https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37741.Tales_of_a_Fourth_Grade_Nothing
One series I read and laughed over was Fudge by Judy Blume, and, conveniently, we have a copy of Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing at home, so I decided to use this hilarious story of a fourth grade boy and his two year old pest of a brother to check off my bingo square.Peter Warren Hatcher is nine and in fourth grade, which is how he introduces himself to everyone he meets.
Lately, I have been lucky while reading children's books through adult eyes, but in this situation, I thought that I may have over analyzed just a smidgen.As an elementary school child, I enjoyed reading Judy Blume's books about Peter Hatcher.
He got all of the awesome, tenured teachers, whose students loved them so much that they still continued to visit them well into their middle and high school years; their classrooms had epic decor themes like "under the sea" or "summer fun."I was a straggler kid, looking in from the outside and always longing for what he had.
He lives in New York City, close to Central Park, he's loving his 4th grade class, has nice friends...except his 2-year-old little brother, Fudge, keeps ruining things.
I love the relationship Peter has with his mom--she's a bit of a sarcastic wit, and I like that.
Prva od 5 knjiga iz serijala o Fadžu... Knjiga za decu ali i roditelji će se ludo zabaviti ako je pročitaju... Jedna od onih ludo zabavnih knjiga koje svako dete treba da pročita... Ovaj serijal je, moglo bi se reći, postao već klasik u Americi, a i šire...
This is the story of fourth grader, Peter, (poor Peter!), who just wishes he'd had the opportunity to remain an only child and not the older brother of younger sibling, Farley, who is beloved and known to all by his pet name of Fudge.Peter and Fudge's struggles as siblings play out in these 10 well-paced chapters, and Judy Blume's famous approachable and concise writing style doesn't fail to deliver.Most hot topics that bother young kids are handled here: Sibling rivalry, assumed favoritism, playground injuries, dastardly annoying school projects on poster boards, and fathers attempting to cook, and ruin, dinner.My 7 and 9 year old daughters were riveted throughout our entire read-aloud of this book and never lost interest nor turned away their heads.
I read this with my 4th grade class every year and I never get tired of it!
I found it funny when I read it at age 10, still funny reading it as an adult to my class, and even funnier now that I have a 3 year old son who could easily double as Fudge Hatcher if they ever made it into a movie.
My 12 year old says it was her favorite book she ever read in elementary school and my 8 year old just experienced Fudge for the first time and can't wait to read the other 4 novels.
Read in the 1970s.Wow--calling it "Fudge #1"--way to reinforce the title sentiment!
Nine-year-old fourth-grader Peter Warren Hatcher is feeling like his life got right fudged up almost three years ago with the arrival of a baby brother his parents named Farley Drexel (family names, maybe?) but these days he's known as a turbocharged toddler called "Fudge." When people first see him they think he's so adorable, but he soon shows them there's way more to him!
Will life with Fudge ever get sweeter, or will it just get crappier?Thanks for reading.
Lovely, cute, adorable, pulling strings of your heart, sweet and innocently joyous!
It's about A nine year old boy Peter and his innocuous jealousy for his toddler brother, Fudgie.
Spinning through cute, little incidents, it takes us through the life and innocent thoughts of Peter.
But the keen observation of Blume and the take on smallest incidents from a kid's POV is too awesome.
I wished few illustrations would have worked wonders.Don't know but recently the childrens books are finding their way to me, all by sheer coincidences and I'm absolutely loving it!
I remember reading this as a kid and loving it. Fudge was crazzzzzyyyyy >_<

A really easy read about Peter, a boy in grade four, and how his younger brother, Fudge, always seems to be up to something to annoy Peter.
Probably my least favorite of Judy Blume’s children’s books so far. I seem to remember enjoying it as a child, but unlike the Ramona and Beezus and Henry books, it has no charm for me as an adult reader. Peter is cursed with an obnoxious little brother who gets all the attention and ruins everything. Originally written in 1972, the substance of the story doesn’t rise above its dated references and gender stereotypes. The only other thing I can say is, poor Dribble. He probably wished Peter didn’t have a little brother, either.

There is a part in the book where Peter (holy shit, how did I do that, I can't remember character names in books I read last week, but here I am pulling out a character name from a book I read a quarter of a century ago), gets mugged and he says that it's what happens in New York, or something like it's scary but everyone gets mugged so it's no big deal.
you know the guy who shot the kids on the subway vigilante style in the 80's.) was in the news a lot, and it just seemed like this fact must be true, and it stuck with me all these years.
When I first read this book as a kid in grammar school I really enjoyed it.
I think I just liked how it went through a kids day.
Funny things happen, siblings cause trouble, and life goes on.
My sons enjoyed reading it in their free time.But as an adult rereading it I didn't enjoy it as much.
I have read so many other children's books that I liked so much more that this book just kind of fell flat.
As a homeschooling mom I won't place it on any literature lists but just as something to be enjoy if the kids choose it.
This book is so fun!Siblings fight, having a turtle as pet, the way little Fudgie's talk and call his brother Pee-tah everything is amusing!Dear Peter, you are a wonderful boy and you must know it!Guessing exact numbers of jelly beans in Mrs Fargo's jar remind me of "Tin Goyenda"! It's exactly the same way Kishore won Rolls Royce car for a whole month!
In my eyes now, Fudge is no more or less troublesome than a typical toddler; whereas as a young reader I empathized with Peter and felt that he was wronged by all those around him, now I like and understand Peter no less, but I also am beginning to understand where the other characters come from, why they act the way they do.
Just simply remarkable, that Judy Blume can write such a book that holds different emotions but equally important meanings for readers of all ages.
I absolutely love Judy Blume books and feel that they really are some of the best books for young readers out there.
This book is the first of many in the Fudge Book series that Blume writes.
Peter has a ridiculous two and a half year old brother named Fudge who never seems to do anything except annoy Peter.
So in some way we can all relate to how Peter fills.This book would be great for older elementary students as well as younger middle school aged children.
However, this book is just as great as I first remember it being back when I was in grade school.
In addition, illustrator Roy Doty does a great job at creating pencil sketches that promote readers understanding of the text.Within the book, brothers Peter and Fudge live in New York with their parents.
However, at the end of the story Peter is given a puppy from his parents- something that Fudge won’t be able to eat!I think this book is perfect to use as a read-aloud within the elementary classroom as I believe students will really love the humor within the book.
In addition, this book is great to promote discussion of how students can positively deal with sibling rivalry.
This is a really good book by Judy Blume, called Tales of a Forth Grade Nothing.
At first Peter gets a turtle from a friends birthday party.
When he comes how his brother likes the turtle.
Later in the story Peter has to watch over his brother at the park, when Peter isn't looking Fudge climbs on the jungle gym and tries to fly breaking his two front teeth.
But then one day after school when Peter comes home his turtle isn't there.
After Fudge got all this attention Peter feels like a forth grade nothing, since it was his turtle.
When Peter opens it its a new puppy big enough so Fudge can't eat him.
Many fond memories of this, the first book in a series by Judy Blume featuring a fourth grader and his annoying toddler brother. "Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing" was one of those books I voraciously read over and over until the copy that I owned started falling apart. Dog-eared did not begin to describe its condition, and yet I cherished it, taking it with me on just about every road trip or family vacation. I didn't do stuffed animals, really. I carried books instead. Strangely enough, I still do...
Peter Warren Hatcher is a typical nine year-old boy, growing up in the middle of New York City.
Just when it seems things can’t get any worse, Fudge swallows Peter’s beloved pet turtle.
Fudge is rushed to the hospital, and all anyone seems to be worrying about is FUDGE…not Peter OR his poor turtle.
I can say from personal experience as an older sister, I felt the same way as Peter when I was nine years old.
For example, Peter’s mother can’t stand the way his pet turtle smells.
Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing by Judy Blume was one of my favorites as a kid and no less enjoyable as an adult, reading it to my 5-yr-old son.
While reading, I didn't notice, but my husband did, how some of the content might have been better suited for an older child.
Children's books are much more politically correct in today's world, being careful not to offend, and most likely, a child would not be allowed to go to Central Park, much less anywhere else in New York, without an adult.
Once again, Blume nails what it feels like to be a kid.
Fudge is actually a tiny terror in disguise, causing mischief everywhere he goes.My Thoughts: Although I discovered Judy Blume around age 11 I firmly refused to read this series because, well, I was in the fifth grade and couldn't possibly read something that was obviously for someone much younger and less mature.
It was unfortunate because I really missed out on quite a few little gems like this book.What Worked: Told from Peter's point of view the book reads exactly as I'd imagine a 9 year old would tell these tales.
I really enjoyed reading this book because it was funny with wacky and scenes that you can actually imagine in your head.
It's cool when you just see nothing but like a big movie screen in your head.
But over all it was a pretty good book that has alot of thinking and laughing and lots of fun and crazy times.
Im just glad I found a good book without like looking actually for like thirty minutes around the room for one and waste time.
I hope i can read more of Judy Blume's books.
I am sure that I read at least one of the books in the Fudge series by Judy Blume sometime during my childhood.
The title seems very familiar, anyway, and I know that I've read several of Ms. Blume's books throughout my life.
And then she told me that her class read it in school, so she was thrilled that she already knew the story.
The story is a quick read (despite the fact that I put it down for almost two months.) And we are eager to get the next book in the series.
The main character Peter is a 9 year old fourth grade student who is sometimes jealous of his little brother Farley Dexrell or Fudge.
Peter had won a pet turtle at a friends birthday party which he named Dribble and Fudge just had to have him.
Throughout the story Fudge constantly causes trouble for Peter and often times will only do things if Peter had done them first.
I believe this book would be wonderful for children at a younger reading level because many students experience jealousy inside sibling relationships and Blume does an excellent job making it appear normal.
As far as kids books go, this one is way up there.
I think this book was read to me when I was in gradeschool, but I had almost no recollection as I read it through today.
I'm sure he'll enjoy them; I just wish that I could find something funny like this that was on a level that would really challenge him.Some highlights:*When the dad INSISTS that an important company visitor will be more comfortable staying at their apartment rather than a hotel.*When the mom leaves town and dad has to take care of the boys!
Although I never had a younger sibling, I feel like this is an accurate depiction of many of the feelings an older sibling must have about their younger siblings. Some parts had me laughing out loud--which I realize makes me seem childish. Maybe I'm still a fourth-grader at heart...
As good as I remembered it. I always loved the Fudge books!
