https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/796214.The_Robber_Barons
He was writing at a time when the pendulum had swung the other way from where it had been at the turn of the century—after the stock market crash and the Great Depression, moves were being made to ensure that corporations no longer had the freedom they’d once had and there was a trend toward enacting laws in favor of the ordinary worker, using taxation and legislation to slow down the rapid acquisition of personal and corporate fortunes.But Josephson was looking back to the period that began with the Civil War, when there was little in the way of regulation and a number of individuals, often from very humble origins, were able to use their tenacity and shrewdness to build an enormous power base in their own fields, aided by the massive expansion of the United States at that time.
5.0 stars. In my opinion, this is the best book written on the subject of the economic transformation of the U.S. after the Civil War through the early 1900 told through the stories of the rise (and fall) of the giants of capitalism that created the modern U.S. Economy. Included are the stories of Rockefeller, Morgan, Vanderbilt, Carnegie, Harriman, Gould and Frick. I absolutely loved it and highly recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.
Hopelessly biased book about the Robber Barons, who grew rich during the latter half of the 19 century, and introduced concepts such as conspicuous consumption. Some facts, a lot of opinions.
Some of these peoples descendents are currently at the top of the food chain of the criminal globalist network that currently controls the world.
It was funny to see how they would slander anybody who opposed them with the communist (never mind that these uber-capitalists had a huge hand in funding various communist revolutions themselves) slur, which worked well for these types well into the 1970s.
Now the same types throw around terms like racist and terrorist in the same way at anybody that opposes them.

Great book, very well written and researched
They did work hard but this book is careful to emphasize that these were miserable people who couldn't really even enjoy the spoils they work so hard to show off because they were so fearful of losing out (and that did happen as new talented, ruthless players entered the scene).
The basic takeaway from this book is the only control on rich jerks are other rich jerks who want in on the action.
Although this is good overview and history of the new industries post Civil War and the principal movers and shakers, I rated this book at 3 stars because the writing style is difficult to follow (this really is interesting stuff) and there is certainly a bias although understandable.
A well written and comprehensive book on the Barons of Industry from the early 19th century with Cornelius Vanderbilt to the time of Theodore Roosevelt and the busting of the Trusts. Speaks quite a bit about Vanderbilt, Jay Gould, John Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie and J.P. Morgan and their acquisitions. but also goes into others of this age who were smaller in scale, especially out west but still examples of the age. I would recommend this for those interested in the history of this period and of early business.
Josephson deserves credit for making it a book not just about business, but also about men, and their values and approaches to life.
There are fascinating accounts of railroad stocks being bid up (and up, and up!) by struggles for control, only to come crashing suddenly down.
Some readers seem to be perturbed by Josephson's largely negative view of these men, and have called him a Marxist and the like.
Clearly at least some of these men (like Rockefeller, who was a Sunday school teacher) viewed themselves as being hardworking, moral gentlemen who were doing the difficult work of growing the nation's industries, something which they undeniably succeeded in doing.
In this regard, the book is quite factual, though there are other scholars/authors that take issue with some of the details on the portrayal of characters such as Jay Gould (see the book The Mismeasure of a Man).
In this regard, I think the book could have gotten a final star from me if it had attempted to do less, but more with greater exposition and detail.
Though understandably so, I would love to see the same author attempt to hone in on a single event or person and tell the story from that point.As a research piece, I am more than sure this book gets top marks.
Josephson's book is important mainly in proving that the so-called captains of industry were financial pirates who built their empires on the backs of impoverished miners, railroad workers, foundry workers, and countless others.
Even if they later put huge sums of money into philantopic endeavors in a PR effort to clean their reputation, their imprint on the American industry and American experience in general was stupendous.
Josephson could have devoted more space to the union struggle in the time period he looked at but it is still a powerful book, especially in the time of huge bailouts, "too big to fail" corporations, and historic revisionism.
A long labor of love for my book group. I enjoyed the tremendous depths this book plumbed, but disliked the quick gloss of effects to unions, riots, labor disputes, and just the general effect of the emassing of riches on the everyday man. The workers in these factories worked for so little for so long. But this book focused on the stock market, legal aspects, and law changing effects of those hungry for power and money. I am grateful for this time in history for many reasons.
There is a difference between being historian and a writer. This writer should have been the former. So basically nothing has changed, only instead of railroads that were at least building industrial prosperity of the country, we have financial wizards that produce and build nothing except imaginary valuations on computer screen. The world burns faster than ever. Progress, ya know.
best written book on the subject. you really get a sense of the flush times, and leave wanting your own printing press to water your stocks with. by an editor of the downtown little renaissance magazine, BROOM, in the 1910's, so its literary.
Polemical, yet informative. The abuses of capitalism in this period were so great that you really weep with joy when TR becomes president.
paperback 6x9
