https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510632.Killing_Mr_Griffin
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 2.5 StarsThis is one of those times where I really wish Goodreads had half stars, because this was a classic case of a perfectly average book. Killing Mr. Griffin went on my TBR simply for the fact that when I Googled “banned books” it was one of the first I hadn’t already read (and that I might want to) that popped up. I have to admit, if I were a teacher and saw a kid reading a title like this, I might want to disappear all the copi
Killing Mr. Griffin went on my TBR simply for the fact that when I Googled “banned books” it was one of the first I hadn’t already read (and that I might want to) that popped up.
You can’t make the occasional edit by throwing in references to things like DVDs and cell phones, without eliminating all of the left-in blasts from the past like girls getting phone calls on the family LANDLINE or riding around in cars with bench seats .
This short, older YA book packed quite a wallop of emotion.
Although I am already familiar with Duncan's talented writing, I was still surprised how sad and tragic this book came across.
It gives an interesting perspective for that special teacher who pushes kids too hard and doesn't listen to excuses.
Disturbing stuff.This short book really packs a punch, as I have said, of emotion on so many levels.
Really cool nice superb awesome twist.
Not, I assume, The Newlywed Game or Let’s Make a Deal.The more I read, the more I realized that this story was taking place in the 70’s, so I looked at the date in the front of the book and saw that it was originally published in 1978.
That would be fine if the story was supposed to be taking place in the 70’s, but the author seems to have gone back in and added modern details like references to Google and cell phones.
As a middle school teacher, I have a really good idea of what students sound like – and this isn’t it.
Students have a nasty teacher (well they think he is) and one day after they all get bad grades, someone makes the chance remark, "That Griffin guy is the kind you'd like to kill." The leader of the pack, Mark, gets everyone to believe they will just kidnap him, scare him, and Mr Griffin will become a NICE teacher when he sees what it is like ont he receiving end.
Never once does he think to alert the police, he just keeps on coming up with more and more schemes to hide the crime.
About halfway through, I tried to piece together the message of this book, and all I could decide on was: don't follow sociopaths that think it's neat to set cats on fire; shit will only escalate from there.Our cast of characters:Sue - our wallflower heroine, dull as dirt and socially isolated to an unrealistic degree.
Remember that episode of Buffy, when Clea Duval turned invisible because her classmates ignored her?
That's Sue without any of Clea's charm.David - class president, raised by his mother and invalidish grandmother after his father abandoned the family when he was a child.
As a future high school English teacher I found this book a little disturbing.
Five high school students who are tired of being jerked around by their English teacher, Mr. Griffin, plan to kidnap him.
Their plan is to kidnap and humiliate the teacher.
They try to cover up their crime, but they didn't bargain for Mrs. Griffin, that won't let the inconsistancies in their story rest.
They are quickly found out as their story unravels, but not before another death and attempted murder on one of their own in order to keep the crime hiddent.
This makes the book a little cheesy at times.
I was thinking about reading this book with my classes during the upcoming six weeks. After reading it, I'm surprised that my school purchased a class set of it. Perhaps, eighth graders could handle it -- but, I know my little sixth graders could not. Multiple instances of cursing, the use of illicit substances and the fact that the entire book is about covering up a murder is a bit much. I'd also feel a knife going into my chest with every Hamlet reference that went completely over my students' heads.Good book, otherwise. Just not good for my current purposes.
Because once the story comes to a finish, readers will put it down, rewind everything in their heads, and let out a nice, long, "Ohhhh." But while the details are the muscle of the book, they're also the weakness.
Duncan tells the story so intricately that it seems a bit formulaic at times, sounding as if everything that happened was completely planned out.
I do wish she had tied things up a little more, but overall, I am highly satisfied with this book, and I will definitely explore more of Lois Duncan's works.
The story is about five high school students who plan to scare their English teacher by kidnapping him, to get even for his strict grading.
The difficult characterization of the victim is handled perfectly; you can easily believe he's a good man, undeserving of his fate, and at the same time see how the students could hate him.If there's any imperfection in this book, to me, it's the relatively abrupt ending and brief denouement.
This book is especially good for teenagers who think they have problem teachers, and would like an answer to some questions about how teachers really think.Book Details: Title Killing Mr. GriffinAuthor Lois DuncanReviewed By Purplycookie
Instantly recognizing this paper, Mr. Griffin checked the college archives and then failed Mark and humiliated him in front of his class, making him beg to be allowed to take the course again.Later, in the company of his wife Kathy, Mr. Griffin admits that he gave up a chance at tenure at the college, deciding to return to high school to teach students to write.
While Mr. Griffin earned a Ph.D at University and became an assistant professor in the state college, Kathryn was a C student in high school and had later worked as a clerk in a department store.The group of friends includes Mark Kinney, David Ruggles (president of the high school's senior class), Jeff Garrett (a basketball player) and Betsy Cline (the head cheerleader).
Killing Mr. Griffin by Lois Duncan★★★★1/2From The Book:They only meant to scare him.Mr. Griffin is the strictest teacher at Del Norte High, with a penchant for endless projects and humiliating his students.
Even straight-A student Susan can't believe how mean he is to the charismatic Mark Kinney.
In spite of someone thinking that it should be banned...it was one of the best books I've read this year.
So a group of students decide to try and change things but the plan was a disaster waiting to happen from the start.
They needed a decoy so they enlist the class geek Susan because she just wants to be liked.
This book is called "Killing Mr. Griffin" by Lois Duncan.
The book is about this teenage boy called Mark Kinney.
Sue agreed to the part of the plan of having the meeting with Mr. Griffin but she didn´t want to be part of taking him to the hills so she went home early.
Like Sue went home early, she didn´t know that they were going to leave Mr. Griffin on the hills 7 hours.
When you read the first page, you want to read the whole book.
This was one of the greatest book I have ever read in my life!
The book I read was a little easier and the reason I chose it was because intricate plots and twisting action throughout most books can lose me and have me just staring at the page.
The main action was during the middle of the book and the plot was easily understood, (especially for a terrible reader), but despite its clarity and its extricating plot the author should’ve stretched it out further towards the end.
This was sort of a problem because the main plot was about Mr. Griffin who in the end was sort of disappearing in my eyes as the reader and the story board switched mainly to Mark.
Killing Mr. Griffin was one of the first books that came to mind so here we begin.Reading this as a teenager is quite a different experience reading it as an adult.
That goes without saying but oh man.
That being said I know there are re-issued ones where they have been touched up to be more current and I'm not sure if that would be weirder reading.Anyway, in this book a group of kids decide they need to scare their english teacher because he's strict, and awful, and terrible, by kidnapping him.
This of course goes horribly wrong.
The emotion is real enough without being melodramatic even in this book.All in all, it was a good visit.
I'm hoping visits to any others are just as good.
This group of kids (Mark, Susan, Betsy, David, and Jeff) want to kidnap their teacher to scare him because they don't like him because he is too strict.
He went to David house and got the ring.
The title relates to the book because the group killed Mr.Griffin maybe not on purpose but they did it.The theme can be seen when Susan had an interview with the cops and Mark told her what to say but she didn't want to say it but it was the best choice at that point because she didn't know what else to say.
I was surprised when Mark was going to set the house on fire to kill Susan so she wouldn't tell.
They took at least two chapters just planning how they were going to kidnap Mr. Griffin.
The main characters of the book are Susan, David, Mark, Jeff, and Betsy.
Mark also kills David's grandmother and almost kills Sue. Jeff is the star basketball player who just goes along with everything he is told to do.
David wears a windbreaker and Mark wears a sweater, those clothes were kind of popular back then.
For example, in the book they thought kidnapping Mr. Griffin would be harmless and that they would get away with it.
(view spoiler)[ Yesterday when I was reading the book after I finished for that time, I said, "I think he's a psychopath." Like a joke, or an exaggeration or something, but that's literally what I said, and thought, really, even if I thought it may not be exactly that.
I predicted it yesterday!" It was so exciting, and I was WAY more invested in this book than I expected.
I guess my main point is that I would never have expected to have liked this book so much, have been this invested, but so happy to be right at the same time as being horrified at what was happening...
It starts out with five kids planning to kidnap their strict English teacher.
When two of the kids go back, they find Mr. Griffin dead.
They bury Mr. Griffin's body, and move his car to the airport.
Eventually, the police discover Mr. Griffin's body, and the search for his killer begins.
When some of the kids are moving Mr. Griffin's newly painted car to a hiding place, they stop at Susan's house.
One interesting thing about this book was that it switched between a lot of characters' points of view.
Since I liked this book, I will definitely recommend it to other people.
The book Killing Mr. Griffin, is about this group of teenagers plotting revenge on their English Literature teacher named Brian Griffin.
They wanted to pull a prank on Mr. Griffin is that he could get the taste of his own medicine.
I think that Lois's sense of writing is a little confusing because the narration is formated in the form of 3rd person perspective.
Which makes me think that some stranger is telling the story than a student in the book telling the story.
I also like how Lois transitions settings to the student's and teacher's personal life, and whats their side of the story.
Five teens decide to kidnap their overdemanding, taskmaster English teacher so that he gets a taste of the anger he inspires in his students (who are unappreciative of the fact that Griffin, in his own rough way, really just wants them to be prepared for college).
But new complications keep arising, and the group unity is falling apart--leading to murder of a more deliberate kind.Unfortunately, the novel doesn't use its strong premise to go beyond being mediocre, plot-driven suspense.
The novel hasn't aged particularly well, either.If one doesn't expect much from Killing Mr. Griffin other than a quick read and quickened pulse, then one won't be disappointed.
What can happen when the only thing a group of high schoolers have in common is hating their English teacher?
I couldn't believe that high school students could really let their emotions control them so much that they end up killing their teacher.
I started reading this book when I was younger and I don't recommend it.
I had to come back and read it again because I couldn't get the story out of my head for so long.
I only recommend older young adults and adults read the book.Number of pages: 222Copyright: 1978
I was struck by the final scene in the book and the elegant way she conveys the devastation of story's events on the main character without overdramatzing or spelling it out.
I read on Amazon that Lois Duncan is in the process of updating her books to be set in the present day, for paperback re-release.
I'd be curious to read the new version alongside this one.
I remember thinking as I was reading this how 1970s-innocent it was and how different the story would be if the characters had cell phones.
Not bad for my first Lois Duncan. However, I think the ending and the reason behind why a certain character acted the way he did is a tad too rushed for my taste. The author's writing is simple and characters are fleshed out splendidly.
Classic Lois Duncan; grim, dark, ambiguous characters.
This book is a very “goodread” and I recommend it to older audiences (14+) for some parts like how Mr. Griffin dies of starvation and how Mark, Betsy, David, and Jeff kidnap Griffin and starve him and deny him medication while he is tied up.
It has all these elements to it that really pull a reader in: cliffhangers, exciting storyline, great use of slowly revealing details.
If the story hinges on the kidnapping of the main character, I think that being sure the reader cares and has sympathy for the protagonist is important.
This is an excellent story.
This premise is so simple, the story is so simple.
And oops, he's dead, and now they have to try to cover up their crime.
Throwing in a reference to an iPod, or that "old band", The Grateful Dead.
A mother at a friend's house, and that friend gets a call on their LANDLINE TELEPHONE, so the mother whips out her cell phone to call her daughter back.
How does this even work?Cell phones a plenty, except Susan gets phone calls on her landline, and has to look up a phone number in a directory.
Plot: Betsy, David, Jeff, Mark, and Susan are students of Mr. Griffin who decide to kidnap their teacher because of his high critique.
At the time of the kidnapping, she is used to distract Griffin while Mark and Jeff incapacitate him.
David does not know his father so it is likely that Mr. Griffin is actually David’s father.Recommendation: This is a good book because it has an interesting concept, a dynamic cast of different people, and a strong usage of imagery to paint a picture in the reader's mind.
A quote from a review by young adult author Richard Peck in the New York Times in 1978 could have been written about "entitled millennials": “But the taboo she tampers with is far more potent and pervasive: the unleashed fury of the permissively reared against any assault on their egos and authority."And unless there is a similar event in another book from the 80's, the incident in the revised edition is written as "the time Mark had set fire to the cat".
But, it highlighted Mark's depravity and inhumanity at a young age (12).
I first read this in middle school, and liked it enough to seek out Lois Duncan's other books.
A handful of kids decide that they need to teach Mr. Griffin a lesson, and then things spiral out of control.
I didn't feel any sympathy with any of the kidnappers, even Sue, who is the most three-dimensional of the bunch.
None of them had compelling reasons for kidnapping Mr. Griffin.
I did feel a lot of sympathy for pregnant Mrs. Griffin, who knows that her husband didn't just disappear and leave her.
So overall, not a particularly memorable read for me.
