https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80349.Meet_the_Austins
Having read and yes, enjoyed, the former as a separate and independently published short work of fiction a few years ago, I am happy that it is now being included within the novel itself (and kind of flabbergasted that Madeleine l'Engle was originally asked to remove this chapter, but considering the time period, and some of the issues presented, such as the fighting John and Maggy engage in and that the Austins create an actual club to protest general attitudes of to them unacceptable adult behaviours and attitudes, not all that surprising).
When I read it in elementary school, I found the pace slow and so almost never discovered Madeleine L’Engle.
I reread Meet the Austins only after I fell for Madeleine L’Engle’s other books.
Yet now upon rereading the Austin books, Meet the Austins is by far my favorite because of its rich thematic depth.
The rest of the world almost never discovered Meet the Austins either, given that it was rejected by publishers for two years.
Over the years, I’ve also grown to appreciate how subtly Madeleine L’Engle slipped in positive references to God; something that still remains unusual for a book not published in the religious market.
I still enjoy the story, and all of Madeleine L'Engle's books for that matter, but I think it's probably somewhat dated; kids today might not enjoy it that much, unless they are reading it as a period piece.
It's the story of a family told from the point of view of the 12 year old daughter.
In L'Engle's other children's books these 2 families tend to run into each other and I find it great fun to keep up with them.And this is one time where I think the original cover (that I just uploaded and changed my reivew to this edition) should not have been changed.
Because I probably won't find time to write the thorough review this gem deserves, here are a few quick thoughts:I loved the story. I felt an immediate bond with the characters and was so caught up in the story. I really appreciated how the story dealt with some difficult, real-life subjects while maintaining warmth, heart and humor. I wish I really could meet the Austin family ;-) And go visit Grandpa and his amazing home--I think I'm adding The Stables to my dream-libraries list, especially since it's beside the sea! :->
This is a novel about a family whose members share their experiences with each other, who accept each each member with love, trusting each other enough to not feel the need to hide things.
We could all learn a thing or two from them.I've read other books in the Austin family series before this one; out of order too.
This series would have been a great comfort to me during my own angst-ridden teenage years.As it was, when I did discover A Ring of Endless Light, which was my first L'Engle experience, I clutched at it and held onto it for dear life.

I've never read a L'Engle book I didn't love. Books about happy intact families are rather rare since they aren't inherently dramatic but L'Engle still manages to show the drama, romance, and bravery in everyday living.
Despite my enduring love for Madeleine L'Engle and my obsession with her lesser-known heroine Vicky Austin, for some reason I never quite got to Meet the Austins.
Die-hard L'Engle fans might be interested to know that this book was published a full two years before A Wrinkle in Time, and compared to that seminal book, it does seem very "ordinary" - but it does feature some interesting discussions of vegetarianism (from a kid's eyes), and a little bit of the science and family that will play a bigger part in the lives of the Austins later.
THE SUNDAY FAMILY READWhen Meet the Austins was published in 1960, Madeleine L'Engle was two years away from publishing her break out book A Wrinkle in Time.
Classical music, books (their mother reads to all four every night before bed even though the littlest is four and the oldest in high school.) An uncle who lives in the city is an artist and Mrs Austin's BFF, Elena, is a touring pianist.Into this idyllic scene comes seven-year-old Maggy, who has just been orphaned and has no where to go.

We really enjoyed this story.
The title is apt because you did feel you were meeting and getting to know this family.
We loved the detail of day to day life and relationships, the laughs and the squabbles and ups and downs of family life.
We enjoyed looking into their life, the picnics on mountains and stargazing.
We particularly liked the visit to their grandfather's, his house and location sound perfect, and what better use for disused horse stalls !
I started to look at a family tree at the end of the book but quickly stopped as I think this gives some spoilers !
L'Engle's novels, especially her Austin cannon, make it very difficult on the reader to leave behind the world in which strong connections and indelible memories have been made.
Usually, when I've finished a book, I'll just sit there and let myself feel warm and full and contented, and maybe just a little sad it's over.
I don't think a cooler family ever existed.
For those contemplating whether or not they'll enjoy this book, let me share a few thoughts.
The sense of wonder those books awakened served as my gateway to the realms of science fiction and fantasy.
In any case, she was a "favorite author" and A Wrinkle in Time was the best book ever.
I've re-read some favorites, and tried to "catch up" on others that I remember but didn't read at the time.
But the family does their best to cope with her and everyone eventually learns to love and respect one another.
But the writing has intelligence and charm and that kept me reading.And then there's the religion.
Meet the Austins by Madeleine L'Engle is an episodic type book about events in the lives of the Austin family.
The child turns out to be a difficult spoiled brat and it takes the family a long time to adjust to her living with them.
I found a lot of similarities between the family in this book and the family in the author's other book, A Wrinkle in Time.
I can overlook most of the similarities, but I found the name thing a bit annoying and feel it shouldn't have been too difficult for the author to come up with more original character names.
You know, I remembered absolutely nothing about this book.
I actually remembered nothing, to the extent that it was almost like reading it again.This one has never been one of my favourites though.
Favourite part.Also, in an interview in the back of this edition of this book, Madeleine L'Engle says she's always loved L.M. Montgomery and Emily of New Moon, which makes perfect sense, now that I think about it.
Which makes me want to learn where it is in the night sky now.Basically, very much enjoy this, as I enjoy all of the Austin books, and the Austin family, but not a standout for me.
Surprisingly unlike Madeleine L'Engle's more famous and fantastical works, such as "A Wrinkle in Time," Meet the Austins is a mystery centered around a family so loving yet vulnerable as to be almost Von Trapp-like.
L'Engle's prose has to it a classic feel, and each character is introduced sporadically, so as the reader is unsure who is most seriously embroiled in the mystery.Set in New York, this rather naive family find themselves caught in what appears to be some kind of conspiracy with the church.
This was quite the cozy book with adorably sweet family relationships.
(John was such a great older brother to Vicky!) I especially loved Rob, and I think I want the Grandfather's house.
evolution.Best quote: "Grandfather has what Mother says is his only great vice: He cannot pass a bookstore.
She says it's like someone who can't pass a bar without going in for a drink.
Grandfather cannot pass a bookstore without going in and buying a book.
He's not a bibliophile, he's a bibliomaniac."Altogether I found this to be a great cozy book perfect for lovers of close-knit families.
This was an off-the-cuff re-read.
I was in the Children's area of the library with my kids, who had become absorbed in their own books, and I suddenly had an itch for Madeleine L'Engle.
I didn't recall reading it when I was young, but I must have, because as soon as I got into it, I realized passages of it had stayed in my subconscious.
I think I may finish the series--and I'll definitely recommend this one to my kids when they are a little older.

The Austins manage in this, the first book featuring them, to be real, idealistic, and lovable all at once.
None of them are perfect, but overall they represents exactly what I long for most - a family of loving, thinking, laughing individuals.
I can never read a dinnertime scene without fiercely wishing for that in my own house.If you are looking for an exciting story, this isn't it.
If you are looking for a story that seems simple on the surface, yet simmers with quiet joy underneath, that stays with you for a long time after reading, look no further.
Meet the Austins is the book for you.
Treating myself to a year of rereading Madeline L'Engle. Bought the rest of the Austin books with some of the amazon gift card that I got from my friends at the Union Library when I retired and am going to read through the five of them first. Rounding out my collection as I go. Probably alternating fiction and non fiction, juvenile and adult books. I love her style and the reality of living with a family that you sometimes love until it hurts and sometimes can't stand to be around. Filled with music, art and books and love nature.
Would you be upset with me if I told you that I didn't really understand all the buzz about A Wrinkle In Time? I might just need to try it again, but I finished that book feeling kind of 'Meh'. Meet the Austins was completely different for me. I loved it, through and through. It's a gentle, sweet, real family story. L'Engle's descriptions made me feel like I knew this family personally. It's a very character-driven plot. Slow-moving in a perfectly lovely way. I can't wait to move on to the other books in the series.
*********However, Grandfather is wrong about Einstein, who did NOT believe in God. This bothers me a bit about L'Engle; she also explains tesseracts incorrectly in "A Wrinkle in Time." Einstein's religious beliefs were complicated, and it's consequently it's easy to misunderstand them.
Through the reading of popular scientific books I soon reached the conviction that much in the stories of the Bible could not be true.
It is quite clear to me that the religious paradise of youth, which was thus lost, was a first attempt to free myself from the chains of the 'merely personal,' from an existence dominated by wishes, hopes, and primitive feelings.
Otherwise, I thought she made an interesting addition, and I fully understood why she became a part of the family by the end.I also really enjoyed how Madeline L'Engle uses the story of Charlotte's Web, a book that I loved as a child (as well as the movie), as a means of talking about the instinctive compassion that young children, in this case Suzy, have for animals.
I know that it wouldn't have bothered me as a young person because, although I didn't go to church regularly on Sundays, I was raised with a christian belief system and had other religious activities in my life, though not as demonstrative as the Austin family is.
The girls and I read this aloud a few years ago but Adeleine asked for it again as she couldn't remember it, and as we'd just enjoyed our fourth annual Christmas reading of The Twenty-Four Days Before Christmas (a prequel to this book).
I notice new things each time I open this beloved friend of a book.
But then as a new mother I saw them with a pang of realization, after reading through almost all of Madeleine L'Engle's nonfiction (and feeling grandmothered within it) and reading, also, her family's responses after her passing.
Would this book taste as sawdust this time around?
Preachier than the Murry books, by about a mile.
There's a passage about Einstein and his religious belief or lack thereof that made me laugh out loud.
It was not intended to be funny, I don't think.
There's more overt Christianity in this book than I remembered.The Austin parents are idealized and improbable.
The story is dating in odd ways- what with the lack of seat belts and the phone ringing in the house all night- that set it off as a period piece rather than a timeless story.Still, it's a warm and wonderful visit to a vanished time.
3.5 stars.

The Austins are a typical L'Engle family, similar to the Murrays (Wrinkle In Time series). ML depicts a wholesome family that reflects much of what was positive about relationships in the 1950s. I've enjoyed some of the other titles in this series, so it was about time I read the first book so I could officially "Meet the Austins."
Eh. I go all bonkers for kids books usually, and I am going to keep reading this series, but jeez, Madeleine! This book is like 90% telling! Duh, didn't you take Creative Writing where they teach you to SHOW?
When an author who has made a significant impact on my life dies, I always leave one of their works unread.
As an adult, I continued to read everything she published, even though I disliked very much "A House Like a Lotus" and I became steadily more atheistic as she became more Christian.
I had the pleasure of meeting L'Engle when she keynoted a rather odd conference at American University (there were a number of adults inexplicably dressed as wizards).Anyway, if I were forced to pick the author who has influenced me the most over decades of my life, she is Madeleine L'Engle.
