https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7165300-the-black-prism
In any world (even a sexist one!), there would be at least one person who feels differently.It's too convenient to excuse it by saying it's "fiction" so yes I will call it out when I see it.Plenty of authors are able to write well rounded characters from any gender.
No one forced him to tell us about how physically attractive each female character was or if their breasts and nipples were satisfying enough.A simple line with a female character rolling her eyes at a male character for being sexist would have been enough to make me not mention any of this.Instead we have a main "strong" female character who spends a whole battle in a revealing dress that oh so inconveniently split open at the thigh and is apparently still hung up on a man she hasn't been with in over 15 years!
AMAZING
It may turn out he doesn't have one."The Black Prism is absolutely a work of art.
If i had to explain what "Epic Fantasy" means, The Black Prism would be my example.
Worth mentioning is the juggling of several compelling and intertwining POVs with a straightforward prose, while the subaqueous qualities of the facture contextualize not only the characters but the society's structure as well.
If you call yourself a fantasy fan, The Black Prism should be the next book in your TBR list.You can find more of my reviews over at http://BookNest.eu/
"So what's wrong with it?" You may ask, other than the fact that the narrator made the main character sound like a surfer dude.Well the problem with Brent Weeks' writing is that you feel like you are being told a story by a very creative and imaginative 15 year old boy, with no real life experience and not a lot of study under his belt.
The cuss words thrown in at the most awkward places, just to sound cool, the use of teen slang, the way things are described with the focus on the most random things under the situation, for example the focus on womens' breasts in the middle of a battle scene and the way the characters think and act are all exactly how a 15 year old boy would describe it.
Before I start with my quite lengthy spoiler-free review, I would like to thank 2 of my fellow Goodreads friend, Sarah (Luna) and Haifoun, for letting me know first to prepare for the extremely slow beginning and that eventually the book will get so much better after the first half.Let me start my review with the con first.Dear Orholam (God in this book), for those of you who's going to start this series, let me remind you once again, the first 200 pages of this book is extremely slow and honestly imo Brent Weeks didn't do a great job of explaining how the magic systems really worked throughout the beginning.
I do have the other current books but I don't know if I'm going to continue.
I figure if I'm only liking something or feel like I'm not going to read it again then I'm getting rid of it and keeping what I love and getting multiple copies of the different books covers.
You know I might feel I need to continue on with this series and see where it goes with Kip and other people in the books.
End Of Side NoteI know that had nothing to do with the book review as a whole but it's just something I needed to say because maybe I would have liked this book more at a different time.
Today we're going to talk about something that every reviewer lives at least once in its reading career, that I will call the Is It Too Early To Dnf Syndrome®.That syndrome sucks big time.
Sanderson's fans might not show this symptom though : if you like long ass descriptions of how a magic system works, well lucky you, you may not meet boredom (yet).
3) Because being a moron is not enough, you'll also know this appalling sociopathic moment, that we'll call the Can You Just Die I don't Care symptom.
This is a book that I would highly recommend due to its commitment to the pace and knowledge of further books to come. The Black Prism ends on a cliffhanger that sets up the next book quite well. I definitely look forward to returning to the colorful (so clever) world that Brent Weeks has created. The writing is good, the characters engaging and realistic, and the way magic is used is not only unique in its utilitarian application but also the variety of ways in which it is utilized.
I'm sure you've heard all about how 'light' forms the basis of magic, and it is one of the concepts that sets this book apart.
Some users on the other team are giving madness a shot, one of the more interesting plot lines in the book.What I did discover is that Weeks can write an engrossing story when he stops jumping around different characters, ala Night Angel, and gets to the business of writing.
Someday, I'll have an Epic need, and I'll surely pick up the second.
If you are in the mood for a great and creative magic system in a very well thought out fantasy world that is so thoroughly steeped in action, melodrama, action, crazy mind-blowing characters, action, and color, then pick this damn book up immediately and thank your lucky stars you did.
It's different from most fantasy novels, although it may not seem so from these words; in that it allows magic to be big, heroes to be big, and then let them be bigger and more complex and even downright evil while being good at the core at the same time.
This book gets all the stars in the universe !WHAT THE FUCK DID I JUST READ[image error]It's hard to write a review when you have just been blown away.
This is exactly what you get from this book, the battles go on for chapters and are very descriptive (which is super important to me) Brent weeks also doesn't go easy on the details so if blood and guts isn't your thing, STAY AWAY !This is definitely a 5 star book for me and has made it into my top three best books ever, you know your reading a great book when you can't stop crying because you don't want it to end :')Seriously put whatever your reading down and read this now!!!
The Black Prism is the first book in the Lightbringer series, an epic fantasy series with a color-based magic system.
There was a truly varied and interesting cast of characters: Kip, a chubby, awkward teenager who has always been a bit of an outcast; Gavin Guile, the Prism and the Most Interesting Man in the World; and Karris, Gavin’s smoking hot bodyguard with mad skills and a bruised heart.
When I first started reading, the magic seemed kind of cheesy to me, to be honest.
I think that Heaven might look a bit like Big Jasper.All in all, this was a fantastic read.
I'm not intrigued, drawn in, excited, or even really interested.
There is magic afoot, but it is hard to be in awe of it.
Gavin Guile is the most interesting, but not enough to really carry the story.
Carrying a torch for a powerful man for 15 years and still being so angry about it is ridiculous, childish, and irritating.Lots of people have talked about the book's magic system.
I can almost get it, especially as Weeks spends a lot of time trying to explain it.
But manipulating light with will in order to manifest it in the physical word is a huge stretch.
The Black Prism had me thinking and feeling to such extremes that medication was called for; valium, lithium, and aspirin in turn.I had a love/hate, bipolar friendship with so many characters in this book that I would have finished it out of self defense even if it had been 1800+ pages.
;)**On a side note:I took some time and read a few of the reviews by others and I am really, Really, REALLY sick of everyone comparing this book to Weeks' Night Angel Trilogy!
If you liked Night Angel so much, read that again.
I have to admit I wasn't really hooked by the characters as much as I would have liked, but overall I ADMIRE what the author is setting up.
I guess my biggest beef, other than really not liking the kid lead, was that the magic system was super confusing at first, and I had to really work at figuring out what was going on and how to visualize the mechanics, which is weird because a magic system based on COLOR seems to be one that should be most easy to visualize.I appreciate the way the author was trying to avoid the cliches and walk in the "grey" area of the fantasy genre, which is very popular right now, but I dunno if that might be the reason I didn't glom onto rooting for a character as much as I usually do.
Let us move on.The book starts out well jumping into the story and laying a bit ground work we will need for the "plot devices" and the magical system.
So...the Prism is Dazen, but everyone thinks he's Gavin...got that?Now the war was fought partially or maybe mostly over a woman...who is apparently extremely beautiful as not only the two brothers who fought the war fell in love with her...but so did the false king we meet later...who is rebelling against the Prism...who's not supposed to be the Prism...Oh, and of course that means that Kip who just found out the Prism is his father is really the nephew of the man he's calling father...There are other plot points like the Prism being forced by circumstances to kill most of the woman he loves family (I don't recall any of them being named Tybalt...but I won't swear to it)...Get the picture?
I actually liked how damaged he is, because usually we read about these protagonists who had a horrible upbringing but have this stellar generic personality with absolutely no scratches whatsoever..Not Kip no, and it was awesome reading about his journey fighting his demons.We also have three minor POVs:Karris: I just love her sections, typical independent ass-kicking woman in her thirties who takes shit from no one and least of all from Gavin.
In conclusion, amazing characters, unique world and magical system, hilarious conversations, heart-wrenching scenes, mystery, secrets, intrigue, dark pasts, slow start but absolutely totally WORTH IT!
I didn’t like the way the author explains the magic system, when you’re reading a very interesting part of the book and one of the characters starts drafting(i.e the magic), the author will stop the dialogue and start explaining the magic, that was done throughout the book, I still don’t know the limits of the magic.
The book is written in third person multiple POVs of very interesting characters, its comprehensible with amazing dialogues.CharactersThe Guile brothers: Gavin Guile is the emperor and priest of the seven Satraps, he is also a Prism, he had ruled for 16 years so far and is almost at the end of his reign.
Only one person has the ability to draft every colour – The Prism.Having recently read Sanderson’s Mistborn, the comparison of the two magic systems seems inevitable given that there are some striking similarities between Chromaturgy and Allomancy.
The major plot element involving Gavin and Dazen also has parallels to the Biblical story of (view spoiler)[Jacob and Esau.
As the story unfolds we learn the history of the Seven Satrapies, the politics and intrigue of the court, and a dark secret kept for sixteen years by the reigning Prism.
At this time The Prism is Gavin Guile and he can draft all the Colors in the rainbow.
Those who have been born with the ability to take in the light of any color and pull it into their body cells, then learn how to shape the byproduct, luxin, into some useful form, those are the Drafters, the magicians of their world.
Each generation there is only one Prism born, the person who brings balance to the Color-system Magic and the defacto Pope and Emperor...
Yes, Kip is the typical young man of the Classical Fantasy Genre, on his requisite journey to discover himself and fight to be as good as he can be, while fighting temptation and the darkness within.
I don't want to go into too much detail about the magic system, cause one of the fun things of the book is to learn that system during the novel.In addition to the male main heroes Kip and Gavin, Weeks gives us two female heroines as well, but they are less prominent characters.Karris White Oak is one of the Blackguard, an elite force of bodyguards charged with protecting the Prism.
This was good. In fact it was very good. The magic system was brilliant. So imaginative and holding boundless opportunities. I struggled just a little with the characters - the deliberate confusion over who is who actually confused me too much. I needed to know who was the good guy and who I should be rooting for. I am just going to have to read the next book to find out!The story was action packed and fast paced and very hard to put down. A great read!
BB&B reread time with Sarah & Choko. Good times!
I would have loved to get a better understanding on how this light magic stuff happens but all we get is those little snippets that are really not helpful in really getting me to get a real understanding.
there was also the little fact that about half or more of the book felt like nothing was happening.
I would have also loved to get more plot dedicated to the history, it would have helped with a lot of things: the laps of plot throughout the story, it might have given a better explanation on how the world and the magic works...
I usually don't care but merely stating it, as I think it caused a few problems in the book(Like not carring for characters and having a different reaction than what Brent hoped).It takes 40% of the book to get intersting, and everyone who has read it knows what I am talking about.
And yet, I felt really dissapointed, as the twist plot wasn't made good as it could be.(Not enough foreshadowing, Brent's writing)But its really was on the 80% that I started to care for the characters and got "hooked" to the story.
And has a very unique magic system that continues to amaze you the farther you get into the books.
The world building in this book is fantastic.
Drafts (magic) light like a warrior goddess and is extremely fast.
She does things I can agree with and then changes her mind like nothing??
He is my favorite of the book for sure.
It is an amazing world he created.I never thought I would ever read a book like this and I am so happy I decided to pick this up.
And have yet to wait until October for the last book.
Nice Natalie is knitting booties in preparations for Christmas, and Cynical Natalie is stockpiling coal as projectiles)✨Kip reminds me of Samwell Tarly, if Sam had a penchant for bad jokes at inopportune moments ✨”Locke opened his mouth to say something ill-advised” from Scott Lynch’s The Lies of Locke Lamora is Kip in a single sentence ✨The magic system is cool and complex and too much for my overworked brain to handle atm✨The Prism is the Avatar.
Why does Liv need to comment on some bitchy classmate’s cleavage ✨Do men just look at their beloved and think how beautiful she is, for the 1000th time, even when there’s a war going on?
Liv is beautiful.
I've never read anything by Weeks before & was pretty impressed.
His system of magic was interesting, albeit somewhat confusing at times.
Still, that was minor.Weeks really impressed me with the realistic aspects of the story.
Even better were the bits of reality that made the characters & story pop for me.
There were many such scenes & plenty of great action, too.The first book ends well, although there is obviously a lot more story to tell.
I'll look forward to reading the rest of the series as it comes out.
I didn't love or hate anyone so the whole story felt like it was happening at a distance, something I was objectively observing rather than personally experiencing, if that makes any sense.
The mark of a four or five star book for me is how necessary reading the next book is to me and, right now, I'm not feeling any pressing need to see what happens next.
I was starting to feel story fatigue with about 150-200 pages left to go, my mind already on what I might read next as opposed to what was happening on these pages.
How I hate cliffhangers... (view spoiler)[ PLEASE DON'T KILL MY BABY DAZEN :( (hide spoiler)]This book was epic. I was scared of its size but I ended up enjoying every pages.It was a bit hard to understand the magic system and I still don't comprehend it fully. But I find it really interesting nonetheless!I'm getting really attached to the characters and I can't wait to continue on with this series.
