https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80491.The_Pool_of_Fire
این کتاب در زیر سبک پسارستاخیزی داستان جامعه‌ ای را روایت می‌کند که توسط ماشین‌هایی غول پیکر به نام سه‌ پایه‌ ها استثمار و به شکلی شبیه به قرون وسطی اداره می‌شود.
شخصیت‌های اصلی داستان: ویل، هنری و بینپل که هر سه نوجوانانی بدون کلاهک هستند به علت احساس شک و دوگانگی که در میان همسالانشان فراوان است، تصمیم می‌گیرند از کلاهک گذاری فرار کرده و راهی برای شناخت و مبارزه با سه‌ پایه‌ ها پیدا کنند.
Not only are no significant characters female, but there hardly even seem to be women in the towns they pass through.
In the first book, a story of three boys escaping through the wilderness to freedom, it wasn't a big deal that they didn't meet or think about women, but when they're out recruiting dissidents -- and they explicitly don't recruit women, wtf is up with that?!
But I guess it would be a crappy ending if the aliens won.
Enjoy some hunting and fishing while you have the chance, and avoid women and other aliens.
Checked this one off the other day as read, but never got around to a review.
I've read a lot of discussion lately on protecting children from books, and I look back at books like this and I'm so glad I read them.
This was a child friendly dystopia.
And, in child-friendly fashion, there is a bit of a happy ending.
Although, like all good stories, the end is only the beginning of the next story (unwritten).
They freed the earth, but had to go back and find a way to reunite humanity in peace, as they were in war.X-posted reviews of the full trilogy in LJ.
I don't think this book even mentions the existence of any females at all except once (and that was remembering someone who died).
In this final installment, we get the inevitable conclusion made necessary by the previous book.
What I really like about these books is how far from perfect the protagonist is.
It's a very attractive perspective to read, inundated as we are in more recently written books by near-perfect protagonists who always find a way to win the contest, save the day, be the center of attention.
Christopher wrote this book the year before the first moon landing.
مسئله این بود که بسیاری از کسانی که دوشادوش ما جنگیده و ارباب ها را شکست داده بودند، حالا در همه جا ادعا میکردند که بیش از دیگران حق و حقوق دارند...
"Η Λίμνη της Φωτιάς", εκδόσεις Σίμωσι.Τρίτο και τελευταίο βιβλίο της νεανικής σειράς επιστημονικής φαντασίας "Οι Τρίποδες", που αποτελείται από τρία βασικά βιβλία (αυτά που διάβασα δηλαδή) και ένα πρίκουελ με τον τίτλο "When the Tripods Came", το οποίο μας δείχνει πως οι εξωγήινοι κατέκτησαν την Γη (δυστυχώς το συγκεκριμένο δεν έχει μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά).
Νομίζω ότι η σειρά κλείνει ικανοποιητικά με το τρίτο αυτό βιβλίο.Η ιστορία αρχίζει ακριβώς από το σημείο που τελείωσε η ιστορία του δεύτερου βιβλίου, με τον νεαρό Γουίλ Πάρκερ να γυρίζει στο κρησφύγετο των συμμαχητών του με σημαντικότατες πληροφορίες γύρω από τις πόλεις των εξωγήινων, την λειτουργία τους, τον τρόπο σκέψης τους, τα μειονεκτήματά τους κλπ.
It's an allegorical series about rebellion and freedom; war and peace; and human nature; and it works very well on many levels.Neither book 2 ("The City of Gold and Lead") nor book 3 ("The Pool of Fire") come close to the emotional strength of book 1 ("The White Mountains"), as we see this world through Will's eyes as the wool is slowly pulled away and the Tripods revealed for what they truly are.
However, overall, the series is powerful, the writing is precise, and the world is well-imagined and unafraid to tackle adult themes, though this series is appropriate for young readers.And thanks again to my fifth grade teacher, Mr. Kribbs, for being the first to introduce me to the Tripods and the Capped, as he read the books aloud to our class.
Reviewed by Kira M for TeensReadToo.comAfter discovering the Tripods' plot to destroy mankind, Will rushes back to the White Mountains to tell the other uncapped humans.
What will happen if the Tripods catch on to the humans' plan?This is an adventure filled with action, suspense, and right vs.
The well-developed characters seem to step up to the plate and shine in this book, and the plot is fast-paced.
Readers who like fantasy, science fiction, adventure, and action-filled books will enjoy reading THE POOL OF FIRE.
The third in the White Mountains trilogy, this was the last book I read on the Tripods.
Apparently now there is a fourth, but as far as I knew at the end of this book, the good guys won, and there were no more tripods or aliens.
I will someday go back and read the fourth, but for now, I've read this trilogy many times.
It still holds that nostalgic feeling for me, as I was introduced to the series as a child.
I can't recommend it enough, and hope everyone who has kids keeps this story alive for generations to come.
The last book in the Tripods series. Can the resistance group defeat the Tripods, and free humans from their mental control?
Absolutely fabulous end. I cannot believe it has taken me so long to reread this. I really recommend them.
An amazing dialogue from the human side of a war of men versus aliens.
هرچی خواستم بنویسم، دیدم اسپویل میشه.ولی چه قدر خوب بود. چه قدر نفهمیدم که واقعا دنیا با وجود سه پایه ها بهتر بود یا نه. چه قدر یه فانتزی خالی نبود.:)
هرچی خواستم بنویسم، دیدم اسپویل می‌شه.ولی چه قدر خوب بود. چه قدر نفهمیدم که واقعا دنیا با وجود سه پایه ها بهتر بود یا نه. چه قدر یه فانتزی خالی نبود.:)
Christopher does not shy away from making it clear that the world is in terrible shape and that living as one of the humans (particularly uncapped) would be terrible, but he also doesn't let the book go much darker by dwelling on this aspect of the world.(view spoiler)[One measure of not shying away from darkness is that Christopher seems reasonably willing to kill off his reasonably main characters when necessary.
Essentially, he is the main character of his own story (the one he narrates), but his "supporting players" have much more claim to the lead role.
They are under a deadline however as in the second story it was revealed that a massive ship from the Master's homeworld would arrive in 4 years to begin the process of transforming the earth into a planet suitable for habitation by the Masters and that will result in death to all current life on earth.So what really bugged me by the end of the story was how the earth survivors basically living at a middle ages subsistence level mount a challenge within this time frame.
This story is the one I remember least from reading it as a child, so maybe it didn't make as huge an impression on me as the first two did then either.
Not a single female character in this book, or the second one (except dead ones in a particularly chilling scene), so that was starting to grate on me as I got near the end, a definite weakness of the trilogy.
Maybe they can't remember how to make it work, but the story of those things would still be alive in the world, wouldn't they?
While I can’t say that I was disappointed by this final chapter to the Tripods Trilogy, I have to admit that was just slightly below the first and second books in the series (The White Mountains and The City of Gold and Lead, respectively).
Now, humans are forced to take action and strike down the Masters before it is too late.While I assure readers that Christopher delivers another action packed, adventurous book, it is noted that The Pool of Fire is slightly off pace; it begins to feel episodic, with periods of thrill followed by periods of drag, towards the end.
Sort of feels like the series deserves 3.5 or 4 for achieving its aims so fully but the individual books feel sleight and those aims are arguably too modest.
As Becks said, it's interesting to read sort of proto YA.
Makes me want to revisit the Narnia series too.
Christopher deserves credit for surprisingly good prose.
I'd say the YA-ness shines through in two main ways.
First, the characterizations, while unspooled with obvious skill, are broad and serve a sort of moralistic or instructive function for the (presumably) young reader.
Christopher is clearly intent on getting from point a to point b quickly.
The final chapter of the Tripods trilogy was very well done. I have always been curious as to what happened 50-100 years down the road as Will 'left his seas and islands'. Did mankind make it out to the stars to confront the Masters? Were they able to hold their emotions in check? Christopher leaves open some very future-directed questions to the fate of the characters, but the book itself was wonderful.
The third in the Tripods series, this book tells the story of how the humans eventually overcame the Masters and freed themselves and the earth. A fitting conclusion, just as good as all the rest of the books. It involves a lot of danger and action as always, and the human characters make the story seem believable. This is one of the first every dystopia novels for young adults, and it has set the standard ever since.
I totally loved the 3rd book, read it in one morning! I love the ending... how so very human! I wonder if there is another series after this one, following Will and his friends but at the same time I think it is just perfect where it stopped.
I read this a very long time ago as a teenager and really liked it. I still remember things about the story that make me want to reread it.
I just reread this trilogy after many years and wow it was better than ever! Apparently there is even another book… so I will have to check it out too.
An excellent ending to the series.
This conclusion to "The Tripods" is as exciting as the others in the trilogy and makes the reader wish there was more. A bittersweet ending to a great sci-fi trilogy.
The exciting conclusion of the tripods series. Complete with social commentary on Man.
I wondered if the series would end satisfactorily for me. It did.
Again, I felt that the author tended toward summary rather than scene more than was appropriate, and I was disappointed by the complete lack of female characters, but I thought that the way the Tripods were fought made sense, and the author did a good job of ensuring a realistic rate of failure for the missions (rather than just "these are the good guys so they do unbelievably well.
I thought this ending was pretty realistic and indicative of human nature.
My ratings of books on Goodreads are solely a crude ranking of their utility to me, and not an evaluation of literary merit, entertainment value, social importance, humor, insightfulness, scientific accuracy, creative vigor, suspensefulness of plot, depth of characters, vitality of theme, excitement of climax, satisfaction of ending, or any other combination of dimensions of value which we are expected to boil down through some fabulous alchemy into a single digit.
This book felt really tedious, like cleaning up after the party is over. It feels like the author is just running through a checklist of all the things he needed to tie up, and letting us know what happened.Also I think I figured out how they depopulated the planet. Will's mom must have been the only woman on the continent. I hope they eventually find more women somewhere or the whole revolution thing is gonna be pretty irrelevant.
