https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669305.Seven_Gothic_Tales
Unlike the former though, Dinesen’s sophisticated, poised prose acts like a charm that transfixes the reader through its receding succession of symbolic patterns that defy the classic boundaries of limiting the tales by beginnings and endings.
A tale with the narrative frame of a Chinese box, of stories that sprout from stories, which in turn lead to new stories, there is a playful game of masks, veiled and unveiled, that dance in a sneaky masquerade that is never completely revealed to the baffled reader.
As several of her characters protest to us:  “To have only half is better than having the whole.” This is not a case of the lady doth protest too much- in Dinesen’s world, mystery, ambiguity, uncertainty, masks, deceptions-that-may-not-be, what is not said… these are thne rulers worth serving.
(You might not be able to say the same thing about that monkey, but that’s a whole other story.)Dinesen’s choice of a an early 19th century Gothic setting for this collection seems inevitable.
"The Monkey" is set in the early 1800s in a "Lutheran country of Northern Europe." A young officer, Boris, in trouble with certain ecclesiastics at court for his libertine ways, travels in haste to a cloister run by an aunt to seek her help in getting married.
The story of the sisters' social success, and the tragic fate of the brother, are recollected in a third-person narrative which is largely a recapitulation of Mme. Bæk's exultant, highly colored, romantic memories.
Now in 1840, Mme. Bæk travels by carriage to Copenhagen to report to her ladies that she has seen the long-dead brother, Morten, in the house on several occassions, once staring fixedly at their portraits.
Blixen’s first book of stories Seven Gothic Tales was published in 1934.
The characters of Seven Gothic Tales all seem to be either telling a story (often a memory), or listening to one.
The passage of time is perhaps the most important theme of the book, though it often creates a gulf between the old and the young.
Blixen is acutely aware of time, and plays with it.
Eccentric and beguiling, Seven Gothic Tales may be challenging to some readers.
This collection will most likely appeal to readers who appreciate strange stories, beautifully told.
I have had this book out from the library for several weeks, but every time I open it, the phone rings. I think it is cursed.
These tales are like nothing I have read before.
Isak Dinessen’s – nom de plume of Karen Blixen – narration feels like a walk through a labyrinth, where the unfolding story thread makes sharp turns, leads us into dead ends and dark corners, until finally we emerge on the other side a bit unsure of the place we have been.
There is something primal in Blixen’s story telling that transports the reader back to the shaman beside the fire, or the medieval jongleur in a country fair, or yet the bedtime fairy tales we were read as children.
There’s some advice I heard once that when you have a bad experience such as losing a game, failing to fix a tent door in a thunderstorm, or burning a pie, that you should always look for some positive lesson you learned in the experience.So here are my lessons from finishing Isak Dinesen’s Seven Gothic Tales...1. “Gothic” can mean other things besides dressing up like Robert Smith of The Cure and watching Dracula.2. Never read another Isak Dinesen novel unless I really want to fall asleep quickly.3. Little monkeys are scary.
karen Blixen, una Sherazade, una sirena.Potrei rimanere in un isola deserta con i Suoi libri di racc
Dineson really writes like no one else.. not even her worthy heirs like Angela Carter or Rikki Ducornet..or those she inherited from like Potocki or E.T.A. Hoffmann..simplely some of the most otherwordly and beautiful writing in the world. Words fail me.
Seven Gothic Tales by Isak Dinesen (Karen Blixen) has been a very difficult read for me.
A more straight-forward telling would have been more to my taste, but the central nugget--who the mysterious woman was and what finally happened to her was worth a bit of wading in the "stream."Dinesen is a very descriptive author.
But in the stories mentioned, she does her best job and the descriptions serve the tales well.
She also is at her best when telling the story straight rather than following little side-stories as happens more often than necessary.
Traveling alone in a strange country, as you pass through a dark pine woods, you see an abandoned, half-ruined castle through the trees.
Entering it, and walking through hallways hung with faded crimson and paved with black marble, you catch a glimpse of yourself in a tarnished mirror.
But another face looks back at you, skeletal.
The story has begun.
This is the world of Isak Dinesen (Karen Blixen).
Each of the stories in "Seven Gothic Tales" is a world of magic, where people are not who they seem, masks are worn and removed, and each tale spirals into another and another.
Looking at the other reviews here, I feel like I failed some kind of test. I'm not sure what happened, but when I was reading this I had the attention span of a toddler on ten cans of Red Bull. The writing did nothing, did nothing to draw me in.I just found it very...cold for lack of a better word. I might try again some other time.
The first story is the best. The rest I just could not get into.
Don't be mislead by the title - this isn't simply seven gothic yarns but rather a great coiling mass of tales coiled up upon one another.
Tales within tales within tales within tales - it can be a little dizzying.I suppose that this is a book about reading, writing and story telling - echoes flit between one story and another.
A girl may be observed in a mirror in one story before observing herself in the same mirror in another entirely different tale - out of time and space.
A character may stalk between different narrators and narratives each where they have cast themselves the hero where they are surely walk on parts.
Description: Here are seven exquisite tales combining the keen psychological insight characteristic of the modern short story with the haunting mystery of the nineteenth-century Gothic tale, in the tradition of writers such as Goethe, Hoffmann, and Poe.Read for free here (Hattip Wanda), but because that site wanted my credit card details when no purchase was required I decided to use Open Library.org instead.Later: The Open Library copy has no formatting. Le Sigh. I shall put this title back on the shelvesThe Deluge at NorderneyThe Old ChevalierThe MonkeyThe Roads Round PisaThe Supper at Elsinore etc
Exotic, baroque, fantastic... Dinesen's voice is unmistakable and distinct. Fate plays a major role in these tales. Her prose is eloquent -- these stories stay with the reader for a long, long time.
Or, if you eschew cliche' characters portrayed in easily definable roles; plodding along in predictable circumstances, and enjoy the simple conflicts of a time when Style and Form surpass Substance, and are comfortable with endings that are unconventional, inconvenient, and requiring thoughtful reflection, then these "tales" will both absorb and entertain.
Not my favorite, but still very well written.“The ROADS ROUND PISA” ; "Truth, like time, is an idea arising from and dependent upon, human intercourse."— Another tale of romantic intrigue, obsession with truth, and an unique defining in the roles of men (as guests) and women (as hosts), that is all settled in a quest by a young duke in the early nineteenth-century Italy.
I read the first four stories in Isak Dinesen’s Seven Gothic Tales several years ago.
Seven Gothic Tales, published in 1934 when she was 49 years old, was her first book.
Even more confusingly, her books were published in some countries under the name Isak Dinesen and in other countries under her own name.
They’re just enough to let you know that Dinesen has no interest in the kinds of naturalism or social realism that were approved by literary critics at the time she started writing.
Seven Gothic Tales was a stunning literary debut, and I can’t recommend it too highly.
With all these seven tales, in gothic style, Blixen explores - in gothic style - everything from human nature, fate, love, faith, contemporary society, beauty, mortality, vanitas symbols, womanhood, norms, gender role and simply human roles in general.In an artistic way, she is commenting on society and mankind.
In my opinion it can often seem a tiny bit off putting and pretentious, but all in all, I have to bow down to her talent and wit.This was for me a 3.5 rated reading experience, but since I am a "glass-hall-full" fantastic literature fan, I am keen to rating it a 4.
Any book that feels like it was "worth it in the end" isn't a good read during the actual reading.
This was too layered for my taste: inset stories were everywhere; extraneous details and plots made my head spin; melodrama abounded.
Potentially, these are hall,arks of the era in which Dinesen (Karen Blixen, she of _Out of Africa_ fame) was writing.
Am I glad I read it?
Do I feel accomplished?
That said, if you're looking for some truly Gothic tales with twisty turns bits, this might be your cuppa.
But if you're looking for "Gothic" and you mean "horror," skip it.
Jeg er fuldstændig forelsket i den vidunderlige fortællerinde Blixen. Hendes historier er så fyldt med åbne pladser, så jeg igen og igen kan tolke nye ting ud af dem. Denne samling af fantastiske fortællinger var en litterær oplevelse uden lige. Æstetisk, stemningsmættet - fantastisk! Anbefaler den til alle, der elsker anderledes, åbne værker.
Each tale is like a polished jewel, very gothic and yet very modern at the same time, and much food for thought. 'The Supper at Elsinore' I enjoyed the most. I finished the book late last night, with a bottle of red wine, in front of the fire, in an empty house (S is off on a field trip), before going to bed.
...though people do not like their mother’s virtue to be questioned, the frivolities of grandmothers may be charming things to smile at.
~ from The Poet (one of the seven tales)This is the first work I’ve read by Isak Dinesen – the nom de plume of Danish author Karen Blixen.
She is perhaps best known, outside of Denmark, for her memoir Out of Africa, but as I understand it, she is better known in Denmark for this collection of short stories, Seven Gothic Tales.
The tales are set in Denmark and Western Europe, mid 19th to early 20th centuries.The Seven Tales, as you can probably guess, are of the gothic genre.
Too much damn stuff to fit in any meaningful review. But let it be known that here be Tellers of Tales, many more than the seven it contains, artist-monkeys waiting for cues from their dead masters, pirates with wicked decks of cards, prostitutes of Paris and aristocrats of yore, and it's all bloody marvelous. Somewhere between 1001 Nights, Hawthorne's Tales, and Márquez.
-Pluma destacada, título engañoso y mucho arte.-Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Siete relatos de la autora que, desde premisas conocidas en la novela gótica, ofrecen algo más.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I’m not sure what makes these stories ‘Gothic’.
But, for me, their most noticeable characteristic is the excess of narrative...or maybe the celebration of narrative is how I should put it.
And she was writing at a time when narrative was not fashionable: more happens in 10 pages of a Blixen story than 800 pages of James Joyce.
Her rich, highly literary style and the constant accumulation of outlandish narrative incident always point – at least they do for me – to some sort of symbolic purpose, but I can never find it.
She is very literary, in fact too literary; she tries much too hard to be clever and witty, which made it impossible for me to get past her prose style into the stories themselves.
The stories themselves could have been alright, in fact in the hands of a master short story writer like Guy de Maupassant they would have been stunning, in terms of the characters and the setting and the events, but as already said, she tries too hard to be clever to allow the stories to come through.
The way Isak Dinesen tells her stories is so opaque that I could never forget that a story was being told.
Who has not been charmed and haunted by the opening line of Isak Dinesen’s Out of Africa: “I had a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong hills…”?
That was the only work of Dinesen (the pseudonym of Karen Blixen) that I had previously read, and I was interested to read her earlier work, Seven Gothic Tales, which has long languished on my bookshelf.
The latter is a collection of several long short stories, or short novellas, each with a surprising and even disconcerting twist.
Dinesen is obviously an author of great versatility, and I would like to read more of her work.
I wanted to like this collection a lot, since Winter's Tales made such an impression on me.
The writing was still excellent, yes, though I took great issue with the passage in "The Monkey" where Boris thinks that women hate the sea.
From her writing you can tell that Dinesen loves the sea - why would she write such a passage?
Maybe I will find a reason to reconcile those blasphemous words.
The ending of "The Old Chevalier" was legitimately creepy, when I read it at night; I liked Eliza of "The Supper at Elsinore".
But, for one reason or another, I come away from this book cold.
Difficult book to review.
Well written, smart, labored.
The last one, particularly, "The Poet", I found quite interesting - a somber tale about age, talent, frustration, power.
But the whole set is a sort of anachronistic "Hoffmanesque" effort that sounds quite artificial when one sees it was written way into the 20th century.
It is like composing a Beethoven concerto in 1900 (if anyone thought about Rachmaninoff that was the idea).
The result is good but it does not strike the spirit of the age.
It simply does not sound right.
Anyway, if you like the style, go for it.
