https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32024902-darker
I'm against burning books.People should have access to any book they want. I'm just not sure what people would use this book for? I hope they rip out the pages and blow their noses or wipe their private parts because - to be honest - it's sad to see paper wasted like this, so at least they're putting it to good use in the end.P.S.: Toilet paper has a better plot though AND isn't sexist so if you consider buying this or toilet paper always be safe and choose the latter.
Like many, Fifty Shades Darker is my favorite book in the trilogy.
Because of this, I was nervous about reading this book.
There are certain scenes I needed in Christian's POV, but they had to be done just right to satisfy me.
I loved being in Christian's head, but it did feel a lot like reading the original over again.
I just wish we got a few new scenes from Christian's POV.
Overall, I very much enjoyed listening to the audio book of Darker.
If you enjoy audio books, this is one I would highly recommend!
OMG this gave my fangirl heart all the feels! I can't wait for the movie to come out! ********************************************************OMG Other book from Christian's povI am all over this   NOPE NONE!!!  So   This will be me when I get this book!! lol Can't wait !
➳Christian Grey never gets old, and reading everything from his point of view makes me love him much more... ➳Loved this story! Not much can be said about it since I already knew the story itself, but reading it from his perspective has been an enlighten touch to my adoration and love for this wonderful romance novel. I cannot wait to see the movie and hopefully read FREED in Christian's perspective in the future...➳Thank you so much to Vintage publishing for providing an ARC in exchange for an
➳Christian Grey never gets old, and reading everything from his point of view makes me love him much more...
➳Loved this story! Not much can be said about it since I already knew the story itself, but reading it from his perspective has been an enlighten touch to my adoration and love for this wonderful romance novel. I cannot wait to see the movie and hopefully read FREED in Christian's perspective in the future...➳Thank you so much to Vintage publishing for providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review...➳Follow Me On:Blog ♕ Instagram ♕ Facebook ♕ Twitter
Vemos a los personajes a los que ya les tenemos cierto cariño, y vemos la misma historia que ya conocemos.Las cosas que más agradecí, fue que por fin pudimos ver que paso cuando Leila y Christian se quedan solos, y cuando Christian y su mamá hablan después de que Grace se cachetea a Elena.
La boda de Andrea, los recuerdos de Christian con su abuelito y Mia, las escenas sexuales con Leila y Elena, siempre había querido ver como eran esas relaciones de Amo- sumisa, y aquí vimos un poco de ello.Christian y sus inseguridades, encajan perfectamente con el personaje.
After I read this book and then I read a few reviews about this book,I do not wish to write a review.I just want to point out three things:1.
If you don't like the first book in the series and give a rating of 1 star, you don't have to read the second book in the series.
And if you don't like the second book in the series, you really don't have to read the third book in the series.
If you haven't read the above mentioned books; you seriously do not have to rate them and/or even review them.This series has opened a new world to me.
Christian was too much of a sap and desperate for Ana's affections.
I knew this from the original series but it seemed to be magnified in "DARKER".There were a couple of things I did like.I liked that we got to see what happened to Ros and Christian after Charlie Tango crashed.Also that we got to see how Christian handled Leila after she threatened Ana in her apartment.I will always love the FSOG series and Christian was my first love.I think it's probably best if a third book comes out that I stay away because I don't want my love to be ruined by his POV.
Español - English De esta serie se ha dicho demasiado, yo incluida, así que no hay mucho que abundar.
Pueden creer que el libro en español tiene casi 100 páginas de más con relación al de ingles?
Me pareció fascinante estar nuevamente dentro de la cabeza de Christian Grey, sobretodo en este segundo libro que es mi favorito de la serie.
Christian Grey es una persona con serios problemas psicológicos y afectivos, pero aparenta una seguridad y un dominio que en realidad no tiene.
I think is fascinating to be again inside Christian Grey's head, specially in this second book, which is my favorite of the series.
DISCLAIMER:  HATERS please stay away, I DON'T CARE what you think. I'm sooooooooooooooooooooo happy!!Fifty Shades Darker from Christian's POV??? YES PLEASE!E.L. James Ilysm! <3 lol 2017 Please come already..
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me five times? Hell to the nah.
I will admit that I have a terrible memory, so all the little details, and even a few scenes...I had totally forgotten, which meant it was almost like reading a new book.
I have to say that I am...mainly because I did forget a lot of the little details...on the whole though, my rating ended up being less from when I originally read Fifty Shades.
In the past few years, I have read some books that have extremely passionate sex....I just didn't get butterflies this time from Christian and Ana...Please don't get me wrong though.
No, thank you. I had hoped this fuckery would be over at some point. Apparently not.
Since book 2 was my favorite out of the FSoG series, I just had to give this one from Christian's pov, a go. Not bad I must say, but just like with "Grey", I found there was too much repeated from the second book.Sure we get Christian's thoughts, which I was very curious about, especially because of the parts with Elena and Leila, but for me it was still like reading the same book again...
November 28th ... can't wait for darker days ❤🖤“Nothing turns out as I expect with Miss Anastasia Steele. Panic knots my stomach once more. Today, I have to negotiate a bigger deal.I want her back.”- Christian Grey* * * “She doesn’t really know me. She doesn’t know what I’m capable of, or why I do what I do. No one can love a monster, no matter how compassionate they are.”- Christian Grey* * * “She’s been hovering at the edge of my consciousness all day, like a guardian angel. My guardian angel.
Today, I have to negotiate a bigger deal.I want her back.”- Christian Grey* * * “She doesn’t really know me.
She doesn’t know what I’m capable of, or why I do what I do.
No one can love a monster, no matter how compassionate they are.”- Christian Grey* * * “She’s been hovering at the edge of my consciousness all day, like a guardian angel.
My guardian angel.
And I know what it is.
I thought I’d give you…me.”- Ana Steele 💖* * * “We move in the light.We slow in the shadows.We stop in the dark.”- Christian Grey

What?? Another 50SOG book?Someone PLEASE has to tell this author to stop writing this crap! ASAP! Trees are being cut down to print this shit ya know? Save the planet: don't read this.
THERES MORE OF THEM?! No no no no no no no goodbye
IM LAUGHING SO HARD SHES WRITING A FIFTH ONE
This series, like Twilight, changed my life, and I’ll forever be in debt with EL James for the whole new world she opened for this already bookworm.
I’m a sucker for a male POV, and Ms. James really us gave plenty of new and insightful moments, that just made me love these two even more!Emotionally charged, ultra steamy, funny and witty, and oh so romantic, Darker had for me a richer and even more developed writing than its predecessors, which fed my FSoG fan addiction to the fullest, and made me practically (given it’s a long one, which I’m thankful, btw) devour it in one sitting!
I devoured this book!!! What a beautiful, strong and brave book!! Ugh, it was so courageous. (Yup, I'm being sarcastic.) But I’m a HUGE fan of this series so I’m giving it an obligatory 5 stars. Judge away. LOL.
I am bored to death!Will finish this later...
Este año me estoy coronando con mis mega-lecturas.Para los detractores de la saga de 50 sombras, tengo que aclarar algunas cosas.
Leí el primero y me defraudó sobremanera, pero en este libro la autora ha tardado más en publicarlo, así que ahí estaba yo para darle una oportunidad.Que una misma historia sea contada por un hombre y por una mujer, me parece fascinante.
También este segundo libro me ha sorprendido con algo que en la trilogía original no se veía por ninguna parte--->y entonces lo que parece es un parche.
And I know that he's so horribly scared of that, but it made the book so meh.BUT - I still loved it and everything in it.
I wanted more from the past - Elena, little Christian, maybe a bit from school or something like that.I loved the book, but I would've loved it so much more with a bit more in it.
No offense intended, but it has to be said:What I hated - and what I already hated in the first 3 books - I wish that a talented US AMERICAN editor would've looked over the manuscript before it got published :/ There are soooooo effing many British words and expressions in there - Christian wouldn't say them - or think them.
I really liked the second movie and didn’t want the experienced tainted.So, my reading experience was a *Wow, kinky stuff is going mainstream?!?!* The movie experience was *Wow, I didn’t need the dark glasses and baseball cap after all!* My listening experience was *Wow, how does a bloke do this (reading out loud) without busting a gut laughing*.Thank goodness Zachary Webber didn’t bust a gut laughing.
Torture!!For the first time in any of my reading, watching and listening experiences, I actually thought *Geez, Christian, talk about double standards*.
Creo que ya todos saben que la saga de Fifty Shades es uno de mis guilty pleasures.
Y, además, hay ciertas escenas con las que no puedo disimular mi cara de OH MY GOD WHAT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW SO HOT HELP ME GIVE ME SOME AIR.
#SorryNotSorryA pesar de lo que se pueda pensar, estos libros contados desde la perspectiva de Christian sí que aportan un lado muy valioso a toda la historia de Fifty Shades.
Y hay algo que me pareció muy interesante y fue saber exactamente cómo se desenvolvía Christian en sus negocios y en todos sus proyectos filantrópicos y de desarrollo.
RESEÑA EN EL BLOG: https://bookstwins.wordpress.com/2018...Muy buen libro, me gustó mucho más que Grey. Además se conocen nuevos detalles de la vida de Christian y de su familia, también tenemos una nueva perspectiva de lo que ya leímos en Cincuenta sombras más oscuras.No veo la hora de leer el último :)
Mi-a plăcut mult si povestea din punctul de vedere al lui Christian! După cum mă asteptam, aduce unele completări în povestea Anastasiei.
James brings us into the mind of Mr. Grey, lets us feel his emotions and showed us just how insecure this man of control really is.As Darker mimics Fifty Shades Darker, we find out just how desperate he was to get his Ana back and what he would do to keep her by his side.
I am so happy that I am being given the honor to review this exceptional story and I am really looking forward to Christian’s thoughts and feelings in Freed.Head over to your favorite music seller to buy William Michael Morgan's "I Met A Girl" and have a listen.
I will also say that I will probably dive back into the series..
Sorry for the people who actually like this kind of smut and seeing the word dick over and over again.
I get that it's Christian's POV but I already hated the books from Anna's POV..
but I didn't write them.Now I will admit that Christina's POV is better than Anna's but that's just because the guy doesn't constantly whine or feel insecure.
Sorry guys..
I'm still kind of shocked that I dove into this book/series.Overall, it was meh.
I still don't like Anna and Christian.
