https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74098.The_Rise_and_Fall_of_the_City_of_Mahagonny
As one of the founders, Lady Begbick, predicts:We will make it a snarePlump little birds will be eager to enter,Everywhere men must labor and sorrow,Only here it is fun.For the deepest craving of man isNot to suffer but to do as he pleases.That is our golden secret.Gin and whiskey,Girls for the asking.Poet/translator W.H. Auden calls the city "Suckerville."The rules of the city are simple;One means to eat all you are able;Two, to change your loves about;Three means the ring and gaming table;Four, to drink until you pass out.In the end, the worst crime is to be indigent, to not pay your bills.
Four working stiffs from Alaska travel to a bed of sin called Mahagonny (note the word "Agony"), a town eerily prophetic of Las Vegas.
The boys blow all their dough,much debauchery ensues, culminating in the death of JJ Smith by overeating, Alaskawolf Joe by a fatal TKO in the ring, and Jimmy Gallagher's sentence to death by electrocution for being broke, his hard-earned pay bankrupted by drink, gambling and women in Mah-agonny.First performed in 1930, Mahagonny was the drama world's "Rites of Spring", prompting boos, fist fights, riots et al at its initial performance.
Even on the printed page it packs a powerful punch, and if you're interested in seeing You Tube videos of Mahagonny I recommend the more decadent German over the more tame American production.
I watched a Royal Opera House’s version in 2015 (unfortunately not alive, but at a Cinemark in my city).
Instead, the spectator is forced to retain a critical perspective by being constantly reminded that those on the stage are only actors.But in the case of an opera (or would it be a satire of an opera?) there is also the music, and here the partnership between Brecht and the composer Kurt Weill worked fantastically.
ولی طبق قراردادی نانوشته همه این قوانین را می پذیرنداولا خوردن و پر خوردن را از یاد مبردوما عشق و هوسبازی راسوما مشت زنی مشت پرانی راچهارما باده گساری رابعد خود اهالی ماهاگونی دادگاهی درست می کنند و پاول اکرمن چوب بر-که اولین کسی بود که متوجه ملال شهر شد-را برای جرم های مختلفی مثل دعوا، فریفتن زنان و باده گساری به زندان محکوم می کنند.

THE RISE AND FALL OF THE CITY OF MAHAGONNY. (1955). Bertolt Brecht. ***. This was the libretto to which Kurt Weill wrote the music. It is difficult to read an opera score with no music playing in the background, but, fortunately, I bought a recording of this work years ago. The most famous song to come out of it was “The Alabama Song,” which is best remembered when sung by Lotte Lenya. But all of this is beside the point. Brecht had a real purpose in writing this work. It was his comment on what
It is difficult to read an opera score with no music playing in the background, but, fortunately, I bought a recording of this work years ago.
Brecht had a real purpose in writing this work.
The play was first performed in 1930, and Germany was changing.
It’s all about the formation of a city named Mahoggony.
It was a wide open town whose location was somewhere between Alaska and Florida.
To be honest, it’s not a good play to read.
It’s best listening to a recording or, if you are lucky, watching a live performance.
Cet opera raconte la naissance et la chute d'une regime bourgeois, americain et capitaliste.
En fait c'est un hymne a la gloire de l'alcool, de la prostitution et la vice ce qui explique comment il a reussi a chercher un si grand public.Attention, ce n'est pas un opera pour toutes les venues.
Mon oncle a decrit son experience d'une representation de Metropolitan Opera comme étant un veritable calvaire.
Par contre je l'au monte par des étudiants de la faculte d'opera de mon muniversite a un biergarten.
this is re - read and I re watch of the Salzburg Festival Performance availableat dowtown library, read half sitting in the isle my shoes off and some cops lingeringaround thought they were gonna arrest me for my stinky feet, want to performthis as a one person show in one room with one bucket for a prop (for the water ofthe hurricane) - if this is ever performed go, also picked up the Jameson text onBrecht bit thick though that too is a re-read. Berlin in the 20's...
A wonderful seemingly lesser know Brecht stage of the power of money and the evils and controls when corruption is the system. While the script itself merits a read, the production and music is what allows this to ascend to a great work. Kurt Weill and Brecht combine to use ragtime and jazz to set a oddly enjoyable rhythms to the jarring nature of the play. Also note the influence of the Alabama Song covered by the Doors. Oh don't ask why.
Es erschließt sich mir nicht in Gänze, aber der generelle Ton ist klar und sagt mir zu. Dennoch recht abgefahren und nicht das zugänglichste von Brechts Werken.
It features an irreverent and somewhat risqué satire on capitalism in which all things – including love – have a prices and are for sale.
Alabama Song, covered by such luminaries as David Bowie and Jim Morrison, is dark, quirky drinking song featured in the opera.
Not a must-read, but if you like Brecht’s and Weill’s other works, this is very good.
(10/2014)The Seven Deadly Sins of the Petty Bourgeoisie – *** This is a ballet libretto (if there is such a term).
It basically tells the story of how we sell ourselves to achieve the bourgeoisie dream.
Mildly interesting to read.
This play (musical?) played a large part in my studies and experience of the theater, which would put it up with most Shakespeare in the stars, but as a play it moves down a tad bit.
Maybe put Mutter Courage at 5, these 2 at 4, which is fine.
I've seen it at least once in a professional production (LA theater, like Mark Taper?
I forget), maybe twice, and haven't the time to read through diaries to find out, but even on first reading I could see it on stage.
I found it rather dull, had to read it for a college design project. However it is an opera, so it is meant to be seen and heard not read, I'd imagine seeing it preformed would breadth life into it. Some interesting characters, not one has a redeeming quality to his name (which is refreshing in a way), the main character is an anti-hero. It is a political-satire, so if you have any interest in corrupt politics you may enjoy this, although I'd encourage you to see it on stage rather than just reading it.
Der Text der Oper selbst ist OK - das, was von Brecht eben erwartet wird; gut lesbar, aber kein Muss, das wären dann andere, bekanntere Stücke. Dann kommen allerdings die Anmerkungen Brechts, kurze Gedanken zu Oper und letztendlich zur Kunst, vor allem zur Kunst als Ware. Und es scheint, als hätte er diese nicht vor 80 Jahren sondern jetzt geschrieben, nicht (nur) über Oper, sondern auch über die Literatur und den Büchermarkt [sic!] heute. Kurzum: viel zu treffend und viel zu schmerzhaft und gerade deswegen höchst lesenswert.
I actually only read Galileo, and it was in a single volume. The play dramatizes Galileo's circumstances and spiritual conflict between his knowledge and understanding of the heliocentric structure of the solar system, which clashed with the Christian church. He was forced to recant his scientific findings but was kept in house arrest for the rest of his life. Brecht draws out his dilemna exceptionally well - it is a very famous play.
Parts of this—very small and infrequent parts—are very funny. Th politics and message of this are a mess. Not a mess as in I disagree, but a mess as in "what is the point?"The introduction is interesting but not useful. Because it's an opera, it's not in the greatest straight-reading style.
Hmm, I don't ubderstand the concept of the collection, how can so many plays feature on 142 pages?Anyway, I read The Threepenny Novel (the novel, not the play) by Brecht and it was quite an eye-opener, I truly enjoyed it. I was really sorry for the soldier figure :(
Brecht seems to be dated and too dark, (I like dark) I like operas and reading operas but this was nearly unreadable for me ... Even with a WH Auden translation. Dark anti-capitalistic screed really!!!
This is a book read in school, I have to read it. It was okay. Sometimes even interesting.
Kritik am Kapitalismus und einem korrupten Staatssystem - ziemlich gut.
