https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21996.The_Devil_in_the_White_City
But it’s almost as if Erik Larson wrote two really short books—one about the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition and another about the murder spree of Dr. H.
No alarm bells went off anywhere in Chicago as a result of his, um, unsavory indiscretions.Still, there is a lot of interesting stuff here, information specific to the world’s fair, and it is fun to learn new things.
Even that awful snake charmer song has its origins in the Chicago World’s Fair.
Here's what it must have looked like when Larson pitched his idea for the book:Larson: "And the fair didn't go flawlessly - towards the end of the fair, the mayor of Chicago was assassinated by a crazy guy, and there were tons of disappearances over the course of the fair, and a lot of them were probably the work of this serial killer who had opened a hotel near the fairgrounds - Editor: "Wait, serial killer?
It wasn't until he left Chicago that a detective from another state tracked him down."Editor: "Okay, so we'll make the end of the book about the manhunt for Holmes and his capture."Larson: "What does any of this have to do with the World's Fair?"Editor: "Hell if I know.
(Would an eighth grader say "teh best"?) And now we return you to our regularly scheduled review.I'm not a huge fan of non-fiction.
All this against the backdrop of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition (a.k.a. the Chicago World's Fair).Daniel Burnham, the self-made architect, who designed the Rookery in Chicago would design the Flatiron Building in New York, assembled a team of the best American architects of the day for the task of crafting a World's Fair in Chicago that would be even more exquisite than the one held in Paris years earlier.
So, no offense to those that liked this book, but I'm throwing in the towel after 75 pages.
Part of the reason for this is that Larson's writing style is way too speculative for my taste in non-fiction.
That got bothersome.I could have just ignored the non-fiction aspect and enjoyed the story, if not for Larson's habit of getting bogged down in inconsequential details.
He could have done a better job of interweaving those.So, since my curiosity is piqued, but not enough to continue reading this book, I'm just going to do some Wikipedia reading and call it good.
Chapter by chapter, in simple chronological order, the author juxtaposes preparations for the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair with the doings of one of the country’s first serial murders.
A lot of the focus is on the lead architect and fair planner, Daniel Burnham, and construction of the “White City,” as the classical buildings came to be known.
The serial killer was H.
H. Holmes, a pharmacist who capitalized on the World’s Fair by building a hotel.
Fascinating, with a lot of local color of the Windy City in that era.
H. Holmes (one of America's most famous serial killers) took full advantage.
There's too high of a disconnect between these two sides This reads like two separate books thrown together at inopportune moments - as soon one half got the least bit exciting, we'd swap.
The World Fair section was interesting in its own right, but it  paled so much in comparison to the serial killer that it became something to slog through.
But, there was a huge disconnect regarding page space.
H. Holmes sections would be - towards the end, we'd only get we'd get 1 to 10 pages from H.
The White City rises above the lake, like a fantasy from another time that never existed, but the eyes do not deceive, this image is real, bright lights glow at night, millions of respectful , quiet , mesmerized people look and walk by, the moon shines and reflects on the gigantic white buildings and glittering waters, magic drapes all...The Chicago World's Fair of 1893, arguably the greatest one in history, the citizens of this metropolis, the second city of the nation need to show everyone that they are more than hog killers, with speeding trains and prosperous businessmen , this is a sophisticated town, particularly to arch rival New York .
"Yes!"(Pictured - one of Nicolas Cage's more subdued performances; Not pictured - sanity)If you were to ask me my favorite thing about this book, I would immediately answer, "Erik Larson's writing style!"This book is mostly talked about for the portions pertaining to one of America's first serial killers, Dr. H.
There were times I almost forgot I was even reading a nonfiction book, as in these moments Larson's novel read more like something we'd expect to find in the horror section.Which is why if you were to ask me what my least-favorite thing about this book was, I would immediately answer, "Erik Larson's writing style!"Bet you didn't see that coming, eh?
He'll go on for several pages about some unnamed person, attempting to heighten the "mystery," and anyone who graduated second grade will quickly realize he's talking about the inventor of the Ferris Wheel.
But only several chapters later - in the manner of Nancy Drew abruptly tumbling to the bottom of a dark well - he'll have the mystery man dramatically sign his name to a letter: George Washington Gale Ferris.
George Washington Gale Ferris !!!!!!!!
After reading Isaac's Storm, which was also heavily embellished and the endnotes similarly acknowledging such, I don't trust anything this man writes.
The architect was Daniel Burnham, the driving force behind the Chicago World's Fair of 1893; the killer was H.H. Holmes, a Svengali-type figure who lured young women to his hotel and did the most gruesome things, the least shocking of which was murder.
Capitalising on the advent of the Fair, Holmes built his own hotel to attract single young women who were streaming into the city from across America in search of work, independence and a new life in the big city.
Although Burnham and Holmes are the book's dominant characters, there are walk-on parts for numerous figures who made their own mark on the White City.
Most of the dramatic facts this book will tell you show up near the top of the internet, and many are proclaimed at a bars when someone lets everyone know where Pabst won their blue ribbon and follows with, “A young man by the name of George Farris went to that same fair in Chicago, 1893 — and he built himself a wheel.”The best story and the reason why I wanted more was the story of Holmes, who murdered dozens while becoming America’s first serial killer.
Books without dialogue generally feel to me like Wikipedia, and they're good when I am able to stay interested.
This is really a great read filled with meticulously researched historical facts and notable people of the time.
H. Holmes.Reading about B.
H. Burnham's construction of the fair during a time of deadly diseases, grotesque environmental conditions and bank failures was certainly enlightening, but most intriguing for me was erection of the monstrous "Ferris" Wheel with enclosed glassed-in seats.
(googled some amazing photos)And this dude Dr. HHH.....Picture a young, handsome prosperous man with mesmerizing big blue eyes who is in fact an evil psychopath, sniveling cheat and conniving polygamist.
Extremely well written and researched, unsettling, entertaining, educational and fascinating are all words that come to mind on finishing Eric Larson's book The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed AmericaThe Chicago World's Fair of 1893 was a remarkable achievement for the city of Chicago and it's architect Daniel H.
Pre-review: “I was born with the devil in me,' [Holmes] wrote. 'I could not help the fact that I was a murderer, no more than the poet can help the inspiration to sing.”  Damn, it is exactly my type of thing! *jumps to read*(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/ursula-lecture...)Actual review starts here:Note: Buddy-read with DayDreamer .Rating: one of the best books in my 2017 reading list 20 sparkling stars: when you open this book, please be ready for the unimaginable from both the good and the evil!
Be prepared to be seduced by the magic and wonders of the glorious Chicago's World Fair ( or the so-called 'White City') *and* the twisted, gruesome but intriguing Murder Castle!Let us all DREAM BIG together with Daniel Burnham and his merry band of American architects!
Don't get me wrong, Holmes' many deeds and his gruesome Murder Castle are still highly intriguing to read about, still I want more from his story even after I was finished with it.Documentary for H.
Utterly compelling.
The only thing that was missing for me would have been some kind of map to show where exactly the Fair was located, and all the other buildings he talks about...
I think the fair was probably located roughly on what the Museum Campus is now, but I still would like to see a map.
And the few times that he takes liberties and describes things that no one could ever really possibly have documented, he does so in a way that is careful and responsible.
I think everyone who read the book would have thought there was something missing.
I live here now, and sometimes I still think of Chicago that way.).
The White City is the Chicago Columbia Exposition, a world fair in which all the buildings were painted white; the time the late 1800s during the fair; the Devil is a serial killer.
Chicago was determined to outdo the French, whose world fair in Paris had been a triumph, introducing, among other things, the Eiffel Tower, and mass use of alternating current.
He set up shop in Chicago about that time, acquired some property and constructed on it a building of his own design.
Larson peppers the book with dozens of satisfying factoids, about the people he is describing and about the times.
Excellent history lesson!!This book captured my attention from page 1. I enjoyed reading about many of the influential people who made this great nation what it is today. I learned so much more than when I was a student. On the flip side, I was horrified by the murders committed by Holmes and how much of an evil character he was.
I have been meaning to read this book since it was published and I finally got around to it 15 years later.
The Devil in the White City combines two of my favorite subjects Serial Killers & Victorian America.
I've read a lot of other reviews for this book and people seem to really hate the fact that this book isn't just about H.H.Holmes.
A lot of the reviewers apparently never read the back of the book or they would have known that its a split biography.
The Devil in the White City is obviously about H.
H.Holmes but its also about the 1893 Worlds Fair which was held in Chicago.
The Devil in the White City is one of those enticing little books in which you know what you're going to get, yet you read it anyway, and it delivers all the salacious excitement you desired...you filthy degenerate, you!Amid of all the magnificence and enchantment of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair......a doctor lured countless victims from the 27 million people who attended the fair into his "Murder Castle." His evasive trail is followed and his horrid deeds recorded, all intertwined with the often contentious development and creation of one of the most ambitious World's Fairs ever.The book is short.
The stories were not treated equally and at times the emphasis on the design and development of the architecture of the fair overshadowed the story of the doctor who was at times presented as an after-thought.To Mr. Larson's credit he took a wealth of information and presented it in an easily understandable style that read like a very long and pretty good Vanity Fair article.
I, however, as a reader was not wholly satisfied and the two stories were not treated equally and sometimes the connections seemed rather loose and haphazard.All in all, though, I enjoyed this book and will read further books by Mr. Larson.
It's both full of facts and a truly faithful description of the times, the players that made the Fair fantastic, as well as the failings, the madness, and the horror of its underside.Awe and Horror, folks.It's the same coin with two sides.For that and the fact that this novel is overflowing with awesome history, I loved it.
Page Turning phenomenal! I took notes on my iphone to remind myself of 'gems' to 'share/write' about -- but there are 'at least' 2,000 'already' wonderful reviews --WELL DESERVING-- about this amazing TRUE STORY --I've not much more to add. The building of the Worlds Fair was fascinating ---(all the details -and the challenges were incredible, engaging-interesting, and exquisite! 'Holmes' --(the killer), was just CREEPY!!! FASTASTIC STORYTELLING!!!!
This is definitely one of my favorite reads of 2015.Now I know this book won't be for everyone.
If you don't find the politics behind and construction of the fair to be interesting, then you won't like virtually half of this book.
But the historical aspects as well as the drama and intrigue behind the fair's regulations, development and questionable success was really fascinating.
And I almost felt the fair had more life, had been more fleshed out by the author, than the chapters revolving around Holmes' methods and murders.
And I will definitely be checking out more books by this author.
My expectations were high for this book of popular history, but I wasn't disappointed.The Devil In The White City is an entertaining and informative look at Chicago’s 1893 World’s Fair, which despite many obstacles – lack of time and money, natural disasters, a bad economy, pressure to top Paris’s fair, which introduced the iconic Eiffel Tower – got completed and proceeded to make international headlines and change the country.Larson tells the stories of two self-made obsessives: Daniel Burnham, the fair’s chief architect who went on to design NYC’s Flatiron building, and Dr. H.H. Holmes, a handsome pharmacist/entrepreneur who lured impressionable young women (newly arrived for the fair and often on their own for the first time in their lives) to their grisly ends.At first Holmes’s serial killer narrative is more gripping than Burnham’s bureaucratic and administrative woes; the details are just too macabre.
Intertwined with the creation of the dream of the Expo is a dark tale of an evil serial killer, preying upon the innocence and gullibility of women and men of the age.“The White City” is the name given to the fairgrounds, a direct contrast to the Black City as Chicago was known in part, a rough town with an inferiority complex.
The sheer audacity of this event is breathtaking, these are the people who built America.The serial killer, H.
Turns out my hometown of Waukesha, Wisconsin was to provide fresh, clean drinking water to the Chicago fairgrounds from our famous springs.
Somehow, the sum of things was far larger than the details by the end of the day, and Larson does a fantastic job of illustrating how flawed and quarreling, yet talented, architects made it all happen.Many ordinary people with a variety of hopes and plans found themselves swept up in the excitement and came to Chicago looking to change their lives with the opportunities presented by the fair - and ended up in the clutches of a suave, handsome, charismatic hotel owner who was not what he seemed.
In this book, we learn in particular about a Mr. Holmes, a documented killer.I thought I would include a link to a White City documentary:https://youtu.be/cpOQE5KJJdsThe dark/light duality of human nature is fully on display in these brief chapters of American history.
Some are clever, but this "one day, he would make headlines"-style became tiresome for me, quickly.Beyond this style irritation, I was disappointed, in Larson's failure to ever unite the two main threads: those of the World's Fair (mostly its chief architect, Daniel Burnham) and "America's first serial killer," H.H. Holmes, who murdered dozens during the same period.
Etc.Regardless of why Larson chose the World's Fair and H.H. Holmes as threads for his narrative, through them, readers can learn a great deal about this period in American history.
And since architects invariably deal with wealth, all the contradictions and surprises of the Gilded Age are brought to the fore.And perhaps the devil half contained enough meat to reach the topmost tier of true-crime nonfiction, just under Capote's unsurpassable In Cold Blood.
For example, since this wasn't strictly a true-crime story, he couldn't trace developments in crime detection forward over the decades; and because it wasn't strictly an architects' story, he couldn't follow up on his teasers regarding how the World's Fair changed American's conceptions of urban space.Even combined, this book needed a much heavier dose of sociology: yes, both stories with societal change, and both take place in Chicago — but what does this mean?
My daily life is filled with non-fiction: facts that are collected to give information quickly and easily to a reader.
I didn't realize this book was non-fiction when I bought it.
This book is a triumph because Erik Larson researched the hell out of this topic.
He pings us back and forth between two men of great ambition - Burnham and Holmes - before, during and after the time of their greatest triumphs.
I often found I was "treating" myself by reading the Holmes chapters; the Burnham chapters were a means to that end.
