https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662323.Mackenzie_s_Mountain
Still amazing to me, even decades later.Re-read this old all time favorite in kindle format (still have it in beat up paperback), because it’s on sale for $1.99 right now - so snag it now if you are interested! Anyway, I forgot how much I adore this story. And my Mackenzie family in general.It's old school romance, with an OTT alpha hero, and I adore it.
This book has a very "Dr Quinn, Medicine Woman" feel to it.Except of course, she isn't a doctor but a teacher :DFor the most part of the book, I kept forgetting it's actually a contemporary.
How they all behave, the story, Indian in the mountain and spinster teacher in small town fall in love, while the town hates him, plus being his cottage in the mountains, training horses and just everything :D I saw cars being mentioned and that made me remember it's set in present day, even after 50% of the book ahahahhahahahahhaI have to say I loved Wolf.
This is uncomfortable.Wolf feels his son doesn’t need schooling because he’s an Indian (cringe) Now after all the racist remarks which I somewhat forgave because I thought it was a historical this is when Joe, the heroes son suddenly declares that he wants to join the Air Force academy and fly jets.
Half of this book is about discrimination against Native Americans but the author does nothing except make it worse by describing the only 2 characters that are Native Americans as having "primitive" emotions, flying into rages, being "warriors" and referring to them having sex as "mating".So let's go back to the beginning.Mary (somehow I feel like this is Biblical reference which would be entirely on par for this book because she saves the "savage" but I'm not going to get in too deep with that) is a schoolteacher that moves from Savannah to the mountains of Wyoming to teach in the small local school.
This is in my top ten books of all time. I love Wolf and Mary. They are one of my romance supercouples. This is a book to read when you are feeling jaded about romance novels. When I read it the first time, I immediately turned around and reread it. I still have my first copy but I bought another copy since the first one is a little worn.
I love the Wolf and Mary's story, they are two great characters.
Mary meets half-breed rancher Wolf when she goes to his house to find out why his son Joe quit school.
Mary goes after him anyway but Wolf can no longer resist his feelings after something traumatic happens.
Wolf protects Mary while they spend a summer together while falling in love.
This is a beautiful and wonderful love story, I highly recommend this book and the rest of the Mackenzie books which tell the stories of Wolf and Mary's children.
I read this book in one sitting - which means I stayed up all night - so I'm a little delirious right now.
I won't write a review (you can thank me for that) but I would like to say a few things while I am still "living in the moment" of Mackenzie's Mountain.First of all, if you haven't read this book, you really need to get that taken care of.
"it" happens often!
Now, having read "After the Night", The Touch of Fire" and "Mackenzie's Mountain", I'm clamoring for more, more, more.
Cierto que la trama de suspense es bastante predecible, pero lo que de verdad importa es la historia de amor de Wolf MacKenzie, un mestizo mitad escocés, mitad indio (la mezcla te prende fuego a los bajos desde el minuto uno) y ese maravilloso personaje que es Mary Elizabeth Potter, con su dedo de profesora, su carácter combativo y sus ocurrencias, que me han divertido un montón.
Cierto que hay instalust (con ese hombre, otra cosa no es posible) e instalove, pero eso no desmerece una historia la mar de entretenida.
Obsessions were funny things; unhealthy ones could ruin lives, but some obsessions lifted people to higher planes of life, made them shine with a brighter light, burn with a hotter fire, and if those obsessions weren't fed, then the person withered, a life blighted by starvation of the soul.   Classic Linda Howard at her best!!   He had learned to use iron control when dealing with Anglos, but something about this prim little woman got under his skin.   Wolf Mackenzie is an Indian and an ex-co
Even if it means standing up to the gruff Wolf who makes her feel emotions she’s never felt before and who tries to push her away for her own good.
I just love these two together, how intense their chemistry was and the fact that Wolf made Mary feel like a woman, that she was desired and wanted.
And that Mary saw what a good man Wolf was, that she wasn’t prejudice against him like the other town’s people because he was half Indian.
Of course, there are still remote places of small town Americana that are like this, but not on the same saturated level that there was back then.
*hold on one second, while I actually drop to the ground so I can roll on the floor with laughter*While taking into account how old the book was, and trying to squint past some of the worst of it, I liked Mackenzie's Mountain okay.
I also kind of liked how the story started with the woman getting stranded in the snow, making it so she needed to be rescued.
The small town and ranch settings were nice.
This was a re-read. Will try and get a proper review done at some stage.
Shunned and feared by most of the town's people, Wolf keeps to himself on his mountain, raising his boy Joe and training horses.
Mary and Wolf cross paths when she ventures out in a snowstorm to find out why Joe quit school and then gets stuck in a snow bank.
The theme may be old-fashioned, but the way it's delivered is not.Small town prejudice rears its ugly head, accusing Wolf when some women in town are attacked and raped.
Mackenzie's Mountain is Wolf and Mary's story - a story of love, trust, values, and acceptance in adversity.
Very hard to rate this book because, while I loved the main characters, and even the hokey yet sweet nature of their love story, I abhorred the very dated, racistish and prejudiced plot, and its predictability.The book was written in the late eighties but the attitudes in it could have well been plucked out from a century before.
The B plot whodunit, cliche Mary Sue h, and overall very dated, offensive attitudes depicted in the book towards various minorities dragged Mackenzie's Mountain to a two star rating for me.
3.5 starsI wish I had read this about 10-20yrs ago, I think then I would have loved it as much as others do.
There are a couple older books (hello, purple prose!) that are very close to my heart that others read for the first time in this day and age and they don't find it as great as me.
I think this may be the case with this book and me, I liked it but cringed at some parts.
Our main couple, Mary and Wolf, had an incredibly sweet relationship and I definitely see what all the fuss was about with them.
3,5 estrellitas.Que un libro me tenga enganchada de tal manera que en apenas unas horas y sin darme cuenta me le haya acabado no suele ser algo que me ocurra todos los días, pero esta historia ha tenido todo lo que a mí me gusta en una novela de este tipo: Unos protagonistas con carácter, una trama de misterio bastante buena y unos secundarios de apoyo que han hecho que la lectura sea más fácil.La historia de Wolf y Mary tiene muchos obstáculos; desde el mestizaje indio de él, hasta un caso de violaciones que acechan al pueblo y en el que Wolf es el principal culpable.
Yes, I am the last person to ever read this.
Audible has an exclusive and it's part of their Romance package (Like KU for audible).I absolutely loved this.
I loved Wolf.
The narrator, Nanette Savard did a great job of doing all the voices.I do have to say, Mary sounds like an OLD biddy-especially at the beginning.
I want to read the ebook even more.There's insta-lust.
There's some sexy times, described very differently from what I usually read in Contemporary Romance.
I want to read the next book in the series.
;)This is the first book in a family-centered semi-erotic series -- if that makes any sense at all -- set in the mountains of Wyoming, in a small, insular ranching community called Ruth.Wolf Mackenzie, a tough half-Anglo Native American horse breeder, meets Mary Elizabeth Potter, a maiden schoolteacher with a soft Southern drawl, from Savannah, Georgia.She's prim.
I hope someday we get a sequel for granddaughter, Nick (Mary Nicole), and more of Chance and Zane.Ps. This book is almost 25 years out-of-date, so it's not a PC world, and Wolf acts like it, so maybe only 4 stars for him, but I have no trouble believing the townsfolk would be so biased against a half-breed ex-con.
I felt like I went 'Awwwwwwwwwwwwwww...' throughout almost the whole book.
Mary's in luck though because Wolf Mackenzie happens to be on the road as well.
Wolf is Joe's father and he takes poor frozen Mary back to his house.
Wolf has a past however that seems to be repeating itself that put's the whole town, including Mary at risk.
Mary now has to fight for what she wants and discovers she may not be so mousy after all.
On the whole though, it's a very short but sweet book and is certainly one I'd recommend reading on a day when you need a pick-me-up.
That being said, if you can get over the shock of the language, Wolf and Mary are awesome.
But I did believe he thought he was doing the right thing and Mary would hear nothing of it.
Mary's acceptance of Wolf's ways was perfect.
This was a very light read, even with all the bad stuff going on.
But I liked Wolf and Mary (and Joe - his son) so much that I did not care.
I liked the characters so much that I do lean towards 4 stars but I just am not quite there.
This one pretty much had it ALL --- action, adventure, mystery, suspense, steamy goodness, and solid character development.What I liked:--- Howard's main characters are always layered, which I appreciate as I get to unwrap little by little to get the whole picture; the female MC (Mary) was pretty straightforward in this book, but the male MC (Wolf) had more depth to explore--- The pace was good - it didn't move too quickly but was never stagnant--- The plot lines drew the reader in from the very start--- The steamy scenes delivered some yummy goodnessWhat I didn't like as much:--- When I read the description, I (incorrectly) believed it was a historical romance because of the extreme bias against Wolf as a Native American...
4,5 casi 5 en realidad.Me encantan estas historias, me dan lo que tanto me gusta, romance, intriga y ratos de risa con las ocurrencias de los protas.Wolf y Joe me encantaron desde el minuto cero y Mary también.Voy a por el segundo, me tiene intrigada la historia de Joe y muero por saber más.me encantan
AudibleOh, the bullshit.The old-school, overly-dramatic, racist bullshit.How many times was the word "savage" used, for starters?The narration was exaggerated as well.Ugh...Everyone loves but me.
Loved it!! I stayed up till the wee hours reading this book. I couldn’t turn away from it. One of the best romance books I’ve ever read. Lol. I’m slowly working my way through a “best romance list” I found on the internet and this was on there and I was very happy with it!!
4/5Me ha enganchado tanto que no he parado hasta que lo he terminado XD!Tanto Wolf como Mary me han gustado mucho y me han enamorado desde el principio. Ahora con ganas de leerme la historia de Joe, que promete.
Lectura entretenida, con algo de intriga que enseguida descubres. Me gustó pero no me entusiasmó. Eso si tengo muchas ganas de leer el siguiente porque el prota me conquisto en este libro ^^
"Scottish." "Oh. Are you a half-breed?"- She had read in books that a man took a woman's nipples into his mouth and sucked them as a nursing infant would, and she had always wondered why.- You should at least have tried to keep him in school!Wolf leaned very close, so close that his nose was almost touching hers.
Why would he want to go back?"Heroine being compared to a child, the infant boob sucking, use of words like half-breed, Indian and Anglo?Like I have mentioned before, I don’t think it’s necessarily fair to takes things from the past and hold them to our new and MUCH approved standards.
They just don’t write romances like this anymore (and if they do, can you point me to some titles please?).
She immediately befriends Joe and takes him under her wing and has all sorts of strange new tingly feelings about Wolf that she doesn’t understand (she’s a virgin).
Wolf tries to push her away for her own good but she’s stubborn and for some reason he can’t quite comprehend she believes in his innocence and trusts him completely.Mary's friendship with the Mackenzie’s causes her no end of trouble but she stands up to the bigotry and her loyalty never waivers.
Mackenzie's Mountain is a lovely story about how three people Joe and Wolf Mackenzie and Mary Elizabeth Potter achieve their dreams.
Mary Elizabeth Potter wonders why and decided to go and visit Joe Mackenzie at his home.
On the way to Joe Mackenzie's house, Mary Elizabeth broke down and came in contact with Joe's Father Wolf Mackenzie.
Readers of Mackenzie's Mountain will follow Joe and Wolf Mackenzie and Mary Elizabeth Potter to see what happens to them in Ruth, Wyoming USA.
Linda Howard does a great job of describing her settings which allows me to picture living in Wyoming USA.
Nothing like the books I have already read by LF, but very good reading. On to the next one :)
But for me, Mackenzie’s Mountain represents my first days of reading romance and I remember it with great fondness.
Although I’ve read this the book a few times over the years, I saw Mary’s character in a new light with the audio version.
The rather gravelly narrative swings from a monotone to a bit of a sing-song but lines are delivered with good timing and understanding of the romance within.
Wolf sounded like the voice that has played in my head for many years now and Mackenzie’s Mountain definitely falls into my relisten category.
