https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763047.Straight_Talking
This book reads like a long, long letter from one of your shallow and promiscuous girlfriends.
The narrative includes the reader by asking your opinion once in a while, and addressing the story to you which makes the reading feel like a two way street in a way which is kind of fun and intimate.
It's sort of like a sex in the city British style except the characters are less ambitious, less mature and less diversified in their personalities.
I enjoyed this book on some level, but found the lead character just a bit too self absorbed to truly care about.
another chick lit. not as great as sophie kinselle ( sorry i might mistype the name).straight talking is about finding love. and love is not neccessary ur fantasy man. sometimes the person who loves ubthe best is not as best looking as brad pitt. but again i read better.
I'm going to come right out and say that I actually loathed this book.
I don't usually get to say this due to not continuing on once I know a book isn't for me.
But this was a quick read and I really wanted our lead, Tash, to redeem herself beyond the shallow, vapid character she was in the beginning.
She is looks-obsessed, not only for herself and the gents she is thinking of dating, but she also comments on her friends; in particular one who is dowdy in appearance as an extension of her low self-esteem and horribly controlling boyfriend.
She wants her friend to dress better for herself, to help her feel better.
One day I got stuck without anything else to read and ended up just deciding to finish the damn book.It was no Jemima J, lets put it at that.
I hate when you find an author you really like and then find out that you started with their best book.
Oh bummer.I will say that this book has one of the hottest sex scenes ever ever ever.
She writes how I write and that gives me a smidgeon of validation and hope, hope that one day, if I can get past page two, I might finish my own book.Final Rating: 3/5
What I found most annoying was that the book was written as if she's sitting beside you telling you the story.
"You may as well join us," (umm, ok thanks for the permission to keep reading) "sit down, kick your shoes off," (way ahead of you, i'm not one to read standing) "Beer or Chardonnay, which would you prefer?" (well between those two, I'd say beer but if you can figure out how to get that to me from out of the page on a book, i'd be highly impressed and you'd be, well, awesome!) Anyway, I'm reading a book not holding a conversation so stop addressing me and get on with the story!
Whether good or bad motions, Straight Talking covers every spectrum of emotions of what women deal with when dealing with men.
The main character, Annastasia aka: Tasha, is so relatable and real, it's like you've known her all your life.
Whether you've been in a long-term relationship awaiting engagement or dating freely, this book will speak to you; if not through the main character Tasha, then through her three best friends who are dealing with their own "relatable" situations.
Straight Talking is what every woman who's confused or has questions needs to read.
I loved this book. It's about relationships and how the main character realizes that she falls in love with her best friend when it is too late and she comes close to ruining their relationship. The ending wasn't as detailed as I wanted it to be and was left open for your imagination. Overall, I really enjoyed the book.
How I love Jane Green. Excellent Brit chick-lit, and close second behind Marian Keyes.As chick lit is wont to be, this has a predictable ending... until the predictable ending gets a little unpredictable.I love that the ending isn't... well, typical of a chick lit book.
A bit into it...this way of talking to the the reader will grow on you and then you'll quite enjoy the fact that you really get to be inside this girls head...finding out just what she's thinking and most of the time you'll probably relate.
And then a few months down the line you realize you've made it through half the day without thinking of him.
Even if she doesn't, they become friends, but at any given point in their relationship she could fall in love with him.
Because she finally realizes that she deserves a nice guy.
This was a very quick, fun read.
It broke all the rules.
I hate first person, loved the narrator.
I hate when the narrator speaks directly to the reader ("Hey reader, what do you think?") but it worked in this book.
It's not a masterpiece, by any means, but if you're looking for a simple, fun book, this is a good choice.
Jane Green is a hit or miss with me.
When she tries to be too serious, or pull too hard at the heart, it doesn't work (The Beach House).
But when she lets her quirky characters lead, fail, and come back up again, it's entertaining.
Characters are very shallow, no relationships develop, you just don't care about any of them. Story of Tasha, she just needs to quit whining and get on with it. It's clear she's stuck and wants a relationship, but in reading the novel you just get so tired of the shallowness. I thought it was going to be a story of woman friendship, but other than an occasional lunch, the friends don't appear at all.
This is purely beach-reading. Not a lot of thought, not a lot of surprises in the plot, but a switch-off, relaxing and possibly even mindless sort of girlie book. I have a weakness for these types of books and after reading some legit types of literature, I turn to them for a break.
I had to force myself to finish this book. I wanted to throw in the towel very early, but I wanted to finish. I was just not a fan of the main character Tasha. She just drove me crazy!
The ending was a disappointing cliff hanger. I was left on the top of the second hill of this roller coaster love story. Mostly well written but more lewd than "wickedly funny"!
Her writing style was different this time around, the main character speaking to the reader as if they were having a conversation.
This was a book about four friends in their early 30's but who are all in different types of relationships.
The main character Tasha (Anastasia) has a series of relationships and flings but can never seem to find the one.
In the end she decides to give the relationship a go and it works really well except she stuffs it up by getting caught kissing one of Adams best friends.
Very enjoyable, although at times I didn't like some of the choices of the main character.
I was not crazy about the main character but would have kept her as my friend just would have been more like Mel is all.
could not believe how many comments i got about the cover, seriously now its not that oooo, but then learned they were questioning the title, like straight as opposed to gay, what are you reading?
and im like straight like to the point duh!
they say it as it is, the point of her narration was saying how friends usually filter the way they retell dating stories.
i think my problem is that i dont usually filter.
The bestselling first novel that launched Jane Green, one of the brightest stars in contemporary women’s fiction, Straight Talking sets the record straight regarding the real world of dating, and follows the adventures of Tash and her friends as they search for fulfillment and the right kind of love.
Funny, flirty, and ultimately tender, Straight Talking gets at the heart of modern romance.I really wanted to like this more.
It sounds like my kind of book, ladies dating and having a hard time finding Mr. Right, blah blah blah.
I normally jude a book by its cover, and yes i do mean an actal book cover.
When i read the reviews to this book I thought to myself, "How will I ever like it?" Well I LOVED it!!
If you are in your mid to late 20's and single, this is the book for you.
jane Green did not hold anything back.
This book was one of my favorite books.
give it a try and you will love it.
I ahve not read any of Jane Green's books, this my first and surely not the last!
i didnt like it,i didnt like the way that it was written,i found the talking straight to the reader format embarassing to be honest, and i really disliked tash. the only reason i finished it was out of pure boredom,i found tash so whiny and annoying,and extremely self-centred - i know it wouldnt be realistic if the lead of every book was perfect but i found it impossible to find one thing i liked about her!
I am really glad that I finally decided to read this one. Oh, Jane Green! I just wanted to shake Tasha so many times in the story, but at the same time I was really pulling for her. This made me think a lot about my relationship with my husband. Passion, comfortability, friendship... Great read all around.
Teniendo en cuenta que hace un par de días puse a caldo otro libro de la misma autora, estoy gratamente sorprendida.Desde principio a fin ha sido muy ameno e interesante de leer, y la historia tenía algo más de sentido, y sobre todo, contenido.Uno de los aspectos más gratificantes en la lectura ha sido la natutalidad y espontaneidad de la narradora, que en este caso era Anastasia, la protagonista.
El estilo informal y explícito, además de independiente y decidido, ha hecho que todo el libro pareciera algo totalmente real.Sin embargo, la historia en sí no ha sido la más agradable.
i don’t like this book!even though it is the story about 2 best friends fall in love to each other but it is boring!Do I adore Jane Green? yes, i do. but, this book is not interesting at all! one thing you should know about this book. Its about sex. all of it is about sex, she write it down vulgarly and it disgust me. and when i read it on my work place, i was really disgust in myself even i close he book down immediatelyno more review because i was disgust with this book.
I started skimming around section 15 because this book reminded me of why I don't generally read chick lit - the heroine was intensely self-absorbed and had a lot of Issues, which made the first-person perspective kind of claustrophobic. It was cleverly written but it's like, I had enough experience dealing with this with my own pile of single girlfriends back in the day, it's just exhausting dealing with it in literary format.
I'm a huge fan of Jane Green. Still working on reading her whole collection but this book irritated me. At one point I started to feel like her books are all the same but they're not. I'm not even 30 but I'm in a committed stable relationship and maybe it's because I couldn't relate to the main character but I just kept feeling as if Tasha was dumb and naive. I like her as an author but this is a book I'll never read again.
Mediocre chick lit that pretend to be "not like all those other chick lit books" and then does the same thing. The thing, incidentally, I greatly enjoy, but not when the book is trying to be too good for it at the same time.
Easy and fluffy chick lit. I'm definitely past this stage now and don't think I need to read another Jane Green book. I loved them ten years ago. Especially Jemima J. It is a perfect book to read at the beach though.
I like to read these books for a little light reading and was pleasently surprised by this book. While still being a chick-lit, there were a couple of really interesting parts about how people work and think. I look forward to reading more books by Jane Green.
Everything about this was predictable and cliched. And I wanted a classic chick lit! This was not what I expected. The characters had no depth. Everything tied up way to easily. It was dull. It was not insightful and I hated the way she spoke to the reader all the time. She's written way better!
.
It was a good book but was definitely more focused on the physical side of relationships rather than the sweetness and love. A little too physical for me.
