https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236208.Night_Chills
I'm talking about any of the Dean Koontz novels published by Berkley that had a black cover with simple artwork and colorful (sometimes neon) titles and bylines.
I'm going to try and explain.Dean Koontz has been rewriting the same ten books since around 1990.
While I remember very clearly the first 200 pages of Night Chills, I thought this book ended differently because Koontz has reused this idea at least four times.
The only consolation I have is that there are thousands of Koontz fans out there who remember his heyday, who truly adored his Black/Neon era.
Most Dean Koontz novels are a source of brain candy for me...think the gooey, dripping kind that parents never want their kids to have because they know they'll be the ones scrubbing it off the couch or inside of the car.
I have no problem with violence within the confines of a horror novel; I mean that is one of the central themes in these types of books, right?
What I can say is: This book makes the reader think about if they had the powers that allowed them to control somebody, would they enact the same savagery that this psychotic does?
Compared to the more current works by Koontz Night Chills has a more of an edge to it.
Naturally one of the evil men is a scientific genius, but also a sadistic sex fiend who is an idiot when it comes to being a Big Bad. Things quickly spiral out of control and our little intrepid band of heroes grab their guns (The NRA has got to love Koontz.
If you read Dean Koontz none of this should come as a surprise.
Well grab a copy of Night Chills and six or seven other Dean Koontz novels.

Just by the writing style of Night Chills, I could tell that this was an older book by Koontz.
Night Chills was probably so far, for me one of his darkest books, with a few disturbing rape scenes.
Aside from that, it was a good read, the mind manipulation plot was interesting, in a creepy kind of way, kind of reminded me of the Jedi Mind trick from Star Wars, HAHA!
The first few chapters were slow, with a few lengthy flashbacks, but once I got past that and got to know the plot and the main characters, it became a real page-turner.It also has one of those crazy villains that you just want to hate so much that you hope he gets it in the end!
Hmmm...wasn't that impressed by any of it really. I guess I would say his books might be lumped in a guilty pleasures pile but there wasn't much pleasure involved in this one. =|
It's been a while since I read this (I'm pretty sure I was still in high school), but I do recall, even then, that it was crap.
Granted, it was highly readable and entertaining crap, but crap nonetheless.
I remember thinking, as I read it: "Koontz is pretty much projecting every sick, sexually perverted male fantasy he's ever had into this story and passing it off as entertainment.".
The story, I think, had something to do with some kind of government project that turns the inhabitants of a small town into submissive sex slaves.
If this was the first Koontz novel I read, I would not have read another one of his books. The violence to women was over the top. I am not a prude but I feel like this was excessive and it took away from the the interesting part of the story, subliminal messaging. I just felt that Koontz took the less creative way to show the evils of mind control and when science takes a wrong turn. Very disappointing.
Night Chills was one of the most disturbing Dean Koontz novels I've ever read, really shocking and creepy.
I was very disappointed by this book because I usually really like Dean Koontz.
Night Chills started out okay in the first couple of chapters, but after that it went downhill.
And after those first few chapters, the biggest chunk of the book is dedicated to an in-depth explanation on how subliminal messaging works.
Most of the time when I write a review, I try hard to put positive comments along with negative ones no matter how much I dislike a book, but I have no positive comments for this one.
I didn't care about the characters, the writing was flat, and I was completely bored.
As I said I suppose if that bothered you less even if you weren't fond of the book you might go 2 stars, but I couldn't see abandoning a book and giving it more than a single star.********************** SPOILERS BELOW LINE *************************(view spoiler)[Okay, subliminal advertising happens.
It showed that the "subliminal advertising" had NO effect on the audience and Vicary admitted he'd lied about the original result.Yes, there are attempts (still) at subliminal advertising (I suppose if you call hiding the word "sex" in advertising a subliminal message).
And then I couldn't have sold it to the used book store.
Subliminal advertising made into way more than it is...on star because I stopped reading the book.
This book was about a man who took his kids to the mountains for their annual vacation.
He starts to fall in love with this woman after his wife's tragic death.
Then a doctor showed up in the mountains and started asking strange questions.
He would now have control of the whole world.I would recommend this book to people who like scary-ish stories.
It kept me on my toes most of the time.
It was also kind of hard to follow at times.
All together I thought it was a pretty good book.
You'll be downright disgusted by the behavior of the main villain Ogden Salsbury -- the scientist who believes subliminal advertising can be used to take total control over people.
Leonard Dawson and military general Ernst Klinger -- use the isolated mill/logging town of Black River, Maine as a test case.
However, later on when the residents are encouraged to watch a specific program at a specific time -- that is when the real trouble begins.
It's these people who are the only hope for the residents of Black River after they fall under the spell of the three villains.
Non leggevo Koontz da anni ed era da tempo che un libro non mi appassionava tenendomi sveglio a leggere fino alle due di notte (view spoiler)[(La brutale uccisione del bambino figlio del protagonista è agghiacciante ed inaspettata, un vero pugno nello stomaco del lettore.) (hide spoiler)]. Purtroppo il finale non mi è piaciuto proprio (view spoiler)[(il miliardario che si reca sul posto senza uno straccio di sgherro al seguito e la ragazza che non ha mai sparato in vita sua che fa fuori come un
Non leggevo Koontz da anni ed era da tempo che un libro non mi appassionava tenendomi sveglio a leggere fino alle due di notte (view spoiler)[(La brutale uccisione del bambino figlio del protagonista è agghiacciante ed inaspettata, un vero pugno nello stomaco del lettore.)  (hide spoiler)].
Purtroppo il finale non mi è piaciuto proprio (view spoiler)[(il miliardario che si reca sul posto senza uno straccio di sgherro al seguito e la ragazza che non ha mai sparato in vita sua che fa fuori come un cretino il militare veterano sono davvero troppo da digerire...)  (hide spoiler)] e, nota dolente, titolo e quarta di copertina di questa edizione italiana sono fuorvianti ed inventati di sana pianta...
non ci azzeccano quasi nulla con titolo e sinossi originali del libro.
Alla faccia della professionalità!
I usually like Dean Koontz's writing but this one was just horrible with over-the-top forced sex situations and mind-numbing sciencology of subliminal messages. Basically we have 3 evil geniuses trying to rule the world starting with a small town in Maine. Unfortunately it morphs into a debauched sexfest. The extent of the violence is ridiculously unnecessary to sell this story. I found myself skipping over a good lot of the encounters just trying to stay in the moment of the subliminal experiment. I didn't need repeated rapes to get the point across that mind control is bad.
father of two: ahhh this looks like a nice place to camp out with my kids for a few weeksSuper villain: Hey lets just contaminate the drinking water with a drug then I'm gonna come brainwash and rape everyone in town....father of two: hello my name is Paul and u killed my sonsuper villain: why won't my drug work on ufather of two: I'm gonna kill usuper villain: I'll kill u firstmoral of the story: drink bottled water people
During my Army days I snapped up Koontz, King and Herbert as soon as titles became available. I still treasure the signed book from Koontz (hard to get when living in Europe).
To the greatest extent possible, I need you, the reader, to appreciate how fantastic this paperback actually smells.
This is more of an observation than an outright criticism of Koontz, but I believe he has been writing and then re-writing the same books since sometime around the mid-eighties.Which leaves me to wonder: How much of his work did I ever really truly enjoy?
It's an intimidating thought.I’m legitimately apprehensive about going back and re-reading some of his previous novels I enjoyed when I was younger from fear that I will hate them, which is a genuine concern since anytime I’ve read, even his more recent work, I’ve disliked them immensely.
An enjoyable read, for a book found in a secondhand bookstore.A cautionary tale of using subliminal advertising to influence people's minds.
Moreover, that being the 70s, the "horror of modern technology" and the whole concept of advertisement brainwashing feels almost naïve, though certainly true to its era.My father was an avid Koontz reader for some time, but having tried some of his novels when I was kid, I found them utterly terrifying (an impressionable young kid that I was) and stopped reading after the first few pages.
In an introduction to Night Chills Koontz writes that the book might leave readers "uneasy, frightened, perhaps even terrified".
3.5 starsGlenn drove the Land Rover into a stone wall at just over 100mph.Alice stuck a meat fork through her hand and pinned it to the chopping board.Brenda took off all her clothes.
(view spoiler)[I also wasn't a big fan of how sadomasochist Salsbury was and how he saw all women as "bitches" and deserving of the pian he caused.
Koontz tried to explain that he was like this because of the abuse he suffered as a young child but I just couldn't get past this (hide spoiler)].
Gripping, disturbing, vivid, incredibly intense- mind control on steroids! Yet not one of my favourite Dean Koontz novels. But here I am still thinking about it and how it made me feel- so that says a lot in itself, right?
I re-read this one and it still stands up. Koontz mixes his thriller concept with some science fiction-ish as well as fantastic ideas. Overall a great book and I can read (and see) where a book like this would eventually take the author's writing in his future.
This book will make you think twice about drinking water!
Dean Koontz gerçekten radikal bir yazar. 1991'de Türkçe edisyonu basılmış, 80'lerin ortasında orijinal baskısı çıkmış olan "Gecenin Ayazında" kitabında zihin kontrolünü bilgisayar destekli bir kurguyla harmanlamayı başarmış.
The second book on this year's Halloween reading list was Night Chills by Dean Koontz.
Koontz put the same care into creating his villains, a truly frightening group of power-mongers: Ogden Salsbury, a violent misogynist born of childhood abuse; General Ernst Klinger, a Pentagon bigwig seeking money with which to further his own hedonism; and H.
Sex, money and religion (which, though guys like Dawson would deny it, is really about power) would be first on the to-do list.
Salsbury making women into his "willing" sex slaves and forcing Bob Thorp to savagely murder a child chilled me.
There was a time when I thought Dean Koontz wrote circles around Stephen King.
He wasn’t famous.
He had a cult following and he made you feel like you just discovered someone cool.
He was the anti-King you could keep to yourself or share with a selected few.
Koontz, of course, went the way of all flesh and began cranking them out and repeating himself.
Fame?
Well, if ‘Family Guy’ rips on you, fame has become your enemy.
I haven’t read a Koontz novel since Odd Thomas became a regular character.
The early books were dynamic, rip-snorting fast and most of all—interesting.
Book of the month for Koontzland group.I was surprised how explicit this book was; surprised, not shocked. The author's books are usually tamer. I prefer the humor and character development of his later books.Mad scientist, mad general, mad millionaire, small town = mayhem.
There's a cool horror story going on in this novel but unfortunately you gotta weed through lousy characters and some rape scenes to find it. I find I either really love Koontz or prefer to use his novels as coasters for my Jameson on the rocks.
I think Koontz needs to work on his endings. The first 3/4 of the book is really interesting and then the last 1/4 felt rushed and the ending was a little lame. Like the other Koontz book I read it was like he was going to go over his 330 page limit so he just had to round it off quickly.
I'm usually not too thrilled by Koontz's early works, but this book was shockingly original. For its time, I imagine this book was quite frightening, and unique. I really enjoyed it, as I was surprised by this originality.
