https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30069.The_Walking_Dead_Vol_3
BEST PART OF THE ENTIRE SERIES SO FAR
I think it is so appropriate how the characters have deluded themselves; they really think they’ve found a new home in the prison: they think it’s a safe haven.
The prison could never last not with every one trying to kill each other.That’s the good thing about this series.
It isn’t just about zombies going around eating people: it isn’t a simple case of horror thrown over action.
They live with what they’ve done.
I can’t predict who is going to be the next to die or to lose it.
The situation is only going to get worse, and more entertaining (evil laugh).
This was the best volume so far!
Prisons are ideal places in this reality!  This is the third volume of the softcover editions of "The Walking Dead", collecting the comic book issues from #13 to #18.Creative Team:Writer: Robert KirkmanIllustrators: Charlie Adlard Additional gray tones to inking: Cliff Rathburn Chapter Three SAFETY BEHIND BARS   I ain’t gonna bury you again you son of a bitch. In our society, you never would want to go prison, but in an apocalyptical dystopia plagued with zombies, a prison would look like the l
In our society, you never would want to go prison, but in an apocalyptical dystopia plagued with zombies, a prison would look like the logical choice.Rick’s group finds a federal penitentiary, that it seems to be the place to expiate their sins, but also they can be a site with its own kind of sinners.A shocking revelation will expose a new facet about their life-and-death condition.And also, they will find soon enough that zombies may be deadly, but men are evil.
Zombies aren’t guilty of their actions, men are quite aware of theirs.And men are able to do more horrible things than any zombie.Until now, you haven’t seen anything yet, the really gruesome things starts here.
The bloody, putrid, rotting corpse of soap opera goodness that is The Walking Dead graphic novels is in its full balls out glory in the third collection Safety Behind Bars.Lori is pregnant with Shane's baby -- And in case you don't know, Shane is the former best friend of Rick, Lori's husband.
As these things are wont to do, the suicide pact only resulted in Julie's death, and as soon as she died, with no zombies in sight, she was reanimated and trying to eat her grieving father's neck.
Rick finishes her zombieness off, while Tyreese strangles his daughter's lover to death.
Unpopular opinion; I’m not a fan of the tv show. The comics are growing on me though especially being a fan of his other series
I don't know what it is about this series.
It makes it difficult to really care about too many characters within the story.Also, Lori's character becomes more unbelievable with every volume - it is painfully obvious that she is written by a man.
Then again, most of these characters - male and female - are very one-dimensional.I know it sounds like I am just railing on this one, but I'm sure I'll find myself buying the next volume, so Kirkman must be doing something right.
Man, I thought Lori was annoying on the show but she's even worse in these. More detailed review to come.
Things are really getting crazy now!
I LOVE the covers by Tony Moore, they are brilliant.
I still wish the comic was in colour (yes I know I've said it before) but I feel like it could have brought a lot more to the comics.
I mean the covers are in colour and they're spectacular.
I have a thing for pretty colours that work together.
Anyway, I also love the story.
You think things can't get any worse for the group but Robert Kirkman just keeps throwing stuff at them!
Fatigue strikes on volume 3. This isn’t the grovels fault but my own for trying to read this whilst watching the show simultaneously. The show is just a shower of shit now and that has tarnished any opinion of anything related right now. I’ll take a break before hitting up the next one.
I’m kind of surprised that after three zombie-filled volumes, that these graphic novels still deliver big.
I feel that this is quite the feat considering how much I liked the first two volumes.I think the main reason that this story continues to feel fresh is the introduction of new characters.
These new characters add a lot to the story because there is often a little backstory accompanying there introduction, and because you are constantly wondering if they are f’ing crazy or not.
LOTS of killing happens, and not just of the zombie variety.
I’m talking fucked-up, did-that-just-happen kind of killing.

This was by far the best volume in the series so far.
Not only do the characters manage to stay in one spot for the length of the volume (unlike the previous two), but there was a lot more development with various characters.
I love the storyline of Rick and his crew getting to know and having to live with the other prisoners, and there were a lot of shocking moments and heartbreak throughout.
The action sequences as well were drawn incredibly well, as usual.As the graphic novel series is quite different in terms of plot a lot of the time to the show, I'm intrigued to see where volume 4 ends up going.
YOU KILL , YOU DIE So simple rulethose are the rules now xD , it was the best volume so far <3
I did notice one weird detail Kirkman’s added: whether you’ve been bitten or not, once you die, you become a zombie (also they call them zombies in the book, unlike the TV show where they’re called “walkers”).
There’s also the requisite zombie action which has already become rote and, despite the large cast, I’m not really interested in about 90% of their mundane stories.I still don’t fully see what fans of the series do but the third volume is definitely a step up from the previous books and even manages to become quite exciting in parts.
WrensReads Review:So I am reading the first compendium again so I can read the second and the third.
Rick and the gang are cleaning out the prison to make it into a home.
But you can't judge a book for what they got committed for, right?Well, wrong and right.See now someone is actually killing people in the prison.
All this while trying to get "zombies" out of the prison they are trying to make a home.Which brings me to my only disappointment: they have been using "zombie" instead of their made up ones like "roamers" "walkers" "lurkers".
I really enjoyed this volume. I can't remember how close it was to the show, but found the story amazing.
This one felt a little slower until the end, and it definitely feels like some scenes are added in for pure shock value.
Looks like their journey is going to continue so I'll be along for the ride to see where they end up next.
They should probably get rid of some people, too.
People are freaking out and having these crazy mood swings all the time.
You would think the zombie apocalypse happened our something.
Hopefully it's not this bad when the real zombie apocalypse happens.
Do you think Donald Trump could build a wall big enough to prevent the zombie apocalypse?
Probably not....
Volume 2 concluded with the confrontation with Herschel and his family and the gang leaving with no food and no direction.
The final panel had them come across a prison.So I choose to call Volume 3 'The Walking Dead in da Clink'.There are lots of great ideas and themes brought forward in this issue.
The prison is not quite deserted; lots of zombies of course, but 4 prisoners have managed to survive.
that he has to go and invite Herschel's group into the prison.It's fascinating that even though they are in what they presumed to be a safe place, the body count is still escalating.
It's official - comic book Lori is far more annoying than tv Lori.And this was the best moment so far.
The group arrive at the prison and start to make a home there, and start to feel safe.
How can they be safe behind bars when the biggest threat there isn't the living dead, but the living?...*dramatic music*This issue is a bit of a turning point for the group.
In the first 2 issues, the group basically trusts anyone who comes along and gives them the benefit of the doubt.
By the end of Safety Behind Bars, they learn to not be so trusting with outsiders and start to develop some rules to their new life - the first of which is "You kill, you die!!"
This was insane??! It was so action packed that it actually felt like an episode of TWD! By far the best yet.
Ein ehemaliges Hochsicherheitsgefängnis scheint mitten in der Zombieapokalypse der perfekte Zufluchtsort zu sein.Allerdings will dieses erst von den Untoten gesäubert werden und außerdem gibt es auch noch einige Insassen die sich weiterhin bester Gesundheit erfreuen.Es drohen Gefahren sowohl von außerhalb als auch innerhalb der Gruppe der Überlebenden.
In diesem Band wird nach und nach der Mensch zur größeren Gefahr für den Menschen als es die Zombies jemals sein können.Die Frage ist, wie behält man sich in dieser ins Chaos gestürzten Welt seine Menschlichkeit, welche Regeln gelten noch und welche neuen Regeln müssen aufgestellt werden.Die Charaktere überzeugen mich leider noch nicht vollends.
In diesem Band gibt es gleich für einige der Figuren herbe Schicksalsschläge zu verkraften und ich habe durchaus mitgelitten.
We see the group get emotional and raw as someone has been killing off their own.
The whole groups tensions are high and the breakdown of all the main players and characters really saves this volume.
Kirkman's story, writing, and delving into the human psyche and range of emotions really is growing and improving by the volume.Some of the plot arcs that start here look to have a promising end in the future and I look forward to seeing how this progresses.
Summary and review of this volume:All the disliked characters die, and I'm completely ok with it.
oke this is way better then the show.
No surprise, the volume that solidifies the series as truly great, the one that earns Robert Kirkman the title I alluded to in my review of volume 1, Days Gone By. King of the Zombie Genre, is the one with some of the most disturbing sequences (so far).
Provided the series is a success, this is where I will watch with concern on how AMC handles the story.Safety Behind Bars gives us the modern day equivalent to the infamous mall setting: a prison.
Safety Behind Bars is an excellent catalyst for several future story arcs.
Safety behind bars? I don't think so.A lot of gruesome deaths here.A psycho is on the loose and the prisoners are suspects by default. Lori gets more annoying than ever. Rick snaps at her and that made me smile.It's also hinted that everyone is in fact infected. You die, you turn. Getting bitten is not necessary.
Now it gets better and better. The prison part is really interesting, and I finally see a main character that starts to be interesting. When I finished this part I was really looking for the next one - so yes, it really is far away from the first issue.The drawing starts getting a bit better, a bit smarter, and it starts to communicate better the atmosphere.
It was fun, it was quick but it wasn't anything special and it's not nearly as good as the tv show in my opinion :| I will for sure continue with this series, I'm just not sure when I'll buy the next volume(s).
