https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19057.I_Am_the_Messenger
Like, SO good.
The rest of the book: I liked it.
The "twist" at the ending was good.There are a few iffy spots, where he describes a scene and it's not at all clear what exactly just happened, or he over describes and reminds the reader that what's happening at the moment is related to something that happens previously, and you're like "OK yeah, I know, I read that 20 pages ago." But overall, not major problems.The major problem with this book.
In touching other people's lives he finds the purpose in his, his way of being great.At one point he says he thought he was doing one of these people a favor but "I realize it's the opposite.
(view spoiler)[It took me a second read through the twist at the end to realize the stranger on the couch was Zusak.
We find our own names on an ace and we can take this message as ours: that anyone, no matter how ordinary can be great, and put it to practice in our own lives.
Then, you're just like me.Or Maybe you're here because you haven't read it and want to see if it's worth your time.
In that case, let me be precise and say, Go Read it.Now.Or Maybe you don't like this book.
And I was starting to fear that maybe I won't like the book after all.
It confused me, unnerved me and rang like a déjà vu.At that time I didn't know why.But then I was reading another book, and like an epiphany, I realized it was because I do that a lot too.
I conjectured that maybe it's because he reads a lot of books.
That aside, I read more books than I should, and I’m decidedly crap at sex and doing my taxes.
He understands that he needs to deliver a message to each of these places, but the card offers no further instructions.
I’d noticed this about so many characters in The Book Thief and I feared it was a one-time deal, but Ed might be the best of them all.
In complete contrast to the ending, Ed is one of the most real and tangible characters I’ve ever stumbled upon.
The story is just another few hundred pages of your mind.
FEELING SO MANY FEELINGS RN.This book was pretty fantastic TBH.
I don't that it was quite a 5 star and INCREDIBLE but it was pretty great.Ed was an overall likeable character, though sometimes he said and did some very problematic things, especially in his relationship with girls.
But most people in life are problematic in one way or another, so #relatable #reallife.This book was a bit hard for me to get into at first and took some easing in but once I was in I wanted to finish it ALL!The ending was a little weird and abrupt, but kind of fit the book.
Will Ed ever find out who is behind is mysterious messages?Apart from books by Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett, this is my first foray into young adult literature and I enjoyed it immensely.I think the first thing that pulled me in was that Ed is a lot like I was at nineteen.
And hell, I'm damn sure I would have taken up the messenger role like Ed did had I gotten playing cards in the mail.The supporting cast was very well done, from Ed's friends Marv, Ritchie, and Audrey, to the people he bore messages to, like Sophie, Milla, and the spoilerific rest of them.The writing was superb.
2.5 stars. Some books you instantly love - they reach you, unconditionally. Others you hate with passion and you would happily burn them if only you weren't reading ebooks (also, you really don't want to have something in common with every tyrant out there). Then they're the mild, non-committal threes and two-and-a-half, better known as  the great shelf of meh. ► Well now. Do not be fooled by my 2.5 stars rating : I Am the Messenger is not one of those books.Indeed this rating is to be taken as
Do not be fooled by my 2.5 stars rating : I Am the Messenger is not one of those books.Indeed this rating is to be taken as a chicken-hearted average to somehow express the utter confusion I've been feeling.Here's the thing : While I cannot deny that some parts were pretty great, especially when it comes to the pacing (rather fast-paced, even though it took me 4 days to read it, which is a lot for me) and that I liked most of the writing - - Oh, about that.
I knew nothing about this book going in other than that it was by The Book Thief author.
I probably never would have tried it without that being the case, so it does pay off to have one big bestseller!This odd little story is touted as a Young Adult book.
It can definitely be given the designation as being a feel good story.I also mentioned The Book Thief above (dang, I am going to have to start adding cross reference notations to this review!) If you are hoping for another Book Thief, this is not it.
I think if I had the time I would finish it in one sitting.At the beginning, I thought that I was reading just an ordinary book, with ordinary characters and their ordinary lives.
I can't count the times when I've read a quote from this book that made me stop reading and just think about it for a few seconds.And the ending is the reason that I ended up liking this book even more than the The Book Thief.
I haven't seen each episode but my boyfriend was telling me how one of the students went on to become an ophthalmologist and would go to third world countries to examine people and hand out glasses every chance he got.
Ed has no clue who's behind the cards, or what the purpose of all this is but he carries on, unwittingly improving the lives of all the other ordinary people around him and in the process coming to understand himself, his mother, his friends and the girl who is the object of his desire on a deeper level.
And then I thought about the way it held me in suspense, how it kept the kids in my teen book group reading and thinking, and I dusted it off and gave it a hug.
That would spoil the book for you, and you really should read it.
The basic plot is, a guy stops a bank robbery, gets written up in the local paper, and then gets a mysterious message in the mail.
It's the ace of hearts, I think, and with it is three addresses.
Now, this guy is just a cab driver with no ambition, so he doesn't really want to get involved...
I'm here, I'm a blubbering fool, get used to it.I didn't have high expectations going into this novel, I'd heard it wasn't as good as 'The Book Thief'(pfft...whole box of kleenix on that one).
But, the writing makes up for it.
Plus, a 19-year-old-suffering-from-low-self-esteem-who-has-a-severe-case-of-unrequited-love-that-is-moved-enough-by-circumstances-presented-to-him-that-he-does-whatever-he-can-to-improve-their-situations??
Um...my 19 year old self would have been utterly smitten.
With lines like this: "The yawn of a girl can be so beautiful it makes you cringe".
Maybe this is a 'chick' book, maybe I've never matured past the age of 15, maybe I'm one of those dreamy doe=eyed girls that you snarky bastards make fun of.
Markus Zusak does not disappoint! I love the message in this book and it leaves such a powerful impact!
I love The Book Thief so much that I was a little afraid to read more of Zusak's work just because my standards for his writing were set so ridiculously high.
I Am the Messenger is the story of 19-year-old Ed Kennedy, an underage cab driver who basically just plays cards and sucks at romance, and essentially isn't going anywhere in life.
So, it's not like he's some kind of magical guardian angel; he's conflicted about a lot of the things he has to do, and nervous to get involved in some people's lives––because he has to get involved in some pretty intense stuff.Basically, you just have to experience it.
From here on out, Ed acts as a messenger, delivering to each and every person on the playing card what they need.The novel starts off with one of the best first chapters I have ever read: the bank robbery.
Unfortunately, the book never again reached that high mark of suspense but it was entertaining nonetheless.One of the best things about the story for me was Ed. I loved him as a main character.
I felt that the middle part of the novel, the actual message delivering, didn’t captivate as much as I would have liked.
So despite the general hilarity of the book, which had me in splits before the first chapter was even up, a small part of me was subconsciously waiting for the other shoe to drop – waiting for the tears and the heartbreak I was so sure would come.And it never came - well, not in the way I expected.
It’s like strawberry-flavored or something, that voice.
The way the book ends...it’s unconventional, to say the least.
I think it’s the kind of ending that only a genius like Markus Zusak could come up with.Delightful.
3.5 /5 stars  "Sometimes people are beautiful.Not in looks.Not in what they say.Just in what they are." Let me just begin this review by saying that I Am the Messenger is not The Book Thief. As enjoyable as it was, it is nowhere near as incredible as The Book Thief was. But did I really care? No. Markus Zusak has such a way with words. He makes you feel the story, and the words, as if they were tangible things, and I love that. The words never feel empty, never like nothing more than ink on a pa
He makes you feel the story, and the words, as if they were tangible things, and I love that.
And now weird-shit magnet on top of it.Admit it.It's not a bad list I'm building up."I don't know what it is about his books that make me feel so many things, but damn.
"I got hearts, and for some reason, this feels the most dangerous of them all.
Honestly, when I finished the book, I threw it down onto my bed, and left the room.I understand why Zusak ended it the way he did, and I didn't entirely hate it, but I just wanted more.
Ubacujem moj review sa jednog drugog mesta... :D Ne zamerite :DUčiniti pravu stvar za ljude koje ne znamo nije laka stvar, a još je teže to uraditi za one koje volimo i za sebe. Zusak u ovom (na momente izuzetno vedrom i smešnom, a na momente teškom i veoma ozbiljnom) romanu poziva upravo na to - da se usudimo na taj korak. Ovo je neodoljiv roman koji svojom porukom nadmašuje "Kradljivicu knjiga", napisan izuzetnim stilom sa veoma intrigantnim završetkom.I da, definitivno treba pročitati ovaj roman još jednom... i još jednom :D
I wanted so badly to like this book because I liked the Book Thief so much, but I just couldn’t. I couldn’t get past the constant swearing, the sweaty smelly characters, and the story line kept shifting back and forth from horribly bad to decent and the decent didn’t compensate for the horrific. . In the Book Thief the charm of the characters seemed to make up for their lack of poise and class, this book couldn’t pull that off.
I read this because I loved The Book Thief and astronomical amount.
Like REALLY loved it.
(Although it does have Markus Zusak's style and wording, which I love.)At the end of the day I didn't love this book, but I think it's a piece of honesty.
But the plot was so airy and built on "well, he just did" that I kind of lost it.I didn't much like Ed.I didn't understand why he was doing these weird messages.I didn't like Ed's huge HUGE hangup about how he was not-good-at-sex.
(Love me some Aussie books.
MARKUS ZUSAK, WHY ARE YOU SUCH A GENIUS??? This book was just as amazing the second time around, FO SHO.

“Maybe everyone can live beyond what they're capable of.”   Marcus Zusak. You are such an unbelievably talented writer. I'm sure you already know that. You write with so much passion. With so much thought in the words you use and how you use them. There was no crappy circumlocution (which I hate by the way), there was just simple words that conveys a deeper meaning. Zusak is indeed a magnificent storyteller.  "Sometimes people are beautiful.Not in looks.Not in what they say.Just in what they a
I know it's silly but, I can't rate a book a perfect 5 if there were some things I didn't like about it.
This book is an encouragement, for those people who are losing hope, for those who feel their life is going nowhere, for those who thinks their stuck on where they are, for those who feel that they couldn't help others because they couldn't even help themselves.
I would recommend it to anyone who are looking for a read that will leave you thinking about life, reality, yourself, others, and a bunch of other things in between.Will definitely be looking forward for more of Mr. Zusak's books.
mean??so Ed automatically interpreted it as some crime is going to happen at those specific addresses at that specific time and never once questioned why?
he questioned why he, himself, was chosen, and kept emphasizing that he was just a lowly cabdriver with no future and this phrase was stated so much it got so annoying.
he never really went in depth into it though and didn't really realize what stuff was happening around him.audrey, his best friend whom he has a crush on, also realizes what it means even though the cards weren’t even being sent to her.
(i read the last chapter before i officially dnfed and somehow, it got even more unrealistic and confusing)
He was one of those characters that are ridiculously slow at getting the gist of things and you just want to reach in and shake them by the collar and be like ‘WHY DON’T YOU GET WHAT’S HAPPENING YET?!’ I know there has to be an element of cluelessness in books like this so the author can develop the story properly… but this was silly.
It's like it was written for this very moment.Recommended For.People who haven’t read The Book Thief… your high expectations will be dashed.
People who like books that are a mixture of The Christmas Carol and PS.
I love when this happens, and it’s usually when I am reading a few books at a time and then something comes along and blows the others out of the water.
Throughout the book I could hear the Strayan accent which I love and don’t hear a lot any more.Ed Kennedy is still in the suburb where he grew up, driving a cab and doesn't have much ambition.
At the end of the book he is still in the suburb that he grew up in, driving and cab but he is a completely different person.
HONESTLY ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE READITS AMAZINGI HIGHLY RECCOMEND READ IT ITS JUST WONDERFUL AND IT MAKES ME CRY AND LAUGH
It's not too profound, but it's great, and I made this book feel more special.Sometimes people are beautiful.Not in looks.Not in what they say.Just in what they are.In first instance, I thought I was going to dislike Ed. Why?
That's how it feels reading paragraphs like that.I could forgive that, but there was something that bothered me, and it's this:I at least deserve something, I reason.
I mean… without spoilers, I can say it wasn’t in the least what I expected and it kind of ruined some great things in the book.
Z, is for Zusak 3.5 StarsI didn't know words could be so heavy.Some writers use words like water in a garden, liberally and freely, while others use them with a sparing grace; concise and to the point. For me, Zusak falls in that second category. He has a talent for infusing his simple prose with more power than the words themselves own. I respect that, I respect that a whole lot. That isn’t to say I don’t enjoy some more wordy writing, that would be a lie, but I have a whole different level of
Z, is for Zusak
For me, Zusak falls in that second category.
Ed Kennedy is a nobody, an underachiever so to speak, who surprises everyone by stopping a bank robber one day.
After that day, Ed’s life will never be quite the same.
He starts getting coded playing cards, leading him all over his rural town and into places and situations he would never have gone on his own.
Something he was blinded to before the cards started arriving.
It takes effort to look inside another person’s situation, and Ed is finally starting to learn a vital lesson about the world:I'm just another stupid human.
If you pass your mouse over the star choices, 1 star reads "did not like it"! This does not necessarily mean it is a terrible book, only that the reviewer did not like it. People like different things, right?! This book did not fit  me . Hopefully, by explaining my reaction others will be better able to decide if they will like the book or not.Life isn't as simple or as sweet as it is drawn here.This is my primary complaint in a nutshell. I must clarify; the message is sweet and simplified, even
People like different things, right?!
. Hopefully, by explaining my reaction others will be better able to decide if they will like the book or not.Life isn't as simple or as sweet as it is drawn here.This is my primary complaint in a nutshell.
I am fine with giving the book to young adults, but I prefer gritty over sweet and I don't appreciate simplification.
The story is drawn as a mystery.
While the dialect does fit the story it just didn’t appeal to me.
Keep in mind I do not let the narration influence my rating of the book.
