https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2051483.Arthur_s_Halloween
Another book about facing your fears.
Of course the children talk about the old Lady in the run down house being a witch and a rumor is spread that one kid went in and never came out.
It's interesting to think of how we can get sucked into these rumors that can create fear.
This book covers the fact that Halloween can be a little scary.
The kids liked this book.
We live next to a cemetery and I take the kids often and they wondered why the children thought that was scary.
Ours is not scary at all.
A neighbourhood has a house no one you know has visited, an unsettling rumour about the last person who did, or a grim story about a poorly-known resident family.
Arthur’s neighbour needed help with raking and general exterior upkeep but the story that unfolds in this adventure paves an original atmosphere that is all its own, shifting quickly to happy, triumphant feelings.This story establishes how jittery Arthur is: around creepy decorations his Dad puts up, accessories his Mom sews; and being saddled with the devil-costumed D.W. We thus know the feat it is, for Arthur to cross Mrs. Tibble’s threshold in pursuit of D.W. Marc draws adorable kitties escorting Arthur’s brave entrance.
Just a funny story about Halloween night. Students do a writing activity about what they do on Halloween night after we read this book!
They were almost white and I couldn’t understand why the illustration was like that, especially since the cover was so full of color and was so graphic.I didn’t remember Arthur being such a scaredy cat.
I didn’t remember the kid called the Brain, and he dressed like a baked potato which was odd.
I expected them to tell their friends to come and trick-or-treat at the house, so I was disappointed that they didn’t.
The friends all think she put eyeballs, hearts and brains in their bags, and now Arthur is the one telling them to close their eyes and reach in unless they’re too scared.
“D.W. must be shot for Dim Wit.”I can’t believe his sister went into the witch’s house!!That was a nice addition to draw out the kids’ predictions of what the witch was doing to Arthur and D.W., like cooking them in the oven, doing scientific experiments, or locking them up in the cellar.
I wasn’t sure Arthur trusted the situation, so I was surprised when he said “Maybe if we help you fix up your yard, the place won’t look so spooky.” But it was nice of him.That’s so cute all his friends are in the bushes as they come out.Arthur tells them to reach into his bag to find out what’s in there unless they’re scared, but it doesn’t have the kids respond.
Arthur's Halloween is a good book especially for kids that enjoy the Arthur series.
Arthur's family makes the house look spooky but putting up decorations.
The house so so spooky that Arthur was scared by it.
In school, everyone is in the Halloween spirit, however Arthur seems very scared and taken back by it all.
They go trick or treating that night and there's a rumor about "the witch's house".
Arthur and his sister lost the group they were going to get candy with, but then D.W. goes into the witch's house.
The illustrations in the Arthur books are nice to look at.
As we get into the 1980s, Marc Brown is definitely finding his voice with his Arthur creation and the universe he inhabits.
I read this book many years ago from the school library in Public School 71 on Forest Avenue in Ridgewood, New York.
(Arthur's little sister) heads into a house that is said to be inhabited by a witch.
I won't spoil it for you - but as always, there's a lesson to be learned here.While Arthur has a more refined look from his first appearance in Arthur's Nose about six years earlier, he still bears a more elongated face - quite a contrast from the more cuter appearance of his in the renowned PBS series.
For some children, the scariest part of this book will be the old character designs of Arthur and his pals. This is of course part of the Arthur series, and while it could probably be read alone, most people are probably aware of tv show. Marc Brown always does a great job making the kids adventures relatable and I remember that when I was a kid, I loved the details in the pictures and would make my mother read any labels or writing in them.
I loved the Arthur books and t.v. series. Holds a special place in my heart (great memories) I read this to my 4 year old son. He enjoyed it. Arthur's Halloween is a very cute book, with a good message; "Do Not Judge According To Outward Appearance!"
I would use this book again leading up to halloween. We would talk about different costumes.I would use this book to talk about working with our siblings and we would also talk about bravery and putting our fears behind us to help our friends when they are in need.
A classic story about not being afraid...just in time for Halloween!
This was always one of my favorite Arthur books (and one of the only ones I still own), mostly because I love Halloween so much. I still really enjoy the simple illustrations.
The kids really liked this one.
It was funny because Arthur was the one that was scared and D.W. was the little one and wanted to go into all of the spooky houses.
Copyright 1982. My book's illustrations look different. This is a fun book & a favorite for the Keller kids at Halloween. DW's costume is appropriate!Arthur overcomes his fear of the spookiest house on the block to rescue his sister.
Title: Arthur’s Halloween: An Arthur AdventureAuthor: Marc BrownIllustrator: Genre: Comedy and Humor SeriesTheme(s): Courage, Bravery, Heroism, Honor, HalloweenOpening line/sentence: It was the night before Halloween.Brief Book Summary: Arthur is scared of almost everything that has to do with Halloween.
The artwork in each book features Brown's customary cartoon-like ink and watercolor illustrations that add humor to the stories.
Consideration of Instructional Application: Around Halloween time I would read this book to the children as a read aloud if they were not at the level yet where they can read on their own.
Arthur's Halloween: An Arthur Adventure (Arthur Adventure Series) by Marc Brown follows Arthur as he battles his fears of Halloween, including D.W.'s costume, a scary Halloween school snack, and the big house on the corner, where his friends claim a witch lives.As Halloween approaches, Arthur's fears increase.
My favorite illustrations include the cover, D.W. as the devil scaring her brother, Arthur's classroom with everyone in costume, Arthur's friends discussing which houses to skip, Arthur's in the witch's hallway, Mrs. Tibble hugging D.W., and the kids walking through the cemetery.This is a great Halloween read-aloud story, which I was lucky enough to hear Marc Brown read aloud many years ago at a conference.
When he finds out he has to take his little sister D.W. trick or treating he is very disappointed.
While they are trick or treating they up at the scary house on the corner.
Arthur books are my absolute favorite of all time and I would love to use them in the classroom to come up with fun activities that go along with the books.
I still love them today and find them fun to read.
I still watch the Arthur show as much as I can and remember watching when I was little and reading all of the books I could.
Marc Brown's Arthur picture books are always very good, and Arthur's Halloween is no different in that regard.
Even after Arthur's adventures have necessarily been expanded for the small screen, these short picture books contain qualities that make them appealing to just about anyone.
Marc Brown has a certain perception about how to meld words and drawings to create a real, attention-getting scene, and that is perfect for a Halloween storybook.
The story itself in Arthur's Halloween is solid and contains an excellent built-in lesson, thoughtful without being overbearing.
Arthur and his friends are always fun, though.
This again touches on the fact that Halloween can be a scary holiday and kids need fun in it to be able to handle it.
Arthur is celebrating halloween and wants to have all the fun he wants.
However, he is stuck with having to take his little sister trick or treating and he is more than disappointed for having to take her out in the night.
When they go out they get to a scary house and instead of being brave, he is stuck with being scared.
And teachers can have fun with this book in their classroom on the holiday.
Very fun for the classroom !
Halloween has finally arrived and Arthur finds out he has to take his little sister D.W. trick-or -treating and he is extremely disappointed and upset he has to spend Halloween with his little sister instead of being out having fun with his friends.
When the two approaches a scary house Arthur is scared.
Once entering they discovered that the house wasn’t scary at all and it was just portrayed as being a creepy place.
This book has such a beautiful message and is so fun to read during Halloween time.
Arthur’s Halloween is a great book that can be used to teach children not to judge people and places on their outside appearances, but to wait and make a decision once you have more information.
The book starts out with Arthur being disappointed because instead of hanging out with his friends, he has to take his sister, D.W., trick-or-treating.
While they are trick-or-treating, they come across a scary, haunted house, and while Arthur is scared, D.W. runs inside forcing Arthur to run after her and save her.
While Arthur assumed the house was haunted from its outside appearance, it was not scary at all on the inside.
Arthur has trouble dealing with Halloween because he's basically afraid of everything, so it's not exactly the ideal holiday for him.
He is even less excited by the prospect of taking his little sister trick or treating with him.
When D.W.disappears into the old witch's house, Arthur is less than thrilled about following her in, thinking he will have to save her.
This was a pretty entertaining book, and it also teaches important lessons about overcoming fears and not judging people/things based on their looks.
The pictures weren't super amazing, but I liked them in conjunction with the story.
Overall, it was a pretty good children's Halloween story.
What a great book about conquering your fears.
Arthur is afraid the days leading up to Halloween.
When he goes out trick-or-treating with D.W, his sister, and his friends they mention not to go to the scary house on the corner because a witch lives there.
Arthur has to face his fear and enter the house.
He realizes there is no witch at all and offers to help make her house not so spooky.
This is a great book to read around Halloween, and to show children that Halloween is just pretend and there is nothing to be afraid of.

Arthur and his friends go trick-or-treating.
His friends don't want to go to a spooky house, but Arthur is forced to go there to find his sister.
It turns out a nice old lady lives in the house.
My son must have liked it because he wanted me to read it again.
But I thought it was just okay.
First of all, D.W.'s Halloween costume (a devil) is rather creepy looking.
Second of all, the old lady in the house is a human--not an ardvark or a bunny or another animal.
Since when are there humans in Arthur's world?
I thought that was weird.
Arthur's Halloween by Marc Brown is a funny book in Arthur series. This book is obviously themed around Halloween. A very scared Arthur just wants this holiday to be over. He doesn’t like the food or the decorations, as they are too frightening for him. He doesn’t even like the costumes. When he has to take his sister out trick or treating he begins to fear. His fears increase when DW disappears into the witches down around the corner! This book would be a nice October read for younger classes. You could do Halloween activities after reading.
This is a great story in the Arthur series and for the fall season.
I always pull this one out to read during the month of October.
It's a recognizeable character in a series for young students, which can be a big plus, and it follows a likeable, exciteable theme.
As a big bonus for me, we're always introducing and working with using dialogue in our narrative writing during the month of October.
The Arthur series offers a great, approachable template for students to observe in how to organize dialogue.
The story has a great lesson in it too.
I really liked the way that this story took Arthur from being afraid of Halloween and the scary things that go with it to him being braver than everyone else.
It shows that the things we don't know are often scarier than the things we do, and once we confront our fears, we become more confident.
Arthur's friends make fun of him at first for being so scared of things, but once he proves himself, they are very much in awe of him.
It is a great story for beginning narrative skills because it isn't too long but it isn't too short.
Fans of Arthur are sure to enjoy this story!
Arthur's Halloween is about Arthur going trick or treating with DW and DW somehow disappears into the "Haunted House" and learns that everthing is not what it appears. Arthur books are great because they give great interactions between Arthur and the other students. The moral of the story is a bit more important that the fact that it is a story about Halloween. The illustration of the newer release is better than the older one. Arthur in the older copies looks more like an animal and Arthur now looks more human like.
