https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40605001-the-thin-woman
Plot wasn't fascinating, except one aspect. Don't know what UK company the author uses to get remodeling done, but I want to hire them: she described her Heroine getting a complete kitchen makeover (Aga and all), complete antique-house electrical permitting and rewiring, a bedroom or two, and at least a drawing room, all done in 5-6 months, no delays, nothing in the wrong size.
The first half of the book got off a bit slow for me--we didn't seem to be making any progress, or finding many clues, to the "mystery." However, I enjoyed the cozy and easygoing writing style, all the details and little character traits (especially of Ellie).
I found the second half much more exciting as we finally got a mystery to start working out--I admit that a few of the clues were too obvious, and though I had worked out most of the "whodunit" essentials, I still received a few good surprises when all was revealed.
Ellie Haskell is a hapless young woman who is too chubby, too old, and too clumsy for life to take her seriously and bring her a man.
Now, I am not a romance reader and this book is no typical romance......., you will not find here a long drawn out scene in which the main character experiences "flutterings" and "butterflies".
It is well written, and an easy book to pick up and get right back to if life demands that you leave off reading for a bit.
This is the first book in the Ellie Haskell series.
It is an easy and relaxing read with no sex or graphics volience.Ellie Simons looked at the letter on violet green stationary in voting her to Berlin's Court for a reunion of the family.
After some unfavourable comments Ellie informs the group that Ben his her fiancee.
At the funeral and will reading, Ellie and Ben find themselves inheriting the estate provided the accomplish the following Ellie needs to lose 63 pounds and Ben must write a book without sex and foul language.
They must live at Merlin Court for six months and find the treasure.
Jan 1, 1993Cannell appeals to the sides of me that like mash-ups.
You've got a standard Romance premise combined with a cozy mystery plot, and the whole thing cracks me up.***Oct 27, 2016I really dislike the whole fat-to-thin story line, since it assumes that A.
skinny is better than fat B.
fat is the fault of individuals lacking willpower and C.
fat people don’t have happy love lives.
But a woman gets to spend six months cleaning and decorating a Victorian faux castle on a huge budget, and who doesn’t dream of that?
Staff to do the bits one doesn’t like?
Cannell adopts a 1930s, Agatha Christie-like style for her debut novel, which is a pleasant enough mystery for about two-thirds of its length.
But then the author loses all sense of reality.
This is one of my all-time favorites. Overweight Ellie Simons hires Bentley T. Haskell to pose as her boyfriend for a weekend visit to her uncle's estate. He dies and leaves the estate to them if Ellie can loose weight and Bentley write clean and decent book and they both can solve the mystery. It was such a zany idea especially when the protagonists become attracted to each other. Ellie, especially, is a very well developed character and the action in the book is zany and fun. All in all, it's a pleasant way to spend a few hours.
Wonderful. I loved the plot, the characters, and the mystery. I will read the next one!
I laugh every time I think of her in the giant purple dress.
The obvious happens many times, but this is one of those great light-reads.
This is one of my very favorites for the light reading category.
I was feeling sad tonight and really wanted something that would make me laugh and would be well written (I just finished evaluating 45 not well done research papers and would like something that is well done).
Just finished (for the hundredth time).
HOWEVER, DO NOT READ ANY OF THE OTHER BOOKS IN THE SERIES!!!!!
ONLY READ THIS ONE.
This book was Fantastic!
It kept me smiling and sometimes laughing out loud the whole way through - very witty.
I LOVED all of the characters; the plot was swift-moving but the descriptions gave me enough 'time' to imagine I was really there.
This is by far the best of her books.
In fact, I have reread it so often it is falling to shreds!
A wonderful cozy book - any time I'm feeling down or nervous or moody, I can pick this up and be instantly swept up into Ellie's crazy life.
Really really a great book, one of my favorites.
This is a serious "Twinkie" book, by which I mean it was yummy but I wouldn't want to subsist on a diet of it. A super fast read (less than 2 days) that combines Miss Marple with Moonlighting. Would be a perfect book to read on a long flight. Lighthearted mystery book with funny characters; somewhat predictable, but I didn't guess the big twist. Summer reading at its best. Yay me for reading something!
Toll, toll, toll! Dieses Buch hat mir von Anfang bis Ende sehr viel Freude bereitet! Ich liebe den Sarkasmus der etwas schrulligen Charaktere, ich mag die Idee, auf der die Geschichte aufbaut, das Rätselraten und schließlich die für mich sehr überraschende Auflösung des Falles.Absolut empfehlenswert! Ich werde mir auf jeden Fall auch die anderen Bücher der Autorin anschauen.
I read this book a long time ago, and really enjoyed the wit...a lot of tongue in cheek humor...mystery, romance, and humor...my kind of book...Cannell has several more in this series...her last is one I just got to read, and am looking forward to it.
What a fantastic read! One of the absolute best books I've ever read. And the ending! Really well done.
Reading this book felt like drinking a brisk cup of tea.
In fact, looking back now, I'm not sure when the mystery starts.
The problem was, references to Victorians and Edwardians made me think this book took place a generation or so after the turn of the century.
It is the sort of book you take on vacation and enjoy between sight seeing because you can politely set it down and know you can pick it up and the plot will all still be there, brisk and friendly and ready to get things going.
Being a slightly overweight person, I liked the idea that Ellie had to lose weight in order to get her hands on Uncle Merlin’s millions.The book was very well written and I enjoyed being in England at the time the book was written.
I liked how some of the everyday names of things we have here in the USA are named differently from some of the English counterparts.It is an enchanting story and fun at times.
Not your original cozy to say he least, but good!A litle more entrige than most cozies I have read, but still very good and worth the time to read and worth my recommendations to my family and friends.
When I listened to this first book in the series of Ellie Haskell stories I laughed out loud. I have enjoyed all of the mysteries and am re-reading The Importance of Being Earnestine. The freshness diminish after you get used to the author's style. However, Ellie provides light entertainment and humor in a nice package
Four stars for making me laugh out loud.
Started out sounding much like Bridget Jones. Couldn’t put it down. Kept me guessing until the end!
One word: FUN! It is simply a fun, uncomplicated read.
A good curious mysteryIt was a cute humorous mystery with some ha ha moments. The main character life was very interesting with her crazy relatives.
A twist on the country-house mystery, where the main characters have to pass a couple of tests to win the treasure and the inheritance.
Ellie has to lose 60 lbs in six months (good luck, honey), while the man she hired to be her rent-a-boyfriend for the family reunion has to produce a "clean" book for publication.
While the end was facile in the extreme, it was a fun read with a few very predictable twists and turns.
If you're not in a demanding mood and just want to be entertained, it's a good read.
Hysterical.One of the funniest books I've read.Ellie Simmons hires an escort to pretend to be her fi
Don't waste your time with this book. It is extremely slow moving and the author uses a TON of adjectives, (like the white, fluffy, slow moving, yet dainty clouds), in an effort to make the book long enough to publish I think. It seems as if the story was created to make a fool out of a heavyset character and it is focused on slandering her do to her weight. However, since it is written from that characters point of view I guess that makes it okay? Hmmm, I was sadly disappointed by this book.
THE THIN WOMAN - GCannell, Dorothy - 1st in Ellie Haskell seriesOverweight and unmarried, Ellie Simons balks at the prospect of attending her family reunion. But with a hired escort in tow--posing as husband--she summons the courage to go, little realizing that the weekend will lead to unexpected romance, a treasure hunt--and murder.The story was quite light and I wasn't taken with the protagonist. It was good but definitely not great.
This was a very good read in the light, cozy, mystery category! Fun characters, good story, and a "didn''t guess that" ending! I will absolutely read the rest of the series.
Really enjoyed this, funny and an unexpected ending. First in the Ellie Haskins series by this author. I have already downloaded the next 3 books in the series.
(I really dislike it when a book have a heroine that has easy life and suddenly got a ton of problems.
Like Christie's, this book's mystery is laced with thick coat of human emotion and mental drama.
In this book, there is this lady who was dead like eons ago, and the hero and heroine was in awe at the first sight of her portrait and suddenly get obsessed with her because of her grace lalalala (among other reasons).
Towards the end of the book, it was explained by the lady's granddaughter that “She and my grandfather, Miles, had a good life.
Diesem Buch gab ich 2 Chancen, denn nachdem ich es das erste Mal weg legte, da mich die Geschichte mehr ärgerte, als unterhielt, gab ich mir einen Ruck und las noch weitere 100 Seiten, aber auch die brachten mir nicht den erwünschten Lesespaß, weshalb ich das Buch endgültig abbrach.Die Geschichte an sich ist schon sehr schräg, aber auch durch aus unterhaltsam. Anstrengend wurde es für mich erst als ich bemerkte wie oft auf Ellies Übergewicht und ihre Heißhungerattacken hingewiesen wurde. Besonde
Diesem Buch gab ich 2 Chancen, denn nachdem ich es das erste Mal weg legte, da mich die Geschichte mehr ärgerte, als unterhielt, gab ich mir einen Ruck und las noch weitere 100 Seiten, aber auch die brachten mir nicht den erwünschten Lesespaß, weshalb ich das Buch endgültig abbrach.Die Geschichte an sich ist schon sehr schräg, aber auch durch aus unterhaltsam.
Auch ihr Begleiter Bentley Haskell war mir nicht geheuer, da er sich für etwas besseres hielt, aber sehr durchschnittlich wirkte.Nachdem ich dann zum wiederholten Male auf ihr Gewicht, ihr Aussehen und ihren Heißhunger hingewiesen wurde, erreichte die Geschichte endlich ihren Höhepunkt, in dem ihr Onkel im Testament verlauten ließ, das Ellie abnehmen müsse um ihr Erbe antreten zu können.
Title: The Thin Woman - Ellie Haskell Mystery Book 1Author: Dorothy CannellPublisher: CrimelinePublished: 3-12-2012Pages: 299Genre: MysterySub-Genre: Cozy, Suspense, Family life, British DetectivesASIN: B007IM1818Reviewed For MyselfReviewer: DelAnneRating: 4.25 StarsEllie Simons, Interior Decoration and single woman in need of an escort to a family gathering decides to hire Bentley Haskell from Eligibility Escorts.
Ellie must loose weight and Bentley must write a book of reputable standing ( He has been penning smut literature.) In addition they need to figure out who is sabotaging them and who killed Ellie's Uncle.There are a wide variety of characters, all who seem to have a motive.
