https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/504405.The_Game
He isn’t a “snob” either in that he references periodically through his books other great sports stars in a personal occasional comparison of the NBA, MLB, NFL and there is quite an interesting passage as well that reflects the personality of a goalie.
Jonathan Quick of the Los Angeles Kings was drafted by both the NHL and MLB for his abilities as a player on both the Hockey and Baseball Collegiate teams he played for while attending the University of Massachusetts.
Published in '83, this book assumes that I will have been part of the 70s, part of the 2 channel television world, part of the hockey world.
That assumption lay thickly between me and the words of the book.
I wanted to like this book.
I wanted to learn to like hockey better.
When he talked about The Game, ie, about teams and sports and being an athlete and fans and owners and aging and life, then I was with him.pg 218 on violence in hockey"The NHL is wrong....Anger and frustration can be released  within the rules, by skating faster, by shooting harder, by doing relentless, dogged violence on an opponent's mind, as Bjorn Borg, Pete Rose, and Bob Gainey do.
I don't get it. I really don't. Dryden is not THAT good of a writer, and while there are some magical passages here, and some great descriptions of Montreal and Canada at the time, on the whole the thing is a bit of a slog.Maybe it's cause I don't like the Habs. On to Dave Bidini's hockey books, then.
"A time capsule buried at Maple Leaf Gardens in 1931 and revealed on Thursday (January 26, 2012) contains an NHL rule book, a municipal code, financial information on the team and a tiny carved ivory elephant of mysterious origin."(1)Hockey in all its forms, in all its lore, never fails to captivate many Canadians.
Considering it comes straight from one of the most accomplished players of the sport (written by him, not mediated through an interviewer or ghost writer), the book intrigues and challenges because it's not entirely a celebration of the sport of hockey, but a reverential and at times very troubled examination of it.
Recommended, and for a hockey fan highly recommended.I picked this up last year in a used book shop in B.C. Having read a fair amount of sports books, mostly baseball related, I was eager to check the claim on the cover.Ideas and reflections are loosely slotted into chapters.
The terminology when he talks about teammates may prove unfamiliar to non-hockey fans, but the rest of the book is quite accessible.I read the 20th anniversary edition, which contains an additional chapter covering the end of his last year and a little reflection on how the game changed with Gretzky.
My son and husband are big Habs fans, so this book helped me develop a better understanding of some of the big names they like to throw around. I've also developed enormous respect for Mr. Dryden. He's intelligent and educated, articulate, and of course, an incredible athlete.
Ken Dryden is a great writer and amazing athlete. This book really gives you a glimpse into all aspects of Hockey. A must read for any sports fan and if you’re a hockey fan you’ll really understand the game better afterwards. The whole book really holds up well to the test of time as well.
In one of the greatest sports memoirs across any sport, culture, or generation, legendary goaltender Ken Dryden of the 1970s-era Montreal Canadians takes the reader on a fantastic journey through the life and thinking of a hockey player - especially one as educated and well-versed as Dryden is - in the hit 1983 book “The Game.”As much as “Ball Four” transformed the world of baseball in fascinating tell-all fashion following its publishing in 1970, so does “The Game” shed light on the realm of professional hockey.
I’m sure I’ll take some criticism for saying this, but I just don’t understand why Ken Dryden’s The Game is considered by most to be the best hockey book ever written and by Sports Illustrated to be one of the greatest sports books ever written.
He did win at least three Vezina Trophies for best goalie, which says something, but even then, he levels criticisms at himself in this book that make you wonder how the hell he won the damn things.
Dryden, the player, was a few years before my time, so I can’t say anything about him in that respect.
Nothing against Cornell in particular, but I'm always suspicious when sports writing by Ivy League graduates is praised to high heaven -- raises the risk of George Will/Phil Jackson--style "the game is actually a metaphor for life/politics/community......." essays that get old fast.2.5 Not the author's fault, as it came out in 1983 originally (version I read adds a 20-year follow-up chapter at the end), but the behind-the-scenes-of-a-pro-team diary form, mastered by Jim Bouton in Ball Four, is no longer especially novel or shocking.
Ken Dryden was the star goalie for the team that won the league championship for most of the years in the 1970s.
Ken Dryden has written a very thoughtful book about hockey, not just his personal experience, but the game in general.
Hockey or any sport to those who play it is "the game", and "The Game" is The Game is "something that had to do with an intense shared experience of parents and backyards, teammates and friends, winning and losing, dressing rooms, road trips, fans, dreams, money, and celebrity."It's a fascinating look at behind the scenes of the sport, the Montreal Canadiens, and of the man that played goal.
Both.The goaltender is the hardest and may even be argued as the most important roll in hockey, and when crafting a winning team it's important to have a good, no, great goaltender.
But you don't need to know what the Governors General's Award is to understand that this is a fantastic book, it s fascinating to read the life of a professional goaltender, and to understand what a hockey player goes through on a regular bases.
Ken Dryden's  The Game  has been hailed as the best hockey book ever written and included in Sports Illustrated's list of the top 100 best sports books of all time. While an interesting and insightful look at NHL hockey, its age may now hamper those accolades.[return][return]For those unfamiliar with him, Dryden played goalie for the Montreal Canadiens, a true hockey dynasty. During Dryden's eight seasons with the Canadiens in the 1970s, the team won the Stanley Cup six times. Dryden does not fi
While an interesting and insightful look at NHL hockey, its age may now hamper those accolades.[return][return]For those unfamiliar with him, Dryden played goalie for the Montreal Canadiens, a true hockey dynasty.
During Dryden's eight seasons with the Canadiens in the 1970s, the team won the Stanley Cup six times.
His references to recent Stanley Cup victories, players and games makes it that much more difficult.
At the time The Game was initially published, these events would be relatively fresh in the minds of hockey fans.
Some 20 years later, though, it is more difficult to keep the times straight.[return][return]Balance of review at http://prairieprogressive.com/?p=738
The Game is considered by many to be the greatest book about hockey ever written, and I can see why.
Dryden’s thought is insightful, reflective, and intelligent; his prose clear, effectively detailed, and well structured.
I found myself making a lot of thoughtful, audible noise while reading this book.
I did find that after about 30 or so pages of reading a day, I got sort of bored and had to stop.
And Dryden’s descriptions and commentary on Scotty Bowman are amazing.
I grew up watching the guy coach the Red Wings, and got more out of his description of Bowman than anyone else.
A salesman that I met in Point Clear Alabama told me about his love for the Montreal Canadians and he asked if I had ever read "The Game" by Ken Dryden.
I would argue that its the best sports book that I've ever read besides tomes on fly fishing that seem to transcend sport and are really stories about life but someone could argue about it with me.
I want to write Dryden and thank him and ask for an autographed picture.
Smart and clear headed and thoughtful about a game that he loves.
I enjoyed the layout of the book, with a personal diary of the 1978-79 season interrupted by Dryden's thoughts on certain players or situations.
Having followed this team religiously as a teen, it was very interesting to get Dryden's behind the scenes perspectives on people like Scotty Bowman and Larry Robinson.
Also interesting is his take on lesser known players like Rejean Houle and Rick Chartraw, and his thoughts on the game in general.
Read The Game and be spoiled for any other sports athlete's autobiography.
His rich descriptions of a period of action, the first intermission and the teammates and coaches who have made his time in the sport so fulfilling are amazing, and I will not dispute that this is the best book ever written about hockey.Sometimes it comes off as stream-of-consciousness rambling, but Ken Dryden is well-spoken/written enough that it's worth reading, and everything has a point or lesson.
Also, the end becomes a rant about the state of hockey circa 1983 (overly violent, grounded in physical might rather than the skill of its players, etc.) but overall it's a heck of a life lesson delivered through the sport of hockey.
Touted as the greatest hockey book ever written I jumped eagerly into its pages.
Dryden is smart, and delivers many quiet insights on players, positions, and the nature of not just hockey, but what it means to play any sport.
Dryden's cerebral nature is manifest throughout and his contemplative style stifles much of the excitement one would get from reading a sport's novel.
By the end, I was left wondering did Dryden's novel receive such high praise b/c book reviewers were just so surprised a hockey player, and a goalie at that, could write a novel that demonstrated intelligence.
Written just after this hall-of-fame goalie retired at 30 years old, future Canadian MP Ken Dryden describes the psychology of hockey in the 1970s. His observations are alarmingly personal and astute, and he is unafraid to wax socio-political about the young men he shares the entire expectations of a city and its an ethnic minority with - an ethnicity he doesn't belong to. His personality sketches are endearing and his views on the institution of the NHL unflinching. Not just a sports book - a relevant commentary, remotely spiritual at times.
This is the best sports book I have ever read. More than a typical jock-tells-anecdotes-for-cash collection, Dryden's memoir is as unusual a sports bio as Dryden was a professional athlete. Dryden is introspective and philosophical, asking questions about himself and the sport that few others would consider, let alone put to page. This is a must-read for every hockey fan, and a great example of how great sports writing can be great writing, full-stop.
Hall of Fame goaltender Ken Dryden's classic meditation on hockey in the 1970s, when his Montreal Canadiens were the class of the league. Dryden, who actually took time off from the Habs to finish his law degree -- absolutely no one takes sabbaticals in this era -- is a big thinker, and the result is a very intimate look at the game and what makes players tick. No other hockey book has since come close to the greatness of 'The Game.'
Fabulous book with such insight into not only the game of hockey and it's roots, but also a peek into the mind of a professional athlete. This book is not only interesting and informative, but beautifully written. I completely enjoyed every page of this book and look forward to reading some of Ken Dryden's other books (and I'm not a big non fiction fan)
it is a superb book. any fan of hockey should read this book.my only qualms were that sometimes he went on these really long tangents that i forgot what we were talking about. but other than that this book reaffirmed why I love hockey so much.
This isn't the version I read, I have it on hardback, yo.a gift from a Canadian friend, helped school me in hockey of yesteryear, insightful look into the life of one goalie, who was smart on and off the ice, a stand up guy, and concerned about more than just the game. You'll see.
Klein and Reif probably put it best when they referred to this book as the New Testament of hockey books. First read this shortly after it came out (I was probably about eight): I'd been hospitalized and my father asked me if I wanted anything to read, to pass the time.
People said this was the must read book for hockey fans. Follows the Habs through one of their championship seasons during their 70's dynasty. I'd like it better if it were about any other team.
Excellent, with the afterward/update particularly worthwhile.
Throughout the autobiography, Ken Dryden states the everday life that a professional hockey player goes through and the path he took to obtain his career.
In this book, Dryden includes the struggles that a hockey player goes through during his career in the NHL.
We do exciting, sometimes courageous, sometimes enobling things like heroes do, but no more than anyone else does.” Ken Dryden explains through this quote and the majority of his book that just because he is a hockey player doesn’t mean that he is better than everyone else.Not only did Ken Dryden focus on humility in his autobiography, but he also focused on time management and hard work.
This was one of the best sports books I've ever read, and such a lucky browsing discovery.
I was looking for a book about sports that I could borrow and read on my phone, without having to wait, and I had just been thinking that there are so many baseball books and why aren't there hockey books?
I had never really considered that, but it fit with what I read about in baseball books, about what it used to be like in the US.
In the legendary goalie Ken Dryden's novel “The Game”, Ken talks about his career with The Montreal Canadiens.
This book is a memoir and talks a lot about hockey history.
Ken goes through his whole life and deeply describes experiences that have shaped his life and his hockey career.
If you aren't a fan of sports than this book isn't great for you because it takes a sports player to understand the experiences that Ken has gone through and talked about in the book.
