https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/944103.The_Palm_Wine_Drinkard
The tallest tall tale ever of what one champion boozer did to get a decent drink.A psychedelic quest as mindbending as Yellow Submarine the film, but written fifteen years earlier and thousands of miles away.A myth told (unusually) in the first-person by a trickster-god-slash-Herculean-hero, with a Taoist-fresh voice like a tarot Fool.Whilst, thanks to one or two other people on Goodreads, I'd already figured that The Palm Wine Drinkard was a book to read because it's fun and interesting and strange - and not [just] in aid of wholemeal-sackcloth reasons like diversity quotas, with which much of the internet pushes/afflicts fiction from African countries - I didn't expect it to like it quite this much, or that I'd find it so funny.Sense of humour is personal, yes, and no-one else has tagged this book as humour - but here it was one of those works during which one feel laughter bubbling under the surface most of the time [except during two or three brutal scenes], then every now and again an audible fit of the giggles erupts.
Dear Mr. Amos Tutuola,When I was a small boy I was told the story of a perfect gentleman who went to a market and returned from it with a girl that followed him.
Of the time I got scared when the lamp was taken away, and my fear disappeared when the light was restored.
Now, I remember those days and I wonder why fear will be here beside me even when the sun shines, and people around me smile.
Those days I was only worried about tomorrow if I hadn't talked my homework, because mother would scold me and my teacher would cane me.
Read this book on the basis that it is impossible to resist chapter titles such as ‘AN EGG FED THE WHOLE WORLD’ and ‘PAY WHAT YOU OWE ME AND VOMIT WHAT YOU ATE’, and for passages of tortured syntax such as: Then my wife asked him how could a man buy a pig in a bag?
But the man replied that there was no need of testing the load, he said that once we put it on our head either it was heavier than what we could carry or not, anyhow we should carry it to the town.
So we stood before that man and his load.
So there's a scene where the evasive Death is being pursued, but he isn't at home, he's in the yam garden. I thought, Candide! There was hope but alas I don't like novels drenched in Folk Lore and the sinuous path never again crackled my imagination. Recommended for friends of The Storyteller or The Hakawati.
Published in 1952, Amos Tutuola's The Palm-Wine Drinkard is the first African novel to be published in English outside of Africa.
It is subtitled "and His Dead Palm-Wine Tapster in the Dead's Town".
Told from the perspective of the "Father of gods who could do anything in this world", it describes his journey for the quest of his dead tapster.
For me, this is the kind of work that would have impressed Coleridge (in terms of my reading experience).
I wish I was competent enough to take in more from this work.
A Nigerian folktale of Tutuola’s own invention, written in Pidgin English.
Like any good folktale, it has the sense that anything can happen; but it improves on the usual model with its particularly easy air of being completely out of control.
It’s been criticized for showing Nigerians as amoral drunkards and witlessly superstitious.
But never mind that, because it’s awesome craziness.
For example:We could not travel on the Deads’ road because of fearful dead babies, etc.We had sold our death to somebody at the door for the sum of £70:18:6d and lent our fear to somebody at the door as well on interest of £3:10:0d per month, so we did not care about death and we did not fear again.
I read this book many years ago.
I had no other work more than to drink palm-wine in my life.
The book tells of the sad demise of our hero’s palm-wine tapster and of the search to find him.
For several pages, one feels one is entering a rather genial world, full of the folksy stories of the kind one might read to children.
Much more than those of the Brothers Grimm or of Hans-Christian Anderson, these stories are harsh and blood-curdling, almost too painful to read.Their major themes are dismemberment, abduction and death.
In some times and places, madmen were viewed with a sort of wary deference.
Were they simply insane, or touched by the hand of God?
You couldn't be sure.
That same sort of holy madness - chilling and funny by turns - infuses every page of this story.
What part is myth and what part is novel?
To pick up this book is to find yourself unexpectedly wrenched from the world and deposited into a dangerous wonderland that almost, but not quite, makes sense.
I wish I'd known years ago how strange and great this book is.
I need some Juju to help me review this!
I don't know of another writer like Tutuola.
The creatures jump out of the woodwork like the good boogers they are: you know they took time to develop, but you weren't conscious of that and now it's as if grandma just fell in your lap, chewing on kibbles 'n' bits between watermelon seeds and strumming a cold pumpkin like a guitar----impressive.
There is a logic if you care to think about it, but it's one from eons past.
And the great thing is that the guy has nothing to prove, nothing to contrive, and no one to impress.
¿Quién?Pues eso hice, queridos míos, correr a la librería y abrir el libro en el primer semáforo (aclaro que en mi pueblo hay tan pocos semáforos que podía haber evitado ese trayecto, pero eso significaba tener que esperar a llegar a casa para leer su primera página).
Y ahí, en ese cruce, medio congelada, leí: “He sido un bebedor de vino de palma desde que tenía diez años.
El bebedor de vino de palma no se devora, se saborea despacito, parándose a reflexionar al finalizar cada capítulo.
A wonderful romp through incredible flights of imagination. Nothing is impossible; everything can happen. Told in the vernacular this story draws you in from the very first page and won't let you put it down. I read it in one sitting. Highly recommended; especially for lovers of traditional stories, fairy tales or just general craziness.
a fantastic dream full of seen and unseen.i'm sure i miss 90% of the Yoruba symbolism in the journey, but it felt delicious anyway.recommended for anyone who knows that magic is real.
I have a great affinity for African literature and the Nigerians like their film making have found a unique way to capture their storytelling.This is exactly what Tutuola is about.
His style is one of a kind, his book reads like the narrator is sitting under a tree retelling a story that happened.
Done deliberately by the author, the language adds to the absurdity of the text but also the wonderful nature of African storytelling.It is a delightfully short book that can be completed within a day.
i had read some Tutuola before this, i was not surprised, but all the invented and fantastic adventures are what could be translations of typical oral tales he had learned from his grandmother and others then written down...i have now read more litcrit on Tutuola, and this deepens my fascination, if only in aspects that might just entertain the reader, that give further sense of the 'bad grammar' contention (as it notes t is free of language and poetics but not so extreme as joyce), and examines his work, his use of common yoruba tales is not 'copying) but how spoken english is rendered more in yoruba grammar, and this book can be seen as no less original than say western riffs on hellenic myths and later victorian insistence on using the 'oedipus complex'...
But soon, I found myself frowning and sighing and "Oh, godding!" Not because of the strange English (in fact, that was the one saving grace of the novel) but because what I realized I was reading was a kind of a fable or folk tale that lacked, completely, any hint of subtext.
I realized I was reading someone's dreams.Have you ever had to sit through the telling of a dream?
Because dreams aren't stories.
And the story of a dream, told in a Kerouac rat-at-tat-tat, without craft or craftiness, is just not worth listening to.
Or reading.
Maybe.
For other books that might better suit the unadventurous Western lib arts educated dabbler and that work with the cosmological idea of a "bush of ghosts," read Helen Oyeyemi or Nnedi Okoroafor.
But I do want to address the egotistical numpties who say stupid things such as "people who like this book are only working out their colonialist guilt." Tutuola books are unique, iconic and magical, and no more primitive than, say, Ulysses.
And it has the great advantage that you will discover very quickly whether or not you like it, and you can always put the book down and leave it for others to enjoy.

The gory descriptions had me cringing and I found some stuff quite demonic (I couldn't read it at night before bed because I was afraid I'd dream of some of the weird ass creatures from the book).
This book is just an extreme version of the Ananse The Spider stories lol.
Amos Tutuola is a great, great writer with a freaky imagination.
Give the book a try if you like out-of-this-world, weird stuff.
African literature enthusiasts swear by this book, and I understand why- Amos Tutuola is an amazing storyteller.
lol).
"PAY WHAT YOU OWE ME AND VOMIT WHAT YOU ATE"
tale ขนาดยาวของคนเขียนชาวไนจีเรีย โดย base จาก folk tale ของชาว Yoruba หลายๆเรือง เนือเรืองเลมนีเกียวกับคนทีวันๆดืมแต Palm Wine วันหนึง tapster ทีทำหนาทีเสริฟไวนใหเขาตกตนไมตาย เขาเลยออกเดินทางตามหา tapster คนนี ไปเจอคนทีใหเขาทำภารกิจนูนนี โดนหลอกเขาไปในเมืองตางๆ อยาง red-town ทีมีแตสิงมีชีวิตสีแดง เมืองคนตายทีเดินถอยหลัง เจอสัตวประหลาดบนเขา ใหตัดสินคดีแปลกๆ โดนบูชายัญ ฯลฯเปนการใชภาษาทีแปลกๆ อาจพูดไดวาไมมีวรรณศิลป แมจะทำใหอานงายแตกทำใหโครงสรางประโยคเยินเยอและสับสนในบางชวงพอสมควร จุดนีเอง ทำใหในตอ
tale ขนาดยาวของคนเขียนชาวไนจีเรีย โดย base จาก folk tale ของชาว Yoruba หลายๆเรื่อง เนื้อเรื่องเล่มนี้เกี่ยวกับคนที่วันๆดื่มแต่ Palm Wine วันหนึ่ง tapster ที่ทำหน้าที่เสริฟไวน์ให้เขาตกต้นไม้ตาย เขาเลยออกเดินทางตามหา tapster คนนี้ ไปเจอคนที่ให้เขาทำภารกิจนู่นนี่ โดนหลอกเข้าไปในเมืองต่างๆ อย่าง red-town ที่มีแต่สิ่งมีชีวิตสีแดง เมืองคนตายที่เดินถอยหลัง เจอสัตว์ประหลาดบนเขา ให้ตัดสินคดีแปลกๆ โดนบูชายัญ ฯลฯเป็นการใช้ภาษาที่แปลกๆ อาจพูดได้ว่าไม่มีวรรณศิลป์ แม้จะทำให้อ่านง่ายแต่ก็ทำให้โครงสร้างประโยคเยิ่นเย้อและสับสนในบางช่วงพอสมควร จุดนี้เอง ทำให้ในตอนแรกเราอ่านสนุก แต่พอซักพักเริ่มเหนื่อยไปกับเรื่องด้านคนแต่งก็ออกมายอมรับในจุดนี้เหมือนกัน ดังที่เขาเล่าประวัติตัวเองไว้ท้ายเล่ม ตัวเขาเรียนเก่งแต่ไม่มีโอกาสและทุนทรัพย์ในการเรียนหนังสือ แอบคิดว่าไม่งั้นงานของเขาอาจออกมาแบบ Chinua Achebe ก็เป็นได้ แต่ถ้าเป็นอย่างนั้นเราก็คงไม่ได้อ่านเรื่องราวนิทานของคน Yoruba แบบนี้3.5/5
which were still on it."Amos Tutuola begins the transcription of African oral literature with a sprawling and entirely unpredictable account of the Father of All Gods traveling for more than a decade--mostly in the company of a wife that he picks up along the way--in search of his prodigiously skillful (and lamentably deceased) palm-wine tapster.
How do you devote just three sentences out of 130 pages to the time that you transformed yourself into a canoe in order for your wife to make lunch money by using you as a passenger vehicle?"The Palm-Wine Drinkard" reads like a compendium of folklore.
Interesting book with a fabulous, unique style that melds Yoruban folktales with contemporary life in a classic "there and back again plot structure" that revolves around drinking wine.
The short tales themselves are hit-or-miss; Tutuola's protagonist suffers, as does Superman and the RAMAYANA's Rama, from a sort of plot immortality that means we read almost exclusively for descriptions.
His arrival in Dead Man's town toward the end of book is particularly wonderful.
It retains his wonderful use of English and mingles in a bitterness about his lot that is a strong contrast to his immortal lead - though we know while reading it that Tutuola had his own improbable, happy ending ahead.
This is sort of like what the Odyssey might have been like had Homer been going through delerium tremens. The main character likes to do nothing more than sit around and drink copious amounts of palm-wine. When his palm-tapper dies, he goes on an epic quest to retrieve him from the land of the deads. I don't know which parts of the story are Tutuola's and which are standard folk tales, but in any case what follows is a strange and twisting story following the hero through a series of encounters with vicious beasts and supernatural beings. Imaginative and grim.
This might be the freshest thing I've read in years. Bizarrely, it's also exactly what I've wanted out of fiction for a while now: brain-mincing syntax, absolute rejection of any sort of convention, complete honesty to vision. Tutola's matter-of-fact phrasing, coupled with his impossible to anticipate narrative coalesce into an experience not unlike a lucid dream: you're aware that you're beyond the looking glass, you can pull back at any time you want, and yet you don't, you press further.Beyond incredible.
I could also comment on the novelty of the oral structure, but that smacks too much of the average white person's reaction to Their Eyes Were Watching God to indulge.In closing, I look forward to reading My Life in the Bush of Ghosts in the future, especially since it functions as prequel to TPWD, but I hope I come across a half dozen or so treatises and/or other forms of analyses/explications/contextualizations of various scenes of Yoruban folklore in the meantime.
I'm sure a number of small animated pieces of various scenes of this work exist across the grand hub of the Internet, but I'm not sure if viewing them would enhance my engagement at all.
The narrative then tells the tale of the tragic demise of the palm wine tapster of the hero, and the search to find him, which acquires the atmosphere of a Yoruban Odyssey.
This single narrative of a search for the tapster holds together a sequence of folk tales that have diverse trajectories, like the episodes in the Odyssey.
The book tells of the sad demise of our hero’s palm-wine tapster and of the search to find him.
For several pages, one feels one is entering a rather genial world, full of the folksy stories of the kind one might read to children, but this impression soon vanishes.
thank you for shipping my personal lungs to me i love them so much they are so shiny and i'm going to hang up just over the heartland and there will be one million mountain creatures inside them and for once i'm so glad there are titles to these sections.
i wish my body parts had titles like that.
there a man in here who hires other people's body parts to be his for a while.
there are a million skulls that run after a woman and it sounds like petrol drums crushing.
Starts out amazing, like a West African Brautigan. But somewhere around page 40 the abstract and haphazard storytelling, the pointlessness, the fact that you can skip 5 or 10 pages and, really, not miss anything vital... well, it all began to wear plenty thin. Finally I just got bored and didn't finish.
The first third was the most metal thing I've ever read. The rest was okay but not as good as all the skulls and death.
