https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77012.April_Morning
Gut wrenching events leading to the raw revolutionary war.
It seems to be a nice edition, apart from a few odd typos ('"We'd never sleep a peaceful night again – not ever again, no V"'); the cover art is stark and attractive.April Morning is the story of about thirty-six hours in the life of fifteen-year-old Adam Cooper, a farm boy in Massachusetts living a placid life with his domineering father, Moses, and his sweet mother, sharp grandmother, and typical-pain little brother.
I've come across surprisingly little fiction centered on the Revolution (there's my beloved Sherwood Ring, and I need to read Johnny Tremaine again one day), and I'm glad of a story that illuminates a corner of a period of history I know less about than I'd like to.
It’s the eve of the Revolutionary War and the British Army is on the march to Concord to seize the munition stores of the colonists.Having been warned of the impending arrival of the Redcoats, the town committeemen call all able-bodied men to town to make a stand.
From there, the reader follows Adam as he joins the rest of the men in harassing the British column as it marches from Concord back to Boston.This story gives puts you in the thoughts of a young man who until this day had a quiet life where his biggest problems were trying not to disappoint his father and dealing with his annoying little brother.
Once I got past all of the necessary character building of teenage angst and adults being jerky and not understanding of those darn kids, it got better.
I think the history of the initial battle scene may have been slightly altered for a more dramatic telling, but not in a horrible, I can't believe the author did that way.I think the author did a very good job showing how so much can change in just one 24 hour day.
The beginning got under my skin with the teenager behavior, but it was true to life and did a good job to set the stage of the main characters in the book.
Literally the worst book I have ever read. But still a better love story than Twilight.
Talk about "Don't judge a book by its cover".
The story was impossible to follow, and at times, I wanted to just give up on the book, but since we were forced to, my friend and I had no choice but to keep reading.
The book got better at one part, and then got worse almost instantly.
Howard Fast had one problem with this book: Character development.
I don't know how it could be an all-time bestseller, unless people gave up in the middle of the book and decided to give it this award.
The book was confusing overall.
Historically it recounts the morning of April 18-19, 1775 and the first battle of the Revolutionary war.
We have the teenage angst of a boy feeling unloved by his father, who is a strict disciplinarian.
Adam is confused by his feeling and his desire for independence from his father.
Word has come down that the British are coming and men and boys run to sign up to stand against the redcoats.
Adam's father allows him to sign up and in the course of one day the boy grows into a man after encountering war and loss.
Loved this book. It really helped me see the Revolution from the ground level, even though it was through a work of fiction.
April Morning by Howard Fast is a historical fiction book with 202 pages.
Adam Cooper, a 15 year old boy lives in Lexington, Massachusetts in the 1770s when tensions with the British are heating up.
one night a lone rider comes to town and warns the people of Lexington that British forces are coming.
The town reverend and the townsmen decide to sign a muster that lets people volunteer to fight the British if it comes to that.
The muster gathers about 70 people including Adam and his father Moses.
That being said, Howard Fast barely does anything to emphasize this theme at all.
Howard Fast was a renowned author known for his novels and short stories including April Morning, The Crossing, and Spartacus.
The main character Adam is very relatable and I could actually see myself doing many of the things that he did throughout the book like going off to war with his dad and protecting his younger brother.
The novel does give an interesting first person view of the Battles of Lexington and Concord and further illustrates many of the motivations the citizens of these towns had.
Overall, I would suggest the book to history buffs who want a different view on the Revolutionary War but other than that I would avoid it.
The American Revolution was arguably one of the most important events to grace this world in modern times, and, thus is written about. Howard Fast’s April Morning is certainly an interesting take on it, written from the point of view of a teenager who finds himself at the center of the first fight of the war, at Lexington and Concord. Despite its flaws, I find it to be an interesting novel and would recommend it. April Morning is about a fifteen-year-old named Adam who lives in the small town of
Howard Fast’s April Morning is certainly an interesting take on it, written from the point of view of a teenager who finds himself at the center of the first fight of the war, at Lexington and Concord.
Even though this is probably a less than stellar portrayal of the Battle of Lexington and Concord, and the aforementioned problems the novel has, the story makes up for it.
Otherwise, the book may seem anticlimactic or boring for readers, and it may seem like a waste of time, 	In conclusion, I personally enjoyed April Morning, but can easily see why many would not.
The book is about a young man named Adam growing up in Revolutionary War time in Lexington Massachusetts in the year 1775.
The main characters of the book are Adam Cooper (protagonist), Moses Cooper (Adam’s father and a town leader), Sarah Cooper (Adam’s mother), Levi Cooper (Adam’s brother), Ruth Simmons (Adam’s girlfriend), and Solomon Chandler (a British soldier Adam meets along the way and befriends).
Another conflict is Adam trying to gain his father’s approval and prove to his father and himself that he is no longer a young boy.
I recommend this book to young men growing up that like a good action and adventure novel.
One of the most beautiful books written, a story of how we foolishly go into war without understanding what it is going to do to us, or get caught up in war because our leaders do not realize that those who would bring war to us are merely greedy and have a sense that everything should belong to them.
Or all to often we are lead into war by leaders who are greedy and think that all things should belong to them.
Howard Fast coaxes the reader to care about Adam Cooper and the men who struggled to maintain their rights.
There are many things to be said for this short novel (it spans the time of one day and is just over 200 pages long) but perhaps the most compelling indicator of its worth is its readability.
A reader can get through this book in one day.
This fact has more to do with the story than the size of the novel.
Howard Fast wrote a timeless book worthy of any reader's attention.
This book takes place during Colonial America at the start of the Revolutionary War. It tells the beginning of the war, the very first shot.
The only thing this book was good for was telling people how gruesome war can be.
For such a short book about the grand total of one day, the author draws it out, page by page, word by agonizing word until all you want to do is close it, but you can't because if you don't finish it you will have nothing for your history book report book.
I liked April morning, but I thought it too sad when his father died, which was only a few days after Adam found out his father didn't hate him, and only hours after his father told his mother how impressed he was with Adam, signing up for the militia, and looking more like a man then ever.
When the British officer got his brains all over the wall, I stopped reading for the night and was afraid I was gonna have nightmares, but I didn't.
I wish some one would write a historical fiction book about the whole revolution, and not just the battle of Lexington and Concord.
I would honestly not recommend this book to anyone that I know; I say this because it was not really intriguing, it spent a lot of time on things that were not really worthy of spending as much time on as the author did.
This book could have been great; the entire idea could have been really neat, but the author ruined it by adding all this romance and stories from at home that turned out to be insignificant towards the whole story.
Turns out he wasn't even relevant to the story.
But what little time it spent on things that were barely even close to being relevant it wasn't half bad.
The author takes me to a long ago time, a faraway place.
I care about this family, this boy, these people.
I am desolated when they begin the battle, but I can understand why it went that way.
I'm cheering at the end of the day, and crying with the community at the loss of so many good men.The entire book takes place in only a 24-hour period.
It's the beginnings of the American Revolution, 1775.
I descend from people who survived that conflict.
Now I begin to understand their struggle for my freedoms.
There's always that thing that happens to you when you have to read a book for school.I mean, I bet I would have absolutely adored Ender's Game, if it hadn't been for school. I'm pretty sure that The Outsiders is the only reading for school that I did that I actually enjoyed. I'm not going to do a review or whatever for this because, really? Who the actual fuck would?It sucked.I didn't even pay attention to the second half of this book because I was just reading to get rid of the pages.So bye.
The worst war book I've ever read. I had to read this back in Middle School as an assignment in English. It didn't look that bad. But then I started reading it. It was terrible. Boring story, unlikable characters, I was about ready to toss this in the garbage bin before remembering it was the school's book.
Great book until after Lexington. It then becomes a bit more conventional and certainly less evocative. The first half though is masterful. Do yourself a favor though, and find a copy of "The Unvanquished." Still the best historical fiction book on the American Revolution.
Works well as a cross-curricular novel with SS. Told from the point of view of Adam, a fifteen-year-old boy, so connects well with middle schoolers. Has some parts that are exciting & action-packed; other parts are way too slow.
This is probable one of the best books I have ever read about the thoughts and feelings of the young men who fought in the Battle of Lexington. I would definitely recommend it to anyone in love with Historical books!!
I'm due for a re-read. This book amazed and horrified me as a child--an anodyne to the notion that wars are romantic and bloodless affairs.
Historical fiction is cool because it takes these historical events that you've studied from a birds eye view, on a map in some textbook, and gives life to it - takes you into a narrative ground-level experience.
Imagining what that day must have been like for the colonists is a gut-wrenching experience.
It's certainly a child-friendly book, in that a lot of the violence was toned down and the main character never even takes life during the whole of the fighting.
Although time spent with some of the characters is short, they were developed quite interestingly.
The whole story takes place in only a few days (making the story progression relatively slow compared to most novels) , and is set in the pre-revolutionary time period of the present United States.
Lastly I feel that this novel is comparable to most revolutionary war books, I would say the author’s style is very unique, and again, if you get bored easily it might not be such a quick read.
Overall I enjoyed the book, but I feel that it would be best read over a longer period of time than what I allotted for it.
I was rather disappointed in this coming of age story centered around the events of April 19th, 1775 in Lexington, Massachusetts. Fifteen year old Adam Cooper is faced with becoming a man overnight, when conflict break out between his townsmen and the British army. The book began promisingly, but the plot was slow and didn't progress beyond the basic premise. The characters were underdeveloped and somewhat unbelievable as period personas. Perhaps worse, the history of April 19th, 1775 and the conflict was inaccurate.
This is the American Revolution day 1 day-in-the-life told from the perspective of a young man turning the page to manhood as his family and neighbors make the decision to stand against the British army. It will transport you in time to experience the emotions and impact this decision had on parents, siblings, girlfriend, relatives and others the young man knew and loved. I believe I gained a greater appreciation for the courage, fears, and sacrifices by the farmers who became the soldiers that would lead to the independence and birth of the United States of America.
First read this book over 42 years ago as a freshman in school.
Took a test on it and got a grade, moved on and the only retention was that I read the book.
Just finished it again and believe I retained more this time around than the first.
With the few battle scenes described by the author and the reference to scriptures from the Bible, doubt they would still allow this in schools today.
Thanks to Mrs Wise for introducing us to good literature when we didn't know it and now wished the author would of written a sequel to it.
We read this book in school. It was really boring. My teacher loved it and was super excited while we were reading it. She obsessed over the romance between Ruth and Adam. She was in tears over some of the deaths. She said we weren’t paying attention to important details that make the book quality such as Adams relationship with his father and the other characters. Overall I found the boring and I would never recommend it to anyone.
