https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16138688-the-painted-girls
To be quite honest, I have been sitting on my review of The Painted Girls for a few hours as I attempt to collect my thoughts so I can put into words why this book was such a disappointment in my eyes.
Set in the late 1800s in Paris, the details of the life, the smells, the streets, the art, and the Opera are stunning; they are the kind of words that can transport a reader to another place in time, so I give Buchanan plenty of praise for that.
I found this book to be sad and disturbing for most of the story.
Rather, it depicts the seedier side of Paris ,as the story of Antoinette and her sister Marie is told.
The author’s web page included images of Degas’ works that are incorporated in the story and I found it worth looking at after I read the book (www.cathymariebuchanan.com/art).While it was sad and disturbing, I gave it 4 stars because there was not a minute that I wasn’t interested in knowing the fate of these girls.
There's lessons and clothing to buy.And whatever money they do manage to scrape together, there's no guarantee their mother won't use it to buy another bottle to feed her addiction.The Painted Girls is about the haunting specter of abject poverty and addiction, but it is also about phrenology, a now-defunct science wherein experts believed they could judge the character of a person based on the shape of their head and face.Marie, one of the girls in this story, frets because she has a low forehead and a jutting jaw.
I was fortunate to get an ARC of THE PAINTED GIRLS.
It is a brilliantly written historical fiction set in Paris in the 1880's.
A story about the lives of sisters trying to make their way through life under less than ideal circumstances.
Do the girls have control over their destiny or is it fate that delegates their position in life?
Intertwinning the tale of the sisters' lives and true facts from historical documents, paintings, ballets, plays, sculptures, murder trials and more this notion is explored.
A true page turner!
This book filled with sister love and rivalry had me hooked from beginning to end.
Their mother and Charlotte are so one dimensional that there seems to be little reason for them to even exist except to use them as foils (Charlotte, the one good girl who makes a life for herself with the Opera) or to point to the fate that the two elder seemed doomed to.I was intrigued by the premise of the interactions with Degas, but we got no real insight there.
But when you fail to develop the characters that all falls apart.And finally - the endless POV switching got real tiresome, especially at the end of the novel when each sister was getting less than a page between switches.
This is a magnificent and magical book, which I have been privileged to see in proof form. You will never see Degas' dancers the same way after you read this book.

Although other reviews make note of this slow start and indicate that the novel improves with time; I simply don’t have the patience to wait that long as nothing caught my attention in the mean time.
However, the characters are too juvenile in both their actions and storytelling which makes sense as they are children in the story, but this causes the whole “feel” of “The Painted Girls” to be better suited as a YA novel.
I couldn’t continue further.“The Painted Girls” seems to be enjoying rave reviews (although highly promoted books always have a certain level of suspicion) and therefore, maybe I am the one to blame.
Jer sjaj korica ove knjige apsolutno se može "opravdati" sjajem priče koju nam je autorica napisala nakon iscrpnih priprema i istraživanja likova i perioda opisanih u knjizi.Dakle, iako je priča smještena u pariško "zlatno doba" naši likovi nisu bonvivani, ne posjećuju razuzdane zabave već jedva preživljavaju na marginama društva; to su siromašne djevojčice koje se bore za egzistenciju, pralje, zločinci, kurtizane, a u većini slučajeva radi se o stvarnim povijesnim osobama koje su, na ovaj ili onaj način ostavile svoj trag u vremenu.Radnja prati tri sestre van Goethem, Antoinette, Marie i Charlotte.
Here are excerpts from my review in the Washington Post, Jan. 22, 2013: Edgar Degas’s wax-and-fabric statuette “Little Dancer Aged Fourteen” has held the curiosity of millions in its 28 bronze reproductions, but far fewer know the heart-rending history of the model, Marie van Goethem, and her sisters.
Living in the slum of lower Montmartre, the girls aspire to be dancers at the Paris Opera Ballet, a resource for urchins to save themselves from life on the streets by turning their legs out, balancing en pointe, leaping and spinning.
Marie, unattractive and exceptionally skinny, is harder-working, achieves short-lived success and poses for Degas’s statuette at age 14.
Three sisters, a mother addicted to absinthe, and the girls using ballet as a means to make a little money and hopefully a way to better themselves.
This was the part of the novel I liked best, the way the sisters tried to take care of each other.
Marie, the middle girl, end up modeling for Degas, makes a little extra money and makes some very bad decisions.
Degas, the arts, ballet, theater are all added bonuses.
The tone is dark, this is the darkside of the glamour we think of when we think of dance,theater and art.
I like knowing what people are reading, and increasing my chances of being able to discuss books with anyone I meet.
Given that a lot of what I also read is obscure, classics, or science fiction, it seems like a necessary ingredient in my overall reading mix.It has also, on occasion, been disappointing.
I've read those books that make me arch an eyebrow and go "Wait, this is a bestseller?
Well, I have to tell you, this is one of the best bestsellers I've read in a while.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.

At first I was simply delighted that a fictional backstory for Edgar Degas' model for "Little Dancer, Fourteen Years" exists.     This novel mixes facts from Degas' life plus lots of historically-based insight into the career prospects of les petite rats de l'Opera,  those skinny little teen waif dancers. (Prospects were poor: the tiny dancers were impoverished, underfed, overworked, and especially vulnerable to exploitation by male "patrons.") But ultimately the novel is disappointing because t
At first I was simply delighted that a fictional backstory for Edgar Degas' model for "Little Dancer, Fourteen Years" exists. 
  
    

This novel mixes facts from Degas' life plus lots of historically-based insight into the career prospects of les petite rats de l'Opera,  those skinny little teen waif dancers. (Prospects were poor: the tiny dancers were impoverished, underfed, overworked, and especially vulnerable to exploitation by male "patrons.") But ultimately the novel is disappointing because the fictional conclusion is so very predictable. Don't give us a story we could guess for ourselves.
Found a good list where I noticed this book and a few others.
Did not know much beforehand, cause lately I prefer not to know a thing before I read a book, but that is quite hard because I do want to know I'm not reading a western or porn for that matter.
*-* So yes, you have to read a little bit of the description but sometimes there are benefits of being so forgetful and that comes with my reading.
I can re read a book easily and read part of a description and the next day I will have forgotten.
haha.Anyway, I highly recommend if you enjoy a good written dark historical fiction book.
I loved the book and was thrilled to be able to meet the author when she came to my local Barnes and Noble for a reading.This novel is very different from 'The Day the Falls Stood Still'.
I felt the alternating narration worked against the cohesiveness of this story in the beginning, but I think it was perfect for the unfolding of the end of the story.
For me the story really picked up in the last third of the novel, I felt like the ending of the book really redeemed the beginning of it and I was so glad I didn't give up reading this story.
Onvan : The Painted Girls - Nevisande : Cathy Marie Buchanan - ISBN : 1594486247 - ISBN13 : 9781594486241 - Dar 357 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2012
I was fortunate to receive an advanced reading copy of this book at a conference I attended.
When you read a book and feel satisfied and content at the way things turned out, that is my definition of a great book.
I was drawn immediately to the characters and the setting and loved them.
I loved the author's use of two characters to share two different (and yet not so different) views of some of the same events.
I appreciated the way reviews of the sculpture from when it was first exhibited were woven into the book.
This book starts with a quote from Le Figaro, 1880 "No social being is less protected than the young Parisian girl--by laws, regulations and social customs." And the author goes on to prove that true.This book melds together a sensational murder and trial with the beauty and love of ballet, the masterpieces of Edgar Degas as well as other period artists, along with the extreme hardships suffered by poor sisters in the 1880s.
It tells of these sisters need to be loved by others as well as each other.
It also follows the real model for Edgar Degas work "Little Dancer Aged Fourteen".
Not very long ago I attended an exhibition of Edgar Degas' work, with the centre piece being the little statuette of the 14 year old ballerina, modelled by Marie van Goethem.
News items of the time are woven into the tale, and there are cameo appearances of famous people such as the author Émile Zola whose book L'Assommoir has a prominent role in this novel.
The author bases this novel on fact, but skillfully fictionalises various aspects of the story.
It had me scurrying to my Art Authority app to once again view Degas's masterpieces.
I had a chance to read advance copy of this book! From the point of view of two sisters in 1878 Paris. The detailed description of sister's experiences are so vivid and fascinating. The author Cathy Marie Buchanan taken us into the lives of these two sisters. Great read!
There's a bit of a mystery at the heart of this, but to me, I honestly felt this was a story of women and their never-ending struggle to be loved, respected, and successful.
Charlotte wants to be successful.
One is a whore to love.
One is a whore because in the end, despite all she does, she's left with nothing else.
One is a whore in order to succeed, and in the end it's utterly sad.Though very true to the era it's penned about, I had a hard time with Antoinette's story.
So, The Painted Girls came at the right time.
I was completely taken with the story and the voices of the two sisters.Taking place in Paris in from 1878 to the early 1880s, the book is told from the points-of-view of Antoinette and Marie, sisters.
Marie is the subject of Edgar Degas famous statue Little Dancer Aged Fourteen.
And the writing in The Painted Girls perfectly captures the period and the city.This was a great historical fiction novel, and books like this is why I read historical fiction novels.
I absolutely loved this novel.
The book is written from the point of view of two sisters in Paris, 1878.
Often when there are two voices in a book I will gravitate to one and find myself rushing through the other.
It would be unusual to say that a city could become a character in a book but late 1800's Paris, so masterfully described, was such a pivotal part of this novel that it should share a spot amongst the other unforgettable characters.
I will never look at a Degas painting or sculpture or attend the ballet without thinking of this book and the characters that came to life between the covers.
I loved this book! The Painted Girls by Cathy Marie Buchanan is a richly detailed story portraying the dark netherworld behind the pretty tutus in Edgar Degas’ paintings. The story seamlessly shifts between the perspectives of the two van Goethem sisters, Antoinette and Marie (Degas’ muse for Little Dancer Aged Fourteen). Reading it, I fell completely into Paris, 1879, and the world of the “petit rats” struggling to elevate their lives through the arduous work of ballet. Heartbreaking, lyrical, beautiful and a very satisfying read. It's coming out in January, watch for it!The Painted Girls: A Novel
I just finished an advanced copy of this book.
Wow!
Be prepared to be fully engaged.
The author brings the emotions of the characters to life-I felt their shame, their despair, their disbelief, their hope.
I am not so interested in ballet, but I found myself enjoying the descriptions of dance in the book because they evoked just such emotion.
I loved Ms Buchanan's first book, THE DAY THE FALLS STOOD STILL and I found this one very different and loved it even more.
A great read for anyone interested in historical fiction, particularly of this time period.
I was thrilled to read The Painted Girls in manuscript, and I loved every page of it. Cathy's wonderful and vivid writing puts you right in the streets of Paris and into the lives of these compelling and memorable sisters. This story will stay with you long after you've finished the book.
Told in alternating points of view, Antoinette and Marie learn the hard way how young girls in Paris get ahead in life, that love is not always what it seems, and ultimately there are no short-cuts to getting the life you want.The really cool part of this story was that is was based on the actual life of Marie van Goethem, the 14 year old girl who posed for Edgar Degas for the statuette La Petite Danseuse de Quatorze Ans. Little is known about her life and much speculation is made about her relationship with Degas, but it was an interesting side note in art history that I enjoyed reading about and then doing a little relationship on my own.However, I think the author tried to bring in too much historical fiction to fill in the gaps of Marie and Antoinette's lives.
In the late 1870’s a student of the Paris Opera Ballet dance school named Marie van Goethem modeled for Edgar Degas.
Marie was the subject of the famous Little Dancer of Fourteen Years statue.
Marie lived with her two sisters and mother in a desperate poverty.
Author Buchanan has taken the few known facts about Marie van Goethem and constructed the novel around those facts.
One of the more interesting themes running through the novel was that according to a popular to "scientific" theory of the day, facial and cranial features could reveal a genetic tendency toward the criminal.
Also venturing into the realm of the belief that a person’s heredity and physical appearance determine what sort of person they will become – a poor, ugly person highlighting an ugly, vicious personality while a handsome or rich person more likely to be good natured – it was interesting to see the two sisters battle with their own personal demons to determine what sort of person they would become.Beautifully written, The Painted Girls is a story of opposites: meek vs.
