https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18419.The_Kissing_Hand
Sweet story about growing pains and missing those we love.
Chester doesn't want to go to school, he will miss his mother.
It's a great idea that the mother comes up with.
She kisses his hand and tells him the kiss will stick all day.
You carry the energy of that love with you all day and it's a reminder that we can all do that.I remember school felt long as a child.
The kids here love their parents dearly and they are also extraverts.
The nephew still liked this book and he had his mother kiss his hand because he liked it.
This book was a special favorite of my daughter, Sarah. For several months, I read this to her almost every night, often kissing her hand to say goodnight. Even now, my eyes are misty thinking of those wonderful evenings and how tiny Sarah was.The best books are those that have wonderful memories attached to them.
Beautiful story for preschoolers and young school age children. A wonderful sentiment set to ease a child's fear about being away from his/her parents and home. My girls are 7, 9, and 10, and they all loved it! Thanks for the rec, KatLynne!
“The Kissing Hand” is another wonderful, well-known children's story I discovered.
“The Kissing Hand” is the most famous work by all of them and I understand why.
I enjoyed the drawings and words, to the tune of five stars.A friend commented that the short length of this story is inclined to tiny children but that it has a sophistication that raises it to higher levels.
His Mom kisses his hand and tells Chester that he can keep the love it generated permanently.
Delving deeper, the astuteness of differentiating nocturnal animals is clever and so are the illustrations.
The moral is sound that things turn out all right, even if we are nervous about them.
This is a sweet story with gorgeous illustrations.The premise is that the love between those we love and those who love us doesn’t go away even when we’re not in their presence.
It is a touching story though and worth reading for the sentiment expressed.It’s also worth reading for the beautiful illustrations.
The foreword states this book is useful for children going through any kind of challenging separation and mentions children who are in foster care, residential care, experiences the death of a parent, and starting school or in the hospital.
This is such a cute book! i love the concept of how his mom will always be there with him if he misses her he can just put his palm on his cheek and he will feel better. The book also shows how children will mimic or model after the people around them like how chester gave his mom a kissing hand too. I wish my mother did something like this when i had anxieties of going to school. :)
A very sweet children’s book. It tells the tale of a little critter who is scared and nervous about going to school for the first time. His mom allays his fears by telling him that she’ll always be with him if he’s scared, through the magic of the kissing hand.
My 4 year son does not want to go to preschool, and this book has helped tremendously with tear free drop offs.
And being the cry at anything mother I am, at the end of the book I was choking back tears as he tells her the same thing.
My son's preschool teacher has made a stuffed Chester the class pet and does many activities with the raccoon and the book.
Every morning we go through the Chester ritual and I thank this book and his teacher for helping us both cope!
A beautiful, touching story about how we always hold the love of those closest to us, even when we cannot see them. I adore the idea of the "kissing hand" and, though this book may have become a bit "commercialized" with the accompanying stickers, the heart of the tale is pure and one that I think many children (and adults) can relate to.
This book can be used for many ways inside the classroom such as first day jitters, a new child and family joining the center or a child who is having a hard time coming back from vacation. They will know that their caregiver is always with them when they need it.
Back when I was five years old, I never wanted summer to end. I wish my grandma had read this book to me before she took me to school on my first day to make me feel better. My best friend’s mother recommended this book to me as one she used to read to her own children and the message within the storyline continues to resonate around her entire family.  Audrey Penn’s ‘The Kissing Hand’ deals with the issue of separation anxiety many children face when starting school as this is often the first
Audrey Penn’s ‘The Kissing Hand’ deals with the issue of separation anxiety many children face when starting school as this is often the first and longest separation they have experienced from their parents or primary caregivers.
Before publication in 1993, Audrey Penn had already read this story to many children in schools, libraries and children’s hospitals.
In the classroom, children between the ages of four to six can interpret their own meaning from the story and paint their own handprints in art activities, or listen to the book as an aid in the transition period between the Early Years and Key Stage one.
It means "sentimental in a feeble or sickly way." and "saccharine" (like fake sugar) which mean "excessively sweet or sentimental.Well I disagree.
I know...be still my beating heart, but I going with a solid 4 1/4 stars.
The story was sweet without it being sappy, sorry, I have read 'saccharine' books and I just didn't get that from this book.
All of a sudden it is night and they are going to school which confused me for a quarter of a millisecond.
OF COURSE Raccoon's will go to school at night.
I read The Kissing Hand to him the weekend before school started.
By now, he seems to have no problem leaving me for the day.The story is about a little raccoon that is going off to school but doesn't want to and how his mother shares a secret with him that will help him through the day each time he is missing her.When the book was done and my son ran off to go play, I was left sitting there with huge crocodile tears in my eyes.
This book is about a raccoon that is going to school for the first time.
His mother kisses his palm, then she closes his hand and he takes her love to school with him.This filled with beautiful illustrations.
The pictures do a great job of setting the environment because the one big difference in raccoons going to school is that they are nocturnal so they go to school at night.
I love this book on the first day of school for very young children.
It also illustrates the concept of nocturnal animals and how different it would look if we were awake going to school at night.
I detest the thought of sending my kids off to be in the hands of someone that might possibly think that they are anything less than brilliant, wildly creative, hilarious and compassionate.
When I see kids at the school I work at cry, I ache with wondering how my own kids are doing at their school and these silly little rituals (such as the one in the Kissing Hand) actually come to mind and kind of sort of comfort me as I conjure up pictures of my sweet little daughter abiding by them with fierce loyalty.
This book is a great way to support B-5 students who are new to the classroom. The Kissing Hand allows students to feel comfortable leaving their parents knowing they'll have their love to comfort them. I could incorporate this book on the first day of school and reapply this gesture throughout the school year. This not only helps the students, but the parents can also benefit from the kissing hand knowing their child's love can make them warm inside.
I loved the Kissing Hand. The watercolor illustrations are incredible, just the right amount of detail and still maintain the free flowing beauty of the medium. The story, while simple has a definite story arc which keeps the pages turning. Children should adore this book, reminiscent of How Much Do You Love Me.
I was never that impressed by this book before I became a parent. I find the illustrations and the story a little saccharine. However, my toddler has been experiencing some major separation anxiety lately, and this book really comes into its own in that regard! It's lovely for big or small separations and for easing those transitions.Notes on representation: The characters are all animals.
I can easily see teachers using this book on the first day of school to make students feel more comfortable in their new environment.
I think that this book could also be used in the classroom with the arrival of a new student.
LEARNING EXPERIENCEMaterials Needed*Heart Die cuts with the letters of the alphabet*Hand die cuts with pictures of things that start with each letter of the alphabet.
1. The teacher will lay out the hand and heart die cuts and ask the children to match each die cut to the picture that the letter starts with.
After reading this book the first thing I thought about was my mom.
I real to this book because my mom is all the way in Guam while I'm here going to college.
I think this story is awesome for kids who have trouble separating from their parents.
Beside the main characters being animals, I loved how the illustrations were so vibrant in color.
The illustrator picked colors that blended well and that were also real life-like.
At the end of the story, it shows the sign language sign of "I love you".
So I would use this book in the begining of the school year when some of you class is having a hard time leaving their family.
Its a great way to share a bond with your class, while showing them that other feel the way you can.
Using animals instead of humans catches the children's attention, while still letting them relate to Chester.Activity:During circle time, ask the children if they have have had a time where they were scared to leave their family.
Like stated above I feel this book would be great when starting a new year.
This book is very sweet. I would tell my parents to read this book to their children before school starts. This book shows how brave the mother is when her child goes off to school as well as her child being brave when he goes off to school. Maybe the parents could give their child a kiss jn their hands and that could be a way to cope for the first day of school.
I think this book would be great to read on the first day of school for children who are having trouble being away from their parents. It reminds me of a student I had who always cried when his mom dropped him off and took awhile to warm up. I think that this book would have been helpful for him.
What a sweet story! As little Raccoon gets ready to go to school for the first time, he is worried about missing his mother and all the familiar things he loves. But his mother shows him that he can embrace new experiences and still have her love with him the whole time.
I really enjoyed that this book incorporated night creatures/nocturnal life. The moon was very bright and beautiful, shining its light on the owl, raccoon and other night creatures. This story would be great for making children feel better about leaving loved ones to go to school.
Awwww
Precious!
Little Chester Racoon is anxious about the first day of school so his mother kisses him in the palm of his hand..., er... paws to show him that he will now have that kiss with him all day long. Cute illustrations by Ruth E. Harper Nancy M. Leak
(first published in 1993)I posted the following about this book at my GR group:=================================I first learned about this book during a visit from my grandchildren:The Kissing Hand by Audrey Penn (first published in 1993)Summary from Wiki: "Chester is a young raccoon who is nervous about going to school.
Mommy loves you.'" Chester is comforted and goes to school."See it at YouTube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPUW1...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kXT1A...Wiki page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Kis...What a great idea!Background (from Wiki): "On a train ride in Wheaton, Maryland, Penn witnessed a ritual in which a mother raccoon placed its nose on a baby raccoon's paw, and then the baby raccoon placed its paw on its own face.
If I was a child for me it would be a refreshing for me that no matter what my mom or dad or guardian is always there for me I just have to look in my hand an heart.Learning Experience: My learning experience would be about how to deal with separation from our family or friends.
I would ask the child who is that special person to you the person that always gives you plenty of love no matter what they days is.
So if a child is having a bad day or having some anxiety of separation I would bring the folder out and have them take the picture so they knew that the special person is always there with them no matter what.
