https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175247.The_Highland_Twins_at_the_Chalet_School
This is direct, but never over-the-top, which means it's subtle for a Chalet School story, and that subtlety serves it well: it means even the preposterous ending is tempered and almost feels real.To be more direct myself: this is a book about the costs of war.
Of people losing their homes, and their family members, and their countries.
Oh, this is a simple school story with trademark Brent-Dyer quirks, and yet it's also a warm and understanding piece of writing in a way that feels both very much of a specific time - and timeless.
Coming so soon after the dizzy heights of the Chalet School In Exile, I always found Highland Twins at the Chalet School a little - well - cheesey.
Following the nearly now-traditional format of new girl, new term, the eponymous Highland Twins Flora and Fauna (sorry, Fiona) McDonald are experiencing their first term at the Chalet School.
There is a moment where two old girls arrive at the Chalet School having escaped from Germany and the recounting of their experiences is an emotional surgical strike.
The other part of Highland Twins at the Chalet School which has a deceptively sharp impact is Fiona's ability with "the sight".
Brent-Dyer, being very much at the peak of her authorial powers at this point, handles it well enough for what it is.The shadow of World War II still looms large over the School as the eponymous twins - Flora and Fiona McDonald - arrive for the new term.
She's one of the School's biggest problem students, without a doubt, but Brent-Dyer provides just enough glimpses into her troubled home life to make Betty a living, breathing and very credibly wrongheaded young lady.All in all, Highland Twins makes for a good read.
Before long Flora and Fiona are embroiled in an attempt by a German spy to steal away their map of their island which could give vital clues to secrets and compromise the safety of the nation!Also thrown into the mix, two old girls, German's, have escaped Nazi Germany and made it to the Chalet school for safety.
Their tale compounds the old Chalet School Peace Treaty and brings home the fact that being German does't equal being a Nazi.
The Maynard's, Bettany's Russell's, Bill and Miss Annersley, Rosalie Dene, Simone and Frieda - all old friends that it's lovely to say hello to every now and then!
The Joey and Jack romance has built much more subtly in the original texts and it's as affecting here as it was in 'Exile'; Robin grew up at some point into a believable character; and the Bettany sisters remain dear to each other in fact and not just the telling.
Dear old grumpy, practical Jem. His and Joey's relationship is a highlight every time it crops up, and his affection for her, Madge, and Jack shines through despite his occasionally gruff treatment of all three.)(also: Nazis.
The Nazi-era stories are wholly rounded in unexpected ways for a novel of this kind and it's a marvel to be wondered at, starting with 'Exile'.
I read this book in the original 1942 edition, on the wartime paper of low quality. It presumably belonged to my mother. Even in the ‘50s books weren’t too plentiful so we read them over and over. I liked this one because it had Scottish children in it, with delightful Highland accents, so the alien environment of a boarding school was made less foreign. Having the “second sight” is a useful ability in a troubled age!
I think this is my favorite Chalet School book
EBD isn't really comfortable with this (Miss Wilson goes off to pray while it's going on, making her position very clear) but I think the dramatic possibilities swayed her.We've missed a couple of Chalet years in the gap from Goes to It, so there's some excuse for confusion about who has each vegetable plot, for example, but there are EBDisms a-plenty in this book, from how late the train from Stockport actually was (and why they travelled on the route they did anyway, although I accept that's one for train nerds like myself), to Biddy suddenly getting a new surname.
I thought the basic story of the difficult adjustment to school life that the twins, Flora and Fiona McDonald (of course!), experienced was sensitively handled, and even the way-too-perfect Joey was not terribly intrusive this time.
The part I didn't like in either reading was the unconvincing spy story--it seemed wildly unlikely, although it gave an opportunity for us to see more of the incorrigible Betty Wynne-Davies, causing trouble once again, and this time it is just too much for the long-suffering headmistress to put up with.
Brent-Dyer always does well with her villains and I was gratified to read a bit of Betty's back story.
This was another exciting chalet school book. I thought it was going the usual way of new girls joining the school, a misunderstanding/upsetting someone then something happens and all make up. Not this one! It brought the war right back into the forefront and showed how very one was affected, or could've been. What a dramatic scene with Joey getting the telegram. Another enjoyable read!
Flora and Fiona McDonald make their first appearance in this book. They are twins, who have never left their shelter home on a small island before. Due to the war, they are forced to leave their home, and move to the Chalet School. Joey takes them in under her wing, and she's richly rewarded in the end when one of the twins is able to help her out during one of the toughest times in her life.
A very moving book in the Chalet School series. Flora and Fiona, twins from the Highlands, stay with Jo and family when their home is commissioned by the admiralty. Great excitement, some slight mysticism, and a deeply emotional book. One of the best.
This was one of my favourite "eras" of the Chalet School, and I especially loved the new twins! Great book.
Far too many characters and a bit sentimental, but interesting incidental insights on life in the UK during the war. Implausible plot.
Previously read, but re-read for 2014 challenge Feb 22nd-24th.
4.5 stars. Quiet but one of the best of the series, as others have said. More detailed review later.
