https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26200068-the-life-changing-magic-of-not-giving-a-f-ck
I don't give a f*ck about reviewing this book!
"I was almost thirty when I began to realize it was possible to stop giving so many fucks, but I was nearly forty before I figured out how to make it happen on a grand scale." Personally, I think there is a natural progression to this mindset after living almost four decades on this planet.Knight differentiates between being "an asshole" and putting her philosophy into practice.
Whether you are a beginner, intermediate, or expert no-fuck-giver,  The Life-Changing Magic of Not Giving a Fuck is for people who are exhausted by presenting a façade of interest, enthusiasm, and conformity to the rest of the world.
I took this book's advice and stopped spending time I don't have with an authorial persona I find vaguely irritating reading this parodic self-help guide that offered neither sufficient laughs nor sufficient guidance to merit completing it.
All of the best parts of the book are condensed into this interview, which I suggest you read instead: http://idealog.co.nz/workplace/2016/0...It's a great parody idea and actually the tip that you give your daily task, commitments, and worries and decide which could/should be dismissed or at least minimized is an excellent one.
Also, though I quite enjoy using the word f*ck a lot, turns out I find it rather boring to read repeatedly.
I loved this book!
I really disliked The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing which this book parodies, and was so tired of reading the word "tidy" in it, but if "f*ck" bothers you, you might have trouble with this.
Anyway, I appreciated the philosophy behind it and I do recommend this book.
It's well written and very clever.Just wanted to add that I especially like Sarah's "personal policy" suggestion (see page 86).
To minimize hurt feelings, say you have a personal policy against (and then fill in the blank).
I guess quitting her job was a wake up call, she realized that it was a dead end and needed a change in her life.The day I walked out of my high-rise office building—sliding down that corporate ladder faster than a stripper down the last pole of the night—I eliminated a whole category of fucks I had previously given to supervisors, coworkers, my commute, my wardrobe, my alarm clock, and more.I stopped giving a fuck about Sales Conference.
you Go girl!I have some rules of my own when it comes to giving a fuck about things; I always ask myself does it really matter?
Truthfully, I really liked what Sarah Knight is saying in her self-help book: The Life-Changing Magic of Not Giving a F*ck.
I think I would personally benefit from incorporating some of her suggestions within my life in a stronger sense than I currently do; however, I also think if I followed this book to a T, I would feel selfish and self-centered versus an individual with healthy boundary-setting skills.
I don't think that is the author's intention, and to be clear, this is only my perception of how I think I would personally feel.
As with all self-help materials out there, use what you're comfortable with and let the rest go.
I find Sarah Knight's work boring and contrived...Each page is a bloodless artifice... and she goes on about it for the sake of it... to fill, pad, word count the pages... It is a collection of dry musings... I'd rather have a safe drop on my head...Chris Roberts
I wanted to like this book, I really did. But I didn't give a F*&k about it. Luckily, the author won't care what I say about it since not caring about criticism is part of her credo. It could have been good, but she uses f*$%k so often (several times per page) that the novelty wears off. The usage doesn't work very well either, in my opinion. Here's just one sentence: There are a lot of f%$ks that impose on your time or energy, if not your wallet. See what I mean?
Only 3 stars for writing and overuse of the F word. I have no objection to the word, but 20 or 30 times per page is a little repetitive. However, the content was excellent. Written as a parody of Marie Kondo 's book about tidying up your home, Knight advises us to tidy up our mental space and stop caring what other people think. There are exceptions, (family, boss, close friends), and she's pretty strict about not being an asshole while you're saying No. But she's funny, and the advice is perfect.
Utterly loved this book. Laugh-out-loud funny and, yes, inspiring. Life-changing indeed!
Sarah Knight, inspired after reading The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up by Marie Kondo, decided to write a book to help you get rid of the mental clutter in your life - essentially, giving a fuck about things you shouldn't.
She gets you to write lists, narrow down your options, get rid of things, and even draw diagrams to show how much time, energy, and money you'll regain by re-prioritising your priorities.Not only is this book fun, but I think it's also useful as an eye-opener to things you might be wasting your time, energy, and money on.
The author gives good hands-on tips while explaining how life will improve when you prioritize what's truly important to you.
Overall, I am thankful to say I didn't need much of the advice, as I have done a lot of work over the years to be polite & loving while living the life *I* want to live.
As a business owner who employs a team of people, I hope my staff members skip the "work" chapter (or, if they read it, don't identify with too many of the frustrating scenarios!).
A good new year's read for sure.
I loved Marie Kondo's book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up, so I'm quite drawn to the idea of using her essential question, "does this spark joy?," to evaluate more things.
You start with an inventory of all the Things, Work, Friends, Acquaintances, Strangers, and even Family that you feel pressured to care about or give your time/energy/money toward.
Would you want your friends to suffer through things they didn't enjoy simply because you'd asked them?Knight proposes a fundamental difference between people's feelings and their opinions, asserting we should respect everyone's feelings but we do not need to share the same opinions.
Got some helpful tips out of this, but I feel like there was so much 'this book is going to change your life - just you wait' and very little of HOW to actually give less fucks, ya know? But when she finally did get to the good stuff, it was pretty good!
I already give fewer fucks.EVEN MORE THOUGHTS: http://ladybusiness.dreamwidth.org/20...
This book resonated so much I felt like punching the air whilst I read it.
It solidified a theory I had half been swirling around, namely that I am wasting far too much time on things that don't matter then guilt tripping myself over being neglectful in other areas of my life.
By freeing up the time you waste on oh so many distractions which in the cold light of day you really, really don't g.a.f about, you free up mental space for the things that are really important.
Simply fabulous.
I need to start not giving a F*ck basically. This book is telling you to not care about anything and anyone that have no interest to you. *shrugs*

So many fucks I've given that I can't get back. This book really opened my eyes to the kind of shit I put myself through by feeling obligation to people who don't feel it to me, and similar situations with worrying and spending time, energy, and funds towards stuff I don't want to do.So I'm going to be better. The magic really is life-changing.
★ 2016 AtY Reading Challenge ★: A book with a beautiful title.This was a funny read - and I actually learned something from it - BUT a little bit too repetitive for my tastes.
3.0 StarsI absolutely loved the concept behind this book.
I often feel overwhelmed by obligations, filling my free time with activities I feel like I'm "suppose to" attend.
Then when I turn down invitations, I ultimately feel guilty.
Coming in under 300 pages, I breezed through this book in a few hours, but it didn't provide me with much insight.
As a satire, the advice is given tongue-and-cheek.
Personally, I would have preferred a more serious tone, but I realize this is intended to be a parody.
I just wish I learned more from this book that I could apply to my life.
Funny and realistic - the main thing I got from this book was that it is ok not to say yes to everything, as long as you are polite and honest about it. In other words, to quote the book, "Don't be an asshole" .
Wow!!! I feel like this book should be required reading for everyone! I am so glad that I took the time to listen to this book. I found the advice given to be truly life changing! I look forward to applying the advice given in this book! *I listened to this book on AUDIBLE! For more reviews/reveals/giveaways visit:
The word “tidy” that Knight doesn’t give a fuck about comes from the book she parodies, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing by Marie Kondō.
And I do give a fuck about so many things I pontificate about on Twitter and elsewhere, but that's not the point of this book, to not care about anything at all.Knight amusingly pokes fun of Kondo and the idea that being neat and organized will lead to something like nirvana.
You have to be pretty fucking funny to be in that group, eh?!
چگونه اهمیت ندهیم؟کتاب با لحن طنز آمیزی این مسئله رو باز می کنه و سعی می کنه راهکار هایی ارائه بده.
بیشتر کتاب جملات تکرار می شدند و به نظرم با کتاب کوتاه تری هم می شد جمع بندی کردخیلی از نکات و نمونه ها با فرهنگ ما تقریبا قابل تطابق نیست و کاربردی بودنش رو کم می کنه.
در کل هم کتاب های این ژانر برای هرکس نیست و خب برای من خوندنش سخت هستولی باید اعتراف کنم که تکه هایی شو به کار گرفتم و حتی برای خودم هم عجیب بود.
در مورد این مسئله باید کتاب های جدی تری بخونم
Made me chuckle. Lots of thoughtful stuff about crap you fill your days with even though you really don't want to pleasing people you really don't care about all that much.
Hilarious and thought-provoking but will have to take small steps towards since not sure all of her advice will work without dire consequences especially on work issues. Wearing glittery heels to your work performance review to show you give zero f*cks? I think most of it was meant sarcastically and to be funny, which it was. Figuring out how to give less f*cks without hurting people’s feelings or just pissing people off will take a lot of thought and planning. Overall made me feel better.
The magic of not giving a... A way to disengage from the people who we attach ourselves to out of guilt or our inability to stand our ground. Funny and engaging. Knight has a way with words and why not. She's the editor (or was) of Gone Girl, etc. Any who, if you found the 'joy' of M. Kondo a way to keep your house in order, this deals more with your head.
Grump alert: this book hit my bitter spot in the introduction. I am so weary of narratives where the person excitedly quits their job without acknowledging the sponsorship by spouse, partner, or parents that makes this super-privileged first step possible. Creatives, please stop perpetuating the myth that any of us can make this move if we are simply "brave" or "radical" enough! It's more than a mental decision. It takes a safety net that few have.
