https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/430961.The_Swords_of_Lankhmar
This is a superb fantasy novel, featuring sword fights, magic potions, ancient gods awake and wrathful, super-intelligent rats, a time-traveller riding a sea serpent, a whistle for summoning mystic war cats, transparent but still attractive lady ghouls whose bones gleam provocatively in the moonlight, lovely femme fatales and (of course) deluded males, nudity, copious drinking, overt sadism involving whips and chains, and just a hint of masochism for good measure. In other words: a thoroughly enjoyable journey to the land of Lankhmar.
3, 2013: I corrected a minor typo here just now.In creating the barbarian soldier of fortune Fafhrd and his partner, the short-statured swordsman known only by his nickname the Gray Mouser, and the fantasy world of Nehwon that they inhabit, Leiber was influenced by his sword-and-sorcery sub-genre predecessors, notably Robert E.
The author depicts (and implicitly condemns) genuine evil very clearly in his sadistic, power-mad, treacherous villains; and when the chips are down, this is the sort of evil that Fafhrd and the Mouser instinctively line up against.As a prose stylist, Leiber is the equal of any writer that I've read; his descriptions and narration are full of sensory appeal and telling details that ably limn a scene or a character, create a mood, or evoke the reader's emotions.
Then it's a crazy sea voyage, our heroes get separated in the most hilarious circumstance and there's trekking, ghouls, swordfights, and the coolest wizards ever, Sheelba of the Eyeless Face and Ningauble of the Seven eyes, who don't really like each other but seem to be temporarily in truce to help out their two prodigies and to save Lankhmar from a danger that slowly makes its presence known.
In the end it's a pitch battle between intelligent rats with swords, some riding on unwilling humans, thirteen fearsome war cats, dire skeleton gods, and ghouls, with the Mouser mouse-sized (he still thinks he's the cleverest thing in the universe) and Fafhrd breathlessly chopping off heads everywhere.
With a less varied tale, he has less to play with, and starts to resemble his later imitators, like Pratchett, writing a fairly simple, amusing story with a few high points, but numerous low points where humor is not adequately supported by insight.There are also some problems with sexual politics here, which is all the more disappointing because of Leiber's previously good track record with women who were both independent and unique.
I'd heard that a previous Leiber fantasy story had been censored for overt sexuality, and I was disappointed to hear it, but reading this book, perhaps it was for the best.
Then they make horrendous mistakes, scramble frantically to extricate themselves from their current mess & swagger off, chalking it all up to experience.
Of course, they promptly get into another mess shortly after that, but they're skillful, lucky & obviously watched over closely by the gods of chance & luck.Leiber's writing is wonderful.
He turns a phrase & description in a wonderfully entertaining manner.
He's built a fun, odd world full of magic & barbaric deception.
He has wonderfully decadent cities & rulers, too.
His magic users are unfathomable & horrors abound through out.
I believe this is the least serious in the series so far, the most campy, wildly subversive of the sword and sorcery rules, and I hope it was as fun for the author to write as it was for me to read it.The first part of the novel, dealing with a sea voyage where Fafhrd and Grey Mouser sell their swords as protection to a transport of grain, feels like it was written initially as a stand-alone novella, and the author decided to later expand it with a full blown rat invasion of the city of Lankhmar.
"A plague of rats overrun Lankhmar, the capitol city and glittering gem of the land of Nehwon.
Commissioned to guard a ship of grain from the cursed rodents, brother-in-arms Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser soon discover the plague has progressed to a fatal point.
Mustering the strength of sorcery, they descend into the depths of Lankhmar and rise to battle in order to save the soul of the ill-fated city."This is certainly not the strongest of Fritz Lieber’s series about Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser, but not a complete stinker.
This is the first volume where the reader gets to truly savor the outré, decadent delights of Lankhmar, a city that is wealthy and metropolitan more or less in spite of itself, and this alone is worth the price of admission for the novel.This type of setting has been done more extensively elsewhere (see New Crobuzon), but I'm curious: was this the first? What came before Lankhmar?
With the help of his magical patron, the Mouser goes underground to spy on the rat army.The Swords of Lankhmar is an expansion of Leiber’s novella Scylla’s Daughter (1961, Fantastic Stories of Imagination) which was nominated for a Hugo Award.
Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser are a couple of the best characters in all of fantasy fiction — if you haven’t read any of their adventures, you’re really missing out.Let me again recommend the audio version of this series which has been produced by Audible Frontiers — Jonathan Davis’s performance is so entertaining!
However, the danger does not come from Lankhmar warriors of the steppes, but from their underground, as a race of giant rats living inside of them and has hatched a plan to seize power over the city of Black Toga.In this book, Fritz Leiber implement all his skills of greatnarrator, providing a history of sword and sorcery unusual and compelling in which there are brute force and duels to the death to lord, but intelligence and a good dose of irony.
A lesser tale, run too long We're already at the point of diminishing returns in the Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser stories. What would be a decent novella is stretched into a mediocre novel, slowed by palace intrigues that aren't and mysterious side characters that aren't worth pondering. Still, it's pleasant enough and the world building, including the invisible-fleshed Ghouls and the rat kingdom of Lankhmar Below make for a worthwhile read.
It started strong with witty banter between Fafhrd and Mouser and there was a tantalizing promise of a gonzo story of a time traveler riding a purple dragon, then the first third of the novel ended and Leiber wrote a nonsense tale of rats that involved Mouser in a Alice in Wonderland kind of tale.
I would only give two stars, but it had its moments of high notes, but only a few and too scarce; for instance, Fafhrd falling for a ghoul was fun.
I have read many warnings that the Fafhrd and Mouser stories fizzle near the end.
I always kind of dislike that in a story, when characters seem just dumb enough to let the plot go where the author wants it too.
2. It is full of interesting and colorful ideas, as well as some moments of really fine writing.If I were to spill something that would whet your appetite, I think it would be the passages that comprise the side-story of Fafhrd and Bonny Bones.
It had some troubling sexist bits, but they seemed to stick to Fafhrd, not the story, if you know what a I mean.
But whereas the other books are anthologies of slightly connected but mostly separate short stories, this particular one is a full length novel.
And where the short stories are a great length to be able to laugh at them for a bit in between heavier books or even between chapters of a really long and dense book, a full novel just seems way too long for this formula.(view spoiler)[Especially since they get into trouble by being overcome by lust for a woman who just tried to kill them a few chapters earlier.
Possibly the best fantasy novel of all time.
I grabbed it randomly off a bookshelf one night, maybe a month ago, before going to bed, and re-read it for the 3rd or 4th time in my life.
It's a quick and amazing read.
the only flaw in this book is the dumb part about the interdimensional traveler -- I think this was filler material recycled from another story.
Anyhow this is the only full-length Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser novel, and it is no surprise that the best fantasy characters I've ever read star in such a great book.
Really 3.5 stars. Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser in their first full-length novel take on a horde of civilized rats bent on taking over Lankhmar. I did enjoy it quite a bit, but the heroes were really missing the obvious in the beginning and the middle had slow parts, and the end with the whistle was just a little bit too lucky. I really liked the juxtopositions of how sometimes being small has its fighting advantages, and sometimes being large does.
Their contrasted personalities keep aloft some of the more "distant" part of the work (again--below), and their capricious spells mesh very nicely with the well-explored (and slightly terrifying) prospect of an evil rat army.However, the "rat army" angle and the general arc of the plot is held back a bit by the story's first leg: an entire boat trip, which mostly just serves to set up a couple characters and a particularly distinct side character (seen on the cover).
This trip was the product of an entirely removed short story with Fafhrd and the Mouser, and this book--being the only full-length adventure in their catalogue--suffers a bit for its inclusion.
I recently read Swords and Deviltry, the first in the Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser series and because of its role as an origin story of a pair of existing characters felt that I could not really evaluate it properly and that there was potential there.
Somehow Leiber gets these to exist together in a way that is unique, so that you take every part of it seriously and not at the same time.
It is all quite unique and I am not sure that I have read anything tonally quite like it before.The whole thing is very good and Leiber is underappreciated and sadly becoming forgotten I think.
A few snippets for your delectation:The Mouser studied Fafhrd, wondering if it were politic to make a certain proposal he had in mind.
He was not quite certain of Fafhrd's feelings toward Hisvet.
The Mouser said, "That's the kiss with which the green priestess of Djil seals the eyes of those departing this world." "Is it?" Frix asked softly.As he stood up, he said, "Believe it or not, I'll come back and find you." "You won't do either," she assured him, "and I shan't be anywhere." "Nevertheless I will hunt you down," he said.
I believe this is the best book I've read so far of the adventures of The Gray Mouser and Fafhrd.
My only negative observation is that the author will switch scenes with no preamble so you're reading about what one character is up to and the next paragraph takes you to an entirely different scenario.
It's only a bit disconcerting but I don't think it is evidence of good writing.
The book ends with our heroes riding off into the sunset with their new lovers.
Fafhrd's is a different kind of woman, especially since he used to be fond of a more zaftig figured female.
I'm partial to Leiber's work, and this, the only novel-length "Fafhrd and Grey Muser" tale, doesn't disappoint. Rats are taking over the pair's home base, the city of Lankhmar in the land of Nehwon, and not just any rats: these are intelligent and organized and very dangerous. There is plenty of sword play, and sorcery to boot, along with some of Leiber's most inventive plotting. Originally commissioned to guard a ship full of grain, the big barbarian and the small man with the quick blade soon find themselves outclassed by their foes and in need of magical help.
I am continuing my read of Fritz Leiber Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser stories in the order they were first published. I really enjoyed the Swords of Lankhmar to include the Easter eggs place within the story. If I had not read the a number of his early writings I would not have picked up on them. I highly recommend this novel and I'm looking forward to reading "The Snow Women" in the near future.
I like the idea of fritz but his fascination with having 2 great heroes both compete for 1 girl or even have 1 girlfriend each in other books is silly. Heroes in fantasy lands would have sex with dozens of hot women. This bizarre monogamy which is not natural is silly. Don't marry, have sex with dozens hot women, don't have kids, and live alone.
great Sword and sorcery, the more you learn about Fafard and the gray Mousure the more i like them, they grow as characters but dont as well.
A fun fantasy from Fritz Leiber for the Golden Years. Possibly not his very best work but still very entertaining.
_The Swords of Lankhmar_ reads like an actual novel, rather than as a collection of connected short stories, the way the earlier books in the series do. I enjoyed it a great deal.
They'd probably run Lankhmar a lot better than the humans do, since the Lankhmarese seem to spend most of their time trying to cheat, rob, or kill each other.It wouldn't be one of my reviews about the Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser books without talking about the language, and for this book, I have an appropriately evocative passage:Their behavior made old folks and storytellers and thin-bearded squinting scholars fearfully recall the fables that there had once been a humped city of rats large as men where imperial Lankhmar had now stood for three-score centuries; that rats had once had a language and government of their own and a single empire stretching to the borders of the unknown world, coexistent with man's cities but more unified; and that beneath the stoutly mortared stones of Lankhmar, far below their customary burrowings and any delvings of man, there was a low-ceilinged rodent metropolis with streets and homes and glow-lights all its own and granaries stuffed with stolen grain.See?
This is somewhat mitigated by the sheer outrageousness of their behaviour which raises suspicion that maybe they are not quite serious about it all and only play-acting to pass the time on a boring sea-voyage, but even so it does appear rather out of character – while this is certainly not the first time that our two protagonists have fallen for a pretty face I cannot remember any previous instance where they forgot themselves quite as much as here with Hesvit.Although I have to admit that I found Hesvit rather enjoyable myself – it is clear pretty early on that she is up to no good and one of the novel’s bad guys, and while she does not exactly have a lot of character depth beyond her being evil for evil’s sake, what there is is quite fascinating, mysterious and aloof, always dancing just out of everyone’s grasp and generally a very colourful villain who gives our heroes – the Mouser in particular – quite the run for their money.The novel becomes markedly more lively from its second third onwards, when the location shifts to Lankhmar.
It might summon things far worse even than savage mastiffs or the police."The fifth chronicle in the collected stories of Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser contains a great many enjoyable bits of advice, such as the quote in the headline above."Swords of Lankhmar" finds our beloved heroes on what is a full, novel-length adventure.
Again, a minor distraction only, not a significant detraction from the work itself.While fully appreciating the level of enjoyment derived by having a full-length story devoted (somewhat) to Fafhrd and (mostly) the Grey Mouser, it will be a pleasure to return to the fast-paced snap of the short(er) stories.TL;DR: quick.
Anche per gli scorpioni grigi, purtroppo, non soltanto per me, come appurai dopo aver scoperto un enorme ponfo sulla caviglia destra (ecco cos'era stata quella punturina a cui avevo dato poca importanza dato che ero letteralmente catafratta non solo con il naso ma tutti e cinque i sensi nella mia occupazione preferita).Dispiace solo di non essermi procurata copia di quelle antiche letture, a parte La Fondazione, ma l'abitudine di comprarmi i prestiti è sorta dopo.Buffo mi sembrava il gigantesco Fafhrd, e un po' tontolone, per soprammercato.
