https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288897.Where_Are_the_Customers_Yachts_
A very easy and pleasurable reading, highly recommended to everyone BEFORE starting investing their money ;) as for a former insider of the financial industry, the book proved to be really entertaining for me, with a good portion of irony and satire. I find it especially amusing that almost nothing has changed in the last 75 years (since the book was written in the 1940), however, this is, most likely, due to the fact that a biological machine, aka homo sapiens sapiens, is primarily lead by emotions (such as greed and fear).
If you want to read one book on investing / stock markets, take this. Although written 75 years ago, applies very well today. One of the few books on subject that is actually funny and entertaining yet still conveys valuable lessons.
Schwed covers some important ground in what may be one of the most important books ever written about Wall Street; the craziness of financial predictions, the desperate nature of stock brokers (today known as "financial advisors), the psychotic tendencies of the investing public, and capitalism - that old hag. While the faces behind Wall Street have changed, the lunacy remains. Anyone with more than $1 invested in the stock market should own this book. FULL DISCLOSURE: As a financial author myself, I'm jealous of the way Fred Schwed Jr. writes. His choice of words are simply unmatched.
One man seeing the same thing as this man (it's usually a man) famously asked the question we all ought to have asked:Where are the customers' yachts?Sadly, there is a lot of truth in that comment.
"Wall Street", or financial services at large, are inventions made for making their customers rich, but what often happens is that all the wealth stays there.
I think that is one of the purposes with humor and satire - helping improve ourselves.Schwed's classic book from 1940 has stood the test of time and still raises lots of questions like the one in the title.
The probe into the wall street operations forces you to rethink "passion" for the financial markets.
On the pessimistic note, the win-loss situation turns to be coin flips.
No speculators will beat the market forever.
Market is naturally unpredictable as weather appears.
Now you wonder the ever-glowing heat of quants in the financial markets, computer engineers of the trading systems, and the fawning salaries of business analysts across the industries.
"Speculator's actions are prompted by tape reading, chart reading, statistical analysis, inside information, trading instincts" Another gloomy note that most of my acquaintances fall into this category.
Very funny. Old-style humor, probably will go over the head of most modern day readers. Some of it is pretty oblique. His insights are as fresh as ever, and now most new "experts" on the matter (e.g. Kahneman or Michael Lewis) don't feel at all original. Nothing has changed on Wall Street, it's still a casino.
Good book. Seems simple at first but by the end you catch onto the subtle truths underneath the dry wit.
All time investment classic.
Not too useful for someone who already doesn't think highly of wall street (and people in general)
Where Are the Customers' Yachts?
is a critical....and hilarious....review of Wall Street.
Like any industry, there are competents and inepts; those with integrity and the dishonest; folks who are out to serve their customers and those that are out for themselves.
However, it is possible that Wall Street has more than its fair share of the negatives, given the belief that big money is attainable without the years of study or the incredibly hard work that is required of any successful professional.
A must read for any investment or portfolio professional....even if it only helps with the cocktail discussions.
As many others reviewers have said before me it is indeed funny to think that now in 2015 when I read this book at the age of 32 it is as relevant as it was when it was first written back in 1940.
In the words of Peter Lynch, "if the only reason you can give when buying a stock is that the sucker is going up then probably you are not on the path to investing success" lol.
Main takeaways on wall street and investing: avoid speculation, avoid leverage, avoid following the herd.
1. Speculation is almost nothing but coin flipping.2.
Story on buying stocks witch dividend and sell them only when they go down .3: %commissions on buying and selling stock4.
Sell all the stocks at the peak of the book and invest in bonds.
Bonds might go down further but don't pay attention .
6. When it's bust buy the stocks from the people who are dying to sell the stock by selling bonds even at loss and stocks may go down further don't pay attention and wait until the peak of next boom.
Funny descriptions about short selling and options .
Even if you don't have a deep interest in investing or personal finance this book is a must read because all people are or ought to be investing.
In fact the more nascent or open to learning the better because this book is a great foundation for how investing should be understood and executed.
Regardless, the author does a great job of explaining terms and making all of the 3 page chapters pretty digestible.
Quick fun read that gives you a lot of power per page.
Nice, cynical view of Wall Street that everyone should read before investing. A classic, in that is was written in 1940, a timeless classic in that is still rings solid and true. Constantly funny in an intellectual and dry wit.
An inside look of the wall street from back in the early days. The author presents some of the details and rational for different investment strategies. The book is a little diluted so for a solid financial advice read some other book, for entertainment and history would read this book.
Quoted by Malkiel, I thought I would read this. The names of institutions and professional titles have changed over time, but Schwed comically and wittily proclaims why broker dealers are only in it for themselves - in the 40's and today.
Easily the best explanation of the dynamic between financial services professionals and their customers.
Very useful in understanding Wall Street's and society's behavior.
wsj
Quick, funny, and informative.(Like with most topical mockery, appreciation probably scales with previous exposure.)
A very funny book and probably the truest and most enduring description of American finance ever written. Delightful.
one of the best, with penetrating insights and humor
332.64 Subtitled "A Good Hard Look At Wall Street". A humorous look at the people, practices and myths that make up the investment business.
So you've got a good broker making you lots of money? The title of this little gem speaks volumes much larger than this little book. Read this and put your feet firmly on the ground.
FALSE
Time fells the favored;the fallen rise. Yet this oldbook is plenty wise.
This book is a little bit dated, but really it holds up pretty well. These days it’s probably only for people who are very interested in wall street history, but it’s a great read if you are.
A book which is still running so well after 60 years gives a clear indication on its content! Wall Street has never looked so funny before! A story from an insider.
More proof, as if any more were needed, that Wall Street is full of dorks. It would be funny if it weren't so sad.
Do you want to get a glimpse of how the fun filled & crazy financial world functioned in 1920's and even now ?Read this awesome book.
