https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199070.The_Man_Nobody_Knows

Almost done. Radical.Nothing religious. Gives a deeper and different insight to what you come across in your Church and Faith formation classes. A realistic and stronger view of the man that is Jesus.
It uses quite a bit of literary freedom with the Bible, but it has its good points and quite effectively transposes Jesus as a modern man everyone should look up to. This is no Dostoevsky's Idiot, however.
I love reading people's opinions and readings of the Saviour. As the author himself notes, we see far more of ourselves in the Saviour than we probably see the Saviour but that too is revelatory and interesting.
An inspiring historical reference to "leadership" is found in the remarkable book The Man Nobody Knows By Bruce Barton.
One reason why this book is remarkable is that the word leadership was not in common use in 1924, when the book was first published.
Bruce Fairchild Barton, a descendent of John Davenport (founder of Yale University) established one of the most prominent advertising firms in the U.S. He is credited with creating the "Betty Crocker" brand for General Mills, as well as such common brand names as "General Electric" and "General Motors." Barton also served two terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, but he is remembered most for having authored The Man Nobody Knows.
I've kept this book in my library ever since my freshman year in Bible college.
Now that it's 2012, I wanted to read the book one last time before I put it into the archives.
In a culture that has largely kicked Jesus Christ to the curb, Barton's book was surprisingly refreshing--even 87 years after its first publication.
Today we now know less about who Jesus is than when this book was written.
That's a sad commentary; but it also points to the necessity of this book and others like it to bring the message of Jesus Christ to the 21st century.

Guarenteed to be one of the weirdest biographies of Jesus you will ever read.
The Man Nobody Knows was written in 1925 by a man in the advertising business who claimed (among other things) that Jesus was the founder of modern business, that he was a success due to a strong "personal magnetism," that he was a tough guy and a lady's man instead of some kind of "sissified" (spiritually minded?) girly-man, and that he was a blue-eyed (Anglo-Saxon?) sales dynamo with superior organizational techniques.
Good book for a laugh and not much else.
A look at Jesus Christ as a macho man with strong executive ability.  Although there is a rough draft quality & incomplete feel to it, there are gems to be found. Parables as advertising? Many Christian reviewers are offended. But why not? A picture says a thousand words. There are references to great American politicians, inventors, and businessmen. Lincoln lovers especially will be pleased. A Man Nobody Knows will be more cordial to readers familiar with the Gospels, as others just won't know the references.  But this is a daring and provocative book for everyone.
Here is a fine book that sets a good picture of Christ in a different perspective than you might have pictured in any of your studies before.Many view based on paintings made down thru time because its natural for any beloved to want a picture in third mind.
But hits obvious that Christ didn't care for you to have su h an image but instead Christ wanted you to see the father thru himself which is more important.
But it's obvious here that Christ thru his works portrayed the true picture that lasts down thru the ages.
This book was written during the 1920s by Bruce Barton (no relation to me), who was an ad salesman. It's a very interesting take on the life of Jesus from the perspective of Jesus as an organization and advertising mastermind. His image of Jesus is an outdoorsy, bronzed muscled man, who ended up sounding like a cross between the Brawny Paper Towel Man and Teddy Roosevelt. There are some characterizations and interpretations of stories from the New Testament that I definitely didn't agree with, but it's a short thought provoking read.
Surprisingly enjoyable? I didn't think it would be good - I expected to be laughing derisively throughout - but it really wasn't /so/ off the mark that I couldn't like it. Barton had a few interesting points to make. I don't think I really agree with him on his interpretation (he seems to be reaching a few times) but hey, his idea of Jesus' personality was a fun change from what I normally hear from religion.Of course, take it all with a grain of salt: I've never read the Bible.
Fantastic book. It was loaned to me by a friend and I read the whole thing in one sitting. Not only do I want to buy my own copy, but I'm tempted to buy copies for several friends. This is one of my favorites; it's inspiring and thought-provoking and something different from my usual catalog of books.
A commendable attempt to rescue a muscular Christianity from an anti-bourgeois clergy, by a shameless self-promoter. The marketing skill shows in the highly readable prose and the easy to follow story telling. An inspiration for my nascent novel, in which I attempt to do the opposite (i.e., rescue anti-bourgeois Christianity from the muscular capitalists).
Quickly looked over this book after I had read about it in a article regarding business. It was a popular title in its day. Reminded me of The Jefferson Bible. One man's version of the story of Jesus in the New Testament. It was OK.
A must for everyone!!!!!!
This isn't a good book, but it is interesting. The author tries to sell Jesus to us as a business man.
This is one that truly needs to be read to be believed.
Some points were interesting. The author downplayed Jesus's claims of divinity. It's hard to claim Jesus was only a great teacher when he identified himself as much more.
I read this many years ago. Unintentionally hilarious. Jesusas a businessman...
I have the 1926 hardcover.
