https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108218.Men_Without_Women
I forbid my students to use Google because I want them to be sick of thinking, which they always end up being.
I love this story, sometimes I top-toe around it because you never know how people will react and I don’t want to push them overboard but I like it when I see groups of people in front of me, just contemplating and actually arguing about literature, forgetting that I’m in the classroom, eating candies or just writing down another theory in my Ernest Hemingway folder.
There are three other stories that make people equally nervious but I always get best thinking effects after we finish our sessions.
The best of these stories are among the finest in the English language: “Hills Like White Elephants,” “The Killers,” “In Another Country,” “Fifty Grand,” “Now I Lay Me,” though I want to make a pitch, too, for the story of the aging bullfighter in “The Undefeated,” which has amazing passages of description, as painful as it is now for most people to see the cruelty of the slow killing of the bull.
The stories in this book reflect this, with each character reduced to the raw brutal essence of what it means to be a man; in the bullring, at the end of a gun, in war at the wheel of a car or in the arms of a woman.Whether you think he was a misogynist dinosaur or man's man, Hemingway grabbed life by the balls and fought his way through wars, personal tragedy, four marriages and the development of a debilitating illness to die on his own terms and in his own way.
If I was a man I think I'd like to be Hemingway.
I'm not especially keen on short stories: if they're good, I can't read too many in quick succession because it's disorienting, and if they're not good...
I just couldn't engage with the characters, plots (I hate bullfighting and boxing, which set me against a couple of them) or writing style, the latter being mostly such short sentences that it was almost like reading a child's book.
I'm a different reader now.I really enjoyed The Old Man and the Sea, reviewed HERE.It's still quite a masculine story, but not in the macho way that some of these are.
شاید بعدا راجع بهش نوشتم اما الان میگم مثل بقیه داستان های همینگوی دوستش داشتم:)
An Alpine Idyll -- The most striking image from any story in Hemingway's Men Without Women is that of the peasant man chopping and gathering wood in the lantern light, with the lantern dangling from the open mouth of his dead and frozen wife.It is such a fitting image, considering the title of Hemingway's book, but I have never been bothered by the image, nor the action, as so many seem to be.The peasant and his wife lived a hard life.
It is this behaviour, the behaviour of these men sitting in judgment over another man, that bothers me.
I'm not really sure I see Hemingway's brilliance just yet.
An idea or a quote will flit through when you least expect it and then the spark just goes out.I love how he strips his stories of everything but the bare fundamentals, and sets it so that you never know what the story actually is.
And who knows if I've actually understood it.
I can see that he's a fantastic writer, but I don't think he's a very good story-teller.
Not yet, anyway.Also if his stories are anything to go by, he's too much of a chauvinist for me to like.
His men are too masculine, too worldly, too sure of themselves.
بعد از «پیرمرد و دریا» و «وداع با اسلحه» این سومین کتابی بود که از همینگوی میخواندم. هر چند سبک داستان نویسی او در این مجموعه جالب است و با دقت تمام به جزئیات میپردازد و اولین داستان با عنوان «کله شق» به آسانی میتواند تبدیل به فیلمنامه شود، اما داستانها جذابیت خاصی ندارند. داستان کوتاه «مسابقهی پنجاه هزار دلاری» بدک نبودطرح فوقالعاده جالب روی جلد کتاب در نسخهای که من مطالعه کردم (چاپ چهارم نشر افق) کار کیانوش غریبپور است. طرحی بسیار ساده که با چند حرکت قلم مو آفریده شده و مرد تنهایی را به تصویر
بعد از «پیرمرد و دریا» و «وداع با اسلحه» این سومین کتابی بود که از همینگوی می‌خواندم. هر چند سبک داستان نویسی او در این مجموعه جالب است و با دقت تمام به جزئیات می‌پردازد و اولین داستان با عنوان «کله شق» به آسانی می‌تواند تبدیل به فیلمنامه شود، اما داستان‌ها جذابیت خاصی ندارند. داستان کوتاه «مسابقه‌ی پنجاه هزار دلاری» بدک نبودطرح فوق‌العاده جالب روی جلد کتاب در نسخه‌ای که من مطالعه کردم (چاپ چهارم نشر افق) کار کیانوش غریب‌پور است. طرحی بسیار ساده که با چند حرکت قلم مو آفریده شده و مرد تنهایی را به تصویر کشیده است
Published in 1927, this is Hemingway's 2nd group of short stories. This collection contains 14 stories and these were quite good. Of course there is a story about bullfighting and one about boxing, as you would expect. But they've got that Hemingway flair or style that is unique and very recognizable. Another story that was very poignant about a girl on the train, on the way to get an abortion, and her discussion with her lover, although they don't directly say that's what they are doing. All in all, much better than I was expecting.
An early collection of Hemingway stories that show the range he would employ in his longer works. The more famous "Hills Like White Elephants" and "The Killers" are included in this volume. "Now I Lay Me" was a new story for me and was my favorite of the bunch.
He lay for a long time with his face in the pillow, and after a while he forgot to think about Prudence and finally he went to sleep.
When he awoke in the night he heard the wind in the hemlock trees outside the cottage and the waves of the lake coming in on the shore, and he went back to sleep.
In the morning there was a big wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and he was awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken.”A collection of somewhat mediocre stories from an otherwise brilliant writer.
I think Hemingway's short stories are underestimated. Most of them are as good as his novels and some of them are even better.
قصة رجال بلا نساء ذكرتني مباشرة بالعجوز والبحر ..الرمزية والاصرار والتحدي ..والنهاية الخاسرة الرابحة بنفس الوقت ..
It is a literary form that has eluded me, just as the story gets good; it ENDS!Hemingway writes short stories that feel like snap shots; you see the young couple in the cafe, the boy trying to contain his broken heart, the injured soldiers.
But the contact is brief, you look at them and draw conclusions about their lives based on body language, facial expression, their manner of speech and their interactions with the world.
But a snapshot does not tell you what happened next; you're left with a sense of wondering and a small sense of loss.
I read each story two or three times and looked them up on the internet for explanations, and afterwards, wow, did I feel naive.
Maybe the reference to the gun resting by his thigh over and over meant something – not sure.Each story within this small book had a message and each message was pretty darn dark and sad, but poignant.“Hills Like White Elephants”, is a dialogue between two people, that is the whole story.
I am taking everyone’s comments with a grain of salt, and coming to my own conclusions.Every story in this small book has a message.
Recommended for: Tough guys with a gentle heart.The blurb on the cover read " In these tales shorn of sensitivity and femininity,one meets real men–gunslingers, bullfighters,soldiers, jockeys,gangsters--," I stopped there,frowning--aren't doctors,academics,bankers (ok,not bankers) real men too?Ah,but then you have to remember Hemingway's culture of machismo*: these are 'real men' cause they've looked death in the eye,they have gone to the edge & come back- mortally wounded yet never conceding defeat.
مجموعة قصصية فارغة، يبدأ همنغواي بالقصة مثلًا، ويمحورها، وينزل ما شاء من شخصيات فيها وحوارات، ثم ينهيها كلاعب يسدد خارج المرمى، ما تعلمته من هذه المجموعة هو ألا أكتب مثلها.
I had two short story collections before me with the title 'Men Without Women', one by Ernest Hemingway, the other by Haruki Murakami.
I went with Hemingway's because it was slimmer and had a nice cover photograph of some men sitting at a doorway drinking beer and smoking cigarettes (yeah, I'm shallow that way).Anyway, as is typical for short story collections, some are good, some are so-so.
By that I mean, you would not come across real people talking like that.
I can't explain it.'A Simple Enquiry' made me chuckle at the end.
If I should die before I wake, I pray, thee, Lord, my soul to take.Кожного разу думаючи про свого улюбленого книжкового героя, я згадую Юхана Нільсена Нагеля із "Містерій" Гамсуна як найбільш близького по духу мені персонажа.
Дочитуючи збірку творів Хемінгуея "Чоловіки без жінок", зловив себе на роздумах про те, яким би був Нагель в історіях Хема?
Як на мене, то це просто улюблений варіант вираження автором флегматизму.
Що було б зовсім несправедливо, адже автор ніяк не висловлює зневаги до жінок, а лише припускає, що інколи чоловікам краще на війні, кориді, полюванні, рибалці.
21st book read in 2018.Number 176 out of 681 on my all time book list.Really good short stories with a surprising amount of depth.
60 صفحه خوندم و ولش کردم.فقط بخاطر اسم همینگوی روی کتاب شروع کردم که اونم بد زد تو ذوقم. حسف وقت و هزینه که برای این کتاب شده. ضعیف ترین کار همینگوی که تا الان خوندم.یه کلمه: مزخرف
The book opens with a good bullfight story in which no women appear.
We move on to a story in which a man and woman discuss whether the woman should have an abortion: women have firmly entered the book.
I'll not be as subtle as Hemingway: the major enquires as to the sexuality of his servant.
In a way, the title of this selection of short stories is misleading, but it's certainly an attention-grabber.
I didn't care much for his posthumous "Garden of Eden" but I have a great admiration for Hemingway the Man. What a life he lived!
And I'll read more Hemingway, certainly.
Elbette güzel öyküler fakat çeviriden midir yoksa içine almamasından mıdır bilemem az biraz az sürükleyici bir okuma oldu. Lokanta ve katilleri çok iyiydi ama daha önce okumuştum ve yine etkilenmiştim.
เปนครังแรกทีอานงานแปลของสนพ.กำมะหยีแลวรูสึก...อึนๆ ติดๆ ขัดๆ..ไมไหลลืนอยางทีเคย
เป็นครั้งแรกที่อ่านงานแปลของสนพ.กำมะหยี่แล้วรู้สึก...อึนๆ ติดๆ ขัดๆ..ไม่ไหลลื่นอย่างที่เคย
I am determined to get through these stories if its the last thing I do, c'mon its Ernest Hemingway.Everyone loves a Hemingway story right, so why not me.
We could have everything and every day we make it more impossible.
Проте, не скутий у образності сюжету: лише відзначення окремими оваціями "слонячого" оповідання (розмова чоловіка з жінкою про вагітність та аборт без жодного прямого згадування вагітності та аборту) зі збірки "Чоловіки без жінок" у рецензіях тут же, на Goodreads, є тому свідченням.Очевидно, чому Ернест так багато кого надихнув своєю стилистикою та сюжетами.
Решта ж є натяком на крутий задум із типово-пиятицьким побутом "втраченого покоління", що простежуються наскрізно в усій творчості Ернеста (і що є натхненням для того ж Керуака).Лише наголошу повторно: якщо Гем - то коротка проза, і інакше ніяк.
“That's all we do, isn't it -- look at things and try new drinks?”Men Without Women is a collection of stories by Ernest Hemingway.
It includes such classics as "Hills Like White Elephants", "Fifty Grand", "The Killers", and "In Another Country."I listened to this collection on audible as read by Stacey Keach, and he was a wonderful reader.
Also he did a great job with the dialects which included Italians, New Yorkers, women, a drunk, among others.I enjoyed these stories because I enjoy Hemingway.
If I could recommend only one story, it would be the startling "Hills Like White Elephants."
Stories in this collection range from pure genius (Hills like White Elephants) to good enough (Fifty Grand) to total crap (Che Ti Dice La Patria?). The book was written near the beginning of Hemingway's career and was one of the books that made him popular. The famous reticent style consisting of short sentences with which Hemingway is known starts to take shape in this book, and the special topics in which Hemingway was always interested (was, bullfighting, boxing, hunting, etc.) appear in most of the stories.
The stories from this collection, and especially The Killers, are very good examples of slice of life narratives.
I love how backstory is implied for the characters and events and every story leaves you contemplating what will follow.I did however feel let down by possibly the two weakest stories closing the collection which left a bad flavour in the mouth of an otherwise highly enjoyable experience.Both movie adaptations of The Killers were incredibly inferior stories, somehow neither screenwriter captured the mood, style or content of the Hemingway story, something I find truly strange as he is apparently one of the most imitated writers of all time.
The potential for many great movies is there in this collection, in the right hands it could be a goldmine.
