https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238137.Purity_in_Death
This one has some of the most quotable quotes and the best repartee especially between Peabody and Eve. My family became irritated by how many bits I insisted on reading out loud.As with all of the books there was much to enjoy as all of our favourite characters came out to play, some with only minor roles, but there nevertheless.
Jamie came back to visit and provided a lot of the humour.
Summerset showed his softer side to Eve. And Galahad lay on his back and snored.I loved it all just as much as I did on my first reading many years ago.
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4.5 starsIt was one hell of a ride; extremely interesting and wicked suspense.
A computer virus, which affected human brain and killed a person in a very cruel and painful way.
Justice sidesteps the law.
They killed pedophile and other scam, who raped kids, who sold drugs to kids, who sold kids.
All these inhumans deserved to be killed.
The only and fatal mistake of the ‘jury’ was not to disable those, who was voted to be killed.
If the virus made them incapable of physical harm, the justice would have been perfect.
But I wasn’t opposite to their justice.
Romance.
I really enjoy the interesting new plot ideas that Robb keeps thinking up.
It looks as if people are being specifically targetted and Eve and her team must figure out how and why before too many more deaths occur.
All the main characters are back - Eve and Roarke are still very much in love and enjoying each other, Peabody and MacNab are an item again but MacNab is badly injured during the investigation, Summerset and Galahad are themselves and Mavis breezes in with some amazing news for Eve. It was good to meet Jamie again, doing well and working here as an assistant to Roarke.
Ooh, a computer virus that actually infects the user and make them die a horribly painful death, and in this case it is sent to a bunch of child predators?
Cuz, we could totally use something like that.wow, this newspaper must come from the future!
This virus is also causing some of these dying assholes to take some innocent people out with them before they die.
Not a lot of people are too upset over scumbags being killed until one of the cops on the case gets infected.
Not that beautiful, colorful man!Don't you die on me, McNab!
Another amazing book from J.D.Robb. 😊😊😊
Another one over and done with. Getting old? Not a bit. If anything, I am getting more interested in their relationship ... Love them. I probably love Eve more than I love Roarke!!Another grisly case. Plenty of bodies turning up. Plenty of blood and gore. "Who does all the work out here, anyway?""Elves of course." he laughed and drew her into an arbored tunnel where hundreds of roses climbed and dripped onto green, shady ground."Imported from Ireland?""Naturally." Some of the stuff was a bit tec
Getting old?
Not a bit.
If anything, I am getting more interested in their relationship ...
Love them.
I probably love Eve more than I love Roarke!!Another grisly case.
Plenty of bodies turning up.
Plenty of blood and gore.
Some of the stuff was a bit technical.
Love all the secondary characters, Whitney, Peabody, Nadine ...
He knew she'd faced death countless times.
Had faced it with her.
they'd had each other's blood on their hands before.He'd held her through dreams more violent and vicious than any human soul should have to bear.
Roarke.
What would Eve do without him?
3.65⭐
Even for a seasoned homicide cop, the sight of that pulpy mass of grey matter on a sterile scale was a little off-putting.“Definitely expanded her mind,” Morris said, “But it doesn’t appear she managed it by reading the great works of literature or exploring other cultures.”  right, no? This is shining example why I love these books!!!There’s always a very interesting crime/mystery, interspaced with hilarious, clever, fanny dialogue!!!Here the mystery is really mysterious! We have a vigilante g
Even for a seasoned homicide cop, the sight of that pulpy mass of grey matter on a sterile scale was a little off-putting.“Definitely expanded her mind,” Morris said, “But it doesn’t appear she managed it by reading the great works of literature or exploring other cultures.”
And they have a very hot argument!!We have to see our lover-boy Ian getting hit by a madman!!!
OMG!!!But, don’t worry, he gets well at the end!!
A little limping, but well!!!Many thing happen, a lot of suspects, a lot of dead for Eve to avenge put to rest.
When I started this series I told myself to take it in little doses because the number of books is overwhelming and daunting.
After reading 15 books straight I found myself wanting more.
I love the characters so much.
Eve can be a bitch sometimes but she's one hell of a cop.
My kind of woman.
And Roarke, man, did I say he's perfect?
Just perfect.
I might be blinded by my love for him.
I was clapping my hands near the end when the baddie had a confrontation with Eve. Did not see that one coming.
When another man dies under similar circumstances, Eve begins to suspect that, although impossible, the men were infected by a computer virus.
Can Eve find the culprit and stop their nefarious agenda before the contagion spreads?With so many books in the series (#45 will be published in 2017), it is inevitable that certain plot elements will be repeated.
Thus, Eve is once again investigating a cyber related crime (similar to Rapture in Death and one that involves a vigilante (as in Judgement in Death).
The victims: the underbelly feeding off society - a drug pusher targeting schools, a paedophile, a pimp / blackmailer, all appear to suffer a “brain explosion”, and driven by madness kill anyone in their path before taking their own life.
With the PC quarantined in Roarke’s lab there is a race against time as Roarke, Feeney and young hacker Jamie attempt to isolate and decode the virus transmitted from machine to human, while Eve tracks down the shadowy vigilante group responsible, aided or thwarted by political spin from the Mayor’s office and on-line reporter for Channel 75, Nadine Furst (doesn’t she have a life???).
4.5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Futuristic/Crime Thriller
This was beyond ult. The idea of a computer virus killing people is amongst the most original things I've seen to date. I feel like a broken record saying this but this series just keeps getting better and better.
★★★★★ Eep! McNab!
This one will be short and sweet. I’m am running out of things to say about the books in this series. I continue to enjoy each one as much as the previous one.With each book we get character development, reintroduction of characters from prior books with the promise of consistency and the plots continue to be interesting and engaging. The writing is fabulous. J.D. Robb has struck gold with this series.I hope more of my friends will give this series a try. Don’t let the number of books deter you. They are rather addicting!!
Eve, Peabody, Roarke and the gang all come together once again to nab some terrorist that bring a whole new meaning to "Computer Virus." It was great and very well done. A super nice twist at the end and I hope to hear more about Mavis in the next book. Awesome - 4 stars.
4 1/2 stars
When Louie Cogburn experiences headaches so painful they feel like an ice pike going through his head, he reaches his final precipice. After being holed up in his apartment, he can’t escape it no matter how loud the keeps his music up. The pain remains and becomes more intense as time goes on.Distressed neighbours complain and once someone knocks on his door, Louie snaps, swinging a baseball bat at the person until a cop arrives and must stun him twice in order to stop his rampage. In the end,
Robb creates a case that in puzzling at first glance and when you think you know what is happening, she enters another clue that keeps you wondering.
It’s almost as if she works backward, knowing exactly what is going to happen at the exact right time to achieve a solid set up.I must rave about Susan Erickson, the narrator of this series.
She creates such distinct voices for each character that I know exactly who is speaking without missing a beat.If you’re daunted by the sheer number of books in this series, an easy way to get through them is listening to the audiobooks.
Fantastic read, great premise, gripping emotional story...This is the 15th novel in the Nora Roberts (writing as J.D. Robb) suspense/mystery/crime thriller series about NYC Homicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas.
Supporting our leading lady is a cast of characters we have come to enjoy, including her billionaire husband Roarke; her aide (Ms.) Peabody; a young policeman named Trueheart (honest!); and electronic/computer cop specialists McNab and Feeney.
Still, Robb's writing seems at the top her form in this story; we wept several times during various sad and gripping scenes surrounding the deaths and funerals involved with the innocent.
Yes, she can be a bit self-righteous at times, and even down right rude to people under circumstances I don't always get the "why" of, but she also had her moments where you see her true heart for those she loves and even an instance or two of actual compassion for someone other than her inner circle.
Of course, she pushed the hard-ass cop routine too hard at times and the becoming-old quickly now trope of her past and how a crime scene...
So, yes, if Roarke is in it, I'm reading the next one.
This installment was an interesting twist for me.
I recognized that this was the start of Where It All Went Downhill for me the first time I read the series.
That being said, I didn't feel that the events of this book warranted that kind of reaction as much.
It even went so far as to bring one of the characters met in book 5's story into this one.
It was interesting to see the changes that book 5 had wrought on the character of Jamie.
All in all, it was an interesting read!
Finished another reread of Purity In Death.
As always, I love the character & relationship development.
There's a bit of a strain put on some relationships in this one - some rising from different core beliefs and others instigated by outside actions.
The case & police procedural is, as always, excellent.
Roarke joins the investigative team as the delivery of the crime is in his area of expertise, and he brings young Jamie in as his expert consultant to also work the case.
Some key side characters are hurt as this story plays out, raising the emotional & stress level to a new high.
Another Must Read in the In Death series!
I like this book even though it is kind of a "spin off" of Rapture, a bit more detail on the inner workings, but still.Seems like even today there is always a faction out there that believes everything they do is for the greater good regardless of their methods!Lots of twists and turns, and don't you just love to hate "Chang"!
Would love to see him recur somewhere down the road or at least find out what exactly happened to him.
Maybe he's issuing press releases from Saturn 5 or some such place :)Like that Jamie came back on board in this book, and that Trueheart is now assigned to Baxter.2 thumbs up and 5 stars!
AUDIO:The narrator speaks the writer’s words with total conviction. The delivery is genuine and she emotionally connects to the author's intent.The pace/tempo is spot on.The various characters' voices are perfectly matched. Each one with their own unique sound. Her accents perfectly define the characters.Very well done. Ms Ericksen has spoiled me for other narrators.
re-reading the whole series. Love it as much the second time around.
1st read: 12-16 May 20132nd read: 2-9 June 2015
His head starts to pound, he begins to get paranoid delusions about Sergeant Feeney, takes him hostage and it only ends when one of them is dead.
It starts to look like some sort of computer virus is physically affecting the people it is sent to.Purity in Death is another well written mystery/romance that takes place in future New York 2059.
Eve and her husband, billionaire entrepreneur Rourke, have a great relationship that is realistically written and filled with humor and love.
I plan to continue this fast, fun, and well written series.
Vay be kurgu yine muhteşemdi ya. Eve Dallas sanki gerçek bir insan da tanıyor gibiyim :D
Neste momento (15º livro) esta série está a ficar cada vez mais policial muito embora com os seus apontamentos de romance.
15th book in the series and it just keeps getting better.
The In Death books have not missed the mark yet.
The story keeps evolving, not just for Eve and Roarke, but for Mavis, Peabody, McNab, Trueheart and Baxter too.
Even Jamie, the teenage tech wiz and Roarke’s disciple, adds another dimension to the story.
It's funny to see Eve dealing with a teenager and her new "family" as they work to solve another crime.
This book is a turning point for Eve, because she is starting to ‘feel’, and her emotions are bubbling up to the surface…which makes her even better.
