https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/807968.Molly_Moon_s_Incredible_Book_of_Hypnotism
I enjoyed this book so much.
This book shares a story of a misunderstood, awkward orphan child, who discovers she possesses amazing "powers" and creates an incredible life for herself using a book of hypnotism.
She discovers that with this book, she has the amazing power to make people do things.
This book to me is more than just a funny story about an orphan who learns how to hypnotize people.
It turns into a moral children's story about exploitation, character, and learning to care for people.
While reading this book, you could learn a few important life lessons that will surely come in handy.
It had the elements of a fantasy, but yet when it was so unreal at times, at others it was just simply about this average potato-nosed, green eyed, skinny, akward looking girl named Molly.
By displaying how average Molly was, it made the elements of fantasy in the story seem more believable.
I found the story amazing, and enjoyed how the author gave importance to even the smallest things and details.
This book is one you'll see on the shelf and want to read again, simply because it's familiar and you enjoyed it.
I could really relate to this book, therefore making me enjoy it more.
And, each time I start it I attempt to savour every sentence, only to be drawn into it completely and have a marathon reading session for the last quarter of the book.
Tonight Molly felt that was certainly true about her life.
Ahead, the road shone like a silver ribbon in the moonlight, all the way home to Happiness House.The book follows the story of Molly Moon, an orphan abandoned at birth, as she finds a book that will literally change her life.
I love this element and I feel that it enhances the book, without detracting from Molly's story.
Orphan Molly Moon was found as a baby in a box marked 'Moon's Marshmallows'.For ten miserable years she's lived under the cruel rule of Miss Adderstone in grim Hardwick House. But her life changes overnight when she finds a mysterious book on hypnotism and discovers an amazing talent - the power to make people do anything she want them to.Escaping from the orphange, Molly flies to New York in search of fame and fortune. But her adventures in hypnotism lead her into the clutches of a dangerous enemy....
También me he visto totalmente dentro de la historia, pues la narración infantil pero detallada de la autora me ha hecho vivirla desde muy cerca y me he sentido un personaje más, allí, junto con Molly, Rocky, Petula y Nockman.
Es un villano que, a pesar de todo y por una serie de motivos, se hace querer mucho.Entraría en más detalles pero me siento tan feliz que no me salen más palabras.
Es maravilloso encontrar un libro que te enamore así, que seas capaz de vivirlo tan de cerca como si fuese real.
THERE'S GONNA BE A MOVIE!Molly Moon is an eleven year old British orphan who, at first, hates her life but then one day she stumbles upon a big book of hyonotism and discovers that she has a telent for hypnotizing people (the bad thing is that she steals the book).
This is a story that teaches you to be true to yourself and to be happy with what you have.I loved this book because it has well-made characters, a fantastic storyline, plenty of humour and it sucks you right in.
Some people say that Molly, as a character, isn't very likeable.
Adorable story! Brought back the good old childhood memories when I enjoyed reading Roald Dhal. Looking forward to reading the rest of this series.
It's a refreshing fantasy-adventure tale in that our young, parent-less heroine isn't trying to save the world from the ultimate evil (aren't you getting a little sick of that worn-out plot?) but instead escaping an awful life and having her every wish fulfilled.
Until, of course, she realizes that having your every wish fulfilled is never all it's cracked up to be.
True, it's a little cheeseball with the moral, but, like I said, I enjoyed it, and I don't doubt that many kiddos will too.
Additional side note: There's an ice cream shop in Seattle called Molly Moon's that has a dog in its logo.
I am far from being a kid, but I read this kids' book while on vacation because the house we were renting happened to have it.
Before I started, I thought it would be a poor rendition in the Harry Potter/magical/fantastical genre, but I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised and quite enjoyed it.
It's about a young girl in an orphanage who is typically picked on and made fun of.
Well-written and unique enough to stand on its own and apart from Harry Potter.
I recommend it if you like this type of book.
Molly Moon's Incredible Book of Hypnotism is about a girl who stumbles upon a hypnotism book. Molly practices and practices but she just has a natural talent so she doesn't have to practice very hard. She has a best friend, Rockey, who gets adopted without telling her! Molly winds up in New York City trying to find him. if you like page-turning mysteries, this is an amazing book and you will find yourself up for hours reading, I know I was. 5 stars -RGM
Before leaving, she buys a large gold pendulum, where the mysterious professor from the library learns about her, after he bought some anti-hypnosis glasses.Soon after arriving, Molly hypnotizes her way onto Broadway, landing the lead in a musical called "Stars on Mars".
He had previously stolen and learned from the missing chapters of Molly's hypnotism book, "Long Distance Hypnosis" and "Voice-Only Hypnosis".
However, it is implied that Nockman has returned to his old ways as he steals a camera, a lollipop and five pounds from children in the orphanage.At the end of the book, Molly is mysteriously summoned to the library by the librarian, Lucy Logan.
I read this because J.B. said it was the best book he's ever read and it's been awhile since I've read a chapter book at his level.I understand his enjoyment--story of plain, awkward orphan child who discovers she possesses amazing talents and skills and creates an incredible life for herself.
She becomes the moral superior of all of the adults.I find British stories about orphans who are mistreated by wicked adults to be so hackneyed.
“Oh, how I wish I could get back at Mom for making me eat lima beans.
We never picked it back up, and I figured it’d be a quick book to help me hit my 75-book goal (this one makes number 68, only 7 to go ) I remember we’d laughed and laughed until tears came into our eyes and my throat was hoarse from doing the voices and cackling so much.
Without her, however, I only chuckled a couple times and found myself wishing I was sharing it with her.
Hm. I was talking to one of my best friend's about this series, and how much I loved it when I was younger. I started off really enjoying this reread, but I quickly grew disenchanted with Molly's abuse of her hypnotic powers. Based on the character development she goes through during this first installment, I think I'm going to enjoy the other books in the series far more. Sadly, at the moment I'm feeling a little disappointed. Maybe I should stop rereading my favourite children's books, because it never seems to end well...
I don't remember much about this book except for the fact that i LOVED it.
Totul este incredibil de real, deși nici măcar Briersville sau Dr. Logan nu există cu adevărat.Te face să implori pentru mai mult.
Molly went downstairs and, since Miss Anderstone was of a bad humor today, then she told her to come to her office after breakfast.
Hazel said a bad comment about Edna's food and Edna got really mad, in that moment, Miss Anderstone told edna to come to her office after breakfast, the same as Molly.
she was about to give Molly a punishment when, Molly hypnotized her and obligated her to tell her where Rocky had went, but she only remembered he went to New York.
Professor Nockman had arrived to the airport and asked for the flight to New York but, unfortunately, the flight just boarded and took off.
I would read the books and feel that I was the character.
In fact-I couldn't really do anything else until I read the ENTIRE series.
And when that was over I actually cried slightly at the thought that there were no more molly moon books.
I thought it was the absolute perfect combination of magic, adventure, and humor.
I thought she was the absolute BEST writer ever.
J'ai emprunté Molly Moon à la bibliothèque scolaire de mon fils, où je suis bénévole.
J'ai trouvé que la traduction française était bonne, mais qu'elle utilisait des mots un peu compliqués (il faudrait que je compare avec la version anglaise...
parfois, c'est la lectrice qui s'exprime, d'autres fois, la traductrice!) ou carrément trop français de France.
Par exemple, à la page 451, Molly dis "Tais-toi, tu me fiches la pétoche." Je suis certaine que mon fils de 10 ans viendrait me voir en me demandant la signification du mot.
Loin de moi l'idée de niveller par le bas en voulant rendre la lecture des plus faciles, mais...
In this book, Molly lives a dismal life in the Hardwick Orphanage, and the owner is a cranky old lady, whose name is Mrs. Ardwick.
Mrs. Ardwick not fond of little children, but that is exactly what Molly is: a little girl.
She and Rocky have to face Mrs. Ardwick's bad temper, breath, and lots and lots of work.
But one day, when Molly is lolling around in the library, she finds a book about hypnotism.
Then, a mean, sinister man who also wants the hypnotism book for himself, follows Molly to LA, and hunts her down.
Molly Moon's Incredible Book of Hypnotism was a great book!
This book was adventurous and made me feel like I was there watching the whole thing happen!
Even when I was not reading the book, I still felt like I was In Molly's world.
The book was about a young orphan named Molly, who found the key to her life...
the book of hypnotism.
Ever since the book landed in Molly's hands, it had changed her life forever.
She had traveled from England all the way to New York, using her new skills of Hypnotism to get her way around things.
And if I do have to read about them, there better be a good payoff in the end."The payoff was there but it was way late and a dollar short.
I found none of the characters to be likable enough to inspire my attention and the moral, the lesson, the moment of redemption, remorse and reconfiguring, was not boldly drawn so as to make up for the pages and pages and pages of selfish, irresponsible behavior perpetrated by all of the book's characters.It was readable.
But I, like the reviewer quoted above, would have quit looooong before the end had I not read that there WAS a moral.
Watch as she uses her electric green eyes and drowsy voice to set people all over into trances.
Follow Molly as she puts people into trances and even uses her powers to rob a jewel bank!
This book is amazing, it teaches her how to control people only using her eyes!
Here she hypnotises her way to success but later deserts her glamourous life to go back to her life in england because her friends, almost like brothers and sisters need her help.
Put it this way...this book is good with spontanious and vindictive charactors.
The dull orphan of Hardwick House Orphanage is like aby ordinary orphan.
Molly Moon who has been in the orphanage since a baby was never adopted by any other visitor but has been in the orphanage for 12 years!
She seems quite fishy that librarian had some kind of powers causing Molly Moons to find the hynotizing book.
Ever since Molly had her hypnotizing powers she felt someone is always watching over her?
"Molly Moon Incredible Book of Hypnotism is like another version of Harry Potter you can see Molly's power and her discovery into the world of hypnotism!
I thought this book was really cute, but at the same time pretty sad.
Seriously, if I was Molly, I would totally rebel.
She is like a priest for having such tolerance for all of the disrespect and vulgarity she is given there.
On a brighter note, this book was cute, because you kind of got to explore the ambitions of a child living in a disgusting, poorly maintained/run orphanage.
It's really adorable how Molly talks about the Qube Soda ads she sees on billboards and on TV, and how she just longs for the moment where she gets her revenge on everyone who was disrespectful to her in the orphanage.
Molly Moon’s Incredible Book of Hypnotism by Georgia Byng is a children’s book that breaks all the rules.
When an agent or a publisher tells a writer that they cannot write about people smoking, or about children doing naughty things (like stealing and running away)…don’t listen to them, because this book has all these things and more.The author tells an interesting story about an orphan girl who finds an old book on Hypnotism in the local library.
However, all the “bad” things she does lead to a lesson to be learned and I felt the author tackled these issues quite well.The story is humorous, unusual and well written.
Molly Moon, Is a 12 year old girl who was living in a orrible orphanage run by the evil Mrs. Agnerstone.
She gave ridiculous punsishments to the smallest of things and paid particular attention to making Molly's life more horrible then ever in her orphanage Hardwick house.
Molly has been living there since she was jst a baby no more then a years old and she was found on the doorstep, her life was awful from that day on until she mysteriously fell upon a 100 yr old book in her library, that book was on hypnotism.
Grades: 4 to 6 Genre: AdventureMolly Moon is an orphan at the most miserable orphanage, Hardwick House, but her life takes a turn for the better when she finds a book on hypnotism in an unused corner of the library. Molly then uses this book to hypnotize her way out of the orphanage but she is not the only one who knows about the book and evil Professor Nockman will stop at nothing to get it for himself. Using the skills that she has learned, Molly sets out to find her best friend, Rocky, who go
Grades: 4 to 6	Genre: AdventureMolly Moon is an orphan at the most miserable orphanage, Hardwick House, but her life takes a turn for the better when she finds a book on hypnotism in an unused corner of the library.
Molly then uses this book to hypnotize her way out of the orphanage but she is not the only one who knows about the book and evil Professor Nockman will stop at nothing to get it for himself.
Along the way she gains fame by hypnotizing those around her.
A delightful tale of good and evil with the moral lesson that friends are always more important than fame.
Okay, well I started reading this book thinking it'd be a good read.
When Molly started using hypnosis, the book was getting better and better...
I skipped pages, just to finish it fast.
And what do I see when I skip a few pages?
The kids decide to stop using hypnosis and be fair.
Why can't someone finally write a book about people using their special powers for themselves and only for themselves, and that they're not a villain?
I'm giving this book one star for being fun at the beginning and the other one for the good writing.
