https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377494.The_Middle_Pillar
This work is core to the Regardie system.
Useful, but I can't totally get into it--too much generalization about the polarizing differences between the Western Tradition and the Mysterious East, too much vitriol even for someone who seems as generally affable as Israel Regardie.
I mean I will go back to it, and I definitely like the key statement that psychotherapy is maybe the first "ritual" someone should learn on their journey into magic, but for now, I don't know--I just never want to be reminded that I am reading a book written in the 1930s when I am actually doing that, which is obvs more my problem than Regardie's.
It is probably good and useful!)
If you want to know about the Middle Pillar, then this is the book for you.
It is essentially a manual for bringing about balance of mind and spirit through the use of a high magickal ritual called the middle pillar.
The concepts and methods here owe more than a little to Eastern philosophies and methods of mental training.
I've often thought of this book as viewing Buddhist and Hindu mind training techniques through the lens of Western psychology, layered with Qabbalistic trappings.
Like any serious practice of meditation, a life time could be devoted to Regardie's methods.
A hard read but worth many future read-throughs. The Middle Pillar is something that can be worked upon for many lifetimes and Dr Regardie lays out a solid foundation.
It covers aspects of subtle bodies, aura, subconscious mind, the working of symbols, rituals for cleansing and harnessing spiritual energy.The teachings here are a means to progress in the Order which manages humans to evolve in a system.
We recall that famous writers and authors of literature were initiated in this tradition, and had skills to control their subconscious mentality, thereby optimizing their powers of symbolic storytelling.The MIddle Pillar is also an essential reference point in CNF for the arrangement of the memoir to be an exalted style in literary writing.Rituals listed seem inadequate in the modern day, however it helps to recognize awareness exercises and body-mind quotients may be noted best practises in personal development.
A good introduction to Magic. There was a bit of psychology in here (which is the first time I recall seeing it in a magic book), but not as pervasive as I would have thought. Has some nice relaxation exercises that also do not show up in other magic books (including one with circulation that I don't believe I've seen anywhere).
It was amazing ! the same thought that Regadie possess and so I ! ther is a middle pillar between magic and mind they are to things one spiritual and one psychological . what I want to say is spiritual thing is used as psychological. and everything is not meant to be since.
Well the concepts are very interesting but the psychological parts were a bit on the dull side , that's just my opinion, I am a fan of philosophy and psychology however fusing them with spiritual practice is a bit odd..... Either way , Great explanations for Kabbalah ...
It was so long ago now, I barely remember it, to be honest, but I do recall finding it engrossing, at least. it occurs to me that Regardie did a bang-up job of describing basic Kabalistic principles in an organised and easy to comprehend manner.
The Middle Pillar is really good I you wanna learn in depth the quabalistic cross, banishing ritual of the pentagram, and the middle pillar ritual.
A lot of other books has the outline for these practices, but this is the only one that I have read that goes in depth with exactly what to expect and why the practices are important.
I'm not going to read the part by the Cicero's because they added more to the book then Regarde actually wrote, and if Regarde thought it was important it would be in the book.
The first consists of Isreal Regard's original "The Middle Pllar." The Second part are the Cicero's expansion titled "The Balance Between Mind and Magic." The work as a whole tries to make the case that Psychology and Magic are actually two sides of the same coin, and when used together can help one improve themselves.
These are "The Lesser Banishing Pentagram Ritual" and "The Middle Pillar." Those unfamiliar with Regardie's writing style may be put off by his rather florid and verbose style, but the book is also annotated throughout by the Ciceros.
This is one book that I can truly say I was happy to finally get to the end of!The Middle Pillar is often referred to as one of Regardie's classic texts, and - sure enough - it is interesting reading.
But, holy hell, is the Regardie-penned portion dry as old twigs.
Again, it depends upon your previous reading; there's a number of versions of both the Kabbalistic Cross and the Middle Pillar ritual, along with commentary which I've not seen previously, but I'm guessing any magician with previous experience will have already found their preferred version of these rituals.
I would suggest one have at least a modicum of background in Qabalah before starting this book but it isn't completely necessary.
Regardie explains clearly how to perform the Middle Pillar Exercise, which is essentially meditation + visualization + intonation of god names corresponding to each sephira, and also explains in detail how to perform suggested preliminary rituals, such as The Qabalistic Cross, and the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram (LBRP).
This book is for beginners, Regardie suggests trying out simple variations of the rituals initially and once mastered, to move on to more complex and potent variations of the rituals later.
It is by far one of the best books concerning Hermetic Kabbalah, Golden Dawn Magick and it comes right from the source, Frater A.M.A.G. The commentaries of the Ciceros both on the original text and to their second part of the book, which is half of the book, really help a lot not only to understand the practices and their importance, but they also provide various methods and exercises for the serious practitioner to experiment and work alone.
It is a really impressive book with a lot of energy from the Ciceros.
Great book.
I especially enjoyed the original by Regardie, and got a lot from it.
Especially the ritual of the Quabalistic cross, and the Middle pillar exercises.
The Ciceros add a lot to the book at the end, and give specific exercises for Regardies work.
The Ciceros resurrected a temple of the Golden Dawn in the 1980's.
I enjoyed their writing, but not so much as Regardie.
I will definitely be picking up Regardies other material.Some of the book, the part that focussed on psychoanalysis, was not as interesting as the metaphysical side.
I would recommend starting with one of his earlier works, perhaps the Tree of Life.
The first ~70 pages read like an incredibly stuffy dissertation on how magic and psychology are somewhat the same thing and how they can compliment one another. The start was boring but I don't blame the author as it would have been more interesting around when this was written ~60 years ago. Unless you have no familiarity with common psychological concepts or feel like a difficult crash course in all the moving parts of Qabala, I recommend skipping to the 3rd chapter where things become practical. The remainder of the book focuses on the rituals, which are intriguing...
One of Regardie's finest works. If you can find an older version of this book from a used bookstore or ebay, then definitely get a copy from the 70's or 80's. The Cicero's tainted Regardie's books in many ways with their editing. They also add extra chapters to this and other Regardie books which add absolutely nothing of value. Their arbitrary changes to some of the exercises (LBRP, Middle Pillar, etc) are appalling, IMO.
Regardie here presents a study which links yoga, psychology, qabbalah, Jungian archetypes and the basic of Hermetic rituals. For the student of any, here is a work which connects the totality and provides a wealth of guidance towards the ascension of the individuals mind towards higher states of function and Being.A core work for advancement of the self. A must for any.
I know I must hand it to this fellow for his foundational work in ceremonial magick, but so much of it is dated and does not align with my own beliefs and ideas. I am not a fan of psychoanalysis, and do not believe that one must undergo this sort of work before engaging in a magickal practice. I believe that shadow work is part of the practice itself. Just sayin.....
The Cicero's once again breathe new life into an old classic text. A must have on the shelf. The Cicero portion of the book contains numerous examples of and different uses of the qabalistic cross as well as the middle pillar exercise.
This book really digs deep into your soul. Ask yourself what you belive, then re-evaluate it. Philosophy, psycho-spiritual theory and modern magic. It's a bit wordy, a bit too annalitical for me, but I got a lot out of it. This is definately a book for advanced magik practioners.
The book that made Regardi a true occult legend, in his own right. The Middle Pillar is essential for the study of the Western Tradition
You have to read it AND practice the exercise. Very simple yet VERY profound material.
Another book from my religion/occult phase. A much more practical book than The Golden Dawn. Not that I'm into all of the magical aura stuff, but an interesting read nonetheless.
A must. Regardie's enthusiasm is an intiation unto itself.
An incredible lightning craft from Israel Regardie. Simple and concisious.
