https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160010.The_Return_of_the_Soldier
"I heard, amazed, his step ring strong upon the stone, for I had felt his absence as a kind of death from which he would emerge ghostlike, impalpable."Two women await the return of a soldier, Chris, from World War I.
I felt this wasn’t so much a commentary about the war itself as it was a critique of the social classes and expectations of the day as well as an examination of truth and love.
Jenny is so assured that she and Kitty have secured Chris’s happiness through their material wealth and beauty.
Rebecca West was apparently the first woman to write of the Great War. And this taut short novel from 1918 tells of Chris, a young English soldier with memory loss, robbing him of the last 15 years.
West also tackles the idea of love, and how time can take it's toll on those involved directly, you do wonder if Chris and Kitty's relationship would survived, regardless of his shell shock.
You were taking your chance and you might be killed and you weren't in that pampered sort of unnatural state.—Rebecca West (in a 1981 interview with the Paris Review)I kept thinking of this quote when I was reading The Return of the Soldier, because I feel like it's a novel that comes out of that mixture of anger and guilt that Rebecca West is talking about – anger at the complacency of civilians, and guilt at the idea that you are one of them.
He returns to England with no memory of the last 15 years, desperate to see his youthful (and lower class) love, Margaret, who is also now married to someone else.The story is really about the three women, their relationship with Charles, each other and their attitude to his condition.
MEMORY LOSSThe pain of confusion caused by memory loss is the most obvious: "all the inhabitants of this new tract of time were his enemies, all its circumstances his prison bars" and "his loss of memory was a triumph over the limitation of language which prevents the mass of men making explicit statement about their spiritual relationships".More strangely, Jenny idolises Charles far too much for a platonic cousin, though oddly, it doesn't seem to cause any friction.
This review contains spoilers.Chris Baldry is the soldier in the novel, an English soldier returning from the battlefield of WWI, and he is suffering shell-shock which has erased the last 15 years of his memory.
He is returning to three women; Kitty, his wife who he does not remember at all; Jenny, his cousin, who lives in the household, who he remembers as a younger girl; and Margaret, a girl he loved in his youth and believes now that he still loves.
It seemed to me that two of the three women are in love with him, neither of them his wife.
Il luogo è una magnifica dimora, dove le prime due figure femminili attendono l'agognato ritorno.
Molto diversa l'altra, Margaret, "la cui personalità risplendeva nello squallore, proprio come una bella voce che risuona in una stanza buia" ; "passava accanto andando verso il giardino, con le mani protese in avanti, come se portasse doni invisibili" .L'incidente subìto dall'uomo diventa anche l'accorgimento letterario per smascherare la dimensione umana delle protagoniste poste di fronte alla 'prova del fuoco' , perché la potenza dell'amore (con la sua componente anche 'materna') giunge dove la scienza non arriva.
Finally what fascinated me was the theme, the book's central question.
How those of one social class view those of another is shown through movements, through thoughts and through words.
I do not want to tell you much about the central theme.
The beauty of the book is how perfectly West envelops the reader in the dilemma.
The three women are perfectly portrayed - one as a dear friend with a tinge of jealousy, one as the legitimate wife and one who cares and loves and is self-effacing.
Thank goodness I tried another by Rebecca West.
It’s short enough to read during a pedicure, but the emotional wallop it packs demands a better setting — perhaps a conservatory .
Regardless of where you read it, though, it’s an absolutely haunting story.
Chris’s wife Kitty and his cousin Jenny receive an unusual visitor — Mrs. William Grey, a woman "repulsively furred with neglect and poverty".
A letter to cousin Jenny the following day confirms that Chris has indeed been wounded and is coming home to recover; the kicker is he’s suffering from amnesia and thinks it’s 15 years earlier.
But who is this woman, Mrs. Grey?
And how is Chris to recover from such a strange ailment?
Meh. The writing was good but I was pretty disappointed in the ending.
“…I sat in the hall and wrote letters and noticed how sad dance music has sounded ever since the war began.”It’s World War I, and while the men go off to fight, the women engage in their own power struggles.
And if those wishes are suppressed by the superficial self—the self that makes, as you say, efforts and usually makes them with the sole idea of putting up a good show before the neighbours—it takes its revenge.”
I like these kinds of stories when you have be deduce what is the underlying themes or motivations of the characters for behaving this way or that way.As an added bonus, however, I also suspected that West wrote this from the point of view of Jenny who was like a bystander (mistress) watching the Chris (Wells) having to choose between his former sweetheart (first wife Isabel Mary) and wife (second wife Jane Robbins).
She drew out the emotion of the narrator, Jenny, from her own heartaches.I will definitely hunt for other Rebecca West's books.
Written as a third person narrative, the story talks of the life of Chris, shifting between past and present touching on his past relationship with his former love, Margaret, his present status of not remembering the last fifteen years of his life, his struggle to accept the changes that had taken place in the last fifteen years of his life, including his marriage and wife of which he has no memory.
His cousin Jenny, who is the narrator, struggles with her own dear feelings for Chris, whose primary desire is to see him happy.
What a wonderful moving book , one that will stay with me for a long time.A re-read for Armistice 2018!
It can be seen as a treatise on what war does to those who fight it and those who await their return, a tale about the degrees of love people experience and the sacrifices they are willing (or unwilling) to make for the good of one another, or a tragedy about the irrevocable loss of youth and innocence and the longing of the soul to recapture that time.
Trata acerca de Chris, un soldado con neurosis de guerra que padece amnesia y que cuando regresa a casa del frente durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, de su memoria ha borrado a su bella esposa, Kitty, con la que lleva conviviendo quince años, reconoce a su prima Jennie que vive con ellos pero como compañera de infancia, y solo recuerda claramente a Margaret, su primer amor, de quince años antes de haberse casado con Kitty, y con la que quiere estar.
La voz narradora es la de la prima Jennie, que hace gala de tal grado de esnobismo en ciertas situaciones que me costó digerirlo.
This slim volume contains an entire era and acts as a spokesperson for a generation of men lacking a voice of their own. This was a poignant and painful read, on times, but told an important story with the most beautifully evocative and empathetic of language. I was enthralled in the characters and the almost voyeuristic insight into the historical gentry.
"Pegou nela ao colo, levou-a por entre as colunas e depô-la num nicho acima do altar.
Um intenso raio de luar iluminou-a, e naquele momento era impossível determinar se os seus cabelos eram brancos como prata ou amarelos como ouro, e ele sentiu de novo a exultação de saber que era indiferente se fossem brancos.
Então, as colunas que tão duras se erguiam contra a trémula maré do luar estremeceram e desapareceram.
E ele jazia num mundo odioso em que novelos de arame farpado exibiam confusos nós contra um céu lívido, atravessado por ruídos atroadores, salpicos de fogo e vozes a gritarem por água, e sentia nas costas dores horríveis ao ser transportado pelos maqueiros."

Savaşın izlerini erkeklerin gözünden değil de, geride kalanların gözünde anlatması farklı ve hoş bir bakış açısı. Tasvirlerin okuyucuda bıraktığı 19. yy. Balzac romanlarındaki kır dünyası imgesi 1918 tarihli bu romanda beni şaşırtan bir başka durum. Elbette pastoral İngiliz dünyası, savaşa giden erkek ve geride bekleyen kadın Ian McEwan'in Atonement'ı ve kitabın filminde sürekli tekerrür eden "Come back to me" cümlesi ile zihnime daha bir başka nakşoldu. Yine de kitap, bıraktığı hoş, sürükleyici ve naif, bol imge ve duyguyla örülü dünyası dışında, bende nedense güçlü bir roman izlenimi bırakmadı.
All I knew about this story was it was written by Rebecca West and it was about a soldier from World War 1.
I am still thinking about all the story conveyed and how Rebecca West brought out the human element with such beautifully mastered writing, that several times I had to take a step back and re read a passage.
In brief all I will tell you is, #1 it was written by Rebecca West and #2 it is about a soldier from World War 1, you go on the reading ride.
I've got nothing against love or coffee..
The story here is about black coffee,sorry,true love..
That we become blind when we fall in love is described by the author as,"“I reflected, while Kitty shrilly wept, how entirely right Chris had been in his assertion that to lovers innumerable things do not matter.”Her picture of love between Chris and Margaret is so beautiful..
Never had I been taken in by the beauty of words creating lively images..
Throughout the book,one can find beautiful examples like this..
But this way,the beauty of their love shines more..
The husband's cousin is living with the wife and seems to sit around with constantly wet eyes thinking about "their Chris".
And then the wife (Kitty) finds out that her husband who she loves is wounded with amnesia/shell shock and does not recall her or their life together.
But after being told by the 20th person around that things had changed, all he wanted to do was sit around and be around his old love Margaret.
I think in that instance Jenny realized what would happen if her and Kitty got "their Chris" back.
Beautifully delivered novella set during WW1. On face value it's a simple enough story, Chris Baldry returns home after suffering the horror of the trenches. Descriptive and atmospheric, wonderful characterisation which is unusual in a story of this length. The last line pulled me up short, it did pack an emotional wallop.
Yes, I appreciate its historical significance in being the first novel written about the Great War by a woman.
Yes, the plot hints at something wonderful.
And, yes, I found the ending surprisingly good.
Mostly because, unlike the majority of the book, the action at the end was shown rather than told through unending descriptions and thoughts of what was likely happening.
In the end, I found this a rather dull attempt to delve into the depths of human emotions, and there are many other books that tackle these issues and not at the expense of the plot and characters.
I'm still in that haze of amazement after you read something that is unexpectedly superb. The gorgeous sumptuously turned sentences that make a treasure even of disdain. The layers of emotion. This may be an entirely perfect piece of writing. I can't believe I didn't come across it in one of my classes. I should have. But then of course I wouldn't have had the delight of discovering this tiny glittering trove.P. S. Elizabeth Klett does an extraordinary reading for Librivox.
Baldry is brought home, and is indifferent to his wife; a little less so to his cousin, who he does remember, albeit as a young woman – but he spends his time with Margaret.
Meanwhile his wife, Kitty, desperately wants him restored to normality.There is an understated lyricism in West’s writing that makes the book poignant and vivid.
Jenny and Kitty meet Margaret for the first time, when she first calls at the Baldry house: She wore a yellowish raincoat and a black hat with plumes.
Kitty, the spurned wife, calls in a series of doctors to try to bring back his memory and restore him to normal.
West examines the relationships between a shell-shocked soldier returned from the trenches of World War I and three women important to him. Her canvas is small, focusing only on these four characters, yet the wider background of the chaos of war and of changing society is implicit throughout. Every phrase is beautifully turned; there are no wasted or unimportant words. The conclusion is relentlessly moral, but so powerfully honest that it's far from preachy. The Return of the Soldier is a short novel, less than a hundred pages, but it packs a powerful punch.
Wells liked the ladies and apparently thought he wore pants made of glass (see various, including Philip Gooden).
West apparently liked the men.
Their child was Anthony Panther also called Anthony West.
Apparently in later years, Wells and West disagreed about whether the child was planned or not, with West claiming at one point Wells had impregnated her to keep.
Their child apparently was quite bitter later in life.
Goodreads was prior this policy change a place for readers to find this information, so they could make an informed buying decision.
Goodreads will no longer be a place where you can learn from book reviews.
Dismissed for far too long, this is a quick and compelling read with three moments of memorable beauty.
Margaret is an all-timer of a character and the moment of her meeting with Chris is extraordinary (to avoid spoilers, I can't really talk about the plot at all.
There is essentially one plot move in this book, and it's a cliche, yes, but it's worth finding for yourself).
The protagonist is pleasantly effaced.Now, the psychoanalytic drama seems a bit naive, West seems to change her mind about a character in mid-book, and there's a fantasy sequence that did some damage, but overall I'm hugely impressed.
In many ways this book is old-fashioned, romantic nearly to the point of being sentimental.
Published in 1918, this novel (novella?) is about a wealthy Englishman who returns from the trenches with an unlikely case of PTSD that's caused him to forget the past fifteen years of his life.
The first thing I wanted to do once I finished was write an English paper about it, which is strange, and absolutely never happens to me.
If you're looking for an early-twentieth-century novel to write a really lovely English paper on, definitely check this one out.
Check it out anyway, even though you're not.
