https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77767.Little_House_on_the_Prairie
“There's no great loss without some small gain.”   If only we lived and loved in Laura's time...I get hugely nostalgic for every time I read the Little House books. One of my favorite aspects about this series is that Wilder writes these novels in such a way that I feel like I lived through them.  In the West the land was level, and there were no trees. The grass grew thick and high. There the wild animals wandered and fed as though they were in a pasture that stretched much farther than a man
If only we lived and loved in Laura's time...I get hugely nostalgic for every time I read the Little House books.
Laura and her family left behind their little cabin in Wisconsin and set off for  new lands and new adventures.
For example, she becomes obsessed with seeing a little papoose (an Indian baby) and when she finally sees one - she quickly realizes that seeing one was not enough.
“Pa, get me that little Indian baby … Oh, I want it!
Despite the racism of the times, Laura's elegant, yet simple words bring such a profound sense of wonder and adventure to life in a one room cabin.
But it's for that very reason that the value of the book needs to be questioned.While much of the story focuses on a family's self-reliance on the Kansas prairie, the book preceding it - Little House in the Big Woods - does the same with the exception that the Ingalls family was integrated into a functioning Wisconsin community of relatives and neighbors.
(I'm not at all surprised it was written in the 1930's.) My third grade class was outraged at the injustice of the U.S. government telling the Ingallses to abandon their self-made cabin for the Indians, yet no one was outraged in the beginning when they arrived and no one was asked to question this.
I recently read this to my young son, and he couldn't get enough.
He's a kid who loves nothing more than to spend all day in the woods building forts, so perhaps it's not surprising that he took to this book.
The relationship of the family to the natural world--the great prairie that they move to--is fascinating, as is their relationship to the Indians.
I struggled with what to do about those passages.
They were mostly the characters speaking, so one approach would have been to read it and then pause to critique, but I wasn't sure my son was quite old enough to appreciate that.
I skipped over those passages.
"Little House on the Prairie" is the story of the Ingalls family -- Pa and Ma, Laura, her sister Mary and her baby sister Carrie -- taking a covered wagon all the way from Wisconsin to Kansas at about 1870.
But after a year there, Pa gets upset at news that Washington has decided to move the white settlers out of Indian Territory, and the family abruptly packs up the wagon and leaves the cabin behind, heading back to Wisconsin.I'll start with what I liked about the book, which is the story of the wagon trip and the actual homesteading.
Little House on the Prairie would, in my opinion, be a good starting point for discussions, although I do realise the book could also be used and likely has been used by those against Native Americans to bolster and justify their own prejudices (however, this can be and has been the case with many, if not most controversial books, and will likely remain thus).Frankly, while I have more than a bit of trouble with the way Native Americans are depicted and the attitudes shown towards them (I especially find the often glowing descriptions of Caroline Ingalls a bit hard to stomach, as she is really quite the stereotyper, much more so than Charles Ingalls, although not on the same level as the Scotts), I do very much appreciate the fact that Laura Ingalls Wilder has not tried pretend that attitudes towards Native Americans were different and more positive (if she had, for example, written stories about the Ingalls family becoming close to and good friends with their Native American neighbours, although this might feel more acceptable to our modern sensibilities, it also would be, for the most part, woefully and perhaps even dangerously anachronistic).
I bought the CD of this story for my 4 year old daughter and have spent many days listening to it in the car with her.This book should clearly be renamed "Pa's follies" as the entire story is about him bumbling from one misadventure to the next....1.
Pa leads the family across a frozen lake Peppin.
By the luck of one day the Ingalls family is spared a frozen death.2.
Pa nearly drowns the entire family crossing a creek into the Indian country.3.
Pa drops a log on Ma while building their house nearly breaking her leg.6.
Mr. Scott nearly dies while helping to build the Ingalls well when Pa doesn't check for gas.9.
Some say Pa was crazy for moving his family away from the Big Woods where they had a solid footing, but the settler's spirit is responsible for the growth and development of our country and is still the heart of the American way.
Mrs. Wilder's detailed descriptions of the hard work and difficulties fill me with awe and respect.
It was such a different world in so many ways, but still I can relate to the deep family love and commitment that shines through on every page.A word about some reviews knocking her for her politically incorrect treatment of Native Americans: We can and should be disturbed by history.
Please let us not rob our children of the hard truth.
Fried Apples and a Lesson in RacismI loved this series when I read them around ten years ago.
And then her father talks about how the government is going to push back or kill the Indians, so they don’t have to worry.So now, what was once an adorable story about pioneers that all children love; to an adult, can become a political issue, as it was in the book, Killers of the Flower Moon that came out after I read this book.
So I asked members of our book group if they liked pioneer stories, some of us are Indian or part Indian.
So entertaining and so racist.Is this the book where we start to learn how flawed Ma and Pa really are? Pa is certainly a happy-go-lucky guy with no foresight - taking his wife and daughters away from their family into the middle of nowhere (which by the way belongs to Indians), almost getting them drowned, burned and sick of malaria. And Ma, only concerned with propriety and never saying "no" to Pa's foolish ideas. I'd be really worried to be married to someone like Pa, even though he plays his fiddle well and is handy with an axe.
A honey-covered lullaby of a book! Yum! Slurp! Racism never went down so good! Beautifully written, and read aloud by a champ -- but Whoa, Bessie! -- even the characters express a smidgen of ambivalence about wresting land from the natives. "Won't the Indians be mad, Pa?" And what's with the child wanting her father to steal a Native American baby for her?
Little House on the Prairie is the second novel in the series, the first being Little House in the Big Woods.
Written by Laura Ingalls Wilder, the Little House books are semi-autobiographical and are told from young Laura's point of view.
Yes, they are children's books, and they are written in a very simplistic style, maybe overly so for the adult reader, but perfectly suited for children.
I don't think there is any doubt that the popular television series has really helped the book's perception.
For me, similar, but not quite on the same level with Little Women and Anne of Green Gables.
I can vividly remember the first time I read this book.
I was sleeping over at my best friend Mary's house when I was about seven or eight years old.
This was strange to me, as nights at my house were totally quiet.
So, the noise and the mild homesickness added up to a sleepless night for little Bethie.
So, after Mary went to sleep, I picked up "Little House on the Prairie" off her bookshelf.
That wouldn't be the last time I stayed up all night reading a great book.
Sure, the Indians are portrayed as savages who steal and threaten, and the Ingalls family (who had set up housekeeping illegally in the Indians' territory) make absolutely no attempt to understand or really communicate with them.
Perhaps our great-grandchildren will.And if the Ingalls family were anything to go by, those settlers were as ballsy as they were naive.
If nothing else, this little book gives you an idea of the difficulties and dangers of homesteading and portrays just how frightening the plains must have appeared to the hapless women and children who got dragged into their menfolk's big adventure.
I think Laura honestly portrays the attitudes of the day and she lays out the racism for all to see.
I don't like it, but that is how it was.The thing I find so damning about the story is that these people called this Indian country.
I understand why Caroline was so scared of these Indians coming into her house, but she moved to their land and then balks at them.
I never knew this book was so much about Indians, but that is really what it's about.
What _is_ there to say about Laura Ingalls Wilder's fiction/memoir accounts of growing up in the period of American expansion and homesteading?
A lot - at least 7 volumes' worth, in Ingalls Wilder's own series.
It's easy to categorize Ingalls Wilder's series as "children's" literature, but her books are also documents of an indomitable feminine spirit, a woman's relation of the American experience in a time when "high" literature focuses only on the cities of the East, dismissing the westward push as fledgling cities of the plain.But there is nothing plain about the Little House books.
This book just made me feel like the laziest person in the universe. When I have a day where I'm hurt and can't do any "real" work, I don't build a rocking chair.
For years, I wanted to BE Laura Ingalls Wilder.
I read all the books and wrote my own biography of Laura when I was nine.
What did I love about the Little House books?
I loved the adventure: the idea of moving slowly across the wilderness with all of my family's belongings in one small wagon was deeply appealing.
I loved the idea of living in the past.
The Ingalls family could not stay in Indian Territory and Laura is the one who becomes an internationally known author, while the rest of the ladylike girls disappear into obscurity.
One of the great American classics, depicting Laura and her family’s move from Wisconsin to Kansas in 1868.It’s a great snapshot of the time period as the family start to settle in the area.From building their own home to falling ill with malaria.
I expected to be inspired by the tales of simple pioneering life. I did not expect the fear of Indians and being massacred to be a significant theme and I found I skipped bits when reading this to my young children.
I let my daughter rate this one after finishing it. :) Good memories in the making, reading to my kiddos!
Loving my reread of this series. Have SO many thoughts about these books, some of which have to do with the fact that there are portions that are difficult to take in as a modern reader, but I maintain its importance as "a book to read" on a variety of levels. This book in particular makes me want to pick up some other books that can give some wider historical context for the time in which it takes place.
Ahh, such happy classics. I am so looking forward to reading these to my own kids, someday! :)
I am hoping to review all the Little House books in the order I read them, so even though Little House on the Prairie is the second in the series, it was first for me.
I was seven years old when I first read it, and my family had just moved from Manhattan to Queens, primarily so that I could attend a better school.
Amongst the girls, Little House was the big favorite, so I jumped right in.To tell the truth, I’m not 100% sure that Little House on the Prairie was my first chaptered book.
Since I saw the show first, reading this book felt like revisiting old friends, and having them retell a story I already knew but with details I had missed.
I loved seeing the Ingalls build a new life for themselves on the prairie, and I can’t even imagine having to leave everything I had build to start again somewhere unknown.I read so much as a child, but I still managed to miss so many books.
I never really grew up, and I can revert back to that place of childlike joy and wonder when I read something new and wonderful.
This will forever be one of my favorite childhood stories. It tells of such a realistic and dangerous story, but with such a beautifully innocent touch that I will definitely never forget.
It is clear to me that Laura, writing as an adult, understood the problems with what her family was doing at the time - moving into Indian Territory - and that she to some extent understood the perspective of the Indians.
Won't that make them angry?" The Native Americans in this book behave in a way that does not make sense to Laura and her family which led to a lot of discussion in our house about cultural conventions and cultural differences.
My nine-year-old and I had a lot of great discussions about this book (sometimes after the other two went to bed) and I think she really gets it.
This was just as enjoyable to read as an adult as it was as a child.
It brought back a little of my childhood but made me realise also how much more complicated our lives have become not because they have to be but because we have made them that way.
Life was harsh and difficult back then but it was also much simpler and there was more joy in the every day things.
Now we need more and more and we are still not satisified.
The story of Laura and her family is one that will be enjoyed by many generations to come, I'm sure.
Although I did read this book before quite recently, there were a lot of parts I didn't remember about this book that I enjoyed. I loved reading about the trip on the covered wagon, the bridge and story with Jack (that's always been one of my favorite parts of this book). But my favorite part of the story, by far, is when Mr. Edwards comes and gives the girls their presents from "Santa Claus". So cute!!! Overall, lovely book. So glad I re-read it! Five stars out of five.
SynopsisPart autobiography, part fiction, this book tells the story of a pioneer family settling in Indian Territory in the plains of the American Southwest.ReviewThis American classic can problematic to modern readers.
The constant optimism sometimes feels refreshing and at other times feels grating.One surprising element of the book is the way it addresses the issue of Native Americans.
At the beginning of the book, Pa decides to settle several miles into Indian Territory with assurances from the U.S. government that it will soon be opened to settlers.
The feeling of manifest destiny and fear of Native Americans is realistic for white pioneers at the time.
I have so much love for this family and what joy they have brought me as a child and now for my own daughter!
