https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95072.Love_Lies_Bleeding
Crispin's the writer who slipped more polysyllables into the whodunnit genre than any other. He occasionally runs so beautifully away with the language that it feels as though either he'd really rather not be writing crime novels, or he's forgotten that he is. For those who care, he delivers slippier & more satisfying plots than you've a right to demand, and for those who don't, he leaves you feeling you've had the kind of wonderful conversation you were worried you'd never have.
Se tratan de novelas protagonizadas por el profesor de Lengua y Literatura en Oxford y detective aficionado Gervase Fen, excéntrico, inteligente y perspicaz como pocos.
Sus casos tienen que ver con misterios y crímenes a puerta cerrada, en los que se analizan las pruebas y pesquisas minuciosamente, pasando por interrogatorios, pistas falsas y revelaciones varias, hasta llegar a una explicación final pormenorizada.En ‘Trabajos de amor ensangrentados’ (Loves Lies Bleeding, 1948), nos encontramos en el Instituto de Castrevenford, donde Fen ha sido invitado para la entrega de premios y diplomas.
Pero unos atroces hechos van a empañar los festejos: dos profesores han sido asesinados y una alumna ha desaparecido.
Such an inventive and well-constructed book. Some of the conclusion did seem very obvious, but only when it was revealed; before that, I was enraptured, and made no guesses as to what had happened, as I ordinarily do. A very enjoyable piece of crime fiction; an absorbing, intelligent, and surprisingly quick read.
I finished the book last night and loved it.
First of all it was set at a boys school.
I don't know why they call them public schools when they're really private and cost money?
Fewer chemicals in them." I can't tell you how much I laughed.This is my idea of a traditional cozy English mystery and I was entertained from the moment I picked it up until I finished.
Where you could read about two funnier characters than Brenda and Elspeth?
It was quite a fun read.
Edmund Crispin's books, while being great golden age detective stories, are also remarkably literary.
I even had to reach for the dictionary for some enlightenment on one particular word I'd never heard of in this book.
Crispin's detective, Gervase Fen, is an enormously likeable individual - a scholarly Oxford don who is perfectly suited to unpicking the intricacies of this particular puzzler which centres around the unexpected discovery of a long lost Shakespeare manuscript.
Set in a private boys school, the body count is high and the plot is practically impenetrable.
Indeed, it takes Fen over 30 pages to detail whodunnit, why and how.
A nicely written story with a thoroughly idiosyncratic hero.
Gervase Fen, language and literature professor, is called upon to perform some discreet detective work at Castrevonford School: two people have been murdered the night before the school's Speech Day, and the headmaster wants the case solved quietly.
Fen calls upon his knowledge as a professor to solve the case, which eventually involves a lost Shakespeare manuscript as well as a missing schoolgirl and the aforementioned murder victims.This is an excellent example of Golden Age detective fiction.
It does take three whole chapters before the murders occur, but apart from that, the book is brilliant.
Gervase Fen visits a school for a lecture and finds 3 murders and a kidnapping in less than 24 hours! Though not as wild as some of his earlier works, there's lots of fun to be had and I laughed out loud several times while reading it. Highly recommended it.
This is the first book that I have reas by this author, but it won't be the last. The writing is witty and the mood is light, for a murder mystery. All in all it was an enjoyable read.
He listened in stupefaction to what she had to tell him...He rang off, controlling himself with difficulty, and turned to Galbraith..."It's Love," he said.
It would be wrong to say that he disapproved of pleasure, but he was inclined to regard it as a necessary medicine to be taken at specified times, in specified doses.""A man whom there were none to praise and very few to love," Fen remarked sadly..."What about his private life?" "Was he married?" "Yes. His wife's a wispy, mousy little woman; all the character rubbed out of her, I suspect, by years of ministering to him." Later on, Love is described by the doctor as 'domineering in an insidious, underhand sort of way.'"...Somers.
Crispin no fue exactamente de dicho club pero es, inequívocamente, una muestra espléndida de dicho género, sobre todo por su capacidad de crear tramas detectivescas de alto nivel y poblar sus obras de referencias metaliterarias que hacen que los disfrutes aún más si cabe.En “Trabajos de amor ensangrentados” tenemos otro ejemplo magnífico de su buen hacer con una trama que, desde el título, tiene resonancias “shakespereanas” que utiliza con frecuencia a lo largo de la obra.El caso comienza, aunque parezca mentira, con un simple hecho, el nerviosismo de una muchacha en un campus:“-Nada más.
(The one in my final year, which I did not attend because of university entrance interviews, was easily the most lively: the headmaster unexpectedly declared that with government interference it was no longer possible for the school to offer a good education, and effectively resigned.) At Castrevenford, where this novel is set, the event is just as dull, and also contains a play and a sports demonstration.Speech day in the year in which Gervase Fen, Professor of English at Oxford and amateur detective, gave the prizes was of course (this being a crime novel) distinguished by the murder of two teachers at the school and the disappearance of a pupil from the girls' school connected to Castrevenford.
4/5En esta nueva entrega de la serie, la prestigiosa escuela Castrevenford (emplazada en las inmediaciones de un encantador pueblecito inglés) se convertirá en el centro de una rocambolesca e intrincada pesquisa justo el día antes de celebrar su fiesta de graduación.
'Trabajos de amor ensangrentados' cuenta con numerosas virtudes, pero una de las cosas que más me gustan de estas novelas protagonizadas por Fen es que te atrapan desde su mismísimo comienzo gracias a la prontitud con la que se plantea el caso, el rastro constante de pistas que va desvelando la trama y el refinado estilo (infinidad de referencias culturales incluidas) con el que Crispin nos deleita página tras página.Reseña completa: http://generacionreader.blogspot.com....
Ah yes, the joy of memories of the school Shakespeare play.
Fen does well and truly belong in the world of a Russell group university; so there’s definitely a frisson of excitement about his translation to a younger, more hormonal, educational year in the public (private) school sector.
Crispin’s exquisite description of Mr Etherage ‘expounding the technics of demonology and black magic’ to the Modern Sixth could have come out of Hogwarts, except that it predates it.This is a tale of murder with a sharp yet whimsically understated sense of the humour of survival.
This story passes the most important test--it's very re-readable.
Crispin (aka Bruce Montgomery) was primarily a composer, but wrote much better than most people who consider themselves, well, writers.
He can go from tragedy to the Keystone Kops and back again within a page or two.
This story offers multiple murders, a missing manuscript which may or may not be a lost Shakespeare play, a truly comic-epic chase scene to rival the one that ends The Pink Panther, and some practical advice (a tip on how to avoid sneezing if you're trying to lurk clandestinely somewhere--I've tried it myself--the tip, not the lurking--and it works).
The story is intricate, but the characters didn't vary enough in personality to bring them to life.
Granted this was my first Gervaise Fen. The reveal at the end went on forever.
By that point, I didn't care who dunnit.
I know it's my own fault for not having the attention span required for this one and I was finishing it up outside with the neighbor's kids and their friends playing.
Still, not sure I'd rush to read another.
I sure wish I had read this on Kindle or Kobo so I could look up the many, many unfamiliar words used.
I actually loved that part - learning new words.
Very enjoyable entry in the Gervase Fen series. I like books in school settings, and this one doesn't disappoint! Fen (and Crispin) are in fine form, the humor is present and the solution, while clear once Fen expostulates, was a surprise to me.
Bettie's Books
I always enjoy this classic series. Gervase Fen is a unique, if somewhat exasperating, character and the public school setting in this entry was quite interesting.
Gervase Fen arrives at the English boys' school, Castrevenford, to fill in as speaker for Speech Day. Earlier, the Headmaster had been visited by the Head of the girls' school because one of her girls, Brenda, was clearly upset about something that had happened after rehearsal the previous evening, but wasn't talking.
The local policeman, Stagge arrives, but Fen appears to be better at investigation.
At first, there doesn't seem to be any motive for any of the murders, and they don't even appear to be connected.
However, this last murder finally reveals the motive and connections.
Early in the first chapter I realized I had read this previously but kept reading because I couldn't remember the plot.
With two murderers, three murders and an abduction, the plot gets confusing from the beginning.
If you decide to read it, have a dictionary handy or read it on Kindle so you can look up the meanings of the archaic words the author uses.
Occasionally you'll find a word that isn't defined and I suspect the author made them up to seem smarter than the reader.

Golden age look at a UK boys school. I was going to jot down some of the words the author sprinkles through the book, words I've never heard before but just found them amusing and you get the jest from the sentence. What we have is 3 murders and a kidnapping but we have to wait awhile before we find out why. Keep track of all the characters for Fen does a great job of explaining all at the end. On to the next Fen.
Very decent mystery but the principal attraction (Or repellant,depends on the readers appetite) is the prose style . I came across quite a few dozen words that I have not encountered before and had to resort to the big brothers help(i.e Google).However,the writing style is very amusing for the most part and that is the reason I am planning to read a few more from Crispin. The mystery itself was complex enough but the long exposition at the end tested my patience a bit .
A very good mystery read, as long as you put down the book once it is resolved. The last 28 pages are exposition... completely unnecessary. A few tidbits thrown in at the end that might make it more interesting. But on the whole long-winded once the crime was resolved.Liked the characters, which all seemed very tangible and real. And on the whole very entertaining. Would be interested to see it in movie or tv show form (abridged of course).
I might upgrade this to five stars, depending on how many people I recommend this to. Love Lies Bleeding has everything I love about Gervase Fen mysteries: literary puns and in-jokes, fourth wall breaks, humour, fair play. The detective is even incorrect about a supposition and admits it in the denouement explanation.
Prepare yourself: Crispin loves words. A few used in this book: inexorable (repeatedly), nugatory, supine, amanuensis, exiguous, and eremitical (which I had to look up.) But what would one expect from a novel in which the EXACT definition of "ambiguous" is a clue to the mystery.
The story involves a boy's school, a lost Shakespearean manuscript and three murders. Gervase Fen, Crispin's detective, is a witty and likeable Oxford don. The story is well written and is a nice golden age mystery.
A wordy and clever story first published in 1948 with a vocabulary that will send one to the dictionary every other page.
Probably my favorite Fen book so far
Me ha parecido flojita comparada con otras novelas de la serie del profesor Gervase Fen.
