https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13066.Sick_Puppy
However, most of it is focused on Twilly Spree and his anger when he sees a litterbug on a Florida highway toss garbage out his window.
Twilly is independently wealthy due to an inheritance and decides to teach the litterbug a lesson.
But this causes a whole series of unexpected events with criminals, real estate developers and politicians interacting with each other like bumper cars.Some of the characters:Florida Governor Dick Artemus, who describes himself as "...a people person's people person,' though the phrase induced muted groans from his staff.)Palmer Stoat, litterbug and lobbyist for the rich and powerfulDesie Stoat, Palmer's wife, who now realizes Palmer is a jerkMr.Gash, a hired thug whose favorite pastime is listening to 911 tapes I read this library book in 3 days.
As it happens Palmer's beautiful wife Desie - who's getting tired of her slobby, cigar-smoking husband - adds herself to the dog snatching.At this point Twilly learns that slovenly Palmer Stoat is happily facilitating a plan to turn Florida's offshore 'Toad Island' into an upscale golf resort called 'Shearwater Island.' The resort's developer is former drug dealer Robert Clapley who's greased politicians' palms to ease the way AND taken measures to wipe out the toads for which the island is named.
In an attempt to stop the project Twilly threatens to harm lovable Boodle.....but can a dog's welfare stand up against fortunes to be made?One funny (and ridiculous) predicament follows another as the story unfolds.
"Who could be so inexcusably disrespectful of God's creation?"As someone who HATES litter in all forms, I really enjoyed the fact that the entire premise of "Sick Puppy" starts when the protagonist of the text, a guy named Twilly Spree witnesses a fella littering and gives chase to discuss with the idiot what he is doing to the Florida environment when he throws junk out of the window.
The text also includes perennial Hiaasen favorite, ex governor of Florida Clint Tyree, otherwise known as Skink.The book's ending comes full circle, and ends almost exactly as it began.
Carl Hiaasen is a literary comic genius, a Samuel Clemens for our day, as evident in his hilarious book "Sick Puppy", but to say that his books are simply entertaining is to miss the point.
He's writing primarily about Florida, a state which no one should have to actually live in, due to the number of ridiculously insane people that inhabit it, most of whom are politicians, elderly retirees, immigrants, or criminals.
Hiaasen takes aim at everyone: Republican or Democrat, young or old, rich or poor.
If you've never read a Hiaasen novel, pick one up and prepare to laugh hysterically.
This book is about a hundred pages too long and is a poorly developed story about an unstable environmentalist that stalks an asshole lobbyist/exotic game hunter because he saw him toss trash out the window of his car.
There's a big game hunter/lobbyist, a former toyota salesman turned governor, a former governor that now lives wild in the everglades, a developer with a barbie fetish, a young and reckless enviromnetalist that is also super rich, a biologist that has sold his appreciation for nature for some quick cash, etc.
man. this book made me laugh. hiaasen is friggin hilarious. the book has crazy floridian creeps causing eco-mistakes. the main character simply doesn't like it. picture an entire truck load of dung beetles being dumped onto your fancy SUV because you threw a mcdonalds wrapper out your window. and Skink, the vagabond with good teeth, gives me the smiles. just - if you are wanting to laugh, this is it. so silly. and there is always a good message about development destroying the world and whatnot. his books rule.
One of the funniest books I've ever read. What enjoyable, escapist fiction should be. Twilly Spree is a character Joseph Heller would have been proud of, a hero in anger management classes, and his exploits are so absurd that they are only believable because they take place in the state of insanity known as "Florida". Absolutely fun and all that good, escapist fiction should be. NC
And finally, there's Boodle, Stoat's black Labrador retriever, who actually becomes a sick puppy after eating all the glass eyes plucked from Stoat's many mounted big game head trophies.
This is after Twilly spots Stoat repeatedly throwing trash from his car, follows him home, breaks and enters and discovers the trophy room.
He is so enraged by the countless dead animal heads, he proceeds to pop out all the glass eyes, which are promptly consumed by Boodle.
Eventually, Twilly kidnaps Boodle, and strikes up a romance with Stoat's wife.
Within a few pages the reader is immersed in the usual Hiaasen scenario featuring a dog-napping and peopled with corrupt Florida politicians and ruthless developers; among the characters here are a former Toyota salesman who is now governor, a hunt-trophy-happy lobbyist, a millionaire developer with a fetish for Barbie dolls (yes, the actual dolls), and our favorite “out-there” one-eyed hero, Skink.
Hiaasen has a gift for colorful description, for example: Willie Vasquez-Washington eyed Stoat as if he were a worm on a Triscuit.
The action is non-stop and the pages turn fast.
Stoat does not understand the message, being in the middle of working a deal for the state legislature and the Florida Governor, Dick Artemus, to provide funding for a bridge to an island, currently home to millions of frogs, for one of his clients, a criminal, Robert Clapley, who wants to turn the island into skyscrapers and parking lots.
Instead Stoat's wife, Desie, follows Twilly(view spoiler)[, hears him out, and decides Twilly is ok, and helps him blackmail her husband.
(hide spoiler)]When Governor Dick discovers the mess Stoat is in - the supposed kidnapping of his wife and dog - he reluctantly vetoes the bridge funding.
Toad Island is being sought after for a new Florida community for the hoity-toity.Then there is Boddle/McGuinn the adorable Lab.Twilly and Clinton, (aka Skink), take up the task of setting Florida straight as they fight not only litter bugs but those who are destroying the natural beauty of Florida.Hiaasen again puts together a novel that is not only very entertaining but one that has social and economic value, a book that will not only have the reader laughing but taking a hard look at the politics of corruption.
I love Carl Hiaasen. I am not a big mystery/thriller person and his stuff is great! His characters are OTT and at the same time so very human and in this instance humane. How can you not love a man who would chase down an idiot for throwing trash out of his car doing 80 on the freeway?!?! Twilly Spree is my hero. With Hiaasen you just never know where you will wind up - except that it will be in Florida, that much you know.
You'll find, as you go along, that you don't know who will prevail (have you counted how many condos there are in Florida, and how little unspoiled beach remains?); most of all, you will not be able to predict what will happen ten pages ahead.
Maybe that will show up in one of Hiassen's later novels.In fact, I wish Hiassen would take the time and knit together all the disparate characters who populate his books in the style of Wm Faulkner, recycle and shuffle them and tell of their new (mis)deeds and adventures.
Not even in the novel format; write a collection of short stories about the intersection of characters from his various books.
It's worth saying that based on his first 5 books, his investigative reporting and the fact that he once appeared on IN SEARCH OF alongside Leonard Frickin' Nimoy, I regard Hiaasen as a genius to be spoken of in hallowed tones.
I will now proceed to speak of him in tones more harsh than hallowed, even though I still think he's one of America's greatest writers and one of the top 10,443 crime novelists in god damned South Florida; since they all seem to settle there, he's got lots of competition.This book, interestingly, is about where I left off in his oeuvre -- sort of randomly selected.
And it's worth saying that Hiaasen's outrage at Florida politics and overdevelopment is also familiar, and I share it.
You gotta love a dog story and especially one which nails the essence of a dog as well as Carl Hiaansen’s Sick Puppy.
Eating was a thrill.......And everywhere you went were gullible humans who patted and hugged and fussed over you.”But Sick Puppy is not just a dog story, it is also a mystery set in Florida which examines the mistreatment of the environment of the Sunshine State by real estate developers and politicians in collusion with a biting humor.
Hiaansen cagily develops a complex story which weaves itself around Florida dragging in politicians, lobbyists, ex-drug lords turned developers, big game park owners, scientists and numerous others.
"Sick Puppy" is a novel about greedy politicians and builders who are destroying Florida's beauty.
It's packed with colorful characters and wacky incidents.Twilly Spree is a wealthy environmentalist who is trying to stop a development from bulldozing the trees and killing the animals on a Florida island.
The project is designed to enrich a builder who contributed to the governor's campaign, as well as benefiting a lobyest who is trying to set up the deal.The characters are richly drawn and easy to imagine as was the unusual situations they get into.Hiassen is playing with the reader and gives us an amusing tale that is vastly entertaining.
Fortunately, I guessed that the sick puppy of the title referred to one of the characters and boy, was I right.
In fact, it could refer to almost any one of the characters.
They are all sick puppies.
I read one other good book by Hiaasen, I think it was Double Whammy, but Sick Puppy is even better.
This would be a good book to give someone who is reluctantly flying to Florida for some reason.
It will make them laugh and put them in the right mood to land in the swampland that is Florida State.
The wacko environmentalist, the cynical Democrat, the smarmy, unserious Republican, the sleazy lobbyist, the slimy ex-smuggler now real-estate developer, thugs, etc all keep you glued to the story.
Much fun to be had here.The lobbyist:(view spoiler)[Stoat slept past noon and woke up to a grim hangover and a silent house.
(hide spoiler)]The “Sick Puppy”:(view spoiler)[The dog was having a grand time.
That’s the thing about being a Labrador retriever you were born for fun.
And everywhere you went were gullible humans who hugged and fussed over you.So the dog was having a blast, cruising in the station wagon with Twilly Spree and Desirata Stoat.
It starts out as a satisfying read; Twilly Spree is a maladjusted and overgrown trust fund kid who gets to live out a popular revenge fantasy: he spots a litterbug on the Florida highway and decides to spend as much time and energy as possible to teach the litterbug a lesson.
But once the novel goes beyond the initial game of petty and funny strikes and retaliations and opens its canvas to a battle over whether or not the despoiling of said island will successfully take place, the revenge fantasy is both too good to be true and much too long in its execution.
Stoat is a political fixer involved with all sorts of characters: Dick Artemus, ex-car salesman, now governor; Robert Clapley, a crooked land developer with an unhealthy interest in Barbie dolls; and his goon, Mr. Gash, who plays his favorite 911 compilations in the tape deck.Twilly, after filling Stoat's car with dung beetles and not reforming him, kidnaps both Palmer's dog and his wife, Desie.
Palmer wants his wife and dog back and asks Dick Artemus to help in the rescue by manipulating the introduction of the bill.Trooper Jim Tile is the policeman involved in finding the kidnapper along with ex-Governor Clinton Tyree, aka Skink or the Captain, who lives in the wilds of the Everglades.Development is shown to be what it is, a stripping away of the environment for the gains of a few.
Ok, I read it.
Read the whole thing.
No, but it was an entertaining read.
The characters are:Palmer Stoat – an obsessive/compulsive type prone to littering rather than having the offending item on his possession, Stoat is a cocksure deal maker in the middle of the Florida political arena.Desie Stoat – young, beautiful, and unlucky with men.
Twilly quickly changes his name to McGuinn when he acquires him.The focus of all of these characters is Shearwater Island, a natural, lightly populated habitat soon to be turned into luxury condos, hotels, and golf course.
The story moves quickly, introduces more interesting characters than those I’ve listed, and reaches a satisfying conclusion.
This might be a good summer beach read.
Florida novels - When young ecoterrorist Twilly Spree begins a campaign of sabotage against a litterbug named Palmer Stoat, he gets much more than he bargained for.
Stoat is a political fixer, involved with a bevy of shady types: Dick Artemus, ex-car salesman, now governor; Robert Clapley, a crooked land developer with an unhealthy interest in Barbie dolls; and his business expediter, Mr. Gash, a permed reptilian thug with ghastly musical tastes.
Palmer wants his wife and dog back and asks Dick Artemus to help in the rescue without derailing the bill.
Sick Puppy is, I suspect, typical of most of his books: an entertaining conflict between really bad guys and one or more idiosyncratic good guys.
In Sick Puppy one of the evil ones is a lobbyist who gets paid to clear the way for rich guys who want to get richer by using politicians to help them rip off the public and destroy the environment.
The other bad guy wants the government to build a bridge from the Florida mainland to a pristine island which he intends to develop into golf courses and condos.
Laugh out loud funny!The best reason I enjoy reading Carl Hiaasen novels is because I will never be able to conceive of plots (and characters) such as his.In Sick Puppy he has...
This list barely touches the cast of interesting characters.Readers will enjoy Hiaasen's sense of humor, his quirky characters, and his convoluted plots (which are surprisingly easy to follow!)Although they pretty much all do, this particular Hiaasen novel reminded me of Donald Westlake's books.A well-written and entertaining read!

This was a very very fun read.
I was thoroughly entertained.
It's a satirical look at politicians and life in Florida.
One of my favorite characters is a champion of the environment.
Twilly is seemingly a sociopath who gets very irritated by any that would take for granted Florida's beautiful wetlands and coasts.
All of the characters are heavily flawed and the situations they find themselves in are absurd.
Like I said before, very entertaining.
I'm afraid to read anything else by Hiaasen because I can't imagine it getting better than this.
This book was pretty funny but also rather gross. The very interesting descriptions of people we imagine exist (the wealthy conservative game-hunting politician with a trophy wife; the psychotic, environmental terrorist with an anger management problem, etc.) made for an outrageous and dark comedy. Still, something about the book didn't feel good to me.Maybe I'm just too serious, but reading about people this dysfunctional and the havoc they wreak on each other and the world around them just leaves me kind of depressed. :(
Sick Puppy: another great read from Carl Hiaasen. Wonderful, quirky, Florida characters. This main character is another that wants to save Florida from litterbugs and land barons. He kidnaps a dog, doesn’t kidnap someones wife (she goes along on her own) and is matched up with an ex-Governer who has gone wild and lives in the wild swamps. Great fun, great writer.
Gotta love a book with a dog as a central character. The book is highly amusing and paints an interesting picture of Florida's politics.
Hiaasen is one of my long-time fav's... started reading because of the Florida connection and fell in love with his characters...
