https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15925.The_Guardian
Wasn't a huge fan of this one, but I am looking forward to Sparks' next novel:
Author's note at end of the book ... brace yourselves, you might fall of the chair, laughing. I know I nearly did.  "From first to final draft, the novel went through eight major revisions until my editor and I were finally satisfied that the novel accomplished what it set out to do, that is, be a love story first and foremost, and secondly - in a way that sneaks up on the reader - a compelling thriller."  "A COMPELLING THRILLER"!! This author needs to either sack the editor or read some "compel
Author's note at end of the book ...
"From first to final draft, the novel went through eight major revisions until my editor and I were finally satisfied that the novel accomplished what it set out to do, that is, be a love story first and foremost, and secondly - in a way that sneaks up on the reader - a compelling thriller."
"A COMPELLING THRILLER"!!
This author needs to either sack the editor or read some "compelling thrillers" himself.
Ended up skimming but, even so, I got the gist of it.
I've never written a review before, but I thought that this book really qualifies for one.
Sometimes you just want something that you can indulge yourself into without the analysis and critical thinking, and this one was perfect for it.I love the whole story between Mike and Julie and the slow realization of Julie as she comes to love Mike.and of course I love Singer, The Guardian.This book is full of twists that I didnt expect at all.I was surprised by the ending, But I loved it.This is the first time I read to Sparks and I'm really glad that I did.The book is just beautiful.
One of my favorite Nicholas Sparks' books. The main character falls in love with her long time friend after losing her husband at a very young age. I love the romance concept of the book and the slow realization of Julie as she comes to love Mike. It is also a nice concept of her lost husband watching over her and letting go when he sees she is finally at peace without him. Romance stories are more fascinating to me when the main characters are already friends who fall in love.
So, I will forewarn you, and fully admit, that my Absolute Hate of this book is fueled by my completely irrational and 5 year-old belief that Dogs Do Not Die. EVER.
And the dog MIRACULOUSLY lives and gets HIS Happily Ever After with a nice, stable family, who are smart enough not to get mixed up with Crazy Stalkers, and who have two children for him to play with and a big, fenced-in backyard.That might be wrong of me, but I've already admitted my irrational love of dogs so my alternate ending shouldn't have been a surprise.I apologize because I can't really offer any rational critique of this book.
yeah, there's a spoiler in here. so stop reading if you don't wanna know.yep. sparks does it again, sucks, that is.he kills off a dog this time, if memory serves me right. I think that's all he's got... try to make a love story so sweet you need insulin. and then WHAM! Death! yeah, get out your kleenex you sorry bastards!that's right Sparks, kill 'em all! must be a metallica fan.
Saccharine! Predictable! This is the first Sparks novel I've read and I don't understand (from this first exposure anyway) WHY this man is a bestselling author. I just didn't get the appeal... Spoiler: the "Guardian" is the dog. THE DOG. I mean, anytime the dog has to save the day, is this good?
The premise is lame and unbelievable...how many dying husbands make pre-death arrangements for a dirty puppy to be delivered to the grieving widow on Christmas--in a cardboard box, no less?
Was the husband so ill that he ordered the pup from a substandard puppy mill?
Weepy dog death scene follows, but psycho dude is dead and doggie has fulfilled being her guardian as in the book title, and everyone else goes off happily into the sunset.
Speachless..
Literally speachless..
Nicholas Sparks is a natural!!
Every time I finish a book of his, I keep on saying it's the best, but ALL OF THEM ARE BEAUTIFULY AMAZING!!!!
Mike, Richard, singer, jim..
Richard was sexy, seductive,yet somehow pshycopathic.
Nicholas, ur books give me great emotion..
At the end of every book I read from Nicholas, I was always left breathless and with tears rolling down my face..
Nicholas Sparks, you're the best <3
رواية جميلة وشيقة .. يبدو أني أدركت مبكرًا أن هذه الرواية ستعجبني و يبدو أيضًا أني أحب قراءة الأفلام الأجنبية .. وليس مشاهدتها فحسب . على الرغم من أن "تيمة" الرواية تبدو معتادة .. إلا أن سباركس استطاع بلغته وتفاصيل روايته أن يجذبني إلأى عالم هذه الرواية الخاص، وإن بدا لي أن عنوان "الحارس" لم يكن هو الأنسب للرواية ...هناك كوارث إنسانية قامت بها المترجمة دعد سيحاسبها عليها القانون وإن كانت الترجمة جيدة، ولكن الأخطـاء مثيرة (أقصد كثيرة) وقابلة (قاتلة) ا .....
I wish that I could give this book 3 stars.
I really wish that I could.
I mean there are a lot of parts of the book that I really liked.
But in general the story was a little familiar...I read a book earlier this year that was almost exactly the same plot line but of course was not as well put together as a Nicholas Sparks' book!
And up until the last chapter and epilogue, I was going to give it 3 stars.
I mean, the book is based around a love story with a thrilling secondary plot, and the love story in the end has nothing to do with the ending.
Especially with this book because I was really torn between 3 or 4 stars.The Guardian was a pretty good story about finding a new love after an unexpected death.
Julie was left two things after his untimely death: a puppy and a promise.
After mourning for a handful of years, Julie has decided it's time to dip her toes into the love pool again.
After a couple of dates, Richard believes he loves her.
Julie is seeing this other guy named Mike.
When you would get with your friends and prank call you crush but instead of saying anything just hang up.Overall, this book was good.
I know what your thinking... How can Reed read a nicholas sparks book... very simple... I don't think you can bad mouth something until you have tried it. so I read a sparks novel. I have to admit it was entertaining. It was also very cheesy and the very end was about the biggest pile of tripe i have ever layed eyes on.
Julie Barenson's husbands death left her with to unexpected gifts, a Great Dane puppy named Singer and the promise that he would be watching over her always.
After dating a few times Richard falls madly in love while Julie falls for another man, Mike Harris, her late husband best friend.
Then one day unexpected love comes knocking at both the women's door.
The main event that connected the two stories together however is that both of the women’s husband leave letters and objects to help the women move on with life.
4 StarsThis book a really good and it was a great love story.
I am happy the Richard and Julie never ended up together at the end because I feel like Richard was not really a good match for Julie.
Mike and Julie and great together.
Through out this book I thought that Mike and Julie are perfect for each other.
It was well written that I felt like that I was in Julie's place and I could feel the way she did and their connection between each other.
I really cried during that part on a good way.
I must say though, at the beginning of the book the story was pretty slow and didn't completely have my attention unlike say The Last Song or Dear John.
But by the middle of the book it had me completely captivated!
The whole mysterious Richard story and true self becoming unveiled.
It is also not just about love between people, but the bond between a girl and her dog.
It tells about the true loyalty and friendship between Julie and her dog Singer.
This book though slow in the beginning was pretty good and I recommend it to others whom enjoy thrillers, with romance etc.
This book was different from any of Nicholas Sparks' novels.
And the fact that there was a bad guy from the beginning till the end was another interesting thing about the book.
The whole time i was reading the book it was as if i was watching a really good movie.
And I don't want to spoil it for you guys, but what I can say is this: If you're looking for a romantic story that is not predictable nor cheesy and that it involves an element of danger and suspense then you've got the right book.
Stars: 5 I'll write a review when i stop crying.
That must mean that there is a sizable number of people who have given it 5 stars, which just makes me sad for the state of our country.This book sucked so bad I didn't even finish it.
To be absolutely fair, it could be that things picked up on page 261, but Julie and her merry band of undereducated yet homespun and well-meaning service industry workers had more than worn out their welcome with me by that point.The entire first 100 pages or so was full of drivel like this:======Mabel removed two plastic glasses from the bottom drawer and made herself more comfortable on the couch.
Nicholas Sparks takes a turn from his usual, sometimes sappy romance stories in The Guardian: still a romance, this book has a definitive thriller edge to it.
I enjoyed The Guardian and think Sparks accomplished his objectives of mixing a romance with a thriller without losing sight of the relationship that was building throughout the novel.When Julie's husband dies in his early 20s, he leaves Julie with a note and a Great Dane puppy, who she names Singer, to look after her.
True throughout to his guardian duties, Singer is the shining star of this novel.
De las historias de Sparks que he leído, esta ha sido, de lejos, la mejor.
Un lugar donde refugiarse me encanto, pero El guardián no tiene comparación.
Que el 90% del libro sea suspenso, pero que Nicholas no haya dejado de lado el romanticismo del que estamos acostumbrados en su libros, es simplemente maravilloso.He tratado de buscar algo malo del libro, y la verdad no lo encuentro.
Contiene suspenso, el cual es uno de mis géneros favoritos, está escrita por uno de mis autores favoritos y tiene un final, que aunque desgarrador, es perfecto.
Nicholas Sparks did an awesome job of moving the story along in this book, which is hard to do when tackling a thriller AND romance in the same novel. There was a delicate balance between the action/drama side of the story and the typical love story and I'm impressed with the attention to detail. I'd love to see this adapted into a movie!
This Book Made Me CryA classmate of mine recommended this book to me when I was looking for a realistic fiction with some romance.
Little did I know that this book would be the best I've ever read in this genre.
Since I hated Richard from the start I was cheering for Mike.
At first it was because the dog like Mike and not Richard.
The events that followed the relationship between Julie and Richard was what really made me want to read more.
This wasn't what I was expecting for a romance, but I loved it even more.
Captivating!!!
Dá-me a sensação que a este escritor as palavras saem sem ele dar por isso de tão belas que são.Uma narrativa, enredo e personagens muito bem estruturados e fantásticos.Esta é a história de Julie Barenson que fica viúva na flor da idade.
Tinha sido o companheiro de uma vida e o seu guardião final.Uma mensagem de amor, afecto e dedicação dos nossos amigos animais.Este livro é daqueles que por mais que escreva, tenho a sensação que fica sempre algo por dizer.
Pero pronto Julie empezó a caerme mal y todo su encaprichamiento con Richard (el malo) me parecia absurdo, por no decir que estaba siendo t-o-n-t-a y c-r-u-e-l con su mejor amigo, Mike.
Julie SABIA que Mike estaba perdidamente enamorado de ella pero para ella era como "¿Mike?
Por fin Julie no era tonta e iba a hacer muy feliz a Mike.
Pero la paz duró poco, la felicidad de este nuevo amor Mike-Julie se veia empañada por el acoso de Richard y a partir de cierto momento, era imposible respirar con esta novela.
ICH HABE GEHEULT!
I really enjoyed this book but who wouldn’t like Nichole Sparks book?I have read all of this books and loved them all.
A Sparks book that didn't put me into a coma. I'm shook.
I actually liked it better when I read the author's notes at the end where he mentions having always wanted to write a book about a dog :)The characters were pretty believable and I found myself really caring for them, even if the story was fairly predictable from almost the first chapter.The best part was the description in the prologue, of how Julie felt after losing her husband.
You want to know what it was like to lose my husband?
