https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4813.1421
A typical "fact" presented by Menzies is introduced with "By this point I was sure..." or "I realized that Zhou must have...." or even "From my days as a navigator, I knew that ...." Then Menzies will absurdly postulate about what the Treasure Fleet MUST have been doing in uncharted territory, with no trace of written or oral record, halfway across the globe nearly 600 years ago.
Nor did they return to collect the fruits of the mines they set up all over the world.
Stephen Powers, a nineteenth-century inspector employed by the government of California to survey the native population, found linguistic evidence of a Chinese-speaking colony in the state."The first assertion, on the Peruvian village, is not sourced at all and is either the personal fancy of the author or some minor crank idea.
There's even an assertion that Navajo elders understand Chinese conversation, and an assertion that the Peruvian village name Chanchan must be Chinese because it sounds (at least to him) like "Canton".
Sure 1421 has plenty of hearsay and conjecture, and some entertaining theories put forth by Menzies, most of which can't be backed up with factual evidence at this time.
Obviously by reading the subtitle ...The Year China Discovered America you get the gist that Menzies asserts a China-first-to-the-Americas hypothesis.
There's just not enough evidence to prove otherwise.I don't care who gets credit in the history books for discovering this, that or the other thing.
I would like to see us humans get it right though, and unfortunately Menzies can't prove his theories.
All it has is an extremely interesting hodge-podge of facts, figures, intriguing maps, unexplored wrecks and spotty journal entries (most of the accounts of the voyage were destroyed when the explorers returned home to find that the Empire had turned inwards).It reads like an historical mystery novel, which is sort of what it is.
Menzies, being an ex-sailor himself, knows a lot about sailing and brings the voyage to life, an impressive feat given that we know virtually nothing about anyone who was on it.
Some, like an astounding map of Greenland that turned up in the back of someone's car, may even be forgeries.But that, I think, is the point.
Before you know it, he's started asking your friends who they think discovered the world and after a short time, the friend's nods and smiles go from sincerely interested to polite to barely hanging on, and they're looking around desperately for someone to rescue them from this conversation.Uncle Gavin wrote this book.
Things like:"Just because Verrazzano compared some lighter-skinned Indians and their manner of dress to the "Eastern" style doesn't mean that they are descended from his [Menzies'] imaginary pregnant concubines that were put ashore from his imaginary overcrowded voyages."I was going to list more, but as I look at that one, I think it sums up everything.
I don't think there is such a pro-Western or anti-Chinese conspiracy among modern historians that the "terrible truth" in this book would be willfully ignored.As there are many examples of historical revisions that were necessary because of new evidence or racism and bigotry in the original historical perspective, I can only guess that Gavin Menzies had reason to believe that his "evidence" wasn't strong enough.
Menzies also claims DNA evidence of Chinese intermixing with aboriginal populations around the world.
It is well-known that History of European Contact with the New World has long been a racist and exclusionary account of the clash of civilizations.
I just think the evidence just is not compelling enough.
In which case you then are not making any money.
Gavin Menzies has decided to theorize that the Chinese could and did in fact do exactly what the title promises.
He makes a compelling case and this book is very readible to the amateur history buff.
But like any good, compelling history, the reader should now get enough information and go find out for themselves what is really believable.
But the book is well written and he makes a compelling case.
His theory is that they visited every continent on Earth except Europe, and he amasses a great deal of circumstantial evidence to support it.
Not the least convincing, and what a good deal of the book focuses on, are the maps that many of the "great" European explorers used that show the areas that they are setting out to discover.
Well, the Chinese did, and in great detail, and the maps were then copied or made by some of the Europeans who were sailing with the Chinese fleets.
Its fascinating to see how the revelation of what "really" happened developes for the author as he travels all over the world finding evidence in shipwrecks, artifacts and structures, plants and animals, languages and customs, and genetic markers in the indigenous peoples of Africa, the New World, and Australia and New Zealand.
Part of the reason he thought he was in Asia when he landed in the Caribbean was because his crew encountered "light skinned" Asians that were the descendants of Chinese who'd been shipwrecked there 70 years before.
I have to say that I enjoyed reading this book, if only because it made me so angry at the gross inaccuracies and completely imaginary scenarios that the author made up.
Read on, intrepid reader, and be amazed as the author sidesteps issues which threatens his ideas, or completely ignores them!
Even better, some of his citations are inaccurately recorded to the point that one wonders if he's even read them!He claims in interviews to have been ousted by the scientific establishment - in reality, if you read the scientific reviews of his work, scholars simply subjected his work to the same standards to which they subject their own work.
Basically, no one disputes that the Chinese had this enormous fleet that set sail in 1421 and went across the Indian Ocean to the east coast of Africa.
The part of his theory I can buy is that the Chinese didn't stop at East Africa.
They sailed around the southern tip, up the west coast, and across to Brazil.
Then they bumped around the coasts of what is now Brazil and Argentina and then sailed back to the Indian Ocean.
Basically, the Chinese went EVERYWHERE.....except Europe.
I'd say read it and decide for yourself how much of this guy's elaborate story you are willing to buy into.
Do you like pseudo-history from rank amateurs that draw wild conclusions from scant evidence while discounting, in almost all situations, the simplest explanation in favor of conspiracy theory level conclusions? Then this is for you.Just horrid.
However that is part of the problem with this book - it is probably unfair to expect Menzies to write about the other side of his assumptions and theory - why would he present the evidence that doesn't fit.
Winchesters Bomb, Book & Compass: Joseph Needham & the Great Secrets of China goes some way to describing the technological achievements of the Chinese, and there is no reason to think that navigation and seamanship should not have been ambitions of China.Menzies helper scientists were also in the process of DNA testing at the time of publication, and he uses the postscript in this edition in a couple of ways.
So after the fleet leaves Africa, the rest of the book is pure speculation: lots of "I knew instantly that X, Y, and Z" and "chickens in South America lay blue eggs, which is a uniquely Asian chicken trait, therefore the only possible conclusion is that the Chinese fleet landed in South America" and "there's an Aboriginal rock painting of a huge animal with a dog-shaped head.
The only possible conclusion is that it's a milodon which the Chinese fleet brought with them from Patagonia" and "I found this rock with swirly patterns on it in New Zealand.
I suppose I should feel bad that I gave up on this book, but I don't.
It seemed like an interesting concept: China sent out huge ships to bring back treasure and knowledge, and just happened to find America 70 years before Christopher Columbus.
Too bad there's so much evidence pointing against this being the case.
I was about two chapters in when I really started to think about the logic of this and decided to do a little research.
Turns out there are very few people that agree with this book.
Most scholars agree that the logic is flawed.
Seemed that he's trying to be honest, because the greatest part he did for the book was arranging other people's work ; he wondered everytime he found a match in his research; he wanted to make sure that the proof are not coincidences.
As for me, I do not have enough scientific authority to judge whether all the writer said in the book are true or not, but I really respect all research he's done for the book.
I really wanted to like this book.
Sadly it became a long, non-stop series of suppositions along the lines of Chariots of the Gods.
If I had to read one more mention of the Asian chickens in the New World I would have gone mad!Or another use of "the ONLY thing this could mean was that the Chinese had been there before anyone!" He has a lot to learn about inescapable conclusions and the evidence leading up to them.
I gave it one star for the few things I actually found interesting, but given the rest of the book it makes me want to double check even those.Too bad.
This time, though, I think 1421 merits further explanation because of the sensational success it has experienced worldwide.Simply put, 1421 is junk history posing as "real history." Gavin Menzies has spun a fantastical and interesting tale out of the very real events surrounding the massive Chinese treasure fleets of 1421.
Starting with that sparse introduction, Menzies proceeds to gather bits and pieces of evidence stretching from China itself to the Indian subcontinent, from the Congo to Patagonia and beyond, and levies the evidence to tell a tale of the massive Chinese fleet charting the New World the greater part of a century before Columbus set sail in 1492.It is an extremely interesting and, if it were true, a ground breaking discovery and thesis.
However, enough evidence of these voyages remains to provide compelling proof.Menzies focuses on maps of the world made before the European explores were born and points to journals showing that Columbus, Magellan, Cook, and others had maps of the areas they were "discovering" before they ever set sail.Magellan knew where the Straight of Magellan was by using a map.
(The Portuguese landed in Puerto Rico a short ten years after the Chinese.) Columbus wasn't even the first non-Scandinavian European to visit America!
Menzies shows that Europeans who visited India came into contact with the Chinese and brought maps back to Europe.
He had quite a story to tell, too.Menzies writes that the Chinese, during the reign of a single emperor at a time over five decades before the voyages of Columbus, spared no expense building treasure fleets with the centerpieces being huge flat bottomed square bowed junks 180 by 450 feet flying bright red silk sails on up to nine masts surrounded with lesser support ships that carried everything from food to horses in a quest to discover the world and plant colonies in the process.
I found myself wondering throughout this book, how the hell this guy made the conclusions he did.
I found it frustrating when he'd say "check the website for further information" or "negotiations are underway for the release of these documents".Anyway, I stopped reading because I found the book less and less convincing.
After some research, the map that gave this guy the original idea turned out to be a fake.
But did you know that China as well went through its own brief Renaissance at the same time, actually sailing around the planet on a regular basis a full 50 years before the Europeans started doing so, and that it was the maps and tips these Chinese gave to the Europeans that allowed the great figures from the "Age of Discovery" to make their voyages in the first place?
According to Menzies, European explorers including Columbus, Magellan, and Cook were working off of already existing charts that had been essentially stolen from the Chinese when they made their own voyages of exploration.There is an overwhelming amount of evidence presented--everything from ancient maps to European ship logs to shipwrecks to lingual analysis to plant migrations to DNA.
Some of the declarations are fairly easy to believe, such as the notion that the Chinese were well aware of the location of Australia.
I'll admit I have no idea.
It's certain that there's a lot of "established" history that we're aware is not actually true.
It consists of a long list of anecdotes along the lines of "when I was in the navy, I saw a pile of moss covered rocks on the beach in South America that had a shape vaguely similar to that of a collapsed Chinese temple - further proof of Chinese contact with America!" I like a good wild theory as much as anyone, and typically enjoy reading about them and considering them ("The Deep Hot Biosphere" is a favorite), but I need a FEW FACTS to make it palatable - not an author posturing as if he was an authority to trick people without strong analytical abilities in to believing him.
It was Siskind who said, "We look at the world and see what we have learned to believe is there."I love this book because it verifies that what we know, or what we believe we know about history (and perhaps everything else) quite possibly is sufficiently less than what there is to know and therefore an indicator that we ought to always make room for the possibility that a complete reality check may always be in order.Was it coincidence then that through virtually no pre-planning or awareness on my part, that in traveling to New York to receive my prize, that "coincidentally" a friend of mine from the Apple Distinguished Educator group would "happen" to be invited to attend the ceremony, not knowing that I was to be one of the recipients?
(OK, those are mostly my own stumbling blocks.) How come the Chinese didn't already know about America and have their own rudimentary maps, the same way that the Europeans did?
(In the end he hints that they might have...part of the problem is that they got rid of their own records to be isolationists.) Shouldn't they have sent people directly across the Pacific instead of the long way 'round?
I believe that people were exploring the oceans and the world before the Europeans became the driving force behind things.
The anamolies with the island of Guadeloupe as chartered on the map with the real geographical situation is easily explained: the Chinese junks were low on the water and therefore it's obvious that they didn't see any bays.
The fleet then goes northbound, where the map shows a lot of islands that aren't there, easily explained by the fact that the sealevel has risen with more than 6 feet since 1421, so a lot of islands must have overflooded with water since then, like this only occured in this region.
Thus, the author bases his argument on three claims: 1) Chinese maps from as early as 1428, allegedly showing parts of North and South America and some Atlantic islands, which the author claims, European explorers (including Columbus) used to their advantage 2) evidence of pre-Columbian contact between America and Asia based on flora and fauna exchange that he asserts must have occurred as the result of human contact and 3) his past maritime experience as a British naval officer (of which the author regularly reminds the reader ).The problem is these subjective claims for the most part are not adequately substantiated with hard evidence.
I've decided to shelf this one at chapter 4, page 197 and so withholding a rating in fairness.
Maybe I'll return to this book when I have far more time to kill hunting down and cross referencing all the quasi-citations for the actual who, where, how, and why seemingly so often unprovided.That said Menzies really could have saved face if he treated this subject like a Dan Brown novel.
I enjoyed the documentary, but this book has so much criticism.
Unfortunately it turns into a wild good chase fairly quick, and all those citations...
I would have preferred a far more limited work of honest speculation.
Wow. The preponderance of evidence not only turns accepted European history and world history on its
