https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6486483-emotional-intelligence-2-0
This journey ensures you experience things emotionally before your reason can kick into gear.""People with the highest levels of intelligence (IQ) outperform those with average IQs just 20 percent of the time, while people with average IQs outperform those with high IQs 70 percent of the time." Great...
but are these results based on an actual experiment?"Only 36 percent of the people we tested are able to accurately identify their emotions as they happen.
It’s the single biggest predictor of performance in the workplace and the strongest driver of leadership and personal excellence.""Of all the people we’ve studied at work, we have found that 90 percent of high performers are also high in EQ.
This is the first applied emotional intelligence book that I am reading.
It has its pros (clarity and simplicity of content) and some cons (excessive self-promotion).
When reading these sort of books, I prefer to judge it on its merits so I found this style of marketing and self-promotion to be quite off-putting and unnecessary.
Given that people have to purchase the book to access the strategies, a better approach might have been to offer the test for free, along with a sample strategy for each area.
I may need to buy the book.I loved it all, but I have picked out my favorite parts of each section:Self Awareness Strategies:1.
Ask others for feedback about how you handle your emotions and listen carefully to what they say.2.
Weekly or bi-weekly take stock of your life and write down situations that you didn't deal with well and then list which quality that you wanted to honor but didn't.
The next time a situation like this comes up, I might deal with it differently because I will remember the list.Self Management Strategies:1.
Some of the strategies in the four sections of the book felt like they were closely related.
I look forward to working on increasing my EQ by using the assessment test to determine where I need to focus my efforts and applying the relevant strategies from the 66 strategies listed in the book.Emotional Intelligence 2.0 Strategies
1. Self Awareness Strategies
Feel your emotions physically5.
Spot your emotions in books, movies, and music14.
Seek feedback15 Get to know yourself under stress
2. Self-Management Strategies
Set aside some time in your day for problem solving9.
3. Social Awareness Strategies
Go people watching13.
One of my professors last semester opened class with the statement "Most if not everyone in this room thinks they are above average, I'm sorry but you are not."Low and behold there was hope, the coping strategies and techniques provided in this book to help you work on your area of weakness.While reading the examples given for each strength and the good and bad examples I was surprised to find that I resembled a few of the bad examples in previous work experience.
Hope is not lost, now I can move forward and hopefully redirect my current ways of interacting with others.
It will take me a few months to practice better habits but hopefully I can use these new suggestions to insure success during my summer internship!
I see that I'm a dissenting opinion with 2 stars but I expected a lot more from this book.
I was very excited to learn about the concept of Emotional Intelligence as I'm a confessed 'smart person who has trouble holding back on emotions.' I see the logic of EI and firmly believe it is very important for career success.
Maybe my expectations were too high?
I went to the sections of the book that were designated as my 'three primary targets' for self learning.
The learnings are to 1)sleep on it 2)count to 10 before responding and 3)breathe deeply.
I know they are sound advice.
But who doesn't know that??!!
Eventually, it will be like joining a gym for a year, going for hardcore exercises for the first few weeks and then never again getting off the couch-based-TV-phase for the rest of your life.Now, I do not want to get into explaining in detail the tricks, tips and strategies of the book simply because it be right.
The concept has been floating around for so long that it would be easy for one to assume that it's a scientifically validated theory-- like IQ and personality measurements (which this book presents EQ alongside).Unfortunately, as anyone who has done enough careful study knows, none of these three concepts are nearly as solid as many believe.
Scientists have had incredible difficulty even measuring it accurately, let alone confirming it actually exists as currently imagined-- to the point that it's scientifically irresponsible to write a book without explaining the scientific caveats, especially one declaring it the most important factor of personal success.And indeed, the entire book is a prime example of bad science.
But this book was really enlightening for me.
It gave me insight into some of my own long-held behaviors and tendencies (both positively and negatively.)This book was recommended to me by a fellow leadership coach and I have already incorporated much of into my own practice.
In fact, I have created a 6-week one-on-one coaching engagement built around the principles that are contained within it.There is nothing earthshakingly new in the book.
And the fact that you get an opportunity to take an online assessment twice through the use of special code is a real bonus.Everyone needs to read this book.
This is a remarkable book, emotions are a part of our genetic makeup, but mastering control over them is what we are never taught but have to experience them, learn how to adjust or accept to continue with the momentum of life & If you believe in personal growth then this book is a must read to improve your EQ & having Emotional intelligence is one of the fundamentals roots that builds a solid character.
While I discovered this approach could yield some positive results, I was disappointed that it did little to reveal what things might be at the root of why I had the feelings I did.Emotional Intelligence 2.0 operates on a similar philosophy but with some nuances that make it a more satisfying self-help book, at least for me.
Within the physiological context provided, this makes a lot of sense; initially, all emotions are responses, not things that we have evaluated and made a moral judgment on.
This is a good skill finding book or refresher at the tenets of managing oneself and a team.
Areas concentrated on in this book:- Self Awareness- Self Management- Social Awareness- Relationship ManagementI got some helpful tips from this book and some refreshers on topics I hadn't thought about in a while.
However, the access code to the on-line EQ Quiz can only be used once.
My book was a library copy so no access for me.
It would be good for all who read this book to get a baseline of where they are emotionally sitting.
Overall, not a bad book.
For each of the four parts of emotional intelligence, the authors list several techniques for improving that particular trait.
Thankfully, and unlike most books of this type, the techniques are short and sweet.
There is the occasional adecdote, especially in the beginning, but overall, the advice is short and to the point.The EQ test itself is pretty poor.
The questions don't even attempt to mask the particular trait they are measuring, which no doubt leads many people to skew their score to what they think the test wants.
Overall I found this book full of useful skills to be used in the work place. Examples are given throughout the book to further understand each tactic and the explanations of each aspect of EQ are clear and concise. I would recommend this book to everyone, even though some ideas seem to be "common sense" they may be overlooked or not focused on enough of the time.
Good article by this author: http://www.forbes.com/sites/travisbra...
2 months ago I got promoted to a regional manager position at my company i didn't have any clue or training how to be a Manager this book and "How to make friends and Influence people" by Dale Carnegie have become my mentors in daily basis, every time I'm under stress I look at the self Managment strategies ( I wrote down all strategies in a post it notes in front of my monitor ). I wish I could have read those books earlier
DISCLAIMER: I received this book as part of a free GoodReads giveaway.This little gem is a short read.
Every single strategy is immediately actionable and well illustrated with real-world examples.Another thing I really appreciate about this book is its organization.
I have to admit, there was a bit of this, but it all seemed to be pretty well contained in the introduction and conclusion, so you could skip over it if such things bother you, though I didn’t personally find it distasteful.All-in-all, a very enjoyable, short, and practical read.
Fantastic book!
Emotional Intelligence (EQ) is something we should all be aware of and it consists of Self-Awareness, Self-Management, Social Awareness, and Relationship Management.
I won this book in a Goodreads giveaway and I am so happy that I did.
I really wanted this book because I have a son who is highly intelligent, but I also want him to learn about EQ.
This book comes with a passcode to the Emotional Intelligence Appraisal test and I am going to let my son use it.
This book is a valuable resource for anyone and I highly recommend it!
I was very impressed with this book. It's the first I've seen that actually shows you how to increase your emotional intelligence, rather than just explaining what emotional intelligence is. It's filled with strategies to increase each of the four emotional intelligence skills: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and relationship management. I found the strategies very helpful, particularly because the books gives access to an online test that (based upon your results) tells you which strategies will increase your EQ the most.
Amazing book .. amazing advises on how to improve your EQ skills which fall into 4 categories .. self awareness, self management, social awareness & relationship management ! I took the test and it was really accurate . The techniques are clear and can be followed ! I was bothered by how my emotions control me sometimes but i think practicing these techniques help a lot! I think EQ is really important key to success in work and life and the book support this idea by examples !
I'm extremely impressed by this book, it has practical advice that can lead to big changes for the better if you work to apply them like Dale Carnegie's classic How To Win Friends and Influence People. My only complaint is that the test costs $40 dollars to take and I just don't have that kind of money. I'm definitely planning on revisiting this and working on it as soon as I have the funds for the test and for actually buying the book.
Ridiculous and shallow to the point of being offensive. Goleman's first book on emotional intelligence was good. This one is crap. The online test is a joke. The questions are so dependent on the way you see yourself and your behaviour, that even an emotional idiot could come up with a very high QE if that's how he sees himself!
I really like what this book teaches. Intelligence is a poor indicator of success in life. Emotional Intelligence is a better indicator. As a parent, I really want to teach these principles to my children. As a manager, I really want to teach these principles to my team members who I coach. Everyone can benefit from these principles.
Emotional Intelligence 2.0 has taught me a lot in regard to myself and the way I interact with people. The book has shown me how to develop these skills in pragmatic and easily applicable ways. It started as a book I had to read for a business class. It soon became one of the few books I have read for a class that I fully intend to use in my daily life regardless of my profession.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Emotional Intelligence 2.0. The combination of new ideas and relatable stories allowed me to improve myself in areas that I previously was unaware needed work. In the end, I have to recommend this book purely because you can read it in one sitting yet get things out of it that you will remember a year later.
I found this book laying around my mom's room and I thought it looked interesting, so I picked it up. I agree with it, that emotional intelligence plays a huge role in our lives. I've picked up a lot of tips that are going to help me when I'm older and working. I'm glad I read it!
Emotional Intelligence 2.0 is a thoroughly researched and extensively explained discovery, unveiling and application of the vital skills of human self-awareness and discernment.
I was disappointed at the opportunity missed to introduce the well researched and factually supported techniques developed over the last forty years for immediate management of human emotions, including; Thought Field Therapy, Bio Energetic Synchronization Technique and I-Ching.
This information can be the perfect introduction to a whole new world of self-awareness, self-empowerment, discernment and possibly true success and happiness in life.A very important part of the puzzle of life has been shared in Emotional Intelligence 2.0.
I really enjoyed this book and felt that it had a lot of good ideas (and common sense) to offer just about anyone.
I actually listened to the audiobook and I thought the reader did a good job.
My only complaint was in the middle of the book, when he took on different voices to express different people's comments.
I always find it silly to hear a man's voice take on a fake-falsetto to try to sound like a woman.But beside that I left this book wanting to learn more.
I expect that this will be a book that I reread multiple times over the course of my career.
This was such a quick but also very informative read on emotional intelligence.
The first section outlines what it is, and how it's different than IQ and personality, then it explains each aspect (there are 4) that make up the EQ.
Then the book gives practical ideas to help the reader intentionally address each of the 4 parts of the EQ, to be more aware and to improve.
I didn't read too closely these sections since I had not taken an EQ test yet, but I had a general idea of where I could improve and found the ideas to be helpful.
I received Emotional Intelligence 2.0 as a gift for my consulting company. Initially, I was very skeptical as to whether or not the book would be useful. However, after taking the time to read Emotional Intelligence 2.0, I couldn't help but apply the book to various aspects of my life. On an individual level, I was able to plan things out and be more weary of my emotions. Interpersonally,the book taught me to really consider how I am feeling and to allow the feeling to resonate before acting on it instantly and then likely regretting that action. I
