https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46087.The_White_Hotel
Anagnorisis Structurally, "The White Hotel" resembles Nabokov's  "Pale Fire",  while stylistically it has more in common with Thomas Mann's  "The Magic Mountain". There are two main differences from Nabokov’s novel: the relative lack of metafictional self-reflexiveness in "The White Hotel", and D. M. Thomas' respect for Freud, whereas Nabokov says he detests him: "I think he's crude, I think he's medieval, and I don't want an elderly gentleman from Vienna with an umbrella inflicting his dreams
(actually Lisa) - the style is that of Freud, and shows what an exceptional literary writer Freud was (whether or not you agree with the foundations of psychoanalysis); * a third person narrative about Lisa; * another narrative about Lisa’s adopted son, Kolya, which describes the Holocaustic events at Babi Yar in Kiev in 1941; and * an hallucinatory, almost magic realist account of Lisa’s apparent arrival in Palestine/Heaven ("The Camp").From Eros to ThanatosIn a later article, D.M. Thomas describes the novel in overtly Freudian terms:
For example, the fictional case history 'written' by the novel's Freud would mean nothing without the previous two sections 'written' by his patient; the same is true of the following sections relating her later life and that of the world at large, each with a Freudian trope of train journeys.A traumatic incident from the patient's youth is glossed over by the patient herself and then by the fictional Freud, who thinks an earlier event is the key.
Really scandalous book that blends eroticism with violence and psychology to portray the horrors of the Holocaust. My English major roommate recommended it to me as his favorite book when I was working on my undergrad. After the first few chapters I was a little disturbed for him, haha. But when I reached the end I realized the powerful effect of the White Hotel. Entrancing, hypnotic, outrageous and multi-layered, this is a book you will not soon forget.
It seemed like everyone was in heaven, or some kind of after-world, and the protagonist (I use that term veeeeeeeeeeery loosely) and her mother were taking a walk while reuniting and talking about a threesome witnessed by the child protagonist of her mother, mother's twin sister, and mother's sister's husband.
This goes on for about 3/4 a page, and then the mother leans over to suckle from the daughter's breast.
This is only one of maybe 8 adult breast-suckling scenes in this book.
Now that I'm finished I would say the entire book reads with the confusion and blur of an old woman looking back on her life.
Pročitala sam prvu polovinu, koja je bila u vezi sa različitim seksualnim radnjama i fantazijama, ponekad nasilnim, i nije mi baš bilo jasno šta je TOLIKO strašno.E. Onda sam pročitala drugu polovinu.
Ma koliko ovo bilo vredno književno delo, a uverena sam da jeste, nisam sigurna da je pametno prirediti sebi takav emotivni i psihološki užas.Ali trenutak u kojem čitalac shvata zašto junakinju boli leva dojka, levi kuk i zašto ima odnose u toku menstruacije je vrhunska manipulacija strahom, gađenjem i užasom.
Mislim da nikad nisam čitala nešto što mi je baš ovoliko strašno.Volela bih da znam u kakvom je mentalnom stanju D.
There's a moment in Ernest Hemingway's novel To Have and Have Not which I thought was a real zinger at the time - we have been following Harry and his wife and their relationship intimately - they have some big financial problems but he loves her, and that's always good when a middle aged guy loves his wife don't you think, so you see her from his point of view.
I had a 3-unit course in Basic Psychology in college and all I can remember now about Sigmund Freud, which is a fictional character here and who narrated #5 above, is his interpretation of dreams: that dreams are repressed emotions and that if you dream of a snake or anything elongated it means you are longing for a penis and if you dream of a box or anything that resembles a container, is that you want to fuck a pussy.
I certainly conveyed my enthusiasm, but I am surprised too by all I left out that I would have included if writing today: the fact that an entire section of the book is written in verse; the extreme use of pornography in the erotic sections; the wonderful writing about an opera singer; and (looking at it again just now) the proportions, whereby the parts packing the greatest punch (the first and last) are also the shortest.On the other hand, I now wonder if it is a book that can be reviewed at all without spoilers.
It’s a book I can see myself reading again and again and getting something different, something more, out of it each time I take it up.I just read about the synchronicities Mr. Thomas observed during the writing of The White Hotel and during my reading of his masterpiece, I couldn’t help but see the book as an exploration of the interconnectedness of everything.
I love how he writes about the scent of pine (and quite synchronistically, when I opened the book to look for a passage about the pine trees, the book opened to the exact page for which I was looking!) and how Lisa finds comfort when she is able to see herself as having a continued existence.
Είναι ένα από τα λίγα βιβλία που με παίδεψε τόσο η βαθμολογία, όσο και η κριτική τους!
Η επιλογή της χρονολογικής αλληλουχίας των γεγονότων με κέντρισε ευχάριστα και παραμένει μία από τις θετικές εντυπώσεις που έχω κρατήσει.
(δεν θα αναφερθώ παραπάνω για να αποφύγω πιθανά spoiler)Πηγαίνοντας τώρα στην πλοκή, αφού διάβασα τα πρώτα κεφάλαια και έχοντας αποκτήσει ήδη μία κάποια αρνητική στάση, γύρισα να διαβάσω το οπισθόφυλλο για να σιγουρευτώ ότι πρόκειται για το ίδιο βιβλίο που είχα επιλέξει.
Ωστόσο καταφέρνει να θίξει αρκετά θέματα και σίγουρα να κεντρίσει τον αναγνώστη, του οποίου μόνο αδιάφορο δεν μπορεί να του περάσει το βιβλίο.
Be careful picking this one up is not for the feint of heart, but if you need a "sense of proportion" in your life and a paradigm shift in thinking would do you good, give it a go. Read other peoples nicely crafted reviews if you want but I think its best to pick it up without a clue what its about.
Безсрамно добра творба. Зашеметяващи обрати, невероятни хитросплетения, сочен авторов език, без да е разточителен на думи. Цялата тази богата интертекстуалност те държи в плен до последната страница.
He also, at times, cheapens the novel (though Thomas is good at keeping Freud as a device, rather than as a character); surely, the narratives and experiences would work as well without him, and Lisa’s ‘hysteria’ and psychosexual pain would be just as meaningful without the Freudian framing.
Her Jewish identity hinges on her encounters with anti-Semitism; her Judaism is an abstraction, not a theological or cultural touchstone, and one she is forced to confront at Babi Yar.Like many Jews, she exhibits a complicated (and even denialist) relationship to Judaism: she wears a crucifix, and – upon showing her gentile surname and paperwork to a German soldier -- is given the opportunity to escape the murdering.
Each separate fruit hissed and was extinguished as it touched the calm water.We then move to Lisa's life after psychoanalysis which is inevitably, unknown to us at the time, an extended train ride to the atrocity, the massacre at Babi Yar by the Nazis.
When her Ukranian murderer mutilates her breast and her genitals, the areas of her pain at the outset of the novel, the affect on the reader is an experience not often encountered with fiction.Luckily, Mr. Thomas helps us out of this emotional morass with an account of the afterlife at the end of the novel, or perhaps it is an account of some last fantasy of Lisa as she dies.
RECIPE FOR THE SUCCESSFUL NOVEL:Ingredients:Take 30% sexTake 20% HolocaustTake 20% FreudTake 10% deathTake 10% violenceTake 10% epistolaritySpices: Add erotic poetry to spice up the meal and classical music to boost the price.Be careful not to stir the ingredients together, each flavor should stand out on its own.! Please be sure not to include any good writing, plot or an underlying message, as they will make the meal heavy and indigestible.Happy reating!
I'm still not even sure if I like this book, but it gets five stars because after six years I'm still thinking about it, struggling to resolve it, admiring it for the kind of permission it gives other writers, wincing at how some passages could be so erotic while still enveloping the horror of genocide.
Why do I keep reading books that utterly destroy me? I don't know. It starts off tacky and eye-rolly, like REALLY, FREUD, WE'RE GOING THERE, REALLY, and then transition via pomo surrealist folderol to unexpected gutpunch. Anyway somehow I didn't expect it, I lost track of history in all those orgy breastmilk scenes. NB that the train is not really going to Palestine. Gutted. Weeping for the last 40 pages. Share and enjoy!
Както пише и в следговора на новото издание, "Белият хотел" е експериментален роман, който няма типична структура и е богат на интертекстуални връзки. Не трябва да се очаква стандартното развитие в един роман, при който има ясно поставени въпроси, на които накрая еднозначно е отговорено. Мисля, че романът трябва да се чете с доста внимание, за да се оцени. Винаги се опирам на системата в гудрийдс, така че 3/5 за мен си остава - хареса ми, без да съм крайно впечатлена от книгата и четенето й да е било изумително преживяване за мен.
Quite a bit of this book is erotic, except for the bit where Jews (including our female protagonist and those she loves) get cruelly murdered holocaust-style.
The author, a man, uses his female lead's voice to describe her hallucinatory fucking; he's a mighty apt transvestite.
The author, born a Methodist, describes in graphic detail the slaughter of Jews; he ripped that stuff off from Anatoly Kuznetsov.
I suppose heaven is a likely resort for any philosophy whose motor is suffering and loss.This is not a good beach book.
The White Hotel begins with an exquisite Freudian poem. The novel is dark as the history itself and full of alarmingly disturbing thoughts.“At my first hearing of a dream, I became alarmed, for it told me that the dreamer is quite capable of ending her troubles by taking her life. Train journeys are themselves dreams of death.”Destiny of an individual is decided long before one's birth and it is interconnected with the destiny of the entire world and our wishes hide in our dreams.
And what is going to happen cannot be endured."Is her trauma really the result of childhood memories, or could it be a dark premonition of the future?The drama is preceded by a short documentary, The Long Road to the White Hotel, telling the story of the many failed attempts to bring DM Thomas's novel to the screen and the making of the Radio 4 drama of Dennis Potter's screenplay.Potter was so inordinately good at writing the mind fantasising under profound pain: The Singing Detective
And what is going to happen cannot be endured."Is her trauma really the result of childhood memories, or could it be a dark premonition of the future?The drama is preceded by a short documentary, The Long Road to the White Hotel, telling the story of the many failed attempts to bring DM Thomas's novel to the screen and the making of the Radio 4 drama of Dennis Potter's screenplay.Written by DM ThomasOriginal Screenplay by Denis Potter under licence from Briarpatch Limited L.PDirected by Jon AmielThe Long Road to the White Hotel feature by Overtone Productions.Producers: Laurence Bowen and Peter EttedguiA Dancing Ledge production for BBC Radio 4.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0bg...
I didn't actually realize I liked it until I had put it down and thought/talked about it for a few days - Thomas tells the story of one of Freud's hypothetical patients through his letters to other psychologists and recording his patient's sexual and symbolic dreams (however, the narrative echoes one of Freud's actual patients who dreamed of a white hotel, something to look up once you've finished the book).
The horrific events at Babi Yar are described, bringing together the previous narrative of Freud's patient and connecting it to real events.
No worries, however.
Books are personal treasures and like good drugs, do different things for different people at different times.But at least for now, I am absolutely enjoying the hell out of The White Hotel.
Thanks probably to low expectations and ignorance.
I spread these pages knowing nothing of D.M. Thomas nor the concerns of his novel in question, other than that which could be gleamed from the picture above.
I have since been surprised, humored, intrigued, entertained and a myriad of emotions I hope we all occasionally encounter upon interacting with a work.
The structure is interesting, consisting as it does of sections that are related but a little disjointed.
Really, this seemed like two books with the ending section maybe being a separate novella.
The first part is essentially a case study about a sexual hysteric that I thought was ridiculous, although some of the imagery in the first section was interesting.
I read this for one of my book clubs and I think there will be lots to discuss.
It would be nice if we had chosen a book with lots to discuss that I also enjoyed, but I guess you can't have everything.
It's front-loaded with graphic, morbid, aggressive, detached sexuality.
I should clarify that the sexuality itself isn't morbid in nature but it's contrasted with morbid imagery occurring elsewhere simultaneously.
I read this book for my literary theory class and psychoanalysis describes this novel in which Feud himself is a character.
It is not a novel about sex.
It is a novel about the Holocaust.
By the time I reached the end of this book, I was crying.
If you can handle this book, I recommend it highly because it will affect you in some way.
I read this book many years ago, but still recall the gut-wrenching impact it had on me.
There were times when I thought I might not be able to read on any further, but I did, and with each change in tone the book became more and more disturbing, and yet more and more of a revelation.
The ending is hugely disturbing and incredibly powerful, and in a very rare occurrence for any book, left me heaving with sobs for nearly half an hour.
But, in its way, beautiful.
The way a gargoyle might be.
I used to be more patient, but I can't deal with tedious books anymore. This book had a lot of promise and the premise was interesting.The writing is beautiful.However, about 100 pages into it, with no hope of plot or character development,I've got nothing but pretty writing to keep me turning the pages. And that's not enough.I feel like I'm hearing someone retell a naughty dream made up entirely of strangers:'And then this guy... started sucking on this girl's breasts during dinner...An old lady saw it and started laughing, and outside, it started to rain pineapples...'Ugh. Not for me :(
The sixth D.M. Thomas novel I have read, and certainly the best so far (and I suspect it will be the best of his I'll ever read). It is poetic, intense, romantic, tragic, harrowing, beautiful. The prose is exquisite, the multi-layered story is moving.Thomas demonstrates that he is both a sensitive and strong writer, insightful, courageous, complex, ambitious, sympathetic, capable of contrasting sweetness with darkness in a way that doesn't disturb the balance of the work as a whole. Did I say 'work'? It's much more than that. It's a masterwork.
This is a story not for those with a weak constitution. The first two sections are riddled with explicit, vulgar sexuality. Just when you think you've been spared with an interesting psychoanalysis of a woman with hysteria, you're thrust into the cruel, horrific, and emotionally electrifying events of the Babi Yar massacre.Thomas is able to create a fiction-fact hybrid that truly makes you take another look at the human propensity for unfathomable cruelty. Its left a permanent mark within me.
