https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/727549.Kid_Rodelo
Edoardo Ballerini is a great narrator for this classic L'Amour western.
He gets the voice right for the character--more likely to use his brains than his fists, soft-spoken, laconic, honorable.
After he's released from jail, having served a year for a crime he didn't commit, he picks up the gold and heads for the coast.
And if he's so honorable, why did he take the stolen gold?
Unfortunately, the murderer and his pals who actually stole the gold escape prison and track him down.
Quintessential L'Amour western, with the landscape almost more dangerous than the outlaws and the Indians.
I read this, because my dad used to love Louis L’Amour westerns.
So, I’ll give you the first paragraph of this book:“The Yuma Desert, east of the Colorado River mouth, was like the floor of a furnace; but of the four riders, three were Yaqui Indians and accustomed to the heat, as were the buzzards swinging in lazy circles above them.
In fact, this book is probably only slightly more violent and less silly than the stuff my dad read when he was 12.I kind of like the old man a bit more now.
This year I finally got around to reading a L'Amour and it's pretty effective for what it aims at.
There's no undying prose here, nor the literary apotheosis via pulp someone like Jim Thompson could have made of this basic scenario - an ill-assorted group of drifters and outlaws scurrying across an inhospitable desert to get away with ill-gotten gold.
He puts a lot more detail into describing their desert surroundings, and even if his phrasing sometimes seems cribbed straight from a geography textbook, with a sprinkling of heavy-handed pulp stylistics added, he conjures up some pretty effective images.
Kid Rodelo is Louis L’Amour’s 1965 novelization of a screenplay based on his unpublished short story originally written in the late 1940s.
The plot is suspenseful, and the good guy is even more heroic than we are originally led to believe.Louis L’Amour’s portrayal of indigenous Americans isn’t exactly enlightened, although it is also not the most egregiously noxious depiction I’ve seen from writers of the same period.
The new paperback edition of this title includes the novel, the original story on which it was based, and some explanatory notes by L’Amour’s son Beau.
The result is work quite a bit better than what you'd expect.Kid Rodelo has all of that on display, wrapped in a surprisingly lean and fast timeline.
I can see why some argue this is one of L'Amour's best books (though I've not read enough of his work to confirm that).
L'Amour really gets it right and takes you there, though at times I felt his pacing was a little too fast to take things in.But that is a minor quibble.
Kid Rodelo is a fun and fast read, from an author I'm beginning to think was far better than the literary snobs who looked down on him.
This one is set as one of my books for the name challenge in the Bookworm Buddies group (I think).3.5 Stars Misplaced it for a week or two, but found it again and finished.
I liked it quite well, the desert setting was harsh and I could picture it all too well.
I liked the short timeframe of the story, the way the characters were isolated and in danger.
However, I still liked both of them, and I liked the way it all played out.
A good entertaining story to pass the time, and I'll be continuing with reading more of L'Amour's books in the future.
If you are a fan of Louis L'Amour, this is vintage L'Amour at his best: good guy gets into a bad situation, there is a struggle against a protagonist, the hero comes out in the end being underestimated and a heck of a shot, and the hero gets the girl.
are second to none: when the main character is dying of thirst out in the hot desert, a part of you feels thirsty, too.
While the story lines of most of L'Amour's books can be predicted, they are an enjoyable 1.5 to 2 hour diversion, and he makes you feel as if you are right in the middle of the action.
Great cast of characters: Dan Rodelo released from prison for a crime he didn't do. Gopher, Tom Badger, and Joe Harbin break out of prison. All after stolen gold, each with a different motive, they meet. Together with Nora Paxton, they travel across the desert, seeking a get-a-way boat.Nothing like the elements to show what a man or woman is made of. Each is tested, and not all pass the test.Great read. Looking forward to more L'Amour novels.
I was a First Read Winner of this book and I really enjoyed it. My Dad loved to read westerns that I used to pick out for him, and so this read had a real nostalgic feel for me. I am actually surprised I don't read more westerns since I do enjoy them, especially Louis L'Amour's, but I plan to rectify that in the future. I liked the storyline and characters it had plenty of suspense and action and a budding romance, plus for whatever reason it made me very thirsty. Very entertaining read.
I'm now a Louis L'Amour fan. This was the 2nd book of his that I read and I'm hooked. I like how he doesn't fool around. He tells a story and doesn't throw unnecessary & extra writing into it. Kid Rodelo was very interesting, exciting and suspenseful.
Note to self: bring water to the desert.
Another L'Amour book, this one dealing with connections with others and the search for redemption.
Small pocket book version but entertaining and easy reading. Kid Rodelo takes on the job of leading his group thru the desert to the gulf with Yaqui Indians chasing them.
not one of his great books but a pleasant read. just OK
Like Robert B.Parker, Louis L'Amour consistently delivers the goods. Strong righteous hero and a woman worth fighting for - Ah, those were the days!
This is basically a story of good vs. evil and greed vs. honor. It is also a story of survival and being hunted in the Sonoran desert. It is a gripping and hard to put down tale.
this here marks one of many l'amour stories i will read...the first in the ago, stationed on board the u.s.s. john s mccain, 32nd street naval station...i get on board the day before the cap'n informs ship's crew that the mccain will be no more...will be decommissioned...so much for seeing the world...saw instead mess-cooking, emptying the ship...shore duty, really, silly me for wanting more.and...i had to go out of my way to walk on grass...non-skid, asphalt, and concrete all around...so, these covers from l'amour appealed to me...i read a ton of them, enjoyed each and every one...i think my favorite might have been To the Far Blue Mountains...saw this one at a used-book sale yesterday and i could not resist.beginsthe yuma desert, east of the colorado river mouth, was like the floor of a furnace; but of the four riders, three were yaqui indians and accustomed to the heat, as were the buzzards swinging in lazy circles above them.
This review is for ALL my Louis L'Amour books!
(In order for me to put an actual review for each book by him, I would probably have to RE-read them all).But I CAN say this about his books: I was NEVER disappointed in ANY of his books!
Reading a Louis L'Amour western was like sitting back and watching a movie!
I read all Louis L'Amour westerns when I was a teen and into my mid 20's, at least once, several books I read twice!!
Please, give a Louis L'Amour book a try and just see if he's not the best western writer of all time!!
Some of the water in the desert theme in this 1966 western is reminiscent of the author's Last Stand at Papago Wells (1957).Western - Joe Harbin hadn't killed a man for a fortune in gold just to sit in prison and let Rodelo collect it.
To get fifty thousand dollars in gold across fifty miles of desert, the desperate band quickly learns how much they need each other---and how deep their greed and suspicion can run.
At the end of the journey lie the waters of Baja and a new life in Mexico, but first they have to survive the savage heat, bounty-hunting Yaqui Indians, and the shifting, treacherous nature of both the desert sands and their own conflicting loyalties.
I felt like I was there while reading it.
Pass the canteen please cause it's hot.Like some of his other standalone novels I would like to have the ending rewritten.
Everything ends just a tad too pat and tidy.
This one was not as bad as a few of the others in that regard; just a couple details at the end.
I guess I shouldn't criticize an author who is in the top ten sellers of all time.
He may have slipped to top twenty now with some new popular authors bumping old ones down.
This is the story of Dan Rodelo who service a year sentence in a Yuma prison for something he didn't commit.
There is some mystery as to Rodelo's motive, but I suspected it was an honorable one,as to why he wants the gold so much.
The reason isn't revealed until almost the end.
To avoid ruining the ending I won't say what the motive is.
L'Amour does a good job of describing the desert, the lack of water and terrain of th desert.
I found myself wanting water myself.
Well, dadgummit, I finally figured out why people read Louis L'Amour--the guy can tell a story!
I've been casting aspersions (silently, silently) from my elitist reading perch at a man I knew only as a prolific author of westerns.
Finding a leather- bound edition of Kid Rodelo in the cabin of the dude ranch we were at, and having nothing else to do by the firelight after the power went out (no snide remarks), I picked it up with a sigh...and couldn't put it down.
Just today I bought 2 more.
Yee-hah!
Good book. No frills, just a good story.
Well done and interesting. Not the most captivating western every written, but a solid bit of adventure with more than its fair share of little twists and turns. L'Amour leads off with simple questions and provides a readable, if treacherous, journey to their answers.
An okay western by L'amour, but not one of his best. Once the trek begins there can really only be one possible ending. As always, well written by L'amour, but not much plot here. Recommended only to western fans.
Pretty good, classic Louis L'amour. Got a little cheesy at the end, but enjoyable. Read it in Spanish (L'amour's action is good for holding my interest), although I forget how to say "softly, bitterly"...
This is a pretty good book.It always has something interesting. Dan Rodelo and Joe Harbin are always fighting between themselves but they know to survive they need each other.
Awesome book! Full of action and adventure.
Epic.
read some time in 1992
