https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54509.The_Empty_Space
This was suggested reading for my acting class and I was told it would probably be too deep for our standards but I actually really enjoyed it and got a lot from it. I must read for any fellow drama nerd.
It's a book about the current state of theater, written in 1968.
So it's hard to relate his opinions about the state of theater to today, not knowing if I agree with his assessment of 1968.2.
The book is inscrutable and high-minded to a fault.
I can't decide if I agree with him if I can't understand what the hell he's saying.Still, it's a book about aiming high, so he's not going to dumb down his language for the groundlings.
Of course, the book offers a lot of criticism without any suggestions for improvement (other than what basically amounts to "do better"), so you might just end up frustrated at the end.
I am abandoning this. Nothing to do with the book or Brook's erudition, though - I am stuck in a reading slump and this is not the ideal book for revival.Not rating It, either.
Having seen Brook's televised "The Tragedy of Hamlet," and his filmed version of "King Lear," not to mention, the idea of his most recent "Love is My Sin," I take his word for what it is: clear thoughts from one perspective of what the theater could be, how it should be, and what is should not be.
I am most interested in Brook's interpretations of Shakespeare and this book expostulates on the possibilities of what a Shakespearean play could be or how it could be staged, or how it so often, to the chagrin of Brook, falls into the realm of Deadly Theater (gaudy, costumes, overly heightened, etc.) and how to move away from that.
He breaks theatre down into 4 categories, Deadly, Holy, Rough and Immediate.
It is theatre that does not speak to its audience and that the performer takes for granted.
Brook says this is most theatre.
Holy theatre is that theatre that touches something in its audience that causes them to experience ritual.
The Immediate theatre, Brook is less clear about.
The importance of his immediate theatre is its nowness and its reaction to those watching it.
He says theatre will only succeed when it becomes necessary in the lives not only of those who perform but those who watch.
Alternately brilliant and boring. I think that Peter Brook is actually a profound man, but his writing on the theory of theatre gets tedious when he starts soliloquizing and forgets to include any means for the reader to put his abstractions into practice. At those times the book gets a self-infatuated tone, and loses believability. I spent most of the book slogging through, one paragraph at a time. That said, there are penetrating insights lodged within, and many times I felt he had unearthed a real gem.
Pats autorius ir knyga su visom nuorodom į teatro pasaulio grandus gal ir nėra iš lengvųjų, ypač žmogui, tiesiog įšokusiam į teatro teorijos lauką, bet knyga visai susiskaitė. Gal buvo kiek sudėtinga relate'inti, nemačius kokių tai klasikinių pastatymų ir vertinti autoriaus įžvalgas. Ir ne tik dėl to, kad jaučiuosi gan žalia teatro reikaluose, bet ir todėl, jog parašytos prieš pusę amžiaus tos įžvalgos gali pasirodyti nebe tokios auktualios. Bet vis dėlto, įstrigo kai kurie momentai, liečiantys grynai jausminį ir psichologinį išgyvenimą atliekant ar dalyvaujant teatro pasirodyme, aktoriaus santykį su savo amatu, draminiu kūriniu, publika. Tai va, visai nais.
Brook organiza sus ideas sobre el teatro con una metafísica de entrecasa.
Por eso, lo mortal tal como él lo define no es algo especifico del teatro.
es algo que se traslada muy fácilmente a la música, la escritura y la política.
La relación complicada entre lo mortal y lo tosco, por ejemplo, es una forma metafísica (y en este caso muy superior) de repensar la diferencia entre cultura de masas y cultura popular discutida en ciencias sociales.
El último capítulo es donde Brook intenta encontrar lo específico del teatro.
Concluye que en definitiva "una obra de teatro es juego".
Many people can easily go through life reading nothing but novels.
I admit that is better than not reading at all, of course, but it wouldn’t do for me.
While the novel is still my favourite genre, I always need to mix it with other reading matter: history, travel, short stories, graphic novels, essays, drama.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a collection of essays on theater before, though.The empty space is apparently an essential text for drama students; I’d never heard of it.
Writer Peter Brook, a celebrated director who worked with many famous actors and companies, divides his topic into four parts:Read more here
I like my theater like I like my men: deadly, rough, holy, and immediate.
What I found most interesting was Brook's examination of the role of the audience/spectator in theatre and how a "good house" can empower and participate with performers while a "bad house" can spoil a performance. While much of the book is more advice for actors and directors from the performance side, the parts which spoke to the connection between performers and audience members helped me to imagine what can be socially constructed between both groups within and during a live performance.

A concise yet erudite opinion of the theatrical condition, albeit in the 60s.
It's on this basis, you've got to regard Peter Brook's enthusiasm and social activism, as spin, and his text, has to be regarded as rather blatantly misogynist, in its male-focused momentum.p33 relays, 'Outstanding actors, like all real artists, have some mysterious psychic chemistry, half conscious and yet three-quarters hidden, that they themselves may only define as "instinct", "hunch", "voices", that enable them to develop their vision and their art'.
No real hope in making changes through the theatre, even to Peter Brook’s mindset, and, certainly an excuse for not stopping things like misogyny, racism, the psychiatric regime, through a production, but rather perpetuating ridiculous stereotypes through Peter Weiss Marat/Sade productions.
I wanted to know more about his experiments with the Theatre of Cruelty but the book offered not much in the way of information.
I wanted data, Brook wrote theory and some observation.
I just get annoyed when I walk away from a non-fiction book addressing something I care about--like the state of theater today, what makes it most effective, what its point even is, etc.--and feel that I've gained no practical knowledge of how to even daydream about resolving my concern.
This just wasn't the book I wanted.
I should go finish Artaud's book.
I've done that!-The idea that all the blocking and designs (sets, costumes, etc.) should always be a work in progress-The show where all the actors got to costume themselves and they were all from different time periods and things (I remember one was a cowboy)-When no one was coming to his show so he made it free and suddenly everyone wanted to come.
Even when they started charging admission again, it always sold out because everyone knew how good it was.
Read as course work for Helen Mirren’s Master Class on acting. Peter Brook, director of the Royal Shakespeare Company and several operas at The Metropolitan Opera, gives us a tour of the role of theater, past and present. Theater presides as the main character with Brook expounding on its various aspects and its importance in our culture. For actors, theater goers, and all interested in the arts.
Nobody who ever has or ever will stride upon a stage should be ignorant of this book. It is as essential to you as your next breath.
British theater and film director Peter Brook (still living though retired) is primarily known as an influential Shakespearean, though he has plenty of other credits.He outlines the major types of theater of the title - Deadly, Holy, Rough, Immediate - making clear that the distinctions are not new vs.
Who this book was written for is not quite clear, though the year of its publication, 1968, is marked in a number of ways, among them his frequent envious glances at the extent to which film has supplanted theater as the innovative medium.
Last month I read Peter Brook’s book on Shakespeare and thought its mix of generalized comment, detailed responses to staging Shakespeare and anecdote was quite fun but unfocused.
Maybe The Empty Stage should be categorized as meditations about the theatre, their value is found in the way they suggest or provoke ideas.
I imagine the more you are concerned with the theatre, the more Brook’s ideas and suggestions will rattle around in your brain, either inspiring or irritating, but I am sure they will provoke.
It definitely made me appreciate the many abstract concepts that actors need to consider and continuously shape in doing their art.
However I found Brook's ideas growingly hard to follow because he tends to use big hazy words and metaphors.
Most sentences and paragraph are long, and he jumps from one ideas to another without clear transition.
Like he can comment on actor, playscript writer, and theater critic in one lengthy paragraph.
Those who're a member of the theatre / performing art industry might find Brook's methapors more relatable though!
The Empty Space seems as important a study in theatre today as it did so many years ago when I first read it.
In his chapter on Immediate Theatre, Brook says of his his own writing: "As I continue to work, each experience will make these conclusions inconclusive again.
It is impossible to assess the function of a book—but I hope this one may perhaps be of use somewhere, to someone else wrestling with his own problems in relation to another time and place." As true as this might be, this work really needs to be freshly consumed or wholly revisited by anyone interested in the relationship between actor and audience.
Asks a lot of open ended philosophical questions.I don’t think I’ve ever had a book make me think this deeply.Theatre is living and breathing.
It is never ACTUALLY within definition.
Brooks offers four possible definitions.
A pure theatre unattainable.
We must attempt to be as pure as possible while understanding that “pure” is both without definition and defined by all - actor, audience, playwright, society (both current and timed).Brooks says it best at the end: Even as he writes it, it is out of date.
While, of course, this is true, his book is remarkably necessary for its insights.
This is a book that every theatre practitioner should read from time to time. Consider a plumb line for keeping you honest in your work. I first read this book close to twenty years ago when I started in my theatre studies. I didn’t appreciate it then. What’s changed? Age, for one, and experience as another. I don’t consider myself a professional theatre artist by any means. The breadth of my director has been on the middle and high school level. But I’m beginning to broaden my experience by embarking on a directing role in community theatre.
One of the issues with a lot of writing about theatre is that can be abstract. Even spiritual to a degree. Spiritual in the sense that pseudo points are made through bonkers metaphor. Although this writing at times does fall into this trap. And has a tendency to sound sphinx like. It has some value in it. Esp. the first chapter which is still a major problem where I am in Canada. And important read for theatrical artists.... esoteric for others.
I feel like this is one of those "Emperor's New Clothes" books. There are some really intriguing ideas but overall, I found it full of waffle and negativity. As a collection of speeches, essays and conversation that has been crafted into a book, I felt it lacked structure. It seems awfully dated too for the modern reader. That said, I did really enjoy the last chapter so I am glad I forced my way through as it contained many thoughts that I hadn't considered.
One of the seminal books on theatre by master theatre director Peter Brooke. I first read this in the 1970s and have re-read several times. A must read for any serious theatre or acting student. Brooke's work makes you realise how artistically impoverished most modern theatre and television productions are.
This was a wonderful read. In many ways, I find it represents a middle ground that I've been looking for in my personal journeys in theatre - it grapples with the contradictions inherent in theatrical work, and I think it does an adequate job providing potential answers to those questions. Altogether an engaging look at what makes theatre good, bad, and indifferent.
So much to ponder and consider from rereading this after studying it in college. The final chapter and the questions of immediate theater and its worth resound deeply, even/especially today. Competition is no longer just the cinema but all the online media too.
A must for the people who are interested in performing arts.
