https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52036.Siddhartha
So there’s a damn dirty hippie in India named Siddhartha who is supposed to be seeking spiritual enlightenment, but instead of going to a good Christian church like a normal person, he wanders around the woods for a while with some other damn dirty hippies.
Then, just when he’s having a good ole time; doing business, drinking, gambling and making time with the woman, the dang fool’s hippie ideas pop up again, and he walks away from all of it.
Well, this hippie ends up living in a hut down by the river.
Whatever. Blah blah blah Samana. Blah blah blah Kamala. Blah blah blah Samsara. Blah blah blah River. Blah blah blah Om.
My apologies if this review reeks of "GUSHness." However, it gave me that ONE-OF-A-KIND reading experience that doesn't come along often and so I think it is certainly worthy of the praise I shall heep upon it. Beautifully written and a deeply personal story, Hesse has created the ultimate expression of the journey of self-discovery. The book details the story of Siddhartha, the young and brilliant son of a Brahmin in ancient India. The Brahmin are the uber revered caste comprised of poets, pri
Beautifully written and a deeply personal story, Hesse has created the ultimate expression of the journey of self-discovery.
: How refreshing is it that their most revered group is not made up of morally questionable athletes, morally suspect celebrities and morally bankrupt politicians...I'm just saying!!]At the beginning of the story, despite having absorbed all of the teachings of his father and followed all of the religious rites and rituals of his caste, Siddhartha is not content.
Through elegant and deeply evocative writing, Hesse demonstrates, through Siddhartha's journey, the fundamental value of each and every person on Earth.
MY BEST BOOK OF 2017!  In life we all look for meaning, we all look for something to give us a purpose and, in essence, a reason to actually be alive. Nobody wants to get to the end of their journey and realise it was all for nothing, and that their days were utterly wasted. So how do we find this meaning? “One must find the source within one's own Self, one must possess it. Everything else was seeking -- a detour, an error.” We must find our own peace. Siddhartha followed the teachings of othe
Through experiencimg such things, he learns that they are shallow and transitory; they will never create the feeling of lasting happiness within his soul, so he walks out once more with the full realisation that peace can only come from one place: himself.
So we rely on allegories to teach us these ideals, to make us understand that happiness is not equitable with materialism, and to make us realise that seeking something too ardently may mean we miss it altogether.
Seeking the meaning of life is not the answer, living life, the life of peace and compassion, is.
If I could turn back time*or perhaps pass through some portal which brings me face-to-face with my 14-year-old self, there are so many books I would recommend to little me, grabbing my shoulders to shake my malnourished frame and insisting that I get to reading them as soon as effin possible instead of waiting until I'm too old and cynical and hyper-critical to appreciate and relate to what they have to say.
Fortunately, Hesse takes his novel in a much more engaging direction by focusing in on a formerly devout and self-restricting member of the Samana movement who falls in love with a real Playboy Bunny™ of a gal, a lusty little obsession which quickly moves him away from his faith and into her privates.
717. Siddhartha, Herman HesseSiddhartha is a novel by Hermann Hesse that deals with the spiritual journey of self-discovery of a man named Siddhartha during the time of the Gautama Buddha. The book, Hesse's ninth novel, was written in German, in a simple, lyrical style. It was published in the U.S. in 1951 and became influential during the 1960s. سیذارتا - هرمان هسه (اساطیر، فردوس) ادبیات آلمانی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه دسامبر سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: سیذارتا؛ هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: پرویز داریوش؛ تهران،
در جنگل، به فن ریاضت و تفکر به شیوه ی مرتاضان میپردازد، میکوشد تا نفس و موانع راه نیل به حقیقت را، در خود از بین ببرد.
ولی هرچه بیش، پیش میرود، و هرچه بیشتر نفسش را تحت انقیاد درمیآورد، میبیند به همان اندازه، از حقیقت به دور افتاده است.
روز دیگر، بودا را از افکار خود مطلع میکند.
قایقران، فن گوش فرادادن به آواز رود را، به او یاد میدهد.
سدهرتها، با آمدن پسر، خود را شاد تصور میکند.
سدهرتها، برای یافتن پسر، میخواهد از رود بگذرد.
He leaves home with his friend Govinda and joins a group of ascetics (the Samanas) who have made renunciation a way of life.
Leaving Govinda to become a Buddhist ascetic, Siddhartha buries himself in the sensual world across the river, where Kamala the courtesan trains him up in the pleasures of the flesh and Kamaswami the merchant instructs him in the secrets of commerce.
The river flows, and becomes one with the ocean.
And I finished it with the verdict: contains wisdom, but lacks depth, boring at times, and do not grabs your heart, and is not extra-ordinary in any way.
It is the story of common man, just like you and me, who goes through the struggles of life.
Even the character Siddhartha, as I came to realize, was as fragile and incomplete & imperfect as me or any common man.
Now I understand, after many years, that Hesse has written from the point of view of a common man, not a protege like Buddha or Adi Shankaracharya.
I taught this book to juniors, and when I did I became frustrated with a student when I introduced it, because he let his classmates know that he'd already read it and it sucked.
In fact, that student himself said it was pretty good and that he'd only skimmed it the last time he read it.
Another student said it was his favorite book that we'd read so far.
Anyway, they seemed to like it well enough.The third section was almost certainly a harder sell.
Read the book if you want to know it.
As an old philosophy professor of mine once said: "You can learn a great deal about German Protestantism from reading Siddhartha, but almost nothing about Buddhism".What ultimately emerged from the Theosophist movement was not a branch of Western Buddhism, but the 'New Age Movement': a grab bag of the same old Western ideas dressed up as mystical Oriental wisdom.
Indeed, the central idea of the inane self-help book 'The Secret' and of Siddhartha are the same: the 'Law of Attraction', which is not a Buddhist principle.Like most of Hesse's work, it belongs in the 'Spiritual Self-Help' section, where vague handwaving and knowing looks are held in higher esteem than thought or insight.
There is, Siddhartha comes to believe, no single illuminated path for all men and women to follow.
We must all suffer, and no warning against it will ever help us.
For to live some kind of bizarre life of comfort that prevents suffering also prevents our finding peace.
It fulfills for me the fundamental requirement of all good fiction: that it reveal a fully imagined world.
And isn't that what we really require from narrative: that it take us out of ourselves; that it, to paraphrase John Gardner (The Art of Fiction, Grendel, Mickelsson's Ghosts, Nickel Mountain, October Light, etc.), perpetuates the dream?
Has it ever happened to you that you are standing, facing a magnificent, breathtaking view, in solitude, and a strong wind hits you in the face? You try to stay still, with eyes closed and then an involuntary smile comes across your face? This book was like that.
هنری میلر درباره این کتاب میگوید: سیدارتا داروی شفابخشی است که از انجیل عهد جدید مؤثرتر استباید اعتراف کنم که سیدارتها مرا هم شفا دادو یک اعتراف دیگر اینکه،هروقت این ریویوی پایینی را می بینم از خودم شاکی می شومچون خیلی ناقصهشاید یک بار دیگه کتاب رو خوندم و آنچه را از کتاب فراگرفته ام به تمامی در اینجا بیاورمیعنی کل کتابو:):درمورد کتابسيدارتها پسر نوجواني است كه براي پيدا كردن شعله حقيقت بي تاب شده و ابتدا زندگي برهمني و بعد زندگي شمني را بر می گزیند.شمن ها همه تلاششان این است که "من" خویش را از

Lately, even before I read this book, I was noticing some book opinion that "I-would-like-this-book-better-at-my-younger-age", especially  Cecily's review about The Alchemist  that I couldn't agree more.
I cannot help myself comparing this book with The Alchemist, although Siddharta is the better one.
I believe if I read this ten years ago, I could appreciate more about the plot.
But there is a Catch-22 situation: ten years ago, I don't know enough to appreciate the Vedic jargons on the book.The plot is obviously the journey of spiritual enlightenment.
Majority of the book is struggling with philosophy and then the ending...
For years, and when I say years it is actually more like decades, I have seen this classic book from time to time but I have never read it.
One of my Goodreads groups is reading it this month, so I figured that now is as good a time as any to give it a go.
I am not sure how close to any actual lore Hesse's version is, but it was interesting to listen to.I saw some comments out there about this book being slow.
If you are really into stories about philosophy and spirituality, yes.
If you are into reading all the classics, yes.
Hermann Hesse writes as though his words are god's perspective, but I don't believe in god... And, for the most part, I think god is boring. I believe most people like this book because they think they will look dumb if they don't.
No soy muy aficionado de la literatura espiritual, e incluso muchas veces la rehuyo, pero de todas formas algo en este libro me llamaba la atención.
Esto puede no hablar muy bien del contenido literario o espiritual de Siddhartha, pero en realidad siento que fallé en avanzar a una velocidad adecuada porque en ese entonces no me había «abierto» a lo que me podía contar Hesse.
Y debo aceptar que fue un viaje extraordinario, por el que recorrí con el samana Siddhartha su búsqueda de la sabiduría suprema y la paz del alma de forma voyeurista pero no por eso menos auténtica.
Descomponer información en lenguaje puede llegar a ser factible, pero no resulta así con una experiencia.
What is the meaning of life? I don't know, and you're not going to find the answer in this book, although I've read some reviews of readers who claim it changed their lives, so there you go.
I must confess, that I wasn’t able to grasp that this novel deals with the spiritual journey of an Indian man named Siddhartha during the time of the Buddha, till the very end of this novel.The novel traces Siddhartha’s journey for enlightenment.
He is greatly dissatisfied and travels to live with Samanas, practicing a life of asceticism for several years.
He meets the Enlightened One, Gautama Buddha (the real deal!), and goes further to experience life in the city.
He experiences things he has deprived himself of in his years as a Samana, learns the art of love from the great courtesan Kamala, and makes money as a merchant.
I can’t remember all the responses, but without hesitation, one teacher told me, “Siddhartha, because it showed me a completely different perspective on life.”A few months later, one of my favorite teachers of all time, Anita Dellaria, passed out a few books for everyone on the last day of English class.
I won’t be giving up every single material possession I own after reading this book, but I will be thinking differently about what really matters in life and how to deal with (and ultimately transcend/learn from) disappointment, rejection, and anything else that makes life suck sometimes.A quote from one of my favorite passages:“At times he heard within him a soft, gentle voice, which reminded him quietly, complained quietly, so that he could hardly hear it.
Siddhartha rejects his life as a Brahman's son and goes out into the world in a quest for enlightenment, to live as an ascetic.
After meeting Buddha, Siddhartha rejects the ascetic life for a more material one, the life of a merchant, learning the ways of love from a courtesan, and in time leaves that life behind as well.
My favorite is that wisdom can't be taught but it can be learned.I highly recommend this book to those interested in Eastern Philosophy and Buddhism and those needing a little more than gun play and werewolf attacks.
Old pre-read review Choose Life.
Choose a job.
Choose a career.
Choose a family.
Choose good health, low cholesterol, and dental insurance.
Choose fixed interest mortgage repayments.
Choose a starter home.
Choose your friends.
Choose leisurewear and matching luggage.
Choose a three-piece suit on hire purchase in a range of fucking fabrics.
Choose DIY and wondering who the fuck you are on Sunday morning.
Choose rotting away at the end of it all, pissing your last in a miserable home, nothing more than an embarrassment to the selfish, fucked up brats you spawned to replace yourselves.
Choose your future.....
But of these Everyman-overtaking-his-destiny novels, this one belongs right above “The Alchemist” (you know that Coelho was completely aware of the conventions which make up these type of stories), but not superior to “The Life and Times of Michael K.” by Coetzee, and definitely not as fun, rambunctious, random, nor bafflingly-surreal as the French classic “Candide.” Students should be encouraged to read Voltaire—in this case, although not in all of them, French lit undermines the German type.P.S. Two guests of mine have already left me a copy of this--such a tradition for literary geeks to be a part of.
Είμαι σκληρός αλλά προσπαθώ να επαναπροσδιορίζω, να μη γίνομαι απόλυτος κι αδυσώπητος.Το βιβλίο αυτό λέει την ίδια ιστορία που λένε όλα τα μεγάλα βιβλία για τη φθορά του ανθρώπου τόσο μέσα στο ομοιογενές σύστημα μοναχικότητας, κατάκτησης της γνώσης κι εξεύρεσης του εαυτού, όσο και στην εντονότητα του κόσμου.
Ένα ακόμη σημαντικό μάθημα αυτής της κοπής βιβλίων είναι πως ο ρόλος μας δεν είναι αυτός του κριτή, ποιός είμαι εγώ να κρίνω, μπορώ να πορεύομαι και η δυναμικότητα δεν αναιρείται απ' την υπομονή.
«Τη γνώση μπορεί να τη μεταδώσει κανείς, την σοφία όμως όχι».«Παιδιά είναι οι άνθρωποι.»Αυτό το βιβλίο με συγκλόνισε!
First off I thought this book was going to be about the Buddha not some random sinful man who coincidentally shares the same name!Siddhartha is a patronizing, stuck-up, heartless young brahmin who believes that he's pretty much superior to everyone else around him, despite that fact that his only skills are the ability to "think, pray, and fast" which let's face it is pretty useless in the real world, unless you have other skills to back it up!
In one section of the book Siddhartha says this about himself: "All whom I meet on the way are like Govinda (his friend).
Then, revisiting the river he was at years earlier, and meeting the same wise but uneducated ferryman who helped him cross, he has a sort of epiphany.
And he reconnects with a childhood friend, now a Buddhist monk, who recognizes in Siddhartha true enlightenment.What an unusual but powerful book: quiet but full of profound things to say about what’s ultimately important in life.
I can see how the book would have resonated with generations of young people in the 1960s seeking meaning in a society clamouring after wealth and power.It makes you think about essential things: How important are possessions?
3,5 αστεράκια Λίγο με απώθησε στην αρχή, αλλά στη συνέχεια αποκτά ενδιαφέρον. Μεταφέρει κάποια μηνύματα ή μάλλον διδαχες που σε βάζουν σε σκέψεις. Γλυκό παραμυθάκι με ένα βαθύτερο νόημα!!
“إن المعنى و الحقيقة لا يحتجبان في مكان ما وراء الأشياء .. إنما هما في الأشياء، فيها جميعا.”     " هكذا تسير الأمور .. كل شيء لم يبلغ نهايته من المعاناة، ولم يبلغ خاتمته النهائية، يعود من جديد، ويعاني الأحزان نفسها. ""إن النهر في كل مكان في الوقت نفسه .. في المنبع وفي المصب .. في الشلال والمرسى، في التيار والمحيط وفي الجبال، وفي كل مكان.وإن الحاضر هو وحده الموجود بالنسبة إليه، لا ظل الماضي ولا ظل المستقبل."   " لقد تعلم هذا من النهر .. أن ينتظر وأن يصبر. وأن ينصت.جلس يصغى في الطريق الأغبر .. ي
ما أصعب الحيرة الغامضة في قلب الدنيا ..‏فرّ هارباً من كل شيء، وباحثاً عن كل شيء في الوقت نفسه.جرب حياة الزهد والتجرد، بعدها عام هائماً في جنة الإغواء، ومملكة الشياطين ..لم يجلب المال، والتمرد، والشهوات، ولا حتى القليل من السعادة.بل لف كل ذلك على روحه الهم، وطوق عنقه بالثعابين.كل لذة بثمن ..
اتكأ سدهارتا عليها، ولف ذراعه حول جذعها ثم تطلع إلى المياه المخضرة التي تتدفق تحته.
متأثراً بأساطير الخلود، اسلوب الإنعزال والتفرد الذي يقود البطل إلى ذاته على طريقة "الطقوس الهندية القديمة".صنع بيئة متداخلة عكس فيها فكرته ورؤيته ولكن ليس بلغته الأصلية بل بلغة أخرى وأسلوب آخر.فلسفة هندية أخذتنا إلى ما قبل الميلاد إلى عصر بوذا وأجواء الهند الروحية آن ذاك.((سدهارتا قال: كانت لي أفكار و معارف، نعم..
How happy we are with the life we are so busy in living?And how busy we are in thinking all other worldly doings than life itself….And here Hermann’s Sidhartha points a score over us.When we look back into years that have passed, the moments that are gone, the memories fading away swiftly, and new ones forming in their place with equal swift, what all these counts are wanting is the incidence of inner-peace.
In this light, Siddhartha’s world outlook is both naïve and hardly instrumentive to bringing about a better world.The world we can make a better place to live in, better than some imaginary eternal happy fields, and better than the scriptures proposes it to be...
