https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32418.Hannibal
If I saw you everyday, forever, I would remember this time.   And they say psychopaths aren't romantic. (view spoiler)[  Their relationship has a great deal to do with the penetration of Clarice Starling, which she avidly welcomes and encourages. It has much to do with the envelopment of Hannibal Lecter, far beyond the bounds of his experience. It is possible that Clarice Starling could frighten him. Sex is a splendid structure they add to every day.  Hannibal Lecter and Clarice Starling. Havi
If I saw you everyday, forever, I would remember this time.
And they say psychopaths aren't romantic.
(view spoiler)[  Their relationship has a great deal to do with the penetration of Clarice Starling, which she avidly welcomes and encourages.
It has much to do with the envelopment of Hannibal Lecter, far beyond the bounds of his experience.
It is possible that Clarice Starling could frighten him.
Sex is a splendid structure they add to every day.
Hannibal Lecter and Clarice Starling.
Having sex.
Everything I thought I knew is a lie.
(hide spoiler)]So that just happened… I need time to process.
What changed between the publication of The Silence of the Lambs and the publication of Hannibal?
Well, what changed was the character of Hannibal Lecter.
In both Red Dragon and The Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal was a minor (though quite compelling) character.
Enter Jonathan Demme.When Jonathan Demme made the movie version of Silence, he said that he wanted the audience to believe that Lecter was the smartest man alive.
Now everyone thought of Anthony Hopkins when they thought of Hannibal Lecter, and they believed he was the smartest psycho alive.
عنوانها: هانیبال؛ ادامه ی سکوت بره ها؛ پرونده هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه فوریه سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: اصغر اندرودی؛ تهران، نشر البرز؛ 1378؛ در 615 ص؛ شابک: 9644422333؛ عنوان: هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: شهناز مهدوی؛ تهران، نشر هامان؛ 1378؛ در 598 ص؛ شابک: 9649221816؛ عنوان: هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: کورس جهانبیگلو؛ تهران، دایره؛ 1378؛ در 374 ص؛ شابک: ایکس - 964683924؛ چاپ دوم 1388 ؛ شابک: 9789646839243؛ عنوان: پرونده هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: مجید نوریان؛ تهران، چکاوک؛ 1389؛ در 366 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1390؛ شابک: 9789648957242؛ عنوان: هانیبال؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: الهام دژکام؛ تهران، ؛ 1390؛ در 519 ص؛ شابک: 9789648957266؛ کتاب نخست از این سری: اژدهای سرخ نام داشت، که هانیبال در پایان آن داستان، به زندان میافتد.
He’s Hannibal alright, but she’s not Clarice! This is the third novel in the “Hannibal Lecter” book series. WILL THE REAL MAIN CHARACTER PLEASE STAND UP? I already explained in my review of The Silence of the Lambs that I became fan of the story for Clarice Starling instead of Dr. Hannibal Lecter, and pondering about the “ball effective time” of Lecter in the first two books, I still believe that Thomas Harris never thought that Hannibal Lecter would become the leading character in the book ser

It felt as if Lecter was made and MADE and freaking forced to look like an intellectual.
And I don't really give a damn about Dr. Lecter's string theory equations (was that supposed to make him more likeable, him penning supposedly brilliant time physics while drugging Clarice out of her mind??).
The things she told Dr. Lecter were often surprising to her, sometimes distasteful to a normal sensibility, but what she said was always true.
The drugs that held her in the first days have had no part in their lives for a long time.
Hannibal happens to be one of my favorite fictional characters and with this book I became more enamored with him. Yes, it's twisted but me likes him a lot!!
I have a theory about this horrible book.Both  Red Dragon and  The Silence of the Lambs are formidable pieces of pop fiction.
They are well-written thrillers with great descriptions and characters.
They were both adapted into great movies.
He knew that his next novel would be snapped up for big bucks for the screen rights.
He knew he would not get any control over the script.
And Mr. Harris would be laughing all the way to the bank.This theory makes it possible to think that Thomas Harris is talented.
There are other theories that eliminate that possibility.
“Did you ever think, Clarice, why the Philistines don't understand you? It's because you are the answer to Samson's riddle. You are the honey in the lion.” Clearly, the world didn’t need ( 'want' is another matter, of course ) one more novel featuring Hannibal Lecter. At the end of Silence of the Lambs, the good doctor had escaped the clutches of the law, after having treated the local authorities to a grotesque display of Grand Guignol theatre by way of parting gift. This was a more than fitti
But of course Harris - for a variety of reasons, financial considerations probably being the main one - couldn’t resist revisiting Lecter, and 11 years after Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal arrived, which places Lecter prominently in the foreground, now living in Florence as a museum curator under the alias of Dr. Fell.As can be expected, the mere fact of him being no longer confined significantly diminishes the interest the character previously managed to pique.
That’s all it took for Harris to destroy the essence of Clarice Starling, one of the best loved female characters in all of fiction, only in order to ham-fistedly drive home the theme of mutual attraction between her and Lecter.
I was hesitant to read Hannibal, various people told they hated the book and Everyone said they hated the movie and since I Loved both the book and movie versions of Red Dragon & The Silence of the Lambs...I was worried...Very worried.
I just kept putting it off & putting it off until I finally decided to force myself to read it for my Read-A-Thon and I started reading it Friday & finished on Sunday because despite the 544 page count Hannibal is a fast read.
Gothic horror detective chase story, blends genres with great ease, affirming Harris as a master storyteller- as if we didn't already know.
Silence was the story of Clarice Starling, so there is a lot of hope and innocence to it.
Sweet God. It really puts the reader in his/her place, reminding you that you have no control over the characters you read.
The author is in charge and he will take you into places, dragging and screaming, that you don't want to know.
Harris is James Gumb from Silence of the Lambs and this book is the pit he threw Catherine Martin into.
And of course, our two rivals are back.Clarice Starling gets the worst of it in "Hannibal".
In other words, she's lost what made her human in the previous book.
Harris' previous efforts, "Red Dragon" and especially "Silence of the Lambs" are both terrific.
In both, Lecter plays a role (small in "Dragon" and of course, much larger in "Lambs") but supporting roles.
Smell yourself." Harris went further with "Lambs", with a myriad of themes, all of them intriguing, all of them meticulously developed.
I know this isn't the popular opinion, but I think Harris did a brilliant job wrapping up the series.The plot is as diabolical as Silence of the Lambs was, this time concentrating more on Clarice and Hannibal’s “relationship.” Hannibal Lecter is explored a lot more through internal dialogue; I learned a about his though process (disturbing as it was).
(!) I don’t know what this says about ME, but the bottom line is Harris did his job so well with the last scenes, he almost did it a little ‘too’ well.It ties into the becoming, that bizarre act of transformation focused on by Jame Gumb, made famous in the series most famous work, Silence of the Lamb.
By the time he came to write Hannibal, ten years after his previous book, The Silence of The Lambs, he must have felt some serious pressure.
The fact that Hannibal is the book it is, when written under these circumstances, makes it all the more remarkable.To call it a crime novel is doing it a grave injustice and reading it as such will also leave the reader disappointed.
Treat this book more as gothic fairytale and you won't be disappointed.
The greatest triumph of The Silence of The Lambs is, as iconic as the film version is, it scarecely registers as you read the book.
Movie, Y U NO B LIEK BOOK?!
This book was IMO a giant turd of words.
For one, Lecter needs to remain a secondary character, the kind that will offer advice and feed on personal information of the people interviewing him.
If I don't care about one character story line which was 1/3 of the book, it is hard for me to love the entire book.
She is like one of those rogue cop characters from 80s action movies where she plays by her rules and even if she ends up saving lives, her actions are frowned upon because it seems the end NEVER justifies the means.
Not even close to the first two books and don't listen to King.
The book starts off wonderfully with Harris's visualization; you can see everything you read.
And you are eating this up the whole time, because it seems that Harris is once again quite the masterful story teller.
The best way I can describe it is it seems like he took his time and thought out every little detail like it was the master term paper.
But then all of a sudden he realizes he doesn't have the time needed to finish it so he rushes it and throws an ending together.
And of the ending!
Sure, cat and mouse games were predominant, and they were satisfyingly concluded, but the true joy for me came with not only identifying with, but actively loving the title character.
Clarise, on the other hand, has become a much more interesting character.I'm not certain how much I believe her own transformation.
A completely willing slave?
The only conclusion I have to make is that her alteration is completely of her own choosing.
And that's what makes it a love story.The question makes it delicious, of course.
When Clarice goes back to the hospital, she finds a previous patient that was kind of close with Hannibal, and there's an entire scene about that; that goes nowhere.
A horrible ~SHOCKINGLY TWISTING ENDING!!!!!~(TM) with Hannibal brainwashing Clarice and making her into his perfect femme fatale doll, because she obviously wasn't good enough for him before, when she was in control of herself, right??That's especially insulting when you see that "it's not supposed to be like that!" when Thomas Harris makes sure to mention that "Hannibal didn't succeed!
Again, I'd seen the film before I read the book and so most of the major plot occurences I was already aware of, but there are more differences between the two Hannibal medias than in the films of Harris' previous two novels.
The reason that I decided to read this series was because the film Hannibal was tragically haunting near the end, and so it would be my luck that the end is where the two medias differ extremely.
The only constant is the two main characters, Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter, and the feelings, thoughts and actions which occur when their paths collide.
One might be tempted to question the general mental state of an author who makes us root for a sociopathic devourer of human flesh.
He got the cold shoulder.........Two cannibals are having dinner together and talking."You know," says the first, "I really can't stand my mother-in-law"The second ones shrugs and says "so have the potatoes.".........Why don't cannibals eat comedians?They taste funny................Cannibals capture a Frenchman, and Englishman, and a New Yorker.
They hand him a sword and he shouts "Vive la France!" before plunging it into his chest."I'll take a fork," says the New Yorker.So the cannibals hand him a fork, and he starts stabbing himself all over.
It had nothing to do with my expectations being too high, the simple fact is Harris lost the plot with Hannibal and I'm not sure how or why he could get it so wrong.
The story is so absurd and OTT that I even wondered if post-SOTL Harris had started to see the Lecter character as an albatross and wanted to bury it along with the good Doctor's victims.
A whole book devoted to Lecter takes away a lot of the enigma Harris so brilliantly built around him in Red Dragon & SOTL.
The tragedy of this book is that Harris takes the story almost into the realms of science fiction.
Hannibal is not only a book that revolves around a killer and his unusual relationship with an FBI Agent - it's a close examination of good versus evil, innocence versus corruption, and most of all, the evils of institutionalized misogyny and how the people we think we are supposed to trust betray us in the most harmful and damaging ways.
It is not Hannibal who broke Clarice in the end, or who caused her to utterly change her moral wiring.
And not in the way they'd have wanted.This novel brutally shows us the very worst of humanity and not only in Hannibal himself.
There are four books in this series, but the ending in 'Hannibal' seems to be the end of the book series.
I've heard that book 4 'Hannibal Rising' is some what of a prequel.
I start the book tomorrow.What can I say about this story.
Clarice Starling is still our main character.
Our main villain is vile and Hannibal Lecter is still encouraging us readers to carry on in Starlings plight.
This novel is a character driven story.
He is the only character of the novel that I had no feelings toward.
***Edit: Second time reading it:"You are a warrior, Clarice.
I KNEW that I would love this book about a hundred times more the second time around!
I didn't really understand the relationship between Hannibal and Clarice before, but I think I do now.
But. At the end of the book I really found myself cheering for Hannibal Lector, and when I realized I was doing it I found myself confused.
Is Hannibal a monster?
This book really made me question a lot of morals and ethics, which is a good thing because it really made me think about some things I normally wouldn't.
Margot is complex, never revealing exactly where she stands until the end.On the other hand, I have a significant problem with making the villain the hero.
Up to this point Harris has skillfully made Hannibal Lecter fascinating without being sympathetic, a villain that we want to see again, but never can empathize with.
A redemption story would have been one thing, however Lecter is the same sadistic killer at the end of the book as he was at the beginning.
While it’s realistic and welcome that she becomes hardened by her journey, the result of her character is absolutely cruel to the reader and completely against who she’s been up to the end.
The part where (view spoiler)[Hannibal makes the detective eat his own brains (hide spoiler)] gave me nightmares.Still does....why the effff did I bring that up again.
I have overly optimistic hopes that Thomas Harris will surprise everyone with another addition, but I doubt that I'll be that lucky.I've read a lot of reviews which have said that Hannibal is far worse than any of the other books, and that the ending (different from the film's) is too unrealistic to believe.
It is the ending the series HAD to have, and written perfectly - in that I would quite happily beg Thomas Harris, in person, to continue on a 'what-happened-next' basis in a new book.
2.5Kitap 430'lara kadar çok güzel ve heyecanlı ilerledi, yazar gerçekten iyi bir kurguya imza atmıştı, her sayfa da dolu doluydu.
Fakat 430'dan sonrası benim için kabus gibiydi, yazarın bu kısımlar tabii ki de rüyaydı demesini ve her şeyin normale dönmesini ne kadar istesem de her şey daha kötüye gitti.
Seriye devam edip bitirme isteğim de kalmadı açıkçası.Kitabı okurken zaman zaman bu Thomas Harris'e ait bir kitap değilmiş hissine kapıldım, dili değişikti.
Yazardan mı çevirmenden mi kaynaklanıyor bilemedim ancak serinin önceki kitaplarından farklı bir havası vardı.
Kitaptaki bazı bölümler İtalya'da geçiyordu, kitabın içinde çok fazla İtalyanca kelime vardı, bazılarının çevrilmemesi doğaldı ancak İtalyanca diyaloglar ve cümleler çevrilmeliydi bence.
The conclusion to 'The Silence Of The Lambs' left the door wide open for the novel's villain, Doctor Hannibal Lecter.
Although Hannibal himself has gone from antagonist to protagonist in this novel, his new nemesis Mason Verger is a considerable creep-show all of his own.
Clarice Starling, protagonist from 'The Silence Of The Lambs', is back in the mix (as are several supporting characters from that book), looking for Lecter while dealing with the subversive problems and politics of working as female agent in the FBI.
The manhunt for the cannibal has gone international, and Hannibal seems to be playing a game of cat and mouse with his pursuers to some extent.
One of my favourite books of all time pure quality.
