https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90411.Captain_Alatriste
You're in Madrid. But the adventure here seems sorta like a half adventure. Indeed, has a minor climax & is like very sustained though brisk foreplay. It's too short to be miraculous, though it will inevitably leave you wanting more. (So... great literary hook!)
No sé si fue por mi condición de madrileño, o porque me gusta la historia, o porque fui afortunado y estudie en aquel Plan educativo que se llamaba EGB, con el que terminabas aprendiendo un montón de cosas (en este caso de nuestro Siglo de Oro), o porque me encanta cómo escribe Pérez Reverte, o porque una historia donde los secundarios son Quevedo o el conde-duque de Olivares recuerda a las novelas de aventuras de Alejandro Dumas, o porque la accion sucede por las calles que tan bien conozco...
No sé la razón, pero este es el único libro que me he leído dos veces.
La primera un año o dos después de que se publicara y la segunda tras ir al cine a ver su horrible versión cinematográica (que una serie posterior ha hecho buena).
Short and elegant : a worthy addition to the panoply of memorable swashbucklers and a promising start of a long historical epic.
The story alternates between first person narration by the young page Inigo Balboa and third person view.
I wish I was fluent in Spanish and could read this in the original , especially the poems.
Captain Diego Alatriste y Tenorio is set apart from the likes of D'Artagnan, Zorro or Pardaillan by the fact that he is a lot less talkative, has a passion for books and for the verses of Lope de Vega or Quevedo, doesn't claim the moral superiority of the pure knight on a white horse.
Published in 1996, this is the first of a series of novels by Pérez-Reverte, novels set in 17th century Spain and featuring the fictional Captain Diego Alatriste y Tenorio.
Finally, the ambush of two Englishmen by Alatriste and an Italian companion takes place, the instructions having been to kill the two.
This, of course, creates a dilemma: Alatriste is now with the two intended victims who inquire who he is and who set him upon them, and he is also aware that his companion will tell the true instigators that Alatriste has let the Englishmen live, putting Alatriste’s own life in danger.
Captain Alatriste, a romantic soldier of fortune of Hapsburg Spain, is the protagonist of this series by Perez-Revertez. Just his luck to get embroiled in a dynasty scheme. Reminds me of the Three Musketeers a bit. Also, truly book one of a series. This sets the stage
Swashbuckling. Seriously. That's all this book is about. If that's not enough of a point for you? Well. You just don't know how to have fun.
Разкошотия! Точно от глътка свежа приключенско-историческа проза, уловила духа на "Тримата мускетари", имах нужда след последните ми предимно фентъзийни забежки, и дон Артуро Перес-Реверте не ме разочарова. Дворцови интриги, звън на шпаги в ръцете на сурови мъже, за които честта е всичко... Без да се бавя подхващам следващата - зарибих се!

Um dos heróis mais populares e honrados de Espanha. O capitão Alatriste foi um antigo Soldado que combateu contra turcos e infiéis. Nunca foi capitão. Tal é sou uma alcunho devido aos seus gestos valorosos.Este livro narra o resgate do Príncipe Carlos Stuart e o pupilo de Alistrite Indigo
The story in this novel takes place in the 17th Century Spain during the reign of Philip IV, the golden age of Spanish power.
The story takes place at about the same time as Dumas' novel, but of course Alatriste is Spanish and the Dumas characters were French.
(The DVD is not yet released for North America.)The series of books started when the author, Pérez-Reverte, decided that there was a lack of history of the Spanish Golden Age in the school textbook of his teenaged daughter Carlota.
As usual, Perez-Reverte's writing style manages to mingle in an amazing amount of fascinating history within an otherwise simple plot.
The problem this time was too much history and exposition and too little actual plot.
He starts with the story, but then gets side-tracked to explain the history of Spain or the people in the story to set the scene for how they've all arrived at this point in the tale.
Then we're back to the story briefly, before we go forward in time a little to hear about what happens to the narrator or other characters later in their lives OR what happens to the culture of Spain itself.
Not a lot going on today I guess.Anyway, I have read and enjoyed several of Perez-Reverte's books and have been looking forward to this series.
Also, The profanity he uses throughout the book doesn't work to get you to believe in the characters...
I have read several of his other books and enjoyed them enough, so at least some of the blame goes on the translator (I just looked at three of his books here off the cuff and they all have different translators).
Another one I need to re-read sooner rather than later.
He knows too many poets, priests, and minor nobility to live an altogether safe life.
But there are sword-fights, moments of nobility, and a great deal of derring-do.
And poems.This is too short a book for as many lines of poetry are in it.
A good read, although it does drop into "too many historical details, yes yes, I know you did your research but wouldn't some plot be nice here?" mode from time to time.
Like, the end of the book is more poems.
But this is more of a novelette fluffed out by poetry--although I suspect the book was written because of the research in poetry, so maybe I shouldn't complain.
So I was searching around on you-tube for some good recreation footage of a performance in a corral de comedias, and stumbled across a 2006 film called Alatriste with a very charming scene set in such a theatre.
Except the insider's fact that the novel follows the plot conventions of a Siglo de Oro "capa y espada" (cape and sword) play, and contains various nice bits of period poetry by the likes of Lope and Calderon (and a few apparently by the author as well).
Nice swashbuckling entertainment, though not, I hear, as good as some of the author's earlier works that have nothing to do with Alatriste.
I've read two works by Arturo Perez-Reverte ("The Flanders Panel" and "The Fencing Master" and enjoyed both) and in fact the subject of "fencing", as related in "Monte Cristo/Alatriste" with duels, etc., led me directly to "Captain Alatriste." I believe this book is the first of at least five more in this series, and it serves a prologue to the rest of the story: here we have a bit of Alatriste's background, we have mysterious men in mask, we have political intrigue, we have questionable identities.
So, today, authors would give us a series of books: if Dumas were publishing today, he would no doubt have given us at lease five volumes of "The Count of Monte Cristo." Times change!

This wasn't bad. The problem is, once you've read the likes of Captain Blood other adventure tales pale in comparison.
Magnificent. Reminded me of the action movies that I grew up watching in the 1950's. Maybe something directed by Orson Welles, starring Errol Flynn, and presented in black-and-white without the distraction of profanity.
No conocía al personaje hasta que hace unos años salió la película, y a pesar de que tenía en la cabeza la imagen de Viggo Mortensen, al Diego Alatriste del libro lo imaginé bastante diferente y más jóven.Lo primero que pensé fue "¡qué español es todo!" y a partir de ahí muchas veces tuve que frenar porque en mi mente lo estaba leyendo con acento andaluz (a pesar de que esté ambientado en Madrid y que yo no sea española).El narrador es Íñigo, un muchachito de 13 años cuya madre enviudó a causa de la guerra y por no poder mantenerlo lo dio como escudero a Alatriste, quien había peleado junto a su marido y ahora tiene la dudosa profesión de mercenario.
And except for some of the poetry, I found the writing solid and beautiful, without the need to be overly literal that you see in some (poor) translations.
Here we see Buckingham visiting Spain under cloak of darkness, and Richelieu's gold hunting him and his companion.
The book is a love song to Spain, in its Golden Century.
The problem I had with this story is that our protagonist, our eponymous hero, Diego Alatriste, is more of a plot agent at the whims of history than a character with his own ambitions.
Debo reconocer que su forma de aproximarse al Madrid del antiguo régimen es bastante similar a la de los Tres Mosqueteros, pero queda muy lejos de la maestría y el enganche que Dumas logra.
No te dan ganas de seguir ahondando en los personajes y uno queda con una bonita imagen de la vida urbana, pero nada más.2.
Esa actitud de "encogerse de hombros", ser medio taciturno, reflexivo y tener escrúpulos me pareció un reflejo muy pobre de la figura trágica de Athos, quien por su origen e historia de vida, tiene razones de sobra para comportarse como lo hace.
I looked up Arturo Pérez-Reverte and became interested in the fact that he had decided to write the Captain Alatriste series because he was disgusted at the poor level of knowledge of Spanish History, especially of the "Golden Era" that Spanish youth had; it was his equivalent of Dumas (or Sienkiewicz...
Like Dumas and co, Perez-Reverte's story is based on historical facts that can be researched and validated separately.
Set in the 1620s, this historical novel centers on the titular soldier, a melancholy man wounded in Flanders and now haunting Madrid as a sword for hire.
This book is also at least as much about the Golden Age of Spain than about any one man: Francisco de Quevedo is Alatriste’s friend, and luminaries such as Lope de Vega and Diego Velasquez are mentioned frequently.
Perez-Reverte’s narrator (a youth named Inigo, Alatriste’s de facto ward) ruminates on the state of 17th century Spain with all its corruption and dangers, on the festivities and attitudes of the time, on courage and honor, on what sort of man lived by the sword in those times.

"Para que vean vuestras mercedes lo que son las cosas, y lo que somos España y los españoles, y cómo aquí se abusó siempre de nuestras buenas gentes, y lo fácil que es ganarlas por su impulso generoso, empujándonos al abismo por maldad o por incompetencia, cuando siempre merecimos mejor suerte." Una labor de documentación acerca del Siglo de Oro español indescriptible. Pérez-Reverte es un mago de las palabras.
Or Perez-Reverte's forte, the novel, where it feels like each word is necessary, each scene considered, each chapter necessary.
"Captain Alatriste" actually ties necessary loose ends in that it could stand alone as a novel.
The Captain Alatriste series takes place in the 1620s, 1623-1626 to be exact, so far.
There are seven novels written in the series as of 2011, with two more in the works.The series is narrated by Íñigo Balboa y Aguirre, the young Basque squire of Alatriste.
Diego Alatriste and Italian sword-for-hire Gualterio Malatesta are paid by two mysterious masked characters to kill a pair of unknown English visitors in Madrid.
No le doy las cinco estrellas porque el final es bastante abierto y la trama en si no es adictiva.
En términos generales me ha gustado bastante.
En base al libro he ido investigando sobre hechos y personajes que se narran en la novela y es bastante fiel a la realidad histórica en muchos aspectos.
En la narración se entrevé la opinión del escritor en algunos aspectos, incluso he podido leer frases completas que después he escuchado por su boca en alguna entrevista.Sin duda continuaré la saga, pues me parece un libro de referencia para transportarse al Madrid de los Austrias.
3.5 estrellas. No es mi tema pero estuvo entretenido.
4/5Sorprendentemente me re enganchó y me lo liquidé en un par de días. Me encantó la historia, muy bien ambientada y la forma en la que Íñigo narra los hechos me pareció muy divertida.
