https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626601.Pour_Your_Heart_Into_It
I wonder what's in the water in Seattle because that's where Amazon is also located!
If that stuff is what it takes, I have no business starting a business....I really enjoyed the beginning of this book, which was kind of a corporate adventure story about starting Starbucks from about three local stores and a mail-order catalog.
But by the last hundred pages or so, Starbucks is already ridiculously huge, so all there is to talk about is variations on the theme.
Worse, once they become a monolith, everybody stops rooting for them as the underdog and starts treating them like any other giant corporation.
Boo hoo, they're being treated like a huge and powerful corporation, when they're actually...
a huge and powerful corporation.
One of the greatest "business" biographies I have ever read! Liked it so much that I actually used it as a source in my book, Thrive: 30 Inspirational Rags-to-Riches Stories.
The passion Schultz and his team have for what they do radiates very clearly throughout the book particularly illuminating the soul of what can make any venture successful – “Pour Your Heart Into It.” In other words: Find your passion and give it your all."If you pour your heart into your work, or into any worthy enterprise, you can achieve dreams others may think impossible." ~ Howard SchultzThe insights in this book will help those who are building a business or simply pursuing a life's dream.
It’s very well written, in fact quite poetic at times.
It shares his struggles of having acquired and built Starbucks from the ground up while everyone else thought investing in a technology venture made more sense.
In fact now people, at least the ones I know, find Starbucks quite pretentious.
I wonder if Schultz knows that this is the upcoming perception at least in India.
Schultz, nevertheless, is very inspiring and this book is surely worth a read.
Must read book ;-) Есть на русском.
Pour Your Heart into It : How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time (1999), Howard SchultzAn absolutely amazing book and here's why.
Whether you like inspiring tales, historical stories, business how-to or lessons on leadership, this is your book.
Howard Schultz gives his firsthand account of realizing a vision and taking audacious leaps all the while exuding discipline and patience.
Obviously, this book will mean more to people familiar with Starbucks and having experience its rapid growth in years past.
Anyone with dreams of starting a business no matter what size will find this one of the most inspiring and educational biographies written.
I love coffee, can't start my morning without it.
I was a big fan of Starbucks as well up until they started to take over the world.
This book by founder Howard Schultz explains how Starbucks went from a specialty shop that only sold whole, roasted coffee beans to the drive thru coffee franchise we know today.
Very interesting and insightful read, good for anyone interested in business or who has a love for $6 coffees.
I read this book on a plane and had about 4 cups of coffee while reading it because I thought what could go better with this book than a nice cup of joe.
Before: Starbucks is just fancy, pricey coffee chain. There is nothing special about it whatsoever. Even coffee tastes meh!After: I fell in love with Starbucks! It's official. I come to love almost everything about this special company. Starbucks' management should be role model for every company. And I even started to enjoy cup of coffee while thinking about its story and amazing management styles."Success is best when shared."
Howard Shultz left his high paying job at Xerox and joined Starbucks, opened El Giornale, took over Starbucks, sought venture capitalists in the market, opended stores outside Seattle and then all over US, brought in professionals into the business while at the same time retaining two very important core values, "Employees" and "The taste of Coffee".Starbucks whole journey from humble beginings in a small Seattle Store to world leader in coffee is brought forth in this book.
The values for which the compnay stands for are mentioned several times throughout the book.

Có lần vì máu thể hiện tôi đã thử uống đậm đặc không đường không sữa - giọt cà phê thấm vị chua, đắng, mặn từ đầu lưỡi xuống cổ và khiến nhịp tim tăng cao đột ngột, một cảm giác rất nhớ đời nhưng mà thật tình là không dễ chịu.Lên Sài Gòn tôi không còn thói quen uống cafe nhiều nữa.
Cách pha cà phê của người Sài Gòn cũng khác với thói quen của tôi, một ly cà phê trong này quá nhiều đá, và giọt cà phê rất loãng, nó giống như một thứ gì đó đơn thuần là người ta đi qua cầm lấy rồi uống vội vàng bù giấc ngủ cho kịp giờ làm mà thôi.
Schultz’s second Starbucks book, “Onward” is very similar to this one in that it covers events and decisions made in the operation of Starbucks.
Many of these decisions are similar to many other companies in retail and other industries that are rapidly growing from a very small base, such as how to treat your employees, how to focus your growth, how to deal with that first expensive problem, how to get mentors and investors, how to hire beyond your current size, and more.
In comparison, “Onward” covered the second era of Schultz’s reign at Starbucks, when it was an older company.
This book provides a fascinating look not only at Schultz himself but the birth and growth of Starbucks as a company.
His description of his first visit to the Pike Place store and his first sip of Starbucks is guaranteed to make you want a cup of good dark roasted coffee no matter what time of day it is.
Just look at the chapter titles: people are not a line item, a hundred story building first needs a strong foundation, don't be threatened by people smarter than you.
Pour Your Heart Into It- Howard Schultz completely poured his heart into it.
It's a highly motivating book.
I admire his 4 principles of success.
"Don't be threatened by people smarter than you.
Compromise anything but your core values.
Seek to renew yourself even when you are hitting home runs.
And everything matters." Guess, this is common for all kind of business.
Happy to see he is so particular on " Values don't wither as sales grow".
This book proved "Anything is achievable if we have real passion and plan".
Overall, Good book.
Starbucks günümüzde her ne kadar popüler kültürün bir temsilcisi olarak konumlansa da aslında o bütün dünyada kahveyi bir kültür hâline getirmiş sıra dışı bir şirket. Sahip olduğu pazarlama stratejileri, müşteri ilişkileri, büyüme atılımlarını ilginç bulduğum için bu kitabı okumak istedim ve kitap boyunca kendimi bir serüvenin içerisinde buldum.Şirketin bu günlere gelene kadar geçirmiş olduğu zorlukları, kritik kararları, fark yaratan kampanyalarını ve kendilerinle özdeşleşen birçok inovasyonu Starbucks'ın 1987'den beri CEO'su olan Howard Schultz'un ağzından okuma fırsatı buluyorsunuz.
If you enjoyed Shoe Dog, Sam Walton: Made in America, Ali Baba, The Facebook Effect.... you ought to read this as well. Among the quote i like in the book is "success should not be measured in dollars. It is about how you conduct the journey, and how big your heart is at the end of it".
Всем у кого бизнес в сфере услуг надо прочитать книгу основателя Старбакс. Много деталей про корпоративную культуру, подход к обучению и мотивации сотрудников. Несмотря на то, что описываются 90-е годы, книга актуальна и полезна сейчас.
If, like me, you are a former Starbucks employee, you have a soft spot in your heart for Howard and everything that he says and does.
However, if you are not, remember that Howard always has rose-colored glasses on (that he knows are there) and floridly romanticizes everything around him, from his father's hardships to his company's success.
Much of the meteoric rise of Starbucks rested with the few good decisions Schultz made in the beginning, and the consistent, dogged leadership he's given the company since.
The book is about how Starbucks as it was by the year 2000 came to be.
As compelling a read it was, I have to conclude that the writing feels a bit biased.
I enjoyed learning how he built a company based on passion, trust and thirst for victory, but can't help but feel tgat the guy is religously proud of what he has done and that might have influenced his views while writing.As a follow up I would love to read about Starbucks beyond the year 2000 and see what happened to them then.Do not let my rant desuade you from reading this book.
An extraordinary effort to make real high-class coffee popular, a vigorous passion to educate the art of tasting coffee.
It's all about working from the heart of a dedicated business owner.
The book depicts a snapshot overview of many up-and-down years of growth of the giant Starbucks:+ Constantly innovating in various aspects (e.g. products, store design, stakeholder relationship development, business expansion).+ Flexibly & instantly reacts to market changes.+ Humans are kept at the center of the company's heart.As long as never compromising core value of the company (i.e. product quality & human).It proves that love & passion can conquer all things!
What an inspiration! I had a good timing reading it right before the start of my entrepreneurship program. So interesting to peek behind the curtain of this "faceless corporation" and to see the devotion and the passion of the people building it.
Tuy nhiên, càng về sau, từ sau khi Starbucks trở thành công ty đại chúng, mình bắt đầu chán vì những cấu tứ lặp đi lặp lại qua nhiều chương, vẫn cứ là giá trị cốt lõi, vẫn là những tài năng tụ họp từ các nơi.
Và mình đã bỏ cuộc khi chỉ còn 1/3.
Tuy vậy, cách viết thu hút, câu chuyện thật về một thương hiệu toàn cầu, một số bài học về quản trị là lý do mình cho điểm 3 dù vẫn còn dở dang.
I enjoyed understanding the values & motivations behind one of the worlds most recognizable brands. This book only goes up to the year 2000 and I would love to hear about the challenges Starbucks & CEO: Howard Schultz faced up until his resignation in 2016.
Inspiring !
It was good with a brief history of the beginnings of the company.
Bản in nhiều lỗi chính tả nên đọc hơi bực mình. Nhưng ý nghĩa của cuốn sách thì rất tuyệt vời.
The 1 hour Schultz interview on the How I Built This podcast communicated the evolution of Starbucks in a clearer, more interesting way.
This book was written almost 20 years ago, but still pretty up to date in all advices and entrepreneurship lessons. It tells all about the history of Starbucks that when the book was written had about 1000 stores and today has 27K. The best book I read this year so far.
This is my favorite book about entrpreneurship spirits. It teaches me the story of how one's passion and working hard pay off.
