https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428522.A_History_of_the_Crusades_Vol_III
His words, I felt, neatly summarized the third volume of his history.Dealing with the inevitable downfall of Outremer, it chronicles the bitter century that followed the fall of Jerusalem which started with the respiro granted by the third crusade and continued on to the slow disentegration into futile expeditions, in-fighting among the meager surviving coastal cities, the rise of powerful new enemies and ended with the complete obliteration of the remaining handful of colonies.
Overall, I LOVED Runciman's monumentous work on the Crusades which tried to cover as many points of view as possible and make sense of the whole two centuries worth of brutal violence and mayhem with a clear, unbiased and humanistic approach.
Although this was published in the 1950s the three volumes are still a very serviceable introduction to the Crusades.
Of course the infighting, greed, pride, ambition, stupidity (the usual suspects) combined with formidable external threats from the Muslim world helped to bring the whole thing down less than two centuries later.I think when I read another history of the Crusades I’d like more social, economic, cultural details than I got here, but this was still a very enjoyable and informative read.
The tragedy of this book is far more palpable than that in the other two, however: the sense throughout is very much of the folly and failures which led to the final downfall of the kingdom, and the stupidity which generation after generation showed when failing both the kingdom and relations between the two conflicted religions.
The only unique failing prevalent in this book is its final summation of the period: Runciman donates just a few pages to the legacy of the Crusades and their further-reaching impacts, which one imagines could easily be expanded almost indefinitely, across hundreds of areas.
This would shape the history of this region, particularly the Balkans in ways that would reverberate again and again in the centuries to follow even to this day.
About the best that can be said is that the early crusades may have bought the Empire another century of life than it otherwise may have had --- but even this is debatable, given subsequent events, given the damage that these encounters between Occidental and Oriental Christendom created.As with the previous two volumes, I strongly recommend this book to anyone seeking to learn more about the Crusades ---- absolutely one of the best resources to this end.
Decent book, though for the most part strictly narrative rather than thematic or analysis-based. Shows the tremendous degree of infighting on every "side" of conflicts in the Crusader World, be they "Muslim," "Crusader," "Italian," "Byzantine," or "Mongol."Most conflicts are, even if they seem ideological, quite fractal and based instead on combination of petty interests and relations.
A classic in history literature. Just as good as Sicilian Vespers.
-Erudición y entretenimiento no tienen que enfrentarse, al menos no necesariamente-. Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Desde la Primera Cruzada, con una mirada hacia atrás para entender el sustrato del Imperio Romano y su herencia, hasta la caída de San Juan de Acre, con una mirada hacia delante hasta Pio II para entender sus estertores, retrato pormenorizado y cronológico de los hechos, personajes y acontecimientos que construyeron el fenómeno conocido como Las Cruzadas.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
The most professional work I read so far on the unpeacable period of Outremer. A must read for the scholars of the Crusades.
great
Wonderful read. Not quite as enjoyable as the previous volume but no less important.
FS ed.
