https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107017.Batman
Great art work (it is Jim Lee come on) great story, and plenty of guest stars.
Right from the first page, my first thought is this is the way Batman is supposed to be.
However where Bane was a imposing monster of muscle, the mistry of Hush is he seem to be a step ahead of Batman, who is usually 3 steps ahead of everyone else.Then there are major ramifications in Bruce's personal life as well.
A moment with Catwoman and old friends coming back into his life.
There is plenty of action and surprises right to the last page.
Introduction:  I have been reading many “Batman” comics for awhile now and after searching for some really good “Batman” stories that were recommended to me by other fellow comic book readers, I keep hearing good things about “Batman: Hush” and I finally picked it up! “Batman: Hush Volume One” is apart of an alternative universe in DC Comics called “Elsewhere,” like where “Batman: The Dark Knight Returns” also came from and I have to admit, I really enjoyed this volume! What is this story about
Jeph Loeb’s writing for the “Batman” series just continues to amaze me as the stories are fantastic and the characters are extremely well-written!
I was practically trying to figure out the mystery of this criminal plan throughout the entire volume as it was cleverly woven into the lives all of the characters involved especially Batman, Catwoman and Poison Ivy. The storyline was clearly intense and dramatic and I was practically sitting in the edge of my seat trying to see the true motive of Poison Ivy’s plans and how it would affect Batman.Jim Lee’s artwork: After seeing Jim Lee’s artwork in the “X-Men” comics, I was interested in seeing more of his work!
He can handle them, he has done in the past, but what he wasn’t counting on was them manipulating Superman into fighting him.This is no Batman v Superman.
This just had far too many characters; it was like the writers were just shoving as many DC villains as possible into the story.
I’m hoping the second volume of this is much better.
Hopefully, it will focus on the characters it concluded with.
The Bat has even more reason to be pissed off come the ending, and his singular perusal of this mysterious enemy will hopefully finish with a worthy final confrontation.
In this tale Batman suffers a grievous injury that takes him out of Gotham and into Superman's territory where he touches base with an old childhood friend and deals with several major villains of his past.
I like how Wayne's character was established.
That isn't something done very well in a lot of the other Batman graphic novels.
There's an obvious shades of gray as to how matters are resolved a la The Batman Way or The Superman Way. Hardcore critics will take issue with how Batman was injured and how Godlike the men and women look but isn't this a superhero graphic novel?
So Wikipedia tells me that most of the Batman comics I like are what DC calls "Elsewhere" comics, meaning they take place outside of the regular continuity of the DC universe, thus allowing for greater freedom in story telling.
But this book is part of the regular DC continuity and it turns out that this is the real Bizarro World, because like a fundamentalist reading the Bible, every word in the text has to be taken as fact, despite having been written by many different men, over the course of many years.
Oh this was really good. I love Batman and I've heard that the Hush arc is a classic that I have to read, and so far I'm really enjoying it. So far my one complaint (?), more of just a request really, is where are my Robin's ?? Dick, Jason, or Tim, anyone really, I'm surprised Nightwing hasn't come in yet, Huntress even made an appearance. Anyway, onto volume two, which I'm really excited about because I believe there's an appearance by one of my fave ladies, miss Harley Quinn!
I'm not really sure why this story arc was so popular - I think it was mostly due to Jim Lee being the artist. It's an okay Batman story and does further the larger arcs in his life a bit, but it's not exactly worth the hype in my opinion. The major plot points turn on several unrealistic "surprise!" gimmicks; in that respect it's more of a somewhat lame attempt at a big shake-up in the batverse thriller than a solid or intriguing detective story.
El Batman detective, el más calculador, se enfrenta al secuestro de un niño que termina siendo mucho más que eso, sumando a la trama cada vez más compleja a medida que avanza, con villanos y héroes controlados por Poison Ivy sin ser en apariencia ni ella misma la cabeza de tal complot. Los dibujos de Jim Lee pasan de geniales a horribles sin escalas. Me arrepiento haberlo comprado traducido pero es que salieron muy baratos estos dos primeros tomos.
But now after I calm down a little, I can see although Batman's action scenes and his nightly adventures are as effectively written as usual, the villains as awesome as always and the artwork is purely superb, still the storyline and the main villain Hush do leave me a bit underwhelmed.
I know, Hush does a lot better in vol.
Though Luthor is a villain but I guess..........even a President Luthor for USA is a bit better than what USA is currently having...
A very good Batman read. The story is solid and there’s plenty of guest appearances from famous Batman characters, villains, and DC superheroes. The artwork is terrific and the writing is nicely done also. The book is filled with plenty of intense action sequences that are a treat to read. The tone is gritty, with a no fucking around type of Batman and I really liked it.
Graphic Novel.
This is exactly the kind of Batman story I like, Batman surrounded by his friends and enemies, chasing after Catwoman, being teased by Nightwing, secretly conspiring with Robin, hanging out with Superman, bizarrely annoying Lex Luthor.
The big reveal of the so-called criminal mastermind was from roving, roving left field while at the same time totally flat, but that's okay, I had fun watching Batman get frazzled and scruffy, and the artwork was fantastic, the dark muscular Gotham, the bright and sunny Metropolis, the faded watercolors of Bruce's memories.
I didn't even laugh at Batman's big frilly cape.
Okay, I did.
I've wanted to read this story for the longest time and I was nervous I'd be disappointed. I WAS NOT DISAPPOINTED! This is how you write Batman. It's fast paced, it's exciting and the bad guys and cameos keep coming and are done so well. The artwork, I love the artwork it is just so beautiful. Jim Lee can just draw! I love the story an the ending...the ending! I feel like I'm just gushing but that's just how much I enjoyed this book.
Good stuff! Hush has managed to renew my interest in Batman.
Leído de la edición en revistas de Sticker Design entre números prestados y otros que conseguí de saldo. Por cierto, si alguien me quiere revender el #1, bienvenido sea. El dibujo es muy bonito y todo lo que quieras y la historia se deja leer, pero peca de lo mismo que pecan casi todos los laburos de Jeph Loeb: es extremadamente infantil, tontoide y está mal ejecutado. Entiendo que en su momento haya vendido bien pero no que al día de hoy se lo siga citando como un clásico o como uno de los imprescindibles de Batman.

The artwork elevates an otherwise simplistic story. It's like a free-for-all DC Royal Rumble with contrived surprises in the form of DC character appearances, both heroes and villains. It doesn't take advantage of the great build up and it just becomes one messy confrontation without real logical reason. But I do like the way they make Batman here so vulnerable, with real emotions and all.Despite the shortcomings, Batman: Hush Vol. 1 is still an entertaining Batman read.
Wow. Fantastic work by Jeph Loeb here. It makes use of nearly every major character, and when a writer can do that and it makes sense without seeming gimmicky, it's rare. Loeb did that in 'Dark Victory' as well. Batman needs to find out who this new force is, or if it's one of the old gang up to new tricks, and he has help in somewhat unexpected places. Essential reading.
Perfection!
A lot of good fights between Catwoman and Poison ivy when they were fighting Batman was fighting croc because croc wanted to destroy Gotham City.
Then Catwoman did found out what was happening and did everything in here power to stop it then batman took down croc and took out the poison that poison ivy put in superman and all three of them wanted to take her down.
Then they switch it around so poison ivy thinks that superman was still under her spell and they tricked her into thinking batman was dead and as they did that they knocked her out and locked her in a cell where she could not escape.
Oh, I like this one a lot.I like the story - Batman crashing mid flight down into Crime Alley and being badly hurt - and the artwork ist great too (even tough, at the beginning Batman is a bit too brawny for me.I loved the trip to Metropolis and meeting Lois & Clark.I loved to see how Oracle & Alfred care for a hurt Batman and organize a cover for Bruce.And, I loved the mystery of Poison Ivy and Killer Croc working outside their usual patterns.
Fucking fantastic.
Títo noví Batmani (2001) majú niečo do seba! Tá kresba je úžasná, veľmi prepracovaná a emotívna. A dej je tiež v pohode, nie predvídateľný. Nemá niekto dvojku?
Una lectura emocionante y ligera que tiene un dibujo excelente en todos los aspectos.
"From Hell" raised my interest in graphic novels, "Batman: Hush, Vol.1" made me a fan of them.
It was really cool to see all of Batman's enemies come together in one ginormous plot to attempt to take him down.
With all the enemies coming together it made the story very unpredictable and kept me guessing about who "Hush" really was.
I learned from Loeb how to make a comic book feel like a real novel.
I also learned how important artwork can be to a story and how it really contributes to the feel of it.
The artwork, as well as the story, was excellent, I've always loved the relationship between Batman and Catwoman, and Jeph Loeb also likes to toy with Poison Ivy's powers of persuasion in unique ways.
Truly, Jeph Loeb is a master of the Batman graphic novel, I can't say enough about his excellence.At the same time, I wanted a bit more of Hush, rather than a shadowy guy just rubbing his hands together and twirling his mustache (which he must have under his bandages).
I'm sure he'll be coming in more later, but I just feel like he should have been more directly involved, much like Holiday or The Hangman.
Mükemmel ötesi bir çizgi roman. Hiçbir kusuru yok. Okuduklarımın en iyisi diyebilirim bile (Özür dilerim Killing Joke) Harika bir Batman vs Superman gördüm. Merak unsuru zerre eksik olmadı. Saatlerce konuşabilirim ama vol.2 için sabırsızlanıyorum ^_^ "Suçlular tabiatları gereği korkak ve batıl inançlıdır. Kalplerine korku salmak için bir yarasa, gecenin canavarı oldum. Ama böyle yaparak tüm canavarlar gibi mi oldum?""Rakibini yenmek istiyorsan Bruce, onun gibi düşünmelisin.""Clark isteseydi süper hızını kullanır ve beni betona gömerdi. Düşündüğünü biliyorum ama Kriptonit'ten bile büyük bir zaafı var. Derinlerde bir yerde Clark iyi biri...ama ben değilim."
Loved the art in here, and the story was solidly entertaining.
More Catwoman, who is always a blast for me--I enjoy her moral ambiguity and almost impish personality.This touches on the reasons why I find Batman such an appealing character...and Superman not.
Batman's got some real depth to him, and is willing to get down and dirty to do what's right in the end, plus seeing him take on a super-powered alien with effectively toys and gadgets is pretty damned awesome.
Plus, this brings in some vulnerability for Batman.The Superdog showing up at the end was a bit weird, but all-in-all a solid read.
Every generation, we have a iconic Batman artist: Bob Kane ('39), Neal Adams ('68), Marshall Rogers ('77), Frank Miller ('86), Bruce Timm ('92), and now Jim Lee ('03). This is a nice "reintroduction" to the Batman we need. Jim helped relaunch a somewhat dopey X-men franchise for Marvel in '91 into something more respectable, and does the same for DC here. (Why Batman artists feel the need to constantly tie Superman into their stories baffles me, but at least this one keeps it to a minimum.)
Batman: Hush was simply phenomenal. The story is deep and satisfying and the artwork jumps off the page. It features the usual cast of Batman villains -- Killer Croc, Poison Ivy, The Joker and Harley Quinn, Two-Face, Raz Ah Guhl, The Riddler, and Clayface -- and introduces a new villain, Hush. It also delves into an edgy romance between Batman and Catwoman.Hush made it very clear to me that Jeph Loeb is my favorite Batman author. This graphic novel is a must read for any Batman fan.
Hush, Vol. 1 is a solid outing by Jeph Loeb, and does a decent job of mixing the gritty realism often found in good Batman stories with the whimsical, polished fancy of many DC comics. The story isn't as focused on Batman's persona as is befitting the best stories about the caped crusader (really, did Superman have to make an appearance?), and it's very, very obvious from the very beginning who Hush is, but this is an enjoyable read.
