https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16115612-and-the-mountains-echoed
But Hosseini tried something different with "And The Mountains Echoed" and that was incorporating a slew of different characters as opposed to just two, like he did in his last two books, and I don't know if it worked out too well.
I feel like the author could have dedicated more pages developing and telling the story of the characters we already got to know and love in the beginning, rather than introducing new, unnecessary ones halfway through the book.
This book is by Khaled Hosseini.
I knew it would be wonderful.I have to admit that the problem I ran into was that I was comparing it to his previous two books too often.
So, I tried to view this as its own book (which it most certainly is) and forget I had ever read the other two and that this was the first time I was experiencing Hosseini.
The story comes full circle, but this is Mr. Khaled Hosseini, so I didn't expect a full blown happy ending.
A new book by Khaled Hosseini?
Why do people rate books before reading them?
This skews the ratings and I wish people wouldn't do so...This was my most anticipated book of all time.
I couldn't wait to read and and naturally was a bit let down.
My least favorite of his three.I found the voice in some of the chapters a bit awkward.
The characters were interesting and well developed for the most part.
I'm glad I read this but won't anticipate the next book nearly as much although I will definitely read the next one hoping to experience something powerful.
Here's something you should know about Khaled Hosseini: All his stories have more or less, the same ingredients.It always starts with Afghanistan in its pre-war days.
And when it's all over, I clutch the book to my chest and weep like a child.Because formula or no formula, Khaled Hosseini just knows how to tell a story.
It's like an art he's mastered - and no matter how many times he does it, the impact of it doesn't seem to fade.And the Mountains Echoed is an ode to siblinghood and all the joys and heartbreaks that come with it - the anguish of separation, the guilt of envy, the comfort of companionship, the burden of responsibility.
Unlike his previous books, Hosseini adopts a short-story approach for this one.
The tale of how my father lost his sister was as familiar to me as the stories my mother had told me of the Prophet, tales I would learn again later when my parents would enroll me in Sunday school at a mosque in Hayward. Still, despite the familiarity, each night I asked to hear Pari’s story again, caught in the pull of its gravity. Maybe it was simply because we shared a name. Maybe that was why I sensed a connection between us, dim, enfolded in mystery, real nonetheless. But it was more than
The tale of how my father lost his sister was as familiar to me as the stories my mother had told me of the Prophet, tales I would learn again later when my parents would enroll me in Sunday school at a mosque in Hayward.
In order to save the rest of his family and the town, a father sacrifices his favorite child to the monster.
My new novel is a multi-generational family story as well, this time revolving around brothers and sisters, and the ways in which they love, wound, betray, honor, and sacrifice for each other.There are sibling issues galore here.
Every so often a book comes around that rocks you to your core.
The characters are your friends and you realize you should probably call them because you haven't heard from them in awhile and you wonder what is going on in their lives.
Then you remember that they aren't real and that seems impossible because they had a whole life that you were living for as long as you could hold off racing to the end of the book to find out what happened.
As a reader I wait for books like this to come out.
Blown like leaves in the wind… ‘A story is like a moving train: no matter where you hop onboard, you are bound to reach your destination sooner or later.’Within the first few pages of this book, the reader knows s/he’s in the hands of a master storyteller. In a village in rural Afghanistan, mid 1940s, a father tells a folk tale to his two young children. On the next day, they will travel to Kabul and start a chain of events that will take the reader on a journey across the world and through the
This made the book feel in some ways like a collection of short stories rather than a novel, but Hosseini brings us round in a perfect circle and the last few chapters bring all these disparate episodes into one immensely moving whole.The beauty of the writing is only matched by the humanity of the characters.
Although much of the book takes place in Europe and America, Afghanistan remains at the heart of it because it remains in the hearts of the characters, even though they may have become part of the war- and poverty-driven diaspora.A beautiful and very moving book that brought me to tears on several occasions, this isn’t fundamentally about politics or war; it is about the unforgettable people who populate its pages – about humanity.
I wanted the richness of the culture, I wanted to immerse myself in the feelings and experiences of the people who live a life so totally different from anything I've experienced.
All the characters got old too quickly.Perhaps because I had read his other 2 books and loved them so much, I was expecting something more similar to those.
I wanted the entire story to be about Pari and Abdullah and their families, to me they ARE the story, way too much time was spent with what I considered unimportant characters and their lives.
2.5 StarsOh that felt like blasphemy to type, but I’ve gotta be honest here. I loved The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid Suns, but Hosseini just missed the mark with this one.The story begins with a father telling his children a fable of an evil div (monster) who roamed various villages and would choose a home at random. Said home would have to sacrifice one of their children, or the div would kill as many as he pleased. The father in the story is beside himself with the idea of offering on
2.5 StarsOh that felt like blasphemy to type, but I’ve gotta be honest here.
I loved The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid Suns, but Hosseini just missed the mark with this one.The story begins with a father telling his children a fable of an evil div (monster) who roamed various villages and would choose a home at random.
Said home would have to sacrifice one of their children, or the div would kill as many as he pleased.
The father in the story is beside himself with the idea of offering one of his children to be slaughtered.
And The Mountains Echoed (ATME) is a brilliant stand-alone book, however, it's not up to the mark that Khaled Hosseini set for himself with his earlier two fantastic novels.
Though Mr. Hosseini deserves a pat on the back for trying out something different this time and not sticking to a tried and tested formula by going beyond a two-person narration as in A Thousand Splendid Suns (ATSS), but this time it just somehow looks rusty in places.
Along with that, ATME doesn't move you as much as the first two books did.
عن الحق والباطل .ثمة حقلفيه سألتقيك-جلال الدين الرومي يمكنني القول ان هذا الكتاب يختلف عن أسلوب الحسيني في عداء الطائرة الورقية ويمكنني القول انني افضل اسلوبه في عداء الطائرة الورقية على ورددت الجبال الصدى ,اختار الحسيني تجنب التركيز على أي شخصية بعينها.
بني الكتاب على أساس العلاقة بين "عبد الله" ذي الأعوام العشرة وشقيقته "باري" ذات الأعوام الثلاثة والقرار الذي اتخذه والدهما وفرقهما عن بعض ، هذا هو الحدث الذي يربط القصص المختلفة معاً.
A pebble thrown in a pool of water creates ripples; never just one, but countless of them.
The ripples were so vast it looked almost impossible to trace back to the central plop that the pebble created; but secrets are meant to be revealed, truths are meant to be uncovered.
The story played out through many decades in at least five countries among a myriad of characters, and yet not once did I feel lost or confused while reading it.
I feel for Abdullah and Pari, and I am glad that somehow there was redemption for them at the end, even if one can say that it was not too complete because of Abdullah’s condition.
You know how you hate when a good book ends?
You know you have to keep reading, reading, reading because you just can't stop and yet you are ever so mad when the book does just that?
Mr Hosseini has written a brilliant novel which is about family, its importance, its closeness even though one is continents away, and its ability to love through the years and separation.
He speaks so well of people, making the reader get to know his characters on so many levels.
One terrific novel. Great to know: the page-turning literary novel is alive & well in the 2010's!The intersecting stories are all pearls of a deep maudlin color mauve. Blue, frozen stories which, because of their humanity, resound like the echoes in mountains. (An interesting motif regarding the immobility of singular fates, &/or the full circle reconciliation with the past.)Wholeheartedly recommended to me by my pal Segen, & I in turn also wanna do the same.
OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! OMG..! Oh-MY-GOD..! (that pretty much Explains my reaction after seeing that a new book by Khaled Hosseini Is coming..!)....................................................................................Seeing this review and 66 likes makes me smile..After all the excitements and waiting, I practically ruined this book by trying to read it when I was not fit for reading. OH well, I can add another thing to my ever growing long list of regrets and things that I could have done "not Wrong'.Review to come..! This book deserves some words from me.
And The Mountains Echoed, Khaled HosseiniAnd the Mountains Echoed is the third novel by Afghan-American author Khaled Hosseini. Published in 2013. The book's foundation is built on the relationship between ten-year-old Abdullah and his three-year-old sister Pari and their father's decision to sell her to a childless couple in Kabul, an event that ties the various narratives together.عنوانها: و کوهها طنینانداز شدند؛ و کوه طنین انداخت؛ و کوهها طنین افکندند؛ و کوهها طنین انداختند؛ و کوهستان به طنین
سومین رمان نویسنده ی افغان-آمریکایی خالد حسینی ست که در سال 2013 میلادی توسط انتشارات ریورهد بوکز منتشر شد.
این کتاب از سبک حسینی در دو رمان نخستش، که تمرکز روی یک شخصیت بود، پا فراتر نهاده؛ و کتاب همانند یک مجموعه داستان نوشته شده است.
اساس داستان، براساس رابطه ی یک پسر ده ساله، به نام: عبدالله، و خواهر سه ساله‌ اش: پری؛ و تصمیم پدرشان مبنی به فروش آنها به زوجی بدون فرزند در کابل، و رخدادهایی است که روایت‌های مختلف را به هم گره می‌زند.
نویسنده در این کتاب هم، همان آشنایی خویش در دو رمان پیشین‌ اش: بادبادک‌باز، و یک‌هزار خورشیدرو؛ را پی می‌گیرد.
Each chapter is told from a different character's point of view, and each section builds on the events that have come before, and by the end we have covered more than 60 years of a family's story.
And as the story unfolds, we must ask if Pari was better off being adopted, or should she have stayed with her family in the village?A minor complaint of mine is I think Hosseini skimped on details of the wars in Afghanistan and on the clashes with the Taliban.
The book shifts to different locations around the world - France, Greece and the US.
Read the paper book!This book is about an Afghan family, starting at the end of the 40s and ending a decade into the 21st Century.
The beginning is also the best part of the book, because there in the beginning you most intimately rub shoulders with the main characters.
The central theme of the book IS based on the choices that are made by the first characters we meet.
The problem is that the book does not succeed in bringing all of these diverse stories to life.
His writing seems to wound me as I'm reading his books.
I remember when I read the Kite Runner I had to stop for a week or so to psyche myself up to finish it because it made me so sad.
(I think I must be getting soft in my old age.) His writing rides a raw edge between nostalgia and pain: you don't want bad things to happen to his characters because they are already deeply wounded by circumstance.
But then another part of me gets inspired to write when I read his work.
They are pummeled and worked over again and again, but at the same time they are also luminescent with authenticity.
I think the fact that I lived in Saudi Arabia for many years possibly helped in that I could relate to them the way I did.But this book, well I found it to be “long winded” and not to my satisfaction at all and consequently I did skim read to my shame.The first chapter was excellent about Baba Ayub and the div.
I will, of course, read his next book but I wonder whether in fact he “has been there, done Afghanistan” and needs to move on to fresh pastures?
I don’t know but nevertheless I look forward to reading his next book.
Abdullah 10, is very close to his little sister Pari 3, his poor family living inside a mud house, in Shadbagh , a small village of Afghanistan, days walk from Kabul the capital, but the boy's whole life is taking care of this precious girl child, washing her, keeping the sister clean, playing and giving the baby things, reciting poems, taking the tiny female on rambles, doesn't matter, just content to be together, they are like twins...His kind mother has died and the stepmother Parawana , is indifferent to their needs, besides she has a child of her own a male...
Speechless ✓Swollen eyes ✓Messed up mind ✓Bitter sweet feeling ✓Craving for more time to spend with the characters ✓Here is what I have been trying to do for the last one hour (before helplessly falling asleep)- Aim:  To write a review of the book. Result:  Several crumpled pages. Reason:  Mind full of emotions but out of words. Conclusion:  I will be left like this each and every time I read a book written by Khaled Hosseini.Hosseini is a 'magician' who captures your mind with the simple tricks
Speechless ✓Swollen eyes ✓Messed up mind ✓Bitter sweet feeling ✓Craving for more time to spend with the characters ✓Here is what I have been trying to do for the last one hour (before helplessly falling asleep)-
I will be left like this each and every time I read a book written by Khaled Hosseini.Hosseini is a 'magician' who captures your mind with the simple tricks of powerful words and leaves you weeping silently but gifts you with a beautiful yet sad feeling.
Bearing this in mind, and despite my delight at acquiring a pre-publication copy of And The Mountains Echoed, I was a little nervous that I may be a little disappointed.Khaled Hosseini's fans do have to wait a long time between books, its been five years since A Thousand Splendid Suns.
However, this really does not detract from the story, or from the wonderfully evocative writing.Once again, Khaled Hosseini has produced a story that will break hearts and leave his fans, new and old, gasping for more.
Iz ličnog iskustva, obično je druga knjiga slabija (tamo gde je prva ispala veliki hit, takav je slučaj bio sa Zafonom), međutim, Hoseinijeva druga knjiga je bila samo za mrvicu (gotovo neprimetnu prosečnom čitaocu) slabija od prve...
I nekako je sve likove započeo (prilično različite, iz raznih krajeva) i nekako kao da ni jedan nije dovršio valjano...
Ova me nekako ostavlja ravnodušnom, okej lepo što sam je pročitala ali i da nisam ne bi bila velika šteta...Srpsko izdanje nažalost ima dosta manjkavosti u prevodu (što se i dešava kad požurite da knjigu objavite kad i ceo svet a rukopis sređen za prevod ste kasno dobili od agenta, što je ovde verovatno bio slučaj)...
There are always a few things to keep in mind when delving into a Khaled Hosseini novel.
Second, Mr. Hosseini does not deal in neatly wrapped-up endings redolent of "Happily Ever After." His stories are more complicated than that; there's no instant gratification of happy, fulfilled characters riding off into the sunset, but the overall result is far more satisfying, and far more real.That being said, "And the Mountains Echoed" is positively beautiful.
It kept me up late, kept me from paying attention at work, and left me in a state that I am coming to associate with Mr. Hosseini's work: crying a little, smiling a little, and sorely tempted to simply flip back to the beginning of the book and start the entire experience over again.
إحدى أهم السمات التي يجب أن يتمتع بها الأديب عندما يقدم على كتابة رواية هي أن يمتلك قدرًا كافيًا من الشجاعة والمرونة ليحذف ما فاض عن مجرى العملية الابداعيةقد تكون هذه الخطوة مؤلمة بالنسبة للأديب الذي لا يرغب بالتضحية بما يعتقد أنه فكرة جميلة أو صورة رائعة أو رؤية مغايرة، لكنها بالنسبة للقارئ والناقد قد لا تنسجم مع العمل الفني، وتعد حشوًا لا طائل منه، وهنا بالضبط يغدو الحذف فعلاً تجميلياً راقياً .. وضروريًايبدو لي أن خالد حسيني وقع في هذا المأزق هنا، فرغم أن الرواية بدأت بشكل ممتاز وشهي، إلا أنني
‎إحدى أهم السمات التي يجب أن يتمتع بها الأديب عندما يقدم على كتابة رواية هي أن يمتلك قدرًا كافيًا من الشجاعة والمرونة ليحذف ما فاض ‎عن مجرى العملية الابداعية‎قد تكون هذه الخطوة مؤلمة بالنسبة للأديب الذي لا يرغب بالتضحية بما يعتقد أنه فكرة جميلة أو صورة رائعة أو رؤية مغايرة، لكنها بالنسبة للقارئ والناقد قد لا تنسجم مع العمل الفني، وتعد حشوًا لا طائل منه، وهنا بالضبط يغدو الحذف فعلاً تجميلياً راقياً ..
إلى درجة أنني لم أشعر باللذة التي أشعر بها غالبًا عندما أصل إلى نهاية الرواية
Having been a fan of Khaled Hosseini's first two books--even before they were published--I am delighted to say that this book may be his best one yet! It's a heart-felt, multi-generational tale that combines many characters and storylines...each one more gut wrenching than the last. I read most of this book in a perpetual state of goosebumps, and the last 20 pages with tears streaming down my face.And the Mountains Echoed--far more complex and multi-layered than his prior two novels--proves that Hosseini is deserving of his many awards and accolades. He truly is a masterful storyteller.
The book starts off with this quote:  Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing, there is a field. I'll meet you there. - JELALUDDIN RUMI, 13th century. From Afghanistan to Paris, to the Greek Islands to America, this story of three children from one father (two different mothers), born in the small village of Shadbagh in Afghanistan, winds its way through love, loyalty, happiness, heartbreak, war, peace and basically a thousand tragedies per square mile. Abdullah, Pari and their stepbrother
However, as the story unfolded, spanning over several decades, as well as several generations, and more and more characters made their appearance in the book, the magic disappeared from the face of the prose.
حكواتي فطري، وبارع.. كالعادة.
Alright, time, fined me some free time to read this. Today, 17/5/2013. 3:22 pm/ 15:22 hrs. http://www.goodreads.com/user_status/...I shall read this wonder soon! ='D*****A week later...I have the book O_OHave them all:Will begin in a few minutes :D <3*****10th September, 2013... I'm done with this book. *review coming soon*
