https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39150304-saint-peter-s-fair
I am no fan of mysteries, be they cozy or not, but the characters in this series draw you in.
Oh, and thirdly, the description of medieval life is superb!Wow, a mystery novel series that I will be returning to.
I must thank both Gundula and Shomeret for guiding me toward the next choices!THIS IS IMPORTANT: I purchased from Audible the audiobook format of this book.
Audible has another audiobook (release date 070510).
I want people to know how wonderful they are.So, if you get this as an audiobook, buy the one that has release date 071510!
The trick will be not to read them too quickly!Brother Cadfael is a wonderful medieval sleuth—he’s participated in the Crusades, he’s had love affairs, he’s a man of the world, but he has chosen “retirement” in Shrewsbury Abbey.
Abbey politics also feature in these books and Cadfael is getting used to a new leader (and they seem to see eye to eye).People are people, regardless of time period.
A person who notices small details and can put them together quickly & accurately, he is an excellent forensic investigator before such a thing was considered.A joy to read this comfortable, entertaining series.
Možda bi trebalo da napravim Gudrids policu pod nazivom "za kišne dane uz ćebence i keks" i na nju poređam sve romane o bratu Kadfaelu kao 100% pouzdan lek protiv jesenjeg neraspoloženja. Dobro, i predvidljiv, ali u tome i jeste deo draži.
Dašak srednjovjekovne političke intrige, dašak romantike i rješenje niza ubojstava. sasvim dobro!
It's always a treat to spend time with Brother Cadfael and the monks of Shrewsbury Abbey. I have the entire series now and plan to go through it... slowly.
I liked this one a lot.
Though they have some merit, the latter turned the originals inside out.“It’s no blame to men if they try to put into their own artifacts all the colors and shapes God put into his.”Saint Peter's Fair is a murder mystery, but it is also an immersion in medieval culture and history, a reflection on the world and man’s place in it, and a romance.
Peters weaves all her threads into a fascinating tapestry simultaneously fun and informative.“Penitence is in the heart, not in the word spoken.”Earlier readings left me with the impression that Cadfael was a twentieth century man in monk’s robes, but he is thoroughly a reflection of his time, though he rises above the stereotypes.“What you see is only a broken part of a perfect whole.”A good story, well told.
This is one of the best. July-August 1139. Just before Empress Maud returns to England to wage civil war against King Stephen's supporters.
I'm really enjoying these mysteries and the time I get to spend enjoying England of that era (without the aromas).
In the book Cadfael and Berringer are fast friends, Brother Mark is here instead of Oswin and we get to see Aline again, now as Hugh's wife and expecting their first child.
I'm not sure why the screenwriter felt the need to create all the tension between Hugh and Cadfael in the television adaptation.
Again, I'm not much of a die-hard mystery buff but I enjoy these as they give me an opportunity to spend time in that era.
Irony takes a holiday. Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael novels successfully bring us into the 12th century in part by shedding our prevalent irony, retaining so many other human traits that we slip through time and hardly notice it. This makes for a refreshing and interesting journey. This is not to say that she creates "a more innocent time", such a time never existed. Her magic is to render a time in full that, through her choice of words and her well researched details, feels entirely different and yet negotiable by us modern visitors.
Was wavering between a 3 and 3.5 stars, but the last 3 chapters bumped it to 4 stars. Awesome ending!I am very taken with Peters' command of characterization. Also love the simple homilies Cadfael imparts. Just an all around pleasure to read these short(ish) whodunnits.
This, to my mind, is one of the best of the series.Ellis Peters, a pen-name, created Brother Cadfael, who after a life as a Crusader, has retired to a Benedictine abbey adjacent to Shrewsbury, a significant town on the Welsh border.
The new abbot gives Cadfael responsibility for protecting the abbey’s reputation by making inquiries into the death of the merchant and keeping him informed.
This gives him freedom to wander beyond the walls of the abbey while taking time, when possible, to keep his personal responsibilities as the abbey’s chief herbalist.
"Are you going to Scarborough FairParsley, sage, rosemary and thymeRemember me to one who lives thereShe once was a true love of mine."Well this is St. Peter's Fair and a sore spot between Shrewsbury and Abbey of St Peter and St Paul, regarding how the tolls are allocated during the fair.
The argument appears to create a small riot as the vendors arrive, which then leads to a body discovery.How we get there and how is pure fun.
I had a hint of a solution with one event and it bore fruit, but usually I am not so lucky.
Nevertheless, a cracking good read.Seriously, start this series right now.
A great time for buying, selling, carousing, with a side of political intrigue.The stage is set when Abbot Radulphus denies the request of the town worthies for a modest share of the Abbey's profits from the fair*.
One young man injured and a follow-on brawl gets the fair off to a rough start.When Thomas goes missing and is later found murdered, suspicion falls on young Phillip, the provost's son, who was injured by Thomas during the confrontation on the jetty.
Perhaps Thomas's lovely young niece Emma knows more than she's willing to tell...Cadfael gets involved because he's been assigned as interpreter to a Welsh merchant, who claims to know no English.
The Abbey and town of Shrewsbury are looking forward to the annual St Peter's Fair as a respite from the battles of the civil war.
Then a wealthy merchant - come to sell his goods at the fair - is found dead and it looks as though violence hasn't gone from the town at all.
I thought the plot was well constructed though I did work out who was at the back of the series of deaths though not why the murders were happening.If you enjoy historical crime novels then this series is definitely worth reading.
елліс пітерс – це ті самі затишні англійські детективи, де ніхто нікуди не поспішає й ніколи не бракує часу на горнятко чаю / меду, тільки відсунуті на 800 років у минуле й прикрашені відповідним антуражем: замість коктейльних сукенок – лляні сорочки, замість синьооких клерків – синьоокі ремісники, замість милого вікарія і його дружини – ціле бенедиктинське абатство. і, мабуть, із такою казковою атмосферою логічно, що історії весь час закінчуються шлюбами, після яких тільки й лишається, що пустити фінальні титри.
Thomas almost immediately becomes involved in a brawl involving some of the town's youths over what the latter see as injustice in the paying of rents and tolls to the abbey with nothing for the town to help repair the damage done in the siege of the previous year, when the civil war arrived at Shrewsbury.
But when other disturbing occurrences around Thomas of Bristol's goods and another murder occur, none of which can be laid at Phillip's hand, Brother Cadfael begins his own investigation.
Brother Caedfel is a little less omniscient and wise than usual--and more believable for all that.[return][return]Very entertaining read.
In this fourth Brother Cadfael story we find ourselves amid the color and chaos of a medieval fair that--no surprise!--has a dark underbelly of criminals and spies at work, so that there's no rest for Sheriff's Officer Hugh Beringar or Cadfael.Brother Cadfael (pronounced Cad-file) has definitely entered the ranks of great fiction detectives alongside Sherlock Holmes and Lord Peter Wimsey.
Ellis Peters actually lived in Shrewsbury, England, where Cadfael's monastery of St. Peter and Paul can still be visited.
You really do feel as though you are in that long-lost world lit only by fire, where it's quiet and green and life moves at a pace most people can be happy in.Cadfael is a suitably complex man.
He's lived a full life, now he wants to be quiet.
From Amazon.com customer reviewer Beverley Strong:St.Peter's fair is held annually on the section of land outside the monastery walls in Shrewsbury, but involves the monastery itself, with its guesthouses filled with the gentry and travelling merchants.
Cadfael is convinced that Emma knows more than she's admitting, but it's only when she is openly courted by a young nobleman, who would normally be considered too far above her in station, that her life is endangered.
It's another fascinating story of life and death in 12th century England, with the detective monk, Cadfael working his way methodiaclly through clues to a satisfactory solution.
3.5 stars - I originally read the Brother Cadfael mysteries during college breaks, and enjoyed them so much that historical mysteries became my favorite genre.
No spoilers, but even though I began to suspect the villain, the ending was very satisfying and he got his comeuppance, delivered at the hands of one of Peters’ wonderful young female characters.
A very satisfying mystery, overshadowed by the ongoing conflict between Empress Maud and King Stephen for the throne of England.
Once again, I am reminded that I still haven’t read my used copy of Penman’s “When Christ and His Saints Slept”, to get the full story on this conflict!
i liked this ..not for mystery per se, but the setting and the characters and the period beautifully done
The pleasant village of Shrewsbury, England in 1139 kept time by the Abbey bells calling the monks to prayer.
The village burghers usually got along reasonably well with the Abbey, except when the St. Peter's Fair arrived.
A complicated plot follows in which the intrepid monk Brother Cadfael, herbalist and worldly-wise amateur sleuth, gets drawn into solving three murders happening during the 3-day fair.
Cadfael's reasoning process and alliances with the village sheriff are a pleasure to follow, the characters well-developed and charming, the dialogue fittingly period-style.
I was aware of the Brother Cadfael mysteries for some time, and must say I'm very glad that I finally read one.
I am determined to read the Cadfael mysteries in order, as obviously characters appear and reappear, without a lot of (annoying) back story, and the history of the period, particularly the struggle for the English throne and its affects on the "little people" of the towns, is integral to the book.
So, it took me a little while to track down #4.I find these books restful and interesting - as being in the presence of warrior-turned-monk Cadfael is often balm for the troubled folks who find their way to his abbey and herbarium.
So I must save these books for when I want Cadfael's company, rather than when I'm looking for a good mystery to sink my teeth into.
After reading one of Ellis Peters Brother Cadfael mysteries, I wanted another. This one has to do with St. Peter's Fair, which is put on every year by the Abbey, and enriches the Abbey as well. Merchants from all over come to sell goods from all over, and the townspeople come to buy and make merry. One of the merchants is found stabbed, leaving his young beautiful niece, and Brother Cadfael and Hugh Beringer work to solve the murder and keep the beautiful maiden safe. More deaths ensue, but the puzzle is solved at the end.
I loved this one. So many vibrant characters to choose from, acting with their own purposes in a way I don't think has quite been explored until this book. I actually blooming cried at this one too!I think this is the last Cadfael in Kindle Unlimited so I may be forced to take a break until I order them from the library...
All the books in this series are lovely--but I especially loved this one!! There were some really beautiful passages about religion, prayer, and the consequences of choices--when it is hard to determine right and wrong, and which is the better good.
Wonderful.
Ellis Peter's prose is just so beautiful. The images that she paints has you feeling that you are there.
Brother Cadfael does it again in this medieval mystery set during the strife between Empress Maud and King Stephen of England. What starts as a simple murder turns into cloak and dagger story which could change the course of history during the twelfth century. As usual, Brother Cadfael comes to the rescue, using his many years of experience outside the Benedictine monastery to help solve the mystery. A well written book.
First the elders make embassy to the abbey Chapter, then the younger tradesmen try more direct contact with fair merchants.It's not merely because the townsfolk are badly met that the trouble begins.
And there are still discontents enough in the land that spies are not that much rarer than merchants at the Fair (there's more than a little overlap, indeed).Meantime, Brother Mark is beginning to get his sea legs at the abbey, and is able to achieve quite a lot for a cloister rat.
