https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122600.Iron_John
Having just pushed through the deep lakes of thought Bly makes us dwell in, and having exhausted a lot of energy traveling miles and miles of metaphor I feel short of power to describe this book.
And now further admitting my manhood is not at all comfortable with the idea of needing a "men's movement" and winces at the very thought.
humans love metaphors because most things that mean anything are not so tame as to fit into a single word.
And the metaphor is often the closest an author can get to the real thing in written form, and in many ways its the closest some of us can come to painful parts of ourselves.
Oh, man.
This sums up, metaphorically, my experience of the contents of the book.
A little bit hippie, a little bit new-age fetishist, a little bit ladies-man-of-the-1970's...and a little bit straightlaced and conservative underneath it all.
So, he's basically promoting the male version of the "bleeding warriors of peace" women who paint murals of pregnant goddesses growing out of trees.
I tried really hard to give this book a fair chance.
But I just can't tolerate sentences like "Men and women alike once called on men to pierce the dangerous places, carry handfuls of courage to the waterfalls, dust the tails of the wild boars".
"Dusting" the tails of pigs?
Bly frames Iron John as a book primarily for men ready to do this kind of “inner work;” men around the age of 35.
If you’re going to really change manhood, you have to reach out to young men, too.
A movement for 35 year old men has no future.
A transformative movement that is going to appeal to young men has to have balls.
Iron John contains some truth, and Bly is a natural storyteller, so the book is very well written in its own way.
But ultimately, Iron John offers no path to power for men.
A big "poem" on masculinity, every man should read this book.
In real life, however, the individuating man would be fifty by the end.Iron John, The Wild Man, is a symbol: not for the macho/alpha male we see in popular culture, but for that man in touch with the earth, grounded in his lower body, in touch with his instinct, with the uncanny impulses of the deep waters of the unconscious—spontaneous, vigorous, and alive.
In a word, he has a strong emotional body that can endure Life.All I can say, I love this book!
Μετά το πέρας της τρίτης ανάγνωσης οφείλω να ομολογήσω πως είναι ένα από τα πιο δυνατά αναγνώσματα που έχω διαβάσει. Παρατηρώ πως η επιρροή του είναι πολύ μεγάλη σε θέματα που μέχρι χθες δεν είχα προσεγγίσει με αυτή την πολύ βαθιά ματιά. Πρόκειται για μια ανθρωπολογική μελέτη επάνω στην αρχετυπική μορφή του άρρενος. Χρησιμοποιώντας το παραμύθι του Σιδηρόγιαννου ο συγγραφέας κάνει μια αποσυμβολοποίηση και αποκαλύπτει κρυμμένη γνώση που εμφορούνται τα παραμύθια χιλιάδες χρονια. Κάθε άνδρας (και όχι μόνο) οφείλει στον εαυτό του την ανάγνωση αυτού του βιβλίου. Είναι μια αποκάλυψη σίγουρα. Ότι και να πω είναι λίγο.
Despite the troubling lack of evidence or logic, and the suspicious repetition of the above three points with the dogmatic tone of "we all know that...[gender bias/phenomenon]" leading every chapter, I thought, this book might offer practical advice for Bly's so-called 'soft' males.----My disappointment:Maybe this book does, did or will help some men discover their identity, which is great, but the few glimmers I found in this I already think I understood by more transparent, recent sources (Freud/Jung/fiction to my own observations).
Third wave feminism began after the publishing of this book which I think in Western societies has radically changed the general consensus on, and therefore usefulness, of 'traditional gender roles'.
While I agree that this might be true, he just says it too many times for me to be able to stand reading the book without feeling like a useless piece of crap.
I handed it, unfinished, back to my boyfriend, apologized for not wanting to finish it and stated that I did understand him a little better, but I wasn't willing to buy into everything Bly is selling.
He believes too firmly in ONE thing for me to be able to agree with him.
In Iron John he brings both elements to bear in a way that will only truly be understood by men.That's right.
This book requires a man to truly understand it.
In fact there were very few men to whom I could be said to have had a close friendship let a lone a mentoring relationship.Along comes this book and it presents through beautiful and accessible imagery a book that is about me.
I've experienced the message it brings and it is sorely needed in our society by men who have lost touch and connection with what it means to be a man.
A book about perspectives on the "wildness" of men throughout history, with emphasis on the need for a return to the rites of passage laid out metaphorically in the "Iron John" tale as told by the Brothers Grimm, which likely dates back to ancient times.
I mean, they're very old, so they must have been better, right?After a few good introductory chapters the Freudian and Jungian nonsense begins, often signified by phrases like "clearly this means" in reference to the most nebulous concepts.
If someone dreams of swimming: "clearly this means his greatest wish is to return to the watery roots of the earliest organisms." Barf.
Nuggets of wisdom scattered amid the psychobabble.
Iron John is commonly regarded as one of the major men's books written over the past few decades.
It's an easy read that covers a lot of deep issues relating to masculinity.
First, I love the mythological approach Bly takes to masculinity.
Second, the book represented some unique takes on masculine initiation.
There's no part of the book where it feels like Bly is short shifting one issue and overemphasizing another.
Second, I come at men's issues from a mostly evangelical perspective, which Bly does not share.
As a result, I see Bly's work, while being very good and worthwhile, as ultimately falling short in several areas.
What misogynistic drivel.
"Real men" are dying off.
Shut the fuck up.
Hey boys (and yes I mean boys) and little girls who can't do things for yourself: Go live in a cave and draw on walls while your "aggressive and dangerous" man drags you by your hair and throws you on the bed because he doesn't respect you as a human being.
I'll stay in the 21st century with ACTUAL REAL men who aren't threatened by a changing world of female empowerment.
And for those of you who think that that somehow equals man hate, I feel sorry for you.
And obviously, with the Enlightenment and the dispatch of Kings, the male ego has no really earthly Father to gaze upon as a Spiritual Guide.Bly rightly points out that in aboriginal tribes such as Indian and Australian, male initiation still takes place for boys where today in postmodern Western society, the lack of men intervening in boys' lives makes the process much more drawn out, much more protracted and even postponed.
What happens in some aboriginal boys' lives at age thirteen only happens to young 'men' aged forty in Western society.Initiation, for me personally, occurred anonymously and in my late thirties, and lasted much too long.
Robert Bly discusses the importance of male initiation rituals on a male's psychological in theself-development in ancient societies.
When I first read that book I was thinking that modern men need a similar kind of system in order to harness the masculine power within in a constructive way.
Men and male development are more complicated issues than contemporary society is willing to recognize.
There is, as Robert Bly says and which I have noticed long before I even read this book, a subtle crisis in the modern world in regards to male mental health.
Obviously something must be done, and Robert Bly points the way.
A cross between Jungian psychology, Poetry, and Fairy Tales, this book neatly intersects many of my primary interests. Written by the poet Robert Bly, it's an odd journey through the archetypal psychic development of men in western culture, focusing on the uses of and need for initiation rites and spiritual life, and a Jungian interpretation of the fairy tale "Iron John". There are some remarkable insights here, though also some pretty specious claims.
This book is why I love Robert Bly. The modern man is lost, disheveled, and more broken everyday because there is no guidance to lead him into maturity, and through self-discovery. Utilizing the myth of Iron John, Robert Bly offers some answer to the wounds we receive in life, and how those too are means for us to grow well.
برای مردشدن، شروع خوبیه :)
There was a literal moment when my thinking shifted from hating my father to understanding how his life had broken him.
In understanding and forgiving him, I also can do so for myself, and some others.
I see how people get broken like bones, and heal with limps, and restrictions, and anger that they can not be who they wanted to be, and they might not realize it within themselves.
Arguably the most important book in my life.
Wish I had had it while he was still alive, but it was still important to the quality of the rest of my life.
I really don't like to give a book only three stars, especially when it's obvious the author worked so hard researching and writing.
It's very impressive.But, for some reason I can't explain, Bly's writing is difficult for me to understand.
That's one reason I gave it three stars.The other reason is I think some of his explanations and illustrations for situations in the story are really far-fetched.
I'm saddened to think of all we've lost as a species in that regard.So, I think it's a good book, and I recommend it to everyone; just be aware, you may find it difficult to understand and rather far-fetched at times.
میتوان گفت این کتاب به نوعی سفر خودشناسی برای مردان است و دانستن اطلاعات ارائه شده در آن برای خانمها هم مفید فایده است.
اتفاق جالبی که در حین خواندن کتاب برایم افتاد این بود که با توجه به اینکه نویسنده آن یک آقا بود و طبعا دید حاکم بر کتاب دید مردانه بود، به دنبال کتابی مشابه با دیدگاهی زنانه میگشتم و به جای کتاب با انیمیشن موآنا که یک سفر خودشناسی زنانه ست روبه رو شدم.
توصیه میکنم هم این کتاب خوانده شود و هم آن انیمیشن را ببینید.
Too mystical, too much reliance on shaky metaphors and mythological reinterpretations of bullshit. Also, one gets the impression that Bly is absolutely in love with himself; he'll present poems written by himself as evidence for his point, which would be sketchy under the best circumstances, but when combined with terrible poetry, it becomes unforgivable. Save yourself some time and skip over this one.
Done in Robert's own special style. I could hear his voice as I read the book. An excellent book recommended for all guys and women if they want a glimpse into men's inner workings.
This is what happens when a poet and literary critic fancies themselves a scientist and starts trying to extrapolate from myths to the real world. You end up with a load of gibberish. I'm giving it two stars instead of one because I feel like his heart is in the right place, and that there is an actual issue here that needs solving. I think he just completely fails to address anything reasonable at all.
Tato kniha nepochybně předestřela spoustu podnětů k sebezpytu. Někdy jsem ale pochyboval, zda opravdu míří k objevení podstaty muže a mužství - nebo jestli jde jen o exkurzi do literární teorie.
Jungian analysis of manhood in Brothers Grimm's Iron John fairy tale. A bit elaborate but still interesting.
SO MUCH I disagree with, am concerned by, etc., but this book made me think more, take more notes, annotate harder, reach for other sources, consider my life more than any book I've read in I don't know how long. Dangerous, perhaps, but fascinating, and enlightening if read carefully, I think.
Wow. Ow.
Stupendous. Brilliant.Wonderful.Charming.Inspired. Magical. Loved it :-)
Essentially, Bly’s entire argument hinges upon this masculine/feminine polarity, and while at the very end he discusses how there are masculine elements in females and vice versa, any substantial demonstration of a spectrum between the heterosexually masculine/feminine identities seems to Bly to be the result of some sort of failure on the socialization of this individual, which is clearly problematic for readers not fitting into Bly’s implicit straight white male readership.
Nature made men's DNA at least 3% different from women and in that small difference there is a lot.
This book retells a fairy tale by the brothers Grimm and looks at the evolution of a man.
All this weaves together a compelling case for why men have, over the last 50 years especially, become nice guys and in the process lost the wild man, and the decisiveness and power that comes with that from nature.
The book is an insightful read for men and women alike, to better understand why men are the way we are and what we may be missing to get the full experience.
