https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674047.Along_Came_a_Dog
Reminiscent of books like Charlotte's Web and Beautiful Joe, Along Came A Dog is a powerful and moving rural-set story of friendship and protection.
We love it! The dog was our favorite character, and it was fun how the man talked to animals. The last chapter was the best! It was sad when the red hen was missing, but it was funny and sweet that he (view spoiler)[nailed her rubber flippers up above the barn door (hide spoiler)].
5 stars for Along Came a Dog!The big black dog needed a home.
The big black dog needed a purpose.
The big black dog needed a reason to exist.
The big black dog found a purpose.
The big black dog found a reason to exist.
The little red hen gave him a purpose and reason to stay on the farm where he was not wanted.
The dog protects her in the night because she can no longer get up the ramp into the high loft chicken house.
The farm where the dog has decided that he wants to have as his home is owned by the man.
It isn't often that you find novels about chickens, so of course I had to like this book :-D It seems like the author is quite familiar with the ways of poultry (as well as dogs) :-) It's simply but beautifully written, and the perspectives of the little hen and the dog are well described.
Kind of an odd premise, but enjoyable. Certainly DeJong ascribes human feelings to animals, which can be problematic, but it works here. I'm not sure about the accuracy of things like how animals interact or whether they learn in the ways described here. It's interesting to have a DeJong story set in America after reading several of his foreign ones.

Written in 1958, this Newberry honors book was a terrific find as I sorted and packed my kids' old bookshelves. A sweet story about a barnyard with chickens, hawks, and of course, the stray dog. But these aren't Disney animals. They act according to their natures and the author gives great insight here. Who doesn't love a book with a dog in it?! And the happy ending makes it all the better!
I feel sad about that dog along for need play or something but this not real story because dog is doing did around in farm or watch that I through smart or helper dog and they care about his dog when they just farmer and worry about his dog or animal.
Joe took the dog away twice, but the dog always found his way back to the farm.The White hens noticed that the little red hen was toeless and started attacking her.
She didn't want to go back to the barn because she laid an egg.Back in the barn, Joe found the dog and took him to town so that it wouldn't find its way back to the barn.
He went over to the swamp and found that the little red hen has five eggs in the nest, and they were hatching.
Newbery Honor: 1959The simple, everyday pleasures of farm life are told through the eyes of a kind man who loves each and every one of the animals on his property.
The old dog who keeps showing up is a reminder to him what the gentle, correographed sequence of life and death are all about.
But, when he discovers the true reason the dog shows up each and every time he though he got rid of him, the kind man realizes that the dog is invaluable and he deserves a home, too.
I read this book aloud to my children (ages 6, 4, 3 & 2), and I think it was a good read.
It wasn't my favorite type of story, and it felt like it dragged on in certain parts of the book.
I especially loved how it pointed out how misunderstandings can happen, and how the story painted the dog in a good light.
My kids are afraid of dogs as we've had a couple bad run-ins with dogs, and I think this story helped them see how some dogs are good.
I gotta say, this book was a bit boring most of the time. Also, I felt like the author would write the same sentence twice in a row but with words rearranged throughout the entire thing. It was a little annoying at times. However, the story was heartfelt and cute. My sons and I both through similar things about this book. We enjoyed the ending and the last chapter was the best one!! Is it really possible for a chicken to lose its toes in the manner she did in the beginning of this book? Poor thing.
I read this one aloud to my kids and really enjoyed it myself. It can prompt some good discussion concerning bullying and assuming the worst of people without taking the time to really figure things out. The story reminds the reader of the importance of asking questions of people who might be or think differently than you before you write them off as undesirable. This was a compelling story that had my children laughing at times and grinning over memories of our former chicken flock. :) We loved this book and would highly recommend it!
This was a great read aloud. I don't think many children would be able to read it themselves and stick with it. There are long descriptions of farm life and eggs, but the language is comforting to listen to just before bed or quiet rest time in the middle of the day. The story doesn't actually have much action to it, but the truths about humans and animals found in this story are little gems worth learning and living by.
I finished the book a couple days ago and loved it! It's very heart warming and wants me want to have a dog just like the one in the book. My favorite part is when the the dog saved the little red hen and her chicks from the hawk. If it weren't for him she would have been hawk food. Although there was some words I wasn't sure of, I still understood what was going on. I really recommend this book, I really enjoyed reading it.
This is truly one of the most boring books I’ve ever read in my life. We valiantly tried to do this as a family read-aloud. I forced the first 100 pages before allowing my kids to abandon it. My daughter, not usually sneaky, then guiltily admitted she has tried hiding it under the couch just so we wouldn’t have to read it for school time. I finished the last 70 pages on my own purely out of determination and wanting to mark it as read on my Goodreads list.
A sweet telling of a unique story. The animals' interactions and personalities are golden. And, the farmer's practicality gives him some funny insight into their simple lives. The plot meandered a little, and the book as a whole probably would have captured my interest more as a young child, but I still liked it. (And, of course, Maurice Sendak's illustrations are simple, but lovely in their expressiveness.)
The storyline of a little red hen and her dog protector is sweet in it's surprising mis-match of animal friends. I found some of the sentence structure grating throughout the book, and I'm not enough of a grammarian to know what to call the idiosyncrasies in structure. Still it was a sweet story of unlikely friendship and survival under difficult circumstances that I'm glad my children and I read together.
A cute little children's story about the loyalty of a dog and his deep desire to have a home, belong to someone, and to have a purpose. It's amazing how a little kindness and love and a sense of purpose motivated the farmer, Joe, the little red hen, and the dog into accomplishing their dreams. A lovely read!
A dog decides it’s his duty to protect a little red hen in the barnyard. This story did a great job of giving insight into the minds of the animal characters without anthropomorphizing them. It reminded me of The Underneath by Kathi Appelt. I went between 3 and 4 stars on this one. In the end, I wanted a bit more heart in the story.
I enjoyed this book but I'm not sure my kids would. It's the kind of book that needs the exact right reader to appreciate. It's sweet story of bonding and need and loyalty. I say read this instead of Where the Red Fern Grows, but I'm sure I'd be in the minority to say that.
Such a fun book! Our kids really loved it because we own chickens. Just understanding chicken behavior made this a much more dynamic read. A beautiful little story for all ages (my teen and tween loved it, too).
Cute story. I liked it...but didn't love it.
An interesting book about unlikely friendship and PS chickens are mean.
After the first chapter, I didn't expect to like this book. But I did and I cried a little at the (happy)end. Read aloud to the kids at bedtime.
What he doesn't know is that the dog has appointed himself the little red hen's protector and though he has little food in the barnyard and must hide from the man, he sticks around to protect the little red hen.
As spring turns to summer and threats increase, the little red hen tries to survive with the help of her dog.
This story is sort of the anti-Charlotte's Web. The animals are not given human characteristics, or even names.
All the animal violence really turned me off even though I know "survival of the fittest" rules the natural world.
This is a lovely story about a lonely dog, a brave little red hen, and a hired man trying to build out his own farm.
She not only survives - she defies all odds by thriving and hatching a secret clutch of five chicks.It's a story about the cruelty it's so easy to lapse into when you encounter someone different, when you're faced with something unfamiliar that frightens you into lashing out at it.
The hen - a little stupid but endlessly brave - takes her disability in stride and adapts quickly to running on her knucklebones and ruling over her dog protector.
In Along Came a Dog there was a farmer and he had a little red chicken.
The man thought the dog might eat the little chicken.
But the dog always found his way back to the barnyard every time the man drove him away.
When the dog came back he had to hide in his special hiding place and the little red chicken made a secret nest under the fallen willow near the swamp.
The man thought the little red hen was dead and by this time he thought the dog might have come back because he found a dead rooster.
Although written by a Newbery Medal winner, Along Came a Dog is one of the oddest children's books I've ever read.
If the Brothers Grimm wrote a fairy tale set in a barnyard, it might resemble Along Came a Dog. At its heart, it tells the story of a "friendship" between a little red hen and a big black dog, both of whom are ostracized on the farm where they live.
The story's first shock comes when the little red hen's frozen toes fall off, leaving her tottering on graphically described bare knucklebones.
The living things in this book are relentlessly vulnerable to pain and suffering.
There's nothing wrong with a fantasy novel, but DeJong's realistic take on animal kindness is a refreshing break from all the talking animal stories out there.
It's a well-written and moving story that manages to be a laid back read, but still deliver on the suspense as well.
There is action and suspense here; just not the kind that leaves one consoling a heartbroken second grader.
This provides kids the opportunity to rewrite portions of the story from a different perspective.
Also, the main concept of the story - a dog who befriends a little hen despite her physical deformity - is an excellent lesson on kindness.
