https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67891.The_Undiscovered_Self
Only individual awareness of both the conscious and unconscious aspects of the human psyche, Jung tells us, will allow the great work of human culture to continue and thrive.عنوانها: فرد در جامعه های امروزی؛ ضمیرِ پنهان (نَفْسِ نامَکشوف) پاسخگوی مسائلی‌که بحرانِ جهانِ معاصر پدید آورده است؛ نویسنده: کارل گوستاو یونگ؛ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه نوامبر سال 2005 معنوان: فرد در جامعه های امروزی؛ نویسنده: کارل گوستاو یونگ؛ مترجم: مهدی قائنی؛ در انتشارت دارالفکر، 1351؛عنوان: ضمیرِ پنهان (نَفْسِ نامَکشوف) پاسخگوی مسائلی‌که بحرانِ جهانِ معاصر پدید آورده است؛ نویسنده: کارل گوستاو یونگ؛ مترجم: ابوالقاسم اسماعیل پور؛ تهران، کاروان اندیشه سازان، 1383، در 100 ص، شابک: 9647033427؛ چاپ چهارم: تهران، کاروان، 1384؛ شابک: 9789647033428؛ چاپ پنجم و ششم 1385؛ چاپ هشتم 1389؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر قطره، چاپ یازدهم 1392؛ در 100 ص، شابک: 9786001191657؛ موضوع: فرد در جامعه امروزین - سده 20 مضمیر پنهان، برابرنهاد نفس؛ یا درون کشف ناشده ی هر انسان است.
I read this book and I gained a greater appreciation of my own nature.
To know one's self is the most important part of being human, because with self-knowledge comes compassion and integrity.
As an artist and an introvert attempting to find her place in a society that is loud and demands that "winners" vie for a turn in the spotlight, I have often felt at odds with the whole infrastructure of success.
At the time, when I read this book, I felt a little like Humpty Dumpty.
I felt like there must be something wrong —that I was broken or unable to find meaning.
The main problem is that we have attempted to suppress the unconscious completely, emphasizing only the conscious part of our nature; and this is a problem because the unconscious is the source of our individuality.Look again at the list of things Jung associates with the conscious mind: rationality, science, culture, and so on.
Jung has a less pessimistic view of our unconscious desires; he accepts that they can be violent, but he also sees them as a great source of strength and happiness.For my part, I think the psychological premise in both of these works is simplistic.
Everyone needs to read this book. In a society over-saturated with media and driven by mass consumerism, it is hard to figure out who you are as an individual. Jung argues that no society can thrive if individuals to not get to know themselves. Not in the conscious "I like to read" sense but in the unconscious sense.
Opening the book at random:Whereas the man of today can easily think about and understand all the "truths" dished out to him by the State, his understanding of religion is made considerably more difficult owing to the lack of explanations.You can thank R.F.C. Hull for that flat-footed translation -- or possibly the problem is the manuscript itself, by the aging Carl Jung.
Ten years after this book, the vast and monolithic state began to wither, replaced by niche-marketing, Hippies, libertarian Republicans and Jesus freaks.
Cases are made in favor of both freedom (delving into the strains of individuality posed by communism and socialism) and the soul (delving into the strains of individuality posed by over adhearance to most of society's organized religions), all through articulations centered around self knowledge.
While these actions are acted out on an individual level, they collectively have broad social ramifications (a more powerful state, an unthinking and overly dogmatized religion, etc) all of which further inhibit the individual, creating a snowball effect.
Jung argues that we must recognize and deal with the evils of our shadows through honest introspection, and through states of individual being that are not influenced by mass groups.
This is a summary of the human condition. Individuals, the dangers of capitalism and totalitarianism, and the role of personal beliefs and faith. All there.
یک کتاب سخت ترجمه شده. ولی از نظر تحلیلی و حرفایی که میزنه نسبتا جالب
For Jung, the "puzzle" that must be solved is to adapt instinctive, a priori archetypal forms "into ideas which are adequate to the challenges of the present." Psychic health appears to involve some sort of "immediate relation to God," a tapping into one's instinctive being, and expression of what lies inside rather than its suppression.
Jung weaves many separate ideas together in a long, tenuous, stream of consciousness sort of way and it's not particularly clear what we will find when we tap into our unconscious and how that will counter the ills of mass society.
Jung seems to have faith that when one looks inside, somehow love will find a way to conquer power, violence and terror.
Underwhelming. Maybe It was my high expectations for this book that I found it 'okay' with no brilliant insights.
Nevertheless, I would like to open up my thoughts about all the truths in this book, in brief.For all what we have, for all the advancements, for all the knowledge we gained, we are the victims of an illusionary world in which we constructed the tyrannical ideas that would, for now and ever, take full control of us depriving us of our basic human right: self-knowledgeAs populations grow, needs also increase.
Whether these demands are collective forces of the society or just contagious desires isn't really the case here; both ways lead to the tyranny that deprives the human being from self-discovery obscuring his desires and inclinations.
This book, contained in Volume 10 of The Collected Works of C.G. Jung, was one of the first I read, having found this cheap paperback in a used bookstore. A critique of mass culture, it may be read in reference both to Jung's early estimations of National Socialism in Germany--estimations he later qualified heavily--and to the Cold War which was at its height during the time of composition. Written for the general public (and published in The Atlantic), this essay is a light read and will not serve as an introduction to analytical psychology.
Here are a few passages that I liked from the book:  “If I want to understand an individual human being, I must lay aside all scientific knowledge of the average man and discard all theories in order to adopt a completely new and unprejudiced attitude.
I can only approach the task of understanding with a free and open mind, whereas knowledge of man, or insight into human character, presupposes all sorts of knowledge about mankind in general.” Pg. 18“If the psychologist happens to be a doctor who wants not only to classify his patient scientifically but also to understand him as a human being, he is threatened with conflict of duties between the two diametrically opposed and mutually exclusive attitudes of knowledge, on the one hand, and understanding, on the other.
The perfect has no need of the other, but weakness has.At the end happiness and serenity, of soul and meaningfulness of life – can be experienced only by the individual and not by a State, which, through a religious and spiritual understanding of the self (inner world) towards the world we live in and interact with our own consciousness (outer world).
Wow this was not at all what I expected. I thought it would be about breaking down the individual mind into ego, id ect. Instead for the most part it's about groups of people and what drives their actions. Written during the height of the cold war much of the text deals with the west and communism but in truth is just as relevant in the USA today with the deep divides of the alt right and the far left.
Осъзнаването на индивида според Юнг:Цялото ревю тук: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.com/2015/...
Тук философията и психологията се явяват адекватни помощници, извор на познание и разбиране кое е основополагащото в развитието на един индивид и мястото му в обществото.
Те са просто изследователи на все по-усложняващото се общество, в което се опитваме да живеем, и неизменни помощници, когато се търси определен подход, който да бъде от полза за всеки един от нас - като отделен индивид и като част от група индивиди.
Да не говорим за все още непознатото, което не по-малко съществува.“ (Продължава в блога: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.com/2015/...)

أضف الي ذلك ان الترجمة سيئة الي ابعد الحدود مما اضاع اي امكانية متاحة لسلاسة القراءة ...الكاتب كثيرا ما يربط الفكرة الدينية بالفكرة السلطوية في الحكومات وهو ربط اندثر منذ قرون ولكن يبدو ان الكاتب لازال فكره منحصر في تلك القرون؛ هذا لا يعيب الكتاب او الكاتب فكمحلل نفسي هو يري ان القضية مازالت مستمرة بصوراو باخري في الوعي واللاوعي الانساني...
في المجمل يمكن تلخيص الكتاب في عشرين صفحة علي الاقل ولكن تعمد الكاتب المط والاطالة ..
بالرغم من ذلك لا يخلو الكتاب من افكار قيمة وتحليل نفسي رائع للفردية البشرية وقيمتها في مقابل ضياعها في الوعي الجماعي التلقيني
if you take this book, and examine everything he says about the cold war, communism, and the iron curtain, then you will understand the threat we face as a western world against the current adversary of radical islam.
Simply one of the best books I have read. This book goes beyond psychology, it embraces much more than that
این کتاب یونگ واقعا جالب و متفاوتِ چون به عنوان یک روانشناس به بررسی رازهای سیاست و دولت پرداخته.یونگ معتقدِ خودشناسی پیش فرض تمام معرفت های بشری است. ولی آنچه که معمولا امروزه خودشناسی نام دارد بخش اعظمش به عوامل اجتماعی بستگی داره. و نظریه ها به خصوص نظریههای آماری کمکی به شناخت انسان نمیکند. علم به جای اینکه فرد را در نظر ما واقعی و ملموس جلوه دهد بیشتر نام سازمان ها و بیش از همه تصور انتزاعی دولت را به عنوان اصل واقعیت سیاسی در برار ما قرار میدهد.(فرد از تصمیم گیری اخلاقی محروم است و چگونه ز
علم به جای اینکه فرد را در نظر ما واقعی و ملموس جلوه دهد بیشتر نام سازمان ها و بیش از همه تصور انتزاعی دولت را به عنوان اصل واقعیت سیاسی در برار ما قرار می‌دهد.(فرد از تصمیم گیری اخلاقی محروم است و چگونه زیستنش دیگر دست خودش نیست و در عوض، مثل یک واحد ساختمانِ مناسب اسکان می یابد و خود را هم آهنگ با معیارهای موجود سرگرم می‌کند،معیارهای که موجبات تفریح و مسرت خاطر برای توده‌ها فراهم می‌کند.
این سیاست دولت است که تصمیم می‌گیرد چه چیزی باید آموخته و فراگرفته شود.)پس فرد به عنوان یک واحد اجتماعی، فردیت خود را از دست داده.
وأصبحت الدولة أيضا تعامل مواطنيها كالعبيد وتطالبهم بالإنصياع والولاء التام بصرف النظر عن أي شيء.وينتقد يونج أيضا العلم الحديث في محاولته لدراسة الإنسان بطريقة "علمية محايدة" : إذ يتحول الإنسان الفرد المتميز والذي لا يشبهه فرد آخر، يتحول إلى رقم ضمن إحصائية تضم مجموعات من البشر يتم الحكم عليها من خلال "المتوسط" وبذلك يتم إهمال كل الإختلافات الفردية بين البشر.
Jung's main focus is to warn us, that the key to a prosperous and happier future understanding our individual selves.
In order to resist the collective forces of society, we must understand ourselves, that is our unconscious mind or "The Undiscovered Self".
Rest of the book discusses other important topics.
The book according to me not a work a psychology but more of philosophical treatise.Jung is eloquent and very thoughtful when it comes to sociological and political discussions.
The book is a good read, but not very focused study of a single topic.
It discusses many important aspects of life.
من منا لم يتلق هذا التحذير؟السبب كما يفسره كارل يونغ، أنك بزياة وعيك ستتصارع ولا وعيك على السيطرة..
لماذا الصراع؟لأن الدين علمك أن الذاتية عيب، وأن يكون هواك الهك فهذهِ من الموبقات ولأن المجتمع لا يرغب بكَ مغرداً خارج السرب ولأن العلم يقول لكَ أن لا شيء مميز فيك وأنك مجرد رقم احصائي وأنك تتشابه بنفس التركيبة مع مليارات البشر في هذهِ الكرة دون فرق، والاسوء أنك تتشابه بجيناتك وغرائزك الاولية (الحفاظ على الذات والجنس) مع كل كائن آخر من جارك المقرف إلى دودة الأرض والشعب المرجانية!
My first foray into Carl Jung!
his notion of the "individual" seems so simplistic.
And while he has occasional flashes of insight, the notion of an "authentic" self that's oppressed by its surrounding society just seems like something you can't really substantiate.
It makes sense, with Jung being all "I don't believe God exists, I know God exists," that he would predicate his assumptions about human nature on there being an undying soul.
Consequently, unlike Nietzsche, his arguments about the individual seem like milquetoast Christian bullshit.
But, like Nietzsche, it's still an idea with really ugly political possibilities.
الفكرة الرئيسية التي يذكرها الكتاب مرارًا وتكرارًا هي خصائص الجماعات التنظيمية ( دولة ، حزب ، تنظيم .....
وعدم قدرة الفرد على التفكير والبوح بمكنونات نفسه ..
لا يملك إلا أن يقوم بوظيفة مكبر صوت للجماعة التي ينتمي إليها بغياب الوعي والفهم ميزة الجماعة منح الأمان لأفرادها وتنظيم الكتل البشرية وشيء من القوة قي تحقيق المطالب ..
لكنه إيمان أعمى بقائد قد لا يكون جديراً بالعمل من أجله أو طاعته أظن أنّ ثمة أفكار كثيرة ضاعت مني خلال القراءة بسبب الترجمة التي اقتصرت على نقل المفردات من لغة الكتاب إلى العربية دون الرجوع لمعاني الجمل المكتوبة بعد الترجمة ..
The Undiscovered Self is a fascinating, but more importantly, a compelling view of the individual, who, is constantly being overwhelmed by the collectives forces in society. To better understand ourselves, Jung states that the individual needs to better understand his own unconscious mind. Through the understanding of both our conscious and unconscious minds, we can better understand how to preserve the individual will from being consumed in extreme ideological collectivism. Jung writes with the compassionate prudence, and self-less courage, of a modern-day sage.
Living in modern society can be a bitch. Jung understands this perfectly, and proceeds to explain why: the State has replaced the monopoly of the Church on individuals' inner life; people see the psyche as a thing to be easily neglected; the State does not like individuals, only statistical units, etc. A good introduction to Jung's work. I'll probably follow it up with something on archetypes or the collective unconscious.
تنها یکی از مقالههای کتاب، با نام آن همآهنگ است. درونمایهی کتاب اجتماعی است و رویکرد غیرنظری مورد نظر نویسنده بوده.
تنها یکی از مقاله‌های کتاب، با نام آن هم‌آهنگ است. درون‌مایه‌ی کتاب اجتماعی است و روی‌کرد غیرنظری مورد نظر نویسنده بوده‌.
This brief book sees Jung advancing an individualistic and humanistic psychology of man which, jumps from anti-Soviet propaganda to being a mouthpiece for a kind of confused religious belief.
It only received two stars for the occasional nuggets of truth I can only credit his teacher with, and for the ability to summarise his pseudo-thought into a brief book, rather than a mindnumbing treatise, which would involve flogging oneself to read.Perhaps if he had listened to Freud's warning against Jung's pursuit of parapsychology and spiritual claptrap he would have gone down in history not as a debunked spouter of nonsense, but a serious humanistic psychologist.
