https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333867.The_Stars_My_Destination
It is rich in incident, ambitious in conception, terse and unemotional in style, and fiercely Romantic in theme.
And all the things that are good about this novel are embodied in its hero—Caliban and Hamlet, Satan and Samson, Cain and Prometheus combined—the brute-genius Gully Foyle.During a war between the Inner and the Outer Planets, Gully Foyle—unlettered, unskilled, amoral—is adrift upon the wreck of the space ship The Nomad, the sole survivor of an attack.
When the friendly ship Vorga knowingly passes him by, he becomes consumed by the desire for revenge.
One key had turned and made Gully Foyle into a remorseless machine for vengeance, another equally harsh set of trials then took this driven creature and made him into someone able to see the root of humanity’s need and try his best to give them the key to their own awakening.
When he finds himself caught in much larger schemes of powerful people his obsessive need for revenge puts him beyond any attempts to bribe or bully him.There’s a lot of interesting stuff here that gets into some really big trippy sci-fi concepts that seem way ahead of their time in many ways plus there’s a kind of Count of Monte Cristo style story embedded in it too.
It’s a bold and ambitious story that seems ahead of its time in many ways, and I’m glad that I took the opportunity to fill in a gap in my sci-fi reading.
I mean, am I crazy, or is this one of the most profound things ever written?"You pigs, you.
Got a genius in you and think crazies.
Like Dantes, Gully is a simple man awakened to all of his great potential by a fiery need for vengeance.
And when he begins to awaken, he wakes up completely.This book contains one of the most colorful, interesting casts of characters that I have ever come across.
The ending of this book makes me feel almost the same way – it’s just a little bit too “out there” for me to fully appreciate, but I still found it incredibly moving.
“Gully Foyle, that’s my name, me.”Alfred Bester has created in Gulliver Foyle one of Science Fiction’s great characters.
The protagonist of Bester’s 1956 novel The Stars My Destination is a brutish, driven by internal energies force of nature and provides the most memorable element of this archetypal SF story.That and jaunting.Bester describes a future society where personal teleportation – jaunting – has transformed human society in virtually every way, from economic to sociological to legal.
This anthropological paradigm shift of society is vaguely reminiscent of Poul Anderson’s 1954 novel Brainwave.Imaginative and surreal, this falls into the Philip K.
Dick sub-genre of weird SF.
¡WOW BOB WOW!  GULLY FOYLE IS FAST AND FURIOUS! A MADMAN OUT FOR VENGEANCE, LEFT FOR DEAD NOT ONCE - BUT TWICE! HE IS HUMAN JUGGERNAUT, HE IS FORCE MAJEURE, HE IS BOTH ROCK AND HARD PLACE! HE HURTLES THROUGH SPACE & TIME & MISADVENTURE, HE WEARS MANY FACES, A LOVER AND A RAPIST, THE MOST VIOLENT MAN IN THE ROOM, THE ANGRIEST BOY EVER, A HUMAN TIMEBOMB! HIS FACIAL TATTOOS:  A TIGER, A TIGER! BURNING BRIGHT!   THE ONLY GIRL FOR HIM - ANOTHER SOCIOPATH!THE ONLY DESTINATION FOR HIM: THE STA
¡WOW BOB WOW!
GULLY FOYLE IS FAST AND FURIOUS!
A MADMAN OUT FOR VENGEANCE, LEFT FOR DEAD NOT ONCE - BUT TWICE!
HE IS HUMAN JUGGERNAUT, HE IS FORCE MAJEURE, HE IS BOTH ROCK AND HARD PLACE!
HE HURTLES THROUGH SPACE & TIME & MISADVENTURE, HE WEARS MANY FACES, A LOVER AND A RAPIST, THE MOST VIOLENT MAN IN THE ROOM, THE ANGRIEST BOY EVER, A HUMAN TIMEBOMB!
HIS FACIAL TATTOOS:
A TIGER, A TIGER!
BURNING BRIGHT!
THE ONLY GIRL FOR HIM - ANOTHER SOCIOPATH!THE ONLY DESTINATION FOR HIM: THE STARS!
LITERALLY!THIS HOLY NEANDERTHAL IS HUMANITY'S FUTURE HOPE!a thrilling narrative.
a metaphysical and surprisingly hopeful ending.
Reading it a second time is like chumming up with a psychopath and learning that he's really the good guy because everyone else is just as crazy as him.And then, what else can we expect when practically everyone can Jaunte (teleport) practically anywhere they want?
It's the human mind and all their baser instincts let loose.Still a fantastic tale.
The emotions were the strongest part of the whole tale.
Oh, my lord, I can't believe how excited I am about this.It gets my heart pumping precisely eight times more than when I learned that Rama was in development.SQUEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE(Ok. I'm not a little girl.
You'll meet colourful (and some extravagantly colourless) characters on the way, death-head Dagenham being one of my personal favorites.
Why might you not like Gully Foyle, you ask?
Your guide will evolve, his instinct for survival will always be that split second quicker than whatever wants to end him.And as your guide grows stronger you might, despite a very shaky start, grow to like him.
Don't be surprised if you would see an ugly, tattooed face next to the encyclopedia entry of "character development".
It's Gully Foyle, the developing character extraordinaire.
Help, is all.", but as this cockroach grows stronger, he also grows wiser.
The cockroach will meet himself.
Guest appearance by Ivanka near the end.***********************************Forgive me my little joke; when I picked up the classic by Bester, I had no idea what I was in for, except a classic sci-fi--in space, with a rather appealing title.The main character is Gully Foyle, a spacer with no real motivation in life.
From here, the story takes off, as Gully discovers the heat of revenge as the one thing that can give him purpose.One might think that discovering a passion could connect Gully to humanity, and possibly even the reader, a previously amorphous blob of a human who was content to vegetate his way through life.
Holy shit, The Stars My Destination is a revelation.
How'd this novel get past me for so long?
I picture Alfred Bester as a mad scientist, surrounded by paper and typewriters, a cigarette dangling from his mouth, knocking this fucker out in the mid-50s.
Bester writes likes he has to get all of his ideas out of his head RIGHT NOW, like they're going to explode if they stay in his brain too long.
And Bester wrote the book in the mid-fifties!
You kicked the shit out of this novel.
What remains is the story of that revenge and how it changes Gully and the world.Bester has created a rich and complex future in the twenty-fifth century: mankind has spread across the solar system, there is a full-fledged war due to commercial tensions between the settled worlds, people no longer travel but rather "Jaunte" - that is, transport themselves at the speed of thought...
Yet we keep on following him due to two reasons - the story is so powerful, and there is absolutely no attempt from the author's side to justify his character.Towards the end the novel takes a huge conceptual leap, as perspective shifts over time and space.
Fortunately I have memory like a sieve so I enjoy this reread just as much as the first time.The Stars My Destination is one of the few sf books that is included in almost every all-time best sf books I have ever seen, and I have seen many.
Foyle is not exactly likable but you have to feel sorry for the ordeals he goes through in this book.
Bester's witty and intelligent prose contrast nicely with the gutter language spoken by Foyle in the first half of the book.
I suspect these last chapters play a large part in pushing the book to its classic status.I love this book, me!
God knows whether this is really a five star novel, but it was when I read it as a young teenybopper, and it bopped all over my teeny brain and imploded it into a zillion sparkly pieces which took many months to gradually meld back into a usable item again - I think that's why I did so poorly in my physics exam.
then, partly because Gully Foyle, the antiest of heroes, has a facial tiger tattoo like thisWell, fiercer than that, so that big tough aliens are scared of him, you know.
What a guy.So this is another in the series of I-loved-this-to-death-then-but-I-don't-know-what-the-hell-I'd-think-about-it-now useless reviews.
It is nothing like the typical science fiction novels of the mid-Fifties.Now, for the negative.
Also, while I really loved the character of Robin Wednesbury, I hated how Bester felt it necessary to say something about her being a Negro every time he talked about her.
It's clear that he thought it would be really cool to have an intelligent, capable Negro "girl" character and he acts like it's really remarkable.
I've read enough books from the Fifties and earlier to know that they are not typical of the better writing of the time and I feel that Bester's biases just got the better of him.
Alfred Bester began his career with stories published in  Thrilling Wonder Stories ,  Startling Stories ,  Astounding Science Fiction  - names that have come to define that brief period known as the Golden Age of SF, when the possibilities offered by science seemed limited only by the human imagination, and the opening of the road to the stars only a couple of decades away.
The Stars My Destination is one such book, a thrill ride from beginning to end that despite being published in 1955 still hits hard and holds its own in 2017.
Some golden age SF can't transcend the period in which it was written, and is mired in concepts that are now outdated, or modes of storytelling that present day readers can find dull (see some of Asimov's short stories for prime examples of this type.) The Stars My Destination in contrast, is still fresh.
Okurken ölesiye sinir olduğunuz bir kitaba karşı, bitirince en sevdiğiniz kitaplar arasına dahi sokabileceğinizi hissetiğiniz oldu mu daha önce?
Kaplan!' biraz baştan savdığım bir kitap oldu.
Okuması kolay bir kitap olduğunu düşünmüyorum, en azından benim için öyleydi.
Gerçi Gully için uçuk biraz hafif kalır, saykoyu tercih edeceğim.Tekrar okunabilecek kitaplar listesine yazdım kitabı.
Her şey aniden oluyormuş gibi hissettiren bir dili var Bester'ın.
İçinizde çoğu var ama azını kullanıyorsunuz.
İçinizde milyon var ama kuruş harcıyorsunuz.
Büyük olmanız için meydan okumayla yüzleşmeniz lazım.
Ya kendinizi patlatıp merhum İsa'nın ardından gidin ya da beni bulun, Gully Foyle'u bulun ve ben sizi insan yapayım.
Sizi büyük yapayım.
Gully Foyle is not a likeable man. But he is a compelling one. And in The Stars My Destination Alfred Bester wrote one of his best. (I do like The Demolished Man a little bit more.) Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
"The jaunte rules supreme..."I read this book more than 20 years ago and finally I got to read it again (It's been for some time on my TBR Pile of long-ago-SF-Books...)There's many SF classics to be read, and I have read most of them.Often, when reading books from the "good old day", the datedness of the tale, writing, and characters is very obvious to the modern eye. Not so with this book.SF is a difficult and transient literature at the best of times. It claims to treat of the future. But noth
"The Stars My Destination" is one of those books that fends off the test of time.When I read this book in the late 80's as a young teenager, I read it under the title "Tiger!
Tiger!", which it's a title I much prefer.This is Cyberpunk before William Gibson "invented" it: it has got corporate intrigue, a mysterious McGuffin (PyRE), an amoral hero and a super-cool woman,...Still one of my favourites.
Predating cyberpunk by almost three decades (if you count from Neuromancer in 1984), it features a fully-realized world of ruthless multinational corporations, cybernetic enhancements, and most importantly, the concept of “jaunting”, the ability to teleport instantly between two places if the jaunter knows the exact locations and has seen them before physically.
There are even some telepaths (echoes of Bester’s previous novel The Demolished Man, which won the inaugural Hugo Award) in the story, a mysterious super-powerful substance called PyrE, a “jaunt-proof” high security prison, a primitive space-bound cargo cult, various assassins and secret societies, and a struggle between the Inner Planets and Outer Colonies, which is a theme that has been explored in the genre many times since, including most recently James S.A. Corey’s THE EXPANSE series.
Fast and furious and blackly comedic similiar to early Vonnegut or Jack Vance mixed with the bitter surrealism of Finney's "Circus of Doctor Lao", this book predicted and influenced trends like the British New Wave,cyberpunk, and new space opera, but retains an oddball flavor of its own.
Satirizing 50's anxieties like the red scare and the threat of nuclear annihilation(and unhindered corporate greed and warmongering)and featuring a psychopathic protagonist(loose in world that makes him look like a boyscout) this book has barely dated a day since its writing, especially since everything it satirizes has not left us.
Add a truly satisfying conclusion and explanation of the economic impact of teleportation makes this book truly classic.
Through a series of adventures Gully reinvents himself through education and accomplishment, always drawing closer to the revenge he seeks and almost always defeated by his own psychopathic compulsions.There are elements of the 1950s all through this work, from the simmering cold war between the Inner Planets and the Outer Satellites, to the imminent apocalyptic destructive potential of the PyrE substance that much of the plot revolves around, to the rise of corporate conformity culture that we see with the Mr Prestos of the Presteign company.
There's also a sign of the Campbellian SF times with a large part of the plot concerning mental powers of teleportation (Jaunting) and telepathy.It's also very clear how influential this book was on later works.
As a straight SF novel today, it's barely OK - the characters are unlikable, the science magical, & the romance is ridiculous - yet it manages to leverage these weaknesses into a story that is really intriguing & even inspiring, if you can put your sense of disbelief on hold.
The neat ideas:- Synesthesia was known back then, but I've read this was one of the earliest popular novels that used it.- One of the early, best examples of modern cybernetics.
Anyway, it was kind of a blast from the past.I think I read this way back when, but had forgotten most of it.
I think Bester meant to make that some kind of redemption for the character but it kind of made it worse  (hide spoiler)].
But as I don't think the author intended for me to like any of the characters (at least not until the end) I can't really fault him on that front but I will say that it's odd to cast a bunch of douche bags.Story - The central plot is fairly entertaining.
It was in the last 50 pages that had the best dialogue, the best story line, the best character development and the best writing.
This is a real, honest attempt to do something different that falls flat.But a failed ambitious ending and a little bit of prefiguration are not enough to save this book from its many heinous flaws.
This is a problem with so much science fiction from basically every era, where the technology is pushed into the future but the social structure, despite a little lip service, remains entirely planted in the author's present.
Bester posits a game-changing, difference-leveling disruptive technology, and then fails to follow through on its actual implications, preferring instead to wed his idea of the disruption to his own prejudices.
Puedes no estar de acuerdo con todo lo que se le ocurre, su visión de las mujeres y las relaciones amorosas/sexuales es algo problemática a veces, pero tiene imaginación y no le tiene miedo a forzar los límites, no solo en cuanto a historia, sino también en cómo reflejarla en el palabras.
Es el protagonista, vemos la historia a través de sus ojos, pero no es un héroe.Es en cierta forma una novela controvertida, a partes visionaria, y muy entretenida, no solo por lo que te está contando, sino cómo lo está haciendo.
i'd read a lot of the classic stuff, a lot of the authors i liked were either retired or dead, and fantasy was taking over from science fiction with books about dragons and wizards and their ilk, and that really didn't turn me on.so then, for close to 30 years, i read very little sf at all and i priimarily read what is somewhat ambiguously called literary fiction, even though good genre fiction should be able to be classed as literature, but usually isn't.
Gully Foyle, lowest of the low, lazy, crude, murderer, rapist, ignorant brute of a man, hired as a low grade mechanic on the spaceship Nomad.
The only survivor of a brutal attack, he scavenged food and oxygen for six months, hiding away in a locker until he sees the spaceship Vorga approach.
Incensed with fury, Foyle swears revenge on the crew of the Vorga.
There has never been an anti-hero like Gully Foyle and his actions and choices at the end of the book were astounding.
You got the most in you, and you use the least.
Got a million in you and spend pennies.
Things like the internet, for example, which is so useful and fun.
Got a million in us and spend pennies.I can’t say that I liked the main character, Gully Foyle, but I couldn’t ignore him either.
Plus, Jaunting (teleportation) seemed to be a great way to completely change society.
The wealthy create labyrinths to protect their wealth and their women (for you have to know the co-ordinates of a location to jaunte there).
Got a genius in him and thinks crazies.
Eski bilimkurgu kitaplarını değerlendirirken, işlenen temaları ve kullanılan bilimsel zamazingoları dönemin şartlarına göre değerlendirmek gerek.
Geçmişte çok devrimsel görülen bazı metinler günümüzde klişe kalabiliyor, bu da okur açısından eğer kitabı zamanına göre değerlendirmezse hayal kırıklığı yaratabiliyor.
ön planda.
Bilim yönünü ihmal edin demiyorum ama karakterlerin yaşadıkları, gelişimleri o kadar iyi işlenmiş ki diğer konular doğal olarak biraz geri planda kalıyor.
Baş karakter bir kahraman değil, hatta bir kötü adam.
Günümüzde çok karşılaştığım ve hiç sevmediğim baş karakteri kötü yapalım karizmatik olurculuk ekolünden değil, bu nedenle karakteri başarılı buldum.İthaki'nin bilimkurgu klasikleri serisi adının hakkını vererek devam ediyor.
9/10, çok güzel bir kitap.
