https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021227-helmet-for-my-pillow
Much of the HBO storyline comes from this book, which is Leckie's story of his life from induction through boot camp at Parris Island and then on to fighting in the Pacific.
It's a war book about killing and patrols and campaigns, but also one about being thrown in the brig, sybaritic shore leave in Australia, and the thievery and corner cutting required to keep the First marines in food and comfort, such as could be had in those awful places.Leckie had respect for his enemy, and some of the most effective anti-war statements I've ever read are passages in this book where he recalls the cold-stone sadness of dead bodies sprawled about, a man's hand, severed, no longer a divine spark.This book will allow you to taste, smell, and feel what it was like for the brave young men who beat back the Japanese Empire, fighting atoll to island, far from the hoopla.
Yet his own moral failings (which undoubtedly preceded the War) reveal his lack of true understanding of the conflict: the book's epilogue is a meditation about the wrongfulness of the atom bomb, yet Leckie had to know the projected American casualty rates had we invaded Japan itself -- Leckie might have been one of the men on those beaches facing tens of thousands of fanatical emperor-worshipers.
By chronicling their escapades on the islands and in Australia he showed that their needs did not differ from other men who are not at war.Robert Leckie was being a poet when he wrote this.
The atrocity of war is present in the book but not so much as the sadness that permeates through his descriptive passages.
After all the victories have been celebrated, all the losses mourned, it is sadness for a multitude of things that linger on.One must read this book in order not to forget history.
"It is to sacrifice that men go to war.
After reading Eugene Sledge's book on his experiences in WWII, I finally picked up Robert Leckie's book as well, these two were a majority of the basis used for the Pacific series that was on HBO several years go.
Here, Leckie was writing a first person narrative that truly portrayed the dogie dog days being a Marine in the jungles of the Pacific, fighting, clawing and, surviving each day.
His narrative and writing flowed so naturally that it transported me to these sites.
If you are interested in a true portrayal of the war experience read this.
So many HIGH marks for this book, however - not me. Too many flowery words used in this true WW2 story.
If you watched all ten episodes of HBO’s 2010 special, “The Pacific,” you’re most likely already aware that Robert Leckie’s journal, “Helmet for my Pillow” was one of three soldier memoirs Tom Hanks, Steven Spielberg and the other producers used to create that epic miniseries.
In fact, in the first scene of the first episode, Leckie meets a next-door-neighbor, Vera Keller in church prior to his departure for the Marine Corps.
Nineteen more pages later, we find Chuckler and Leckie stealing more food from the U.S. Army.
The author steals more military food stuffs fourteen pages later.
My guess is the reason the book stood the test of time is that the author, before he enlisted (and paid a, um, steep price of admission for doing so), he was a writer/reporter/journalist.
This is one Marine's experience and, with a minor exception in the conclusion (which, frankly, did not move me as much as many other passages in the book), the author rarely broadens the perspective.
Jaded as the author may have been (or have become), it's still a different time and place and culture than ...
There's a reason some books stand the test of time.
It’s like listening to a grandfather telling war stories to his teenage grandchild or a veteran telling of his experiences to his non-military friends.
The real truth is masked by a dull edge so that that grandchild or the friends can be saved from the savage, sometimes inexplicable, nature of war.
Without books like Helmet for my Pillow they may forget that wars of a global scale were ever fought at all, and combat with a somewhat dull blade is still combat.
I down loaded this as an audio book so that I could learn more about some of the infantry battles on Guadalcanal and some of the other islands.
Other than a fine account of the battle of the Teneru on Guadalcanal, I really didn't get what I expected.
I also thought that Leckie's platoon leaders did not treat him fairly.
I also think that young platoon leaders should read this as well.
I really think if you want to read a better first hand account of the fighting read E.B. Sledge's With the Old Breed.Thank you for your service Mr. Leckie.
To see this hand lying alone, as though contemptuously cast aside, no longer a part of a man, no longer his help, was to see war in all its wantonness; it was to see the especially brutal savagery of our own technique of rending, and it was to see men at their eternal worst, turning upon one another, tearing one another, clawing at their own innards with the maniacal fury of the pride-possessed....
He signed up for the marines after the bombing of Pearl Harbor and began combat in the Pacific theater.
Kind of a "what do you expect when you expect guys to fight and die and then spend a couple months in paradise".
He takes full advantage of his time there.I thought his final comment on the atomic bomb was interesting, he didn't seem to approve of it.
To me, it seemed as if he was saying that the soldiers signed up to fight and die, therefore, invading Japan was their duty.
*listened to audiobook*So my boyfriend is big into history, so am I... But I'm terrible with dates and details and there's a lot I still don't know. He had me watch the show The Pacific, which this book is based on. I learned a lot about the Pacific war that I never knew before. James Badge Dale plays Robert Leckie and he does a great job narrating this book. I learned even more. I thought WW2 was mostly about the Nazis... But now I know. They don't teach you everything in school. This was a great book.
Some decades ago I had read his "Delivered from Evil" history of WWII.It struck me that that book was more concisely and better written and presented than this "Helmet for my Pillow" work however upon some investigation I found that "Helmet" was his first book and the other at least 15 years later and that Leckie was a rather prolific author of war history most heavily from WWII era.Maybe a better book to understand combat Marines in the Pacific would be With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa by Eugene B.
Sledge - but both are good - the Sledge book was written 24 years after the Helmet and the author would have had more maturity and perspective.
I liked this book overall. It has a lot of action and shows the struggles of war
the epilogue 😭
Okay, I'll admit it - I first heard of Robert Leckie and his 1957 memoir Helmet for My Pillow when I watched HBO's The Pacific.
Leckie's original description of what he and so many other World War II Marines went through was well worth reading.Leckie starts out, as you'd guess from the memoirs subtitle "From Parris Island to the Pacific", describing his enlistment and his training in boot camp at Parris Island.
After writing this memoir, Leckie wrote many books about American military history, and after reading Helmet for My Pillow I intend to explore those as well - a sure endorsement if ever there was one for any author.
Leckie doesn’t set out to glorify or disparage war or the military; he simply details his experiences, and ties his feelings to larger human experiences, giving the reader as good a look into the mindset of a soldier during battle as I’ve ever read.
Where many other war memoirists were soldiers first and writers second, Leckie is just the opposite as this book is filled with careful, precise, and incisive prose.
A man who knows he is expendable loses his spirit for the fight, and latches on to the support of his comrades - or goes mad.Leckie shares his full military experience - including that of the tyranny of military officers who have near-total control of a man.
He was in a unique situation to appreciate what the "mushroom cloud" meant for him as a marine who might be called on to fight more, and as someone who had survived bombings and bombardment.I believe Robert Leckie was preserved by God so that we could know the truth about WWII.
Helmet for my pillowRobert Leckie Robert Leckie, Chuckler, Runner, Lt. Ivy- League, Sergeant Dandy, Red, General Smedley Butler, Big Ski,Lieutenant Racehores, The Chicken, Hope, Mr. Five by Five, Oakstump, The Commander, Father Straight, Buri, Colonel, Lieutenant Big-Picture, Sergeant Major, The story is about a man named Robert Leckie who fought in World War Two as us marine in the pacific and the battles he served in is the first battle of Guadalcanal and the last Peleliu.Robert Leckie has join the u.s marines on January 1942 and was sent to Boot camp in Parries Island.
He gives affectionate nicknames to all his characters, and although they are real people, their identities are concealed.A large portion of the book is devoted to what happened in between combat campaigns and how the marines entertained themselves in these times.
Being Australian, I enjoyed reading about his fondness of Australia and there is about a hundred pages devoted to what the marines did in and around Melbourne during WWII.
I'm left with the amusing image of thousands of inflated condoms floating on the water between the docks and Leckie's ship departing out of Port Melbourne following the “Great Debauch!”
This book is actually more memoir than a history. Mr. Leckie has written some of my favorite histories, especially military history. He served during WWII.From his entry into the service through each deployment...and leave you get the stories of his life. The book doesn't emphasize military actions (though they are described) but on his day to day life. Living and waiting on Guadalcanal and later deployments along with "more scintillating activities" between deployments.This is a good insight into the background of an American Marine and a historical writer.Recommended.
A great book that brings the reader into the world of war. It gives one a nose to nose meeting with the most difficult decisions a person will ever have to make, to kill or die. It has been said that if a person fails to study history they are doomed to repeat it. This book gives a great insight into the innocent people that go to war, and what they must endure it. This book was used as part of The Pacific mini series, and the Band of Brothers. A must read, no fiction here, just reality.
I read this book as a result of watching the HBO series "Pacific". The author of this book wrote movingly and poetically of his experiences as a combatant in the Pacific campaign. Good read, but it takes time to absorb what the author writes. I didn't sit down and read it cover to cover in one sitting.
Robert Leckie was in the First Marine Division during World War 2 and saw action on Guadalcanal, New Britain and Peleliu; this book is his memoir.
Once he and his buddies got back to the pier, they realized that the Marines returning through the gate were being detained.
Because Leckie and his buddies hadn’t been sufficiently stealthy to avoid detection, they were the ones sent to the brig.My favorite part of the book took dealt with the time period between New Britain and Peleliu, when Leckie’s unit was refitting on Pavuvu.
Little did they know or understand that as war is part of the terrible human condition it's one I find both fascinating and terrifying in equal measure and was driven to read some of the personal memoirs after watching the excellent HBO series 'The Pacific'.
Leckie's personal narrative of life as a young enlisted marine is beautiful, eloquent and at times a humourous account of the horrors faced in the jungles by an enemy as equally dogged as those that opposed them.
If you have an interest in WW2 history or even in personal narratives of historical events I would thoroughly recommend this read.
Helmet for My Pillow is distinguished by its' humor.
Like Sam Watkins, Leckie has an eye for the goofy and the sardonic.
Leckie was a good soldier, but he was not made for a life of discipline.
He was not a warrior like Junger or Ninh.
He was a survivor.
The idea that "war is hell" is less strong here.
Oh, it has moments of horror and cruelty and bloodthirsty excitement, but not with the same intensity.
Leckie is at his best describing the quirks of a given situation: his account of the brig, Melbourne, and P-38 is better than his account of battle.
If you are looking for a book about WWII in the Pacific from the point of view of an enlisted Marine this book is an easy read. It lays out the realities of day to day life in the jungle with all the perils and limitations of war. An average middle student reader should be able to read and comprehend this book. It does more than hint at the sexually exploits of U.S. Marines while in Australia along with the violence connected with combat but in context with war and makes sense.
This is Leckie's personal story of his experiences as a marine during WW2. There are no big picture views of the war in this book. (See Lickie's other books for that.) It is strictly grunts-eye view all the way. Brutal, poignant, and at times hilarious, Leckie pulled no punches in this narrative and didn't spare himself. 3.5 stars rounded up.
Another great first hand account of life on the front lines during World War II. Doesn't hurt that Robert Leckie is from my home state of New Jersey.
This is not a real battle field thriller, but rather it's a description of the author's life when he was a marine.
The battles are not glorified.
Since I watched the HBO mini series "The Pacific", I thought I had to get this book.
I guess he didn't put all the adventures in the book in case he is being accused of being immoral.
And the HBO mini series actually fabricated a conventional love story.
Somehow I guess people would love to see the real stories, not the fabricated ones to boost the imagined credibility of the convention.
