https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821330.Baa_Baa_Black_Sheep
The book is probably not "good," but I enjoyed it too much to notice.And if you want to round out your vision of the myth with some facts, this book will help you.
If you have an autographed picture of "Pappy" with his squadron because your uncle was in the Marines and served in the Pacific in WW II and knew him, then you already enjoyed this book.
This book proves, like Pappy says and so admits about himself that all heroes are bums in some respect at least.
In spite of his personal failures and in the nadir of mental anguish, he reached a zenith as a combat pilot and leader of men.
When most people would have given up after so many set backs (physical, mental, spiritual, and political) and denials from his superiors, political intrigue, etc., he manged to find a way to rise to the top, cut the red tape and in a material way help win a war.
This book didn’t grab me because of the writing ability of Gregory Boyington, but I was hooked from page one.
His front page quote has stuck with me to this day, “Just name any hero… and I’ll prove he’s a bum.” Boyington saw the world differently than anyone around him and even though he was in the military, he pulled no punches about doing things ‘his’ way and the world be damned.
I’d recommend this book to anyone with interest in WWII or as an autobiography or a real man and a real American hero.
I'm not normally a major reader of war memoirs, but Greg "Pappy" Boyington's story of his experiences as a fighter pilot during WWII (including commanding the famous Black Sheep Squadron) and his time spent in a Japanese POW camp was a fascinating read. Blunt, honest, and witty, with self-deprecating humor and understated heroics aplenty, this autobio left me with stars in my eyes, muttering "What a guy" in amazement at both his nerve (the man was a self-confessed troublemaker) and his bravery.
Surprisingly good. Despite Boyingtons reputation for padding the truth a little, my initial hesitations were won over by the honest and down to earth tone of his writing. The number of times he makes fun of himself outnumber the times he brags. I enjoyed taking a look back in time into the minds of the fighting citizen soldiers at that time, learning about air warfare in the Pacific, and seeing the strange contradictions of life as a prisoner under the Japanese.
"Show me a hero, and I'll prove he's a bum." -Greg BoyingtonThis book's is about the author's experiences as a WWII pilot in the Pacific.
He has some interesting insights into war and the human condition.
He was also a total drunk, and there are a few stories of his drunken escapes through the book.
Thus he has some interesting insights into the whole military propaganda machine as well.
In short, an interesting book, with lots of stories told in a very matter-of-fact manner.
Worth reading if you are interested in WWII or military aviation.
I saw the new Medal of Honor memorial at UW, which includes Boyington, and on my way past Magus Books saw the book in their window (along with several others that I bought).I watched the TV show "Baa Baa Black Sheep" as a kid and went through a phase where I read a lot about military aircraft.
My favorite was the Vought F4 Corsair, featured in the book and the show.
The gull-winged Corsair still is a favorite, with the P-38 and P-45 close behind.Boyington is more interesting in autobiography than he was on the television show.
It was an ok read even though he is tough to follow at times since his narrative is much like a stream of semi-random thoughts and stories, especially early on.
I learned a few things - he was a five-time combat ace, he was a hidden POW (what the Japanese termed a "captive" and therefore not subject to Geneva Convention rules concerning treatment) for two years, and he was an alcoholic.
The later part of a the book focuses on the alcoholism and his life after the war.
Great story of the Flying Tigers & VMF-214, flying the great Chance-Vought Corsair. Plus a spiritual journey through a difficult life.
Very Gud
Fascinating story of courageous and troubled man.Pappy Boyington tells a great story about his flying in the Flying Tigers in China and Marine Corps in the Solomon Islands.
Because of his alcoholism he is a humble and broken man.
He provides a very honest assessment of his flying days in combat, his 20 months in a brutal Japanese POW camp and his struggles with alcohol after the war.
Just a real humble and broken man.
As a Naval Aviator during desert storm, his description of squadron life and dealing with non combatant senior officers is very authentic.
He provides great descriptions and detail of many of his combat experiences.
I feel a little embarrassed saying this, but I really enjoyed this book.
I enjoyed watching the TV show when I was growing up.
So this book is a bit of a flashback for me.2.
I enjoy the history.
I enjoyed Greg Boyington's "take" on the history.
His experience especially as a POW was really interesting, especially when contrasted to the experience of Louis Zamperini, who wrote "Unbroken." This book isn't going to win any awards, (it isn't that well-written) but especially for someone like me, who grew up watching the show, and interested in the history, I enjoyed reading it.
The autobiography of the creator of the Black Sheep Squadron as told by the only man in the Pacific Theater who could round up renegade pilots who had been kicked out of other squads and band them together into a deadly and cohesive lot.
After flying with Chennault's Flying Tigers and then becoming the most successful fighter pilot in US history, "Pappy" was shot down and spent time in the same prison camp as Louis Zamperini.
Underlying his life story was his battle with the bottle.
Unfortunately, the story was written in the 1950s and doesn't cover the latter parts of his life.
An honest tale of a mans journey.......I have been a fan of the TV show "Baa Baa Black Sheep" since it first appeared back in 1976, I believe. I found this book more than riveting, opening up the man, Greg "Pappy" Boyington, in a way the show that I loved never did. Every twist & turn his life took made him the man he was. He gives an insight into many situations that I doubt I would have otherwise gleaned. I am so happy I decided to read this, I recommend it highly.
Really good book! I think the only thing that I didn't really like was that Pappy didn't really know that much about writing books, but it was such a good book that doesn't matter. I was really sad when I finished it. Would recommend this book to almost anyone!
Very good readI loved watching the show Baa Baa BLACK Sheep and wanted to read Pappy's book. I'm happy I did. I am happy Greg wad able to overcome his drinking problem and hee found peace in his life at last¡
If you are a fan of WWII history books written by the participant, this is a must read.Famous Black Sheep Squadron led by Pappy Boyington. I am lucky to have a 1960s hardcover with dust jacket.
Very good book. Signed by the author.
ExcellentReads like a conversation with Pappy, with all the thoughts and digressions that come and go during it. Readable, really enjoyable.
A man with his devilsI have in my memory the picture of Robert Conrad from the serie. In fact Boyington was more than a tv hero. Very interesting please read it
Picked this up out of curiosity. Interesting
A real hero.A good personal story by an American hero on his own words.A tribute to the greatest generation, even with their faults.
Gregory “Pappy” Boyington is credited with destroying 28 Japanese aircraft during World War II, making him the top-scoring fighter ace for the USMC during the conflict (and tied in fourth place for American aces in any of the services).
They will imply such thoughts as: “All Russians are …” or “All Frenchmen are …” or “All Englishmen are …” or even “The Japanese are …” Whenever people ask me today about the Japanese, I rather suppose I am expected to hate them, all of them, and largely because of what was done to us captives there in the camp of Ofuna.
Pappy Boyington would not have gotten great marks for literary style or technique, but a reader delving into BAA BAA BLACK SHEEP probably wouldn't care very much.
Boyington drives home the excitement and horror of his wartime experiences with great intensity, making this book a real thriller.
Despite Boyington's endless flaws and rough edges (which he never ceases to remind you of), he comes across as a character to admire and to identify with--even if you often want to smack him a good one.
I LOVED this book!
Irreverent and true-blue off the cuff styling, this man is exactly what I was expecting after so many years of watching reruns of the old televisions shows.The only thing they couldn't show on TB was his sense of duty, his courage and honor, the call of duty that compelled him and his unparalleled talent to take those birds up into the air and splash enemies like no one else.
Whether he improved at writing as he went along or I got used to him, I couldn't tell you.What more than makes up for the writing skill is the incredibly personal look at the life of an officer for the duration of the US involvement in WWⅡ.He has a lot to say about Madame Chiang (wife of Chiang Kai-shek) and Chennault, mentioned Admiral Halsey, and so on, and it's fascinating to see the cynical perspective on these overall great people.
Objectively speaking, there was much to praise concerning the likes of Chennault and Chiang, but you can be a hero and still be hard to like in person.
Once again the war memoir reigns supreme.
History is written by the victors and in order to seek truth one must read many books and find the common elements; and read war memoirs.
That though is a problem with this book.
In maintianing such a high level of humility, Greg Boyington omits important events that occured in his life.
I actually learned more from internet searches than from this book, but it is a great history of the war and his time in a Japanese POW camp.
An interesting note: Boyington graduated from UW and was stationed shortly at Fort Warden in Port Townsend.
This book has been on my shelf for quite a while and I'm glad I finally got around to reading it.
I was partially familiar with his story from the TV series based on his time flying Corsairs in the Pacific.
My first impression was that his writing wasn't as refined as what I was used to reading.
After reading it I feel that the writing actually reflects his personality and made the book better because of it.
He covers more than just his time in WWII but I think anyone interested in that era would enjoy reading this book.

Frank and witty, Boyington gives you an uncensored narrative of his years during the war.
He tells it like it is, and doesn't gloss over others' or his own failures and mistakes.
I like that through the course of the book, he gives little focus to bitterness or hatred, he does not linger on the horrific things that he undoubtedly experienced, but instead gives the majority of the attention to the people that he met and that had a great influence on him.
I very much envy the outlook on life he has, though I know he learned and earned it the hard way.
