https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57572.Don_t_Know_Much_about_History
It is infinitely easier to critize a book like this one than it is to write one.
His prose is littered with pronouns lacking clear antecedents and most irklingly, he constantly repeats proper nouns making for some seriously bumpy, seriously irritating reading: "Almost from the moment Israel was born in 1948 out of their war of independence, Israel occupied a singular, untouchable position in American foreign policy." (pg.
I think we are all pretty much clear on that point.
But Davis goes one step too far with this negativity by taking a cynical view of every single aspect of the nation's history.
However, I would generally not recommend this book for anything other than as a springboard into further study and thankfully for this purpose Davis provides a very detailed list of further readings for each section.
While I understand and have no issue with the particular question-and-answer style chosen by Davis, from the middle of the book onward I kept encountering the end of a section followed by an unrelated insertion of an "American Voice" with a line or a paragraph explaining the significance of the excerpt.
Then he would launch into a new section once again unrelated to the "American Voice".
Currently rereading, actually. I taught advanced US History I from this book, nearly twenty years ago. Davis has this new addition and my old one got "loaned out", so I bought new to find out what had been added.OK, book read. Just as entertaining, witty, and iconoclastic as the original edition. I am very glad this book is back on my shelves.
The book covers all the basic tenants of American history- from the discovery of America (which the book is quick to point out was already inhabited); the book then pokes fun at Columbus for naming the natives “Indians” because Columbus thought he was in India (this is actually disputed among historians; its widely speculated that Columbus’ name for the Natives was “in diego” which means in Spanish “with God”; no surprise, the author does not mention this), to Americas wars (always dressed in the garb of Imperialism, sans Darth Vader) and this nations really sad record on civil rights.
There was a TV documentary called, America the Story of Us on the history channel that only gave the good things about American History. This book was nothing like that. It gave everything, the good and the bad, and this author must have read a freakish amount of books to know that much. I learned so much and it proves that America wasn't just made up of perfect people who did perfect things. The only reason it isn't 5 stars is that it doesn't describe the weakness of the Articles of Confederation in detail like it does everything else.
The more I read about history, especially American history, the more appalled and the more hopeful I become.
Appalled, because humanity keeps making the same mistakes fueled by greed, apathy, and ignorance.
Hopeful, because eventually a movement starts that achieves real change for the better and because we as a species have proven our resilience over and over.Every single one of our founding fathers and all the men and women we consider great in the history of our nation were flawed.
As 'great' as we are as a nation, history reminds us that we still have the opportunity to be good.Anyway, good refresher on American history.
Its always disconcerting when the first few lines of a book try to turn George Washington's prayer at Valley Forge into a farce made up by hyper religious people.
Right then I knew I was reading a book written by a liberal.
But I continued.
I thought his history way too basic at this point but I continued.
I went on to read how the Pilgrims were another way too religious sect and I had enough.
You better know your real history before you read these "facts".
Eventually my inner-freedom-fighters overthrow my inner-despot, and re-establish the right of all Americans to be ignorant, misinformed, uneducated, and stupid.
The founding fathers were themselves benevolent despots.
They recognized way back then that pure "democracies" were simply opportunities for powerful and wealthy demagogues to manipulate stupid people to their advantage.
Because, as the founding fathers recognized, many if not most people in this country are woefully ignorant and could be used like tools by rich evil bastards.
Thanks to the vision of those founding fathers, our republic has survived for over two centuries.
A thoroughly readable history of the U.S., warts and all, excellent for the history-challenged like myself and those who need a quick brush-up. I'm clearing a spot on my reference shelf for Don't know Much About History, Every thing you need to Know About American history But Never Learned, by Kenneth C. Davis. This edition covers through the year 2010.
History books, by their nature, are never "definitive" no matter what the title at the front or the blurb at the back may state.
However, a good history book will give the reader some sort of springboard from which to launch into the lifetime's pursuit that is history.
This book's accessible, often witty style will inform, but more importantly will stimulate the thirst for knowledge, which is as it should be.
I don't think the author seeks to offend, but some formerly sacred and venerated historical figures are presented in an altogether more human form here.
Only read the few interesting bits and pieces
A classic book that makes it easy to learn American history (at least up to 1990). A must read for everyone.
The book skims too much material instead of delving, and covers American history at a shallower level than my high school AP history class (and I would hope, most high school history classes).
Instead of choosing new and interesting historical events to highlight, this book covers the same old irrelevant highlights that our history books do, only stopping occasionally to debunk some of the myths, usually the less relevant ones (like the Pilgrims carving 1620 on the actual Plymouth Rock upon landing).If you really want an interesting book that might fill in some of the holes in your history education, you should check out Lies My Teacher Told Me Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong.
The Great Depression and Dust Bowl come in a clip afterwards, forcing you to think about those unfortunate few who lived through some of the most precarious times in American history.I found, however, that as we neared the present (this book ends at the terrorist attacks of 9/11) Davis' great story-telling abilities fall to the way-side and we're once again given more dates, more time lines and more Proper Nouns without fully understanding why those nouns are important.
I understand that this is an American history book and perhaps Davis didn't feel it necessary to delve into the workings of other countries, but I feel as though doing so might have made all of those time lines more meaningful.
This was a fairly good book and has been the perfect book for quite some time for my visits to our home library (bathroom).
Events throughout history are simplified into a couple of pages making it perfect for your home library (ya, you know).
I've really enjoyed this book.The part about "never learned" in the title is awesome as it makes you want to read it but it is a very basic recount of historical events, all of which you would have learned in school.I've realized that most history books are fairly consistent from Columbus to around the Great Depression.
Or what the Quakers had to do with the Prohibition, or what the New Deal was or any number of pieces of our history.
My American History knowledge is like swiss cheese.
I have huge holes in my timeline of history.
I've been reading this book for over a month now.
I can't recomend this book enough - the author is a great writer and an easy read, and i've already re-finished my entire elementary school education.
Especially if you're a parent - read this so your kids can ask you questions and you can have answers.
I think a better title for this book might have been, "Don't Know ANYTHING about History".
I am fearful that those who don't know "anything" will think this is the complete text of American history.
Although it is a major feat to write a book containing "all" of American history, this book just falls short.
The book contains a lot of negative American history.
The great parts of our history are glossed over, while the negative aspects have extraordinary detail.
This book has shown me that if I want to know more about American history..I have to read other books.
(There is an updated version, but my copy was printed in 1995.) I learned quite a bit about those bits we skipped in school, like the Vietnam and Korean Wars.
Though it could not replace a traditional history course, since there is an assumption that you know enough basic information to ask the questions being answered, it is an excellent refresher for those who have long since forgotten the names and dates they learned in school.
Like most good popular history books, it brings out the human side of history, turning the names into people and the dates into actions with consequences.
I've always enjoyed history, and I like to think that I have a good working knowledge of it.
But this was a good review presented in an engaging, easy-to-follow format.
I learned a lot and found that the time passed quickly as I listened.
There were, of course, sections where I thought Davis spent too much time and others where he didn't spend enough.
But I'm sure you could say that about any history book.I would recommend this book even to people who don't enjoy history simply for the perspective it will give on the events of today.
Synopsis: Yes, this is a history book.
It essentially covers US history from Christopher Columbus and the modern discovery of America up to the first few years of Obama's Presidency.
Originally published during Bush I's presidency, it was updated a couple of years ago to include the Clinton years, 9/11 and the Iraq & Afghanistan Wars.My Review: For me, this was more of a refresher course on American history as I'm fairly familiar with our nation's storied past.
However, just as the author claims, this book was written in a much more easy to digest and enjoy fashion than your typically history book.
I recently decided I wanted to know more about History, but didn't know where to start. I found this book at a used book sale and it was exactly what I was looking for. It hits all the major bullet points in American History, with suggested further reading at the end of the chapters, just in case there is a subject that you wanted to know more about (which I used and promptly added several books to my Goodreads list.) It also lays out important dates in major wars. This book should be added to everyone's bookshelf!
The author makes the point that school history texts kill interest by leaving all the interesting parts out. To make his point, he tells a vulgar story about George Washington. AFter that, the book becomes pretty much the type of history Davis condemns: not that interesting. Occasionally, he gives a new assessment of an incident. The format is question and answer. One third of the content was the past fifty years, right up to September 11, 2001.
very readable. Of course it can't begin to cover everything but many of the paragraphs regarding each decade were fascinating and little known. I learned a great deal and can now see parallels and repeating cycles and the errors and crimes of the greedy and cruel and misguided.
good primer and fast/easy read if you like history books. As with any history book, important to keep in mind that the information is never "neutral" and will be presented with the opinions/perspective of the person presenting it.
Good for someone that really doesn't know much about history. Not a lot of detail or heavy reading.
Davis is a favorite !
the question-and-answer format is a little annoying to read straight through, but taken in small pieces it is entertaining and informative.
we read this as part of our high school history curriculum. i appreciate it now as much as i appreciated it then.
Good YA book that covers American history thoroughly but entertainingly.
A good read as a refresher or if you prefer to look up a topic for historical accuracy.
