https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420181.The_White_Witch
The blurb on the back jacket of my copy threw me for a bit & I enjoyed the book far more when I realised this wasn't a historical romance in the conventional sense of the genre. While many characters have their turn centre stage, the main character is actually Froniga, the "White Witch" of the title. My jacket gives the impression the heroine is Jenny, one of the many magical children that Goudge created over the years.     The start of the story was quite wonderful, if somewhat slow moving,
The blurb on the back jacket of my copy threw me for a bit & I enjoyed the book far more when I realised this wasn't a historical romance in the conventional sense of the genre.
My jacket gives the impression the heroine is Jenny, one of the many magical children that Goudge created over the years.
The start of the story was quite wonderful, if somewhat slow moving, showing a Goudge world with the half Gypsy Froniga, as a central source of comfort for everyone when their worlds spun out of control.
(hide spoiler)]And Goudge had her own Froniga's well 
The White Witch is probably one of the most beautiful and unusual books I've ever read.
It is not a terribly thrilling story, nor is it a page-turner.
It is a very quiet, gentle story with gorgeous prose and phrases that literally delight your senses.
I savored each chapter and description, delighting in the author's charming descriptions of an English village before the English Civil War, the beautiful white witch and healer, Froniga, and the gypsy groups in colorful wagons which inhabited the woods.
I almost expected to open the book and have the scent of apple wood smoke, lavender, and mint to emanate from the pages!
I'm only about 1/3 of the way through this particular book, but Goudge has once again managed to write things that I thought only I knew.
Her descriptions of communication with nature are so completely aligned with my experience that it makes me uneasy.
Having seen her tolerance and absolute reverence for nature, I'm starting to wonder if her character Froniga isn't meant to be Goudge herself in some way, perhaps with slightly less self-awareness.
Goudge is devotedly religious, but not in the dogmatic, traditional way.
She's edited and published several collections of various religious works, mostly poetry.
This novel is set amidst a turbulent time in history, the English Civil War. The main character Froniga is a healer, an independent woman in tune with nature. Froniga is "The White Witch" of the title.This is a beautifully written, gently unfolding novel of good versus evil, spirituality, and the immeasurable toll of a Civil War that divided families and communities. The prose, as others have noted already is lyrical and emotive.If you enjoy this period in history, then this is well worth a look at.
But please don’t get scared off by that description: it is also beautifully written, rich in character and description, and all-around rewarding.The story is set at the start of the English Civil War and spends quality time with a wide range of characters, ranging from young children through Romany (Gypsies) to an aristocrat-spy.
People who might muddle through life just fine in ordinary times are tested to the limits of their character, with mixed results.The central family is the Haslewoods, husband, wife, and twin children of eight years, along with their sister-in-law Froniga, the white witch of the title.
This is a beautifully evocative novel that is lyrical in places, contemplative, and altogether lovely.
Most of her characters were multi-layered, and you always felt like they were more then just black and white, but all the shades of grey that make up the human condition.I would have rated it 4 stars but for the fact that I felt Goudge got off track with her depictions of battles.
Personally, I'm not a fan of reading battle scenes, and I felt that she took the emphasis away from the main story of Froniga when she diverted the plot away from the main character.Otherwise, a wonderful novel.
--sigh-- Again, one of the most romantic books I've read in my short life. For those of you who likes the classy (not to be confused with Tacky) Romance Novels, this is the book for you. Mixing humorous situations with heart warming friendship, this book gives the reader something to actually think about, not just a piece of mindless literature made only to amuse.One of my most beloved books-- the cover is practically in tatters.
I've been reading this book (almost) yearly since I was sixteen, and it never has lost its magic. Goudge's writing style is simultaneously descriptive and spare, conjuring the intimacy of half-gypsy Froniga's herb-filled cottage, as well as the violent world during the time of Cromwell. To this day, the scent of rose or lavender brings me back to the first time I read the book, and I imagine myself in another life, creating rose-petal conserve, perhaps.
Gave up on this one - I remember enjoying Goudge as a youngster, but I was just finding the writing style too long-winded and sentimental. I might try another book by her, though, as I don't think this is one of her best.
He can barely wait to have his hair shorn, receive his doublet and breeches and, best of all, for his father to bring a sword from London.His parents, and the white witch, Froniga, who is half gypsy, will be present at Will’s breeching and so will his sister, Jenny, Elizabeth Goudge leads us through events great and small in which the Haslewoods, the man of many parts, Yoben, who loves and is loved by Froniga Squire Haselwood’s cousin, and Francis, the mysterious itinerant artist, make their exits and entrances.
Elizabeth Goudge is to be complimented on her historical research, imagination and lyrical prose.Every character, minor and major, is skilfully portrayed and so is the countryside and cities.I keep The White Witch on a bookcase with treasured books I will not part with.
I started reading this book 50 years ago and should have finished it then for I would have liked the book so much more when the magic of Elizabeth Goudge's The Little White Horse was still fresh in my mind. But now I found only cardboard characters in a overly sentimental g-rated book. Still, even I was touched by the epilogue, and every now and then throughout the book could catch a glimpse of Goudge's trademark unicorn.
Altogether the story had sadnesses that seemed inevitable, but also the undercurrent of joy and truth that most of us experience in our lives.I would have liked to have known Ms. Goudge--she has an eloquent and magical writing style that captures the essence of Christian spirituality and the beauty of the natural world while managing to be objective and non-judgmental.
The story was beautiful, completely unpretentious, and non-didactic, yet revealed a gentle truth of the mercy and love of God shining through the cracks of the sorrows of life.
I think this must reflect in some way the mercy that Goudge felt toward other people.
I love historical books and The White Witch fits the bill in every way.
The story itself is very good and is written in a way in which we are hardly familiar with today.
The author has a masterly way of looking at the kind of war which again we could hardly recognise today, brutal skirmishes and then stopping for a month or so or even a winter, then starting again and ending in in further cruelties.
However, I recommend that everyone reads The White Witch through and does not put it down until they have read it, because once they have done so, it will not be forgotten.
I read and reread the novels of Elizabeth Goudge early in my teens, and I loved the way she wrote about good and evil, faith and doubt in historical settings and in her own context of World Wars I and II.
Her characters, an assortment of Puritans, Catholics, Anglicans, gypsies, and witches, face inner turmoil as they are caught up in the larger war.
Through her characters Goudge challenges any adherence to blind dogma and focuses instead on the centrality of love, mercy, and nature's beauty and divinity.
Rereading this book after many years, I still enjoy the magic and mystery and her probing exploration of human nature.
Set in the English civil war this is one of my most favourite historical fiction books.
I've read it many times and will again.
The main character Jenny is both a product of the old establishment, and another much stranger people and it shows, for she has the best of both worlds.
She lives in her little cottage with her cat and her wondrous garden that she uses to help treat the locals.
That in itself make us fear for her for this was a time of rejection of anything but the staunchest Christianity.
The fear grows as we meet those willing to die for their convictions.
A great read.
This book deserves 5 stars alone for the beautiful descriptions of the country side, the herbs, the people. I saw, felt and smelt. The story takes place at the beginning of the Civil War in England. Froniga is a wonderful character, strong and resourceful. She is half gypsey so their lore and traditions are also woven into the story. Two men love her. These two are on opposite sides of the war. The war is lightly touched on showing both sides, but with all wars, there are always losers. A beautifully told story.
Imagine the softest, coziest bed, with crisp, lavender-scented linen.
Put yourself in the bed with a book, cup of tea, a biscuit, and the pet of your choice snuggled beside you.
Imagine that out the window you can see the most perfect garden, and beyond, beautiful hills and forests.
That's the feeling I get whenever I read a novel by Elizabeth Goudge.
And this one is a total treat.
But don't mistake it as mere historical chick lit: Goudge is a masterful exponent of Christian faith.
And even I, a hardened old pagan, find her profound.
She goes straight to the heart.
i grew up on Elizabeth's books, I love them each and every one. And any other book/author is judged by her depth & breadth of writing.
It's not as simple as a lot of books; the characters' lives are connected in such complex ways.
Francis isn't fighting because he is Catholic against Puritan; Yoben does fight for Catholicism against Puritanism; Parson Hawthyn strives to reach everyone regardless of their faith, or lack of, for Christ; Froniga attempts to keep both the Romany pagan traditions while following the Puritan faith and loving a Catholic; Mother Skipton is sunk so deep in evil that all feel it is hopeless for her (except Parson Hawthyn); Margaret, Will, and Jenny just follow after Robert.
He neverloses men's love though he does at times break their hearts....the kinglived and dreamed his dreams.
Mother Skipton, the 'black witch' in the story, believes herself too far gone into evil to have any hope for a better life.“There was a long silence and then Mother Skipton said in cold misery, “It is too late.”“Why did you come to church on Christmas Day?” asked Froniga.“How do you know I did that?” demanded Mother Skipton.“I saw you going away,” said Froniga.
I first read this book as a teenager, because it features three things I was really interested in at the time: gypsies, herbalism, and the English Civil War. One of the main reasons for the war was the clash between different religious beliefs at the time, and the main characters reflect this struggle.
Both of them are hiding secrets, as slowly a tale of love and courage, treachery and betrayal unfolds.
The pace can be a bit slow at times compared with more modern books, but I loved it just as much the second time round as I did the first time.
Not my favorite Goudge book, but then I am humbled to have read any of them so maybe I should just shut up.
Not yet.A good read with part of the British civil war as the background, middle ground, and foreground, sometimes all three at once.
Deeply humane, emotional, and Christian.
Don't be fooled by the bits of magic and Tarot cards, this is a book about God, mercy, and love and how redemption can be reached for.
Which is how a Goudge book affects me.I am supremely thankful that she was able to write the books she did.
"Romantic tale" does not begin to describe this book. That's like calling Oedipus Rex a detective story. The characters are rich and complex. Modern people can related to them, and yet it stays true to the spirit of the 1640's. The English Civil Wars set the stage for so many enlightenment ideas, and led, 130-0dd years later, to the American Revolution. This book is unbeatable drama.
Beautifully written somewhat Victorian style. Not fast-paced, bucolic setting, a bit Thomas Hardy but I enjoyed it. I am a big fan of Victoria literature so this isn’t necessarily a book for everyone.
I love this author- this book was a pleasant surprise as I hadn't encountered it before in my search for all things Goudge. I had no idea when I picked it up that it would dovetail so beautifully with the history we were currently studying. Not all things are as they seem...
I LOVED Froniga but didn't care nearly enough for anyone else. There were no standout quotes or passages for me this time, and I also ended up skipping over the war bits.... sorry, EG!
One of THE BEST works of historical fiction I have ever read. So beautifully written, such thought and care taken. Such a good book.
Though Goudge published THE WHITE WITCH first in 1958 in England, the book channels an earlier writing era in its atmosphere, description, and sentence style.
In addition to the fictional characters, readers will recognize names of actual historical places, events, and figures such as Oliver Cromwell and the Royal family.In the battle of good vs evil, there is a counter to Froniga, the white, or good, witch, called Mother Skipton who channels spells from the dark side -- at least, until Parson Hawthyn allies himself in a spiritual way with her in an effort to rescue her soul.
The story revolves around characters on both sides of the war.
On the puritan side, we have a half-gypsy healer with hidden depths, Froniga the white witch.
Where agents and editors now tell authors to “hook readers in the first paragraph” and “keep the action moving”, The White Witch comes from a writing period in which readers were more patient, and appreciative of detail.
Indeed, the main focus of the book is on inner development and struggle in the characters, man vs.
Speaking of the war, Goudge uses a clever technique to keep the narrative balanced by placing important characters on both sides of the war going on; nor does she favor one over the other.
Although she has a tendency to the mawkish at times, and a rather sentimental view of the past, I am very fond of Elizabeth Goudge.
In this book, and any of her others, you will find people who are made to confront themselves as they truly are - naked in the eyes of God. It is love, gentleness and selflessness that are the 'must haves' in Goudge's books.
Although there is an undeniable sentimentality about her storytelling, there is a firm underlay of thoughtful spirituality and a remarkable challenge to our casual, material, 'self-as-God' world.
