https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764255.Shiloh
I read this as part of my research for a series on West Point graduates in the Civil War. I remember Shelby Foote from his appearances on Ken Burns' Civil War mini-series which I've watched untold number of times.
Shiloh was a particularly bloody battle and Foote captures the feelings and essence of it.
In essence this battle became a bloody slugfest, portending, as Foote says in the mini-series, what many more battles in the Civil War would become.As a West Point graduate it struck me when we had to memorize a piece of plebe trivia: in 55 of 60 battles in the Civil War, West Pointers commanded both sides.
If you like Shelby Foote the man, his slow Southern drawl, his humor and scholarship all wrapped up in one, you'll like this book. Truth and beauty at their single-hearted best. Books like this make my heart beat faster, they take my breath away.
Shelby Foote’s novel Shiloh was published in 1952, but Civil War aficionados will notice a striking technical similarity to Michael Shaara’s 1974 Gettysburg novel The Killer Angels.
Since Foote belatedly gained his largest audience after his participation in Ken Burns’ Civil War series in 1990, many readers will have experienced Shaara’s novel first.
A book about war to be read by men ought to tell what each…saw in our own little corner.” Shiloh is a work of imaginative fiction that relies on the evocative power of its medium; readers seeking a more comprehensive account of the battle will need to refer to other sources.
For a historical novel, that can be a bit dicey, since the novelist is wrapping a lot of details in some fictional gauze.
This occurs a few times in Shiloh, but Foote's a fine writer, and for the most part the novel works due to his method of storytelling via a number of voices -- both North and South -- at various times and places during the battle.
But the war would go on, and guys like Grant, Sherman, and Forrest were in it for the long haul.200 Recruits Wanted!I will receive 200 able men if they will present themselves at my headquarters by the first of June with good horse and gun.
The Young Lions and Battle Cry came out shortly before or after Shiloh, but they were World War II novels written in the idiom of the time.
Shiloh is written in the plainer English we associate with Civil War diaries.I somehow missed out on the Ken Burns hoopla of almost 20 years ago, a phenomenon that brought Foote out of relative obscurity.
Having re-read Shiloh, I want to go an get Burn's Civil War documentary and see what I missed.
After a quick reread to refresh myself on the progression of the war up to the end of the first volume I'll be diving into the second volume and I thought reading this relatively short novel would be a good way to whet my appetite.
Foote does these men a great service by making the entire book about them; when the Generals are involved, it's so we know more about how these men viewed their commanders.
Shelby Foote is the author of the magnificent three-volume The Civil War: A Narrative. He also wrote a historical novel about the Battle of Shiloh with Shiloh. This is a pointillist work, looking at the battle from the point of view of four Confederate and three Union participants, based on actual historical records. There are interesting portraits of Albert Sidney Johnston (killed early in the battle), Ulysses S. Grant, William Tecumseh Sherman, and -- most of all -- Nathan Bedford Forrest, the most brilliant cavalry commander on either side during the Civil War.
According to Foote, he wrote this novel with the battle itself as the protagonist, and the characters in the story are combatants from both sides, ranging from lowly privates who are still wet-behind-the-ears to high-ranking officers.The novel consists of some fictional characters, but the author (a renowned historian of the Civil War) uses diaries and official histories – particularly where historical participants are involved – to recreate dialogue and action.
I finished reading Mr. Foote's book a few hours before visiting the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park in Georgia.
Although I did not plan it that way, I could not have picked a more fitting occasion.
As my friend Mike and I walked the grounds of the battlefields at Kennesaw Mountain and nearby Cheatham Hill, Shiloh was very much on my mind.
Mr. Foote's first person accounts of the action in and around Shiloh, Tennessee in the spring of 1862 brought the protagonists to life.
Although Shiloh is a fictitious book, it reads like a factual diary.
The essence of Shelby Foote's book Shiloh is summed up by one of his narrators, Corporal Blake, who speaking to the men in his squad says,"books about war were written to be read by God Almighty, because no one but God ever saw it that way.
A book about war, to be read by men, ought to tell what each of the twelve of us saw in our own little corner.
They are all either common soldiers or young junior officers with no voice in the planning of strategy or authority to direct its execution.Because of Foote's choice of narrators, it proved difficult to include certain background information about the commanders of the armies that fought the battle.
Shiloh is a hard-history fiction, as hard-history as they get.
In fact, the only thing that keeps it from being an anecdotal history such as Walter Lord's A Night to Remember is that Foote tells it as narrated by fictional characters who are composites of real ones.
As he says at the end of the book, his characters are fictional but everything they do or see was done or said by some real person on that bloody battlefield.I only mark it down from perfect because it is short enough to feel a bit sketchy.
In 1952, Shelby Foote, wrote this historical novel before he turned to narrative history in the grandest style in his magisterial three volume account of the civil war.
In this slender novel, Foote, writes in six segments an account of the battle as it progresses from the view-point of three confederates and three union soldiers.
In one searing scene a confederate private charges the union lines with his bayonet which lodges under the chin and into the skull of a union soldier where it gets stuck.
The private slides away without his gun and his arm shattered.
It is based on the 'as-it-were' reports of a number of participants in the battle from both the Union and the Confederate sides.
The novel strives for as close to historical accuracy as is possible and provides a template for other novels based on Civil war battles, most famously 'The Killer Angels'.
'At first you will make headway, but as your limited resources begin to fail - shut out from the markets of Europe as you will be - your cause will begin to wane.
If your people will but stop and think, they must see that in the end you'll surely fail.'
Shelby Foote is without question my favorite part of Ken Burns's Civil War series.
If you feel the same way this is the Shelby Foote book you should read first.Shiloh has so many great moments mentioned in the film: Albert Sydney Johnston saying "Tonight we will water our horses in the Tennessee River," a rumpled U.S. Grant chatting with Sherman under a tree on Sunday night "Well Grant, we've had the devil's own day, haven't we?" "Yes. Lick 'em tomorrow, though," and of course Nathan Bedford Forrest's solo charge into the Union infantry where he escaped by throwing an enemy soldier onto the back of his horse to act as a human shield as he rode away.All these great moments are in there plus so much more - vividly brought to life by Foote's unique combination of Civil War knowledge and talent for first person narrative.
For a clearer understanding of how the battle unfolded, and why it unfolded the way it did, read an actual history of the battle at Shiloh; there are many good ones available.
In fact, being familiar with this battle before reading Foote's novel is probably a good idea; I likely would have been a little confused or less engaged with the story if I weren't already familiar with the events and the general officers.
Anyhow, Shelby Foote is a gifted and evocative writer overall, and if you like Civil War history, you may enjoy this novel.
Shelby Foote's "Shiloh: A Novel" is a unique telling of the Battle of Shiloh in April 1862 during America's Civil War. Told from the perspective of six different soldiers from both north and south, the reader can glimpse into lives of Civil War soldiers heading into battle.
The sense of urgency, the mounting fear, and the human and animal carnage are vividly portrayed.
I recommend this book to anyone looking to experience what it was like to be a Civil War soldier or for anyone with a desire to learn about battlefield tactics during the time period.
This story was set at the battle of Shiloh which at the time was the bloodiest battle ever fought by the United States.
The story follows several people in both the Union and Confederate armies and gives a description of the two days of battle from different view points.
The one complaint that I had was that I had a hard time following all of the characters because there were so many.
I also felt that the author may have been a little biased to the south’s position but that is not so much of a complaint as an observation.
This is the novel that launched a 1,000+ pages of prose.
If you have not read Foote's The Civil War, or any of its components that have been published since the 1990s, and want to find out if it is worth the time and effort to do so you could do worse than to start with this work.
The novel mainly recounts the action of the two day battle, and provides us the thoughts of the common soldier and junior officers.
The chaos and uncertainty of the battle are aptly portrayed and at the end we know, along with some of the characters, that this would not be a "short war."
This was a pretty graphic story of the battle at Shiloh, as told by officers and illiterate foot soldiers, heroes and cowards. I think this is the most personal, bloody description of this two day battle. It's easy to tell that Mr. Foote had done his research, as his descriptions of the lay of the land and trails and roads, hills, etc., are well defined. I think Mr. Foote is known as an expert on the Civil War. I enjoyed this short story.
Shelby Foote is the guy you saw doing all that great commentary in Ken Burns "The Civil War" His massive three volume history of the Civil War is brilliant, but his much slimmer fictional account of the battle of Shiloh, one of the Civil War's greatest slaughters, is really good. It tells the story through the eyes of the participants, none of whom can see the big pictures. The characters are in turns shocked, exhilarated, stunned, and finally left wondering just what the hell just happened.
Foote breaks the battle down into its parts, taking different characters to describe their specific role and dealing with other issues of the war like slavery and secession, abolitionism and union. Foote covers the few days before and after the battle drawing its prelude drama and its aftermath in the cost of human lives.
a pleasure to read. foote is our modern homer
Many of the encounters that Foote describes in this book, he also recounts in his extensive interviews on Ken Burns incomparable Civil War series.
I feel that the great Civil War novel is "The Killer Angels" which recounts Gettysburg and an entirely different moment in the war.
I would recommend as a book to learn a battle that often plays second fiddle to Gettysburg, but an important role in the manner in which the rest of the war was carried out.
Ironically, Shiloh means heavenly place but this place was just pure hell for all the narrators.Foote provides brief biographies of Generals U.S. Grant and A.J. Johnston, who were the battlefield leaders, from the soldiers' points of view.
Foote, a native Mississippian, has no shame displaying his admiration for Nathan Bedford Forrest, the leader of the Confederate cavalry but later one of the founders of the postwar Ku Klux Klan.
As it happens I've read more about Shiloh than any other Civil War battle and this book depicts it well.
I much preferred Foote's narrative version as he covered much of the same material in an easier to read format.
He does spend the majority of the book focusing on the first day of the battle and the second day lacks the details of the first.Quotes: "Books about war were written to be read by God Almighty, because no one but God ever saw it that way.
A book about war, to be read by men, ought to tell what each of the twelve of us saw in our little corner.
Then it would be the way it was – not to God but to us."
I was truly humbled.Over the past few years in exploring my own experience as a Vietnam veteran, there have emerged some striking felt connections between what we experienced there and what we read of accounts of the First World War and veteran's responses to that experience.
Pity those in command in Europe were too arrogant and hidebound to take note, a price was paid in an ocean of blood.For me, there has also been some strongly felt connection again with the Civil War. Perhaps because of the impact it had on American society, as momentous and pervasive as Vietnam has also become.
The definitive book on the Battle of Shiloh (though told through a historical fiction novel). Shelby Foote breathes history and his writing on the Civil War is the best in my opinion. You get the mechanical details of the battle but you also get the feel of the battle from the Generals down to the foot soldiers. Wonderful novel for the history lover!
Like so many others who have written here, I became familiar with Shelby Foote through the Ken Burns series The Civil War. I was drawn in not only by his folksy style and skill as a raconteur, but especially by the depth of his knowledge, his recall, his ability to piece together a tableau from the Shilohs, the Antietams, and the Bull Runs that helps the listener and reader understand, at least in part, the grandeur and tragedy of the Civil War.I am by no means a Ken Burns expert, but I've always felt that he hit a home run with The Civil War but has only singled with efforts such as Jazz and Baseball.
Unfortunately my enjoyment of this book was prevented by the fact that I read it on an e reader.
Unless you want to flip back through the book ONE PAGE AT A TIME (which takes forever) you might as well forget about it.
Also, the fact that each chapter is from the point of view of individual soldiers, unless you can flip back to the table of contents to see who it is (and which side he is on) the narrative becomes a jumbled treatise on the battle, which can be more easily summarized in three words = WAR IS HELL.
This short Civil War novel from 1952 about the battle of Shiloh resembles the work of Michael and Jeff Shaara in one sense: its sharing of perspectives across the battle lines and the story as told through the eyes of those going through it.
Unlike the Shaaras, Foote doesn't use the generals as narrators, but rather some of the more obscure figures from aides to foot soldiers, and quite a few more narrators.
Although I like the device, this book reads more like "As I Lay Dying" by Faulkner than it does any Shaara novel.
In the end, I just wasn't drawn in.
