https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1974478.The_Profession_of_Violence
”Although they were obviously identical twins, Reggie was very different--thinner, quicker, with a certain shifty charm. He made most of the conversation--which to tell the truth was slightly heavy going--speaking in a rapid, almost inaudible monotone. I noticed his right hand was bandaged. (He had cut his thumb rather badly murdering Jack ‘the Hat’ McVitie a few weeks earlier.)‘How did you hurt yourself, Mr. Kray?’ I inquired brightly.‘Gardenin’,’ he answered.” John Pearson, the writer of this
He was asked to write this book about Ronnie and Reggie Kray just before the twins were convicted with life sentences.
I know NOTHING!The Twins are identical, but their personalities are very different Reggie is more intelligent and blossoms as a club owner when Ronnie is sent away for a short stretch in the pen.
Pearson also talks about the bond between twins and the fact that even as Reggie would attempt to move their business into more legitimate avenues that Ronnie would always pull him back into the violence.
Rereading this book many years later I can't help but feel that Reggie Kray might have been quite a successful business man without the need to resort to crime in order to achieve what he felt was important in life, wealth and power.
However he was the second half of a demented twin, and Ronnie's life was always going to end in sadness and violence.
Added to this mix we have the highly intelligent Inspector "Nipper" Read determined to see the bad guys brought to justice and peace restored to the streets of London.
Ron told Reggie two days after he'd done it, and Reggie didn't tell anyone until many years later.When the twins were put away, the book talks a lot of the bond that identical twins share.
Five years after his death, Reggie died of cancer.I can't really say for sure how much of a bond these twins had but, like I said in the beginning of my review, I'm an identical twin and there is no deeper loyalty than to your identical twin.I can't really say for other people, but I haven't been this excited for a movie in a really long time.
It's so well written I didn't want the book to end.So I reach the end of the book and decide I have got to know more, I do my research and write a letter to Ronny Kray in Broadmore, He forwards my letter to Reggie who wrote me a wonderful personal letter.
Sadly both brothers became increasingly ill with cancer, once Ron passed away, Reggie lost his drive to go forward with the book, but continued to send me letters.
Having watched Legend and found its premise fascinating, but its execution lacking, I was interested in reading more about the history of the Kray twins. Pearson's book is a very barefaced account - the Krays are interesting more for their rise than their fall, and after the initial excitement it's very much repetitive back-and-forth. It's not really Pearson's fault that the Kray history operates this way but still a little disappointing.
I openly admit to reading this so I'd have some background on the upcoming Tom Hardy movie "Legend". The trailer makes it look Hollywood-slick in London, but I wanted to get a feel for the Kray twins as I'm an American and had never heard of them.This was an interesting look at twins and asked some interesting questions.
Reggie and Ronnie Kray ruled London's 1960s gangland with a ruthlessness and viciousness that shocks, even today.In the Introduction, John Pearson writes about meeting the Twins.
They wanted him to write the true story of the Kray Twins.'So much rubbish gets written about our sort of people that me an' Ron both think it's time the truth was told for once.'Before Pearson was done doing his research it was obvious that the book the Twins wanted written, with their version of the truth, was not possible.
Really enjoyed this, was very interesting to look into East End history and gangsters. It's a topic that is particularly fascinating to me as my Nan's side of the family are richardsons from the area, the rival gang of the Kray brothers. I am curious as to whether we were related to them or our close proximity to them in the area during the period was coincidence. Will definitely investigate this further :)
I have always been interested in the Krays. I was born and raised in Bermondsey and knew of the Krays and the Richardson gang, as I was in my early teens. There were one or two places that I wasn't allowed to hang around back then. Having recently seen the latest movie on the Kray Twins, I decided to purchase the book. The book was all as good as the movie! Recommended.
This book describes the rise and fall of two London gangsters.I'm not sure how much of the detail in this book was true, but it was fascinating (in a macabre way) and disturbing how ruthless / viscous individuals can prosper through fear.
I would recommend this book to anyone who has even the slightest curiosity about the real story behind the Kray twins.This book is fantastic.
I was prompted to read this after seeing the trailer for Universal and Studio Canal's upcoming film Legend based upon this book and the true story of the rise and fall of London's most infamous and successful gangsters, Ronald and Reginald Kray, starring Tom Hardy as both the twins.
Or if you're simply intrigued by gangsters and their lifestyle, then the Krays are definitely the ones to read about."Although they were obviously identical twins, Reggie was very different--thinner, quicker, with a certain shifty charm.
‘Gardenin’,’ he answered.” - John Pearson, Profession of Violence: Rise and Fall of the Kray Twins
This is a minor point but one that should be pointed out to anybody that might want to learn the full story of the Kray Twins and their gangland empire.That's not to say that this is not an excellent book.
The capture of the twins is also wonderfully written and provides a ending that will have you turning every page despite knowing the outcome.All in all this was a good book about two very bad men but it is a book that should be passed over in favor of the other more recently updated version by the same author because that would give the closure that the reader deserves.
In terms of a biography, the story of the Kray twins is pretty interesting, although what I found most fascinating was the relationship between them and how this affected them, and each of their lives individually.
The most interesting aspect for me was that they were born identical twins, but due to mental illness, an early prison stay and other factors affecting just one of them, after their teens they deviated significantly in other areas.
However, this book was not strictly a biography, I suppose: at the very beginning and end the author attempts to sandwich it with two wafer-thin explanations for the twins' use of violence and its ends.
I grew up just north of the main Bethnal Green Road in Norah Street.
The Kray twins grew up just south of the main Bethnal Green road in Vallence Road.
The bodies of a few victims have still not been found (the legend that they were somewhere embeded in the foundations of various motorways in the eastern part of London - who knows).They had no scruples and so there have been at least two cinema films made about them and countless books written.
I put Bethnal Green behind me in 1966 when the Krays were in full operation with their gang.
The Kray twins were 'the original East End villains', ruling London's East End of the 1950's and 60's .
Born in 1933 in Hoxton, East London, from an early age, they were involved in armed robberies, arson, protection rackets, violent assaults including torture and finally, murders.
The book outlines their early life including information on their parents and grandparents and their rise through the ranks of the criminals of London's East End. There were many things I didn't know - not having read a lot about them before - e.g. that Ronnie suffered from paranoid schizophrenia, Ronnie being bisexual which he was apparently quite open about and despite general hostility in society towars gays at the time, he was accepted within the criminal world as such.
The truth behind Martina Cole's fiction.
I was amazed to learn that celebrities hung out with gangsters there just as they did here in America.
But alas even gangsters have become tattle tales, or snitches as it were.
Which is eerily similar to policy in Nazi Germany where you not only had to fear the Geheime Staatspolizei but your neighbors as well.
Which is not surprising since we also instituted other Nazi policies like preemptive strike, Division of Homeland Security and the Patriot Act just like Hitler did after the Reichstag was burned down by "communist terrorists".
While visiting do Londoners what Londoners do - and that was to track down every book I can find on the Twin Rulers of East London - and eventually West London - the mighty Kray Twins.
The Krays were very much part of the London 60's culture as David Bailey, The Beatles, Andrew Loog Oldham, The Stones, Simon Napier-Bell and others.
Basically unknown in the States, The Krays are pretty much iconic figures in British culture.
He captures the 'iconic' state of the Twins, and describes their home life and background where one can basically taste the dust and dirt of post-war London.
He goes out of his way to condemn their crimes, but you can hear the admiration he had for these two men.
I was drawn to this novel because I saw an episode of "Whitechapel" on the BBC America dealing with the London "mob" and the Kray's in particular.
Before this, I had never heard of them, even though they had a reign of terror over the Eastend and eventually the Westend of London for over a decade.
A good introduction to the world of the Kray's.
It has whet my appitite for more information on the crime and more importantly the life of these men.


I had to read this non-fiction history of the violent and unstable twin career criminals to cleanse my mind of the fantasy that is Little Legs Muscleman Of Soho. The author covers the rise of the twins from boxing and delinquency to protection rackets, nightclub proprietorship, and a pinnacle of international stock certificate scams in league with elements of the American mafia. The book is recent enough to discuss the middle-aged brothers' acclimation to prison life.
I've always found the Kray twins very interesting, and this book perfectly recounts their rise and fall. It doesn't glamourise them but also doesn't shy away from talking about their (few) redeeming qualities such as their loyalty to each other, particularly Reggie's loyalty to Ronnie, which makes for a more factual story if that makes sense. You feel that nothing has been embellished to make them seem worse than they were, and that they actually were that awful.I really enjoyed the insight that we got into Nipper Reed's eventual take down of the twins.
I absolutely loved this book. I became interested in learning more about the Krays following the release of Legend and this book did not disappoint. Although feared by many during their reign, the twins are incredibly fascinating and it is quite incredible the things they got away with over quite a long span of time before their arrest.A must read for fans of crime, British crime or just someone who has a fascination with these famous brothers.
I found this book interesting but as it's told from a third party perspective it's a bit stale... didn't quite capture me and at times I found it a bit of a slow read. Although the twins are interesting themselves I didn't find the book very captivating... wasn't as in depth as I thought it would be. Almost like a newspaper story, didn't quite have a capturing story just the facts laid out... I thought I'd enjoy the book more than I did. Meh.
Pearson shows his writing pedigree forging this page-turner narrative in the half-light of the Kray's London with its monstrous tangle of truths, half-truths, propaganda and legend.His work represents probably the clearest window there will ever be on the brothers' criminal career and legacy, but as it is not a work of fiction and the Krays were very real, highly complex and secretive people, do not expect a coup de grâce denouement.
Good book. However I disagree with author on what the message of this book is but that may possibly be subjective. Will probably read more books about the twins as they prove to be sadistically entertaining, even if only for shock value. Found the parts related to mental health very interesting and morose.
"The violent will always feed on the corrupt". If you begin reading this book and decide it's not for you, read the postscript. It puts the whole saga in a new light -- the personal cost to author John Pearson and the extent of corruption in British politics. This is a story, well told, about despicable human beings. And the Krays aren't the worst.
Commissioned as an official biography before the subjects were jailed but it's far from being a whitewash. The author admits to liking some of the henchmen who helped with his research while also being critical of their various activities and there's no prurience in his account of how the Krays went about their business.
This was a brilliant novel, in that it did not romanticise, or glamorise anything that the Kray's did. It was also very factual, which is something I did enjoy too: but has meant that I have it a 3 star rating as it got very boring and drab after reading it for a while. I did complete it, and did enjoy it, but wouldn't necessarily recommend it.
