https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2143538.Fair_Stood_the_Wind_for_France
I’ve read endless novels about the war but this was one of the most reflective, one which really tried to take a singular human view of the cataclysmic world events.
While it affirmed that life goes on, and even flourishes in such circumstances, that the human spirit can triumph in adversity, it also heavily underlined the “agony of all that was happening in the world”.
Reading it, you felt that living through the war threw people into a life that couldn’t be lived under any other circumstances, where things were appreciated anew and ordinary people were forced to think about these big themes and live their way through them.
This is not your typical World War II novel. It doesn't focus on the brutality and the atrocities that were so much a part of the war. It's a very personal story, a story of compassion, bravery, and love. It's the story of British pilot John Franklin, whose plane was shot down in occupied France, and Francoise, the daughter of a French farmer who hid Franklin and his mates from the Germans. It's the story of bravery and sacrifice by Francoise's family, and of the love that grows between Franklin and Francoise. Just a very enjoyable read.
But: Bates' presentation of women really angered me.Françoise is the young French girl who comes to Franklin's rescue - the rest you can figure out, I'm sure.
The determiner is degrading, especially when it is clear that Françoise has an overwhelming sense of humanity.So, despite the language barrier (somewhat compromised by Franklin's rusty yet serviceable French) he decides that he's irrevocably in love with "the girl".
I will always be angered by authors that champion a brave woman's sexual appeal to a greater extent than her courage.
Although the overall tone is ultimately uplifting, my overwhelming sentiment upon finishing the novel was poised somewhere between disappointment and disgust at Franklin's conduct.
As the story progresses, the reader (and in fact the pilot himself) grows to admire, respect, and even love this French family for their unshakeable faith and courage in spite of the horrors that they and their friends and neighbours had endured.The ending did not come as a surprise to me, and to some readers it may seem like a disappointment, perhaps slightly "too" happy.
And it is probably the kind of ending which appealed to the reading public in 1944!I would recommend this novel very highly to readers who enjoy that era of gentle but captivating literature.
This is one of those novels that was difficult for me to rate. The writing was wonderful at times. My measured view is a four, but it was an engrossing, sensitive, thoughtful portrayal of the Second World War and the lives of those caught up in desperate times.
A very moving account of war torn France.Beautifully written, a compelling tale of love and redemption set against the horrors of war!
A romance during wartime in occupied France.
A British pilot crashes his plane and he and his crew set off across the countryside.
A French family takes them in and helps; this family includes a young woman who falls in love with the pilot and he with her.
It is a slow moving book but very tense.
Romance set against death and grief.
Wartime set against the natural beauty of the French countryside.
The tension builds to a crescendo by the end and it has a very powerful and moving ending.
Altogether a very good book.
From BBC radio 4 - Classical Serial:Dramatisation by Maddy Fredericks of HE Bates' classic tale of danger, suspense and romance in Second World War France.When a British aircrew ditch over Occupied territory in the summer of 1942, injury and suspicion dog their attempts to survive and escape.
A surprisingly beautiful, bittersweet novel that was moving and enjoyableGot this in a charity second hand book sale years ago, but never read it because World War 2, romance and planes have never been my favourite fiction themes.
I had expected a novel written in wartime to be painfully jingoistic and motivational in that odd "come through adversity to win the war over the culturally less deserving enemy" style.
It's an intensely personal romance against the odds of the suffering, fear and chaos that comes from war.
It's such a long time since I read this, I can't remember much detail! I bought it as my husband was playing the role of navigator in the TV adaptation. I was working for his agent at the time, and when I heard he'd got the part, I bought the book for him as a present. When I got home and he looked questioningly at me, I said "You've got the part!". Always nice to be able to tell an actor they've got work!
Fair Stood the Wind for France is an astonishing novel. It wasn't the run-of-the-mill war novel I was expecting at all, but a lyrical, lovely tale of unlikely love. It grapples with themes of loss, pain, faith and sacrifice. And the writing! From Bates' dreamy opening passage, I was enthralled.My full review is, as always, on my blog, Book to the Future:http://booktothefuture.com.au/?p=1968
The suspense begins early on when John Franklin, the young British airman who is the protagonist of this story, realizes that his plane has malfunctioned forcing him to bring it down in a French field.
He felt his left arm strike something sharp, with sickening force, and then the moon break again in his face with bloody and glassy splinters in a moment beyond which there was no remembering.“The reader can probably predict what happens next: Franklin and his crew make it to a farmhouse in the country where they are hidden and kept safe for a time until false papers can be obtained in order for them to be smuggled back to England.
P
I became a fan of H.E. following the TV adaptation of his 'Love for Lydia' in the late '70's - curled up with my girlfriend on her parents'sofa, the lyrical romance of it chimed with the way I felt at the time.
A couple of years later, ejected from the sofa, I gloomily devoured more of Bates' lushly melancholic rural romances, but when it came to the wartime novels I baulked, hence this novel stayed on my shelf for over thirty years.
Taking it down a couple of days ago I tried really hard to like it but ultimately didn't get on with the Boys' Own aspect of the story.
A love story, an adventure story, the effects of WWII, a gripping thriller, a comrade’s poignant sacrifice.
All rolled up into one.Not until the final two pages did I learn the fate of the two main characters.The author, H.
E. Bates, was a Squadron Leader in the R.A.F.
Some of his published works then bore the pseudonym “Flying Officer X”.Fair Stood the Wind for France was published a year before VE Day. The war was still raging as Bates wrote his story.Maybe that explains why I felt like I was there with the fallen pilot, Franklin, and his struggles.
It all felt very real to me.Remarkable.
Very engaging story. Review to come!
Written in 1944, this is the account of a pilot`s crash landing and subsequent escape from occupied France.
He is badly injured and he and his four man crew set off walking west.
They arrive at a farm where the people are friendly and help.
There is a girl and the inevitable happens, they fall in love.
The complications because of his arm are enormous and the French deciding to riot in the nearby town don`t help!!
It is historically interesting because the escape route eventually takes them through Vichy France, about which I know very little.
This is the second WWII novel by Bates that I've read and both have been great reads and somewhat different from the usual characters and plots. He seems to be an author with an abundance of creativity, insight, and sympathy. This was a lovely adventure/romance about loyalty, faith, courage, and humanity.
I don't feel qualified to write a review of this book. HE Bates is suvh a master, it feels wrong even to try. I won't. I'll just say it's wonderful.
John Franklin is an English pilot who crashes his plane into occupied France and finds refuge for himself and four sergeants at a nearby farm.
Francoise is a smart, young French girl who faces all kinds of adversity, including Nazis, in that awesome French insouciant way, and she isn't at all fazed when five dirty Englishmen pop out of the field while she's feeding her chickens.
A lot does happen -- there is the plane crash, Franklin must sneak into town in plain view of the Nazis, there is some gruesome medical stuff, a family tragedy, the escape, and the Nazis being Nazis -- but the book itself is not action-packed.
Pretty standard war novel stuff in short, and probably Hemingway influenced - people and places are frequently "fine" and "good".Not to be cynical, but one of the notable things about this kind of book is the huge number that were inspired by the two world wars and the paucity of anything resembling this sensibility since - either those wars were genuinely more noble or the glamorization of war is simply no longer possible (perhaps for the best).
This book is an absolute gem!
I adore novels set in WWII, and the fact that this was written while the war still was raging makes it unique!
The characters and the story are quite endearing.I just reread this book and it was like visiting with an old friend, even more charming and endearing than I remembered!
I absolutely adore this book and these characters.
The first reading made me want to know more about wartime France and the everyday people of the resistance.
Franklin is dependent on a farming family for his survival and for his escape from the Nazis that appear unpredictably in the small French village.
The story of his amputation and the girl who helps him is tense, his hiding in a mill loft and the French scene of a vineyard and river.
The second part of the book is about his escape and his growing commitment to the girl, as he usually refers to her.
Bates' strong style and characters kept me in the story while he showed Franklin's slips as a young pilot who would never fly again.
Does anyone else remember an obscure mid-nineties British indie song that shared the title of this book, and/or featured it as a lyric, probably in the chorus?It had a jaunty, upbeat but slightly fey sound, quite smooth production and a male singer whose voice wasn't very deep or full.
It's not the same as the folk song 'Fair Stood the Wind' (but that might have been a reference somewhere along the line).
It felt like it was a little bit of a struggle to get the lines to scan and fit the tune.
I picked this up looking for some wartime English sentimentality and thought this would be a good choice, given my weakness for Bates's post-war England of The Darling Buds of May series.One of its strengths is the sense of place afforded by the loving description of the French landscape.
Unfortunately I couldn't quite buy the relationships between the characters, including the central one between the protagonist and his love-interest.
The ending is also a low point.Nevertheless, there were interesting moments of suspense and insight into how the main character deals with his situation (view spoiler)[(ultimately, an amputated arm) (hide spoiler)] mentally, and these made it worth the read.
Badly injured, John Franklin is hidden by a French family at their remote farmhouse, which puts them and the daughter who he falls in love with at terrible risk.
It is a story of fear, bravery, betrayal and the raw strength of love.HE Bates was commissioned by the RAF and, due to his first-hand experience, his war-time novels show how it was to live through such perilous times.
I read him because I want to be a better writer, and I love his sparkling Larkin novels for their sheer raucous entertainment.
I first read this when I was about seventeen.
I was going through a period of reading lots of books about the war and FSTWFF was lent to me by my English teacher.
It certainly changed my perspective about war books and from then on anything that had cardboard characters and transparent storylines I found disappointing.
This Bates novel was deep, poignant, haunting and exciting.
I read it again a few years ago and though the style is a little dated now it's still a superb story.
I'm a great fan of H.E. Bates' books but FSTWFF isn't my favourite - try The Purple Plain, or The Four Beauties.
"Because of his tears the mountains were dazzling in the sun." Nicely written ala Hemingway. Downed pilot falls in love with French resistance girl who helps him.  Will he get back to England alive? The sex scenes (1944) probably torrid for the day are unintentionally amusing now. Skillful prose carries makes this novel something more than a basic chase/escape story. And the protagonist is a wounded warrior, but I won't give any more away.
I bought this book because the price was right and I thought it was about sailing ships. The edition I read was a hardback from the 1940's. The book is about a British aircrew that crash lands south of Paris and of their travails in trying to escape occupied France. The book is suspenseful, The pilot's arm is injured and infected. Crewmen and Partisans are constantly in danger from the occupation forces. There is romance. There is the brutality of war. The book was well written
A WW2 bomber crash lands in France and this tale is full of tension as the crew seek shelter, food and the dream of escaping back to Great Britain. Their encounter with a French family reflects the tensions that existed in an occupied country. For those who enjoy stories about WW2 it will provide you with a very satisfying read.
