https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11041.Delta_of_Venus
Delta of Venus is far sexier than Little Birds to be sure, but the beauty of Nin is that no matter how racy she gets, it's never distasteful or off-putting like a lot of erotica can be, just for the sake of shock value.
Nin's erotica is sensual not only because of the sex that the characters are engaging in, but because the entire time you're reading you're reminded that Nin was writing in the 1930s, when sex was relatively freer than the puritanical decades before, but not nearly as free as the sex we know (and are numb to) today.
That doesn't change the fact that the genre of erotica is largely met with titters and contempt when it isn't banned outright, and the majority of its literature is filled with connotations of unrealistic sexual dynamics, borderline abusive situations, and frankly just a lot of bad writing.When it comes to sociocultural progress, I see no catalyst more powerful than that of literature, especially literature that survives and thrives for centuries well into present times.
Out of every genre of literature, the least likely to be taught in classrooms is that of erotica.
I'm thinking John Cleland, Pierre Louÿs, et hundreds of al.Nin always prompted a lot of varied reactions from other women, some thinking, Finally someone is saying it, and others being more like, Whoa there, speak for yourself, sister.
Of course in real life Anaïs Nin was as mad as a box of frogs, but she was the right person at the right time and I like a lot of what's in here – as the reviews show, it still has the power to challenge people today, when you might think the whole thing would have seemed rather passé.‘Don't burn someone's genitals...it is NOT OK,’ says one reviewer earnestly.
If you think you'll start reading this all respectable in your best readerly librarian's glasses, then a few pages in, change into "something more comfortable", and finish in dire need of the coldest shower ever, you're probably wrong.
(No, I'm not even exaggerating.)I read this collection slowly, one story per week, which I think is the best way to read Nin's work.
I think we continue to read Anais Nin's work because yes, she was one of the first women to write this way.
As one of her characters says:'Why do women make such a secret and mystery of it all?
I think Nin's stories do all these things.
Extremely good stuff: from the pure writing, the interweaving themes and characters and the way that the individual stories make up a much grander story of sexuality, right down the purely expert and sensual eroticism of the sex acts themselves.
I've never read better, but I'll admit that most of what I've read has really been quite horrible.Even so, I'm amazed at how sensual she can turn all these kinds of turns, or even the direction she takes them.
So many of my own sensibilities were shocked and disturbed as I read a few particularly difficult scenes, but as a whole, the entire book was truly amazing.
And it disturbed me early on with the mention of children, oh God, this better not be anything like 120 Days of Sodom!, thankfully not, what follows are deeply engaging chronicles of interconnected sexual episodes, which I have to say took me by surprise as to just how explicit they were.
The last third I felt it's strongest point.For me a three star read, but when writing of sex at least the book did feature five star orgasms!.

Here are some examples of the icky ickiness Anais Nin writes about in Delta of Venus.-Dude lays in bed early in the morning, and some kids who live in the house come in and horse play around his room.
There's no doubt that Nin was remarkable--after all, she's female working in a male-dominated industry--but her writing is flat and stale (kinda like this review).
Maybe I set my expectations too high...Here's the blurb on the back of the book (this edition published in the 1970s):Thirty-five years ago, Anais Nin created the female language for sexuality.
And it reveals Anais Nin as a woman ahead of her time.Well Mr.
In one story a woman has an erotic opium experience, and it's pretty hot I guess, and then suddenly it's like (view spoiler)["And then the guy almost slashed her vagina up because he was a psycho!
The end." (hide spoiler)] Which is basically just Nin (An-eye-EESS NEEN) saying "Ha ha, I killed your boner." In the first story, a dashing guy who's basically The Most Interesting Man in the World from the Dos Equis commercials is bored by normal sex and starts seeking out increasingly perverse experiences.
AUTHOR WEBCAM!!- Hi there… my name’s Anais, what’s yours?- Oh, er… hi Anais! My name’s Pau---- Manny. My name is Manny.- Hi Manny. How are you tonight?- Oh I'm fine thank you. Er.... you have a great laptop there.- Why thank you! It’s a Lenovo Ideapad. Do you think it looks cute?- Oh…yes.- You should see the things I can do with it.- Mm hmmm.- What would you like to see me do Manny? Would you like to see me … type? Or…correct a manuscript? Do you want me to call my publisher? I can complain abou
My name’s Pau---- Manny.
Do you think it looks cute?-	Oh…yes.-	You should see the things I can do with it.-	Mm hmmm.-	What would you like to see me do Manny?
Do you want me to call my publisher?
You know - if you have a publisher we could complain together.-	Could you… could you compose some erotica right now?-	Of course I could, Manny!
Or would you like it to be urgent, short, sharp, like a James Ellroy sex doll, no word over four letters?-	Please… just do what you feel you’re into, Anais.-	Why thank you Manny, you’re a gentleman.
What is the difference between porn and erotica? Somebody much wittier than me said it was the lighting, but I honestly don't know.
No rating.
For all the fuss made in the introduction about writing from a woman’s perspective, and capturing the emotional and sensual aspects of sex, I did not feel this intention was executed particularly well.
Overall, I wasn’t impressed with the writing from a literary standpoint (which I recognise is not the primary objective).I do appreciate the range of themes and perspectives presented in this collection, some of which are genuinely bizarre and shocking.
There is a lot of variety, and there’s likely to be something for everyone here both to arouse and to disgust, though overall, Delta of Venus didn’t really do much for me.
Como siempre he dicho, no soy de leer novela erótica, pero por una vez me apetecía leer algo así sin tener que aguantar a ningún macho alfa de los que abundan en las novelas románticas.
Over a period of years, I tried to find what I could appreciate about Nin's writing. Sure, it was groundbreaking at the time it was written and critically, I guess that's important. It's pretty silly. I imagine college girls trying to copy Dita Von Teese's style read this in a dressing gown, drinking wine on some Urban Outfitters' silk bedspread before going out. That is enough to make me dislike it.
Less Poetry!Most of the stories in "Delta of Venus" were written under a quasi-Oulipean constraint: they were commissioned by a collector of erotica who specified, "Concentrate on sex.
However, "I began to write tongue-in-cheek, to become outlandish, inventive, and so exaggerated that I thought he would realise I was caricaturing sexuality."Back came the response, "Less poetry." The collector was looking for explicit, clinically precise description of sexual activity.Pandora's BoxNin duly complied, within limits, and what we read on the page is the result.
Basically, Its a book about horny people doing Haraam things.Like very, very Haraam things.
Anais Nin, covers a variety of sexual subjects, some of those being exhibitionism, homosexuality, lesbianism, sadomachism and pedophilia.
I have absolutely no preference to any of those subjects, and I feel easy reading about them, all except pedophilia.
Anais Nin, is almost poetic in her writing, sometimes making the reader feel what the characters are feeling, and that takes talent.
I could just tell that Anais Nin wrote this for entertainment and fulfillment for a male, and if you read this, it is highly evident.Nevertheless, I still enjoyed this book, and appreciated the writing style immensely.
Does it even have an essence, or a formula that one can follow and therefore achieve “eroticism”?
I looked for myself, found myself and lost myself countless times between the pages of vastly different books – but never, never in such a powerful way as when I read Anais Nin’s writing on womanhood.
Anais Nin writes a prose worthy of awe that flows through the pages and allures the reader with its elusion.
Knowing this instinctively in yourself helps when reading such great works as this author’s, because you find yourself explained in someone else’s words.
Read at your own risk.Delta of Venus by Anaïs Nin is a collection of erotic short stories.
Seriously amazing short stories.
I haven't technically "read" this book since I keep it on my bedside table and take little nibbles of it when I feel like it.
Raping your children is a whole other thing I don't even want to read about.
But Mathilde wanted to heighten her value by resistance, and she was on her guard when they entered the cabin.This one was a lot more sensual, if not a little terrifying.
Another favourite along with Mathilde.
As I wrote in Volume Three of the Diary, I had a feeling that Pandora’s box contained the mysteries of women’s sensuality, so different from man’s and for which man’s language was inadequate.”Nin’s language is literary but the collection has the feel to me of a let’s throw everything in, including the kitchen sink!
There is certainly a richness to the language and as Nin didn’t intend that they be published, she experiments with the language and with literary devices.
Like this review my feelings about this are mixed and I certainly think I need to read much more Nin to put it in context.
It wasn't until I felt Anaïs' voice echoing inside me that I truly understood & respected what it means to be feminine, to accept, to renew, to hold & nurture, to passionately let go, & in the process become what I always felt a woman should be; warm, dark, fathomless ocean.
Yes it is perverted & some parts are “wrong” & dirty as fuck, but Anaïs in her profound, Piscean way, makes it sacred.
She makes you feel it, gives you a taste of the ocean.Anaïs is a drug.
1. "Mađarski avanturista" - 52. "Matilda" - 53. "Internat" - 54. "Prsten" - 45. "Majorka" - 46. "Umetnici i modeli" - 57. "Lilit" - 48. "Marijana" - 59. "Žena s velom" - 4.25
It is erotica but it is classic and I love everything that have been written so many years ago when I wasn't born yet and people still devour them like they were recently published.It's just that don't read this book straight in just few days.
In her preface of this book written in 1977, Anais Nin said that she was commissioned by an unnamed publisher, only known as "The Collector" to write erotic short stories.
So, Nin did and thus these stories published as a book posthumously after her death.
Group of short stories of erotic genre written in the 40s. Nothing special.
I don't think the book is beautifully written either, and it is not creative at all.
Clearly, Anais Nin tried to be original and perhaps that is why she felt the need to go that far; well, perhaps that should have been expected if we remember that she had an incestuous relationship with her dad, and was married to two guys at the same time.
She wrote it mainly to make some money that she needed desperately, that is why the different stories were not meant to be published but read by a private 'buyer' with a special taste for sex...
Anais Nin and a few of her writer friends were asked by an anonymous wealthy collector to write a series of Erotic short stories for $1.00 per page for his pleasure.
Anais was to omit any warmth, emotion or poetry to her writing and only concentrate on the sex.Even though these restrictions were in place I don’t think I’ve ever read erotica so well written, it was polished, bold and wildly daring.
I could only dabble on a few pages every night.If you have not read Anais Nin and you like erotica, this is a must read.
The people I follow on tumblr seem to absolutely adore Anais Nin and they have reblogged or posted some very choice quotes and excerpts from her writing that made me give into curiosity and borrow some of her works from the library.
A few other times when I’ve tried erotic fiction I end up laughing because the writing is just so cheesy and phrases are so overused; but I don’t think I once laughed in ridiculousness when I read this book.
This book is all about exploring human sexuality, and no matter how shocking/erotic some of the descriptions can be, I thought Nin wrote about it in the most beautiful and engaging way.
(Бях омагьосана и от филма „Henry & June“.) Тук – за мен често липсваше тръпка въпреки непрекъснатото потреперване на жените или мъжете в разказите.- Героите - чисти секс-машини.
Пак повтарям – разнообразни са героите и „изпълненията“, но цялата книга ми се струваше като една седмица затваряне в хотел само за секс – дали няма да омръзне (или аз съм „консерва“)?
Последния разказ направо го зарязах и все пак погледнах последната страница като никога – хм, интересничко беше, но аз вече бях отписала книгата…Отчитам ценността на сборника за 40-те години на миналия век и съм „за“ разширяването на „хоризонтите“.
3.5*I read Delta of Venus in short batches so it took me a few months to finish. I only read from it when I was in a certain mood, I did not feel the need to read it as a novel. I savored it spoon by spoon. It is sensual and poetic. A much better alternative to some of the popular erotica books out there.
