https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5981308-bonk
I liked the bit about women's orgasms.- Guess you don't know much about that.
Her clit was a long way from her vagina, and she never got any vaginal orgasms.- Did her guy have to go down on her then?- Um...
She talked to a bunch of women, and measured how far their clits were from their vaginas, and asked them how sex was for them.
She has some French word that means you're a woman whose clit is a long way from her vagina.
Anyway, the princess found that most téléclitoridienne women didn't enjoy penetrative sex.
This book was laugh out loud funny.I have also discovered that I have a special face that I wear whenever the words URETHRA and EXPANDED or INSERTED are used in the same sentence.
And it was funny and fun – so I am going to recommend it and recommend it highly.The bit I found most interesting was right at the end, where she was talking about tests that were done in the 1970s that found that the people who enjoyed sex the most were homosexual couples – either gay or lesbian.
In fact, it may disturb the mood right out of you.Did you know?
Special pants were designed to make this perpetual-half-mast issue less obvious.Also, apparently a lot of guys are turned on by putting stuff inside the skin of their penises.
Because humans tend to be prudish, for many a year, all studies of sexuality were done by watching other animals doing the bonk.
Unfortunately, this is a very ineffective way of studying HUMAN sexuality, since pigs and monkeys tend to orgasm in a matter of seconds and not derive a lot of enjoyment out of it.
3.5 stars.This was like cup of cocoa sex. Sex is always good but sometimes you can't help hoping it will be over soon and you can have a cup of cocoa, maybe with cream. Marshmallows even. Maybe a sprinkle of cinnamom and some grated chocolate curls. Oh there I go, mind drifted off.Read 13 Dec. 2013 and forgotten about until now. Now what was it reminded me. Friday night. Hopeful. And if not... there is always cocoa.
It's clear she's spent (and thoroughly enjoyed) her time researching the subject, unfortunately the book never really comes together.
Roach never settles in with a clear perspective on her subject and ends up getting lost in the telling.I'm not a huge fan of footnotes, I respect when they are used well but despise when they are used as long tangents for a broken narrative.
Most of the footnotes should have been integrated into the main text as they often feel orphaned from it.The most telling chapter of this book is when Roach goes to Cairo to get insight into sex research in Egypt.
i audiobook'd this, the third feature-length scientific expedition of mary roach.
if you're looking for a forthright and humorous scientific break-down of erotic encounters, the clit, the g-spot, the erection....
roach focuses her special, special attentions on the sex researchers that have changed the landscapes of our bodies and our bedrooms.
along the way, i learned that sex researchers are both flawed and fascinating, and have both the purest and most dubious intentions and methods.
i loved that mary roach talked her husband into having sex with her in a lab for the sake of science.
Mary Roach is always on her game.
She is funny, and her subjects are all so interesting.
But while I enjoyed this book, I think my 3 star rating is mostly my own fault.Because I apparently already knew all the freaky weird details about sex...
like almost all of them covered in this book.
In this case, I guess my love of sexual oddities and all things weird conspired against me because parts of this book felt, dare I say it, boring.
I still love you, Mary Roach, and I'll be listening to Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers very soon.
My second reaction: sadness for the fact that for whatever reason, there are other girls and women who also lack the knowledge of basic sexual biology because, as I lamented in my review of Fifty Shades, the subject is so laced with shame.This book is a little more than basic.
(I mean, maybe you reasoned that out, but nowhere in high school sex ed do they say "here is what makes up vaginal fluid," you know?)Who knew that people could think themselves to orgasm, that orgasms can temporarily relieve the spasms and pains of neurological disorder?
From the ancient Greeks, there developed the idea that women produced their own form of semen, and by the middle ages, there was the recognition that, “Young widows, with no sexual outlet and a consequent log jam of womanly seed, were especially prone to hysteria—or ‘womb fury.’ The notion persisted for centuries.” The method of clinical massage was developed by doctors was outlined in a 6th century medical treatise: Aetios of Amida …outlines tactics for release of the she-semen.
Mary Roach takes her practially-patented whirlwind tour through the world of sex research. And for the most part, it's very fun. And occasionally cringe-inducing. But less so than Stiff, which had me avoiding that book any time I was eating. Bonk never gave me the same problems.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I didn't think she could write a better book than Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers, but I was wrong.
There was very little 'shocking' material.
Roach kept the book very much in the realm of science with just enough humor to make it flow & keep it interesting.
No, what shocked me was our lack of knowledge in this area.Sex is one of the most important parts of our lives.
Government money & review committees make sex studies a very tough sell.
Roach really went all out to write this book.
Mary Roach did a lot of personal investigations; she visited sex researchers to find out what they are up to, how they do research, what are their findings.
In fact, many parts of the book are gross enough to avoid reading on a full stomach.Mary Roach not only focuses on the personalities, but on the science as well.
Also, perhaps little is known because it is a combination of physiology and psychology, mixed together and it is difficult to sort out these two areas.I didn't read this book.
If you haven't read the book yet, and want to, I highly recommend listening to the audiobook!
You might not want to read on.My uncle and I have read all of Mary Roach's books together.
But good." And that was the end of our conversation.This was the kind of book that kept me laughing so hard people around me had to ask, "What, what?" and then I would reiterate some astounding and hilariously written fact about the clitoris or how to appropriately stimulate a pig to prepare her for insemination without stuttering or batting an eyelash.I thought I knew a lot about sex.
Not only has Roach equipped me with fascinating tidbits to share in random conversations, but I actually think it's going to make my sex life better.
to uncover the mysteries of how our reproductive systems work.Roach and her husband even throw in their assistance as test subjects, agreeing to have uncomfortable, sanitary sex in an MRI machine while a kindly doctor watches.
I can only imagine how my husband would react if I asked him to have sex with me in an MRI machine for science.
D: Before impotence was linked with masturbation, a lot of people just thought witches did it, so I suppose the penis torture devices were sort of an improvement, scientifically speaking.
Aside from all the kinky stuff, the real stars of the book are the numerous sex researchers that Roach interviews.
In a few words, this book is poorly written and less than informative.
The information, IF YOU CAN FIND ANY, in this book is mostly trivial and/or useless.
Since they often have nothing to do either with the book's subject or the material on the page at hand, they quickly become first disruptive and then irritating.
After about 30 pages, even the sex jokes become lackluster.
I like a good sex joke as much as the next person but Ms. Roach is not my best friend nor can I deny the fact that this worthless commentary comes at an expensive price.
Mary travelled great distances to watch foreplay between inseminators and sows, voyeuristically spied on mating monkeys, and even went so far as to offer to put a gent's new penile implant to the squeeze test.
Heck, she even recruited her husband to do (it) under observation, becoming a research subject in the process.Her research is exhaustive, and I have to admit I learned a lot in reading this book, not least of which was the existence of a "Fruit Machine" designed to be used by certain federal agencies in Canada to expose and root out homosexuals from the ranks of our military and RCMP.
Mary's delivery is so humorous that this offering is a breeze to read.
Mary Roach, as usual, is drawn to the weird and the wonderful.
A book about sex research could be dry and boring, but not with Ms. Roach at the helm.
He is obviously a guy with a sense of adventure!Sex researchers, both animal and human, were good sports to show off their work in progress or discuss published results.
As stated a couple of time in the book, publicity can sometimes be a hindrance to obtaining research money, so they were either very established researchers or willing to risk the exposure.
Thank you, Mary Roach, for being the obsessive researcher for us.
Not as raunchy as I'd hoped for, but then the subtitle doesn't exactly set you up for raunch. It was my own fault, my own fervid expectation, based on my enjoyment of reading Roach's other books. That said, Roach is never a disappointment.
When two mice (male and female, btw) are bonking, scrumping, hokey-pokeying, whatever, placing a piece of cheese beside them doesn't distract the male.
The one who likes family smut and calls the vagina a "gine?" To her, this book was okay.
I think she wants sex to be like magic- why analyze it and try to see what is behind the curtain?
Her favorite parts described animal sex research (which reminds me, female pigs have clits inside their vaginas.
But we did agree to a new rule- Sisters' book club will only focus on fiction from now on.
Mary Roach is always entertaining - possibly our best living author just for "shit that might be fun to talk about at a party" - but this isn't her best work.The thing that's fun about her is that she gets hands-on with her research.
She visits corpse farms and goes into low-earth orbit.
And there just wasn't as much of that here.
I'm all "I just want to read about Mary Roach fucking things," I know, and why am I complaining?
She nails her husband in an MRI tube!
Which isn't the worst thing in the world, but it's not the best thing either.
A couple of months ago, I read Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers by Mary Roach.
Jackpot!The new book is Bonk: The Curious Coupling of Science and Sex. What could possibly be more fascinating than experiments and research involving dead humans?
Oh, yeah.Early "sex researchers" were inventive, barbaric, and creepy, but as curious in their own ways as Roach is today.
There are methods of "study" that are at least as bad as the worst porn scenario you've ever seen, imagined, or heard about.And who knew there were so many uses for Pyrex?The truly fascinating thing is Roach's absolute dedication to research.
Roach strikes a nice balance between science, history and humor to keep the book interesting and readable.I think that the best of this book – like Stiff – is acknowledging that life, death and sex are all a bit absurd and for that we really should be very grateful.
well, this may not be the book for you.roach focuses her special, special attentions on the sex researchers that have changed the landscapes of our bodies and our bedrooms.
interested to find out which sex researchers had to perform their studies under the cover of nightfall?
~3.5~There's nothing here I didn't already know. Should I be alarmed? Take heed: you can learn a lot about the science of sex from smutty books. Roach is a very engaging writer. She does an incredible amount of research for her books and makes science approachable and FUN. One tidbit; if you need a penis reattached, Thailand is the place to go: Two of the wives flushed the penises down the toilet, forcing their husbands to grope for their lost manhood inside the septic tank. (Incredibly, both we
She does an incredible amount of research for her books and makes science approachable and FUN.
(Incredibly, both were found, cleaned, cleaned some more, and reattached.) More commonly, the women would hurl the penis out the window.
Many rural Thai homes are elevated on pilings, with the family’s pigs, chickens, and ducks tending to mill about seeking shade in the space underneath.
It is not, oddly, the pigs, but rather the ducks, that the castrated Thai must worry about.
In fact if you'd like to have sex ever again and not think about castrations, multiple speculae being put where they shouldn't be, or things being (gah) stretched that had no need to be (gah) then you should really stay away from this book.
Alright, I probably do, but the subject matter is so disconcerting that I really feel like I don't need to know anything more for a good long while.I didn't think I could get any more grossed out after reading Stiff, but surprise!
who knew?this is the kind of fact mary roach loves to ferret out of medical journals and research papers--and then, she loves to create puns and laugh out loud smarty-pants remarks about the sexologists and their crazy ideas and inventions.
Roach visits implant surgeons in taiwan, pig breeders in denmark, 'does it' in an MRI tube in a london hospital, and hangs out with one of the biggest supplier of dildos to the states.
PLUS, there's rats forced to wear polyester pants for a year to see if it cuts into how much action they get.
As I recently noted on Twitter, there is an uncomfortable amount of talk about inserting stuff into bodily orifices that shouldn’t be inserted there. This is not a book for the faint of heart.Bonk: The Curious Coupling of Science and Sex is the third book in the #bangingbookclub, run by Hannah Witton, Leena Norms, and Lucy Moon. Check out the Twitter feed to see what everyone else is saying about Bonk and the other reads (last month’s was  The Vagina Monologues ). This book club focuses on books
And while Roach diligently details much of the history of sex research, she spends a great deal of the book talking about the state of the field right now.
Also, the chapters themselves are short, making this a very easy book to read a little at a time.I appreciate the way Roach allays accusations that if you’re interested in talking about sex, or researching it in a lab, you must be a pervert.
To be clear, I don’t think Roach is deliberately implying that—I just worry it’s a side effect of some of her humour.Bonk might be one of the most edifying books I’ve read in a while—and I read a lot, a fair amount of it non-fiction.
This is definitely way more entertaining than a medical journal, don't get me wrong, Mary Roach kept it light and funny in parts (especially for the first half of the book), but eventually I started to feel a bit bogged down with facts that just seemed sort of useless and uninteresting.
They also appear to live longer.""Cheese crumbs spread out in front of a copulating pair of rats may distract the female, but not the male." [Because everybody knows bitches like their cheese] I definitely enjoyed  Packing for Mars more and thought it was much funnier, but I'll continue to read Roach's other books for future laughs and strange educational experiences.
Unlike any science book I've ever read--enlightening and hilarious!
Though there are less recent Western examples of puritanical and misogynistic ideas influencing and inhibiting sex research and gynocological treatment throughout the book, the chapter about the researcher in Egypt was heartbreaking.The book was also just very informative, and I thought I was pretty informed about sex and my own anatomy!
More important, reading it (learning more about my own body, learning more about a natural human activity) helped me further shrug off my own puritanical sexual programming, and anything that contributes to that is a definite winner for me.
A few examples of the language, I quoted above, and here are some more highlights from the book (I tried to find the short ones, many longer funny ones exist)“If one’s mouth is open when there is a sudden upsurge of erotic stimulation and response,” Kinsey writes, “saliva may be spurted some distance out of the mouth.”A quote from the 1935 edition of Sex Practice in Marriage: “Should a man be unable to restrain himself and have an orgasm before his wife, he must keep up the clitoris stimulation until his wife has reached the climax.”Some quotes from an information sheet given to volunteers for usage of ultrasound imaging in order to see what goes on "in there":"We are investigating whether this technique can be used to reveal more information on how various body parts work during various activities" "For a dry penile scan, a volunteer is asked to lie on the bed facing down, and place his penis through a hole in the bed into an artificial vagina.
Mary Roach takes an interesting and humorous look into the world of sex research, exploring the weird methods used and the evolution of the field of study.
I wonder if there is a book that covers this topic (if you know of one let me know).I am glad to have finally read Mary Roach and Bonk, I have discovered a new favourite author and a topic I need to learn more about.
If you have an interest in reading about the research of sex both physiologically and psychologically, I recommend both Bonk and Perv.This review originally appeared on my blog; http://www.knowledgelost.org/book-rev...
