https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92894.Love_and_War
The focus lies on love and war, be that war as we know it or struggling with feelings or being trapped in a dangerous situation.
Several decent stories, though overall nothing extraordinary.
Yes, Raistlin apparently made love to someone and became a father.
And there's even a telling about Huma against the Dark Queen.
Makes me want to read the novel about Huma for a better impression, because the Tales one is rather poor.
Just tell it like it is and don't use 2500 words to say it was war and war isn't fun.
So, again, fairly decent offering, but like the others nothing outstanding.
I didn't like the first two tales since they felt disconnected from the main characters of this world and I only flipped through the last one which had an interesting story but it was written in a really boring way (as a letter). And Raistlin's Daughter... eh, I'm not a fan of "boink or die" stories. But I loved the story about Tas - kenders are always fun! - and the one about Goldmoon and Riverwind.
There were many excellent stories in this anthology. I especially enjoyed the first two stories, which did not feature any of the companions. These and others were almost bordering on being real literature (except for the magic and the dragons and everything).
great book to read over all and I think most of the stories great also expeshally tords the end with the ending of a war and the legend of Raistlins daughter. To add to that I would have to add that love and war is the best out of the set from a lot of origin stories of the main characters.
Sad stories.A few nice back stories for those looking for some fill of what happened before the first Chronicles trilogy. But most of them rather depressing.
Raistlin's Daughter is a tale of Raistlin and Caramon right after Raistlin's test in the Tower of High Sorcery and is a legend about Raistlin possibly fathering a child and From the Yearrning for War and War's End is about the battle at the High Clerist Tower from the point of view of a Solamnic soldier.This is my second time reading this and I only read it cause I am determined to read every book in the series and while I can do without some of the stories the ones with the companions gives some good insight into these characters.
This anthology includes the titles "A Good Knight's Tale," "A Painter's Vision," "Hunting Destiny," "Hide and Go Seek," "By the Measure," "The Exiles," "Heart of Goldmoon," "Raistlin's Daughter," "Silver and Steel," and "From the Yearning for War and War's End."I am not a big fan of the short story collections published under the Dragonlance label, but I do give them a chance because I love the world of Krynn and I love the majority of the characters.
You will find a story or two that are good, but honestly, there are better anthologies out there.
4. Love and War edited by Margaret WeisGenre: FantasyPages: 365Acquired: Prior to 1999Book of Your Shelf?
YesWhy I have/read it: Part of DragonLance world (rereading all), Third in a series, January 2011 TIOLISeries: DragonLance, Tales #3A book of short stories about...you guessed it....love and war, and occasionally both at the same time.
Most of the stories were entertaining and a few were quite nice to read.I would not recommend this book/series as a place to start if you have not read any other DragonLance books, as you may not recognize the people or events.
This would greatly take away from the stories.
I don't remember much about this book; it may have been one of the few that I rented from they library, intead of owning.
"A Painter's Vision" is fun, which is odd to say about something that's basically a tragic story, but I like the character of the fasion-obsessed dragon.
I think I mostly loved this book for the beautiful cover art from "Raistlin's Daughter", even if I think the female character *may* have been a Mary Sue.
**spoilers* Nothing too obnoxious, just a perfectly beautiful, fragile, mysterious, magical character who steps into the story long enough to make love to a main character, and then dies tragically.
Ugh. Love. Not love, surely? *groan*I kid, I kid. The third volume in the Dragonlance Tales trilogy is as good as the first two. The strength of this series is that the writers selected to contribute stories are all above average writers. This is not hack writing, full of tired cliches and boring plots. Each of these stories is well written and engaging. Berberick is still my standout favorite and even the difficult Michael Williams contributes a very powerful story about the horrors of war.
**Duplicate comment for Dragonlance Series 1-9**Ah Raistlin Majere, how could you not like a guy with his own private library of leather-bound books?. . .oh yeah, there was that ruthless pursuit of power thing. Loved this series when I was a kid! My presiding memory of these was one of being encapsulated completely by them and the blanket I wrapped myself in, while on the couch, feigning fever, so I could skip school and read on bitter winter days.
another short story book! I found some repetitive but others I thoroughly enjoyed as they tend to fill in some gaps the longer tales might have left out. I had read the story of the making of raistlin's daughter but it was still great reading this once again. I think that one of the main gaps I still need to have filled is more knowledge about the ogre race!! and the people who had brought up the raistlin's daughter!!
Taken as a just a collection of short stories set in the Dragonlance setting, they are all good reads, ranging from ok to very well-written. The last story targeting Raistlin's past yet again was somewhat strange. Yes, it was well-written but didn't seem to jive well with what's in Chronicles and Legends. It felt more like plain-old marketing to make the book sell better by using Raistlin's name.
I pulled this book, like so many other dragon lance novels, off my brother's shelf and was really only interested in the story with Raistlin's name in it. He was otherwise absent from the story if memory serves, but I still enjoyed it. I tried the other stories and couldn't get into them after a few pages. I was young.
These stories touch vaious aspects of our fascination with Krynn. We learn more about characters who influence the lives of the people directly and see a more "human" side of them. Imagine companions sitting around a fire exchanging tales of those who have touched their lives and you'll get a pretty good idea of how to appreciate Love and War.
Like the title suggests, these short stories merge the tales of love between heroes against the back drop of the war of the lance. Excellent reading, really enjoyed this book just like the other two in this series. I have a feeling the Tales II trilogy might not be too far off in my future.
I was not impressed by this series of short stories from the world of Dragonlance, although their might be one redeeming tale the rest make it not worth the value to buy. If you want to read them try your local library.
Good solid tales in a world that I love
Este si estuvo pasable. Me gustaron algunas historias, pero sin embargo no supera a ninguno de la primera trilogia.
As a young teen I tried to read everything published under the Deagonlance banner!
Four stars for the general content of the book. Zero stars for the "Raistlin's Daughter" Novella-o'-Mary-Sue.
Raistlin's Daughter! Need I say more?
One of the better collections of Dragon Lance short stories. I especially liked "Raistlin's Daughter" -- but there are several good ones in this collection. I read this, a long time ago.
Chronicles of Han Storm Book Club Read
It has some good moments XD
