https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20819682-adultery
It's a story about adrenaline rush and how bit of excitement and doing something different and new with your husband can save your marriage.Spoiler alert!Its a story of egoistic and bored woman who has everything- money, lovely kids, bit dull but understanding and loving husband, respectable job.
Nice start, thought it will be a nice journey of bored and unhappy woman to find her inner happiness and purpose of life, with some cheating and sex involved.
Then he is mentioning stories for kids, but the way he did it is like our happiness should be delivered by this prince we are waiting for, who never shows up.
Ok so, if you are going to write a review about a book... At least know how to spell! I don't appreciate the fact that some people take it up to themselves to write a review about a book and give away what the story is about and how it ends. I think instead, it would be better if you just say it wasn't what you expected and that's it!Don't ruin it for others please!!!
She was a stereotypical, “I found myself obsessing about this asshole and I cannot distinguish love from lust because I cannot distinguish anything in my life because I am a hapless woman in need of antidepressants and one partner who fulfills all my needs because I don’t have friends or my own interests or the ability to imagine life outside of society’s prescriptions.” Seriously.
I don’t know any women like this.
Maybe this is one of those the grass is always greener when there’s a fence, but I was hoping for something nuanced, something that made me want to rethink my thoughts about life like many of Coelho’s other books have done for me.
لا أبالي ولو مقدار ذرة أن أكون سعيدًا، أفضل أن أعيش حياتي بشغف وهذا خطير لأنك لا تعلمين البتة ما قد يحدث تاليًا أكثر ما قد يُرعبنا في الحياة، هو أن نقف عند اللحظة التي نجد فيها أن حياتنا ليس لها أي معنىلا تُزيد للدنيا شيء، أنت فقط ولدت، تتعلم، تعمل، تتزوج، تُنجب دائرة مفرغة، مستقبل مرسوم مسبقًا طريق سبقك إليه الكثيرين وعليك السير فيه أين المغامرة، المخاطرة، الشغف، الهدفأين كُلّ تلك الأشياء التي تُعطي لحياتك معنى، وتجعل لوجودك سبب ما؟أين تلك البصمة التي تتركها للعالم؟ أين تأثيرك فيه؟تأتي وترحل،

This book is very different from Paulos previous work. As a woman I feel like he got us! Even though the title is Adultery I think this is a book about love!!
This book is very different from Paulo´s previous work. As a woman I feel like he got us! Even though the title is Adultery I think this is a book about love!!
The story of an existential crisis peppered with porn and religious preaching and ending with a trite conclusion. Not what I expected from Coelho.
If you have negative IQ, this is the book for you.Full review available on  Bozhidara's Book Corner
i did not like at all!! i am disappointed at him!!Spoiler: I really wanted her to commit suicide at the end, or at least take an overdose of the drugs she bought!!
I would have rated it ZERO stars it that were possible. Don't waste your time reading this crap, it's not worth it. Glad I didn't waste my money as well, in you're curious just borrow it from someone.
I can't believe this is written by the same man who wrote one of my favorite novels. Utterly shocking and incredibly disappointing. I read the entire book, because I was waiting for it to get good, but it never happened. Don't waste time, or money on this sell out.
She wonders whether she needs to see a psychiatrist but doesn't think that will work either.It must be difficult to empathise with Linda unless you yourself have felt that sort of restlessness.
But what I think is important is to not let yourself slip into a rut because if you get in too deep then the only way out is going to be to upend your life and those of the people you love.This is a book which needs the reader to do some hard thinking about their own lives and to be aware that restlessness and boredom can lead to constructive change or it can lead to destruction.
I'm glad to read a new genre by Paulo Coelho which falls more into literary fiction.
In this story, Coelho shows the monster, that which resides in each of us, coming up with revenge.
Letting the monster come out is something forbidden, horrible, and dirty.
But through the monster, she returns back from the forbidden adventure as a stronger woman, a better person, a renewed soul.I read this book in the original native language version (Brazilian Portuguese) and found it a refreshing take from some of Coelho's earlier books.
Although I'd be glad to give an honest review, I'm not an avid reader of erotica, so I may not be the best person to ask.Addition 2/2015: This book is a lesson in feminism!
It's not, it's not!Original review 9/2014:I will guess that a person who has not withstood and lived through a life-altering event, will never understand this book and will probably not like it.
I definitely would not have liked this book in my 20's and possibly not in my 30's, because at that point, I hadn't experienced hardships in the same way I have now.
Uggh!
platitudes, platitudes everywhere…nor very original thing to read (sorry Mr. Coleridge !
Anyways, the book reads like a diary collection of author’s one-liners and, philosophical and quotable views on love, marriage, depression, passion and romantic ideals, on which he later plastered a plot-less story of bored, egoistical and self-absorbed woman with mid-life and existential crisis (?).
The book is chockfull of wallowing internal monologues, some utterly (I like this word) un-erotic porn, some preachy clichés, unrealistic conversations but without the author’s usual lyrical and eloquent prose.
يبدو أن كويلو وضع كل قدراته الروائية في رائعته الخيميائي ولم يبقَ لديه ما يقدّمه ..نعم هناك رسالة ، لكن القالب الروائي الذي حاول حشرها ضمنه فاشل جدا !نجمة واحدة للاقتباسات والرسائل الجميلة فقطأعتقد أنه سيمضي وقت طويل قبل أن أفكر في القراءة لكويلو مجددا
But her internal struggle was indeed written in such a way that I felt nothing but compassion.As far as the other three important characters go, they felt round and real (although the husband is always referred to as "my husband" and Linda's name is expressed twice the entire novel).
Unfortunately I don't feel that Coelho found a smooth way to share his views this time.
This, in combination with the issues mentioned above, gave it a slightly preachy feel.Perhaps Coelho's novels have always been like this and that this is what you're looking for when you seek his work.
Well, I think that I liked and hated this book!It's not awesome. It's not GREAT. It's just good ... and bad!!There are so many things that I didn't like, and there are things that I really liked. What I liked is the idea of redemption. Everyone of us deserve a second chance. We're neither Angels nor demons. We're humans, and being a human means being a sinner.What I didn't like (pretty much hated actually!!!):1. Spending so many pages talking about other books and providing us with their plot su
Well, I think that I liked and hated this book!It's not awesome.
What I liked is the idea of redemption.
We're humans, and being a human means being a sinner.What I didn't like (pretty much hated actually!!!):1.
Spending so many pages talking about other books and providing us with their plot summaries!
Writing an entire book (more than 200 pages) to deliver a very simple message, which could've been delivered in one chapter or even less!I felt that the last chapter is the most important chapter.
It's the chapter that conveys the whole idea.
When the Alchemist lost his Charming Powers!
Done ❤❤❤(Learn to love better.This should be out goal in the world: learn to love. Life offers us thousands of opportunities for learning. Every man and every woman, in every day of our lives, always has a good opportunity to surrender to love. Life is not a long vacation, but a constant learning process.) a novel of a lucky woman, she has everything, wealthy man, kids, and respected work, but instead of being happy she feels disappointed and sad.she realized that she is not happy after she meet
Life is not a long vacation, but a constant learning process.) a novel of a lucky woman, she has everything, wealthy man, kids, and respected work, but instead of being happy she feels disappointed and sad.she realized that she is not happy after she meet her ex-boyfriend from the high-school, and the journey of adventure started.We can't live our life without love, care, feelings and someone around us pats out shoulders and tells us everything is ok, i am here, love u and care about u.But, we can't cheat our husbands and waifs, we can't throw years of marriage in the air just for desire, i still wonder how people, married people, can do this.I believe in our needing for care and feeling safe, for get out out loneliness and being something for someone, but as we use heart for love we must use brain for balancing and judging on our choices.
الرواية سيء نوعًا ما تكرار الموضوع ومشاعرها بصيغ مختلفة كان سيء، يمكن اختصار أحداث الرواية في 20 صفحة دون أدنى تشويه للحبكة
1 star - I really hated it.Once upon a time, a ludicrous married woman with children feels she is bored by being so happy and her life being so perfect (she actually says this).
In case you have a completely different literary taste than myself, allow me to share a few snippets of this author's work that are examples of why it was drudgery for me to read it:My heart!
We have to find a middle path, where there is neither joy nor suffering, only profound peace.The author did a very poor job of getting inside of a woman's head as this was an extremely unconvincing novel that failed to provoke emotion or engagement from the reader.
However I think people hate this Book for its Main Character Linda who has PErfect Life, Perfect Husband, Good Career yet commits Adultery to bring some Excitement in her Life.
Loved the way Author Paulo Coelho dives in the Soul of the Characters of this Book, strips them Naked of Emotions & presents you the very Core of their Existence.
The only thing the author begs you to give to this Book is Time.
I will Recommend this Book to Every Married Couple !!
This story is centered around a married woman who is lucky enough to have a good, rich and loving husband and two beautiful kids and a grand house, yet she still longs for some drama in her marriage to be specific, she needs excitement in her life as well as in her marriage.Synopsis: The thought-provoking new novel from the international bestselling author whose words change lives.Linda knows she's lucky.Yet every morning when she opens her eyes to a so-called new day, she feels like closing them again.Her friends recommend medication.But Linda wants to feel more, not less.And so she embarks on an adventure as unexpected as it is daring, and which reawakens a side of her that she - respectable wife, loving mother, ambitious journalist - thought had disappeared.Even she can't predict what will happen next...
Well, none of my current reads was able to captivate me yesterday, I decided to read some book with less pages and more lesson and trusting Coelho with it, I just picked it up.
This book doesn't burden your mind and still teaches you a lot.
And what makes him good or bad isn't the ratio of the dark or light inside him but the amount of control he has over the respective parts.
For control, we are provided with mind as a rational part.
But to counter that rationality, we are given an equally potent competitor; the heart with it's desires.
The Alchemist I found beautiful, Veronika decides to die very well written.
But if they aren't very interesting - what's the point?Adultery has been written about by many, but I don't think this adds anything to the genre.A rich, successful woman (with loving husband, wonderful children, big house, good job) in Geneva is bored with her life.
I think I would have preferred Jacob's wife as narrator, she's much more interesting.The sex is terrible, and I mean that in both senses.
So you can't see any good reason for her to want to continue the affair.

Skidded by with a 2 rating. I'm convinced his magic is gone.
A woman of great material fortune begins to feel the emptiness in her life as she is going through a time of awakening.
Through this journey, however, she discovers that there are much more to forbidden love affairs than she thought.When I was reading this book, I wondered how people would react to it.
I didn't question, I simply did what I felt was needed and enjoyed the book so much more by the light of the morning.Will this be a life changer like The Alchemist?

روايه سيئه وممله لأبعد الحدود الكاتب أسلوبه أرشق من ذلك ولكنه هنا يضعنا أمام الملل الذي يصيب الأزواج وأشواقهم للتغير عبر الخيانه الأفكار مستهلكه ،لا جديد لا حكمه لا موعظه لا فكره لا شيء نستفيد منهممله بصفحات كثيره كان يمكن إختصارها الكتاب بعض الأحيان يصيبهم الإفلاس الإبداعي وهذه الروايه إحدى هذه الإفلاسات لكاتب كبير لم أكملها لكل تلك الأسباب ولست نادم علي عدم إكمالها
