https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11265.Sins_of_the_Fathers
I see very few people seem to read the back story of Augustus as they review this book so I thought I would make a more detailed review than usual.All of Howatch's books are written in this way, including the Starbridge series and the St Benet's trilogy.
And they are ALL complex psychological studies, just like real people are.So, you can read this straight, as a Gothic novel - or you can read it with one eye on the back story.
Either way, it's engaging writing but the latter way it becomes mesmerising, as Howatch demonstrates that all human stories are able to be repeated over and over again; just the context changes.
Each part of the book is devoted to one of the main characters that became then the narrators of the story.The author intwined several controversial themes, such as adultery, murder, alcoholism, impotence, health problems among other without loosing the focus in the main plot.In my opinion, Susan Howatch is a master of the story teller and her stories are quite unpredictable and very complex also.Some other books I do recommend are Penmarric (1971), Cashelmara (1974) and The Wheel of Fortune (1984).
5* Penmarric5* Cashelmara4* The Shrouded Walls3* April's Grave3* The Devil on Lammas Night5* The Wheel of Fortune4* Sins of the Fathers
This is just not keeping my interest. Sam is boring boring boring and I can't even bear to finish with his narrative. Perhaps because post WWII era doesn't interest me much. *shrugs* Moving on, life is too short.
I've never felt so sad by a book in my life!It felt so real and I tried to believe that it's just a book, but I don't think it is. The world is just cruel.
Sequel to 'The Rich are Different', set ten years later.
Again it's written from varying perspectives, which works well to develop the arious plots, but it mainly revolves around Cornelius, head of a bank.
The book was very well-written, though I have little interest in high finance, and although the ending was rather bleak, I thought it was probably right.Re-reading nearly nine years later, I found it gripping once again, and surprisingly enjoyable despite the business/banking theme.
I had quite forgotten the climax of the book, which once again saddened me, but the conclusion was undoubtedly right.
Best read after 'The Rich are Different'.
I have read multiple Susan Howatch now and have loved everyone of them. This one was entertaining too, but I figure out all the plot twists, made me a little sad. But I guess if I read 10 bookd of hers before I figured out her plots and patterns it means she is an amazing writer. (Or I am a slow learner! - Both are true!)
While I enjoyed this novel (and to finish it you have to - it's over 700 pages!) because I like these multi-generational wealthy family sagas, it was difficult to feel much empathy for the major players.
Although I kept reminding myself the story follows the lives of the ultra rich and begins post WW II, when times were different, the two key women led such useless lives it seemed.
I suppose we like these books because we all imagine what life would be like with limitless resources, power, and success, but this is a shining example of money not bringing happiness.
The book was WOW!. It has a wonderful storyline and most of the time, I couldnt predict what will happen next which I liked. The book was centred around a man, Cornelius, How he tried to control his family, his friends and everyone around him in the name of morality, doing what is right but his means and reason was just to satisfy him alone. It all failed in the end and ended with his own daughte turning her back against him. i love this book soooooooooo much!
PerfectBeautiful, lyrical, heartbreaking. Those are the words that most readily come to mind when I think of this book. I found 'Sins of the Fathers' to be a perfect reading experience. As an avid, long time reader, I can honestly say that there haven't been too many books I would say that about.
Susan Howatch does not disappoint. Themes of success, power, family, communication and patriotism set across the decades of the 1930's through the 1960's made this a satisfying read. I did not like several characters, but Ms. Howatch draws the reader into their world and to a large extent, their minds. I highly recommend this book and this author.
This is one of my favorite books of all time! I read The Rich Are Different first and liked that a lot but this was even better. Interesting, well written suspenseful - the works!!!! I'm sad it's over...
An excellent retelling of the life of Augustus/Imperial Rome in a semi modern setting.
A great book, incredible up until the end when things turned predictable and melodramatic. It was going to get five stars but I had to knock it down because I really hated that ending. Nevertheless, I highly recommend the Van Zale duology (this is book 2). Do yourself a favor and read The Rich Are Different first to get the most out of this story.
Read this in the 80's. Loved it then.
I did not realize this book was a sequel.
I didn't read the first book.
However this book stands on its own.
I really enjoyed this book.
It reminded me of Kane and Abel and Master of the Game.
It took me awhile to get invested in the characters which I blame on not reading the prior book.
This book is very long over 600 pages and it did positively hold my attention throughout.
Once again there are characters that you dislike and those that are easier to like.
That is the interesting and involving part of this book.
I am so glad I discovered Susan Howatch. I couldn't do justice at summarizing the story. There are so many good reviews if you look her up. Even though this particular book is about 20th century characters, there is an understory of Augustus Caesar, Cleopatra, Mark Anthony and some others. I found it fascinating and couldn't get much else accomplished until I finished the book.
Own. (Thank goodness)What a great book. Best one I've read this year. I want to write a more thorough review later. Still thinking.
A re-reading of this book did not disappoint. I liked it as much as the first and now I want to read more of her books - some that I've already read and others that I haven't.
Read it at a time when reading meant more than an escape. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Can't remember much of it accept it was a huge book to read, perhaps I should read again. I know I enjoyed it but can't remember much.
I loved this book. One of those that stayed with me through the years.
Pretty decent sequel to "The Rich are Different." I still hate Cornelius--what a little backstabber!
Liked it a lot....not as much as the first (but then who ever does like it as much as the first). A compelling read!!
Although one understands at the outset that it is a family saga it drags on and on with excessive detail and description in many places, particularly as relates to the physical surroundings.
Then the end seems rushed in comparison to the rest of the book.
The machinations of the family members are worthy of the finest soap opera.
The trappings of the characters are fairly believable considering they are all from an extremely rich banking family ranging from the 30s to the 60s.
I wanted to know how all the sub-plots came together in the end, so I finished it.
I just finished listening to this long, engaging, historical novel which begins in the 1930s in New York.
Back and forth between New York City and London, England, we see the deadly influence of manipulative parents, husbands and bankers interspersed with poetry, dreams and philosophy.
It is a powerful story that could easily be analyzed on a psychiatrists couch.
I cried at one point in the book.
Very powerful, and sometimes very disturbing.
One critique: every once in a while the author goes a bit overboard - but I deeply enjoyed the book anyway.
Not as engaging as the previous Van Zale novel, "The Rich Are Different". Characters began to wear on me and eventually they managed to just disappear. Sometimes Howatch can be rather dark and gloomy and I wasn't as thrilled by the ending as I was in TRAD. Now that, was an ending! This one just petered out at the end. Even history repeating itself can be boring. Read TRAD and forget this lukewarm follow through.
This is the sequel to The Rich are Different and every bit as gripping. Nobody does the alternating first person point of view like Howatch. Her Starbridge and St. Benet's trilogy novels, set in the Church of England, are among my very favorite novels of the 20th century.
Another Susan Howatch book, that I adored when I read it. The more pages the better her books were.
Epic and thoroughly satisfyingLong in the best wayCharacters fleshed out so even a person you came to see as evil held your sympathy at times
I listened to the audio version of this book immediately following the first book of the saga "The Rich Are Different." I enjoy the historical perspectives and the way that Howatch can tell a story from the perspective of different characters.
In both audio versions, the reader had a limited range of voices (they almost all sound sort of the same).
It was sometimes difficult to figure out who was "talking." I enjoyed the "The Rich Are Different" more than the sequel "Sins of the Father," mostly because the mail characters were less sympathetic and had less depth.
