https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774028.Salem_Possessed
Boyer and Nissenbaum have an excellent point, but they could have used another pass for clarity.In essence, the argument of Salem Possessed is that witchcraft isn't about witchcraft.
What Boyer and Nissenbaum do exceptionally well is demonstrate and elucidate (even if they are at times confusing) the social and economic conflicts which lay behind the witchcraft accusations.
They offer compelling, if sometimes over-simplified, reasons why the people who were accused of witchcraft were accused: why those people, and not others.Insofar as is possible, Boyer and Nissenbaum avoid talking about the examinations and trials.
But Paul Boyer and Stephen Nissenbaum bring the pre-witchcraft and post-witchcraft politics to light, going deeper into the current village of Danvers’s history, telling the story in a gripping way that’ll have you turning the page excitedly.It’s a bright summer’s day, and the many kids at the small country club in Penfield were screaming and laughing, splashing each other or doing flips and jumps off the diving board.
In the epilogue they talk about Salem village going into the 18th century and finally becoming the town of Danvers in 1737.” “You know, I might actually read that book.” “You probably could understand it.
What I enjoyed most about Salem Possessed was how the authors spent time explaining the different players living in Salem Village and offering profiles of several accused witches to demonstrate the similarities and differences in their circumstances.
Likewise, the ample detail on Salem Village's struggle for independence from Salem Town provides another fascinating look into the context of the Witchcraft Trials.My only critique is that I felt the authors took too many narrative liberties in reconstructing certain individuals' biographies.
Why were they not, at the very least, chastised for behavior which itself verged on witchcraft?" (23)3) "Why is it that Northampton in 1735 ranks in American history as a prelude to what would become known as the Great Awakening rather than being bracketed with Salem Village as the scene of an anachronistic outbreak of witchcraft hysteria?" (30)4) "But many New Englanders must have been at war with themselves at the end of the seventeenth century, and for these very reasons.
What was it that reduced the Salem Village struggle to a kind of total war?" (107) ** Reasons: physical setting, taste of independence, lack of power in Town politics, and weak stick in Boston.
A fascinating read that's also stellar history.
The authors found and examined a mass of "boring" everyday documents and used them to describe, in great detail, the social context of the town and the different factions within it.
They're able to identify at least some of those differences, including the village's peculiar legal standing, the consequences of its geography, the specific people and personalities at play, and how all those things interacted with the spirit of the time, resulting in tragedy.
"Geography is destiny," my medieval studies prof always used to say, and that's no different here. Absolutely fascinating look into why Salem devolved into hysteria over witchcraft versus any other town. Hardly a mention of witches at all, but instead warring family clans, the battle of agrarian Puritanical collectivism against mercantile individualists, and a string of disinherited sons. The beginning is a bit of a slog, but it sets the stage for the later more gripping chapters.
I had to read this book for my Anthropology class. It is a great historical compilation of diaries, town records, sermons, etc. that tries to adequately explain what happened in the 1692 Salem Witch Trials. A couple of points of view I found very interesting because I never considered those views. (I don't want to say any more because I don't want to spoil it in case you want to read it.) ;o)
If you want to understand why the Salem witch trials happened, this is THE book to read.
Using trial documents and census records, the authors' create maps revealing that almost all of the accusers came from a handful of these traditionalist village families and their servants (on the west side of the Salem Village county).
Meanwhile, those who were accused were mostly either newly-settled families whose financial interests were tied to the commercial progress in Salem Town proper (not the rural village).
Despite this flawed chapter, the book is a MUST READ for anyone seeking to understand what happened in Salem in 1692.
Anyone who reads "Salem Possessed" will find their knowledge of the witch trials enriched, even if they do not find a story as thrilling (or female-centric) as Arthur Miller's "The Crucible." The accusations of witchcraft exacerbated interlocking tensions in Salem Village — the peripheral, pastoral Village versus the mercantilist Salem Town; Rev. Parris's greed and fear of betrayal; folk interest in the occult and Tituba's magic; and the debate as to whether a whole community or an elite "church" should dominate local politics.
The authors argue that mercantilism and a less credulous approach to witchcraft ultimately eclipsed the mentality of the accusers and prosecutors in colonial New England.
Some may argue, with reason, that Boyer and Nissenbaum assume that mercantilism's triumph was inevitable.
A very good examination of the factors creating the perfect conditions leading to the deaths of innocent people; conditions which, the argument goes, led to religious revivals less than a half century later.The economic, geographic, and psychological factors are well explained and well argued.If you are fascinated by this horrific event this is a wonderful examination of how ordinary people and their circumstances can lead to extraordinary events.
I really enjoyed it. This book offers a somewhat expanded view of what went through the Witch Trials of 1692 in Salem and the events and social relations that could have influenced them. The narrative is fluent and sometimes a bit oldish, but all the more enjoyable. It has some economical tints I really liked too.
Informative but at times boring.
A well structured and researched insight into the social environment of the colony in the seventeenth century.
fascinating. different from what little is covered in history class.
3.5 stars - rounding down
I like the idea of it, but it's a bit dry.
A. Summary: This book is the study of a single event--the Salem Witchcraft trials in 1692. This is the first book to place this event into its social context--the history of Salem village. The main issue was the factional dispute between Salem town and village. Since there was no central government in Massachusetts at this time a resolution was impossible to legislate. The Salem villagers, feeling alienated by the commercial townsmen, were the central accusers of the “possessed” girls. This accu
This is the first book to place this event into its social context--the history of Salem village.
The main issue was the factional dispute between Salem town and village.
The Salem villagers, feeling alienated by the commercial townsmen, were the central accusers of the “possessed” girls.
Structure of book: The first half deals with the social factors of the towns and the emerging factions.
Factional disputes between Salem town and village1.
Pro Parris were church members, poorer, lived in Salem village, they played a leading role in the persecutions, were the more vulnerable group because they were cut off from town4.
I think the title should be more specific, the work explains the social context of this one witchcraft outbreak and doesn't mention any other parallels, so it is relevant really only to the Salem phenomenon.
This community had a collective breakdown, and we all want to avoid that from happening....I was really intrigued by the arguments that the same social tensions only a generation later but solidly in the 18th century rather than the strange world of the 17th, those same tensions produced the Great Awakening rather than witchcraft hysteria, the beginnings of that particular, complex and rich Christian culture in America.
In addition to the usual body of sources--legal depositions at trials, narrative and polemical publications--the two historians incorporated previously unexplored documents--community votes, tax assessments, lists of local officials (from church archives), as well as wills, deeds, estate inventories, lawsuit testimonies, and a manuscript volume of Reverend Samuel Parris' sermons--in order to flesh out the specific details surrounding the historical event to show how it reflected an extreme case of common colonial sentiments of the time.
"[T]he more we have come to know these men for something like what they really were, the more we have also come to realize how profoundly they were shaped by the times in which they lived." Yeah, we get it, men controlled everything, way to drive it home in the conclusion by allowing your research to bring exactly the same message, to be exactly the same thing.
The financial research and information presented is valuable and relevant, but without examination of any other contributing factors, the book is shallow and misleading in the grand scheme of studying the Salem witchcraze.
I tried a few months ago to read the new Salem books--The Witches by Schiff--and I hated it; too much research recap and not enough analysis.
A friend who is also a Salem fanatic suggested this book instead.
The book looks at how social structure, geography, and quest for power may have contributed to the events of 1692.
I have long suspected that the social structure of the Puritan society, as well as personal desire for power, were major contributors.
And, of course, the harsh living conditions, too, would have contributed.
Great read for anyone who, like me, is fascinated by that period of history.
All in all, an excellent read, though I take issue with B & N's use of tax records, the fairy-tail (wicked step-mother) projection motif that dominates the latter half of the book. psychoanalysis isn't easy to do, especially if it's only done by halves. In essence, I missed a more thorough effort to explore the psychological pressures that created this long-lasting catastrophe. I also disagree with N & B's decision to dismiss the girls and their psychological/political motives. To B &amp
All in all, an excellent read, though I take issue with B & N's use of tax records, the fairy-tail (wicked step-mother) projection motif that dominates the latter half of the book.
In essence, I missed a more thorough effort to explore the psychological pressures that created this long-lasting catastrophe.
I also disagree with N & B's decision to dismiss the girls and their psychological/political motives.
To B & N, the girls are merely tools of the Salem Village political faction.
This belies any agency or agenda the girls might have had in perpetuating the hysteria and is typical of scholarship during the era in which N & B wrote Salem Possesssed.
This was a second reading for me.
Boyer and Nissenbaum’s work is a landmark look at the factionalism—social, political, and religious—that engendered the witch hysteria in 1692 Salem.
Despite what some scholars seem to believe, what can be said well in 100 words, cannot be better better said in 200, and I no longer have the patience for this kind of bloviated academic writing.
Although B&N's interpretation is vital to understanding the subject, unless this is required reading, read elsewhere.
There are more recent books on the subject that acknowledge B&N, are more readable, and incorporate a less narrow perspective.
A Storm of Witchcraft: The Salem Trials and the American Experience by Emerson W.

Boyer and Nissenbaum give an interesting insight of the social history in late 17th century Salem, and this book is and interesting read; but don't expect a bunch of witch tales if that is what you are looking for.
The Authors give good sources for their theory of how the Salem Witch Trials occured, but I find it hard to believe that it was all over political factions.
Though I did learn plenty from this book and do recommend this book for those who would like a deeper understanding of the history of the times in Salem; I believe there is more to the witch outbreaks like a natural toxin, parasite, or disease.
I had to read this for an Early American History class that I'm currently taking at Valeton. I really wanted to like this book, but I found it so completely dry that it was painful to get through. The book paints a picture of Salem as a period of social competition more than anything else. As a student of history, I suppose that's all well and good and researched and interesting, but as a writer I found myself struggling to lose myself in it. It's a story that SHOULD be much more interesting than this was.
I suspected that this was a gussied-up dissertation and I believe I was right in my suspicions. The premise of the book was interesting and to me it was new information: the witch trials in Salem Village were as bad as they were due to longstanding factionalism in the village that went back generations. Having made their case the authors went on to make it two or three times again accompanied by a lot of dull charts and illustrations. It's not necessary to finish the book, as is the case with so much academic writing.
This is a fantastic history of the Salem Witch Trials. Boyer and Nissenbaum are masterful historians, and weave a story that brings to light the underlying issues that led to that horrific event. It's fascinating to read about the social issues that preceded and surrounded the Trials, showing that it was not just a random anomaly, but the result of long-standing issues between the people of Salem Town and Salem Village. It might be a bit dry to people who are not interested in history, but for anyone who is even remotely interested, I highly recommend this book.
This book was intriguing in that the authors delved into the schisms of family and neighbors and clearly drew lines that later became the basis of the accusations of witchcraft. They posit an interesting theory as well: what if in the beginning, the possessed girls were merely acting out a religious awakening, what we might call today being 'full of the spirit' or 'speaking in tongues'? The maps drawing the lines of battle between the factions of Salem were also a nice touch.
The title was rather misleading; while it is an excellent social history of Salem Village and Salem Town politics and economics the book doesn't delve too deeply into the religious or psychological origins of witchcraft. I found myself continually flipping to the back of the book to see how many pages were left.
