https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/605666.The_Priory
This book revolves around the priory of Saunby, placed somewhere in England, and I liked it a lot.
Right from the beginning, it was so easy to get into the place and the lovely characters living in Saunby, and it was interesting to read about their developments since this novel takes place over the span of several years.
The only fault I found with it was the ending in which Dorothy Whipple makes sure everything is perfect for everyone - I didn't buy that and felt like it made for a poor conclusion to an otherwise very interesting story about life, loss and growing up.
So: Here's a 1939 novel from England, featuring faded aristocrats running out of money, a moldering manor house, penniless heiresses looking for love and/or financial stability, social climbers, and servants who, to the surprise of their employers, have lives of their own.So, perhaps, think of this as The Cherry Orchard by way of Downton Abbey.
What delighted me, not having heard of the novel or the author before I started reading, was how truly first-rate the book was going to turn out to be.
No one is quite who you think they are, and yet every character in the book is persuasively him- or herself throughout.
The story revolves around the residents of Saunby, a crumbling estate in the Midlands, being run into the ground by Major Marwood who has no idea of how to run the estate and is only willing to send money on cricket.
Major Marwood decides to marry Anthea, who is the catalyst for change at the Priory.
Meek at first, she comes into her own as time goes on and we follow the trials and tribulations facing the family.
I loved the characterisation in this book and watching how the various characters grow, for better or for worse, as times change for them and war looms in the background.
Whipple also includes the house's servants in her story, in a love triangle among the Major's right-hand man Thompson and two of the maids, sharp Bertha and pretty Bessy.With the introduction of the Major's new wife, earnest, graceless Anthea, things start to change at the Priory, in ways its inhabitants never imagined, and everyone must come to terms with life in a changing, modern world.
The ending jars a little, because it's full of misplaced hope for a war the characters think has been averted (World War II, in reality soon to start), but the rest of the book is beautifully understated, quietly absorbing, and engaged with examining the role of women, as all of Whipple's books are.
I have only just started this, but every page offers another small reason to like Dorothy Whipple's writing. Take this: 'She painted in oils. Not mildly as befitted a maiden lady of fifty-three years, but boldly and badly.'
The book focuses on a family of landed gentry who are challenged by the financial ruin brought on by pride, incompetance and irresponsibility.This book most definitely won't appeal to everyone: for most of the 500 pp.
How they sort out their small lives evolved into a fascinating read for me.I keep gravitating to the novels of the 20's, 30's and 40's because I enjoy reading about women's preparedness to face the world (or not).
This book paints a very dramatic picture of the challenges uneducated women face, as well as their efforts to be self-sufficient.
It won't surprise you to hear that character and determination win out.
The Priory is a book that GoodReads kept recommending to me and which I kept ignoring.Well, GoodReads, you win.
I liked it.The Priory is about a family, consisting of a widower father and his two 19/20-year-old daughters.
Some of them are quite serious.Normally, I don't like a book where people's personal lives get off track and they fail to communicate or make good decisions.
They genuinely learn from their mistakes.
As I said, mistakes are made.
Dorothy Whipple writes beautifully and with love about the residents of Saunby, a priory somewhere in depths of the English countryside.
Whipple, has the very almost Victorian British philosophy (that reminds me of my grandmother) about the redemptive powers of struggle and work and this also remains a theme throughout the novel.
This book left such a deep impression on me that I am now going to buy the rest of Mrs. Whipple's cannon (also what an extraordinarily wonderful name, Whipple!) and add some of the other books that Persephone publish to my 'to-read' list.
The Priory is now undoubtedly an unexpected favourite of mine and I can't wait to read more of her work.
I loved this book!
The Priory is a big house somewhere in the Midlands, going to rack and ruin because Major Marwood, a widower with two independent-minded daughters of 19 and 20, is more interested in cricket than in making any money from his estate.
Also in the house is his eccentric sister, who spends all her time painting (badly).
Then the Major decides to remarry, and the household is thrown into disarray.The narrative passes from character to character, including some who only appear later in the book.
I loved the way that different characters developed and showed both their bad and good sides depending on the circumstances.
Another excellent novel published by Persephone Books.
I would like to give this book 4.5 stars because I found it a little laborious in the beginning, but since it was written by an author who I have grown to love, I pushed on and it was well worth a little perseverance.First published in 1939 as contemporary fiction, it is today a delightful showcase of gentry grappling with inherited country estates and financial tribulations during the 1930s.
Upstairs/downstairs storylines were woven skilfully together at a particularly difficult period of history, when the dark clouds of another war were looming above everyone.
Simply one of the two best books I've read this year--the other was Lucia in London by EF Benson.
I love finding hilarious women writers from the past--Dorothy Whipple is at the top of her game.
Plot: A father, two teenage daughters and a spinster aunt live in genteel poverty in Saunby, a massive estate that is falling into ruins due to the father's negligent financial talents--he will only spend money on himself, they are only allowed to use electricity when he is home, etc.
Whipple's one-liners are treasure; the first half of the book is funnier than the second half, but that never detracts in any way from the story line.
This is a quite a nice big thick Persephone book, and I loved it.
The priory of the title is the house and esate - Saunby - built on the site of an ancient priory - it belongs to Major Marwood.
But change beckons - the Major decides to re marry - Anthea is almost forty, and he assumes will just run his house rather better than it has been run under the eye of his spinster sister.
The lives of all at Saunby change - and both daughters are forced to look at their lives and act accordingly.
Over all another great read from Persephone.
Another great book by Dorothy Whipple, with characters, who undergo changes throughout the novel. The story takes place just before WWII, in Saunby (the Priory), one of those big family houses, which is slowly falling apart, for lack of care and money.Great story and excellent character description. I loved the way Christine, when having to fend for herself, decides that she'll make sure her baby daughter will grow up, making a career for herself. I wish Persephone books published more Dorothy Whipple as ebooks.
"She saw for the first time that the history of Saunby was a sad one. It had been diverted from its purpose; it had been narrowed from a great purpose to a little one. It had been built for the service of God and the people; all people, but especially the poor."The Priory’ is the story of how the future of Saunby Priory might be diverted to recover the livelihoods, dignity and self-worth of a large community of people, united in their purpose. It is a beautiful novel, worthy of the highest praise.Find a full review here: http://bagfullofbooks.com/2015/10/22/...
People can be awful - selfish, thoughtless, and even cruel to one another. But awful people can and do rise to the occasion and find goodness at their core. In The Priory, the characters grew (or didn't) in unexpected ways. Redemption is a complicated business. This was my first Dorothy Whipple book and will not be my last. It was an absorbing read. I loved it.
Major Marwood lives on an old estate (Saunby Priory) with his two teen-age daughters and spinster sister Victoria.
It would be convenient for everyone if the Major's artistic sister Victoria could lend a hand and take over the housekeeping, but unfortunately her paintings (which no one seems to admire very much) take up all her time (put down that paintbrush and take charge, Victoria!) And so as the house deteriorates more and more and the annual cricket match looms, it is apparent that the best thing for the Major to do is to find himself a new wife.And so, along comes Anthea.
In the meantime, Thompson, the Major's right hand man for all things cricket, is tricked into marriage by the despiccable housemaid Bertha, leaving his true love, Bessy, devastated.
At the end of the book, Nicholas' rich father comes up with the perfect scheme to save Saunby, give his son a useful occupation, and keep the family together : he buys Saunby from the Major, planning to turn it into a farm/agricultural cooperative, led by Nicholas, Christine, and even the returning Thompson.I loved this book.
A tender, quiet observation about an aristocratic family and their coping with life and the changing times in which they have to come to terms with.
Whipple female characters are very well drawn out - their coming of age is described with compassion and sometimes with good hearted humour.
One of the main themes is of course the independence of women - how it dawned on them that it is claustrophobic to be dependent of men for all their lives and rather a poor life but a free one.
A family saga which follows the Marwoods of isolated Saunby Priory, in particular Christine and Penelope the daughters of patriarch Major Marwood. Their sleepy existence is about to be overturned by Major Marwood's decision to marry. Insightful, subtle portrait of a family and 1930s middle-class culture. Dorothy Whipple may have been dismissed in the past as a decidedly middle-brow author but she writes incredibly absorbing stories, although not my favourite Whipple, this is no exception.
I'm a bit torn on the rating- 3.75 I am in the English Countryside kind of a mood, and this hit the mark. The pace was slow and like many classics it delved deeper into the character's lives slowly and methodically, allowing the plot to meander. What I liked best was the thrill and climax toward the end. I don't want to share what I felt was cliche about the ending for fear of spoiling another's experience. Bottom line I enjoyed my first Whipple and will read more of her novels.
The record came mercifully to an end, and the light came on.“Thank goodness,” said Christine, and reached for a book.Penelope got out her sewing and sat down on the low rocking-chair. She rocked as she sewed, and hummed: “How lovely the sea is.” Christine’s eyes followed the print with determination, striving against the distraction of Penelope’s rocking and humming. She felt the thought of Nicholas had worn a painful furrow in her brain, and her mind ran up and down in it like a trapped mouse.
The record came mercifully to an end, and the light came on.“Thank goodness,” said Christine, and reached for a book.Penelope got out her sewing and sat down on the low rocking-chair.
I don’t know how we’ve got through the last few days, I don’t really."Christine could not pay much attention to what Harrison was saying.
I’ll stay here with you till it’s ready.”She wandered round the kitchen table, lifted the blind and looked into the dark garden, came to stand by the fire.“Oh, madam,” said Harrison, more talkative by night than ever she was by day.
I really liked this, although I thought the way the story meandered from character to character before settling on Christine was a bit weird.I also have to say, I was a little bit thrown by the ending....specifically when it's announced that war has been averted.
I actually thought it was meant to be a signal that all the loose ends being tied up so neatly and happily was really the opposite of what happened.
The story refers to it being September, and I assumed it was meant to be September of 39 (I couldn't find any more specifics of what month the book was published).

I simply adored this book— the style, the humanism, the compelling portraits of the women, and the gentle humor. Whipple manages to convey the harsh limitations placed on wimen, without depriving them of resources and strengths. Nurse Pye is a character Dicken would have appreciated.
I think I discovered a new favorite genre. I need more!
It is thanks to bloggers like Karen that I became aware at all of such mid-century gems like The Priory, which was first published in 1939.This is a longish book (over 500 pages) and it doesn’t really have a central plot, but rather 4 or 5 subplots that weave throughout.
She felt she must look like Bessy when she appeared in answer: eager, afraid that she had kept someone waiting.”This isn’t a spoiler since I won’t say what happens, but at first I felt the ending of The Priory was completely unrealistic.
This is the second Whipple novel I've read, and I enjoyed The Priory even more than I did Someone at a Distance, which is widely considered Whipple's best.
This one tells the story of the Marwood family, who live in Saunby Priory, a falling-to-pieces estate in the English countryside.
Whipple, instead, takes us on a tour of the tiny moments on which emotions pivot within the characters.
I love Whipple's characters.
There are no heroes and there are no villains; part of the wonder of this book is that one can pity, love, and despise each character in turn, and in the end, rather liking them all.
This is one of Persephone's beautiful reprints of a forgotten gem - these books look stunning, and one day I'd love the full set.
This one was originally published in 1939, and was both written and set in the late 30s, after the worst of the 1920s great depression, but before people had fully recovered.
Interestingly, the book ends on a note of hope - Chamberlain has got "Peace for our time" and they all feel as though they've come through a near miss - the final scenes must have been written and sent to the publisher within a very short time.
It was a gentle book, but one I really enjoyed.
I am a fan of Persephone books and love Dorothy Whipple's writing.
No flaws, they say, forgetful of their own, and if they find flaws, they take their love back and turn sadly away.'The fact that the novel ends in 1939 and was first published in 1939 gives it extra poignancy, knowing just how long a shadow WWII was about to cast over the lives of families such as the Marwoods, the Ashwells and their many servants.
In fact, I wonder what Dorothy Whipple would have made of a sequel, following their fate during and after the war years.
I do love these stories about the English upper class who are "poor" but have huge estates and many, many servants.
This book starts out introducing the reader to the inhabitants of The Priory from the aloof, incompetent master to servants who depend on their jobs for fear of something worse than servitude.
It's not all idyllic tea parties though as harsh reality sets in after the bloom of love fades for various couples.
I agree with others that the ending left something to be desired.
I would have liked the story to continue to see how the characters would have dealt with the war.
I other words I didn't want this to end.
