https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17914.The_Real_Thing
Don't be fooled by the title; this isn't a play about Coke or Faith No More's best album (you watch; I'll get an argument on that last one) but rather a searching character piece about LOVE.To be more specific, it explores the nature of love and how it means different things to different people.
It includes betrayal, devotion, sex, parental love and that old favourite, unrequited love.It also includes a brief exploration of highbrow and lowbrow art which, I suspect, is meant to draw a parallel with the nature of love...
December of Drama 2015, day seventeen"If you want a lover, I'll do anything you ask me to.And if you want another kind of love, I'll wear a mask for you."--I'm Your Man, by Leonard CohenThere are some who would call this "a fine play," and it is.
There are others who will call it "a clever play," and it's that, too.
But it's not just fine, nor merely clever.
Here's one memorable little passage:"I don't think writers are sacred, but words are.
This is a great play for readers, writers, and lovers.
Even though the characters and incredibly flawed, I appreciated their vulnerability and desire to stay together despite the fact that their relationship was getting difficult.
Stoppard does a great job portraying two characters who don't want to stay together because of a buildup of tension and yet who still feel compelled to remain.
But somehow--and they are surprised by this--they want to stay together despite all this.
A word about the understandability of this play: In his work Stoppard is often engaged in metaphysics, chaos theory, erudite history, and loads of other obscure and hard to understand devices--that's part of his charm and intrigue.
It’s not too hard a thing, to start reading plays.
I hesitate to say I like any given author.
I thin I really want to say that I enjoy Stoppard.
And I dont’ think this play has had me turn away from Stoppard.
I guess.But as briefly mentioned, Stoppard as funny and intellectual and himself as can be, I think – and though I have a collection of 5 plays of his in a book here, I am too cautious to read them all at once, lest one blend into the next (as with Ibesn, or even O’Neill to me).
Henry is married to first one, then the other: "To marry one actress is unfortunate, to marry two is simply asking for it."Stoppard puts his gift for verbal gymnastics into Henry's mouth and we watch Henry struggle (eloquently) to articulate how he feels about the women in his life, his job, and the intersection of the two.
His monologue with the cricket bat pretty much sums up how I feel about writing.In 1999 I spent a summer in London taking a theatre course; I saw some 25 plays in a month.
Tom Stoppard is a genius and I'll read and watch anything with his name on it.
Very enjoyable play about love (when is it "the real thing"?).
The play centers around Henry (a playwright) and Annie (an actress); as often in Stoppard's plays, certain scenes & phrases repeat throughout the play with small variations.
In this play one of the repeating scenes is of a wife returning home after a trip to a husband who thinks he has evidence of her infidelity -- sometimes the husband is mistaken, sometimes the wife has lied but not been unfaithful, sometimes he is correct.
I found the different aspects of jealousy interesting, but some aspects of the play were a bit dated (a rant at the beginning about digital watches for example).
A play that concerns love, lust, honesty, writing - what more could I want?Soundtrack:Hot Violins - Joe Venuti, Eddie South, Clifford Hayes, Emilio Cacares, Stuff Smith, et. al.Ornette Coleman: Virgin BeautyMingus Plays PianoJ.S. Bach: Cello Suites - Anner Bylsma (1992)This probably sounds as pretentious as Henry's Desert Island Discs in the play, but we all are what we are.
Heart-wrenching! So eh, I decided to give it an extra star . . . for the language in it. I came back to get a quote, and ended up reading the whole play. It's such a pleasure to read!
In the opening act, we meet Max and Charlotte, a married couple.
Next we meet Henry and Annie.
Henry is a writer and a playwright.
In an attempt to learn about classical music, Henry begins listening to classical recordings.
It’s in Italian.Henry: Is it?
Verdi.Annie: Which one?Henry: Giuseppe.
(Confidently) Madama Butterfly.Later, Annie and Henry get into a conversation about the different ways that they look at things in the world.
It starts:“Henry: There is, I suppose, a world of objects which have a certain form, like this coffee mug.
But there is something real here which is always a mug with a handle.
This play about fidelity and infidelity may be self serving, if Stoppard's private life is considered, but that doesn't stop it being sharp, clever, acid, insightful, witty, elegant, highly structured, and all the things that seem to be his hallmark.The structure is tricksy but so smoothly done as to be invisible without looking for it.
Some of the diversions are brilliant - the cricket bat, though others less so - digital watches.
Overall this is more accessible than other Stoppard plays in emotional terms and a little rawer.
The idea that "Mirage and reality merge in love" finds its perfect theatrical portrayal here. Plays are performed within plays; lives are re-written as lies; and re-written as difficult and hard to swallow truths about the human heart; all the while love--the most intangible asset of them all--finds itself buried in bowl of vegetable dip--the comical mimetic counterpart of Chekhov's gun. A brilliant play on every level.
Fun if you're in the mood for it. Love is not an easy topic to pick, but Stoppard delivers a fresh and "theatrical" look I'd love to see "in the flesh" so as to revel in the "about turns" and deceptions. Just what is this thing called love? called real thing? Who is acting what part?
https://www.brainpickings.org/2015/01...
Review: The Real Thing, Night and Day, Travesties by Tom Stoppard I recently hear a technically brilliant, world famous organist and composer play one of his more difficult works. As I expected, it was technically brilliant, and arid. It recalled many technically brilliant works for the piano written during, principally, the Romantic period: brilliant, but arid. Spoiler alert: if technical brilliance is your touchstone in valuing music and drama, skip this review. “Henry : Or perhaps I’d realize
Review: The Real Thing, Night and Day, Travesties by Tom Stoppard	I recently hear a technically brilliant, world famous organist and composer play one of his more difficult works.
There is, I suppose, a world of objects which have a certain form, like this coffee mug.
“Ruth: ‘Alli,’ I said, ‘how are things in London with all those millionaires controlling your freedom to report?’ ‘I don’t think I quite follow you, Mummy,’ he said.
This premise was that people were a sensational kind of material object and would behave predictably in a material world.
The painting is not finding its borders yet, I remembered Jeremy Irons reading this long, convoluted monologue about cricket:HENRY: This thing here, which looks like a wooden club, is actually several pieces of particular wood cunningly put together in a certain way so the whole thing is sprung, like a dance floor.
(He clucks his tongue to make the noise) What we're trying to do is to write cricket bats, so that when we throw up an idea and give it a little knock, it might...travel...
There's a reason that this play is one of my all-time favorites from Stoppard, and this is it:Words don’t deserve that kind of malarkey.
They’re innocent, neutral, precise, standing for this, describing that, meaning the other, so if you look after them you can build bridges across incomprehension and chaos.
But when they get their corners knocked off, they’re no good any more....
I don’t think writers are sacred, but words are.
This doesn't make for a particularly easy read.The two central characters, Henry and Annie, are constantly professing their love for each other, but our understanding of what those three words mean is constantly changing throughout the play.
Even though I couldn't pin down what Stoppard's vision of "The Real Thing" might be, I'm convinced this play has some of the most honest and true dialogue about love I've ever read, particularly the moment Annie tells Henry: "You have to find a part of yourself where I'm not important or you won't be worth loving." That line alone has made me head straight away to the next Stoppard Play.
HENRY: I can't help somebody who thinks, or thinks he thinks, that editing a newspaper is censorship, or that throwing bricks is a demonstration hile building tower blocks is social violence, or that unpalatable statement is provocation while disrupting the speaker is the exercise of free speech .
Words don't deserve that kind of malarkey.
THey're innocent, neutral, precise, standing for this, describing that, meaning the other, so if you look after them you can build bridges across incomprehension and chaos.
So everything he builds is jerry-built.
I don't think writers are sacred, but words are.
They deserve respect.
I picked this up after reading Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead, a play also written by Tom Stoppard.
That play made me expect a lot from Stoppard.
It's about trying to discover what real love is, and how sometimes what seems like love isn't "the real thing." I should have known that I wouldn't enjoy a play all about love.
I would have given this one star, but the play-within-a-play (along with the wordplay mentioned earlier) earned The Real Thing a second star.
I didn't enjoy this play, but someone interested in its themes certainly would.
This story is basically a commentary on love and relationships and has so many poignant moments that I had to stop taking note of the quotes that I liked because there were simply too many of them.
Each character has a vastly different idea of what love is and what a successful relationship looks like.
Typical Stoppard, there isn't much happening plot-wise in the story.
Rather, the audience just gets short glimpses into the lives of people as they laugh, cry, argue and love one another.It's a beautiful, quick read.
Quite good, very clever.
Did read again, actually, since I had forgotten I already read it before.Three stars only because I'm comparing this to other Stoppard plays -- R&G are Dead, Arcadia, which blow my mind.I think one of the things that bugs me is that the play is about finding love, "the real thing," but while we certainly see a lot of things that *aren't* "the real thing," it never makes that final connection.
It feels like the final scene(s) are supposed to get us there, but by this point, the relevant character has proved himself so clever and aloof throughout the play that it's hard for me to believe that he has changed or can change.
i'm wondering if there are two Tom Stoppards out there or if there was a problem when i uploaded the audio cd's to my ipod.
i listened (while running - adding insult to injury!!!
what turned me off most were the really silly/crappy grandpa-esque wordplay jokes/humor that the audience seemed to find hysterical.
And the little bit in the beginning about "the swiss not going digital" really wasnt that clever or amusing...
this is coming from the mind of a purportedly brilliant playwright?
this is my introduction to the character and supposed to establish his brilliance?
hmmmm.
Good performance, great play. This is my favorite Stoppard play, but until I listened to this version, I hadn’t realized how much of my appreciation was for the original production. This version is competently done (not easy when converting a stage play to audio-only), but it does under-emphasize some of my favorite lines. (This production also misses, through no fault of its own, the Stoppardian mixing of fiction and reality, past and future, of a an adulterous playwright writing a play about an adulterous playwright writing a play about adultery, who ends up committing adultery with the star in reality.)
It's hard for me to rate this play.
I ABHOR the characters.
There is nothing redeemable about them in my opinion, and they spend the play giving you more reasons to dislike them.
Towards the end I found myself feel empathetic toward Henry, but that was a brief, fleeting moment.
That being said, I also feel that this play is an excellent, spot-on examination of modern relationships.
After you read it, you realize what a sad and depressing statement it makes about the future of adult romanitc relationships.
The characters are FLAKY, people in life are flaky - there is no hope left on earth.
"He loves me, and he wants to punish me with his pain, but I can't come up with the proper guilt.
I'm sort of irritated by it.
It's so tiring and uninteresting.
You never write about that, you lot.
Gallons of ink and miles of typewriter ribbon expended on the misery of the unrequited lover; not a word about the utter tedium of the unrequiting."This mid-career?
(1984) play has more emotional depth than Stoppard's early comedies.
Infidelity causes real pain in this one.
But it's Stoppard, and therefore funny as hell in places.
The 1983 edition has some lovely stills of Jeremy Irons and Glenn Close.
I would not have chosen to read this at all, and I probably could have done something else in the hour it took me to read this and not wasted my time on studying this play.I absolutely couldn't understand any of the characters views on love! It was so sceptical and it simply irritated me that I couldn't connect to the play and what was described as love was not love to me, it was just lust and boredom.On the plus side it was indeed well thought out. It was clearly erll-structured, I just didn't like the story itself.
I have seen this performed once, and read it many times, but not for years.
It is still powerful, especially the way it echoes and re-echoes, and that moment when you step through the first veil and wonder if there are more.
It seems quite clear to me that this is good, very good, unlike much of the other drama I have been reading, but I still do not really understand why, and of course I continue to believe that most drama is written to be performed and so how it reads is not all there is to it.
But for reading, I love Stoppard.
A creative look at the evolution of love in a couples' relationship.I love you so use me. Be indulgent, negligent, preoccupied, premenstrual... your credit is infinite. I'm yours, I'm committed.It's no trick loving somebody at their best. Love is loving them at their worst. Is that romantic? Well, good. Everything should be romantic. Love, work, music, literature, virginity, loss of virginity...
A very interesting play by one of the best playwrights working today, Tom Stoppard. It has some very interesting things to say about the nature of love, how we as human beings relate to each other. And also, what "the real thing" is in a relationship. I do have to say that the character of Annie seems so reprehensible, it's almost a misogynistic character. I'd be interested in knowing how women felt about this character.
"Well, I remember, the first time I succumbed to the sensation that the universe was dispensable minus one lady."Stoppard's play (a play within a play, really) takes a look at love and infidelity. There were some good lines, but I definitely enjoyed some of his other plays more. The great point of this one, though, is that true love isn't "literary." It can't be expressed by Shakespeare or Stoppard, or me or you; it is forever inexplicable--chaotically, messily, and beautifully.
