https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588138.The_Hero_With_a_Thousand_Faces
This story is told in millions of different ways, but ultimately every story ever told is either just a retelling of this grand story, or it is a re-telling of certain aspects of this more complete story.I read, probably about a decade ago now, that if you submit a screenplay to Disney for consideration they basically use the myth cycle to ‘judge’ the worthiness of your script.
So, rather than take this work as the last word on the structure of stories and the monomyth and the possibilities of self-transcendence, this is a book that is better read as an introduction to thinking about literature as a way of coming to understand our own lives.And what better task is there?
I felt like Campbell was trying too hard to prove his knowledge, which was apparent in the great diversity of myths referenced in the work, but he failed to logically plan the layout of the text.
I can understand the overall layout of the text, but it didn't work on the chapter/section scale.
I found myself wondering, “Who is the audience of the book?” At times, it was written for colleges and students of mythology and philosophy, but in other passages it was written for those with a rudimentary knowledge of mythology.Another complaint I had was that Campbell often cited dreams in his arguments about the “monomyth,” but did little to tie those dreams to the myths or topics he was discussing in the section.
He sees the common threads linking Buddha to Jesus, Tezeus to Viracocha or to Cuchulain : the personalities (heroes, prophets, gods, role models) that stand out of the crowd and define what it means to be human, to be alive, to transcend the limits of the flesh.Campbell calls his conclusion of the study  The Monomyth  : the fundamental structure that appears in different disguises in all the stories, mythologies, fables and folktales he comes across: My hope is that a comparative elucidation may contribute to the perhaps not-quite-desperate cause of those forces that are working in the present world for unification, not in the name of some ecclesiastical or political empire, but in the sense of human mutual understanding.
It saved both my step-father's ass and my soul.I have always been a fan of mythology and folklore, and Joseph Campbell pulls tales from many cultures to show how mankind has virtually the same heroic journey tucked away in its subconscious regardless of culture or even time.
They are meant to be sources of inspiration that a person of flesh can turn to in order to face a harsh reality with courage.Here's how this book saved a soul and an ass.
Shortly after reading this my drunken violent step-father got out of line with me.I had pushed back against my step-father for years, but suddenly this fight went very different.
Then during my early twenties, I discovered Campbell and said to myself: "Voila!
Somebody has noticed it before me!" Ever since then, I've been a Campbell fan.The structure of the monomyth is so prevalent in many hero cycles, fairy tales, children's stories and popular films so it's a wonder how anybody can miss it.
Campbell does an exhaustive job of digging through various mythologies of the world and bringing the similarities to light.Whether you are a serious student of myth or just an ordinary person who loves stories, this book will hold you spellbound.
ـ عناصر (الأسطورة وحيدة الاتجاه) هي نظرية كامبل التي حاول أن يستخلصها من خلال تلك الدراسة، دورة حياة تلك الأسطورة والتي تروى بألف شكل ويبقى جوهرها ورموزها الداخلية واحدة، بدءًا من رحلة مغامرة البطل حيث (النداء)، نداء الحياة أو نداء الموت، نداء من الظلام والمجهول وصولًا لعتبة المغامرة حيث حراس المدخل يمكن للبطل أن يهزمهم عبر قوى سحرية أو عون خارجي أو أن يمر بسلام أو يمزق .
Myths are essential to our lives because they reveal what is culturally important to us and they flourish via story telling—from the oral tradition of yore to the modern bits & gigabytes, one generation passes on its stories to the next & thusly our Collective Unconscious thrives.Joseph Campbell's stated aim was to "uncover some of the truths disguised for us under the figures of religion and mythology by bringing together a multitude of not-too-difficult examples and letting the ancient meaning become apparent of itself."He felt that we must learn the grammar of the symbols, and as a key to that mystery considered psychoanalysis the best modern tool to serve as an approach: "The second step will be then to bring together a host of myths and folk tales from every corner of the world, and to let the symbols speak for themselves."Campbell then presents a multitude of heroic figures through the classic stages of the universal adventure (Monomyth) to reveal "the singleness of the human spirit in its aspirations, powers, vicissitudes, and wisdom."The Hero of the Monomyth thus assumes thousand faces across religions & cultures, showing universal generic affinities shared by the mythic tradition.
Joseph Campbell has done a lot of good work in this book and others.
Unfortunately the good of the work was research.
As this mass began to climb the rope snapped, and so people were forever cut off from the earth.One day a Rakshasa approached Shiva and demanded his wife, Parvati.
Shiva now lost patience and created a monstrous creature, designed to eat the intruder.
At the sight of this fearsome beast the Rakshasa fell to his knees and begged for mercy, which Shiva duly, and graciously, granted.
On hearing this reasonable complaint Shiva instructed the creature to eat itself, which it duly did.
This is one of those books which is very difficult to read. Campbell offers mythology examples from all over the world to build his framework. It is a book you need to read slowly to digest it, and read you should - the framework for the hero is important!
It has taken me years to heed the advice of friends and family and read the thing (don’t wait as long as I did), but I’ve finished with a renewed sense of what it means to be an artist/writer/human and a perceived momentum I’ve found nowhere else.
I’ve also placed myself firmly in the Campbell camp of dissecting story structure (suck it Robert Mckee, or better yet eat all the unread pages of your highfalutin book that no one I’ve spoken to has bothered to finish!).
While being the first book to explore the interconnections between cultures across the globe through mythology, Campbell's use of Freudian psychology does not do his thesis much credit. He also appears to be taking some of the "myths" that I am familiar with a little out of context so that they fit as proof to some of his points. While the thoughts contained within this book are interesting and provoke a good conversation about the interconnections of all human cultures, the foundation with which Campbell built up his book is questionable.
Read it. Read it and marvel.
I'm assuming it's is a dude because....we'll....1 star.Anyway....Lone Star quips that [Joseph Campbell] 'failed to logically plan the layout of the text' and didn't 'work on the the chapter section/scale.'That same user gave an (admittedly cool af looking) graphic novel 5 stars.Ok. So would Lone Star have given Campbells masterwork an additional star or two if it were limited to 30 pages, and illustrated with Manga style pictures and word bubbles?
Every one who believes in destiny, in dreams, and in the universality of human experience and their particular stories should, at least once in their lifetime, read this book.
یکی از مهم ترین آثاری که در مورد اساطیر و اسطوره شناسی نوشته شده است.بدون شک یکی از تاثیرگذارترین کتاب ها بر روی صنعت سینما و هالیوود کتاب قهرمان هزار چهره نوشته جوزف کمپل است.این کتاب به معرفی و دسته بندی قصه ها و اسطوره های ملل می پردازد و از بین آنها به دنبال یافتن فرمولی برای روایت داستان می گردد.فرمولی که از ابتدا در میان قبایل بدوی شکل گرفته و همچنان در دنیای امروز قدرت خود را برای روایت داستانهای شورانگیز حفظ کرده است.قهرمان هزارچهره مشهورترین و بهترین اثر جوزف کمپل، نویسنده و اسطورهشناس
یکی از مهم ترین آثاری که در مورد اساطیر و اسطوره شناسی نوشته شده است.بدون شک یکی از تاثیرگذارترین کتاب ها بر روی صنعت سینما و هالیوود کتاب قهرمان هزار چهره نوشته جوزف کمپل است.این کتاب به معرفی و دسته بندی قصه ها و اسطوره های ملل می پردازد و از بین آنها به دنبال یافتن فرمولی برای روایت داستان می گردد.فرمولی که از ابتدا در میان قبایل بدوی شکل گرفته و همچنان در دنیای امروز قدرت خود را برای روایت داستانهای شورانگیز حفظ کرده است.قهرمان هزارچهره مشهورترین و بهترین اثر جوزف کمپل، نویسنده و اسطوره‌شناس مشهور آمریکایی است که سیر و سفر درونی انسان را در قالب قهرمانان اسطوره‌ای پی می‌گیرد و با بررسی قصه‌ها و افسانه‌های جهان نشان می‌دهد که چطور این کهن الگو در هر زمان و مکان خود را در قالبی جدید تکرار می‌کند تا انسان را به سیر و سفر درونی و شناخت نفس راهنمایی کند.کمپل در این کتاب بسیاری از نمادهای مذهبی و اسطوره‌ای جهان را بررسی کرده و با در کنار هم قرار دادن آنها نشان داده است که چطور افسانه‌ها و نمادهای اقوام و مذاهب مختلف، معادل و موازی یکدیگرند.
I love mythology.
So a book that traces the similarities between all mythological cannons sounds like a stroke of genius.
Ok, fine, I can deal the fact that there's far more going on in dreams than I care to admit.
I've never liked dreams, I groan when a character has a dream in a book I'm reading.
I'm sure the fact that I hardly ever remember my dreams plays a role in my animosity.
The point is, I picked up a book on mythologies and found it was about dreams.
Hardly the last word on stories and how they shape our lives, but a brilliant place to start.Analyzes collective world mythologies, and boils them down into their component parts and recreating the story of our own lives - the monomyth. Incredibly interesting stuff.
Joseph Campbell's construction-and-deconstruction of the "monomyth" has hugely influenced storytelling, and rightly earned its central position in any discussion of story structure and cultural analysis.
The rest of the book proves more useful...My favorite pieces were recountings of the myths themselves: Joseph Campbell's expertise was in collecting myths from around the world, and it was fascinating to hear wide-ranging stories from Native American, Indian, Chinese, Norse, African and other cultures.
While he can provide a couple examples from various cultures for each stage of his journey, I would point out that no one myth perfectly matches the complete template.
Campbell wants us (and I believe he is right here) to see myths as something outside of science or history, and to show the universality of many myths; but other than a half-hearted conclusion, it is not clear how one is supposed to believe in and take heart in, say, the myth of Jesus or Kali, if there is also known a more vague and peripheral truth to all things besides it.
I believe Campbell should have stuck to the Hero in particular and at times given more familiar examples of the Hero from myth.-All that being said, I did enjoy this book 80-90% of the time.
ذهن از ادراک برخی مسائل ناتوان است و از جنبه های قابل توجه کتاب توجه به شباهت اسطوره ها با یکدیگر در جغرافیا و مکان های متفاوت است.اسطوره ها در طول تاریخ دچار تغییر و تحول می شوند چرا که نویسنده بنا بر باورها و ایده های شخصی خود ممکن است تصویری جدید از یک شخصیت اسطوره ای به دست دهد پس اوضاع و احوالات شخصی و اجتماعی در بسط یک شخصیت اسطوره ای دخیل است .در شرایط اجتماعی و سیاسی حاکم اسطوره پر رنگ یا کم رنگ جلوه میکند مثلن در یک باور فمینیستی برداشت از اسطوره میتواند مبانی فمینیستی پیدا کرده باشد و متوجه شاخصه زنانه باشد.
The laws of the City of God are applied only to his in-group (tribe, church, nation, class, or what not) while the fire of a perpetual holy war is hurled (with good conscience, and indeed a sense of pious service) against whatever uncircumcised, barbarian, heathen, “native,” or alien people happens to occupy the position of neighbor.” I love this book.
That happened a lot with this book.
I had taken it with me on a trip, and on several flights I literally read 10 or so pages, and thought the rest of the time.
As I read this, I compared it to fasting.
Okay, that's not really a fair label; Campbell knows what he's talking about and he knows what he intends to say, and sometimes he's almost poetic, but being uninterested either in Freudianism or understanding my place in the universe on some abstract theological level, I was more interested in his analysis of world mythology and how it relates to storytelling.
But boy was he into Freud and Jung, which means one gets the impression from this book that every single element in every myth is highly symbolic and has some relationship to our deep-seated mommy/daddy issues.The Hero with a Thousand Faces first defines what Campbell calls the "monomyth," then goes on to describe all the stages of the Hero's Journey, of which (according to Campbell) every myth is another retelling.
No, I'm not setting Campbell up as a prophet or anything like that, indeed, I suspect that this book's greatness lies in the eternal truths that transcend Campbell's individual personality.
The first half of the book deals with this cycle on a more individual and personal level (the microcosm), while the second half deals with the greater cosmogonic importance (the macrocosm.) Now, the really amazing part of all this is that virtually all of it comes across as meaningful, interesting, and totally nonacademic.
I've read this particular edition three times now- it is well designed and manufactured and has resonable sized print.
On the plus side, it is indeed fascinating to put myths from very different points in time and space beside each other to note the similarities; Campbell is consistent and clinical in subjecting the Bible to the same scrutiny as any other culture; and for myself, I learned a thing or two about Cuchulain, not just a local hero and contributor to Ulster geography but in fact an exemplar of several different widely found characters in folklore.But I found the structure rather confusing, both at macro and at micro level.
Kitapta bulmayı beklediğim şey bambaşka bir şeydi, bu nedenle yeterli ilgi ve merakı gösteremiyorum. Üst başlıklara dair verdiği örnekleri bahsettiği mesele ile ilişkilendirmekte biraz zayıf kalmış gibi hissettim ve kitaptan gittikçe koptum. Kitap üstün körü okunmayı hak etmediği için başa bir zamana erteliyorum.
His Christian and Western reading of world myths continues right up to the apex of his Hero pattern, then he surprisingly announces that Christianity has forgotten the true end of the journey.
Campbell has been inspired by the myths he’s read, and tries to illuminate the beauty and the Capital T Truth he’s encountered.
Campbell began life as a James Joyce scholar, and his book on Joyce is absolutely required reading.
Campbell has much to say about the Theseus myth that I found particularly inspiring and thought-provoking, the nature of the curse of the house of Minos.His take on the story of Diana and Actaeon, the hunter who stumbled across her in her bath, is fascinating, a part of his overall view that a refusal to engage with the sexy earthy part of life is the downfall of many a mythological figure--and that Diana is no one to emulate.
In attempting to show the general patterns of mythology and their significance ( for which he relied on psychoanalysis, which was horribly misguided: Campbell notices himself that analyzing myths as scientific/historic artifacts is wrong; why should a psychoanalytical approach be right?) he presents a ton of examples for every stage, yet in doing so, removes them from their inherent context.
Of course a lot of stories will point towards the same thing if we force the same meaning unto them ( I obviously can't speak for all the examples given, but for the ones I do know something about, I can see how he is twisting/ignoring their inherent point to force them into an universal pattern).
This has been a lengthy study of reading and listening and taking notes. I've summarized this book in a way that accommodates my number one goal: self-development.  Departure  1. The Call to Adventure: the future Hero is wounded, and the cause of his wound is projected outwardly: an obstacle, a blunder, an enemy.2. Refusal of the Call: the Hero falls back into the comfort and safety of parental figures, dependence and infantilism (male's mother complex).3. Supernatural Aid: the Hero receives aid
2. The Magic Flight: if the Hero obtains the boon by a transgression that angers the god-ogre Father, then he must flee in fear and overcome the obstacles the ogre might put in his way.
"Man in the world of action loses his centering in the principle of eternity if he is anxious for the outcome of his deeds, but resting them and their fruits on the knees of the Living God he is released by them, as by a sacrifice, from the bondages of the sea of death.""Do without attachment the work you have to do ...
The preliminary meditations of the aspirant detach his mind and sentiments from the accidents of life and drive him to the core.
Mr. So-and-so, having discovered himself big with man, becomes indrawn and aloof… The aim is not to see, but to realize that one is, that essence; then one is free to wander as that essence in the world.
The essence of oneself and the essence of the world: these two are one.
Thus, just as the way of social participation may lead in the end to a realization of the All in the individual, so that of exile brings the hero to the Self in all.
