https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170599.You_Can_t_Take_it_With_You
This play is begging for new productions. Written in the 1930s, it seems entirely current. War on terror? Recession? Suburban sprawl? Copyright vs. sharing works for free? All in there. Remarkable.
Alice, the seemingly responsible daughter, loses plenty of sleep over her growing affection for the boss's son, Tony Kirby, a smart young man of a Wall Street family.There's almost no evidence that anyone in the household actually earns a living, but somehow they manage to sustain a relatively good lifestyle, even supporting a kitchen maid named Rheba and her handyman boyfriend Donald.
The premise, makes plenty of escapist sense in a high-unemployment economy — no one really needs money to live; all that's really needed is for a bunch of lovable loonies to jump in a boat together and row, even if, especially if, they're all pulling in different directions.The broke-but-happy Sycamore clan is in contrast to the wealthy, uptight Kirbys (Tony's workaholic investment-banker father and spiritualist/socialite mother), when the inevitable get-acquainted dinner goes dreadfully awry.
Funny and endearing.
SIX WORD REVIEW: Tony & Alice = Tony & Maria = Romeo & Juliet.
I had heard such great things about this play and was really excited to read it (and possibly stage it).
In fact, I even read somewhere that, for high schoolers, it is the most produced play of all time.
Unfortunately, I'm not sure what all the fuss is about.It's quirky, yes.
There are funny parts, naturally.
There's not much character development or dynamism, and the reversal at the end felt unnatural.
The character the audience is presumably supposed to admire the most essentially advocates hedonism.
The play delivers some laughs, but they leave a bad aftertaste in my mouth.
The thing that stuck out to me the most would have to be the character Paul.
I like him because his profession is making fireworks.
Since I was a little kid being a pyrotechnition has been my dream career.
Another thing that was good about this play was it wasn’t very long.
Since I didn’t really enjoy the play it was nice that it was only like 70 pages.
The worst thing about the play to me was the fact that it was old.
It was written in the 1930s.
It was supposed to be a comedy but I didn’t real
Another thing that was good about this play was it wasn’t very long.
Since I didn’t really enjoy the play it was nice that it was only like 70 pages.
The worst thing about the play to me was the fact that it was old.
The people in the 30s are like my grandmas age and we don’t think the same things are funny, nor do we understand each other’s humor.
I don’t ever plan on reading another one of their plays.
After reading the play I didn’t really take anything away from it.
A modern classic that is as timely today as it was when written (first produced in 1936).
A crazy but lovable family that everyone can recognize; everyone has a crazy Uncle Louie or eccentric Aunt Fanny.
The family home is also occupied by various friends, neighbors, suitors, servants, guests and finally G-men!
Kaufman and Hart were brilliant comedic writers, and this play holds up beautifully even after 80 years.
It is regularly the most produced play in American high schools, and is also performed around the world.Go see a local performance; you won't be sorry!
I started reading this play and thought to myself, "if my family ever acted like this, I'd slap them all and leave as quickly as I could". By the time I got to the end of the play, I felt much better about my own family as well as the family in the play. Some great points are made in this riotous comedy, and ultimately it's very sweet.
My school put on this play for Fall show. Its a great comedy with wonderful characters. I found that most of the characters in the play resembled my own family members, but then again, the bonds between the family members in You Can't Take It With You are ones that (one would hope) are shared between family members today. You Can't Take It With You- what a charming little play!
Saw this play in February starring Fran Kranz and James Earl Jones among others. One of the funniest things I've ever seen. Now I'm auditioning for it at my theater. So, I decided to read it. Brought back all the laughs. A hilarious time with wonderful characters and great heart.
A cute and heartfelt play that made me yearn for another crazy family gathering and maybe for a few weeks to spend in the 30's.
I had so much fun reading this. Even the stage directions had me laughing. What a good time. It was more fun to read than to watch it being performed.
World famous title for an item from Mme Tussaud's wax works.
Great satirical play!
Kirby's background is much less developed in the play - the whole subplot involving property transactions, and the character of Mr Poppins, are inserted by Riskin into the film.
It's a bit more misogynistic (as I said, two extra female characters who are only there as figures of fun, and Mrs Kirby gets a harder time) and more racist (Donald gets treated worse).
There is a hilarious sequence during the Kirbys' disastrous visit to the Vanderhof household, where Penny gets the Kirbys to play a word association game:[start]KIRBY.
And what was Mrs. Kirby's answer ?PENNY.
Go on, Mrs. Sycamore!PENNY.
"Sex—Wall Street."KIRBY.
Sex—Wall Street.MRS.
Hilarious! We were encouraged to read this in some economic resources we were using in our homeschool. My teen daughter and I really enjoyed the 1938 Frank Capra movie, which received Best Picture. The cast did an excellent job, and the scene where Grandpa is confronted by the IRS is priceless! https://youtu.be/1n03_MvqaN4
This play has so many issues with being offensive and dated, i.e. obviously the racial issues (at one point, the stage directions say a black character gives a “black look” ... ?!?) and the communism discussion. But it’s a pretty well-structured and entertaining play nonetheless. Interesting characters.
This is such a funny and cute play! I love the craziness of the Sycamores and the contrast between them and Tony's family. I'm not a huge fan of Alice however. You can't help but fall in love with these characters. I'm super excited to play Essie Carmichael in my local production.
This classic play is hysterical and has a timeless message. Sure, some of the references are dated and not PC, but the point is driven home that life isn't about money or possessions. Life is to be enjoyed.
I'd like to see a staged production of this. Reading it was alright but I definitely think this is a show that needs to be experienced live in order to truly be entertained by it.
Lost a star for its portrayal of black characters. Otherwise a funny play.
Charming and goofy. It is far from a revolutionary play, but I can see why it's one of the most performed productions at the high school level.
Great play, good situational comedy although outdated and with some racism.
https://gilwilson.wordpress.com/2018/...
Zany character-driven comedy. Great Capra movie based on it.
Great play, some wonderful ideas, all heightened by some very politically incorrect stage directions!
Finally!
ok but grandpa is me w/o mental illnesses
Outstanding, especially in its construction and execution. Best play I’ve read in a long time!
Cute script. Picks up a lot in Acts 2/3. Great message about what's important in life. Timeless!
