https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6150.Cry_the_Beloved_Country
This is a classic, written by a white South African about a time before apartheid.
Two fathers, one white, one black and their sons.
Also the speech is quite formal most of the time, which conveys some of the culture of the place, I expect.
Zulu pastor Stephen Kumalo and his son Absolom are the focus.
The man, an idealistic white, is the son of Kumalo’s neighbor out in the country.
Kumalo goes in search of his missing son, only to find him, and this horror, at the same time.
Characters are portrayed sympathetically, white and black.
It is indeed a classic.
Kumalo's daughter and son have fallen upon hard times, and it is up to the parson to use his influence within the church network to bring them to safety.Paton through his characterization of Absalom Kumalo and Arthur Jarvis, the man he is accused of murdering, reveals the disparity between generations in South Africa.
Arthur Jarvis' father James admits that his martyred son was of a brilliant mind, but he is not ready a unified South Africa in which blacks and whites live respectfully together.
In this era where race relations is unfortunately not a thing of the past, perhaps Cry, the Beloved Country would be an appropriate novel to discuss in high school English classes.
But mostly this isn't a highly quotable book; it's a beautifully written, riveting book where passages or entire halves of scenes are compelling streams of words, readily understandable for actions and conversations, and profound for their insights and suggestions into human life in adversity and prosperity.If you're going to write a borderline hopeless story, do it like this.
Last year, when deciding what I wanted to do - kind of like window shopping for lovely clothes -- I decided to read this book after reading Hamlet.
The moral imperative and subsequent hemming and hawing in Hamlet takes on a different light and life in the beautifully wrought quest into the valley of death by Stephen Kumalo.
After speaking with the captain on his way to death against the Polish, Hamlet finally has his epiphany.
For Stephen, the wasteland shifts, but the same 20,000 + on their way to death in a mine is the same moral imperative.
In the remote village of Ndotsheni, in the Natal province of eastern South Africa, the Reverend Stephen Kumalo receives a letter from a fellow minister summoning him to Johannesburg.
Kumalo undertakes the difficult and expensive journey to the city in the hopes of aiding Gertrude and of finding his son, Absalom, who traveled to Johannesburg from Ndotsheni and never returned.
دربارهٔ کشیشی فقیر و پیر به نام: استیون کومالو در روستای محروم و کوچک ایندوتشنی است که برای یافتن پسرش (ابسالم کومالو) به ژوهانسبورگ می‌رود.
I cant say enough about this book. It is lyrically written, reads almost like an epic out of Ireland. The dialog between characters is straightforward, and the book manages to give you a glimpse of Apartheid S. Africa, from the richest people, to the poor urban laborers, to the criminals, to the peaceful rural farmers trying to maintain their land after many years of neglect. This is a classic that I have read probably 3 or 4 times.My copy is beat to hell, but readable.
Just when I thought I had a handle on this book, it got really complicated.
After getting over the shock of how much South African history and turmoil were skimmed over or ignored completely in my history classes, I felt like this story outlined a pretty clear cut good guy vs an obvious bad guy.
My initial thoughts were that the natives were a perfectly content group of people who were just fine on their own until the Europeans stepped in and muddled up their entire culture.
At any rate, this story taught me a lot about South Africa and the westernized "help" that white people are so anxious to provide.
This is the story of South Africa, and it is the story of two fathers and two sons.
There is a moment in which the fathers meet face-to-face that contains everything there is of humanity and the struggle for understanding and compassion in men.
But it has not suited him to build something in the place of what is broken.In the midst of this chaos and struggle, Paton finds the wisdoms that make humans reflections of God. Msimangu says But there is only one thing that has power completely, and that is love.
Because when a man loves, he seeks no power, and therefore he has power.
He chooses, instead, to preface each line of dialogue with a dash.
Sometimes the dialogue is in the middle of a paragraph, with no indication it's spoken aloud.
It drove me crazy, having to re-read everything to figure out if someone was talking, or just thinking, or if it was just the writer giving us information.The story is set in South Africa, and it helped me understand why that country has been such a mess for so long.
It's interesting to see the effects of apartheid, the growing pains of a country trying to find equality for all races.
More than a story of racial inequality, social problems, and injustice (which is what I remember about the plot from high school), this is first and foremost a story of forgiveness and hope.There are many reasons for South Africa, the country commanded to “cry” in the title, to do just that: poverty and famine drive many to choose paths that are less than admirable, sometimes immoral.
To enjoy a book, I have to have a main character to at the least empathize with — Kumalo is one that I not only appreciate but admire.And the writing is downright lyrical in some places.
إبك, إيها البلد الحبيب, بقلم آلان باتونالمكان: جنوب أفريقيا, المشاكل: الأرض البوار, إختلال المجتمع القبلي-المدني, وكذلك الفصل العنصري, طبعا, أليست جنوب أفريقيا؟ أما الشخصية الرئيسية فهو رجل كنيسة, يتأمل, ويتألم, ويكابد لإنقاذ مايمكن إنقاذه.تتحدث الرواية عن القسيس الذي يزور جوهانسبرج, بحثا عن أخته وابنه اللذيّن التقمتهم المدينة المفترسة, فيدخل في دوامة خطرة.
الخوف من الظلم, من الجريمة, من إنهيار البلد الحبيب.
وفوق كل ذلك نرى وصفاً لفتنة الطبيعة الخلابة ممتزجة مع بساطة ساكني الريف فتمنح الذهن صفاء بعد الخوض في مدينة الجريمة والتشرد.يُجمع العديد من النقاد على أن هذه الرواية بقلم باتون هي أهم رواية في الأدب الجنوب أفريقي.
Finished reading another amazing classic !Cry, the Beloved Country is the deeply moving story of the Zulu pastor Stephen Kumalo and his son, Absalom, set against the background of a land and a people riven by racial injustice.
It makes you think outside of thebox , open your eyes on a lot of things .I had to stop reading several times to think , i just sit there , stare to the wall and think , about people , life , god and principles .
There is so much here to learn about hope, love ,forgiveness, and perseverance .Loved this book , highly recommend it !
What the..?!?!Why is this rating so high?This book was tortuous to read. Every page, DESPITE the wordings was worse than getting my eyelashes pulled.Oprah.Seriously? Seriously Oprah?Here's my summary of it:Man goes to find son who dies because he killed some guy, man goes back home.The end.
Beautiful writing, that is why this book gets four stars.
But what do I mean by beautiful writing?
It is not necessary to be religious to appreciate this book.You will be moved to tears.You will think: yes, this IS how life is, but dam we must go on fighting because along with sadness and injustice and wrong, there is beauty and kindness.
Perhaps if I had read it I would have appreciated the words less.
Some books demand that they be read slowly.I haven't said one word about what happens.
You must read the book to find out.
زمانی که ترس بر ملتی حکومت میکند؛ کیست که بتواند از سرزمین محبوب خود لذتی ببرد؟آلن بيتون
زمانی‌ که ترس بر ملتی حکومت می‌کند؛ کیست که بتواند از سرزمین محبوب خود لذتی ببرد؟آلن بيتون
Audiobook narrated by Frederick Davidson.And old man, a Zulu pastor in a small impoverished South African town, has lost three dear relatives to the big city.
And finally his son, Absalom, went to Johannesburg to look for his aunt, and he too has been swallowed up by the big city and no longer writes.
Their personal tragedy is the focus on the novel, but it is framed by the larger issues facing South Africa – the loss of tribal culture, poverty, flight to the already overcrowded city slums – and issues facing all humankind – justice, good governance, retribution, compassion, and forgiveness.
This was my first introduction to apartheid South Africa, and oh did it blow me away! Fantastic narrative concentrating on the human dimensions of a political tragedy. Thank God this abominable system is no more.
This was a deeply moving book that will stay with me for a long time.
I loved Paton's writing style...short, concise sentences and the dialogue written without quotation marks (as well as the social themes in the book) made this very reminiscent of another of my all-time favorites, The Grapes of Wrath.
The book looks at themes of equality and social justice in pre-apartheid South Africa from both sides of the race equation...and I found myself understanding and empathizing with characters on both ends of the spectrum.
My only regret is that I waited so long to read it.
Contrary to what the title suggests, this book highlights the hope in South Africa, even before the dark days of Apartheid really began.
Nor can one, living in the New South Africa, not appreciate the truth in the final statement: “I see only one hope for our country, and that is when white men and black men, desiring neither power nor money, but desiring only the good for their country, come together to work for it.I have one great fear in my heart, that one day when they are turned to loving, they will find we are turned to hating.” Beautifully written, this book is quotable on almost every page.

He realizes that he must reach out to help those in need or suffering and give to them selflessly; hence, creating a new tribe.Kumalo meets his brother, John, who has rejected the tribe but who has an incredible voice or speaking ability that others listen to, but he is corrupt and only thinks of himself.
James Jarvis is a country man like Kumalo and when his son is murdered he reads his notes discovering his son thought deeply about the racial problems and was trying to change the world to be a better place.
Let him not be too moved when the birds of his land are singing, nor give too much of his heart to a mountain or valley.
Below you is the valley of the Umzimkulu, on its journey from the Drakensberg to the sea; and beyond and behind the river great hill after great hill; and beyond and behind them, the mountains of Ingeli and East Griqualand.The grass is rich and matted, you cannot see the soil.
Where you stand the grass is rich and matted, you cannot see the soil.
This is one I wish I would have read long ago! Wonderfully written, thought-provoking, and though it was sorrowful subject matter, it was easy to read and understand. I recommend this one to all!
I love this book.
The author had the beautiful ability to write about the tragedies in South Africa and at the same time interweave a deeply moving story of two fathers having the worst experience of their lives.
The gripping sadness of the experience is overshadowed by the love and faith of a father who is just trying to do the right thing.
I highly recommend this book not only for reading pleasure but also for a look into human nature and life in South Africa - "a black man's country under white man's law.
One of South Africa's leading humanists, Alan Paton vividly captured his eloquent faith in the essential goodness of people." — Nelson Mandela* The book is Alan Paton's ode to his complex homeland—a land that Westerners have come to understand, in part, because of the eloquence of his passionate work.
Let him not laugh too gladly when the water runs through his fingers…for fear will rob him of all if he gives too much." This is a novel that will make you fall in love with South Africa—with her rich land, her struggles, her beauty, her passion and her people.
Yes, there is plot and structure and story, but the book isn't really about that.
It's about fathers love for their children, despite their choices, about love for one's country and homeland, even when its structure is not ideal or right.
It's about how wrong and right choices both effect not only ourselves but those around us with far-reaching ripples.
It's about poetry and beauty even in the ugliest of ashes.
It's a juxtaposition of the harshness of desolate land and when people are ugly to one another, with the beatify of a restored land and the soulful beauty of what happens when people choose to reach out.
It wasn't always clear who was talking or which characters were being spoken about, so I needed to re-read passages trying to make sense of what was happening, which removed me from the story.
I also felt a disconnect with all of the characters, I really didn't care about any of them, which wasn't what I expected from such an emotional book.
Perhaps this was due to the sentence structure, or perhaps I'm just cold and heartless, or maybe I've read too many other heartbreaking stories to be affected by this one.
This time I loved the story (fortunately some of the racial and political problems have been solved) but was also able to appreciate the beautiful, lyrical prose.
I have shed many tears while reading this, most in last section of the book, which is the section that brings some hope to the situation in a 1940's South Africa that is pre-apartheid but a country that is mostly inhabited by poor blacks under the thumb of a few rich whites.
On a personal level, I thought many times while reading this on the aptness of the title for the situation in my country today.
نویسنده آدم عمیقیست؛ چنان لحظات، صحنهها و حالات را توصیف میکند که فکر میکنی ساعتها به لایههای پنهان آن لحظه فکر کرده است.«بنال وطن» البته دور است از ما و ترجمه هم قدیمیست؛ این موضوع اتصال ما را با کتاب کم میکند و اگر هنر نویسندگی و بیان حالات فطری و هرزمانی انسانها نبود، ممکن بود از کتاب جدا شویم.داستان علاوه بر باورپذیر و پرجزئیات بودن، نگاه جالبی هم به مناقشات تاریخی سیاه و سفید در قارهی آفریقا دارد و مدام ما را میان حق دادن به سیاهها و سفیدها میگرداند، و البته پرواضح است که در این رفتوبرگشت،
نویسنده آدم عمیقی‌ست؛ چنان لحظات، صحنه‌ها و حالات را توصیف می‌کند که فکر می‌کنی ساعت‌ها به لایه‌های 
This book was truly one of the most moving books about compassion, forgiveness, hope, and love that I've ever read. I was so touched when I finished reading this book - my understanding and awareness of mercy and justice, and the charity one is capable was increased tenfold. It is my opinion that anyone who reads the story of Rev. Steven Kumalo, set in beautiful yet struggling South Africa, will walk away a better person for the experience.
