https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761732.Soul_of_the_Fire
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Chicken's Head Rose: "Soul of the Fire" by Terry Goodkind(Original Review, 2002) "Hissing, hackles lifting, the chicken's head rose.
Kahlan pulled back.
"Shoo," Kahlan heard herself whisper.
It sounded like a chicken, but in her heart she knew it wasn't.
This looked like a chicken, like most of the Mud People's chickens.
But this was no chicken.
This was evil manifest."In "Soul of the Fire" by Terry Goodkind.Goodkind is responsible for the worst thing ever written by a human being; the now legendary evil chicken scene (quote above).
First 3 books where OK, but read like teen erotic fantasy with a mix a of Fountain Head.
Then the 5th book had the evil chicken that was killing people, numerous gang bangs and gang rapes, and introduced new characters which the book was basically about and then (view spoiler)[they die at the end from STDs.
(hide spoiler)] Not to mention how the most powerful wizard turns into a bumbling idiot, Zed. If you enjoy logic don't read this garbage.
This book seriously insulted my intelligence.
Believe it or not the Evil chicken was actually the highlight of the book.
Amongst all the chickens running around the village, the Bird Man identifies one as a chicken who is not a chicken.If it was a fleeting reference it would have been fine but for the first quarter of the book, Richard chases after the flippen chicken and most of the conversations he has revolves around "Is it evil...yes, it is.
And worst of all, the chicken just ogles them in an evil way most of the time.Enough with the bloody chicken already.Then there is a conversation about magic disappearing and then...you guessed it...they go chasing after poultry again.Then Kahlan is outside running around in the rain.
Richard and Kahlan (and Zedd and the others) show up for like thirty more pages, and then it's time for 200 more pages of this new location and characters.
And then of course, Richard and Kahlan arrive at like, page 600, and both the Hakens and the Anders start doing all this bad shit to them, and you're meant to hate them all enough so that when we get to the point that Richard abandons them to the Order, you think it the right decision.
Zedd is always a fun character, and here he spends half the book as a raven, and he is STILL one of the more interesting things going on.
This book is a lot slower going than the previous four, perhaps because Terry Goodkind is putting a lot of focus on characters we have never heard of up until now.
At halfway through the book he picks up the pace though, and the last half of the book is actually very enjoyable.Still, not even close to being one of Goodkind's best books, and it took a strong recommendation from someone that had read the entirety of it to bring this book back out of the bookshelf.The big weakness of the book is, I think, that he tries to write a book that mainly revolves around political scheming and plotting, but neglects to give us the juicy details.
In light of this, Goodkind has to introduce a different plotline--the Imperial Order--in order to flesh out the story so that characters don't spend the pages reading books.The way he tackled the Imperial Order, however, was to introduce a bunch of new characters and give us a vision of a particular country's (Anderith) politics and habits in the face of cultural customs and bids from both the Imperial Order and the D'haran Empire.
At the end of the story, Richard feels the people have abandoned him, that they have betrayed him because they believed the lies of the Ander leadership (campaigning simultaneously) instead.Honestly, what did he expect?
A wonderful story about how democracy is broken and the world is better off submitting to the rule of an iron-fisted military dictator so long as he saves them from socialistm. A great read for closet fascists everywhere.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
Well, at least we left the formula behind somewhat here. You know the "Richard loves Kahlen-Richard loses Kahlen-there is an insurmountable reason Richard can never have Kahlen back-Richard surmounts the insurmountable (somehow)."Unfortunately the book just isn't that good, they keep getting weaker, though the diatribes do keep getting longer.
It's just so laughably stupid that it completely ruins any and all tension and suspense a malevolent force from the underworld running loose should have attributed to it.Richard Deus ex Machinas his way into figuring out that the chimes were set loose by Kahlan, and they are now destroying magic in the world, and if this isn't stopped, bad things will happen...
I mean, he didn't actually seem to do anything with it, he just says "look, I just created new magic, now here, let me destroy that immediately right here now, okay, now, what was I doing again, oh right, hey Chimes, eat that ghost and leave me alone." This makes no sense.
I enjoyed the first two books, and the fourth book, and liked the third one a little, but this one just lost its damn mind.
Then, several hundred pages later after some boring stories and characters are created to take place at the same time as Richard and Kahlan are trying to figure out how to get rid of these Chimes, something called the Dominie Dirtch is introduced and I realized that I was really going to have to struggle to get through this volume.
At the same time though, a little more complexity along with better writing could definitely improve the Sword of Truth series.
For a reason.(view spoiler)[So, to be completely honest, after the wedding--which I was mostly placated by--and the crazed devil chicken started shitting all over everything and clawing out eyes and whatnot...
I literally threw the book across the room and refused to finish it--furthermore, I vowed I wouldn't read another Sword of Truth novel, ever again.I promised myself this because, as much as I liked some of the characters and found the stories interesting, to a degree, I began experiencing uncontrollable rage every single time he used Richard and Kahlan's relationship as the helpless weakling the bad guys pick on/exploit/etc.
2.5 stars. While a decent read, this fifth installment of the Sword of Truth series continues the let down in the overall quality of the series after the first 3 books. Richard and Kahlan remain memorable characters but not much else.
My main issue: ANDERITH AND ALL THOSE DWELLING IN IT!Now, I realize the importance of the place and its characters, and by the latter third of the book, I was genuinely captivated by even that aspect of the story - but the build up to it was so drawn out and just painfully dull, I had a really hard time getting through the first half or so of the book.
The former landscape painter has told us how he isn't a fantasy author in every interview he's ever given:"The books I write are first of all novels, not fantasy, and that is deliberate; I'm really writing books about human beings."(1)"To define me as a fantasy writer is to misunderstand the context of my books by misidentifying their fundamentals."(2)"The stories I'm telling are not fantasy-driven, they're character-driven, and the characters I want to write about could be set in any world.
Despite what he says, nothing separates his work from the average modern fantasy author, and like them, his greatest failing is the complete lack of self-awareness that overwhelms his themes, plots, and characters.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
I firmly believe some strange essence possessed Terry Goodkind before he wrote this book.
I had to fight my way through the first four hundred pages to get to the moderately interesting part of the book.
I believe that Goodkind had an opportunity to take Richard and Kahlan's characters to a new level as they tackle saving the world as newlyweds, but unlike his other books the main characters become flat.
Hopefully Goodkind will step up to the plate a little more with the rest of the series.
This was one of my least favorite of the series, especially the ending.
Ok. I think we could have just ended with Richard & Kahlan together and called it good.
Maybe my fond memories of the first couple of books helped me to overlook my distaste long enough to stay interested in the overall outcome - there are a lot of great fantasy elements.
But I also didn't have a lot of other Fantasy to choose from at the time.
If I had picked it up now with all the other books waiting on my to-read list, I might have called it quits.
Jeepers Creepers.
A focus on sexual violence and sexual possessiveness as the main motivators for virtually every character.
Untold pages of characterization of the bad guys as bad so that we don't mind when they are subjected to violence later.
A characterization of a "primitive" person's speech as "jibber-jabber." A whole bunch of messianic stuff admixed in with the pagan.
A strong pro-life and antidemocratic bent.
Ridiculous situations.
The wise lying to each other apparently only to make trouble so that there is material for a book.
Objectivists must contend with Evil Poultry and surly parasitical kitchen servants.
However, when Richard finds Kahlan's lifeless, crumpled body a short time later, he does not recognize her.
Given the book's sloppy copy editing, an interpretation closer to the truth may be that Goodkind takes his readers for fools willing to accept whatever pap he chooses to dole out.A new agrarian Midlands nation, Anderith, is introduced in Soul of the Fire, full of morally bankrupt leaders and cowed citizens.
The cynicism Richard and Kahlan exude towards the people of Anderith echoes my sentiment about most of Goodkind's characters who receive attention during this installment of Sword of Truth: I really don't care what happens to them anymore.
There's too much good literature to read.According to Mr Goodkind, those of us who have bailed out are ignorant and uneducated.
I should have realized right from the start ("Wizard's First Rule: People are stupid") what kind of fellow Terry Goodkind is.
It isn't that they want to read a good book, what they want is to make sure that you do not.
If you really want to try a Goodkind book, I would recommend that you go to the library and check out the first few, and then trust me that you don't need to read any further.
Read more Terry Goodkind book reviews at Fantasy Literature .
There are people who loved Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth series from beginning to end.
But a lot of people who loved it through the first four books feel this is where the series jumped the shark.
But this book, even if I do see it as falling off in enjoyment from the earlier books, is still very entertaining as Richard and Kahlan combat the power of the chimes leaching magic from the world.
There are still characters I love here, and there's still humor, and there's still imagination in Goodkind's world-building to burn.
Not great at all.
All the characters started doing out-of-character stupid shit, and nothing much really happened.
Also, the plot was just not very interesting, and solutions for problems were a bit far-fetched (view spoiler)[(the guy in the lake, what the hell?) (hide spoiler)].
And what was the demon chicken that was just completely forgotten after 150 pages of whining over it?
All the new characters that were introduced were stupid and ignorant, and most of them didn't even have a good purpose, which was kind of a disappointment after plowing through their boring chapters.
Ann and Cara were still great though, and there should have been more Zedd.
Oh, how I love this series! For me, each book seems to get better! I definitely liked Soul of the Fire far more than any of the others! What a great journey this story takes us on! I find it hard to discipline myself to read only one book in this series and not jump right in to the next one! Will get to that one soon though, got to see what happens after one hell of an ending!
Terry Goodkind also has a very long-winded way of writing which can be trying at time (and don't even get me started on those pesky recaps) But having said that, I find I am unable to stop reading the series, at least, that's the case so far.
I am hoping that Berdine will be back in the next installment.I don't know how many more of these I'll read back to back (12 books is a daunting number especially considering that these aren't exactly slim volumes) but so far I am curious as to what happens to these people and that curiosity is keeping me going.
L’anima di Richard.Zedd decide di provare a fermarli da solo, ingannando Richard per tenerlo al sicuro nel Mastio;Richard subodora la truffa, scopre per vie traverse dove deve andare e vi si dirige;Jagang non soffre più di tanto, visto che quelle creature fanno il lavoro sporco per lui e in più la magia Detrattiva continua a funzionare, e per ora le Sorelle dell’Oscurità sono sue schiave;Ann decide di sfruttare questo periodo in cui l’Imperatore non ha più potere per salvare le Sorelle prigioniere e uccidere le altre, onde evitare che quando la magia tornerà siano usate come armi da Jagang.L’unico problema è che la storia sarebbe stata veloce e tutto sommato breve, in 400 pagine sarebbe stata molto meglio.
I am not liking how the action, adventure and POINT of the story is getting bogged down in petty, uncharacteristic "now that the main characters are married, they're acting like it" petty disagreements.
You mean to tell me that after spending the first 300 PAGES detailing every backstory, rehashing every major event from the previous 4 books and chronicling every petty disagreement between the happy couple, it just ADVANCES forward by some WEEKS!
This has got to be THE WORST book in this series, thus far.
I'm also disappointed that the book lacked any kind of suspense to keep the momentum going and the reader wanting to turn pages.
I was already growing weary of the series and the author's simplistic attempts to teach the reader that *caveman grunt* "communism bad", but had decided I would push on with the series for the sake of completion (at this point I hadn't realized that Goodkind intended to beat this dead horse for the rest of his life.)I loaned the book to a friend to read while I finished up Temple of the Winds.
It was only years later when I decided to see for myself how astute my friends observations about this terrible book were.I borrowed a copy from library (because I will never give Goodkind another of my hard earned dollars)and started reading.
I am on a mission to catch up on this series, since I cannot remember why I stopped reading it in the first place.
I find myself liking to return to series, especially longer ones, with decent character development.
In Kahlan and Richard, but as I am so drawn with the peripheral characters, I like to see what they been doing.I like Goodkind's style, it's easy, fluid and not overly flowery as some authors can get especially in books of this size.
Who will you side with Zed and kaylan who think the chicken is a chicken, or Richard and the bird man (his real name) who think the chicken is not a chicken.!!!!!!Honestly this series dies a horrible death after the third book.
I'm going back to the first book to recommended it being read as as trilogy or for people to just stick to the tv show (where the debatably most powerful woman in the world acts like it and not like a snivelling teenager)
