https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190670.Curious_George_Flies_a_Kite
Some dated language (George really beats himself up at one point for being a bad monkey. Don't let them get to you like that, George!), but mostly this is an innocuously sweet if slightly longwinded story. It's nice to be able to read stories like that.
He's great at math and science, he remembers things that blow my mind and he's got this amazing hand/eye coordination that causes me much envy...he's just not the best reader.We've been playing a lot of phonics games lately, trying to build his confidence and get him more comfortable with reading instead of feeling frustrated because it's not clicking and yesterday he asked me if we could get some books just for him from the library.
This is the first time he's asked me for that, so I got a little weepy.Today we sat down with this on the couch together and he read me the entire thing.
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
My three-year-old son was able to sit through all 80 pages of this in one go. That's the magic of Curious George.
Flying a kite is no picnic! The church I attended held an annual Kite Day, which, invariably was the least windy day of the year. Never could seem to get the kite off the ground for long. George tackles this problem in this addition to H.A. Rey's series.
Oh, and as far as I can tell, the common theme to these adventures is "Behold, the power of string!" The book begins with George in his house, playing with a new ball.
So once again, the story begins with the poacher leaving George unsupervised for the day, but giving him a stern warning to behave.
Great parenting, (view spoiler)[asshole (hide spoiler)].George climbs into the walled garden across the street, where he finds a small house full of baby bunnies and a mother bunny.
Hurray.As George is leaving the garden, he sees a man carrying a fishing pole, and his next adventure immediately begins.
AHH, what a great read for students who love monkeys, and curious george. I picked this book because I know that I enjoyed these books as a kid, and so did all my sibilings. I love how this book is able to make kids laugh, and draw them in. I will for sure use this in a classroom to teach students about kites, and how to fly a kite.
This is a story in four parts: playing ball, playing with bunnies, going fishing, and flying a kite. They are all tenuously related but almost like four separate stories. I liked that George was more curious than naughty in this one. I find those types of scrapes more palatable than the naughty monkey stories that my kiddos could manage to imitate.
This sweet little story deserves a four star. Curious George checked out the bunnies, went fishing with his creative fishing tools, flied a kite and went up with it until The man with the yellow hat saved him from the helicopter. He was rewarded a baby bunny when he saved Bill’s kite. Sweet.
Curious George is curious about something that is outside, so he wanders from his home to look around. While out, he runs into Bill, and they fly a kite. George goes on a bigger adventure than he had planned. Silly and cute.
George, abandoned again until the neighbor boy sends him airborne
George is very adventurous when it comes to playing outside. He loves kites, bunnies, fishing poles, and the powerful kite. 1. Lets make a kite2. Shapes3. A stories about their fun adventures
Kisah seseru petualangan Curious George ini dituangkannya dengan begitu mengalir, tak putus sampai di akhir.Ketika membaca judulnya tak usah cepat-cepat berharap menemukan adegan George yang selalu ingin tahu dan pria bertopi kuning tengah membuat layang-layang--kalau memang itu bayangan Anda ketika membaca judul buku ini.
Kita akan diajak melihat Curious George bermain-main dengan bola, mengamati rumah mungil yang tampak menarik dari jendela rumah pria bertopi kuning, dan rasa penasaran akan hal itulah yang membawanya ke sana, ke kandang sekawanan kelinci.
Lagi-lagi, rasa ingin tahu George memicu kejadian seru lain yang mengharuskan kedatangan pria bertopi kuning untuk menyelamatkan George.Meskipun saya menebak Margret Rey tidak terlahir sebagai penutur asli bahasa Inggris, saya yakin ia paham bagaimana menulis buku anak-anak berbahasa Inggris yang memikat.
On one of the first pages George is looking out the window, and H.A. Rey gives you a bird's-eye view of the rest of the story--the garden, the dock in the distance and the sky beyond.First episode.
George climbs over the garden wall to check out a bunny house.
Bunny gets away, George enlists Mother Bunny (on a string) to help him find the baby back again.
George uses the string from episode one, plus a few other things to make his own fishing pole and tries out fishing.
Once home, George returns the kite and Bill offers him a bunny from his bunny house.
AppleBlossom has been in love with monkeys since her first birthday, so when she discovered Curious George there was expected delight.
Now through this book I get to guide her away from just the animated illustrations and back to the original H.A. Rey illustrations and Margret Rey story.
I love the original art and story!
The english text in black and the spanish in red, it is a great educational tool.
Not only can I share a classic with my toddler, but I can expose her to spanish vocabulary.
Easy-to-read and read-aloud with a good but smaller vocabulary and repetition this is one of great educational value.
AppleBlossom has been in love with monkeys since her first birthday, so when she discovered Curious George there was expected delight.
Now through this book I get to guide her away from just the animated illustrations and back to the original H.A. Rey illustrations and Margret Rey story.I love the original art and story!
The english text in black and the spanish in red, it is a great educational tool.
Easy-to-read and read-aloud with a good but smaller vocabulary and repetition this is one of great educational value.*Thanks to HMH for providing a copy for review.*
Curious George gets curious about the small house next door after he gets tired of playing with his ball.
George plays with the bunny like hide and seek until he loses the bunny and has to get the mother bunny to help him find the bunny.
Then curious george gets curious about fishing and makes his own fishing pole out of a piece of string, a broom, a jacket hanger, and a piece of cheese as bait.
Curious George brings the kite back to Bill and in return Bill gives George one on his bunnies from the small house.
This was and still is my personal favorite of the Curious George books.
In this book, George jumps around from adventure to adventure, encountering baby bunnies, going fishing, and then flying on a kite (hence the title).
Some object over Curious George trespassing, endangering the rabbits and even "stealing" a baby rabbit!
It's just a children's book and I'm positive that H.A. Rey didn't write the book to teach children how to steal other people's pets.
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.If you have any children, this is a title they will definitely enjoy.
“Curious George Flies a Kite” by Margret Rey follows the adventure of a curious monkey named George whose curiosity gets him I a difficult situation involving a kite.
At first the theme revolves around George playing with string.
In a way kids can learn about the many different ways string is used while having following a monkey his adventures get him into trouble but is able to get out it before the story comes to a close.
It should also be note that the pictures play an important role in telling the story often enhancing the words.
George does more than just fly a kite in this picture book.
He uses the Mother Bunny to find the lost bunny and by then he's spying his next adventure.Next, George fashions his own fishing pole out of a mop and baits the fish using pieces of cake.
Bill has a kite and asks George to watch it, which results in George flying high in the skies and in need of rescue.Funny and one of the longest Curious George books I can remember.
When the man with the yellow hat leaves the house George goes out to play; he meets a baby bunny, he tries to fish in the lake, and then he flies a kite and ends up stuck flying through the air!
Luckily the man with the yellow hat saves him in a helicopter, and he gets to take the baby bunny home with him to live.
I think that it is a fun story for children to read, and I think a positive moral behind it is to show children that they should try new things and be curious!

The themes are Curious George flying a kite; but also Curious George fishing; and Curious George playing with a baby bunny.
The main theme is the Man with the Yellow Hat went out and told Curious George not to be too curious but he still couldn't help himself.
Thankfully, on the last predicament when Curious George went up with the kite, the Man with the Yellow Hat came back in time to save him in a helicopter.
I would definitely use this book for children to encourage them to be curious but also to teach them curiosity should be in good measure otherwise it might backfire on them!
This is another of the Reys' wonderful Curious George series. In this story, George goes from one adventure to another -- losing and finding a baby bunny, learning how to fish, and naughtily flying a kite until he flies high above the town, only to be rescued by the Man with the Yellow Hat. George has delighted children for generations, and this makes for an enjoyable read. Unlike the later knock-off George series, this story is characterized by the Reys' carefully crafted writing and wonderful classic illustrations. It is appropriate for beginning readers.
My four-year-old found this at the library and HAD to bring it home.
And won't let me take it back yet.
His older brother (8 yrs old) read it to him.
It's a cute story in typical George fashion meaning he gets into all sorts of trouble because he's so curious.
But it always ends up okay.
There are several 'sections' here or different stories.
For the beginning reader you could split them up in these natural breaks.My good reader read this quickly.
He said it was "too easy and kinda boring", but the little brother sitting next to him loved it.
Curious George gets in trouble again following his curiosity in his neighborhood. He finds a bunny hutch and loses one of the baby rabbits and then falls in the lake while trying to fish with a mop, mop hook, and pieces of cake. Finally, while holding a kite for his neighbor boy, he flies into the air and has to be rescued by the man in the yellow hat in a helicopter!George's ingenious solutions to his problems are satisfying and my 2 year old grandson was enthralled from start to finish.Great for beginning readers as well.
In this book Curious George flies a kite.
He also does a number of other fun things, And each time he gets into trouble.
It's hard to be curious.
But it's fun.
We love this series, just as we love the animated ones on PBS.
Most little kids can relate really well to Curious George.
Luckily, the man with the yellow hat is usually close by, close enough to get George out of trouble.
Although Curious George does get himself into many a pickle, there are no scary guys, no mean dogs, no dragons, no deaths, and it always ends well.
this was the first book i was taught to read. thinking back, i know that i cheated, because i just memorized how each page sounded. i wonder if i even understood the actual words being spoken... just whoa crazy picture!i always wanted a monkey. i hear that they're super strong, easily agitated, and masturbate frequntly. oh to have the monkey's life... oh but this book... yes, well... i'm going to rate it a decent. sure it was novel back then, but it hasn't stood the test of time like green eggs and ham.
I enjoyed this a great deal; again, natural consequences, but also I was thinking how George usually finds his own way out of difficulties -- so a good mix of autonomy and dependence. A lot of self-contained little episodes (the rabbits, fishing, the kite) but they all connect up thematically, and there's a little uncertainty but not so much my daughter becomes frightened. And the pet bunny at the end was quite sweet.
This book is deceptively long. I needed to drink a glass of water afterwards. It's very cheeky and entertaining and worrisome, as George is wont to be, and there are lots of involved sub-plots. The illustrations are very eye-catching and expressive. My 3.5 year old sat captivated through the whole twenty minutes of storytelling.
