https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252453.The_Royal_Road_to_Romance
This is an incredible book that could make the most stable homebody want to store all their junk and take a long trip.
Halliburton inspired in her a love of travel and adventure that never faded- and it's done the same for me.
From sneaking back into the Taj Mahal at night to swim in the fountain to hiding camera film from the authorities in a rain gutter after taking pictures of Gibraltar at night to climbing Matterhorn with practically no climbing experience, Halliburton was an exciting traveler.
The book is good for gaining a better understanding of the places discussed, as well as the time period (written 1925).While I appreciate Richard Halliburton's writing and stories in some ways, he isn't my favorite character.
Some of my dislike may just be that I’m not the type who would want to go gallivanting around the world taking unnecessary risks for basically no reason but novelty, on barely any funds, and without any plan whatsoever much of the time.
But if they read it, it might be good to discuss risk-taking behaviors in this context, because Halliburton seems to have been an extreme thrill-seeker, and that seems to be becoming more and more in vogue these days.
Richard Halliburton, the grandaddy of adventure tourism, left Princeton in the early 1920s to do the world.
The Royal Road to Romance (1925) is his report of his grand adventure, a narrative of some sixteen months of "hobohemism" across the globe.
It's a jolly tale told with dash in impetuous, flamboyant prose that fully captures the author's youthful energy.
Tuck into it if you're in the mood for a mad, jaunty, and sometimes embarrassing read that scores low on ethnology but off the scales on irrepressible enthusiasm for life.
At first I got a little bored of this book.
What is of significance is that I picked it up last week and finished reading the 2'nd half of the book.
I found his writing to be overdone yet I kept reading because although he can give too many details at times, sometimes he can write very eloquently.
Plus his adventures were interesting and at times captivating.
All in all I would recommend this book to anyone who loves too travel and wants to read about a time in the world when traveling as an adventurer was vanishing but had not vanished.
We join our intrepid and bold explorer once again as he globe trots from Princeton to Germany, the first stop on yet another "glorious adventure;" and ultimately to the heights of Fujiyama in Japan; and stopping along the way at the most romantic places on earth; albeit romance holds many a meaning as we follow Halliburton on his journey.
Revel in the stunning beauty of the sights, the landscapes, and cheer for him as he narrowly escapes from the authorities; it's an endless pursuit of the visual romance of the places he visits despite any obstacle or interdict that stands between him and his destiny.
This is my second Halliburton book after "The Glorious Adventure" and I loved this one just as much.
who in their lives fought for life,Who wore at their hearts the fire’s centre.Born of the sun, they traveled a short while toward the sun And left the vivid air signed with their honour.Halliburton traveled a short while toward the sun before his untimely death at 39, and the air was vivid with his life, leaving on earth his books, a testament to his honor.
Ten men, because it would take that many normal people to live his life if fueled by a desire to escape the nine-to-five convention of office walls.Each book is a testament to a way of seeing, a vision of life, that enabled him while others would turn away toward the comfort of the familiar--the neighborhood, the family, the job.
One of my all time favorites! Halliburton made his living by LIVING and then writing about all his fantastic adventures. He did what I can only dream about. He was a fun character; positive & happy and relays this in his writings.
One of the best travelogues I have read. This book should be standard reading when it comes to the travelogue genre. From breaking into the Taj Mahal, the Alhambra, being arrested in Gibraltar you cant help but be captivated by Haliburton's adventure.
This is amazing book about the beauty of adventure. I am a huge traveler and this book inspires that part of me!
This guy travelled around the world immediately following his graduation from Princeton, logging over 40,000 miles by ship, train and bicycle, and living only on the money he made along the way publishing his writing.
I think part of what makes his stories good - or more interesting than the occurances of ordinary tourist - is that he would put himself "in harms way" for the sake of the story - and it paid off because he did have some better-than-average stories to tell.
The combination of good content, Halliburton's knack for writing and witty storytelling, made for a quality read.
I read this as a boy, and it is a hard book to find, but Haliburton was a privileged kid who chucked it all in favor of adventure, and to hear it told in his 1930's voice transports you to a time when you had to actually go places to see things.
A classic of adventure travel. You won't realize just how much Halliburton defined the modern adventure traveller. He is the forefather of an industry.
I read this book every year! It reminds me that there is a big world out there to explore and that where there is a will there is a way.
I read this book back when I was in high school and it is just as enjoyable now!
reading with Grace for school
And Richard Halliburton was a very young man, filled with the thrill of being young, healthy and able to travel, with no idea of his own mortality or the contribution he could make just by trying to understand humanity in some of the countries he visited.I had to keep this in mind as, for what seemed like the sixth or seventh time, he found the smell and discomfort of his purchased third class accommodations abhorrent and wandered up to first class on the train, refusing to move when confronted by the native conductors.
Quick read book about his around-the-world route from Princeton, NJ through Switzerland, Greece, Khyber Pass, Bali, Tokyo, Seattle and then after 17 months and many countries not already mentioned, finally home to Tennessee using as little money as possible -- really!
Halliburton died just over a decade later drowning while trying to sail a Chinese junk from Hong Kong to San Francisco.
It was fun to count how many countries I had been on my travels - however, never sneaking in and out of cabins or trying to climb Mt Fuji in the winter!
(btw, of the countries mentioned, I counted 11 to his 37 - ha!)
I enjoyed the last half of the book better than the first. However, All his adventures were interesting and his writing is very good. He took me along in my minds eye especially when he was awed at some of the things he was seeing. He disappointed me when he cheated others because he ran out of money. Those adventures I did not like but his other discriptions made me google many of the places he was seeing. He is a great travel writer and certainly a brave adventurer and lover of life and seeker of beauty.
I cannot tell you how much I loved this book and how highly I recommend it.
It was a genuinely fun read and I had such a hard time putting it down.
The copy that I read was an older version titled "The Romantic World of Richard Halliburton," but appears to be the same book as named above.
The second half included tales from his adventure around Italy to retrace the steps of Odysseus in The Odyssey.
I absolutely LOVED this book.
It was so well written and immersive.
I felt like I was there- I could feel the joy and anxiety in every page.
Still an enjoyable book by Halliburton but not my favorite. Some of the stories in here are retold in Halliburton's Book of Marvels but they do not always match. This has lead me to the conclusion that Halliburton embellishes some or maybe all of his stories in order to sell them. I am very disappointed by this conclusion but will still continue to enjoy the poetical prose of his writings in his other books.
Highly readable and very entertaining travelogue. Fun to see the world at that time through his very descriptive dispatches from abroad.
This book was essentially a travel log. It was interesting to learn about the different places, but you kind of felt like the author wrote a literary version of a “selfie.”
Excellent! - highly recommend for anyone with wanderlust!
I'm not going to do a star rating for this book, as it just doesn't work.What an adventure!
Halliburton set out to travel the world for 2 years.
He had amazing experiences.
His descriptions of the sites he visited were fascinating....travelling off the beaten path almost 100 years ago.
Although clearly in the mainstream of the time and place, his chauvinism and racism were rampant.
He did not hesitate to lie, cheat, and steal his way to whatever he wanted.
He casually desecrated ancient sites without regard to anyone but himself.
An interesting glimpse into the life of a globetrotting adventurer.
With very little in his knapsack, and usually even less in his wallet, he made his way across the ocean, traversing exotic locations all over Europe and Asia, following whims and climbing mountains and seeing landmarks and living life.When my grandpa was a POW there were two books available to him: the Bible and The Royal Road to Romance.
They were small punishment for the experience I was having" (281).When Richard Halliburton was incarcerated in Europe for taking illegal photos of the landscape he lamented his lack of decent reading material, and determined he would one day make sure to send good books to prisons around the world.
While my husband was loitering in the travel and sailing section of our local bookstore for an inordinate amount of time, the kid who worked there suggested he find a copy of ‘The Royal Road to Romance’.
Loitering seems to attract other bibliophiles from which your sure to extract veiled troves of extraordinary reading material.) Haliburton’s Royal Road was first published in 1925 which makes it especially difficult to find an actual copy in a bookstore.
Luckily for us we unearthed a prized copy from the dusty bowels of our local library.Haliburton himself, describes an event in the book which he admits to meeting with “reckless enthusiasm”.
Halliburton was not about romance, at least not in his book.
But he was the consummate adventurer.
And he lit my fire of adventure and a sense that ANYONE with a few provisions could hike anywhere.
You see, only the Appalachian Trail Murderer was allowed to carry a firearm, we Law Abiders were disarmed.
Halliburton and I have another connection that I just discovered: he was born in Tennessee where we now live, and after being lost in death at sea, he is immortalized in a shrine in Forrest Lawn Cemetery, California, yards away from my wife's Grandfather's crypt.
Youthful exuberance and a reckless disregard for his own life led the author, at the tender age of 23, to circumnavigate the globe in the most difficult ways possible.
I can't add anything to the review posted here by John Alt, who also wrote a biography of the intrepid young man called Don't Die in Bed: The Brief Intense Life of Richard Halliburton.
It came as no surprise to me to find that Halliburton died at the age of 39 trying to sail a Chinese junk across the Pacific.
Somehow I think his last thought before succumbing to the icy water must have been: "I did it my way."
This was a fun romp around the world with an incorrigible adventurer.
Life was possibly simpler then, but still!
To come to the Matterhorn without equipment or expertise - or money and borrow the one and gain the other while climbing and ignore the third.
A good deal of the charm in the book was the author's self-imposed poverty.
He had luck, mostly good but even bad and friends in high places nearly everywhere he went but still!
This was a fun read.Unfortunately I had to remove couple of stars for the occasional racism - which is, of course, not occasional at all.
For backpackers with an eye for adventure in exotic locales, this is a real find.
He traveled it with very little money and financed himself by selling enthusiastic accounts of his adventures.This is his first book and it covers a globe-spanning two year period right after he graduated from Princeton.
It's a good representative of his overall work.Readers who enjoy him will experience a range of reactions to what he did.
They'll agree sometimes and think what he's doing is soooo cool- and at other times shake their heads and think he's gone too far....and all the while they'll enjoy their trip along with him.
