https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1349301.Le_Sang_noir
Albert Camus thought "Blood Dark" rivalled the great Russian epics, but it is little known in English.
I didn't really like the way it was written, but I enjoyed the story. A strange visit into a professor's mind, a ride in which you find some of the boundaries that we, as humans, can reach.
The story of a faded, miserable, deformed academic, whose existence is dominated by a pointless and vague but still in some sense admirable crusade against – what, exactly?
The surrounding cast of hypocrites, sadistic false patriots, weak saints, elderly lovers and corrupt bourgeoise offer a scathing comment on the state of the French nation in the last year of WWI, but our pseudo-hero’s crusade, indifferently and pointlessly pursued, is at the heart of this masterpiece.
This is bitter black by not nihilistic, and in contrast to a lot of his successors, NAME works to mine some value out of the ludicrous awfulness of the human condition, rather than wallowing pointlessly in it.
Sort of reads like The Book of Ebenezer Le Page in that it details WWI with easy lucidity.
I've spent the last few hours of reading this book not so much reading as observing a narrative.
Only the names are fictive because you'll have no doubt this is exactly how things unfolded over a 24 hour period in France.
Rezzori, Khrzhizhanovsky and Kosztolanyi come to mind as points of comparison.
There are few things more worth my time and coin than the NYRB classics and this one rates among their best offerings.
This really is an astonishing book, the introduction says that Camus compared it to Dostoevsky and I wouldn't disagree.
It takes place in 24 hours with a fairly large cast of 20 or so characters in a small French provincial town in 1917 close to the Western Front.
The backdrop is the First World War which permeates much of the action indirectly, but Guilloux is adept at getting inside each characters thoughts and motivations, the psychology that he portrays is as Dostoevsky.
Fabulous book - well done to NYRB for publishing (and did they commission this new translation which makes it so readable ?
Though it was originally published in 1935, there is a pristine justness in the appearance of Laura Marris's translation of BLOOD DARK (the English title a crafty rendering of LE SANG NOIR) in 2017, as said year marked the centenary of the year in which the novel is set.
BLOOD DARK appears only a couple years after Céline's great modernist game-changer JOURNEY TO THE END OF THE NIGHT.
Though perhaps as adept a clinician as Céline in assessing the cruelty, mendacity, and stupidity of a culture and the variegated individuals who populate it, Guilloux is nonetheless ultimately far more sympathetic to his flawed and often comically misdirected characters.
It is not just the tragic loss of young life but the suspicions that some community members are not fully supportive of the war effort that pits people against one another to varying degrees.
Nabucet, another teacher there, is the pretentious antithesis of Cripure, all style and no substance.
It turns into a melee with a faction taking it up as a sort of anti-war protest and Cripure ends up slapping Nabucet.
A fascinating portrayal of the many eccentric characters inhabiting this village with a great deal of humor interspersed with the tragic.
I'm sad I've finished this book. It had such a life to it, in its joys and tragedies, in its multitude of endearing characters, in its philosophical conversations. I really fell like I've read something special here.
At various turns very bitter and brutally tragic, this novel's clarity of thought and unremitting honesty present a view into the human soul through an open wound.
I really liked this one. A sprawling, apocalyptic novel that weaves proto-existential ideas with wartime malaise. Its characters and themes are often ugly, but there's tenderness buried within.
L'écriture est riche, originale. Mais c'est dur d'entrer dedans!
