https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58976.Necronomicon
The master of science-fiction/paranormal/dream exploitation art.Grab a bag of weed and puff away, flicking through the pages.Beautiful.
My most treasured book...it's a revelation.
Unfortunately I got the German edition and I cannot read German. The artwork itself is worth five stars and hopefully later I can get this in English.
Giger's first giant coffee-table art book was also my first book by him.
I bought it on my 14th birthday and took it along on a family road trip from California to Texas, which the book and a Crosby, Stills & Nash tape sort of turned into a mystical journey.Seeing the huge, Guernica-sized airbrushed paintings and reading about Giger's experiences and dreams is a highly immersive experience.
This book covers the best period of the artist's work, which makes it superior to Necronomicon II and Biomechanics.This book is a real trip and I'd recommend it to any appreciator of art, surrealism, and the bizarre in general.
Unfortunately the library copy had pages 18-32 torn out of it.
My friend Chris got it first when his dad picked it up for him at an antique auction (?) I was insane with jelousy as we started flipping though the satanic masterpiece.
The inside cover of the hardcover is printed with a signature from Salvador Dali.
If you've seen the book, you know it is really well printed, so the signature looks very authentic.
So we got really excited, thinking Chris' Dad had stumbled upon a copy of Necronomicon signed by Salvador Dali.
My friend's dad took the wind out of our sails almost immediately after looking at the signature under a light, but for a minute there, we were in possession of the ultimate Necronomicon.
Giger is probably the most original artist of the fantastic since H. Bosch. His work is engaging and seriously strange stuff. "Necronimicon" has a biographical focus on the author - relating the evolution of his work and technique to the progression of his life. This is essential reading for anyone interested in the man's work.
Great artwork by the man who brought us Aliens. Don't let the fact that it's called "Necronomicon" deter you.
This book scares me silly. I'm going to sell it or give it away. I liked Giger's work in the Alien films, but this is too much for me.
Being a fan of his art I just wanted to add it to show I own a copy :)
I read this after learning about Giger's involvement in Alien's concept art. His work is very dark, so this is definitely not for everyone. If you have an interest in the Alien movies, as well as Prometheus, The Matrix, and many more you'll appreciate the connection.In case you finished this book and still want some more, heres a really cool documentary that shows how Giger was able to turn his vision into a reality. Its fascinating to see him develop his craft. He even got an Oscar for this!htt
I read this after learning about Giger's involvement in Alien's concept art. His work is very dark, so this is definitely not for everyone. If you have an interest in the Alien movies, as well as Prometheus, The Matrix, and many more you'll appreciate the connection.In case you finished this book and still want some more, here´s a really cool documentary that shows how Giger was able to turn his vision into a reality. It´s fascinating to see him develop his craft. He even got an Oscar for this!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEf3z....
http://www.tomfury.se/wordpress/2012/...
Well I can't say I "read it" 'cause it was in German.
He has this dark attitude and the complex system-like things he draws with human bodies as a part of the machine are truly amazing.
I first heard about him in that documentary "Jodorowski's Dune" in which he was part of the crew.
The movie wasn't made due to financial troubles - No company would distribute the film - but he was later chosen to do the design in the movie Alien and won an Oscar.
The man is a madman ...
Dieses Buch hat einem biografisches Blickwinkel über Gigers Kunst. Man kann nicht nur seinen Kunst Entwicklung sehen sondern auch seinen Alpträume Änderung fühlen. Surrealistisch, phallisch, sexuell, düster, usw…
it was pretty predictable.
Giger's unique vision, and darkly textured landscape make for a universe of true nightmares.
deliciously dark - very 80s of course
As this is a picture book, no review. Being a fan of his Art I just wanted to add it to show I own a copy.R.I.P. H. R. Giger
I recommend it very interesting
The Swiss Masters chamber of Horrors!!!
The Swiss Master´s chamber of Horrors!!!
Amazing artist. One of my all-time favorites. If you're fan, then you know this is one of his best.
