https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1593054.Black_Colossus
(Or him touching you and stuff.) Your whole damsel in distress act might work on Conan, and he might be willing to cut throats for you (because he is obliging and cordial like that), but don’t you go getting any ideas in your silly little head!
There’s a princess called Yasmela (the chick who wants my boyfriend to put his Super Sexey Hands in her dirty, greasy hair).
Anyway, so Yasmela the Big Crybaby gets scared as fish and finds herself a Super Drunk Hot Barbarian in Shining Scarlet Cloak to help get rid of her friendly Sex Ed teacher.
Definitely an early work in the Conan series as it lacks the development and depth of the later stories. Readers familiar with the cannon will recognize shades of The People of the Black Circle and The Hour of the Dragon.
Conan demonstra habilidades táticas, mas os seus esforços são prejudicados pelos oficiais abaixo dele, influenciados pela magia de Natohk.Ao longo da narrativa, o poderoso mago deixa claro que conquistar o mundo não é a sua única ambição: ele também deseja desesperadamente a bela Yasmela para si mesmo.
A história culmina com uma grande batalha, onde Conan enfrenta o exército de Natohk e o persegue até às ruínas decrépitas de um templo estígio.O conto possui uma narrativa e vivacidade incomparáveis, entre as melhores já escritas por Howard e talvez mesmo entre todas as histórias curtas que já li em fantasia.
Another enjoyable Conan story written by Robert E. Howard. This particular story isn't in my top picks of the ones that I've read so far though. It starts off really well and has a good middle section with the ending being the weakest part. Good fun though throughout.
Not quite as adventurous or horrific as the best works in the series, but a clean and fun ride with a creepy villain nonetheless. It was also nice seeing Conan show off in front of prudish nobles that looked down on him as a brutish savage unworthy of their attention or respect.
Enjoyable overall, but not quite as good as some others. Conan doesn't make an appearance until a third of the way into the story. Then, the battle at the end and the final resolution seemed somewhat rushed, leaving me disappointed with the conclusion.I liked Yasmela. I liked Conan. The rest of the characters were barely there and I wasn't invested in them. I did like the overall story arc, it seemed like something that could be expanded into a really good novel. It was fast paced and hinted at a larger world of political machinations.
I really likes this one. I love the whole Egyptian theme through-out these stories, but this was utilized it even more. I was wondering for a bit why this sort of theme would be in these stories until I remembered that they were written only a mere ten years after the discovery of the pharoah Tutankhamun, aka king Tut. Love these Ancient Egypt themes woven in. Totally should not have cut to black there at the end, if you know what I mean!
Fun introduction to Conan. A lot of exposition describing terrain and medieval armor which made my eyes cross at Times. fun and quick.
Stories were decent, not his best. The art was amazing.
I enjoyed the first half backstory, but the romance aspect of the second half was exceptionally dull.
This one is mostly a big battle, which I found very hard to follow.
A louder clash of steel, a sliding rasp, a choking cry--from the pirate horde a fierce yell split the morning as Conan's sword plunged through their captain's massive body.
The point quivered an instant from between Sergius's shoulders, a hand's breadth of white fire in the sunlight; then the Cimmerian wrenched back his steel and the pirate chief fell heavily, face down, and lay in a widening pool of blood, his broad hands twitching for an instant.
The scene swam dizzily before her eyes; all she could see was the Cimmerian lying limply on the sward, blood oozing from his head."-Robert Howard; Shadows in the MoonlightAnd that's the power of Robert E.
She calls on the aid of Hyboria's most ancient of gods, Mitra, who answers her- '"Go forth upon the streets alone, and place your kingdom in the hands of the first man you meet there."Set in the time when Conan was a mere mercenary for hire, 'Black Colossus' is the first story to feature the barbarian in the company of a female character.
'Black Colossus' also features an excellent climax to a story in which Conan experiences initial intimations of a higher ambition for himself.
This Conan story was about a resurrected sorcerer called Natohk, who has rallied much of the South-Eastern tribes in preparation for conquest.
However the Princess has replaced her Stygian faith for that of the Northern God Mitra.
Mitra advises her to seek the help of the first warrior she meets in the streets.
His level-headedness and stubborn logic are much needed in the impressive battle at the end of the story.
There are very well described scenes of the battlefield’s features, as well as its progress.I thought the conclusion was swift and decisive, even though it had familiar themes to many of Robert E Howard’s stories.
Robert E.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E.
Howard's stories.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read.
Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Another short but entertaining story. this is truly Conan at his best: a warrior, surly, impolite, ruthless and yet a man who protects women and organizes a battle on scale of some of Napoleon's efforts. The mystical is a bit over the top and Conan's simplistic way of dealing with it is too silly, but still a fun short story.
The Donald Grant editions of the Conan stories were very nice, with some really good illustrations. This contains two Conan stories, "Black Colossus" and "Shadows in the Moonlight," neither of which are among the best Conan stories. But they still rock.
Meh.
This is the fourth Conan story I have read, and there doesn't seem to be much worth continuing on for.
Another Conan adventure, though not as good as the others. Maybe because the action and ending were both a bit abrupt.
