https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833495.The_Greek_Myths
Clytemnestra bore Agamemnon one son, Orestes, and three daughters: Electra, Iphigeneia, and Chrysothemis.
When she learned from a provocateur wishing to inflame her feelings of vengeance that Agamemnon planned to bring back the King of Troy’s daughter Cassandra and the children she bore to Agamemnon, Clytemnestra’s thoughts turned bloody.Up to this time, Clytemnestra is entirely blameless.
They were brought up on myths of the earlier religion, according to which the sacred king had always been betrayed by his goddess-wife, killed by his tanist, and avenged by his son; they knew the son never punished his adulterous mother, who had acted with the full authority of the goddess whom she served.Is this relevant to the world we live in today?
Just finished with the kids.
The second book (part 2) contains large segments of the Illiad and the Odyssey stories along with Hercules, Achilles and Ajax.
The kids (13 & 11) were mainly interested in the sex, blood, and the strata of godhood (Gods, Demigods, Semidemi, etc).
A poet's mythology for sure, and obviously influenced by Grave's own obscession with the White Goddess myth, etc.
The most interesting survey of Greek Mythology I've come in contact with.
I might have to revisit my Bulfinch and Hamilton again just to make sure I'm not clouded by some offbeat, proximity bias or elixer/aphrodisiakon that has attracted me to Graves from the egg.

The Great Graves continued his dissection of the the ancient Greek myths with this second volume and as with the first volume, it is a collection of detailed research.
The majority of the tales in this book center around the Twelve Labours of Heracles.
There is also Graves' contention that the Minoan and Mycenaean myths (matriarchal) were overtaken by the invading Dorian versions (patriarchal), which would explain the Amazons and the defeat of the Trojans and their female-centric culture....if Hector was the hand of the Trojans, Aeneas was their soul.The slog through Heracles' adventures is countered by the last part of the book, which is the telling of the Trojan War and the Odyssey.
I got through the first 300 pages of the first volume (not counting the notes that explain the origins of the myths) and didn't bother with the second volume. It's my opinion that this work is better used for reference than as reading material. The myths are recounted flatly, as though the myths are being described for definitions in an encylopoedia. Graves may be something of a scholar, but he's a lowsy story-teller.
I really hope that Graves never think to write a volume 3. I hated the first volume and I only read this one just because I'm trying to finish every serie or I would never pick this book. Is true that he does a good job in terms of facts and gives a very complete informations but how he writes it is just dry, numb and boring. My school boks are more appealing than this two volumes.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars
Grateful the author didn't write a tome 3. This series was mandatory in high-school whilst preparing for the French baccalaureate. Didn't enjoy reading it at all, and has nothing to do with the translation, because I had checked the original version as well and same result: very dry, pedantic and tedious and in some instances misleading- more to be used for cross-references than actual reading material. Lacks maps and pictures - crucial elements when studying Greek mythology, or any mythology as a teenager. The author is definitely not a story teller.
Beautifully done collection.
Robert Graves may have done the most thorough job possible in collecting all the Greek Myths, all the variants and local legends pertaining to it.
As a source for raw information on the subject, this is an absolute treasure.Having said that, he had one flaw.
'The Golden Bough' was a highly influential book at the time he was writing.
Most of its premises have been largely disproven now and are mainly ignored in the academic community.
Graves explains all the myths, however, using the ideas laid out there.
This is a masterpiece, but not for its wild connections.
It is a masterpiece of research only.
Concise if somewhat idiosyncratic tellings of the Greek myths, coupled with completely over-the-rainbow analysis that says a lot about Graves and his muse and very little about the myths he's supposed to be discussing. It seems to be an openly acknowledged fact that this fails as a discussion of Greek myths; so the question is, what's the book that does what this book is supposed to do?
I love Greek Myths and this book, and part 1, bring me all the wonderful stories I want to read, and reread. It is true that the narrative is quite thick, what makes the reading slow paced, but it's worth the reading.
Hard reading, but exhaustive and enriching.
So glad I read this! It was so informative, and there is CRAZY STUFF in here. It got great when the Oddysey started happening near the end. Definitely a keeper.
Part 2 was as enjoyable as the Vol. 1. I return to it often to read snippits from time to time for pure enjoyment.
