https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85431.Friday_Night_Lights
In many ways, I should be the last person able to appreciate or understand life in small-town Texas with its conservative values and its unhealthy obsession with high school sports.
It is the story of the 1988 football season of Permian High School in Odessa, Texas.
And more than that, these 17 year-olds start to believe it themselves—that there’s nothing else for them beyond high school football.
And I don’t think you need to be a high school football fan, or even a sports fan in general, to appreciate it.
Permian High School Panthers: 1988 Football Season
As the plane took off from Cleveland I noticed a high school football game in progress.
I could see the lights..
the two teams on the field..
I watched the field as long as I could.
Just at the point when I couldn't see the stadium anymore my eye caught the lights of another football field.
when I looked out over the countryside I noticed that there were football games in most of the small towns we were passing.
I played connect the dots from one stadium to the next for over an hour.
I played along, and ended up reading an Amish romance and this sports book.
One reading friend talked about this book on an episode of the Reading Envy podcast and made it sound pretty compelling, sports or no sports."You'd watch these kids play, and it seem like somethin' burning would be inside of you and want to come out."And it is compelling.
We know that we're equal as athletes.
But after the game, we are not a part of it." (black coach at Permian, 1988)Has this made me want to read more sports books?
If you think this book is about high school football in Texas, you're pretty much wrong.
There is a fair amount about football, but this book is really a sort of sociological study of a small Texas town where Football is played.
There is a lot about the difficulties of the local economy after the oil slump, and in general the book gives what I thought was a fairly negative view of the people and their preoccupations.
If he uses designer suits instead of football, I suppose that's just his poison of choice.Whether your interest in the sport falls at zero or 100%, Friday Night Lights is an incredible look at the role that sports play in a community - the good and the bad - and an incredible study of Odessa, the '80s, the educational system, high school kids...
I'm so excited to read this thing. Hopefully the book is as good as the show.  Love me some  football  Tim Riggins y'all.
I watched a lot of football growing up (Friday nights: high school football; Saturday: University of Colorado football; Sunday: NFL football - I was a huge 49ers fan).
My high school football team won the state championship, and I remember it as a glory day - it was snowing, the team was playing in then-Folsom Field (the University of Colorado football field).
All this was forgotten under the lights of a Friday night if the Permian Panthers won before 20,000 people whose greatest hopes and dreams rested on a bunch of 15- to 18-year-olds.To be on the Permian Panthers football team (at least in the 80s, when this was written) was to be king.
High school football in Texas is life.
If you love football, Friday Night Lights likely will be the best sports book you've ever read.
If you don't love football, and aren't an avid nonfiction reader?
FNL likely will be the best nonfiction book you've ever read.FNL is about the stories communities tell themselves.
It's about how we live our values, collectively, how we relate to one another, how we motivate ourselves, our priorities, how we rationalize public policy, spending, the ways we view and talk about race, high school.
It's about how we vicariously claim the victories of others, whether they are athletes, politicians, entertainers, entrepreneurs - to give our lives seasons, meaning.
I actually bought a copy of the book for my friend Matt for Christmas and the four of us eventually decided to read the book and have a little book discussion afterwards.The book is a fast read and is mostly enjoyable.
There are times when you want to shake the book and say, "What is WRONG with you?" Many of those moments happened, for me, when there were detailed descriptions of academics being flushed down the tubes in favor of football.Overall, though, the writing is good.
He uses hyperbole and metaphor a bit too much, but he creates a solid image in your mind of what this town, this school, this team is really like.
Bissinger, a writer for the Philadelphia Inquirer, chronicles a year in the life of Odessa Texas, and more particularly the Permian High School Panther football team, the social nexus of this third rate town.
It follows the stories of players for the team, present and past, as well as a look at some of the opposition, the events surrounding the season, the history and economics of the town, and finds a microcosm of the larger world.
P 230[Odessa is an oil boom and bust town] “After all,” one oilman reasoned, “we’re just another Middle East war away from another boom.”
But, crucially, they do those things whether you end up as the state champion or at the bottom of the standings, provided that coaches, parents and kids keep their focus in the right place.The story of Permian high is so clearly one where everyone, from the school administrators and teachers to the parents to the local businesspeople and boosters to the college recruiters to the former players to the kids themselves have completely lost sight of what the goal of student athletics should be--building the student (as a person), not the trophy case.
This 'non-fiction novel' began a little slowly and it was slightly confusing to differentiate the teammates in the first twenty or so pages. However, it quickly becomes gripping and entertaining to follow the ups and downs of this high school football team's '88 season. The sociology of the impact on the small town Texas setting (the state's unofficial motto: "Play Football or Die") is also fascinating. Highly recommended.
Dear Mr. Bissinger,I think watching the Intelligent Squared debate you were in is great. I loved the television series based on this book. I learned something about myself while reading this. Even good writing such as yours, does not make me care a whit about football.
Great book that Bissinger wrote while embedded with the 1988 Permian Panthers and living for a year with his family in Odessa, Texas.
Bissinger's book not only focuses on the high school football team's quest to win state, but he also provides an understanding of the people who make up the town, its history, and their views on everything from politics to race.
In the end though, Bissinger clearly shows how an overemphasis on sports in high school in place of academics often leads to not much else thereafter.I highly recommend this book.
The writer tells you he has an opinion of Texas before he heads south and writes the story based on his preconceived notions, not anything he actually saw in Texas.
If you read this book, keep in mind it is local people answering a writer's questions after he said he was writing a story about their historic football program.
Lloyd Hill was a good kid, from a good family, and going to a big time college the writer never heard of, Texas Tech.
But since Lloyd Hill was a good kid with nothing the writer could exploit and not going to a college non football fans knew, he wasn't worth writing about.
I wanted to feel like I was in the town and one of the football players."Clear eyes.
This quote meaning be a proud Permian football player and putting pride into being on that team means that they can't lose if they play their hardest.
I think being a Permian football player means you are going to be in the town of Odessa for your life you just want to keep watching the team you played for.
I feel like that's the best time to read it when you are actually in high school you understand what's going on you have a better grasp on the book.
One character strength Crow and Bobo have is persistence. They show this on the football field because it takes more than one tackler to bring them down.
CJ HerronMrs. EbarviaWorld Lit10/21/08 H.G. Bissinger was born in New York City in November of 1954. He spent time writing for the Philadelphia inquirer. Friday Night Lights by H.G. Bissinger is about a small town in Texas called Odessa. Permian High school football is a way of life and almost every kid dreams of wearing the black and white under Friday night lights some day. Permian’s goal in the 1988 season was to reach the state championship. The competition is high and the road is tough, but
Permian High school football is a way of life and almost every kid dreams of wearing the black and white under Friday night lights some day.
What I found interesting in the novel Friday Night Lights was the descriptions of the characters and the setting.
The weaknesses I found in the novel were that there wasn’t too much plot about the football games, more about practices and the day of a game.
Even though the novel Friday Night Lights had many weaknesses, it still was one of my favorite books.
If you love football like I do, I would recommend reading this Friday Night Lights, by H.G. Bissinger
On the surface, it tells the story of the Permian Panthers, the high school football team from Permian High School in Odessa, Texas.
It gives us accounts of their backgrounds, families and their feelings about school, life and playing football.
The fans who took more interest in the high school football team than they did in the drop in oil price that was destroying the city.
This contrasts with the sections about foundation of the city and the background of the families and fans.
To someone who played sport at school, I found the behaviour of the fans incredible.
This true story is an incredibly powerful telling of the role football played for this group of young men growing up in rural West Texas in the 1980's.
I felt completely immersed in the world the author captured and was I captivated by how he managed to show both the positives and the negatives of such a world, often at the very same time.
It felt honest and raw, and I didn't want it to end.
[In regards to the oil booms of Texas in the 1980's] "Instead of understanding that they were the beneficiaries of history, they began to believe they were the creators of it."
(Apparently this review was brought to you by the letter A.) Along the way, Bissinger discusses popularity, racism, sexism, fresh-baked cookies, memories, oil, home economics, class conflicts, statutory rape, algebra, the savings-and-loan crisis, lowered expectations, skewed priorities, algebra, and armed robbery.Some of my favorite passages:Coach Belew: "I want one hell of a wreck out there.
Odessa, according to the almanac, had the worst health care in the country and ranked in the bottom twenty-five in the categories of transportation, jobs, and recreation."Jerrod McDougal: "We got two things in Odessa.
But we still got football, so fuck the rest of you."Jerrod McDougal, a few years later: "What hurts so bad about it, I was part of it for a while.
Really enjoyed most of this. The actual football games though... snooze.
Classic reporting, but needs more football and less patronizing social commentary on those poor ignorant Texans and how they "cling" to oil and football!
There are some really interesting sections about the condemnation of football and the institutional racism in a town like Odessa, but it felt loooooooong and could have lost about 50 pages.
Recommended by Gene Luen Yang! What more do I really need to say?Also: really interesting about sports and racial politics.
High School Football in Texas is completely different than anywhere else in America. Friday Night Lights gives you the perfect example of how serious they take football, and what high school football in Texas is all about. I would compare this book to many other high school football books, and would recommend this book to anyone who likes football.
Friday Night Lights is an insightful and thrilling book because of its emotionally moving story, with a flowing plot line, and stimulating characters.
Also the back stories of the players make the reader feel connected to them, especially Mike Winchell, Bissinger brings out his emotions more than a lot of other peoples in the book.
The flow to the plot line, with the emotional story and characters really make Friday Night Lights a must read.
This book gives a great sense to how much of a family everyone really becomes when they play a sport like football and this could help kids all around the world feel connected and be a part of something beyond their imagination.
I would like to see the movie based off of this story.Plot Summary:In the book, the football team plays in a series of games.
To play for the Texas High School State Football Game their is a three way tie.
The two teams with the same of one side, (heads or tails) would advance on to play in the state competition.
At the state competition it is a very close game the entire time, but with Permian always trailing.
The very last play Permian has the ball in hand and all they have to do is travel less than ten yards to receive a touchdown and win the game.
I recommend friday night lights to anyone that enjoys football, or just sports in general.
I really enjoyed this book, and would definitely recommend it to a friend.
After a hard hit Boobie is left out for the season, now not only could this ruin his career, but the team as well unless someone stands up.
That person has to be ivory, things might not be so easy though,because the coach barely talked him into to staying on the team when he tried to leave because of religion, and we are left to wonder if he really will stay.
I don’t want to ruin this book so i’ll leave it here, but I would definitely suggest this book.
If your a football player, you can really relate to this book.
It's about a football team in the very small town of Odessa, TX.
Which is the Permian Panthers high school football team.
Every friday night like many other high schools, there is a football game.
But this isn’t just an ordinary small town friday night football game.
The whole town of Odessa comes to every single game.
Just the way the book describes how being at the Ratliff stadium on a friday night feels like.
The book also describes basically almost every single players life story on the 1988 Permian Panthers football team.
