https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29547.Everyone_Worth_Knowing
Stereotypical characters, dull plot consisted of superficial world building, with predictive and anticlimactic ending.
In the end, Bette is in the same place she was at the beginning of the book.
But the most ridiculous part of this book was the fact that she went along with every little plan her new boss had for her - from "dating" a guy who's blatantly gay and whom she can't stand, to ditching her best friends and family, so she could go the parties because "it's part of the job".
The central love story is platonic, theatrical and unrealistic to that extent that I wanted to puke.
If you thought Devil Wears Prada was insipid, wait until you read this vomitous waste of valuable wood pulp, time, eyestrain and anxiety (the latter due to agitated anticipation of the novel's anticlimactic denouement).Upon reading said anticlimactic denouement (after enduring insipid, US-Weekly-grade "plot**"), one shall either (a) Throw 'book' violently against wall.(b) Throw 'book' violently at photo of current Oval Office occupant. (Offended Republicans may choose to substitute with photo of current Congressional "leadership.")(c) Gift now-used book to particularly assholic co-worker. (d) Recycle.**jambalaya of vacuous, incoherent scenes portraying the "author" as a name-&-brand dropping charlatan.
Weisberger's novels seem to be about 85,000 words of actual story plus an additional 15,000 words comprised solely of celebrities' names, designer brands, and various luxury goods/destinations.
The novel was published in 2005, so all the references to in-brands, celebrity couples (none are still together) and hotspots (Bungalow 8 - does anyone still go there?) make the book feel dated.
Weisberger clearly though she'd found a winning formula.Bette is reasonably sympathetic, and the reader can see how she's sucked into a vortex of superficiality.
However, Weisberger's "good guys" are as nauseatingly superficial as the "bad guys." Uncle Will is supposed to be the voice of reason, I think, but he grates on the nerves.
If I had read The Devil Wears Prada first, I don't think I would have read Everyone Worth Knowing. The plots of these two books are so similar. Girl gets job. Girl hates job. Girl makes the best of her situation. Girl quits job.
I am not your typical "chick lit" fan, but I must confess that I really like this author - she writes bright, funny, light-hearted books and she can actually compose a sentence!
On the other hand, I think that every girl-oriented book about a young woman making her way through the strange world of upper-crust NYC will always be a pale imitation of The Devil Wears Prada.
I do recommend Everyone Worth Knowing to any woman looking for a fun, refreshing read that won't make you feel like you're lowering your literary standards in the process.
15/01/10 - Changed my rating from 2 to 1 starI cannot believe I even rated this anything other than 1 star; it was ridiculous when I recall the main plot involving the potagonist and her 'boyfriend'. A few years of reading and some growing up did wonder to your expectation in books I guess.
When I started reading this book I forgot that a) I had read it before and b) it was stupid.
This book does not stand the test of time.
Seeing it is about high fashion, partying, and basically the social scene of everything high society, the references to Lindsay Lohan, Playboy Bunnies, Paris Hilton's sex tape, P.
And the references to fashion sense are certainly outdated as well.
Or maybe I'm just too old for this ridiculousness anymore.
I don't care about this stuff at all anymore and it really just seems trivial and pointless to read about it.
And this is a yawn story anyway, very much like the author's much more popular book The Devil Wears Prada, but not near at good.
'Everyone Worth Knowing' got me through a tough time in my life.
Once this book captured my attention with its cute, little cover art, I was definitely hooked.
Bette's situations and life as a whole, transported me to another world.
Like the jacket says, "What happens when a girl on the fringe enters the realm of New York's chic, party-hopping elite??" Every book is different for every single person, but the main purpose of reading is to "transport" you to another time and place.
It lets you forget about everyday life and the stresses that accompany it.
Weisberger's book definitely accomplished that for me.
I have a hard time putting an audio book on my "Read" shelf - but what the hell.
I find that I will listen to books that I don't necessarily want to read.
I read Weisberger's first book and liked it well enough.
This is her second and it has the same feel as the first.
I even found myself lamenting not being able to hurry up and finish last night when I was on the second to last disc on the way home and the story was hitting it's pinnacle.
I guess that means I liked it.
I wasn't impressed with The Devil Wears Prada--too much hype--so wasn't expecting much from this book by the same author.However, in the end it won with me because:--I listened to the audiobook on what was a bit of an unwanted and nervewracking last-minute road trip so the distraction was greatly appreciated.
--Eliza Dushku as narrator did a really great job.
My biggest complaint with "Prada" had been that it was too freaking long for what it was.
I'm sure I won't even remember specific plot details by next month but there's no great travesty there.
Overall, not great but not bad.
This book is not worth reading. Seriously. DO NOT DO IT.
This book has been on my tbr for years, literally.
It's a book that I've been wanting to read while on vacation as I figured that it would be a good beach read.
I've carted it around with me on several trips, and I finally got to it on a recent trip to St. Lucia.
While it was a decent vaycay book, it left me slightly disappointed.
Yes, it was fairly breezy and light, perfect for my purposes.
And I have to give props to Weisberger for her engaging and intelligent writing.
But overall, the story left me feeling kinda yucky.
My bad experience with Devil Wears Prada and the uninteresting synopsis made me have little to no interest in reading it.
Our main character let herself be used and manipulated, failed to stand up for herself or even divide her private life from her public one by at least 1%.
Because after trying (and failing) to let us wonder what was going on with Philip, thing that was supposedly a very important part of this book, the author doesn't give us nothing on what happened next with the guy, were there consequences of that "confession".
The sometimes negative feedback given to "chic lit" novels is understandable at times, yet I feel that Weisberger's characters in "Everyone Worth Knowing" are written in an ordinary enough way that readers are able to more easily relate to them.
The are posed as every day people, doing every day things, in our often times cold world.
Weisberger's writing in this novel taught me that it is ok to simply tell an average story that readers will enjoy even if it may not be considered a literary masterpiece.
This book was doomed from the start, it was the same typical "girl has lousy job, (almost always a banking job) Girl has family member that can hook her up with a "better" job, girl has no backbone whatsoever, ETC...We meet Bette, a seemingly nice girl, and right off, I could tell she was a pushover.
I just don't get how this girl, who lives in New York, works around people from the city, and lives around city people, can be such a pushover, with absolutely no will, or self respect.I just don't understand why this girl cannot seem to speak her mind about ANYTHING, but I suppose that would make it too easy, wouldn't it?
Although this book reprises the theme of examining the horrors of an entry level job, and uses a glittery version of New York City for its setting, it departs from *The Devil Wears Prada* in several ways.
For one, there is more sympathy for all the characters.
The protagonist is earnest, foolish, and occasionally depressed, but she seems to have more resources for moving toward what she wants than did the protagonist of *Prada*.
Her boss and coworkers are colorful and sometimes devious, but also seem earnest and foolish.
No one character has to carry the role of ultimate evil.
Definitely a fun chick lit read !
Read "the Devil Wears Prada", change the names.
HORRIBLE.I'm assuming that Weisberger has the shortest memory in history, and her publisher also suffers from the same affliction.
"Everyone Worth Knowing" is the EXACT SAME BOOK as "The Devil Wears Prada"- all she did is change names and evil, soul sucking jobs and kept the format so predictably familiar that I was laughing half way through.
I don't need to read another Weisberger book because I can tell you exactly what will happen.
HOW FUCKING UN CREATIVE ARE YOU WEISBERGER?
Thank god I only got this book from the library and didn't waste any actual money!
what a waste!
I feel like I need to give this review in the context of its predecessor "The Devil Wears Prada," which was good.
Did I just read the same book over again!?She name-dropped people who aren't even really that famous or cool anymore.
And I got kind of annoyed when she quit her job on a whim, which seemed out of character for the cool, down-to-earth heroine she was trying to build.
Okay, I'm a sucker for even a halfway decent love-story, despite the annoying things I already mentioned.Honestly, if I hadn't read "the devil wears prada" I would have liked this book.
Boring. Maybe chick lit is not made for me. I also found boring Sushi for beginners, by Marian Keyes. Nevertheless, I loved The secret Dreamworld of a Shopaholic, by Sophie Kinsella and The Beach House, by Jane Green. I think I need deeper stories, not so shallow as this one. I don't know.
What happens when a girl on the fringe enters the realm of New York's chic, party-hopping elite?I read this awhile ago and sadly this book didn't make an impact on me to remember it. I do remember I didn't really care for it but found some parts amusing. I recommend reading this if you have a lazy Sunday to kill.
Summary:Bette breaks up with boyfriend, and then is stuck with a dog that is basically allergic to everything out there (Bette also happens to be allergic to dogs but is okay with this one?) She works at a banking company, but hates it so much she up and quitsHer uncle Will is a tabloid worker and makes a few calls to his old assistant (Kellie) who just happens to own her own party company.
She starts work with Kellie and during a night out at one of her parties she meets Sammy (a bouncer) at bungalow 8.
What follows is one episode after another of Bette climbing up the social ladder at the expense of her friends, family, and the one guy who actually seems worth pursuing.I usually don’t review books I didn’t like, partially because I write myself and know what an arduous job it is to have something finished, printed and sold.
I was so disappointed.I didn’t read The Devil Wears Prada, but heard glorifying reviews.
I didn’t like it, but you might if you were a fan of The Devil wears Prada.Ah.Try it yourself is the only sensible conclusion here.
The Gist: Bette Robinson quits her boring, thankless banker job, and starts working at Manhattan's hottest PR firm where she is expected to party and be seen at the trendiest clubs and restaurants in NYC. She then meets local celebrity Philip Weston and unwittingly becomes a celebrity herself. Pretty soon Bette's life becomes tabloid fodder, and she discovers the price of fame as her personal and professional lives collide.Sounds interesting, right?Sadly, unfortunately,  Everyone Worth Knowing
Pretty soon Bette's life becomes tabloid fodder, and she discovers the price of fame as her personal and professional lives collide.Sounds interesting, right?Sadly, unfortunately, 
(view spoiler)[She knew that Sammy valued his career over her, knew that she would always play second fiddle, but she pined for him anyway.
She was an idiot in love but she deserved better than that.Then there's Sammy, the cook-bouncer-aspiring restaurateur.
He was supposed to be the lone decent guy in Bette's new life.
except (view spoiler)[he's a pretty crappy boyfriend.
(hide spoiler)] Much like the novel, Sammy only looked good in the beginning.The Verdict: For me, this was painful, painful reading.
"Everyone Worth Knowing" is the story of what happens when a girl on the fringe enters the realm of New York's chic, party-hopping elite.
Lauren Weisberger's first job, after graduating with a BA in English and travelling the world with a small backpack, was as the Assistant to the Editor-in-Chief of Vogue, Anna Wintour.
"The Devil Wears Prada" was published in 2003 and spent 6 months on the NYT best-seller list.
Her second novel, "Everyone Worth Knowing," was published in 2005 and is also a NYT best-seller.
Really not worth reading unless it's the last book in the world, though.
Looking for a fluffy, no-brains-required, everything-is-over-the-top-and-ridiculous weekend read? This fits the bill nicely. The characters are very cliched and everything is an over the top party and somehow it stills makes for a mindless entertaining read. Sometimes you just read something fun, and this book fits that.
I really hope the author stops writing books soon so I can stop reading them.
I think in teh future this one might stand as a good example of these cultural touchstones and ways of being that largely vanished or became very uncool so soon afterward.
It's probably frustratingly dated to some readers now, but I think in another ten years it will come across as rather cute and retro, and the accoutrements of this peculiar time, when it was OK to be rich and bitchy AND not involved in SoulCycle will only stand out more.
Library Journal: Who wouldn't want a job that allows one to party for a living?
For Bette, a style-challenged, romance novel–obsessed daughter of hippies, the high-stakes world of celebrity takes a little getting used to—especially once she is catapulted into the arms of one of New York's most eligible bachelors and finds her every move splashed about in an infamous gossip column.
Her new catch doesn't interest her as much as the hunky nightclub bouncer, Sammy, yet she must keep up the ruse for appearances.
--MishaStone (Reviewed September 15, 2005) (Library Journal, vol 130, issue 15, p57)
I had enjoyed the guilty pleasure of The Nanny Diaries, and when my best friend told me she secretly loved chick-lit, I decided to give it a try.
The shallow, self-absorbed main character, whom we're supposed to believe is interesting enough for everyone to follow her life in the newspaper and qualified enough for her Fabulous job.
(And also, women everywhere in Weisberger's world, even highly educated and qualified ones, want Fabulous jobs in fashion and entertainment) The staunch homophobia, with only truly flaming homosexual characters (and all effete men being secretly homosexual) was what really turned me off from this book.Experiment?
