https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8200.A_Little_House_Traveler
I had already read On The Way Home and West From Home several times, but had never seen The Road Back, which is the chronicle of Laura and Almanzo's road trip they took in the 30s back to DeSmet, SD to visit.
The roadside cabins, the conditions of the roads, and the prices Laura faithfully noted (up to the final entry), all make for interesting reading.
On the Way Home takes place right after The First Four Years and is a record of the family's covered wagon trip from DeSmet to Mansfield, MO, where they lived for the rest of their lives.
A really interesting book, packed with extra stories from little house, and to what happened after "The first four years". Laura's writing style isnt so polished. My favourite part was the one of the journey to San Francisco. Roses side of the story at the end of part one was very cute, too. I also liked that they included photos of the characters and the real site.This isnt a Little House book. Its an extra. But beware of the fact that this is a compilation of three books: On the way home, West
A really interesting book, packed with extra stories from little house, and to what happened after "The first four years".
I also liked that they included photos of the characters and the real site.This isn´t a Little House book.
But beware of the fact that this is a compilation of three books: On the way home, West from home and The road back.
West from Home is about Laura´s visit to San Francisco at the time of the 1915 Panama-Pacific exhibition.
The road back portrays a visit to De Smet when Laura and Almanzo were older.
This book contains the previously released "On the Way Home" and "West from Home" as well as "The Road Back", Laura's account of her and her husband's 1931 trip back to DeSmet, South Dakota.
At the time of this trip, Laura was 64 years old and Almanzo was 74.
I read this book mainly for Laura's diary of her and Almanzo's trip back to DeSmet.
I now live in South Dakota, and it was kind of a trip to read her referencing the same highways, routes and towns I've visited in the state.
While not written with the same charm as her earlier books, the three journeys described in A Little House Traveler give us new insight into Laura, the adult she became, and how she viewed the changing world around her.All three trips described in the book are written in Laura’s own words either in journal entries or letters.
Later, on the visit back to De Smet, she records how much money they spent each day and the state of the accommodation in which they stayed.While I didn’t find the book gripping reading, I did enjoy getting to know the adult Laura a little, and was able to appreciate how much the world, and particularly America, of course, changed during her lifetime.
I really liked this book. The first part is Laura's journal entries from when they moved from De Smet to Mansfield, Missouri. The part I LOVED though, was Laura's letters to Almanzo describing the 1915 World's Fair in San Franciso. I have always loved San Fran, but his made me love it more.
A Little House Traveler: Writings from Laura Ingalls Wilder’s Journeys Across America is really like three books in one so I’ll discuss each section separately.Laura Ingalls Wilder Travels from South Dakota to MissouriThe first section is Laura’s journal of the family (Laura, Almanzo, and Rose) and their journey from South Dakota to Missouri in 1894.Some things I noted as I read: In the intro to the book, Laura’s daughter Rose mentions Coxey’s armies which were rampaging their way to Washington, protesting for jobs.
This is just a review of the last section of the book, since it doesn't appear anywhere else and the other two sections were already published as separate works.It's not really meant to be great literature, just a collection of letters and journals, but it's interesting to see Laura re-trace her steps to the "Little Town on the Prairie" and some of her roots, and also seeing the early years of the Depression through her eyes on her travels. Not the most fascinating read, but nice if you want the more complete picture of her life and travels.
I very much enjoyed the three compilations of Laura's writings (and some of Rose's) from her three trips. Each was charming and gave a good picture of the times and place. I'm partial to the middle one, about the 1915 Panama-Pacific International Exhibition in San Francisco. Only disappoint is that several times she mentioned planning to visit Mill Valley (where my son and his family live) but there was nothing about such a visit. I hope she did go!
Very interesting, like stepping back in time. Also nice to say hi to old friends and hear how their lives turned out. My five year old enjoyed this book as well, though not nearly as much as he enjoyed the Little House books of course - those books he had me read to him eighty pages at a time; this book he had me read to him off and on over a period of about four months.
3.5 Stars ... I enjoyed these quotidian travel entries, full of daily (travel) life and minutiae
I truly enjoyed this diary- type telling about Laura and her family as they traveled across the United States in search of a home. It was enjoyable peering into her history a little bit. I think this would make a great movie, that would enhance the Little House on the Prairie series. Laura's life stories are much loved and it would be great to have some of the innocence of those tv programs brought back. Family watching for sure. Will be reading more about the Ingalls and Wilders.
The first, "On the Way Home," and the last, "The Road Back," are diaries, one chronicling the family's journey from South Dakota to Missouri (1894) and the other, a trip "back home" Laura and her husband made years later, in 1931.
The middle section, "West From Home," is a series of letters Laura wrote to Almanzo during a trip to San Francisco in 1915.
The diaries are often abbreviated jottings; "On the Way Home" is more detailed and far more interesting than "The Road Back," which focuses on budgets, routes, and meals.
Laura clearly took time with her letters, attempting (successfully) to convey all that she was seeing, feeling, and hearing to Almanzo.
this book is about the travels of Laura Ingalls wilder throughout her life.
In 1879 she traveled west to the Dakota territory where she lived with her family in Desmet.
Her and Almanzo had a daughter named Rose Wilder Lane.
Rose Wilder became a prolific writer also.
On the Way Home is about her 1894 move with Rose and Alamanzo from South Dakota to Missouri.
West From Home consists of letters from Laura to Alamanzo as she traveled to Calif.
The last section is about 1931 Laura and Almanzo took a car back to Desmet where they met and married.
I don't know if this book will appeal to anyone who doesn't have a deep and abiding love for Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House series.
It is odd to think she wrote these letters and journals before ever writing her beloved Little House books.
Laura's pioneer pragmatism is well evident in these writings but also is her sense of adventure and appreciation of wonder.
The girl who lusted for her fine volume of Tennyson's Poems hidden in a drawer until Christmas has a brand of poetry all her own.(I can't reign in my nerdiness over Laura Ingalls Wilder, just can't!)
They still hold all the appeal for me that they ever did, maybe even more now that my life is more complicated than ever.I know I'm romanticizing pioneer times and her life but I'm very attracted to the self-reliant, the frugality (opposites attract, right?), the waste not-want not attitude, the outdoors, the fewer choices.A Little House Traveler prints two journals she kept as an adult, one when they moved from De Smet to Missouri (where they settled), and one when they returned to De Smet fourty years later for a visit and prints the letters she mailed Manly when she visited their daughter in San Francisco in 1915.It was fun for me to read and it reminded me that while I have a certain longing for things as they were ...
The first part of the book is Laura's journal that she kept on her and Almonzo's journey from DeSmet South Dakota to thier final home in Mansfield Missouri.
(So see, this was thee perfect book for me to buy there!) I found her journal to be very interesting and after just visiting the home, it was so profound to read about them finding the land and thinking to myself...WOW!
The second part of the book is comprised of the letters that Laura wrote to Almonzo while she was visiting Rose in San Francisco for a few months.
Laura describes things with a great eye for detail and finds beauty in the long journey.
The last is the reason I bought the book at the Loftus Store in De Smet, as I hadn't read it anywhere else.
It is called "The Road Back" and is Laura's notes of their car trip in 1931 to De Smet and the Black Hills to visit Grace and Carrie.
She details their expenses and where they stay and sends all the notes back to Rose for a future writing project.
Because she has such a good descriptive eye, the notes are quite interesting.
The writings of Laura Ingalls Wilder have sparked the interest of readers who are eager to learn about life on the prairie during the 1800s for a long time now.
If readers are introduced to Laura for the first time this collection is an excellent way to learn about this remarkable young girl and her life's journey.
This is not a book for young readers alone, adults will enjoy this page turner as well.
This is a good time for families to sit down and discuss their own history and enlighten young readers.
The details of the trip from Dakota's drought and heat to the beautiful green Ozark Hills where Laura and Manly made their home is fascinating.
I did find the third part to be melancholy, mainly because Laura's family has disappeared, Pa, Ma and Mary are dead and Grace and Carrie are old, far older than Laura in spirit it appears.The central and longest part of the book is Laura's trip to see her daughter Rose in San Francisco in 1916 during the great expo.
It's difficult to read because it almost feels like Rose was mocking her mother.
This is a compilation of 3 different times in Laura's life.
The first a journal of her journey out of the Dakota Territory in 1894 to Mansfield, Missouri (where she lived for the rest of her life); the second letters to Almanzo in 1915 when she visited Rose in San Francisco and last another journal of the trip back to the Dakota Territory..
The letters were my favorite part and I would like to visit San Francisco again in my life.
Her letters were very descriptive and she seems to have a loving relationship with Almanzo.
This compliation reminded me of the progress in her life time..
As always, I didn't enjoy Rose's "editing" - I find her introduction at the start of On The Way Home to be a little pretentious, and not really that useful.
It would have been good to have an introduction to each section from one of the Laura scholars - of which there are many!A few people have commented that this isn't a book for children.
I reread On the Way Home many times as an 11 and 12 year old girl, finding the whole book really exciting.
(note that I am reviewing this title only for the previously unpublished journal entries about Laura and Almanzo's 1931 trip to De Smet .
my reviews for "On the Way Home", and "West from Home" can be found under each respective title)I didn't end up liking this set of journal entries as much as the ones in "On the Way Home".
Perhaps because they traveled by car back to South Dakota, rather than by horse and wagon, Laura didn't have as much time to document things as meticulously as she did in her journey from De Smet ca.
Though, there was information there about what each day's costs were like, and that was fascinating!
I'd like to thank my friend Diane Sutcliffe for suggesting this book to me, I loved it.
It's a hardback with two previously published books, On the Way Home and West from Home, and a never-before published partial journal that Laura kept when she and Almanzo went back to De Smet, South Dakota.
I have already read both of the previously released books many times and enjoyed them, but the highlight of the book for me was the unreleased journal of Laura's.
If you're a die hard fan of the Little House books, I seriously suggest reading this book, it's great.
As someone who grew up with people that watched Little House On The Prairie all the time, I thought this would be a very interesting look into other parts of Laura's life.
And while I did learn more about her life and it was interesting, this book was just okay.
It was a little boring at times and I found myself having to just push through to finish.
Also, her descriptions of things could be very long-winded, which isn't bad, just sometimes the things she described were things I wasn't interested in, which made it boring and slow for me.
Overall an okay read.
(Also, BookTubeAThon book number 3!)
She kept almost a daily entry during their trip.
Then it has the letters she wrote back to Almanzo while she was visiting Rose and Gillette in San Fransisco.
That was interesting to me since many of her entries were 'to the day' I a was reading but MANY years later.
Having to been eyes for her sister Mary her letters home years later are filled with the same details and energy she would have described for Mary.
I have personally never been to San Fransisco but would be neat to see if the things she described are still 'true' this day.
This is a combination of On the Way Home, West from Home (both I had already read) with The Road Back.
The Road Back details a car (?!) trip that Laura and Almanzo take back to De Smet.
Initially, I was excited at the prospect.
But, then realized that Laura was 64 and Almanzo 74.
They end up visiting Grace and then Carrie.
Laura spends more time discussing the cost of land & how much they spent on gas, food and lodging each day than anything else.
Though, it does answer some questions of what became of Laura after the series ended.
I always love anything "Laura" and this was no exception. I enjoyed reading Laura's journal entries from her travels. I found them especially interesting since I have traveled through most of the places she talked about like Silver Lake, Kansas; St. Marys, Kansas; Topeka, Kansas, and many others. I wish she had mentioned more of her emotions as she traveled back to De Smet, South Dakota, in 1931, but that wasn't something folks did in those days. They dealt in facts, not feelings. Not a bad way to live. If you love Laura, you'll love A Little House Traveler
All right, raise your hands...how many of you knew that Laura's daughter wrote before she did, and that Laura learned about getting published from Rose?This is the travels Laura made after (even) "the First Four Years," being read here in anticipation of our trip westward. I'm finding the letters that Laura wrote home to Almanzo from her visit to Rose in San Francisco particularly interesting.
A mix of her two diary compilations. An interesting way to fill in the gaps of her life the Little House books didn't cover. I enjoyed this more than other adult Laura publications (her newspaper columns, etc.) - felt more like the original books than those.Actually wish it was longer, as my only complaint was that it was a bit short. But what can you do? She only wrote so much.Really would give this more like 3.5 stars, but 3 seemed too low.
