https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7780.The_Secret_Art_of_Dr_Seuss
I love a good art book and I often pick them up from the library to browse through, but I've never reviewed one, simply because I just don't feel qualified!
However, this one was so much fun and so different that I just had to share.
If you are a fan of Dr. Seuss, you will love this simple picture book, filled will all sorts of strange delights!A few of my favorites:1.
Oh, I'd Love to Go to the Party, But I'm Absolutely Dead (p.
There They Stood Exactly as They Were Created (p.
Gosh!, Do I Look as Old as That!
No surprises here, although if you like Dr. Seuss' drawings then you'll probably enjoy this book.
The bulk of his "secret art" looks exactly like his regular book illustrations, except in full color (rather than the color-added B&W pictures we're used to from his books).
I love these surreal expressionist paintings. I especially love all of his surreal cats. In contrast to his political commentary cartoons, I love everything about these drawings and paintings.
This is not an impressive book. It contains various plates of Dr. Suess and his art not related to the many children's books he wrote during his life. Some of the unique characters and definitely the illustration style on many of these paintings evoke the whimsey and fun he is known for, but unfortunately much of what is shown is just not that interesting. Nothing new is really shown here or learned by the reader so I'm at a loss as to what purpose this book really fills. Pass.
Gorgeous collection of Dr. Seuss's art. (I won't say "artwork", because he thought painting wasn't "work" and he'd therefore only do it at night.) I've long wanted this book, and my sweet nieces (with a bit of help from their mother) gave it to me for Christmas! Oh frabjous day! Callou, callay! Whoops, wrong work, but you get the idea.
At this point I think it's exceptionally rare to meet someone who HASN'T heard of Dr. Seuss, the author and illustrator who created dozens of weird but charming children's books (some with clever social and political commentary that kids won't get but adults will appreciate), as well as films, political cartoons, newspaper comics, and much more.
This collection, while by no means comprehensive, gives us a glimpse at the "secret art" of this legendary creator, art that maintains his trademark style yet contains more depth, darkness, and strangeness than his children's work ever could.These pieces range from simple line drawings to boldly colored oil paintings to even strange combinations of sculpture and taxidermy.
I read the letter from his wife and the Intro which was by......bugger the book is downstairs and I have forgotten the artists name.
It gave some background to one of the paintings that is in the book and about Ted Giesel as well.There are many full page color images of artwork.
One or two have little things to them that are more for adults but nothing too bad that you could not let your kid see.
You would get more information on each of these paintings with the little card they hang next to an artwork telling about it than you get from this book.
crazy look into Dr Seuss and his approach to art.
This book is interesant
Not what I was expecting. Very surealist. Very dark. Plainly he was a fan of Escher.
how fabulous is this book
Awesome to see the art of Seuss/Geisel. Wonderful surrealism with his whimsical touch on more adult themes, but still with a child-like innocence to them. Excellent art book.
One of my favorite authors and artists.
An interesting look into the private art of Dr Seuss that he painted late at night in his art studio. I thought I'd already done a lengthy review for this book but perhaps I forgot!
These fabulous, whimsical paintings, created for his own pleasure and never shown to the public
very good book, I like it
Theodore Geisel produced art outside of his more commercially-known art. This book is a quick appetizer of those works, but an appetizer is not a meal. Not much information is shared aside from the pictures and the titles -- other books may have more comprehensive collections.
I was surprised to see that along with paintings and drawings he also made sculptures.
Admittedly I didn't like the sculptures as much because they utilized animal horns which just made me feel uncomfortable.
This book is full of art by Dr. Seuss that you never saw in any of his books.
Many of these pictures are PG-13 and not suitable for children's books.
This art is for teens and adults who would like to appreciate another side to Dr. Seuss.
I enjoyed looking at this other art as I have a high appreciation for art of all types.
And it is also interesting to see Dr. Seuss' quirky style and sense of humor.
I would have liked to see so much more from this amazing man who changed the world of children's literature.
Charming collection of paintings and sculptures that Dr. Seuss worked on in his free time from the 1920s, mostly in the 1960s and up to 1975.
The book presents paintings in water colors and inks, some of them character studies of creatures that might populate his books, some delightful experiments with color and pattern, and several sculptures of fantastic creatures incorporating animal horn.
According to a brief note by his widow (now deceased herself), he created these works for his own amusement only, and an introduction by Maurice Sendak reiterates the point, recalling Ted Geisel (aka Dr. Seuss) being astonished and amused by any attempt to analyze his work.

I picked this book up at the library just because the title sounded intriguing.
And I've been on a Dr. Seuss reading jag recently.
I starting reading this book, and three hours later, I put it down.This is a collection of artwork by Dr. Seuss.
Pictures he would draw for his own entertainment, when he was working of his books.
None of these have ever been released to the public before.
And I loved ever one of them.
Do a search on Google for "Secret Art of Dr. Seuss," click on "Images," and you will see them.Enjoy.
Dr. Seuss was quite an accomplished artist, which is obvious to anyone who has seen his brilliant illustrations. It's always been my opinion that his best books are the ones he illustrated himself. However, he was also quite a painter, particularly with watercolors. Brilliant, absurd, black & white along with color prints are collected here, works that Seuss would only allow a select few to see in his lifetime. Pure eye candy from one of the 20th century's geniuses.
I loooooove this book! One of my all-time favorite coffee table books. If you think you've seen Dr. Seuss but haven't seen any of this work - well, you haven't seen Dr. Seuss!My favorites are:"An Alley Cat for a Very Long Alley""A Man Who Has Made an Unwise Purchase""Freebird""Every Girl Should Have a Unicorn"This is must-see. I've been fortunate to see some of Theodor Seuss Geisel's originals in the UCSD collections.
fascinating. the grown up real life art of dr. suess is a combination of distorted reality and the childhood stories that are forever in the back of your mind. ive had this book for years, but just took it out to look through again and lo, what a world. and i only say "lo" on very rare occasions. promise.
Dr. Seuss was a great artist, there's no two ways about it, and if like me you get headaches reading his irritating prose then this is your book. His plaster sculptures of cute critters will amuse you, his ink and watercolor works will enthrall you with their brilliant surrealism and he possesses a great color sense. Great art without the annoying tongue-twister jive.
Theodore Geisel (Dr. Seuss), the author who revolutionized children's books, painted late at night for fun. This collection of his paintings, with a personal note by his wife and a brief introduction by Maurice Sendak, reveals some facets of his artistry unseen in his books, although the signature zany characters still figure prominently.
This was such a wonderful book, a real treasure of a find in the local library. With the trademark characteristics familiar to fans of Dr. Seuss, as well as some more 'adult' characteristics, this book contains some of pieces of art which are perhaps the best I have ever seen, and indeed, some of my new favorites. Loved, loved, LOVED! this book.
It is a wonderful book with a short biography of Ted Geisel also known as Dr. Seuss. It contains many pictures that he painted in his private life that he wasn't ready to share at the time. He painted pictures for fun. He seemed to especially enjoy painted cats. Many of his paintings are untitled but some do have titles and the year he painted them.
O.K., so technically there were only a few pages of actual reading in this book -- the rest was a collection of mind-altering art that Dr. Seuss created. No one else like him -- but then again, anyone familiar with his infamous books, already knows that. Quite interesting -- my mind certainly does not work like that, so I marvel at his perspective and ability.
