https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40717531-the-leper-of-saint-giles

I read a book by another author and just had to return to Ellis Peters.
So to get a full picture please read my review of that here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...What I want to add here is that the author's words used to describe the English medieval world are beautiful and perfect.
Oak to provide the cleft heartwood for the spokes with the grain unbroken and springy, subtle ash to make the curved fallows of the rim wood." (Chapter 8)And when the action gets into full swing, there is  ..."the blade flashing in the torchlight!" (Chapter 10)I like how every element of the story is neatly tied up.
My absolute favourite of the Brother Cadfael series.
But who's the murderer, and will the two lovers be united in the end?The characters are well-developed (with the possible exception of the young maiden who is too weak for my liking, but I can see how her weakness helps advance the plot).The backdrop is extremely interesting: a leper colony near the Abbey of St. Peter and St. Paul.
Not so in this story where sweet Brother Mark sees to all his patients with ultimate devotion.As usual, Brother Cadfael will unfold the thread and solve the mystery.
I really like this series. The mysteries, as enjoyable as they are, are almost entirely beside the point for me, given how much I admire Ms. Pargeter's command of history and ability to weave in details and bring the setting to life.
Ellis Peters has found her pace and strides boldly forward.“The trouble with things so obviously suspect, after all, is that they may indeed be true.”These are tales of murder and romance in medieval England.
Just as the obvious culprit may be innocent, so the obvious lover may not be the best.
Excellent story, well told.Cadfael series: excellent historical fiction.
Ellis Peters draws the reader into the twelfth century with modern story telling but holds us there with a richness of detail which evokes a time and place which might as well be fictional.
Ovo je zapravo jedna od boljih misterija brata Kadfaela, zadovoljavajuće složeno (mada nije da nismo svaki obrt videli na sto metara udaljenosti) i natprosečno lepo napisano, uz lep komad botanike ubačen u detektivsko istraživanje. Malo sumnjam da su u srednjem veku odnosi zdravih i gubavaca bivali baš ovoliko komotni i drugarski, ali svejedno, kad je krimić cosy nek je do daske.
Beautiful young orphan heiress Iveta de Massard is to wed very much older Baron Huon de Domville at Shrewsbury Abbey in two days time.
Iveta, is secretly thrilled--until Huon is found murdered and Joscelin (who had had a very public quarrel with Huon the day before) is sought as his killer.Brother Cadfael gets to shine in his role as 'medical examiner', determining just how Huon died.
In the course of his investigations he also discovers that Huon had a secret life that was known to very few, his murderer included.Lots of lovely twists to the story, including how the leper sanctuary of St Giles comes to be involved.
Brother Cadfael is a constant joy.
I seem to read the entire collection every few years when I feel the need to escape to a simpler time.
The mysteries are never too obvious but never too arcane.
Brother Mark, who we met in an earlier volume, continues to grow in grace and humility.
He is a splendid creation, exemplifying the best of the monastic system of his time.
One of the joys of these books is the clearly drawn society with all its customs and foibles.
I always learn a few new things each time I wander happily through a volume.
Best up to now. I feel like I am living in the 12th century in Shrewsbury:)
Excellent re-read of a favourite. Ellis Peters' plotlines are near perfect. The good and the bad each get their just deserts!
I don't always wish that I was a 12th Century Benedictine monk but when I read the Brother Cadfael stories I do. Another great mystery. The audiobook narrator was fantastic.
Character List(view spoiler)[Characters The Leper of Saint Giles (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael #5) Huon de Domville small, black, shrewd eyes, as poorly endowed with lashes as with sockets, but malevolently intelligent.  Simon Aguilon, the oldest of the three squires in Domville’s service Joscelin Lucy squire Guy FitzJohn youngest of the threeRoger de Clinton, bishop of CoventryLazarus - traveling leperGodfrid Picard and his party, Agnes Picard wife Iveta Massard bride to be Ellis Peters - Cad
Character List(view spoiler)[Characters	The Leper of Saint Giles (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael #5) Huon de Domville small, black, shrewd eyes, as poorly endowed with lashes as with sockets, but malevolently intelligent.
A short, simple mystery set in the year 1139 in Shrewsbury, England and its environs.
Brother Cadfael, herbalist, monk and solver-of-mysteries- extraordinaire weighs in on the death of Huon de Domville on the eve of his wedding.
Whodunnit?*Joscelin Lucy, Domville's squire, known by many to be in love with the bride-to-be?
Would he set up his best friend to take the rap for him?*Domville's hunting lodge keeper?
Is he hiding secrets worth killing for?Ellis Peters wraps up this mystery in 201 short pages while giving the reader a wonderful look at the culture and monastery life of the age.4.0 stars
The Leper of Saint Giles is book five in Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael mystery series.
While taking various medicines out to the Saint Giles leper colony, Brother Cadfael happens upon both parts of a wedding party: the groom, old and surly, and the bride, forlorn and hemmed in by her guardians.
When she lies to the abbot trying to protect the squire that she loves from charges of theft, Cadfael can think of no way to stop the wedding.
Luckily, the groom turns up murdered so the faithful monk sets out to prove the innocence of squire.
In this fifth novel of worldly monk and self-appointed detective Cadfael, the tension of the book hinges first upon a bleak arranged marriage and the young man who is in love with the bride.
There is a rhythm, a pattern and poetry to Ellis Peters' novels, and if that makes certain aspects of the story predictable, the tradeoff is the experience of the book.
It's not for those who prefer a swift, action-packed pace, but is ideal for slow immersion.One of the best features of this series is that both the broader history - the tumult occurring in England between Empress Maud and King Stephen - and the personal history of Cadfael continue to evolve and change, not in earthshattering ways, but in subtle, organic steps.
The best of the five Cadfel Chronicles I've read so far.
While it follows the set formula, the end is more emotive and has something more than the formula.The Cadfel Chronicles seem to be set to a formula, but I like the formula.
The joy in reading the Cadfel Chronicles is not so much playing Sherlock Holmes or Poirot with clues, but the delightful opening up of the mystery.
The world is quaint, the language is wonderful, and the imitable Brother Cadfael never ceases to delight.Predictable as the mysteries seem to have become (I was able to guess the killer based on character traits alone in Cadfael #3, #4 & #5), they hold a charm that propels me into the rest of the series.
I really liked this episode of the TV series Cadfael and the book is even better.
As with the others in this series, the TV epsiode is faithfully rendered and shows a respect for the source material while simplifying the storyline enough to fit within the time constraints.
In the written version both Brother Oswin and Brother Mark are more richly detailed and likeable characters and Cadfael himself is a more soft spoken, more reverential, more contemplative figure.
Even for those thoroughly familiar with the television series, the book is worth the reading and an enjoyable time as well.
I am truly enjoying my stroll down memory lane with Brother Cadfael!
I first read this series over 20 years ago, got hooked on the broadcast on PBS of the series with Derek Jacobi as Cadfael, and have been hooked on historical mysteries ever since.I listened to the audiobook narrated beautifully by Patrick Tull, and the action flew by!
This time, a May-December marriage (no love match here - the young bride’s heart belongs to a squire in the household of the much older groom).
The groom is murdered on the eve of the wedding, and only Cadfael can save an innocent young man from the gallows...very satisfying!
A clever and entertaining historical mystery. I hadn't read one of these for years, and happened to pick this one up. I wasn't disappointed, but my WSOD was strained at some of the plot twists. Brother Cadfael is quite the detective, and the star-crossed lovers ended up in each other's arms. 3.4 stars.I'd never known (or, more likely, forgot) that the author is actually the late Edith Pargeter, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edith_P... ,who wrote many, many other books. The Cadfael Chronicles remain her best-known works. 21 of them!
Another great read as I hopscotch around the Brother Cadfael books. The monastic setting in this book is intriguing and the main character is now becoming one of my best friends.The plot centres around the Saint Peter's Fair of 1139. The Fair brings merchants from miles around to Shrewsbury. Brother Cadfael begins the great Saint Peter's Fair interpreting for a non-English merchant and ends up in the middle of a very confusing and dangerous political plot.
Baron Huon de Domville is brutally strangled on his wedding night.The most obvious suspect is the idiotic squire Josceline Lucy who goes to reckless extremes in his attempts to free his lord's fiance Iveta de Massard of her marriage.
"He had found his creeping gromwell, and he had found the place where Huon de Domville spent the last night of his life."Although I enjoyed the book again, I found the murderer and his motive a little too obvious from the start.
Another enjoyable sojourn in 12C England with former crusader Brother Cadfael.
The story has all the usual elements of this series: murder, young love, a dash of political history, and the wisdom and sharp observational skills of Cadfael.
I enjoy Peters' descriptive writing and the old-fashioned dialect.
The story is straight-forward and fairly transparent to mystery aficionados.
I have yet to be stumped by the reveal of the murder in this series and I correctly guessed very early in this one.
That said, Peters always manages to insert some history, sociology, botany, etc.
that I didn't know and find interesting.
This fifth book in the medieval mystery series involving Brother Cadfael is my favorite thus far.It is 1139, and Brother Cadfael is in charge of the herbarium at the abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul of Shrewsbury.
But a vicious murder halts the proceedings, and Cadfael, the unofficial coroner and detective of the abbey, must solve the crime.
The focus turns to the asylum, since the place everyone wants to avoid is a perfect place to hide.Evaluation: I love learning about medieval healing arts and customs via this “whodunnit” series.
3* A Morbid Taste for Bones (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael, #1)3* One Corpse Too Many (Chronicles of
I enjoyed this on many fronts. The relationships and motivations were well developed and credible, the characters believable and the period context subtly and convincingly sketched. I am reading these in order, and Brother Cadfael is now well rounded and consistent. I particularly like the author's capacity to create a medieval world in which people not only survive, but get the most out of life within their culture and constraints. The portrayal of a leper colony was deftly done. It's great to be discovering such a series at a time when there are so many o read.
Die mittelalterliche Welt ist sehr stimmungsvoll und interessant beschrieben. Auch die Figuren, Handlungen und Ermittlung bleibt immer authentisch. Einziger Kritikpunkt: Der Mordfall, Motiv und Täter waren etwas zu vorhersehbar.
From time to time I try one of the Cadfael series and regret it. They just don't work for me at all. Perhaps I should just stop trying.
A new mystery of a young heiress married off against her heart whose suitor is disposed off before their marriage. Cadfael condones murder again, which is intriguing.
A marriage is about to take place in Shrewsbury between a powerful lord and a young heiress in the care of her aunt and uncle.
A leper is struck out of the way of the procession by the bridegroom though in the main the town is tolerant of the lepers at St Giles hospital.When the bridegroom is found murdered a young squire of his is under suspicion but Cadfael doesn't believe him guilty and sets out to find out the real murderer.
I like the historical background and can almost feel as though I am in twelfth century Shrewsbury while I am reading.
What can I say? Brother Cadfael mysteries are easy to read and thoroughly enjoyable. I enjoyed this one just as much as the previous four, although the "bad guy" was easily identifiable from about a third of the way in. Still, the dialogues strike me as generally authentic, and Cadfael is likeable as always. Recommended for summer reading!
