https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36341204-what-if-it-s-us
Adam and Becky co-writing a book? I can smell the gay from miles away. And I can’t wait!
never in literature history have the gays won so hard until this collab
sounds gay, can't wait
I LOVED THIS SO MUCH <3 I shall be talking about it more in my upcoming Stories I Ate video, but UGH SO CUTE SO HAPPY MAKING SO WONDERFUL!!!
Adam and Becky were able to perfectly co-author this contemporary, making Arthur and Ben’s individual personalities present, whether they were writing their respective character’s chapters or writing the other’s in their own scenes.
(A lot of y’all probably won’t like it but if you can set aside a personal opinion for the sake of a fantastic literary ending, I think you’d really appreciate the value of it.) I just wish it had pushed the boundaries of what is to be expected of a typical young adult contemporary romance a little more.
ARC provided by HarperTeen in exchange for an honest review.  “I believe in love at first sight. Fate, the universe, all of it. But not how you’re thinking. I don’t mean it in the our souls were split and you’re my other half forever and ever sort of way. I just think you’re meant to meet some people. I think the universe nudges them into your path.”  My dear friend, Jules, dubbed this a “queer, modern day, Sleepless in Seattle, set in New York” and she was so damn correct. Friends, I loved this
Also, this book wonderfully touches upon how Arthur has ADHD, and how he lives a better life because of Adderall (which I know isn’t for everyone, but it still made me really happy to see).
And this book also just feels authentically “teen” I guess I’m trying to say?
I mean, I’m not a teenager, so I guess I’ll say that this book feels authentically “twenties” or something along those lines.
And even though I didn’t entirely love the epilogue at first, now I actually think it’s one of the best epilogues I’ve ever read.
you: Avengers: Infinity War is the crossover event of the yearme: an intellectual and contemporary YA fan: knows the real crossover event of the year Adam Silvera and Becky Albertalli dropping What If It’s Us  “I believe in love at first sight. Fate, the universe, all of it. But not how you’re thinking. I don’t mean it in the our souls were split and you’re my other half forever and ever sort of way. I just think you’re meant to meet some people. I think the universe nudges them into your path.”
Along the way there’s all the fluff and ridiculous yet unputdownable drama you’d expect from an Albertalli book and all the complicated relationships between friends, parents and ex-boyfriends, as well as discussions around identity, you’d expect from a Silvera book.Both Ben and Arthur are gay, and Ben is also Puerto-Rican.
I also really liked that Ben had already had a boyfriend because I just really enjoy stories where one or both characters have already dated people, for some reason.
I definitely enjoyed reading it, and I think lots of people are going to really love it.
Given how long the book is for a YA contemporary, you’d think that timeframe would have involved some legitimate drama, but it’s mostly just a lot of repetitive moments with Arthur pining over Ben, while Ben pines over his breakup.
He’s constantly reflecting on how Arthur is too short, or talks too much, and there’s the fact that there is an entire chapter dedicated to Ben whining internally about how bad Arthur is at arcade games—when Arthur never even wanted to go to the arcade, and Ben only dragged him there because it was somewhere Ben used to go with his ex.(I’m getting pissed off writing this review because it’s reminding me of how much I can’t stand Ben’s character.
“Hollywood will make a movie about you two. And a Netflix spin-off about your gay children.” Okay, no. I’m not accepting that ending. Just nope. Otherwise, Becky and Adam pretty much created magic with this book. The word (or has it become a term now?) ‘cinnamon rolls’ gets thrown around quite often for your cutesy kinda characters and while granted, a lot of them exist, I think Ben and Arthur take the damn cake. They were a match made in New York. This was just everything a romance novel shoul
The word (or has it become a term now?) ‘cinnamon rolls’ gets thrown around quite often for your cutesy kinda characters and while granted, a lot of them exist, I think Ben and Arthur take the damn cake.
This was just everything a romance novel should be and Becky and Adam captured the initial stages of crushing on someone so well, the online stalking (jeezus, I related to that!), the first few dates, the awkwardness because you’re not sure where this is going to go but then it beautifully settling into this rhythm you knew was there but hadn’t reached yet.
AND THIS IS EXACTLY WHY I AM NOT ACCEPTING THAT ENDING, OKAY?
I adored him and his bromance with Ben was the best thing to read!
“I guess that’s every relationship. You start with nothing and maybe end with everything.”  One of the unexpected sweetest books I’ve read all year about  failing at perfection, but finding something close anyway. What If It's Us follows two characters on a summer in New York forming a very-imperfect and very-cute relationship.✔Ben - Written by Adam Silvera. Puerto Rican and gay. Way too relatable. Thinks about prices more due to being from a low-income family. Just went through a breakup wher
Becky’s tone falls closest to her cute but realistically flawed Leah on the Offbeat and Adam’s closest to my absolute favorite book of his, They Both Die at the End. I feel like Becky is generally a much more fun writer, while Adam has a bit more of that quality factor; here, I felt like their different stiles both got those good qualities.
And I think their collab lends this book a unique tone; both of these characters are flawed, their relationship is flawed, and things aren’t ever perfect, but things don’t always suck, either.
I felt like the relationship came out of nowhere (view spoiler)[ they didn't seem to be working which obviously was partially because of the breakup and Ben's reservations but then magically they were just fine.
Once the relationship did get going it was obviously adorable.
I will say, the side characters were awesome and probably my favourite part of the book.
It was a solidly enjoyable audiobook, but I feel like if I had physically read it I may have gotten bored and moved on.
I still can’t believe I got an ARC for this! 😱🤩. I LOVED IT. ❤Is so good! Funny, interesting, cute, realistic (too much in my mind, but oh well, life) and with friendships/families/relationship goal.The writing, I’m in love with it. Is so beautiful and the story? YESSS. This book really shows that sometimes everything happens for a reason and maybe not in the circumstances or way that we expected, but still it happens and it might not end the way we want but afterwards, we find out it was for th
His personality is so great and how he doesn’t full around and just goes with it is really refreshing and I highlight every chapter of his POV, it was just so, so awesome.=>Ben, I love him too, he’s such a great character and the development that he has in the course of this book was just amazing and I really like how his vision about the universe change and why.=>Dylan, IS THE BEST BEST FRIEND EVER.
I would love it if there were a possibility of a sequel in the future.And a book with Dylan POV or short story, really anything, I’ll take it.
I admit that firstly (1) I said "ooh I'll review this later!" and forgot everything about it of ever, so I needed to reread, and (2) I still have thoroughly dissatisfied feelings about the ending.It's like, I'm just going to find some fanfic that fixes the epilogue??
I have a weakness for characters with no chill.☆ BEN: He is the softest introvert™ and just the fact that he loves living in his head, playing Sims and writing fantasy novels, afjdksald it just makes me really connect to him.
This book has so little chill I love that."Jesus, Arthur.
why did you all make me think I was going to cry at this ending???? all this book did was intensify my own gay panic! at the disco
It’s really a 3,5 tho.---- ACLARANDO:Todo el libro fue súper ligero y bonito y me hizo sonreír bastante, sólo le vi dos problemas:1- El "climax" fue algo ¿ridículo? Una exageración, muchísimo drama sacado de proporciones. O sea, creo que los personajes reaccionaron muy mal a algo que se pudo haber arreglado rápido. EN FIN.2- No me gustó nada el final. Lo entiendo y tal vez yo hubiera hecho lo mismo, pero no me gustó.TODO LO DEMÁS FUE BELLO. Sí leería otra cosa de estos dos autores juntos (y separados).
And even though I only gave it 2 stars, I still think it has some quality stuff, like- lots of diversity- sex positive and CONSENT!!- DYLAN (omg Dylan was the real MVP of this book let's be real)- aaaaand to be honest that's about itHere's what I had issues with:- For the first 200 pages, i literally couldn't tell Ben and Arthur apart.
this book was an interesting reading experience for me because its co-written by one author i absolutely adore (silvera) and one that i strongly dislike (albertalli).
and i honestly thought my love would outweigh my hate - but in reality, it just left me split right down the middle.
this was a cute enough story, if youre into that over-the-top meet cute, insta-love kind of thing.
you love hamilton.
i have no doubt this book is everything people have dreamt of and more, and i love that.
but i really wish adam silvera had jumped ship before he went down sinking with miss becky albertalli.
3.5 STARS rounded to 4Review to come once the group reading has concluded.So excited to announce that this is our #ScaredSuspenseBookClub pick for the month of November! If you would like to join in our discussions on Instagram, dates will be November 12th and 19th.
I got up super early this morning to download Becky Albertalli and Adam Silvera's new book, What If It's Us, and I have officially devoured it. All it took was reading during lunch, at every red light on the way home from work, at the chiropractor, and then after dinner this evening. One book written by two of my favorite YA authors equals ALL. THE. FEELS."I believe in love at first sight. Fate, the universe, all of it. But not how you're thinking. I don't mean it in the our souls were split an
I think the universe nudges them into your path."Arthur is in New York for the summer before his senior year of high school, working as an intern at a branch of his mother's law firm.
But eventually they are reunited, and tentatively embark on a roller coaster of a relationship, even knowing that Arthur will be returning home to Georgia at the end of the summer.Are two people destined to be together?
And it's a book about trying to make a relationship work in one crazy world.Albertalli and Silvera have written some of my favorite YA books over the last several years, so I had so much anticipation for this book.
Books like this one are part of the reason why I started getting back into reading this year.I think I speak for most of us when I say that this is a book that has been long-awaited; a gay YA novel told in that charming, traditional rom-com feel, set in New York City to boot.
Arthur and Ben's romance was quite believable, I would say, so it didn't feel like insta-love to me.
I would've liked if there was more time for them to truly connect, but I guess the fast pace was due to Arthur only staying in New York for the summer, so it's not like there's no reason for it.I have mixed feelings about the ending, though.
What If It's Us ★ Most Anticipated 2018 Expected publication: October 2nd 2018  UPDATE: WHEN BECKY ALBERTALLI ACKNOWLEDGES YOUR FAN EDIT  I am so certain this book is going to save 2018.  I am so happy, I can't even think straight... (see what I did just then? see it?) taste. the. rainbow. bitch
Are they aware this is going to break GR when it comes out
I read 2 books by Adam and 1 book by Becky and enjoyed all of them but I had notes here and there, this was like the ultimate collab, they just complete each other <3.🌟 To be honest, few pages into this and we have an insta-love scene that irked me, and then the characters explain themselves and I am convinced!
I have to admit, this was pretty cute.(A little too long though ; and way to many Harry Potter references)
4 stars! Becky Albertalli + Adam Silvera = a must read for me! What If It’s Us was a highly anticipated book for me and it didn’t disappoint. It had so much of Albertalli’s sweetness and fun, and the feels (though tamed down) you know and love from Silvera. It’s a heartwarming and beautifully written read. Ben and Arthur have the most adorable meet-cute ever. A post office in NYC. A hot dog tie. A box of stuff to be mailed to an ex. They really hit it off, but what are the chances of them ever m
Ben and Arthur have the most adorable meet-cute ever.
Well, if the universe has anything to say about it….Ben and Arthur together melted my heart.
I freaking loved Ben. He was the best part of this book for me.
I feel like this is a book you can read in 10 years and be like YES.
The only thing I didn’t truly love about this story was the ending.
If you’re looking for a beautiful coming of age YA romance about two boys finding love and finding themselves this is the perfect book for you.
I just think you’re meant to meet some people.
*An ARC was provided by Edelweiss and the publisher in exchange for an honest review* "I pictured New York like West Side Story plus In the Heights plus Avenue Q- but really, it's just construction and traffic and iPhones and humidity." My expectations were higher than most of New York’s skyline but somehow, Adam Silvera and Becky Albertalli still managed to wow me.This was precious, deliciously awkward, and refreshingly realistic. I absolutely loved this with every fiber of my being. I mean, th
Arthur and Ben had the candy cane sweetness of a TV couple, but the struggles and awkward fumbles of a real one.
I loved the close knit relationships between Ben and Mr. and Mrs. Alejo, the relationships between Arthur and his parents, and the ways those relationships grew and shifted throughout the book.
I'm not going to go into details because I want everyone who reads this to get to experience the amazingness of Ben's best friend Dylan completely blind.

I love the two main characters: Arthur and Ben. I like Ben’s friend Dylan, he’s extra hilarious!
I love how sweet and innocent Arthur is especially how excited he gets for his first date, first kiss, first boyfriend, first everything.This book is told in the first person point of view following Arthur Seuss, 16, who has never been kissed and who believes in love at first sight.
As he search up Arthur on Instagram, he believes the universe just doesn’t want him to be happy because the search is impossible with just a first name.What If It’s Us is becoming my all time favorite read!
I love Ben’s fight with Dylan about best friends.
The story was a bit slow going, but like I said on Twitter by the end I was basically trash for it and kept reading deep into the late hours of the night. SO. FRICKEN. CUTE. I have nothing else to say. Read this wonderful book, please and thank you.
"I’m just going to live in the moment.
That’s the only way to see where we end up."  *I received this arc from the publisher in exchange for an honest opinion* What If It’s Us  is a meet cute romance set in New York City about two boys who meet at a post office while one of them is trying to mail a box full of his ex-boyfriend’s gifts back to him.
From then on, Ben and Arthur go through a series of comings and goings to try to make things happen between them.
What if they’re a meant to be?
From then on, Ben and Arthur go through a series of comings and goings to try to make things happen between them.
I guess I didn’t like some of the characters behaviors, and things were going so wrong for them that I ended up thinking 
Concerning the characters, I have A LOT more in common with Ben than with Arthur, so it’s no suprise I liked him a lot better.
I feel like both characters grew by the ending, though, and I certainly appreciate that.While reading this book, I was pretty convinced that Ben was written by Adam, and Arthur was written by Becky.
