https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40411206-talking-as-fast-as-i-can
Lauren Graham narrating the audiobook was every bit of the awesomeness that I'd hoped for and expected.
In this non-fiction book, she talks a little about her upbringing, college years, first auditions, first jobs in the mundane world and the show business as well as her experience filming Gilmore Girls and Parenthood.She also mentions interviewers harassing her about her love life when she didn’t have one, tricks to losing weight (there aren’t any!) and writing a novel and teases us with future plans.
It’s lovely to see how much Lauren Graham identifies with Lorelai Gilmore, as if they are a single person, not two distinct entities.
In true Rory Gilmore style, I am going to review this book as a pros and cons list.
I liked the addition of the phone conversation with her father in “Fast Forward” - something I had never come across before in any of the books I have read.
• Old Lady Jackson, period – nothing else to add here, I need more of her!•  Gilmore Girls : I loved the way “What It Was Like, Part One” was set out.
For those of you who haven’t read it, she expresses her opinion about each season in terms of the setting, fashion/hair and what she loved.
She fills most of the book with obligatory chapters on how aging in Hollywood sucks and too many people just want to know her fitness regimen and—in what seems to be becoming a requirement for celebrity memoirs—how her editor kept hounding her to get her draft in on time and how she didn’t really have time to do that.
There was a little bit more about her time on Parenthood and how the relatively light schedule allowed her to write her book, but I was really disappointed that she doesn’t go into more depth on her relationship with Peter Krause.
I love Lauren Graham!
I loved her in Gilmore Girls most of all!
But Gilmore Girls takes the cake, the old and the new!
I loved hearing stories about when Lauren was a child like living on the houseboat.
I would loved to have seen that in real life!
It was a little confusing at times but I guess that's why it's called a book of essays!
I was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, which his awesome right there, but three weeks later, before I even had time to work on my tan, we moved to Japan.
I also love the book cover!
So Lauren Graham basically IS Lorelai Gilmore :)It was so much fun to read her short diary-type entries of the experience of filming the revival and to hear other bits of Gilmore Girls history. I wasn't as into some of the other parts of the book, but her writing was consistently upbeat and hilarious! It really sounded like Lorelai was just telling you about her day in a casual yet super caffeinated conversation.
a gift from Vio: Thank You Vio!!!I did like the Gilmore Girls...but admit, I didn’t watch the reunion series.
I actually liked the show “Parenthood”- much better than “The Gilmore Show”, where Lauren Graham was part of the ensemble cast.
Lauren Graham speaks ‘consistently’ soooo fast during the entire audiobook- it becomes draining.
Lauren was born in Hawaii and spent a great amount of time living on a houseboat with her father....
Unless a person is a die-hard Lauren Graham fan — and she can do no wrong in your eyes - then I wouldn’t go out of my way to read or listen to this book.
I'm not her biggest fan ever, and I haven't even seen Parenthood, so I just liked hearing about her backstory and her experiences in Hollywood.
Lauren is so successful in many hemispheres of her life, but some of the essays she wrote were just plain vapid, specifically her chapters about LA diets and dating.
I just think that given the scope of her career, there were more important things to focus on than poking fun at diets and dating life, which we're already inundated with in the media.
If you liked Gilmore Girls or Parenthood, consider picking this up on audiobook like I did.
Awwwwww this was so sweet. There were some parts where I found myself skim reading or skipping altogether (the fashion chapter coz BORING) but I really, really enjoyed this and I love Lauren's voice and sense of humour!
**Before reading the book:This is being released on my birthday!
This is already the best birthday ever :D**Upon finishing the book:This gets 5 stars.
Yes I am being biased because I love Lauren Graham and Gilmore Girls (which is more than just a show to me, it's a religion, a way of life -- I know that sounds crazy but I've been too obsessed for too long, its unhealthy...just ignore me).
It was a fun, quick read, made even more fun by Lauren's narration.
Lauren basically is real-life Lorelai Gilmore.
Plenty of insights from her time during the Gilmore Girls days, I probably could have read a whole book completely devoted to dissections and discussions of the show but there was also other parts of Lauren's life that I had no idea about so I was pleasantly surprised with those inclusions, this was a quick read and honestly I wished there was more, only because I can't get enough of this fast talking, smart and all round talented actress, writer and just general awesome human being.
*sniff, sniff, wail*Recently I made what may have been a questionable parenting decision and starting watching Gilmore Girls on Netflix with my daughter.
I love Lauren Graham in both Gilmore Girls and Parenthood but unfortunately, I found this audio just okay.
There wasn't a lot about Gilmore Girls beyond that it was long hours and everyone from actors to writers and producers were great.
I really think Lauren Graham is a standout in Hollywood.
I wish she would be my best friend but I still didn't love this book.
I suspect this was a well-timed marketing ploy to coincide with the Netflix reboot.
This was so good.
It kept me laughing out loud and I wanted hear more of her stories.
I like her voice as a writer.
She had a bit in there about Old Lady Jackson that was funny and she needs to turn this into a whole book.
Wonderful character.
She takes us behind the scenes of Gilmore Girls and Parenthood to share her experiences.
We also have stories of how she made it in the business of Show.
I hope they bring the show back again.I felt like I was sitting down with an old friend.
I enjoyed this book.
This was okay. There were a lot of filler stories and she didn't start talking about Gilmore Girls until chapter 15.I listened to the audiobook and Lauren sang way too much. Kinda irritated me. There were a few cool behind the scenes info about her tv shows but nothing you can't find from interviews.
I of course *loved* Gilmore Girls, but unfortunately did not watch the 4 episode reboot on Netflix because I did not subscribe to that service at the time.
There's nothing really 'behind the scenes' to it, which is rather a large letdown considering the show lasted seven seasons.Some things I did enjoy about the book:- Her repeating the 'how to write' knowledge passed down to her from a friend '(kitchen timer writing') - The fact that she skipped Kindergarten due to reading at an early age and how that impacted her during her school years (my son did this, he is currently in second grade so I found this very insightful)- The call to her dad: on the audiobook it's his voice on there and they are talking as if she recorded their actual phone conversation.- Her recollections of her time spent after highschool trying to 'make it', plus the odd jobs she did in the meantime.- Her 'old lady' advice about putting down cellphones etc.
Graham writes throughout about the time crunch she was under, and it seems like the book was rushed out to coincide with the release of the new Gilmore Girls movies rather than because it was ready or necessary.
There are long sections of filler in the book, like where Graham adopts the voice of an elderly biddy for no particular reason.
I've read Graham's novel, and so I know that she is a good writer, but this seemed like a rush job to make some money.
If I had to choose one show that was my favorite show ever, one I can quote certain episodes word for word, and one with characters I truly connect with, that show would be GILMORE GIRLS. This book has been on my radar for a while because not only do I love that show, I love Lauren Graham. This book had a lot of fun GG information, but also a lot of fun stories from Lauren's life. I love her even more after reading it! It was a quick listen (took about 4 hours) and highly entertaining!
Rory loved books; I loved books and Lorelai's addiction to coffee rivaled my own.
I think, I will always look back on the show fondly.I was curious if Lauren Graham was anything like her character Lorelai.
Her story felt honest.
She felt like someone I could hang out with over coffee.
Like myself, Lauren is a private person and reveals very little about her life, but what she does is wonderful.
Her stories about dating and her husband were priceless.Graham highlights how she got her start, goes through the seasons of Gilmore Girls, talks about the final season and the reunion.
I love Gilmore Girls and I love Lauren Graham! Some chapters from this book were a little boring and I just skimmed them but especially the chapters about filming Gilmore Girls and about how she became an actress were super interesting and so much fun to read :)
Written in response to the release of A Year in the Life on Netflix, Talking as Fast as I Can is a lively actor’s memoir.
Lauren Graham moves at a fast pace as she discusses a wide range of topics, from her unconventional upbringing to her writing career.
The sections about her experience as an actor on Gilmore Girls and Parenthood aren’t as extensive as expected; in the case of the former show, she only offers notes on rewatching the series after having finished the revival, a move that feels superficial.
The memoir feels disjointed and hastily written, but Graham’s narration on audio is engaging and entertaining.
This was a fun look into some of what went into making Gilmore Girl, both the original series and reboot.
It has some insight into Lauren Graham’s life pre-show business, but as a whole the largest chunks of it deal with GG.
It doesn’t have as much substance as I was expecting.
And since I love Lauren Graham so much—especially listening to her read the audiobook—I was hoping for a more chronological and in-depth look at her life and how she got to where she is today.
She’s clearly a talented storyteller and a great narrator but I isn’t needed more!
Having been a fan of the Gilmore Girls TV series, this book was such a treat for me.
In case anyone was wondering about the reason I added 3 audio books to my shelf in quick succession..Apparently, when it comes to paying enough attention to these types of books, short memoirs "read and performed by the author" (very important!) are the key.
I loved the fact that it was Lauren Graham herself that was narrating the book, giving everything an even funnier twist.But then I am a huge Gilmore Girls fan, having watched and RE-watched the series at least 10 times over.
While we get that to some extent in the final chapter that includes diary entries from her time on the revival, the chapter about the original Gilmore Girls run was highly disappointing.
Given the subtitle of the book and the timing of when it was released, the Gilmore Girls chapters are, I'm sure, the most highly anticipated ones by the fans.
The tone works really well when she's talking about her superficial observations about Hollywood, weight loss, her many years of singledom, etc., but can border on annoying when it seems like we're about to dig in with a specific story about Parenthood or her friends or Gilmore Girls.
Honestly Lauren Graham was born for this role, I couldn't imagine any other actress, and I doubt anyone else could, playing Lorelai Gilmore.
This entire book was fast, loud, hilarious, fun and you can just feel how incredibly down to earth Lauren is in real life and in role.
One thing I need to say is that if you have NOT yet watched A Year in the Life on Netflix you cannot read the last 25% of this book since there are spoilers, so before reading I highly recommend watching that first because honestly the last 25% was my favorite.
Maybe it's the voice of Lorelei Gilmore I'm hearing, but hey since she created the character, then I think it's at least a resemblance of Lauren in real life.
Oh well, I think I'm in the company of many.Here's something I didn't know before opening the pages of Talking as Fast as I Can: Lauren is in a long-time relationship with Peter Krause (co-star in Parenthood).
From what I could tell, it was stage acting that drew her initial desire, and the TV screen just came with time, the right call, and a lot of long days in between.
Those were the parts I learned about Lauren herself.
I know, Gilmore Girls is a rapid-talking idealized landscape, but one I think I prefer to escape to without the grounding in reality.So I was uncertain as to whether I would want to listen to this memoir, but having just watched the four "Year in the Life" episodes of the Gilmore Girls reboot, the time seemed right.
And definitely don't read or listen to it until after watching all seven eight seasons of Gilmore Girls, because there will definitely be spoilers.
Being a fan of Gilmore Girls, it was amazing to get a backstage view on what it was like doing that show, but it was equally as enthralling to read about Lauren’s childhood, young adulthood and about her journey to become an actress.
The last bonus chapter in this edition I read added something special, and the very last page almost teared me up - Lauren wraps everything up beautifully and satisfies the heart of every Gilmore Girls fan.
I was a fan of this book and am very inclined to now pick up one of Lauren’s novels; just to see if she writes fiction as well as she writes non-fiction :)
Enjoyable, quick read. I love Lauren Graham and Gilmore Girls! Not a long, personal story but does share some background on her early life and career. I could relate to pajama streaking and TP-ing houses. LOL. She also shares photographs, behind-the-scenes, and diary experts all encompassed in her fast talking narration like Lorelai Gilmore. Highly recommend the audio read by Lauren herself!
I am a fan of the show "Gilmore Girls," and was happy to hear she had published a journal she wrote while filming the revival episodes for Netflix.This collection of essays is amusing and heartfelt, just as I expect Lauren is in real life.
Another fun essay was about a character she created called Old Lady Jackson, which she uses when she wants to give advice to younger folks without seeming like a grouch.This collection was a bit rambling and random in parts, but that's OK, I enjoyed Lauren sharing her stories with me.

