https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77462.Heechee_Rendezvous
Pues 5 estrellas bien merecidas. En esta tercera parte, Pohl retoma los puntos fuertes de Pórtico como son el centrarse más en su protagonista, Robin, junto con sus inseparables programas informáticos Albert y Sigfrid. Sólo con las conversaciones que mantienen entre ellos podría estar entretenido durante 3 libros más.También nos da más información sobre misterios que se plantearon en Pórtico y aparecen personajes olvidados desde hacía tiempo.Y si faltaba algo, con ese final Robin Broadhead se convierte en uno de mis personajes favoritos. Y hasta aquí puedo leer.
Paper is going to survive long after our technologies are as obsolete as floppy discs.Also explored is the transfer of human consciousness to machines, as Robinette gets downloaded and struggles to learn how to interpret the world from that angle and how to express himself again.
And I want to see what Pohl thinks will happen to such downloaded people—do they retain their humanity?This is very much a transition book, moving from the demystifying of HeeChee technology to actual contact.
La forma de escribir de Pohl es sublime te mantiene ahí disfrutando de como va de a poco contando ese secreto que guardo de tal forma durante casi tres libros y los detalles que nos brinda hace que valiera la pena por completo.Pierde la estrella conmigo por lo tedioso que me parecieron unos capítulos de nuestro protagonista rumbo al final.
Finally, the Heechee are discovered.
More correctly, the Heechee are forced to reveal themselves to humanity because humanity in its ignorance misuses the Heechee spaceships, risking discovery by the Assassins, a dreadful alien race aiming to modify the elementary rules of the universe to better fit their preferences.
Their success would be the end of any race living accordingly to what we understand as life.
The return to Gateway is also a return to the universal scale of the initial novel.
Wan single-handedly forces the Heechee to intervene, Broadhead single-handedly drives the contact with the Heechee.
Pedantic, annoying, and bothersome, all in one book.The author lost touch with a reliable perspective from which to tell his story. This volume was filled with shifts in point of view, sidebars from characters observing the story being told, and direct address of the reader by the narrator.Beyond the stylistic complaints, the characters in the story didn't develop meaningfully (except as trite plot devices), and the actions weren't compelling. All-around pretty much a waste of time.
...Given the high standard Pohl sets in the first novel of this series, Heechee Rendezvous is a bit of a disappointment.
This is something I can deal with but Pohl somehow manages to continually make him get on the reader's nerves.
Quite an achievement, but when I start feeling it is a blessing the book is only 273 pages long, he may have overdone it just a bit.
Still, if you enjoy the riddle the Heechee pose, it is very readable.
Just don't expect Pohl to rise to the level he attained in the 1970s.
Terminada la saga de los Heechee. Tengo en la recámara el cuarto libro de éste universo, pero tengo entendido que el hilo argumental de Broadhead termina aquí. De forma global, me ha gustado como libro y como final. En mi opinión, los libros van mejorando; el primero está bien como introducción al universo Heechee pero en cuanto a calidad literaria e historia los siguientes son mucho mejores.Altamente recomendable.
غم «رابینت برودهد» آتشم زد.-----------------------------------درباره این کتاب در ویکیپدیای فارسی:http://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/آمدگاه_هیچی
غم «رابینت برودهد» آتشم زد.-----------------------------------درباره این کتاب در ویکی‌پدیای فارسی:http://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/آمدگاه_هیچی
In reality 3/5 stars. I didn't think this one as good as the previous books in the series.
Y hasta mas o menos el 70% del avance del libro, asi me parecio que iba a ser y estaba pensando en darle unas 4 estrellas por el cariño que le tenia a la saga.
De todas maneras la historia de la saga proseguia de una forma bastante interesante y el libro era de lo mas entretenido.
(hide spoiler)] Este libro a parte de entretenerme por la historia en si, me ha dejado mucho en que pensar y me ha abierto un poco mas la cabeza, provocandome de manera inevitable, muchas ganas de arrancar con el siguiente volumen de la saga.
Albert Einstein, el programa de Robinette también es parte fundamental de la trama.En definitiva, esta 3ª parte, El encuentro, aunque no llega al nivel de la original Pórtico, entronca más con los temas tratados en ésta, tras el interludio de Tras el incierto horizonte.
Por otra parte, surgen al final nuevos e interesantes interrogantes y nuevos status, fruto de la evolución de los personajes y las tramas, que animan a al lector a saber lo que ocurrirá proximamente.
Así, el punto de partida de la 4ª parte, Los anales de los Heeche, se intuye más que interesante...
- The narrative view point changed quite often especially at the start of the book and at times I was confused about who was speaking and to whom!
It was obviously a pretty shit time to be a woman in the not too distant future this book was set in.
It was also surprisingly enough a shit time to be a female of any race human, Hee Chee or otherwise as well!
Which thinking back to how the female characters in the previous two books were constructed shouldn't have come as such a surprise.
second read - 10 November 2014 - *** This third book in the sequence is a real kitchen sink of a science fiction story.
More kinds of alien artifacts are found, and a lot of human adaptation of previously found artifacts is developed.
It is so much, that the speculative concepts begin to just pile up on each other.And then there is the circus-like drama of the characters.
Somehow, in the hands of Pohl this seems like just one more engineering problem, and the characters simply cope with it somehow.So, the book is entertaining, but not more than that.
An excellent book and an excellent continuation in the series!
The only thing it's lacking (that the other books, especially the first one, had plenty of) is mystery.
It does add some depth and some very interesting perspective to the story throughout, and I still found the story quite exciting, just not so mysterious.Nonetheless, for anyone who appreciates science fiction, full of fabulous (but potentially accurate) ideas, this book is excellent.
And with the way it's written, the reader doesn't even need to have read the first two books before this one.
It leaves me looking forward to reading the last book in the series very soon!
Heechee Rendezvous is book 3 of the Heechee Saga but can also be read in isolation.
The plot and people are more or less the same as before but with a new angle.
This time Robin flies reasonably safely around the galaxy pondering the really big issues.Heechee Rendezvous starts of chaotically.
The first half of the book is pointless drivel and can easily be skipped.
The last half is a joy to read for anyone liking that genre.The average of 1 star for the first half and 5 stars for the 2nd half means Heechee Rendezvous mathematically deserves a 3 star rating.
I know there are two more in this series, but I'm not going to read them.
This book finished the story and I worry that anything else would just get boring.
Everyone is living happily ever after, humans made contact with aliens and a huge cataclysmic war didn't break out and some other kind of berserker alien might come out of hiding in the future, but we'll be able to deal with them when the time comes.The end.
Exactly the sort of thing I want a picture of.Oh fuck, I'll probably end up reading at least the next one in the series.
A disappointing end to the series.
Deshilachado relato zombie hecho sin amor ni respeto.
Phoned-in, rehashed ideas from the previous books. No depth, no soul. Barely finished it.
Поредната завладяваща история .... Невероятна ! Нямам търпение да започна 4тата част !
The HeeChee lose the aura of mystery & the tension of their enigmatic origins and purposes.
Trying to imagine their appearance is a sort of anti climax: desiccated skin over skeletal frames smelling like ammonia(?).
This didn’t need to fit into the first book’s mold but could’ve benefited from the jackpot thrill & space-cowboy adventures [of “Gateway”].
1.5 stars because it got boring but I was invested enough into Pohl’s writing, the story of the HeeChee, and the thread of Robin’s narrative to enjoy-appreciate.
I think “Gateway” & “Beyond Blue—“ are good enough.
This book follows a few storylines, the main one being Robin Broadhead's continued exploits with his wife.
Finally another character utilizes some alien technology to possibly discover the truth about what happened to the Heechee.More than the previous books in the series, Pohl shifts perspectives frequently here and not for the better.
Wan is a terrible character from the last book and any time he talks I was eager for him to leave.
The reason for the Heechee disappearance and setup for the next book was not entirely satisfying as this book ends before addressing it in a meaningful way, but what we did get was enough to keep my interested to continue reading the series.
After reading what is an interesting retelling of everyday moments in that future of humanity when they should meet the Heechee, I felt "that's it?".
It's interesting and it reads fast but after every chapter, I would get this feeling of what's the point of this?
More scientific information presented, more interesting theories, more interesting personal dilemmas but nothing that will move the story forward.
And the story never moves forward.
Even in the end, the last dozens of pages do nothing to resolve the conflict or at least create any kind of conflict.Still, even though it's not a space saga, but more of a personal saga, I want to know what will happen with Robinette Broadhead, the next book being the final of the series for me.
Yep, rendezvous with the Heechee confirmed.With a little more focus on characters from book #1 than in previous 'episode', and with a very cool explanation of what the Heechee were actually doing and where they actually were, this is clearly one step up.Funny though that in some ways this book is like Philip Jose Farmer's "The Magic Labyrinth".
Although the book feels like it was meant to be the last in the series, and before the final quarter it seems to able to explain "it all", the author changes his mind and does not offer a complete resolution, and leaves room for a sequel.
A super mysterious highly advanced race of aliens who disappeared eons ago into a black hole because they discovered something that frightened shit out of them.
In the previous two installments, humanity has discovered some of the Heechee relics and begun to use them, incorrectly of course, and now that which chased the Heechee into black holes might be taking note.In this book, tycoon Robinette Broadhead takes on another adventure and ends up with a little more than he bargains for.I like the idea behind the writing, but the writing is a hard, hard grind.
Realmente digna tercera parte de la saga Pórtico, en la que Pohl sabe no solo narrar de forma efectiva una historia interesante argumentalmente, sino que sabe dotarla de un estupendo sentido del humor gracias a esos dobles narradores (aunque hacia al final se echa un poco de menos más presencia de Allbert) que dialogan como viejos amigos contándote la historia.
Asimismo, gracias a la focalización en el siempre genial (quizá aquí más que en la entrega anterior) personaje de Robin, Pohl consigue incluir sus vastos conocimientos científicos de forma amena y comprensible para el resto de los mortales.
Realmente, toda una sorpresa, ya que a menudo las sagas van de capa caída, mientras que esta parece todo lo contrario.
A ver cómo será el desenlace...
Terminada esta tercera parte y que maravilla de saga, continuamente "in crescendo" tanto la trama, como la tecnología, los personajes ( y nuevos añadidos) y con el singular toque de humor que tiene Frederik de contar el relato.Personalmente, me ha parecido el mejor de todos y con un final que te deja a las puertas de una soberbia trama.
Lo que mas me ha gustado es la continua evolución ( en mayor escala que el segundo libro) tanto de las tecnologías como de los misteriosos Heechee, me parece soberbia y majestuosa la forma de evolucionar la saga.
La tercera entrega de la saga ofrece más de lo mismo; o sea, más de lo mismo de "Tras el incierto horizonte", no del original, "Pórtico", qué más quisiéramos.
Continúan las andanzas de Robin Broadhead, su querida esposa S.Ya, la inteligencia artificial Albert Einstein y un Wan ya crecidito pero igual de insoportable que en el libro anterior, aderezadas con personajes nuevos y alguno viejo recuperado para la causa.
Con todo, el resultado es igual de insípido y carente de sugerencia, nada que ver con el principio de una historia que siempre debió ser autoconclusiva, pero bueno, supongo que al bueno de Frederik le pondrían sus editores un camión de dinero delante de su casa.

This was a very "meh" book, and It took me a while to finish since I kept getting bored.
The book does not introduce any new characters, other than some "modifications" to existing characters.
The story pace is slow and circles around the drain for too long.Things get more interesting around the 85% mark, but then it's just too late to save the story.
It's not a completely bad read, but there are better books to read out there.
I'm now wondering if I should even give the rest of the series a chance.
