https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574035.Out_of_the_Storm
Okay, that's a purely emotional rating. There are too many gaps in the sequence of events, too many happenstances, but the story was narrated so well that I forgot those things. Very much an escape story for me. I ran off and ordered a couple more of hers online!
At first, I really liked this book, but serval things ended up sinking it for me. 1. The girl refers to the main guy at a "boy" and says she's "caring for him like her own child" and than they go on to have a romantic relationship. It felt weird. 2. The ending was SO FAST. I have never read a Hill book with such a fast ending. Overall, the only thing that saves this from being a two star was the fact that I really did like the main characters.

This book was an antique that my mom has had forever, copyright 1929. It was so sappy that it bordered ridiculous. I love old books, however, the way they feel and the way they smell ... and I found it so refreshing that the characters prayed and asked God for help in facing their difficulties. Would love to see more of that in modern literature.
Therefore, for those reasons, I still believed in their love for one another.Outside of the relationship, my issues mostly have to do with the way in which the book was written, which is very different from modern romances.
In this way and a few others, the story could sometimes devolve into a bit of melodrama, which might not be everyone’s cup of tea.Overall, though, Out of the Storm was an interesting book to read if for no other reason than to get a taste of how authors wrote in the past, as well as for that birds-eye view of what life was like back then, rather than the sanitized version that’s often infused with our own modern sensibilities.
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
Another successful tellingAnother successful telling of some of the ways God works to bring his children, all of us that will listen, to his wonderful salvation. We often run ahead and get in trouble which can delay his plans for us.
Storms of LifeAnother wonderful book by Grace Livingston Hill. Through rough seas of life and relationships a young couple find the Lord and love.
I grew up reading many of Hill's books because my mom had a bunch of them.
They tend to be sweet stories of overcoming hardship and finding true love, and every once in a while, that's nice to read about.
Okay, so, Christian Romance hasn't come far since the early 1900's as shown by this early book.
Sweet, clean and full of adverbs, this story is nice but simple.
There were holes that show that Ms. Hill didn't have the resources and or desire to research.
This is so ridiculous. I love it, but it is INSANE. Shipwrecks and snuff films and dialect. Oh my.And lots of weeping, and a(n unintentionally) hilarious scene in a theater where the responsible-eyed hero starts heavy breathing and freaks out his neighbor.You need this in your life, or at least your Kindle. GLH does the sweetest cozy home scenes, the best Got-Jesus-evangelizing, and then throws some batsh*t craycray in because she can. This ish cray. I love it.
This book may be many years old, but it is one of the best romances I have read. It is a romance that focusses on how the main characters fall for each other and the misunderstandings that happen. It is unlike the modern romances, where it seems like the author is seeing how fast the characters will fall in bed with each other. It is a beautiful, innocent romance.
I read this book for the first time as a young girl in about 1960 and loved it. It is a sentimental favorite for me. I would call it vintage Christian fiction. It is a sweet story but was published in 1929 and the culture was very different then. I enjoyed rereading it!!
Very melodramatic.
From list of books read in 1963 diary complete with star ratings. This would have been one of my mother's books.
Not one of my favorite GLH's.
romantic, dramatic
