https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64860.E_is_for_Evidence
Book Review  E is for Evidence, written in 1988, is the fifth book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series by the hilarious Sue Grafton. It's just before Christmas, and all through the house, not a creature is stirring, except for one of Kinsey's two ex-husbands: Daniel Wade. And if that's not enough, she takes on a small investigation involving arson, only to find a mysterious $5K deposit into her bank account that she didn't put there. Something smells a little too much like gas... and yup,
E is for Evidence, written in 1988, is the fifth book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series by the hilarious Sue Grafton.
The series is dependable, providing laughs, a little drama and suspense, a cozy warm feeling and usually something new and exciting.
This is a fine example of a typical novel in the series, and you really either like these types of books or you don't.
What's good about this one is you learn more about the Kinsey from the past thru her relationship with her ex, Daniel.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
Nothing much happened that does not usually happen in a Kinsey Millhone book.
Maybe she does not usually get blown up, not just once but twice.
But the rest is the usual Kinsey goodness, lots of falling out with various people, lots of sleuthing ( which is why she falls out with people) and lots of calling in favours from various people including police officers.
I did not guess him in advance but then I often don't.
Kinsey did not guess until the end either!Four stars for a very light and very entertaining read.
After discovering $5000 had been deposited anonymously into her account, then documents going missing with false, incriminating papers in their place, she knew she needed to find answers quickly.As her investigation took her into the wealthy but messed up Wood family, owners of the business where the factory fire took place, Kinsey also was approached by her ex-husband.
She knew she was close, but would she find the murderer before it was too late?E is for Evidence is my second Kinsey Millhone by author Sue Grafton, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The reader also starts to see that the relationship between Kinsey and California Fidelity is reaching a breaking point – not sure where this will lead in future books.I feel I need to spend some time discussing Kinsey’s second ex-husband Daniel.
I guess with how Sue Grafton wrote and described the character I just felt I couldn’t understand how Kinsey would ever waste her time with him much less marry him.
It gives us some background on Kinsey which is good considering how little we have gotten in the previous books.
Kinsey gets an unexpected $5,000 deposited in her account which leads to her bring fingered as taking kick backs at the insurance company she rents space from as well as does work for at times.
Tracking down who is setting her up leads Kinsey involved in a family at each other's throats and her seeing one of her ex husband's.
It's a winding road to get to how Kinsey was set up and how it has to do with the insurance company she works at.
I would have laid down somewhere and been done.This is always one of my favorite reads cause the events in this book lead Kinsey to getting a new home.
I love Kinsey!
She is so set in her ways, and has a down to earth personality.
She is not a flamboyant person, and really does not like to have notice put on her.
This one had her facing fraud charges for something she has not clue about what is going on.
It happens to deal with a family she used to know when she was a teenager.
She really gets into some scrapes in this book, and I had no idea what would eventually happen, although I had some inkling part way through.
This one was perfect! I felt sorry for Kinsey in this one and the plot was great. You always hit the ground running with this series of Grafton’s. I am really beginning to like Kinsey. She loves her job and is really good at it. Great read!
A couple of days before Christmas, Kinsey is asked to investigate a fire for the insurance company she sometimes works for.
Afraid she might find herself accused of insurance fraud, she starts investigating the situation.
But is she the target or an innocent bystander?I truly enjoyed this book since it starts out with a great mystery that doesn’t involved a murder.
What few supporting characters there are in the series are mostly missing thanks to the Christmas time frame, but I found it a great way to develop Kinsey more, and the new characters were fabulous, doing their job as suspects perfectly.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
Every few months, I've been checking out a Sue Grafton alphabet title.
"E" now makes for eleven, according to my Goodreads account, that I've read.
This week I saw on Goodreads that Ms.Grafton has V IS FOR...coming out (does anybody know what the "V" stands for?
Vengeance?
Vendetta?).
"E" is a compact, peppy, and scrappy entry in the series.
In short, it rocked.
Kinsey investigates an insurance fraud and gets sucked into a dysfunctional rich family (as the rich families are often depicted in private eye books).
Her second husband Daniel shows up again.
Better watch out, Kinsey.
I read this book in about two hours. I don't think I can quite call it "amazing," as I reserve that rating for books that are a bit less ordinary, and this is, at the end of the day, a pretty ordinary mystery.But it was a pacey, peppy read with a convoluted plot that sucked me right in and kept me going until the end. The solution relied on a technological world that no longer exists, but it was convincing for its time and entertaining as all get out. My favorite of this series so far!
Kinsey Millhone feels the same way I do about medical "care":Staying here was out of the question.
When it comes to anything outside of an ordinary work day outfit of jeans and a T-shirt if it's hot and a sweater if it's cold, Kinsey Millhone is just as bad at figuring out what to wear as I am:I tiptoed to the loo and locked myself in, staring at my reflection in the mirror with despair.
I'd gone to the Edgewater Hotel in my all-purpose dress to eat lunch with Ashley, who'd worn an outfit suitable for bagging game.
Compared to my last book, which was very well enjoyed and earned the same number of stars, I read it in half the time.
To begin with there is no murder, not for about half the book, which surprised me as A through D have involved Kinsey investigating a missing person who turns out to be murdered or just a murdered person who needs to be investigated.
I just wish I had F is for whatever ready to go, not that I don't have plenty of other books with me, I just feel like reading more Kinsey.
This is my second of Sue Grafton's alphabet series- also read A. I don't usually read popular mysteries. Recurring POV heroine, PI Kinsey Millhone is a down to earth, likable character. This is a fun, easy read with enough suspense to keep turning pages. Just the break I needed after binge reading Wuthering Heights, Jane Eyre, and Sense and Sensibilities in the last couple weeks. Talk about opposite ends of the literary spectrum :)
I don't know if it's just me but I feel like there was more swearing in this book than the others! A lot! I was surprised by the amount. This one was also a lot more graphic, violence-wise. Describing a dead body, it was gruesome! But overall, I liked this story. Pretty dark, though. We finally get to meet someone from Kinsey's past whom we've barely heard about. And the subtle foreshadowing about him, spot on, Kinsey! This was a mystery with Kinsey in the middle!
By now, Kinsey is quite well known amongst mystery readers, most of whom agree she paved the way for many more heroines in this genre with her wit, grit, and sassy determination.
This installment gives the reader a closer glimpse at Kinsey as a person, clues us in on some information about Kinsey’s past, including one of her ex-husbands.
I enjoyed the book, and the personal insights into Kinsey’s character, and the mystery was solid enough.
Kinsey is a great character, which is why I am giving this series top priority in 2016.
Much like J.D. Robb’s In Death books, I’ve come to see this series as a comfort read for me. Whenever I’m reading something rubbish or need a refresher, I always turn to Sue Grafton to get me out of my funk.E IS FOR EVIDENCE has a little bit of a Christmas theme to it so it was nice to read around this time. I especially liked this one because it’s a little bit different to the other cases that Kinsey has had in the past. This one isn’t as fast-paced but it’s intriguing on a different level bec
This one isn’t as fast-paced but it’s intriguing on a different level because it looks like something is trying to pull a fast one on Kinsey.It’s not often someone tries to get the best of her so I found this book to be different from all the others.
This book is also slightly slower in pace because it is the holidays and people are more concerned about taking part in festivities rather than crime, but everyone knows that crime doesn’t wait on no one.Once again, I listened to this one on audiobook and I really like this narrator.
Also she's always come over so independent, but even when you like being alone, sometimes it becomes suffocating, sometimes you have to socialise and again that's something I could relate to.Towards the end the story did get a little bit silly - rich family where the son and daughter got a bit too friendly, daughter married a man who didn't really exist and had already killed his foster mother.
When he found out about his wifes past he went crazy again - 2 bombs later and Kinsey's got now-where to live.A lot packed into a very short book.
"E: is for Evidence left me feeling "C" is for curious why others so like this series and "I" as in indifferent as to whether Kinsey Millhone ever solves the mystery and clears her name.
Millhone breaks and enters and she trades information with people who would (and should) lose their jobs for violating confidentiality.
Barely squeaking by as a 3 star for me.Secret identities, ex-husbands, incest, bombs, murder all should make for a good mystery but this seemed flat for me. I read C is for Corpse and enjoyed that one much more than this. In this book, I did learn more about Kinsey's background but had a hard time getting into this book.
I like the way she's slowly exploring Kinsey's past.
Another great page turner. We meet Kinsey's second ex husband! Suspenseful until the last chapter.
Kinsey Millhone's has been framed, and must find out who is responsible to clear her name.
After Kinsey takes an arson case, a mysterious $5,000 shows up in her bank account.
She first believes it to be a simple mistake, but learns someone is trying to set her up.The 5th book in the Kinsey Millhone alphabet series.
We learn more about Kinsey's past, and get a little more insight into Kinsey.
She's still smart and independent, and her skills are put to the test in this book when she is drawn into an old friend's family drama.
I listened to an audio version of this book.
A book full of mystery and suspense, kept me glued to the book twisting and turning with excitement and anticipation.I love books where the main character is a tough independent female character who is strong and a problem solver. Kinsey is accused of insurance fraud and to prove her innocence embarks on a fatal journey to clear her name and eventually hold the person responsible for the crime.
P.I. Kinsey Millhone's troubles start with money, but don't end there. Murder, mystery and more have Kinsey in trouble and trying to get out. With the recent sad death of this author, I hope to slowly work my way through the books. Wish I would have done that earlier. :(
Reading the Sue Grafton/Kinsey Millhone series of books, each title representing a letter of the alphabet, is a disappointing roller coaster ride or at best a test of endurance of mediocre writing.
In the following two books, you're left with pure disappointment with a ride of a few the small bumps and knolls, and just when you think your rounding a curve and possibly a good free fall, you come to a dead stop with a abruptly epilogue that leaves you saying, "Huh?" Thus far I've read five of the books (A - E) and each book lacks good character, as well as story development.
Much like J.D. Robb’s In Death books, I’ve come to see this series as a comfort read for me. Whenever I’m reading something rubbish or need a refresher, I always turn to Sue Grafton to get me out of my funk.E IS FOR EVIDENCE has a little bit of a Christmas theme to it so it was nice to read around this time. I especially liked this one because it’s a little bit different to the other cases that Kinsey has had in the past. This one isn’t as fast-paced but it’s intriguing on a different level bec
I especially liked this one because it’s a little bit different to the other cases that Kinsey has had in the past.
This one isn’t as fast-paced but it’s intriguing on a different level because it looks like something is trying to pull a fast one on Kinsey.
It’s not often someone tries to get the best of her so I found this book to be different from all the others.
I don’t think I will go back to ever simply reading the books because they are just so fun to listen to.
The last thing she needed in the morning mail was a letter from her bank recording an erroneous $5,000 deposit in her account.
Kinsey had never believed in Santa Claus and she wasn't about to change her mind now.
It was with something less than Christmas cheer that Kinsey faced off only minutes later with California Fidelity's Mac Voorhies.
"I got a phone call this morning," he said, his frown deepening.
And so she takes on a new client: namely, Kinsey Millhone, thirty-two and twice-divorced, ex-cop and wisecracking loner, a California private investigator with a penchant for lost causes -- one of which, it is to be hoped, is not herself.
As for the big reveal, which I won't spoil here (because after all the book is still a blaze-through-it-in-a-day page-turner that can entertain mildly), it really is offered up as an implausible explanation that just mysteriously remained hidden for no other reason than to have a book plot.
To be clear: I'm not big on being That Reader, the one who prides herself on seeing it coming and getting all high and mighty about mystery writers' inability to fool them.
So far, I've read about half of Sue Grafton's Alphabet Series.
Two characters from her past stir recollections along with powerful feelings.
Ash is an unassuming silver spooner who would have remained a long-term friend had it not been for the economic void separating their families.
As a teenager, Kinsey was intimidated by the wealth and self-assuredness of Ash's family.
It slowed the pace to a point where I shifted my reading speed into fifth gear.The other character that enlightened us about Kinsey's past was her second husband, Daniel.
Throughout the series Kinsey has displayed an awkwardness about allowing herself to experience love.
This was the most fast-paced Kinsey Millhone mystery yet.
She must become her own client and get to the bottom of the conspiracy before she ends up dead.THINGS I LOVEDKinsey's observations of the world around her never fail to make me laugh, like her comment on a lady's yellow sweater, the color of a not so good urine sample.
There were no clues to the actual outcome.ALL IN ALLI love Kinsey Millhone.
I love her sass, lack of class, her wit and her hang-ups.
