https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9565548-grave-mercy
‘‘So,’’ she says, looking back at me. ‘‘You are well equipped for our service.’’   ‘‘Which is?’’   ‘‘We kill people.’’ Everything in this fantasy book approaches perfection.Maybe I have been bewitched, compelled, but, when I think of this novel, the word ‘‘masterpiece’’ is the first one that comes to my mind. Historical and fantasy make delightful mélanges when the two of them are present in a novel. The story may not have been of the same rare quality as Clockwork Angel, for example, but ther
Everything in this fantasy book approaches perfection.Maybe I have been bewitched, compelled, but, when I think of this novel, the word ‘‘masterpiece’’ is the first one that comes to my mind.
Not because they are not at the top of my fantasy professions list; it’s just that I do not choose reads in purpose for the story to contain some.
But if none are included, then I will not interrupt my read or skip the book because of it.
I admit though that the last assassin book I had read did not appeal to me.
hooked me with a great premise: medieval nun assassins who serve Saint Mortain, the god of death.
The novel is set in an alternate realm of Brittany, where the local gods have been subsumed by Christianity and renamed saints.
The old ways live on, however, especially among the daughters of Saint Mortain, who serve as the realm's assassins, killing those who need to be killed.Our lethal heroine, Ismae, escapes a life of poverty and abuse by joining the convent.
Unfortunately for Ismae, one of the people she is sent to spy on (and possibly assassinate) is the first man she feels she might love.The novel is driven by mystery, romance and subtle skulduggery.
2.5This book is like small dashes of awesomeness randomly sprinkled throughout long stretches of boredom. Perhaps I would have been far less bored if I cared more for fantasy/historical fiction that focuses most of its energy on the romance story. Perhaps I would have been less bored if the romance had been the kind to creep up on you, so that you're inwardly pleading that the characters will get together long before they even acknowledge their attraction for one another. Perhaps.However, the r
The heroine - Ismae - is a trained assassin that has some serious man issues (with understandable reason), so why can she do nothing but ogle Duval's sexy body in armour when they are in life-threatening situations?The beginning, in my opinion, was the best part of the whole book.
This book needed a serious injection of badassery.The politics surrounding the issues of Brittany and France in the 1400s could have been much more interesting than it was, except for the fact that it was used as a platform for Ismae and Duval's budding romance.
4.5 stars Absolutely spectacular, and everything you'd expect a historical YA novel about assassin nuns to be. Love love love!
Soon she is in training to be a handmaiden of death, skilled in espionage and murder.This book reads a lot like a romance novel, but I really enjoyed that about it.
Which is unfortunate because it reads so much like an adult romance, and I think that it would be better if it embraced that a bit more.My only huge disappointment is that Ismae suffers from what I am now going to refer to as “Driven Snow Syndrome” (because I see this so frequently that it deserves a label): she’s the kind of character who says, “I’m not a normal human being with a sexuality; I’m a woman.” That is, until one special man comes along and then suddenly it’s, “What are these FEELINGS that I keep having?
When I have to sit down and think about the setting, time period, a huge cast of characters I have to keep up with, political talk, yada, yada, yada...
LaFevers pretty much dangled him in front of us the entire novel like a carrot, so by the time the main characters goes, "It was you!" you're thinking, "It's about time." And that really made me sad because I thought, "There was no way it can be who I think it is.
*mild spoilers* But the part I really disliked about the book was the scene where Ismae had to purge poison from Duval's body by having sex with him.
“When one consorts with assassins, one must expect to dance along the edge of a knife once or twice.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.Well, I thought I was going to hate that... quite the opposite.High Points.Ismae. Breton courts. Nuns. The coolest convent EVER. Saints. The genre (my first historical/fantastical adventure… very exciting). Death’s handmaidens. 13th century gadgets. Poison. Saints. Horsies. Beast. Anne. Secret passage ways. Traitors. Secrets. Corruption. A kiss can be deadlier if you
I know a lot of people will love the relationship and how it develops… but I’m cynical and crotchety and I like to whinge.So even though the beginning was ridiculous, it did win me over eventually and it was very sweet in an ‘Oh, my lord, I just fell into your lap.
People who think religion needs more gadgets.

I look at the Grave Mercy cover and I see Young Adult.
Ugh!When I look a title like His Fair Assassin I think of - hold on to your seats folks, I’m sure you weren’t expecting this - assassins.
An assassin is a wicked cool person with amazing murder, stealth and weapon skills who uses them in order to remove certain obstacles that get in the way of their happiness.
A book about assassins is supposed to be murder/action/stealth/blood/brains filled.
You don’t ruin the Assassin’s Creed story and get to live.Ugh I so much wish the cover had a shirtless dude on it!!
And given those facts, you would be forgiven for thinking that this is your average bodice ripper with all it’s stripped-to-the-shift, sexy occupational hazards of the 16th century, man-rooty goodness (…or badness?)But this is actually a YA novel, which makes it awkward because it actually reads far more like it should have this cover:Look, you can’t just clean up an historical romance, put it through the wash, cut out all the descriptive sex and relabel it YA.
I stayed up very late to finish it and I didn’t regret it for a second.After being abused for her entire life by her vicious father and then married off at fourteen to an equally vicious husband, Ismae is saved by a hedge priest on her wedding night and taken to a convent where she is told that she is a daughter of Mortain, the god of death.
It’s like the action needed to be justified by a life or death situation, which I thought didn’t fit well with the overall tone of the book.Grave Mercy was much more fun than I expected it to be.
Five Solid Stars!When I was reading Grave Mercy, I couldn’t help but reminisce about the life lessons I learned from the nuns I went to Catholic School with.
She learned from the Saint Mortmain nuns:Stealth and cunning knife combat to bring down a man with a marque of Death.Feminine artistry to lure her victims into a false sense of security.The chemistry of poison making that could kill a man a hundred different ways.Defense moves to escape a chokehold or garrote.If those were the lessons being taught by the nuns I grew up with, I'd like to believe I would not have been such a disappointment.
I enjoyed the political backdrop, the killer nuns, the historical time period, the constant intrigue and yes you heard me right...
me halfway into this novel: wait. this isn't a fantasy? this is historical fiction. mixed with fantasy. and it's pretty dang great. the main character is an actual assassin who actually kills her assignments (shade), but the plot is mainly about political intrigue, complicated alliances, and preserving a nation's independence. there's a really nice romantic lead, too!!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Upon starting Grave Mercy things were going swimmingly . . .  “You would not expect a queen to wash her own clothes or lace her own gown, she has handmaids for that. And so it is with us; we serve as handmaids to Death. When we are guided by His will, killing is a sacrament.” My inner bunneh was all like . . .  But then the MC was given the assignment that I thought would be the driving force throughout the book, only to find out what
But then the MC was given the assignment that I thought would be the driving force throughout the book, only to find out what was really going to happen was not how I had imagined .
– is trained to become an assassin – and then gets sent on an assignment only to become smitten with the dude who may actually end up being the bad guy .
It was like going to pick up your brand new blue sports wagon and instead walking away with .
Grave Mercy could be used as an exhibit of why YA books get a bad rap.
From the bad guy (view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)] to that stupid f*&^%g ending.
*4,7/5 stars*“When one consorts with assassins, one must expect to dance along the edge of a knife once or twice.” Grave Mercy is my first Historical Fiction and I'm definitely not disappointed and would read this genre a lot more in the future!Ismae is not your typical YA heroine.
Grave Mercy has the right amount of romance - Ismae's relationship with Duval is intriguing and amusing from the beginning - blended with political intrigue, court life, poisons and killing.
Ok. I'm sure everyone is at least a little bit interested in ASSASSIN NUNS!
When I saw Kirkus give a starred review to the 4th book in this world and make it sounds so enticing, with all the court intrigue and assassinating, I got super excited and thought maybe this would be the case when I try an old DNF and love it and have a whole new set of fantasy books to gush over and look forward to.
Sad. I do think that those people who missed reading these books 5 years ago and are into Maas and lite fantasy/romance, should give this series a go.
Maybe too much of a romance?
➸ Book 2 : Dark Triumph ✮✮✮✮✮ ۩ This is the kind of book you eat and forget most of the details just after reaching the last page, because if there's a new event at each chapter, you quit on the feeling that nothing happened. Actually if Grave Mercy is by no means a bad book, I wasn't impressed either. What surprises me the most is how an original concept as Assassin nuns can lead me to feel slightly underwhelmed. I guess that expectations are everything.  "So," she says, looking back up at me.
Indeed while the writing, the details of the political complots enthralled me, I didn't care much about the big revelation of the villains' identity, for it was pretty obvious since the beginning.
Moreover, I couldn't help but notice the lack of accuracy in the historical facts - I don't know if that's supposed to be accurate, but in case you're wondering, that's not.
Oh, yes, the big events are "true", but except from them, every character is pictured in a wrong way.
But let's talk about the characters, shall we?▧ Ismae, who has a special talent for poison, is sent on an assignment in the Guérande court.
“When one consorts with assassins, one must expect to dance along the edge of a knife once or twice.”  Battered and abused for the majority of her life, Ismae is saved right after her wedding ceremony from a disgusting man and sent to a convent of Mortain's, the God of Death.
All very important themes for a ya novel.I am very excited to read Sybella's book next, I feel like she would be an incredibly interesting character.PS: (view spoiler)[ I think the fact that Ismae literally saved Duval with her magic vagina is fucking hilarious.
2.5 stars. I'm just not that into this. I thought a book about assassin nuns/a group of killer women who live in an abbey would have a bit more action.It's mostly a rather annoying main character who hates men because of a traumatic past and wants to kill them all... yet spends most of the story obsessing over a guy. The romance kind of became the main focus and didn't really work for me. The idea of her being the daughter of Death was unique, but I still didn't particularly LIKE any of the book.
October deal $0.99 on Amazon  I read this a few years ago and really enjoyed the political intrigue and different heroine.
She is a daughter of death better known as Saint Mortain.
She is saved from an arranged marriage and sent to a convent for daughters of Mortain.
To figure out who is plotting against Brittany she must set off to court with Gavriel Duval where she can use her gifts to assess who is plotting against Brittany and the Duchess Anne.I liked that there were complex characters in this novel.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comOne Word:I freaking loved this book and I am buying it for damn sure!
Ismae's mom tried to rid her in the womb with poison from a herbwitch and all of this did was give her a scar and make her a daughter of St. Mortain..the god of death!
She is sent out on missions to kill people that have the marque of Mortain on them, this is like the go ahead to kill them, they are evil.
I mean, it seems like you can't trust but a few in this book!
Plots, schemes, weapons, killings, etc.
This book was outstanding.
You have all the fun elements- a young "kick-ass" female assassin gifted by the God of Death, a potential love interest, court politics, revenge, mistrust, and so on.
Watching Ismae go from a naive young girl, who blindly follows, to a smart thinking young woman, was the best part of the book.Update-3/11/12I was going to write more for this review but I am going to just roll with what I wrote originally right after I read the book.
I loved this book.
While not the prettiest of reviews, it gets the point across!
Each is then sent from the convent into the politics of late 1400s Brittany where they find self confidence through love, purpose, and place in society.The writing: rich period color, first person perspective, strong voice, some graphic violence, modest sex scenes, excellent heroic counterparts, complex politics.
Her journey is one of faith ~ learning to define faith for herself, to find faith in others, and to have faith in her own abilities and in love.Ismae is sent into the high politics of the time to unearth betrayal, learning along the way what she must question and who she must become.
The book lacks action, in depth depictions of things that happened in the book,some things were just too rushed for my liking.I love the politics and scheming in the book, even though I predicted most, I still enjoyed the scheming a lot.The world building is average, it was just okay.
The book is written in the first person point of view of Ismae the MC.
Despite some of her cringing thoughts I still enjoyed her narration and the dialogues in the book.The characters are a bit bland.
Ismae and Duval was okay and the rest was more of a filler than an actual character.
3,5 starsSuch an interesting read.I love the story and the main character.Seems like a start to a great trilogy.I enjoyed reading about Ismae's adventures and I love how she developed as a character.There's action,there's a bit of slow-burning romance which I definitely liked,there's a lot of scheming and there are many interesting historical facts.The supporting characters are very interesting - Duval,the Duchess,Sybella etc.Yes,the writing and the world-building aren't perfect but I really connected with these characters and I had a great time reading about them.Plus,the story really is unique and captivating.
A really good book with a lot of potential.
An unsolicited Advanced Reader Copy was provided by the publisher for review.
But most of all she’s an assassin who is marked by Death himself.
Probably because I haven’t read a great book that’s kept me awake and entertained, until I read Grave Mercy.Nun assassins trained in combat, and poisons, and seduction??
Now that’s a book that caught my interest!!
There’s romance in this book, that’s enough to keep all romantics happy.
At first it’s obvious they’re falling in love, but the readers know it, and the character doesn’t.
Assassin nuns and girls who are trained by Death itself??
Fourteenth century is so different from our own time and being a child was a privilege not a basic human right and - as I used to remind my students in many occasions - back then, being teenager meant that you are adult with all responsibilities that come with that.Characters.
I will just say that I was impressed how author put together ancient believes and character development giving us convent full of nuns and young girls who serve Death.(Read what Tanja thought about Grave Mercy here.)Review posted at Ja čitam, a ti?*Copy of this book was provided by publisher, HMH Books, via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.*
Update: This is on sale for $0.99 US Amazon 22 OCT 2016 - If you have not read this trilogy and like historical fantasy romance, I HIGHLY recommend this!
Ismae escapes from a brutal arranged marriage and is taken to the convent of St. Mortain, the god of death.
Ismae is then sent into a dangerous game of politics and betrayal at the court of young Anne, the Duchess of Brittany.
Sybella, Beast, de Lornay, Anne...Well, ahem, so I liked this book just a little and recommend it.
I'm excited to read the next one, which is about Sybella.
A history of (paraphrased) reader responses to Grave Mercy.Oooh...assassin nuns!Love the historical setting!Yawn.
I didn't love or hate this book.
I'm also pretty sure that most everyone who's read this picked the selection for the assassin nun thing.
In all fairness to the story, I don't think an entire book of assassinations would have gone over well.
Even with some complaints, I still enjoyed watching an assassin nun at work for death, so I'll be heading back to this world at some point.Many of you know that I can't seem to avoid noticing random things in books which make me laugh.
"I am a handmaiden of Death. I walk in His dark shadow and do His bidding. Serving Him is my only purpose in this life, and I have let my annoyance drive that duty from my mind. I will not let that happen again." Like Truthwitch, Grave Mercy is a book I should have loved.  It's got an interesting historical background and assassin nuns. Assassin. Nuns. I'll just let that sink in.Unfortunately, the premise doesn't hold up. The beginning is the best part. We open with Ismae being married against
Serving Him is my only purpose in this life, and I have let my annoyance drive that duty from my mind.
Like Truthwitch, Grave Mercy is a book I should have loved.
It's got an interesting historical background and assassin nuns.
Then we go through a time-skip and everything goes downhill.
Grave Mercy lacks that spark that holds a reader's interest while secondary characters mill about and talk and scheme.
It's less interesting when that one sentence stretches into 300+ pages.(view spoiler)[It also takes a long time for Ismae to stop trusting the convent.
