https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25903764-ghosts
Her stories are so heartfelt and honest.‘‘Ghosts,’’ however, is a little different from her previous works.
It’s definitely the author’s most diverse book to date.However much I enjoyed the Día de los Muertos elements and scenes, though, I found that the addition of actual ghosts who interact with people took away from the realisticity of the story.
Plus Maya, although she is very sick, keeps her smiles on at all times; I found her to be tremendously brave.The themes explored make this a memorable graphic novel I think anyone looking for an original and atmospheric story should read.
History, of course, informs the daily lives of White children, too, but in a way that means they're ignorant--and are taught ignorance--until they're deemed "ready" for that dark history.
Analyses of the bones at the mission burial sites that compare them with bones found elsewhere show that the bones of those who died at the missions were stunted and smaller than the others.Some of Telgemeier's ghosts might have spoken Spanish, but it is far more likely that their first language was an Indigenous one.
Given the history, I think it is unlikely that these ghosts would be smiling as Telgemeier shows in her book.
This was the perfect heartfelt, quick, and light graphic novel to pick up after feeling emotionally exhausted by my first read of the year.Catrina and her family are moving to the coast of Northern California because her little sister, Maya, is sick. Cat isn't happy about leaving her friends for Bahía de la Luna, but Maya has cystic fibrosis and will benefit from the cool, salty air that blows in from the sea. As the girls explore their new home, a neighbor lets them in on a secret: There are g
This was the perfect heartfelt, quick, and light graphic novel to pick up after feeling emotionally exhausted by my first read of the year.Catrina and her family are moving to the coast of Northern California because her little sister, Maya, is sick.
Cat isn't happy about leaving her friends for Bahía de la Luna, but Maya has cystic fibrosis and will benefit from the cool, salty air that blows in from the sea.
As the time of year when ghosts reunite with their loved ones approaches, Cat must figure out how to put aside her fears for her sister's sake - and her own.
Second book for booktubeathon complete! I looooved this one. I'm obsessed with ghosts and skeletons and Dia de Los Muertos so this story was right up my alley. But it also had a ton of heart packed into it as well. Definitely recommend it!
I had some problems with some things. The family stuff was fine. The Mexican stuff and Dia de Los Muertos? Not accurate. At all. If troubles me that it's praised without fact checking and it's being praised so much.
When Maya and Cat meet Carlos - a boy of Cat's age-, he tells them about the ghosts and offers to take them to see them.The most surprising thing about this book to me is that (view spoiler)[it turns out ghosts are real.
(hide spoiler)] 113Ridiculous.Even though the two main families in here are obviously Latino (Mexican), it seems like Maya has no concept of Día de los Muertos and she and Cat don't speak Spanish.
- Cat becomes romantically interested in Carlos, which I found not only unrealistic but totally unnecessary.TL;DR A book that children might enjoy if they are a.) into ghosts, Halloween, or Día de los Muertos or b.) are fans of Telgemeier's work.
Drama started to deal just a tad more seriously with some social issues, but in Ghosts we see her most ambitious and--for me; I'll let you know about what the kids say--satisfying project so far.Cat, a tween, has to leave her friends to move to Bahia de Luna to help with the health of her breathing-challenged sister, Maya, who has cystic fibrosis.
Knowing that people might die is a good thing, I suppose; the fact that Telgemeier has Cat confront her fears about death and the world of spirits adds depth to this story.And in this story ghosts--the spirits of the people we love that Dia de Los Muertos celebrates--are very present in this foggy town.
I bought this book for my daughter at the school book fair and when I handed it to her she screamed, jumped up and down, and disappeared with it into her room.
Fast forward two months and I found it back in her room, carefully placed among her treasures.
But, as the author said in her notes:  At the end of the day, love transcends life and death.
4 stars**I grew up in a Portuguese family where death was a constant topic.
I truly believe I am scarred for life from this merry-go-round of bad news and what I perceived as a child as very impending death.
I always love finding 'hidden gems' like this GN. The relationship between sisters is told from a perspective of hope tinged with possible loss; the relationship with the ghosts of loved ones who return during Dia de los Muertos underlines the limited time we have with our loved ones...a lesson we need to remember every day.
Reading this in my own world, I would give it 5 stars. The sister relationship is spot-on, as always ("attempted grab! successful dodge!"). Raina's facial expressions and comic timing are delightful. Braden Lamb's coloring is incredible. The use of the ghosts, as a terminally ill child and her family deal with death (and navigating family cultural heritage), seems inspired. Yet I'm listening to others' reactions to the use of Spanish missions, Spanish language, and Dia de los Muertos. These views expand my own reading of the story.http://readingwhilewhite.blogspot.com...https://booktoss.wordpress.com/2016/0... https://americanindiansinchildrenslit...
Probably my favorite book by Telgemeier so far. 3/5 stars.
So, here is what I wrote to a friend who was interested in the accuracy of the portrayal of Cystic Fibrosis.
I have a daughter with CF and am pretty actively involved in the CF community: As for the CF stuff, it is definitely accurate, but it is quite rare today for a child of that age to have such advanced stage disease.
Also, while there is some use in moving somewhere with salt water in the air, anyone with that severe of an illness would definitely want to be near a major cf center.
I like Raina Telgemeier's fluid, spunky, unpretentious cartooning a lot, and it is beautifully matched here by a very timely story that is all about embracing the Other. You know, rather than "bombing the shit out of" it.
4 Sister Love STARS   El Dia de los muertos es una celebración hermosa, familiar y que nos hace enorguéllesernos de haber fundido una tradición prehispánica con el catolicismo (así somos de fregones los mexicanos).Pero en la actualidad ha sido un tema por demás manoseado, que sirve para la venta de disfraces y pintarse las caras de catrina sin saber que es una catrina (como Beyonce).Pero bueno, para hacer esta reseña me voy a bajar de mi Hig horse, y le voy a cortar slack a la autora, que en re
<Mi hija Mexicocanadiense ya se ha vuleto su fan, a sus 5 años, porque se pudo ver representada en este libro.Ya se los dije y espero que me hagan caso: REPRESENTATION MATTERS.No tienen idea lo mucho que impacta en la vida de una niña, que esta creciendo con 2 culturas, con 2 lenguajes, y una cabeza muy confundida por querer descubrir a donde se pertenece.
This graphic novel deals with some profound and heavy topics and themes, from the paranormal to cystic fibrosis to moving away your school and friends. However, Ghosts is a beautiful and hopeful graphic novel from the author of Smile, one that teaches younger readers that even in the most dire situations there is always a bright side.
What I did after reading this: I love Raina Telgemeier's graphic novels!
I've read the Babysitter Club, Smile and Sisters.
I loved all of those and when I saw this at the library, I was super excited to read it.
It was a cute story that talks about an important issue.
I love Maya and Cat, they are such loving sisters.
I love how they look out for each other and care for each other.
I feel like it would be better to jump right into this book without knowing much about it.
At least, that's what I did and I enjoyed it.
Hard to rate. The writing can be beautiful, particularly in the interaction between the two sisters. But there are some serious issues with appropriation.
What an enjoyable read! A graphic novel that covers two topics I know little about, cystic fibrosis and Day of the Dead. I found this to be an able introduction to both subjects. And the story was quite entertaining. Maya is such a firecracker, even though she's saddled with CF, while her sister, Cat, seems to always play it safe. By the end of the book, Cat relaxes a bit and finds a way to enjoy life.
This was a really good graphic novel. I have read multiple other books by Raina and have enjoyed them all.I especially enjoyed the fantasy and Mexican cultures and traditions mixed in this story. I also loved how one of the main characters had cystic fibrosis and her treatment was covered in small, powerful ways in this book :)
When Cat and her sister, Maya (yes, that is her name), have to move to Northern California for Maya's health, they become involved in a community that reflects many cultures, especially Latino and Hispanic.
Catrina (yes, that is her name), the older sister, reflecting the standard white-American pre-teen, embodies that fear.
I read this as a sometimes-humorous, othertimes-not story of one's culture(s), of accepting one's past, present, and future (or maybe lack thereof), but mostly of embracing death as a non-scary part of life.
Now I want to get more of Raina Telgemeier's books!What I loved about this book is that it handles multiple topics, while not in depth, with grace: physical disabilities and illnesses, family bonds, coming from a mixed ethnic background (AND EVEN BETTER, NOT ALWAYS HAVING A FIRM FIT BETWEEN THE TWO!), learning who you are, and first crushes.
I also loved having Cat learn more about her mother's side of her family and cultural background.
I don't know what it is about Northern California lending itself to magical realism in YA books, but I am not against it!
This is my least favorite Raina Telgemeier book to date.
It's not particularly charming or funny, it's just kind of...
Ghosts doesn't have the realism of either Smile or Sisters, but it doesn't manage to reach the charming humor of Drama, either.
Unfortunately, this book doesn't hit hard emotionally either.
The family relationships and characters here aren't developed enough, making this book ultimately unmemorable.
Telegemeier's art is charming as always, and there's nothing to hate here.
This book wasn't a bad reading experience for me by any means, and it's a short read, too.
If you like Telgemeier, I'd try this one out!
ETA 9/15/16 Highly recommend this informative comment from Yuyi Morales about the Día de los Muertos and this book. I loved this upon my first read and agreed with the other enthusiastic reviewers, but have recently been made aware of the problematic conflation of Halloween and el Día de los Muertos in the story. I'd like to hear from more about this aspect of the book.
This was my lunchtime reading treat, thanks to a box of ARCs from Scholastic!Well, you know this is going to be a surefire hit with kids (if your kids are as rabid for Telgemeier as mine are). I think this is actually my favorite of Raina's books so far. It's definitely poignant and atmospheric. I devoured it in one sitting and many young fans will, too.
It's trying to do a lot of things at once--to address illness, mortality, and painful family dynamics around illness, all while being upbeat, in a kid's (middle-grade-ish) graphic novel with romance and friendships and ghosts and ghost-related holidays.
While I appreciate that this book looks directly at the painfulness of childhood illness and the proximity of death, and while I think the book's recognition of how much this kind of illness can put all kinds of stress on siblings, and while I'm super grateful that it brings awareness about CF into its pages, there are a few things I'm grappling with and not so sure of.1) That the sick kid is always happy and bubbly and excited about life and the world.
I got this book because I love Telgemeier's work, then was surprised by the amount of hullabaloo surrounding the theme of the story - which is a sort of magical version of Dia de los Muertos in a town where ghosts really do, literally, come back and talk to you.
She talked about how many young Mexican-American kids have never done any of the traditional Dia de los Muertos activities, because that's something their family lost.
Also, I love the message of Dia de los Muertos and the imagery.
This holiday coincides with the Catholic feasts Day of All Saints and Day of All Souls.The novel conveys the wonder of the Days of the Dead, a time to remember, honor, and welcome back the ghosts or souls of those who have passed away.
The Celts believed at this time of the year the boundary between the world of the living and the spirits became porous allowing spirits to enter our world for a brief time.Telgemeier does a wonderful job at portraying teenage angst.This graphic novel deals sensitively with the topic of childhood illness, and the impact of families.
This deceptively slim, yet richly original graphic novel recounts the story of two sisters whose family moves to a (significantly) foggy and breezy oceanside California town for the benefit of younger sister Maya, who suffers from cystic fibrosis and thus, her parents hope, may benefit from the sea winds of this misty, atmospheric coastal enclave.
Awkward adolescent older sister Catrina initially struggles with the move away from her friends and to this odd old place, while at the same time wrestling with fear about Maya's illness and guilt that she feels ambivalent about moving somewhere that's supposed to be healthier for Maya.
Fortunately, Catrina soon discovers that there are lots of intriguing souls to meet in this town, both residents and visitors alike.
10/06/16Raina Telgemeier remains the queen of graphic novels.11/07/16Since my initial review, I've heard about some of the problems (cultural appropriation, insufficient research, "happy sick kid" trope) that others spotted in this book.
I agree with many of the criticisms, but I also think that Ghosts isn't all bad -- a mainstream book by a super-popular author with non-white main characters and a character who has a chronic illness is still a good thing, when the majority of what is heavily promoted by the big publishers still tends to be middle-class white kids without major problems.
I love the complex way Telgemeier layered The Day of the Dead and ghosts and breathing and illness. Anyone who says graphic novels has no place in literacy needs to check this novel out! Fantastic!
