https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557267.The_Mystery_of_the_Hidden_House
Ern Goon makes his first appearance in this book. For that alone, I enjoyed it. And the 'portry' is a real treat too. TO MY DEAR UNCLE Oh how I love thee, Uncle dear, Although thine eyes like frogs' appear, Thy body is so fat and round, Thy heavy footsteps shake the ground. Thy temper is so sweet and mild, 'Twould frighten e'en the smallest child, And when thou speakest, people say, Now did we hear a donkey bray?"Dear Uncle, how...
Soon they realise that “Fatty” wasn’t Fatty at all but Mr Goon’s nephew Ern (Ernest) and Mr Goon has been to each of their parents to make sure that they don’t lead Ern into any mystery-solving, resulting in Pip and Bets and Larry and Daisy being “banned” from solving any mysteries those holidays.
The fake becomes real .
Jika Pak Goon tidak suka dgn PMT, Ern sebaliknya.
Sebenarnya saat liburan ini tidak ada kejadian apa-apa, karena itu Fatty dkk membuat 'kejadian' sendiri dgn mengerjai Ern. Karena kesalahpahaman, Ern mengalami kejadian tidak menyenangkan dgn komplotan penjahat...Ern lucu sekali.
Spitty (it's a pity) Swunderful!"..Di buku ini yg berkesan malah Ern, bukan anggota #findouters Ern lucu, polos sekaligus ember.
Ern bilang apa yg dikatakan pamannya pada anggota PMT, dan sebaliknya.
Fatty, Larry dan Pip sampai bilang, Ern tidak seharusnya mengatakan apa yg diucapkan Pak Goon.
Yah, ini pelajaran ya, ada hal-hal yg memang tidak perlu diungkapkan pada orang lain.
Sedikit agak kecewa dengan karakter pak Goon pada buku kali ini yang digambarkan sangat keras terhadap Ern, keponakannya.
Another guilty pleasure ❣️
It was irritating to read about cruel children
3.5 🌟
This children's book which was published in 1945 had a cover makeover that I had to have on my shelf. The storyline is predictable, but complicated enough to entertain children. :) Enid Blyton, if she were alive today, next year would be her 120th birthday.
This book is terrible.
All the characters demonstrate horrible and/or irresponsible behaviour throughout, particularly with their treatment of Ern, who is constantly abused both physically and emotionally by everyone for no reason.
(The fact that Enid seems to think this is okay because Ern is what might be termed "common" is disgusting.)The contrivances and coincidences leading to the discovery and unravelling of the mystery are the most annoying and unbelievable I have yet come across, from Fatty randomly deciding to disguise himself as Ern but then giving the baddies his own name so that Ern will get kidnapped instead of him, to the convenient farm girl who happens to be swinging on the gate just when Fatty needs her to be, and has apparently seen Ern getting kidnapped but not told anyone about it.Awful!
Akan selalu ada soft spot bagi saya untuk para anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu. Pip, Beth, Larry, Daisy, dan Fatty barangkali yang sudah menemani saya semasa kecil, tetapi mereka masih terus berumur dua belas tahun, sementara saya akan terus bertambah tua. Meski demikian, saya tidak akan pernah melupakan mereka.
The Find outers banned from hunting down mysteries! What sorcery is this! Looks like Fatty will have to go it alone, and in the process of tricking Goon's clumsy nephew Ern he stumbles across a doozy! The others help when they can, and Fatty of course uncovers a stolen car ring and catches the crooks. Typical Enid Blyton fun, good guys vs the bad guys. I do love this series- it's simply smashing!
Book six in the series sees the middle class youngsters trolling the local oaf of a copper and then of course stumble into real mystery fare and save the day as only Blyton's kids can do. Not as bad as it sounds by the way, but nothing to get too excited about either.
I find this book very interesting because this was the book which had many ministry like it has the mystery of the burnt cottage and many other. it was so interesting because in one movement it had problem which was very interesting.I WANT TO SHARE A SUMMARY FOR THE BOOK.
Ern is a great addition (who I very much doubt attends a boarding school)... and it's the winter hols so no ices in this story. Larry, Daisy and Pip continue as character shadows to Fatty and Bets. As a historical read I like the two references to the 'Last War'.
1 of d best
Reading the childhood favourites once again :)
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
lesser of the books... but Ern
A thrilling story with lots of unexpected twists
Good read.
it was a very nice book .....but some times it gets boring
Didn't finish
Wonderful book!!!
One of my childhood favourites! <3
This book is really thrilling .The chapters of this book is interesting.,Overall it was a wonderful book.
Interesting , thrilling and funny .
The best of the series. Exciting. Reminds of the famous five.
how do i read the book there is no option
I read it while I was in the hospital with pneumonia.I loved this book so much since it was the only thing I had close to entertainment.Still,it was cool!
