https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9532.Ender_s_Shadow
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Okay, now don't turn away thinking that this book is just a "re-telling" of the story of Ender's Game from the perspective of the character of Bean. Not at all. This is not simply OSC cashing in on the success of the Ender Series. This is a completely different novel and there is little to no overlap in the actual events of Ender's Game. It simply takes place at the same time as those events. The purpose of this story is two fold. First, we get to really know Bean who turns ou
Okay, now don't turn away thinking that this book is just a "re-telling" of the story of Ender's Game from the perspective of the character of Bean.
This is a completely different novel and there is little to no overlap in the actual events of Ender's Game.
First, we get to really know Bean who turns out to be a character as gifted as Ender and whose life story is absolutely fascinating.
From there, we get to see Bean's recruitment into Battle School and watch the very different road he takes through the Formic (or bugger) War described in Ender's Game.
Not sure if this was my third or fourth read of Ender's Shadow.
Couldn't believe I had never reviewed it (or some of the other Ender books I reread this year).
So I really enjoyed this book, which is a parallel novel of Ender's Game.
And if you're wondering, I would be on Team Bean.
That said, Ender's Shadow, Ender's Game (and the Ender's Game Series) are well worth the read.
Even though the protagonists are very young (especially Bean), this novel connects lots of issues with good storytelling.
I count myself in the party that there shouldn't have been anything past Ender's Game (like The Matrix and most any sequels Hollywood makes nowadays), but I have to admit this was great.As a parallel novel to Orson Scott Card's classic Ender's Game, Ender's Shadow follows Bean, the kid Ender treats like the teachers treated him.While hesitant to pick this up, I had heard that the Shadow series is better than the original quartet, but I couldn't get away from the feeling that it would pretty much be the same book.
I'm glad I was wrong.The first quarter or so of the book takes us from Beans upbringing in the slums of Rotterdam as he barely survives on the streets through the child gangs and bullying to his discovery and entry into Battle School.Already, Ender's Shadow is completely different from Ender's Game.
When I read a description of a book summing it up as a retelling of a story from a different perspective, I groan internally and my interest wanes slightly.Ender's Shadow follows those exact lines.
Bean functions as a direct contradiction, having grown up in squalor with no family, a tiny body, and a brain capable of cutting through almost anything.Bean spends most of the novel slicing through the world of the Battle school at angles that give him vastly more information and awareness of the world than Ender possessed, and his angry, calculating view gives the story a much richer perspective.The only issues arise from the few points where it directly intersects Ender's Game.
I personally found that I enjoyed Ender's Shadow more than Ender's Game.
He also felt more real as a character in that he is awkward and clueless and greatly flawed.The pacing for this book is a little less smooth in comparison to Ender's Game.
The plot, on the other hand, is a little better as you have a greater insight into the background workings of Ender's success.
Graff and other characters come to life in a greater degree and have more personality and "air time".
So too does Petra.Over all, I enjoyed this book.
The down and dirty story of an orphan child who had to learn to survive on his own at the age of four and looked on the world in contempt is just the hero I needed to re-introduce myself to Card's work.I read this book back when I worked at Barnes and Noble and would sneak reads behind the cash register when the store was slow/would get most of my reading done on breaks and lunch.
I didn't particularly feel guilty either because most of the time I was never relieved for my breaks anyway.
He is easily one of my favorite fictional characters of all time, and writing this review now makes me feel the urge to re-read the book.
Even the adults who spend the first book walking a delicate line trying to save Ender from their own work fall down at Bean's feet and beg him to save them from their own inadequacies.The one limitation he has, and I'm not kidding, from his genetically engineered childhood where he was found in a toilet tank, is that he is so smart, so physically developed, and so gosh-darn what the 6 year old reader wants to grow up to be that he's going to die young.
Back on Earth, Sister Carlotta follows various clues to discover an entire subplot about Bean’s secret origins, while elsewhere, a dangerous character from Bean’s past plans to finish things once and for all, eventually, at some point in one of the sequels.
As other reviewers mention, Ender’s Game was about the action.
The mystery is gone, too, since Bean figured out the true nature of the games long before Ender did, and as for the best part of the original novel--the battle room--what little action we get doesn’t compare to the Ender’s version of the story.
Ender’s Shadow didn’t really add anything to it.
...dacă nu ar fi coperta asta care pe mine mă îngrozește, aș spune ca e perfectă.Publicată la treisprezece ani după  Jocul lui Ender , Umbra lui Ender urmărește evoluția lui Bean, unul dintre personajele inițial secundare ale aventurii lui Ender. Orfan, mult prea firav pentru vârsta sa și fără să-și cunoască prea mult trecutul, Bean reușește să supraviețuiască în iadul străzilor din Rotterdam datorită inteligenței sale. Abilitățile lui neobișnuite atrag atenția sorei Carlotta care îl recomandă F
, Umbra lui Ender urmărește evoluția lui Bean, unul dintre personajele inițial secundare ale aventurii lui Ender.
Orfan, mult prea firav pentru vârsta sa și fără să-și cunoască prea mult trecutul, Bean reușește să supraviețuiască în iadul străzilor din Rotterdam datorită inteligenței sale.
Evoluția stilistică a lui Orson Scott Card este fascinantă, mi se pare uluitor modul în care acesta reușește să își captiveze cititorului printr-o poveste al cărei deznodământ e deja cunoscut.
Pe lângă surprinzătoarea origine a lui Bean și incredibila luciditate prin care Orson Scott Card îi motivează acțiunile, cartea asta este genială și prin subtilitatea cu care surprinde frământările politico-sociale ale Pământului.
In the end, Bean shows himself to be a vital part of the team that Ender assembles to save the Buggers and cement humanity’s place in the cosmos.Ender’s story is all about empathy and self-understanding and his desire to be the person he wants to be, rather than the person humanity needs him to be.
The two characters come at each other from different directions and view the world in vastly different ways, giving us a kind of parallax view of the same events, to use Card’s preferred terminology.Most interestingly, many of the revelations that were revealed to Ender in his book were discovered by Bean in this one, which creates a whole different reading experience.And that’s why I wish I could delete my memory of having read Ender’s Game,, or at least put it away for a while.
Ender’s Game captured readers’ attention, especially YA readers, because the story was about a lonely 12-year old military genius who had to survive Battle School, prove his leadership skills against older kids and the manipulative generals in charge of him, and beat an implacable alien fleet with only his tactical ingenuity.
It’s unlikely that readers will come to Ender’s Shadow without having first read Ender’s Game, so Card has to achieve the difficult goal of giving us a fresh look at the events of Ender Wiggin’s time at Battle School from Bean’s perspective, and I was pleasantly surprised to find that he pulled it off quite well.Bean is a very different character from Ender.
Ender's Game:There's this really, really smart kid, see, and he's lonely, and he has to do really hard stuff, and adults are mean.OK. I can get with that.Ender's Shadow:Oh, but I forgot to mention, there's this OTHER kid, who's even smarter, like really, really, REALLY smart, and he's also even lonelier, and he has to do even harder stuff, and the adults are even meaner.Give me a break. Yawn. I think Card is great but this is just ridiculous. I read Shadow of the Hegemon but quit after that.
This book tried really hard to ruin  Ender's Game for me.
He ensures that Ender ends up saving the world -- without his help, Ender would have failed.It was interesting to see the events of Ender's Game from a different perspective, but that's about the only positive thing I have to say about this book.
Possibly the deepest theme element in the book is how Bean's interactions with Ender forced him to care about someone other than himself.
End of Bean's worries that he might not be human.It seems like Orson Scott Card also tried to pull in some elements of Alan Dean Foster's "Flinx" series, with the whole "genetically manipulated super-human with emotional insecurity" thing.Great.
Instead, Card let the many years that passed between the writing of the original "Ender’s Game" short story, and the conceptualization of "Ender’s Shadow", shine through.
Graff is even put on trial at the end of the book for his involvement, and is deemed not guilty, in no small an example of the ends justifying the means."Ender’s Shadow" takes these machinations, these deceptions of both the children at Battle School and the general public, and throws it out.
Younger even than Ender, Bean ends up manipulating Graff and Anderson, in order to achieve the results we saw in "Ender’s Game".
The Bean series, beginning with "Ender’s Shadow", has me hesitant to read anything else Card has written in the Ender-verse.
We are briefly introduced to Bean’s life on Earth before he is called to Battle School, and the book ends in approximately the time/place as Ender’s Game… so is it the same story?
(Much like the disagreements between Phantom of the Opera fans between “Phantom” fans and “Raoul” fans, there are those who – after reading both books – are “Ender” fans versus “Bean” fans.) Better still, we are given a completely different perspective on the circumstances and developments that occur while both Bean and Ender are in Battle School.Both books can be read as stand-alone novels, so someone reading only Ender’s Game has the full story, as does someone only reading Ender’s Shadow.
Since Ender’s Game is my all time fav, so is this. ❤️
Glad that the book has stricken me--not the setting but the story line and the main the protagonist of the book.Bean is a gifted child.
One reason of why the book a page-turner one is how interesting the main character is.
If I have the list of likable child characters, I now say that Bean is at the top of them as what his ratings did in this book.
And now I dare break it by recommending this to everybody else especially to those who haven’t read yet the Ender’s Game and also to everyone who loves YA sci-fi books.
Almost everyone I talked to about Ender's Game, told me I should read Ender's Shadow, it's just as good, if not better.
The events affecting Ender's learning at Battle School have been replaced by monotonous thoughts and explanations in Ender's Shadow.
He is good yes, but it is not until Dragon Army when Ender's presence truly takes over the school, when it becomes truly clear how obsessed the teachers are with his potential.In essence, none of the characters in Card's retelling held any interest to me, even Sister Carlotta, the nun, came off as arrogant, sarcastic, and manipulative.
I was blown away by Ender's Shadow. I was surprised that a re-telling of Ender's Game from Bean's perspective could be so enjoyable. I loved Ender's Game more after reading Ender's Shadow as it added a depth and new level of understanding to circumstances I thought I already fully grasped. I tip my hat to Orson Scott Card for this brilliant display of story telling. Love it!
I found it fascinating how Card used this as a parallel to Enders Games. He was able to take my favorite character from Enders Game and tell the same story from a much different and more interesting perspective. This novel follows Bean from early childhood up through the ranks within battle school and command school. I would suggest reading this book AFTER you have read Enders Game.
Slow at first but then as you weave into Bean's perspective you see everything from his conclusions and I came to like him very much, more even than Ender.
How systematically Bean took his place knowing everyone would follow Ender but not him, understanding people did not like or trust him, processing lengthy paragraphs of deductive reasoning in a split second until he had could accurately access any situation so you as the reader recognize the potential he never gets credit for.
I just wish Card would have known Bean's story while he wrote Ender's so he could place better clues about Bean's story in the original story.
Also, one of Bean's character traits is that he's very small, so there's no hand-to-hand combat with him in the way that there was with Ender.
All the parts that might have been hand-to-hand combat in Ender's Game were instead replaced with pages and pages of--you guessed it!--thinking.Card seems to enjoy going off on this boring tangents wherein his characters have cryptic discussions about religion and the military--two subjects I really couldn't care less about.
And I especially don't care about the theological beliefs of every single minor character in the series.Anyway, I would go so far as to say that this book ruined Ender's Game for me.
Even more amazing is that this book was the re-telling of a story I've already read, only told from a different perspective.
Card himself asserts in his afterword that the audiobook version is the best presentation of his story, superior to reading the book in print or to the potentially forthcoming film version of Ender's Game, which will be a blend of this book and that one.The pacing is excellent, the background is rich and engaging, and the characters are deeply complex and consistent.
Elements of the story that are shared with Ender's Game aren't repetitive but rather simply familiar.
He's done it twice!!! Just as good as Ender's game, might even be slightly better.
When I did start to comprehend what was happening, I became more interested in the book and wanted to read more of it.
I’d love to read all of the other perspectives.
It’s really interesting that someone would write multiple books about the same event, but just in different some of the other characters point of views.
I would definitely read this book again, because I still don’t completely understand everything.
But even though I was confused for some of this, it’s still a really good book and I would definitely recommend it to everyone.
Great new perspective about the actions taking place in Ender's Game ! And the Bean Saga really looks promising! Hope the other volumes are as good!
Should really be read in tandem w/ Ender's Game, actually. I consider the two as one book.
When we were told that we would be put in smaller groups and would be reading a science fiction book, I was not thrilled.
In general, I do not like science fiction.
Ender's Shadow was not the book I would have chosen to read.
Ender's shadow started off odd, confusing, and slow.
When we kept reading and the setting changed to battle school, we quickly realized that the beginning didn't have very much to do with the rest of the book.
The rest of the book was okay.
Would I read it again?
I am ashamed to admit that I've never finished the Ender's Game original set.
But I did read Ender's Shadow, which I think most people really liked.
It takes longer to get to the GOOD story, though it is interesting to see the background on this kid.Most of what I disliked, though, is that this re-interpretation is NOT what Card originally had in mind when he wrote Ender's Game.
The character that exists in Ender's Shadow is NOT the same character that is in Ender's Game.
In Ender's Shadow we get Ender's softer side, his insecurities.
He faces a true threat from a bigger kid that sets out to hurt him and maybe kill him - but never fear, he overcomes the threat.Therefore in Ender's Shadow we have Bean, a super-precocious child, smarter even than The One, the smartest ever.
Oh also this serial killer kid is super-smart too.It's like Card was deliberately trying to strip everything out everything that made Ender's Game so good and repackage it in blazing "NEW!" "IMPROVED!" graphics.
