https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003105.The_Paradox_Men
6.0 stars. On my list of "All Time Favorite" novels. The great novels of the "Golden Age" of science fiction, when done right, are some of the best stories EVER WRITTEN. After having just re-read this story (February 14, 2010), I would put this book in that category (along with other notable examples such as Fury by Henry Kuttner, The Stars My Destination by Alfred Bester, and The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov). This book is superbly written, has a compelling, fast-moving INTELLIGENT plot, and an outstanding ending with a message. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!
I picked up this book because it had been compared to Alfred Bester's "The Stars, My Destination," one of my favorite sci-fi novels, AND because it is listed as one of the Top 100 sci-fi novels in David Pringle's excellent overview book.
This is one terrific science fiction novel, as fast paced and colorful as the Bester novel, and featuring a similar use of colorful characters and extravagant imagination.
Einsteinian theories of the universe, Toynbeean history and non-Aristotelian philosophy are all mixed into a swashbuckling and fast-moving pulp story, with a backdrop of a technologically advanced society on the decline.
Charles L.
Harness' "The Paradox Men" is an uncanny prophecy of cool technology, considering the story was written in 1949!
Contains echoes of Alfred Bester's "The Stars, My Destination", a dash of Arthur C.
Clark's "2001 A Space Odyssey" (think cave men), a warped version of H.G. Wells' "The Time Machine", and a bit of PKD's "The Minority Report" starring a freaky precog called Meganet Mind.
No, not DreamWork's Megamind, mind you.
Unfortunately the story was bogged down by brain crushing hard science that would have given Einstein a brain haemorrhage...and endless psychobabble that would have driven Freud insane.
‘The Society of Thieves was the only organisation that flouted authority in America Imperial: they robbed the rich to buy freedom for the slaves.
And in tripe to the Moon and even the Sun itself, Alar begins to see what part he is destined to play in the struggle for men’s freedom.Blurb from the 1967 Four Square paperback edition.Harness, like Bester, wrote far less than his fans would have wished.
His wife, Keiris was once married to the revolutionary Kennicott Muir, who set up the Society of Thieves, a Robin Hood style organisation dedicated to robbing the rich and bringing about the end of institutionalised slavery.
Featured in David Pringle's "Science Fiction: The 100 Best Novels", and originally published in 1949, this is a forgotten Golden Age sci-fi would be classic.
Alar, suffering from amnesia, races across the solar system to unravel his mysterious past while avoiding capture by an oppressive, heavy handed government who believes he possesses special powers that could derail their plans for war.Packed with action, intrigue and a smart, fast moving plot the story holds up well today.
But it holds up well on its own as a fun, original, well put together story.
Heavy on ideas and plot, weak on characters and prose style. Fairly fun and with a great ending
Algo que se nota mucho, primero en la ambientación, como de película de capa y espada del Hollywood de los años treinta y cuarenta pero en cf (por buscar una referencia moderna, yo me imaginé la ambientación de "The Paradox Men" vestida con la fantástica dirección artística del videojuego "Dishonored 2" con el que la novela de Harness guarda un par de curiosos parecidos) y segundo, en el personaje principal, Alar, ese hombre, casi superhombre, obsesionado con cumplir Su Misión, en este caso descubrir su verdadera identidad, aunque en el fondo no deja de ser otra marioneta manipulada por las corrientes de la historia.
I first read about it in Brian Aldiss's SF history, Trillion Year Spree, where he categorizes it as a exemplary example of Widescreen Baroque, comparing it favorable to some of my other favorite SF such as The Stars my Destination and The World of Null-A.
I'm pleasantly surprised to find that it holds up to those other classics, especially after reading a disappointing Charles Harness book (Firebird).
Like Stars and Null-A, the main character is a man of superhuman potential with a mysterious background.
But my favorite character was the villain, the brilliantly named cruel emperor Haze-Gaunt, who's given a strong back story motivated by jealousy and a great ending.
A really fun fast read that has held up well.
Some of the physics is just wrong (confusing relativistic increase in mass with an increase in rest mass / gravity), outdated (the universe is only 13.7 years old), or half baked ( an event a billion light years away would take a billion years to show up, so you can't take a picture of it yet).
The twists and surprises are setup enough that you can guess what is coming, but the novel is perfect nevertheless.
This is great, fast paced story telling with some depth.
Yeah, you should read it.
I first read this book 40 years ago, so re-reading it was an adventure in meeting my younger self.
The book stands up very well.
It's a well written story of a Thief (capital T) with no memory of his previous life, and his gradual uncovering of his past, which coincides with a crisis in the murderous totalitarian society in which he lives.I loved the book in it's original day, and it is still very good.
I have docked a star because the main female character is a bit of a cardboard cut-out - though this is not unusual in SF then - or now!
This was an interesting paradox story. The mystery in it is not nearly as difficult as the intro claims, and the ending, given the mechanism that brought it about, is more than a bit frightening—there should be millions or billions of “paradox men” out there, each thinking their vision is the right one.It is very well-written and a great emissary from fifties sci-fi.
Have had this book on my shelves and have been meaning to read it for 30 years. Finally decided it was time to pull it down and check it out. It reads kind of like a more coherently plotted A.E. Van Vogt. If I'd read it 30 years ago when I was in my early twenties (or earlier, in my teens), I probably would have been blown away. Now, I enjoyed it but found it rather dated.
Puntuación paradójica: entre 5 y 3 estrellas. Lo bueno y lo malo de la literatura de ciencia ficción, y también lo bueno y lo malo de los grandes clásicos del género.Three or five stars: paradox punctuation. The good and the bad of science fiction literature, and also the best and the worst about the commonly considered great classics of the genre.
Golden Age Science Fiction -- featuring swashbuckling science professors! Not much on time travel. Also .....Fails the Bechdel test.(The Bechdel test asks if a work of fiction features at least two women who talk to each other about something other than a man. The requirement that the two women must be named is sometimes added.)
A Fantastic novel. Particularly I liked the travelling through the space with the velocity exceeding that of light. I think I might consider creating a new folder, the best science-fiction books, with putting this book there.
For the time in which it was written, 1949, this book was very good. Some very interesting science fiction concepts were explored and the characters were well developed. This book is number 10 in the book "Science Fiction: The 100 Best Novels" by David Pringle. On to number 11!
Yes, a very nice story!
This would have been a good one for my high school SF class. Adventuresome, pithy, and even sexy!
Exhilarating, panoramic, baroque.
As he gloats over her former husband's disappearance and presumed death during a space exploration mission five years earlier, Keiris and company interact with the freakishly analytic being known as the Mega-Mind to calculate and explore probabilities that can either help Keiris gain freedom from Haze-Gaunt and help the cause of Alar and the Thieves or lead to Alar's capture and destruction by the ruling class of Haze Gaunt and his colleagues.Somewhere mixed in is Alar's identity crisis, Keiris' uncertainty regarding her husband's disappearance, and Haze Gaunt's spearheading a confusing plan that somehow Alar can threaten.
Add into this lots of scientific speculation, Alar's developing abilities as a mutant, the mysterious identity of the Mega Mind, and a battle of wills and strategy that will change the course of human history.
This is one strange book. Full of action (it starts with the main hero in middle of doing robbery some high aristocrat home). But it’s also full of physics theories about time and space with starship, lunar base and solar expeditions. Ah, and this world definitely is apocalyptically. But most of all this book is about people -their aggression, their petty squabbles that becomes the end of this civilization. I can’t say that I fully grasp all authors thoughts. Maybe I will reread it, but not in the near future-i need time to comprehend it firstly.
Harness has been compared to one of my favourite SF writers, Alfred Bester, and Michael Moorcock praised ‘The Paradox Men’ in his classic anarchist review essay ‘Starship Stormtroopers’.
The main villain kept reminding me of Dick Dastardly and Muttly from ‘Wacky Races’.As a example of 1940-50s SF, ‘The Paradox Men’ can’t be read as any kind of technological prediction.
The central ideas of this book are fascinating, and I really don’t want to discourage people from reading it.
However this is a very strong example of the type of SF book in which the strongest character is the idea itself.
I was not impressed by The Paradox Men. I wanted to like the novel, but it was a no go.
While the novel is interesting at places, it’s certainly no ticking time bomb.
The abrupt changes in narration and awkward jumps in time (and space) did little to bolster my interest.
The long passages with scientific mumbo-jumbo and philosophical/political discourses were tiring, especially because there is little differentiation among characters.
To top it off, I found the world building somewhat lacking, because I never had the feeling of being immersed in Imperial America.While I see the merits of this novel (especially in the context of the decade when this novel saw the light of day), I guess it's not for me, folks.
Un romanzo con molte solide idee di base, che soffre dell'eccessiva brevità e della troppa azione condensata in poche pagine. Tante, troppe influenza di Van Vogt, controbilanciate da una superba descrizione dei dettagli scientifici. Risente dell'età. Al di là dei pregi e dei difetti, assolutamente impagabile Vittorio Curtoni che elogia Harness come "uno dei rari scrittori che decidono di mettersi al lavoro solo quando hanno qualcosa da dire", subito dopo una postfazione dello stesso Harness che spiega come abbia tirato in piedi il romanzo attingendo un po' qui un po' lì per racimolare soldi.
Read this only a few years ago and don't remember a thing about it.
