https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2728102-the-fortnight-in-september
And like the season, with summer edging inexorably into autumn, the book is also about the passage of time in a family’s life.
The older two children, Dick and Mary, have both left school for the world of work, and the days of family routines and rituals are certainly numbered.
The characters’ fears, joys and small triumphs will not be to every reader’s taste, but by the end of the book, I felt much sympathy for the Stevens family and their long-vanished way of life.
The two weeks when the Stevens family left their South London home for their annual holiday, by the sea in Bognor.It sounds simple, and yes it is, but it is also lovely.One summer, between the wars, R C Sherriff visited Bognor.
Would they?Every detail, every emotion, that makes up a holiday is here, perfectly realised.The time and the place came to life.And a family so very well drawn, whose the story catches so much that is important in life: home, family, friendship, love, the passing of the years, disappointment, acceptance … with wonderful subtlety and honesty.My fortnight with the Stevens ended when they set out on their homeward journey.
And things do happen to them, in the way that things really do happen to people on holiday most of the time--not huge startling changes, but small events and experiences that still leave their mark.Sherriff also manages to convey the feeling of being on holiday so well--the start of it, with everything still to come, the way the days go by faster and faster, until the end is upon you before you know it.
He writes in the introduction that he didn't know what would happen to the characters next when he stopped writing for the day, just as they wouldn't know exactly what would happen on the next day of their holiday, and this comes through very clearly in the book.
He found that he had to learn to know the Stevens family before he could write about them without looking down or up to them, instead to "walk with them easily, side by side."And the wonderful thing about the book is that he does exactly that.
The story is full of seemingly inconsequential details -- the family doesn't even get on the train to the seaside for about sixty pages -- but because Sherriff describes everything so precisely and simply, everything is absorbing.
Well, it took nearly a fortnight in August for me to read this book!
In a nutshell, it's the story of a family getting ready for their fortnight (100 pages before they even get there) to Bognor, a town they visit every fall.
While it was in dull in spots, the quietness really captured me, it had a feeling of fall.
Sherriff ably captures that feeling of going away from home for a while, the anxiety (or is that me) of the return, and the familiarness of returning year after year to the same spot.
There is something very gentle and soothing about this book which simply recounts a two week family vacation at a costal resort town in 1930’s England with touching detail of their hopes, fears, small rituals and quiet comforts. The Stevens family has been visiting Bognor, staying at the same bed and breakfast, for 20 years. Now that the children are nearly grown, this last visit is tinged with a slight melancholy and wistfulness.
Exquisitely written, this 1931 novel is a deep contemplation of life, with all its disappointments. The long discriptions miss nothing out: a fortnight's holiday at the seaside, in all its minutiae. The characters are delightful, but lead very mediocre lives.I really wanted to love this book, but found that I was needing something more exciting, more substantial to bite into.
Lovely story of a lower middle class family between the wars, taking their annual holiday at the seaside boarding house they go to every year.
I'm a fanatic beach-goer myself and love the ritual of going as much as the actual vacation, so this novel was especially dear to me.
I loved the relationship among the relatives, how everybody was kind and thoughtful to each other, but at the same time lost in their own worlds (including a clandestine romance of sorts for the daughter).
In addition to being a sensual delight (loved feeling the sun on my shoulders, the wind in my hair, the sand on my lips as I read), this is also a beautiful description of how simple pleasures mean so much.
I love this book...it has a special place in my heart.
It’s all wonderful stuff, and I half-wished the author had followed the family’s journey home over another hundred pages.My inter-library loan copy had literally been read to pieces: the spine was missing, both covers detached and the loose pages held together by rubber bands.
It's a miracle of a book: simple story of an ordinary family going on a fortnight's holiday to Bognor in September - as they've done for 20 years.
Yet it made me think of that scene in Alan Bennett's History Boys when Hector tells Posner: "The best moments in reading are when you come across something – a thought, a feeling, a way of looking at things – which you had thought special and particular to you.
It's a story of a long-vanished world, which manages to feel familiar and comfortable, even though we may never have experienced it (if we're under 90).
White canvas shoes, finding sand between the pages of a book, skin tender from the sun, the salty smell of the sea, evening strolls and endless naps, badminton and raspberries, reading until my eyes hurt, way past bedtime.
It is in its essence a simple book - a English middle class family on their traditional two week vacation by the sea.
But anyone who has ever had a job and therefore knows the bittersweet feeling of summer vacay will be moved by this book.
It is very detail oriented and it gives you the feeling like you are living the two sun-drenched weeks there, together with the Stevens family.
This is a delightful novel first published in 1931 - about the Stevens annual fortnights holiday in Bognor.
Mr Stevens is a middle aged clerk - his wife a quiet gentle woman who secretly finds this holiday a bit of a strain.
This is a novel about ordinary people who live small lives, and the things which loom large and have unimaginable importance within that life - such as Mrs Stevens medicinal bottle of port she buys each year on the holiday, and the wearing of comfortable holiday clothes and canvas shoes.
This is a charming novel, quite melancholic in some ways - although never sad.
Henry James once said of Trollope that "His great, his inestimable merit was a complete appreciation of the usual." I was reminded of that quote while reading this marvelous work.
Mr. Sherriff was able to show beauty in the anticipation, execution and end of a family vacation.
He conveyed so much with so few words and in so doing showed his mastery of the written word.
Like Trollope, his generous heart shows through his portrayal of each character, sketched with real appreciation of his or her interior life.
This is the sort of book one could read every few years and experience delight anew.
What a beautiful, beautiful book. Reminded me of the styles of Dorothy Whipple, Barbara Pym and Dottie Smith. It is a book that "simply" describes one middle class, English family on their annual holiday to the sea. What Sherriff does with this setting is a masterpiece. Each member of the family comes alive for the reader and many of the people they encounter. He expertly captures this family's love for one another and their ever-changing dynamics. If you love novels that are beautifully written and describe ordinary people and their inner lives, this is for you. Strongly recommend.
When asked which book he was currently reading he spoke very highly of 'The fortnight in September' by R C Sherriff.This is quite a simple story in which nothing really dramatic occurs.
So much happens in this simple story of a family holiday.
Not a detail is wasted or washed over from the moment the Stevens' plan their trip to the day they return home.The greatness of this book is how it allows the reader to relate to the simple description of a family’s annual holiday in Bognor (Regis) as well as to identify with the hopes and fears of all the main characters within.
A very sweet, thoughtful novel about an ordinary lower middle class family on their annual holiday to a shabby boarding house in Bognor. It is a slow moving story where every detail of the preparations, journey and holiday is described. I love a detailed domestic novel from this period, but I couldn't help wondering where the wider world fitted into their lives, given that this was published just a decade or so after the 1st World War and during a major recession...but I suppose that would be a different novel.
This is one of those books that pays attention to the minutae of life in order to 'speak great truths'. But by page 106 we were still on the train on the way to Bognor for the two week holiday- we'd cancelled the milk, we'd made sandwiches and a thermos of tea for the journey, we'd dropped the pet budgie off at the neighbour to look after... The book continues on and on like this which is good if you want to force yourself to slow down but personally, I'd prefer just to stop for a kitkat
I finished this book in 36 hours and loved every word of it - a simple but profound story of an ordinary family and their annual two weeks by the seaside in September. So evocative of a lost simpler and kinder world where true values meant everything and were their own reward - read it and you won't be disappointed
Few books are so evocative of a time, a class, a country and a season -- and so utterly charming with it. An understated English masterpiece.
You may, like the Stevens family, seek the familiar, look forward to returning to a home away from home, where you can relax fora week or two.In The Fortnight in September we follow the Stevens family on their annual trip to Bognor Regis.
The fortnight gives him chance to assess his life, and brings with it an epiphany that allows him to no longer dread the return to the everyday.
Mary too takes the next steps towards adulthood, moving further away from the comfort of her family but with the safety net of them being around allowing her to make decisions for herself.If someone tells you that a book where nothing happens is boring, then show them this book and tell them they are wrong.
There is no plot in this book - it is just a description of the annual vacation of the Stevens family.
Because there is a fair bit going on behind the placid routine of a seaside vacation.
Mr and Mrs. Stevens are very conscious of the fact that this may be the last summer vacation they take as a family - their 19 year old son and 17-year old daughter may prefer different plans the following year.
Mrs. Stevens, a timid little mouse of a woman, is thankful for her family and happy whenever they are happy.
If you want to imaginatively experience the mindset and views of vintage life then this is utterly evocative of the time.
This book was a huge surprising success for Sherriff so even at the time of publishing it proved popular.
Each family member learns something new about themselves and the world.
The book reads easily and soothingly while unfolding scenes and shifts that reveal a character's world view and the opening out of that view to reveal a bit of a bigger picture.
I was captured from the minute I picked this up, a stowaway with The Stephens for two glorious hot weeks at the back end of the summer in the 30s.
Having brought up a son and had many wonderful family holidays the sentiments really don’t change over the years, but oh my, the etiquette that this family had to abide by, it was exquisite and often painful to read - and sometimes just laugh out-loud funny.
There were even moments of high drama that set my heart racing and others when I had a tear in my eye.Books like this are so important as they describe an era now passed.
It was a little slow at first before I got into the rhythm of it but about half way through I realized how much I was looking forward to spending my lunch at work with the characters.
It was a splendid little vacation at the beach and reminded me of the vacations to the Lake or the Dunes my family took.
Wonderful observations of the routines of family life and how they change and stretch over the years.
It manages the worries of the family while giving them plenty of happiness without being saccharine.
This is an affectionately written study of a time now very much past, full of incidental detail of the daily lives of a south London family between the wars, preparations for the annual jaunt to Bognor and the quiet but intense pleasure of actually being there.
It feelingly evokes the appreciation of modest excitements felt by a generation whose opportunities for diversion were limited and the preciousness of every moment away from normal routine.
Sherriff had a keen eye and ear for his characters and portrays them with sympathy and gentle humour.
Gentle story about a British family's annual trip to the shore. An existential look at each member--the skittish mom, the blustering but soft-hearted dad, the oldest son who isn't quite sure about his path in life, and the 19 or 20 year old daughter who briefly steps outside her family's protective circle to possibly fall in love. It speaks to a certain time and class in English society. Sweet in its view of family but pretty sexist with a narrow vision of what's available to the mom and sister.
I'm shocked that this is a Persephone "forgotten fiction by unjustly neglected authors." It shouldn't be forgotten because it's such a well-written book. It's simple, as the title suggests it is about a family's two week vacation to coast of England. Nothing terrible happens. But it is melancholy which gives it some weight. It's like the real conflicts are just beneath the proper exteriors and expressions and conversations. Conflict in each character about what life is, the passage of time, death. Brilliant.
This quiet but moving story of an English family’s annual two week vacation is one of my favorites from this year’s reading. The carefully noted details of their preparation, train trip, and time at the beach gradually surprise the reader with the slow revelation of the thoughts and feelings of each member of the family (except the youngest).
As others have said, nothing happens. But I have a whole group of favourite books I bracket as "Nothing happens ..... beautifully", so of course, this has to be one of them. No there isn't a plot. Why do so many readers need one? This is just as the title says, the description of "The Fortnight in September". The family's annual holiday. Every little boring inch of it. And it is charming!
