https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11140.Mere_Christianity_and_The_Screwtape_Letters
Deeeeeeeeeeep and mind-blowing! Lewis has a way of explaining Christianity as if it is the most sensical concept in the world (which is a stretch even for a Christian --I mean, a lot of the time we're thinking, "This is crazy!"). But he clearly lays out what Christianity is and why it makes logical sense. The Screwtape Letters helps you wrap your brain around the Divine Conflict and understand Satan's agenda.
Mere Christianity is kind of like Jesus 101. An examination of what Christianity means from the philosophical side, in the form of a gentle conversation, without all the trappings of strident dogma that so often turn seekers away. Bits may appear dated, given the era in which it was written, but for the most part it's classic.
One of the most convincing discussions on the topic of Christianity that I have ever read. I almost converted back.....umm...not quite that convincing. It did give me a better appreciation of what Christianity could be, and probably once was.
The book probably deserves 5 stars, but because of some significant theological differences I just couldn't do it.
Fiction and Non-Fiction in one volume by the great Christian theologian, apologist and Oxford scholar. TSL is one of the best pieces of Christian fiction ever written...especially from a demonic point of view.
Mere Christianity was great! The five stars are for it alone. ( I don't "get" Screwtape Letters.")
boring book. this book was so boring I zoned out while reading It. it is a good thinking book but this isn't my cup of tea. P.S. I only read the Screwtape Letters.
I LOVED this book.
(One-time reads are for libraries to hold onto!) C.S. Lewis does a remarkable job at logically walking the reader (or radio listener as it was first intended) through the intellectually sense and root of Christianity.
There are so many witty observations and creative analogies, so that lay persons can truly enjoy this theological read.
All Christians should read this book - it will help us be more understanding of each other and help us love and explain our beliefs to those who haven't yet embraced Christ.I haven't read the Screwtape Letters yet.
Those who are new believers or searching Truth will find the simple logic (but Old English) both convincing and convicting.
It's more straightforward than you can imagine.New believers and sceptics alike cannot logically counter the pure Truth and method that C.S. Lewis employs as he discribes his own search for God and discovers Christianity as the only Truth to answer life's most essential questions.I cannot challenge his statements except in one remark which would go unnoticed by most.
He allows a fissure by conceding to the popular thought that was beginning in his day and has continued to the present concerning creation and how evolution might not be ruled out by Scripture.
This book came along at a time in my life when I was deeply soul searching and it completely changed my outlook on what I thought wanted out of life and how to get it.
I credit this book for the reason I am now married, because after reading this story I realized what was most important to me and why I was afraid of it.
This book is great for so many other reasons too: it's a logical argument for Chrisitanity and all of it's facets.

Mere Christianity- I really enjoyed this book.
I appreciate the logical way he represents the agreements raised in this book.
I believe it would appeal to Christian and non Christians alike.
I would definitely recommend it to anyone who has questions concerning what the Christian life is.
I will probably read this again.
The Screwtape letters- I listened to the audio version with Andy Serkis.
I just finished it for the third time before starting Mere Christianity.
I think it is excellent.
I learned something new each time and I recommend it to anyone.
It was entertaining and intelligent.
Recently re-read both of these books after seeing again the movie about C.S. Lewis' life.Enjoyed both ... but as always, especially enjoyed The Screwtape Letters. Who else but Lewishas dared to write how-to book of instructive letters from a senior devil to a junior devil."My dear Wormwood ...I note with grave displeasure that your patient has become a Christian. Do not escape the hope that you will face the usual penalties..." and all from Wormwood's affectionate uncle Screwtape.Don't miss this one if you've never read it!
I enjoyed both works but I definitely found "Mere Christianity" more compelling. It was fresh and intersting. C.S. Lewis brings out his philosophy in a relatively straightforward way (after the first couple heavy chapters on moral theory). He really helped me think about my faith and I found the ways he explains doctrines understandable and in line with my own views. Yet, it was a non-demonational discussion which was also a plus. He is my favorite religious theologian now.
Screwtape Letters is surprisingly funny and shows some really incisive self-awareness by Lewis. Mere Christianity hangs its entire argument on an assertion, made in the first ten pages, that must have sounded convincing at the time it was written. The rest heads downhill and gets lost in dogmatic minutia.
Haven't finished it but already Fallen in Love with it. Very inspirational books! C. S.Lewis, among the best Christian writers who are not in a great number, knows the nature of humans so much! Seems it could be imagined how much he suffered in reversing his thoughts during his writing those letters from the perspective of the Screwtape. Mere Christianity is the masterpiece.
I love anything by C.S. Lewis. This is one of my coffee table books. In Mere Christianity he says that only a bad person needs to repent: only a good person can repent perfectly. The worse you are the more you need it and the less you can do it. The only person who could do it perfectly would be a perfect person and he would not need it. I love that in his Full Surrender.
C.S. Lewis has an amazing way of explaining Christianity in "Mere Christianity" so there is no doubt about the truth of the Bible and our faith. I read "The Screwtape Letters" years ago, but it is still very timely! Lewis describes "the father below" in a very unique and witty way. A must read for those who are trying to define their faith.
I thorougly enjoyed the Screwtape Letters. It was good to know the perspective of demons, because as a Christian one needs to be aware of how the enemy thinks and how they are going to attack you.Mere Christianity was a hard read, but I enjoyed knowing insight into Theology, something every Christian needs to know so that they can argue against skeptics and unbelievers.
Lewis pulls back the curtain and gives a glimpse into the realms of the spiritual battle for the souls of men. You follow the conspiracy of two demons assigned to take down their human "patient". Gripping and gut-wrenching as I as could see myself in the crosshairs... Lewis has a way of doing that.
Amazing. Awesome. Brilliant. At the end, I wanted to start all over again; I want to read it over and over. A "most reluctant convert," C.S. Lewis has written a book every person--theist, atheist or agnostic--should read.
One of my favorite insights was enjoying the present, not wallowing in past hurts or longing for reliving previous thrills, not yearning for future good or fearing the upcoming at the expense of the present blessings.
This book is definitely thought provoking. I could only ever read one chapter at a time because I literally had to stop and think about what I was reading. Anywho, interesting read and definitely makes you think twice about how and why you worship.
Mere Christianity is an awesome read. It takes the basic concepts of life and its relation to the Christian faith, and puts a unique and accessible twist to it. The Screwtape Letters is also an excellent read, putting into perspective many of the things Christians take for granted and abuse.
Mere Christianity was really good. I absolutely loved reading it! I struggled through Screwtape a little bit more for some reason, but I want to read it again and take more time with it so that I can understand it more.
This is a series of small chapters by CS Lewis. His explanations and insights should give strength and meaning to any Christian. This is the classic work by CS Lewis and is probably quoted more than most books in print.
This book started me moving forward in my new life in Christ back in the 70's. If an atheist could start a book trying to prove God is not real but then becomes a believer, well then his book is worth inspection.
I thought it was very interesting, and for some time i forgot this was fiction, give you another view point of the adversary's choices and temptations
Another wonderful work by C.S. Lewis offering insight and thought-provoking perspective on the nature of God and the devil.
Love reading C.S. Lewis. How can you not love someone named Clive? Saw the play based on his life earlier this year. Very good.
