https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77608.In_the_Best_Families
In the Best Families (1950) tells of Nero Wolfe's battle to the death with Arnold Zeck (his Professor Moriarty) in which the great detective goes underground--leaving Archie in the dark and in the lurch--to prepare for their final confrontation.This is the third and final volume of the so-called Arnold Zeck Trilogy.
The other two are And Be a Villain (1948) and The Second Confession (1949) It is a fine end to the series, and a satisfying adventure in itself.
These three books are among Stout's best.
If you are interested in Wolfe but have not read any of the books, the Arnold Zeck Trilogy is a fine place to begin.
Nero Wolfe avoids divorce cases like a plague, but this time it was only figuring out the source of the guy's income, so the detective decided to take a case; his bank account (poor state of it that is) helped with the decision.
Such people think nothing about killing anything that stands in their way, like Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin in this case.
This is a very unusual Nero Wolfe novel as the latter has to break his routine of the previous sixteen books completely.
I really cannot say anything at all to avoid spoilers, but the first time I read it I was in for a big surprise.
These episodes hinted that in some future book Zeck would play a leading role -- and now he does.It all begins when a lonely, wealthy and self-described "homely" woman comes to Wolfe's office wishing to discover the source of her husbands' new income.
Within hours of her visit, Wolfe answers his phone and Zeck warns them to "Lay off this case." Later that night, the client and her pet Doberman are found stabbed to death in the woods near her house.
When he arrives at the brownstone, Archie finds the front door ajar, Fritz and Theodore in confusion, and Wolfe gone.
Another wonderful entry in the series featuring great upheaval in the lives of all involved with Nero Wolfe. Great snarky remarks from Archie, and a central role for him. Highly recommended, these books always make me smile.
It has been several months since I listened to Michael Pritchard narrate one of the Nero Wolfe stories. I really missed listening to his voice.What a shock that Wolfe could walk out and disappear and leave Archie to establish a business of his own. For the details, sorry, you need to find out for yourself! This is one of the best of them.
I began this book a month back ( read a chapter and could not continue ) . Read it at a stretch over last couple of days. One of the best Nero wolfe mysteries by Rex stout. Wolfe escaping from his home for a few months, Archie as a free lancing detective , a gripping plot.... Need I say more ?
4.5*The final book involving Arnold Zeck. (view spoiler)[When, after ignoring another warning from Zeck, Archie discovers Wolfe's client's murdered body, he enters the strangest case of his career. Returning to the NY brownstone, he finds that Wolfe has disappeared and arrangements made for new jobs for Fritz and Theodore with the only message for Archie himself a command to not look for Wolfe. (hide spoiler)]It was nice to see a brief reappearance of Lily Rowan in this book.

The most fascinating part of the book is when Wolfe disappears, leaving Archie and the rest to fend for themselves.For Archie, there's the question of how to deal with feeling being abandoned by someone who was almost a father figure to him.
One thing that stands out in this book with Archie on his own is that Archie is, in many ways, as eccentric as Wolfe.
The adventures wouldn't make for interesting novels, but would make for a fun radio program.There's a great deal in the middle that will delight and fascinate Wolfe fans.The story suffers from one major defect and then defect is Arnold Zeck.
There are two plots, each related to the other: one involving criminal genius Arnold Zeck who has Wolfe so frightened?
that he abruptly leaves his beloved brownstone and disappears, leaving Archie with nothing but a note saying "Don't try to find me." The other is a more-or-less standard mystery involving a body discovered by Archie early in the book, and his phone call to Wolfe describing the circumstances in detail.
For most of the book the murder takes second place to the plot to bring down Zeck, even though Zeck is probably involved in it in some way.
The final installment of the Zeck trilogy, this is one of my favorite Nero Wolfe mysteries. Master criminal Arnold Zeck is Wolfe's counterpart to Sherlock Holmes' Moriarty. This book is unusual in that homebody Wolfe actually leaves home for almost five months to prepare for a showdown with Zeck. Archie Goodwin doesn't know where he is and has to carry on by himself. If you're familiar with the Sherlock Holmes canon, you'll notice parallels between this novel and Arthur Conan Doyle's "The Final Problem" and "The Empty House," which adds to the enjoyment.
This is the best out of the first 20 or so Nero Wolfe books, which are all good. Wolfe finally is forced to address a threat which has repeated itself several times previously, and the result is a story which has to deviate from the formula while still retaining all that is wonderful about Stout's creations.
Archie is given only one instruction: 'Do not look for me.'As I've mentioned before, Zeck is the Moriarty to Wolfe's Holmes--his evil counterpart.
But, as this is not the final Wolfe book, it is not all that long before Wolfe returns, ready to vanquish the one man who is his intellectual equal.Along the way, we get to see Archie adapt to a life without Wolfe, hanging out his own shingle and even grieving the loss of his employer (and friend).
In an interesting turn of events, Archie is himself offered an opportunity in the Zeck crime business, which leads to some interesting interactions and events.
She insists on absolute secrecy and discretion, but she wants Wolfe to find out the source of her much younger husband's flow of money, since she knows she has not been giving him any of late.Nero Wolfe is not inclined to take the case, and as he is tellling her this, she is writing him a $10,000 check.
And before Wolfe has lifted a finger to solve the case, Mrs. Rackham and her pet Doberman pinscher are murdered on the grounds of her estate.
My favorite Nero Wolfe book to date.
More Archie, less Wolfe.
If it had been the new book that I was reading in 1950, I might have even wondered if this was a way for Stout to finish off the hero, like Arthur Conan Doyle killed off Sherlock Holmes when he got tired of writing about him.
The departure from the norm was entertaining, Archie on his own was marvelous, the wisecracking was better than usual, and the battle of wits was suspenseful.
Just finished this, practically at the edge of my seat the entire time!
It's showdown time between Wolfe and Zeck.
Zeck's presence was seen in And Be A Villian, and The Second Confession.
Wolfe has known a showdown would be inevitable at some point, and had mentioned what would have to happen if the two ever at cross purposes.
I would highly recommend reading the previous two books where Zeck is mentioned, as it will help to have this background immensely.
There is an omnibus called Triple Zeck (that contains all three of the Zeck stories in on book.)
This is the finest Nero Wolfe book.
You might think to jump in with it first, and you can generally read the NW novels in any order because, like Bertie and Jeeves, nearly nothing changes even as the decades do.
However, you should absolutely not read this until you have at least Fer-de-lance, Some Buried Caesar, and A Second Confession under you belt first.
(And if you're in it for the long haul, perhaps some others of the early books ahead of Caesar.) You'll want to have the back story for this one, but even more importantly you'll need it to understand how extraordinary the events here are in the Wolfe universe.
This one was really different. Wolfe has to disappear because arch-villain Zeck is after him. Poor Archie is on his own for a few months, and although he makes out OK, he doesn't like it. Naturally ,it all works out in the end.
Nothing about this one fits the mold. The case is at once the most complex and the simplest of all the Nero Wolfe books. Wolfe must leave the comfort of his New York brownstone to confront a well-connected crime boss before another innocent person or Wolfe, himself, ends up dead.
One of the great ones. This one is particularly interesting for Nero Wolfe fans; Wolfe is only a peripheral character, Archie is the star.
Rex Stout. Nero Wolfe. Archie Goodwin. A little Fritz, a glimpse at Theodore. Who could ask for more?
The build-up to the murder is well done, leading to the saddest discovery in all the books, with the dying dog whimpering under Archie's window.
He has a flair." I have never really cared for Lily Rowan, but I think it was in this particular book that Rex Stout began re-defining her character, making her far less selfish and jealous.The actual operation against Zeck moves surprisingly fast.
(Spoiler)Wolfe makes it clear that he knew, the night of the murder, who the killer was.
He also makes it clear that he is far more angry on behalf of the second murder victim--Nobby, the dog.
Holmes had Moriarty, James Bond had Blofeld, Modesty Blaise had Gabriel...and even Nero Wolfe had Arnold Zeck.
This is blessedly Zeck's last bow, and I bet Stout had tons of fun writing it and turning the old brownstone upside down in the process.I don't remember reading this story before, except for one aspect which I won't mention here but which will amaze anyone who has read other books in the canon, so I must have read it at some point long ago.
Well-trained guard dogs are not by nature dangerous.This particular episode of Wolfe's and Archie's adventures has a very different feel to it that most others.
Apparently, I should have read certain books before this one.
In this installment, Nero disappears at a critical junction of solving the case of the wealthy wife who wants to investigate her husband.
This leads us to a complex tale with Archie in the spotlight.
The complexity of a novel can either enhance or detract from the plot.
And while I enjoyed the reflection on Archie, the novel seemed to lose momentum for a while.
But the sheer simplicity of the case makes up for the weakness.
How can a plot be complex and simple.
Read this one and see.
This one was highly unusual, in more ways than one, and this made it difficult to rate because it was sort of hard to know how to really compare it with a standard Wolfe story.
Technically I'm not sure you'd need to read them in order to make sense of what's going on in this book, but I would assume the setting would feel quite different while you were reading the book if you'd not already been introduced to the character and his previous actions (especially those that happened in the second part of the trilogy).
Okay, look.
Is this the best mystery plot in the Wolfe series?
No. The precipitating murder is pretty easy to guess (from the evidence, not just from genre-savviness).
But it's absolutely not a book any Stout fan can afford to miss.
Because this, THIS is the book in which Wolfe flees the brownstone and goes incommunicado, sending his orchids and Theodore away, telling Fritz to get a new job, and leaving Archie bereft.
This is the book in which Archie has to face an entirely new set of circumstances, guided by his own intelligence and experience alone, while Wolfe is on a secret and dangerous self-imposed mission.
I'm kind of sorry it came so early in the full series of Nero Wolfe books because I almost feel like the rest of them will be a letdown.
Watching how Archie deals with being on his own after Wolfe suddenly disappears was a treat and a pleasure.
Despite the fact that Archie always narrates the stories, this one felt like the entire book was more his story than Wolfe's.
I would love to see other books written with this kind of tension and focus on Archie.
You won't be sorry you did.
"In the Best of Families" is the third in a trio of loosely connected books involving Nero Wolfe's nemesis, Arnold Zeck, criminal extraordinaire.
Written with the same wit and verve as all the Nero Wolfe novels, this one departs from the ordinary, as Nero Wolfe leaves his reclusive lifestyle to tackle his Moriarty.
Although the writing and plot in this tale was top notch, I did not particularly care for this portrayal of Nero Wolfe.
Still, even a mediocre Nero Wolfe novel is better than 90% of the rest of mystery genre.
There's really no rhyme or reason to the order that I'm reading these...I'm picking them up as I find them at good prices.
That leads to me getting the stories out of order, sometimes.
This book probably wraps up an arc from which I've previously only read one story.
There's so much that's unusual about this book within the series that it's hard to describe without giving huge points away.
Let's just say that Archie's on his own for much of the book, and Wolfe, himself, is not at home!
It's a mad world, but it ends up being a great story.
This Nero Wolfe book is a departure from others in the series, as Wolfe finally encounters his arch-nemesis, crime boss Arnold Zeck.
An investigation into the murder of a wealthy woman who had hired Wolfe to investigate her husband's sudden easy access to money, interferes with Zeck's work.
Wolfe disappears for 5 months, leaving instructions to have his precious orchids relocated and to sell his house.
Archie sets up his own detective agency and life goes on without Nero Wolfe.
When Wolfe reappears in disguise, the final confrontation with Zeck takes place and then all returns to normal at the West 35th Street residence.
