https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18594462-the-forbidden-territory
In this case, unlike James Bond who had a license to kill, they have a learner's permit.The Forbidden Territory was Wheatley's first published novel (1933) but not his first written novel.
His heroes are essentially a trio consisting of French aristocrat Duke de Richleau, the Jewish financier Simon Aron, and wealthy American Rex Van Ryn. One must applaud Wheatley's decision to have such a diverse group yet on paper they all come out sounding rather British.
But it is basically good adventure tale and a popular one for its time.
Review: FORBIDDEN TERRITORY by Dennis WheatleyThe early 20th century was plentiful with prolific authors: Dennis Wheatley, Sax Rohmer, Edgar Rice Burroughs, and many more. Most hold in common intriguing characters, wildly adventurous plots, and writing that is easily accessible, even nearly a century later. I'm so glad to see Dennis Wheatley's work in new publication. At minimum, his novels provide scenic, adventuresome, heart-in-mouth escapism, a perfect comfortable evening's reading entertainment, and maybe, some food for thought too.
Perhaps I should have stocked up, but I didn't know how it was going to go, so I started with #1.What's interesting of course is the book was published in 1933, It predates James Bond (as mentioned above) but a lot of adventure writers, including much of the spy genre and masters of the craft like John Le carre or those who have taken it to extremes like Mark Millar.
The characters are debonair and knowing and certainly would fit in with Bond or his many imitators.
There are logistical reasons why it might make sense, but the book seems to downshift when focused on the less colorful character.
The Forbidden Territory features a pleasantly diverse group of adventurers hunting treasure and having to escape from early Stalinist Russia.
They enjoy lots of thrills and romance along the way.
I had previously been familiar with his Occult stories, but he wrote many straight adventure stories as well, and is in fact credited with being a big influence on Ian Fleming's iconic Bond character.
Wheatley never gained the popularity in the U.S. that his contemporaries Sax Rohmer and Leslie Charteris enjoyed, though this book reminded me more of the early Saint stories than anything else.
A cry for help from a friend in a coded letter sends two friends Duke de Richleau and Simon Aron on a dangerous adventure to the bleak landscape of Siberia.Although listed on my Kindle as Book 5 in the de Richleau series, this was in fact Dennis Wheatley first published novel in 1933.
I have read one of his books before and really enjoyed it, they are real boys own adventures and good fun and this was no exception.
No time is wasted in getting on with the adventure, there are plenty of perilous exploits, spies, treasure and a little romance thrown in too.
The Forbidden Territory, by Dennis Wheatley—The Prince of Thriller Writers—and published in 1933, is an interesting first novel by a writer that was a bestselling novelist from the ‘30s through the ‘60s.
For this reason, if no other, the books of Dennis Wheatley are worth reading.
The bulk of the story is taken up with Richleau’s attempts, along with other friends, of rescuing Rex Van Ryn. Forbidden takes a deeply critical, but not reactionary, view of the Soviet Union, but this does not get in the way of the story.
Although this was Wheatley's first published novel it shows that he was already a very accomplished author. It was not the first Wheatley book that I read, but it contained the Duc De Richleau, Rex and Simon, characters from several other of his novels, and the reason I chose to read it. At first I was a little disappointed that this was not an occult novel, but I soon got into it. It is actually a rip roaring adventure story for adults, with intricately described landscapes, complex plots and familiar characters.
This was not what I expected and really isn't my taste. However, for one who does like this era and the "genteel" man who adores the ladies, this book is for you. The author is classically talented with a unique ability to stroke his words. He has earned his literary stature with his distinctive descriptive manner and crisp story weaving.
A fascinating tale of derring-do, written in Mr Wheatley's crisp style... the Duke is especially ruthless
It is the year 1933 and the Duke DeRichleau enlists the aid of his friend Simon to help him in rescuing their friend Rex from a prison in Russia. As I read this book, it began to remind me of Ian Fleming's Bond novels, one problem after another that the Duke and his friends must overcome. I had to keep reminding myself that it was actually written in 1933, as it just seemed as if it was a newer book (and I marveled at how well Wheatley deliniated those time).I'm looking forward to reading further adventures of the Duke!
A fast moving adventure story dealing with a newly minted Soviet Russia. Daring prison escapes, treasure hunts, and plane chases. It's a charming read despite some fairly dated language and quite a bit of dubious morality. I'm glad this is back in print, and look forward to reading the sequel.
Brilliant. The night-before-the-execution scene is beautiful.
Dennis Wheatley's first effort is a great old school adventure.The new Kindle versions are censored. Pretty embarrassing.
There's the older, cultured, exiled Frenchman, the Duke de Richleau, a man who knows the world and can speak all the languages; there's the Jewish business Simon Aron, a clever man and passionate lover (who is a hero, though it wouldn't take much to tip this characterization over into Nazi propaganda); there's the bluff American athlete, Rex van Ryan, rich scion of American industry; and Richard Eaton, British something or other.
The Forbidden Territory was a best-seller, which probably owes more to that sense of idolizing the heroes rather than worrying about them.Only in the later half of the book does it actually become something of a traditional potboiler, with Rex, Simon, and the Duke imprisoned and the POV coming from the rather less impressive Richard Eaton.
It's probably in the nature of these things that the characters just happen to run into the right kind of people at the right time, so I didn't take the French princess, or the faithful servant whom the Duc knew in his youth, that seriously.The unabashed elitism of the characters was amusing (like in the other Wheatley book I've read this far).– We shall miss our Hoyos!i [when we're in the Soviet Union]– Not altogether I trust, de Richleau smiled.
Customs people are pretty troublesome about anything like that, I should think.– Not these, my friend.
Fun time capsule of 1930's adventure set in the Soviet Union prior to WW2.
This book was inspirational for authors like Ian Flemming that came along later to dominate the Spy-Fi genre in the 50's and 60's.Having read several of Wheatley's later books featuring the same quartet of characters, it was fun to see the original tale (which unlike Devil Rides Out and the other Black Magic books, has absolutely zero supernatural elements).
As usual, the Duke de Richleau was a spectacular character and stole the show when ever he was in a scene.While I enjoyed it, I wouldn't recommend Forbidden Territory to anyone unless they enjoyed Wheatley's Black Magic books or enjoyed classic espionage/thriller stories.
Cracking read!
I wasn't sure what to expect, wanting to extend the genres I read, I was thrilled to have won this book through the goodreads giveaway scheme, however it wasn't what I'd come to believe as a typical Dennis Wheatley novel .
I wrongly assumed all he wrote was horror but he wrote thrillers too among which is this one, his first published novel.Set in the early 1930s it follows 2 friends as they travel through the Soviet Union in search of their friend whose gone missing.

An ok adventure yarn, this time relying on pure Cold War paranoia rather than occult horror to establish bad guys. The heroes were generally sympathetic but the plot moved a bit slowly for a thriller. I'd pass on this one. *Disclaimer: I won a copy of this in a Good Reads first reads giveaway*
True story tellingYou could feel the wind in your hair as Stalin's men chased them across half of Russia. The snow was deep and cold.
One of many books from this book club and this author. Not sure when I finished this, but guessing 1975
Still works as a gripping thriller even if a bit outdated.
A decent thriller.
I enjoyed it! The Duke reminds me of a cross between James Bond and Sherlock Holmes. I bought the black magic collection next. Same guys. Good so far. :-)
