https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89322.Remembering_Laughter
"A few hours earlier they had all been grand people, she thought unhappily, grand people happy in each other's company, none of them with any ill-will or intension of wrong. Now they had succeeded in so tangling the threads of their lives that only misery could come of it." In the mid nineteen thirties the young Wallace Stegner, then English Instructor at the University of Utah, submitted this novella as his entry in a competition which he duly won and for which he was awarded $2,500.00 - a goo
"A few hours earlier they had all been grand people, she thought unhappily, grand people happy in each other's company, none of them with any ill-will or intension of wrong.
Now they had succeeded in so tangling the threads of their lives that only misery could come of it."
In the mid nineteen thirties the young Wallace Stegner, then English Instructor at the University of Utah, submitted this novella as his entry in a competition which he duly won and for which he was awarded $2,500.00 - a good start to an illustrious career.It is a deceptively simple story, and yet a bleak, bitter tale.
This was Wallace Stegner's literary debut. He wrote it in 1936 for a novelette contest conducted by Little, Brown & Co and won the $2500 prize. Very short (150 pages), it shows his early talent. He was 27 years old at the time, and the rest is history. Out of print for many years, it was re-published by Penguin in 1996. It's a sad melodrama based on a story his wife told him about two of her Aunts in Iowa. Everybody has to start somewhere, even Pulitzer Prize winners.
They got it for me all the way from the University of Idaho through inter-library loan.
It's a first edition cloth-bound jewel straight from 1937, with a spine so faded by sunlight that I can barely read the gold-stamped lettering.
They have that wonderful smell of old paper well cared for, dry and almost acrid, but in a pleasant way.
Nothing but a 1937 first edition will do.
There's just something about a 74-year-old volume that connects me with my literary hero and the excitement he must have felt at having his first novel in print.
When people speak of the work of Wallace Stegner, it is not this book to which they refer.
However, this slip of a story, written in 1937 for submission in a competition, is where the Stegner canon starts and serves as the kindest of introductions to an esteemed and deservedly-honored lion of American literature.In retrospect it seems so utterly predestined for me to have come across this volume at a local library sale during a rare visit with relatives in the Midwest.
Stegner could not have planned it any better, nor wished for a more propitious frame of mind than mine under such circumstances.
On the eve of destruction, Margaret makes a promise to herself: “She could never forgive them…neither her jealousy nor her religion would allow that.” Good old religion.
She has the power to contain in misery the two people who are trapped in her orbit, or release them through forgiveness.
He introduces themes that he explores further in later novels, like the special hell that ensues from choosing the wrong partner in marriage, and how the life we lead marks our bodies.
This was Stegner's first novel.
He'd read about Little, Brown requesting submissions for a novella.
He had previously published two short stories and he was very interested in the publisher request.
Little, Brown was impressed enough to publish it, but I have not read how it was received by the public.
"You'll write your one story many ways.
I don't mind - he is telling it in many interesting ways.The only reason I cannot give this 5 stars is because I feel I have to leave room for those books that will be truly stellar in my memory.
I grieved what their lives could have been, if only........ A tragic story filled with, "unspoken hoarded wrong" that infiltrates every fiber of the two women and affects the whole household. The only relief was from the relationship between man and boy, but even that could have been so much more. The writing is truly exquisite, and exquisitely felt by this reader.
My pick for our postal book group round 3. I loved it. Writing, characters, uneven timeline (I love a nonlinear storyline!) and just the interest of a first book by a well known/loved author all added up to an excellent read for me. Even though it was very dark, I believe it was liked by the other 6 who share in my group.
Boom! The electrical power snapped off. A transformer outside of our neighborhood had blown. We'd be awhile with no juice. So, by a lantern I read REMEMBERING LAUGHTER, my first Wallace Stegner title (his own debut). It was masterful and reminded me of Willa Cather with its agrarian Midwest setting and Edith Wharton's Ethan Frome in its themes of repressed emotions. Mr. Stegner, his widow recounts in this edition, wrote RL as a novella entered in a contest which he won. I'm going to try his later titles.
I maintain after this, the fourth Stegner book I've read, that he was one of the greatest American writers ever. This was his first novel, and very good.
Iowa farmpp 2,3: Margaret Stuart, a gaunt, angular old woman in black poplin, motionless, ...
Actually she was 47.A man in his early 20s doesn't yet have a perspective on age — 'gaunt old woman, great age ...
A 47-year old woman might look like she's suffered, but it's unlikely that she looks of 'great age' although she might look 60.The years of retribution take their toll on the three adults as well as on the innocent child, making them all miserable.
Maybe Stegner is making a case for divorce.
I have loved everything I have read of Wallace Stegner in the past and I loved this book, too. Stegner is a master of bittersweet stories. In Remembering Laughter, Stegner tells the terrible story of a husband and his wife and the wife's sister. It is a story of missteps and the resultant misery small missteps can create for a lifetime. Beautiful writing.
Alec Stuart and his wife Margaret invited her younger sister Elspeth to live in their home in Iowa.
Margaret was a very proper fashionable woman who got upset by her husband's drinking.
Their prosperous farm was owned by Alec who loved to joke and tell stories.
Elspeth was a lively young woman with a sense of fun.
As the months wore on, the feelings between Alec and his wife's sister grew into a strong attraction.
It was heartbreaking for Margaret to be betrayed by the two people she loved the most--her husband and her sister.This little novel was beautifully written.
This book had some very elegant prose and deftly created a mood befitting the sparseness and minimalism one might expect from the rural Iowa setting.
However, I simply did not buy the basic plot, or, more precisely, the character development of the two sisters (which creates/enables the plot).
Obviously, I know such things happen in real life often enough; truth is stranger than fiction, after all.
However, the author's specific portrayals of these two women seemed quite limited and even, strange as it may seem to say of fictional characters, mistaken -- a stereotypical male understanding of them.
"Throughout the latter part of the morning buggies kept turning in from the highway and wheeling up the quarter-mile of elm-arched drive to the farm -- surreys and democrat wagons, an occasional brougham, an even more occasional automobile whose brass caught the sunlight between the elms." So begins the arrival of funeral guests. And what follows is a truly heartbreaking novella of death, both literal and figurative. But primarily, the death of all that makes life worth living...caused by a refusal to take a single (though difficult) step toward healing. Crushing...

Remembering Laughter was Wallace Stegner's first book in 1937. It was long out of print until the 90s. It's a fine novel that reminds me a bit of Edith Wharton's Ethan Frome. Margaret and Alec Stuart are a married couple in Iowa. He's a prosperous farmer. She looks the other way as Alec starts drinking. Margaret's sister Elspeth visits. Margaret tries to play matchmaker, but Alec finds her attractive. And so on.
Enjoyed this little novelette. It was interesting to read this, Stegner's first novel, shortly after finishing Crossing to Safety, Stegner's final novel (with nearly a 50 year gap between the two). At some moments it seems like an entirely different author; at others the commonalities between the young and the old Stegner are really striking. I look forward to reading more Stegner, filling in the gap between the two I've read to this point.
The story is tangled up in treason and guilt and misery.
In other ways I thought of The Scarlet Letter.
Stegner employs 'puritan' to picture a stern and bitter mindset.
It is a heavy and compelling story that dogged my thoughts.
Even in the mire, it managed to make me cackle with laughter a few times.Take away the literary tropes and outlier vocabulary [e.g. monody, catalepsis], add in erotic details, and it could've been a bodice-ripping romance.
My chief problem with Remembering Laughter:But [man] and [woman] had lost their immortal souls, and a lifetime of expiation could never make their peace with a stern God.
Review to follow
I would be hard-pressed to give a Stegner book anything less than 4 stars as he was a brilliant writer.
This was his first book, and all the hallmarks of his later books are there, waiting to be discovered.
That's why it's a 4, not a 5, star book.
Stegner was still honing his craft.
There's the sparse writing, so evocative of life on the Plains.
I'll admit that I knew pretty early in the book what was going to happen, and why (maybe it would have been more of a shock in 1937), but that didn't diminish my appreciation for the story and the writing.
Thus began a magnificent career for this teacher and chronicler of the West."Remembering Laughter," though brief and telling a very simple story, is no mere footnote, is not an afterthought for the completist who loved novels such as "All the Little Live Things" or the Pulitzer-winning "Angle of Repose" (my favorites).
The growing pains are few, mere inconveniences.The early part of the novella tells of Elspeth joining her older sister, Margaret, and Margaret's husband, Alec, on their Iowa farm.
As Elspeth adjusts to the people and the land and the animals, she and Alec grow closer, and soon, too close.
For such a brief work, "Remembering Laughter" is remarkably unhurried.
Stegner stories are like a favorite sweater, kind of worn, but comfy and comforting and wonderful.
This is an early novella by the author, well, he had already written Big Rock Candy Mountain.
But it was the afterward by his wife, Mary that really got me.
It was the same week that they found out that Mary was pregnant.
These facts sent me directly into memories of Crossing To Safety where Stegner tells an almost identical story.
No wonder his stories are so vivid, he picked them directly out of real life.Did I mention I love this author?
Being a big fan of words, I never particularly enjoy using mine to blast someone else's creative attempts, but I would be lying to say I felt anything but consistent loathing for this book and Stegner's telling vs.
The premise of the story was unoriginal and telegraphed from page two, but I kept reading, thinking Stegner was going to redeem his story, hoping he was going to allow his characters some semblance of redemption.
The three protagonists were so pathetic so as to be cumbersome and boring, and he continued to tell me EVERYTHING, instead of letting his characters show me.
Instead of letting his characters grow.
Instead of letting any semblance of action naturally unfold.
For the first time in years (probably about eight of 'em, to be precise), I picked up a book and read the entire thing in one day.
Hell, it's been years since I've been able to do that with a magazine article...Remembering Laughter is Wallace Stegner's first published work and I found it to be fabulous.
None of the characters in this novel strike a particularly good balance between these competing desires and aspirations, but what they settle on is tragically human.
Sad, sad, sad but oh so good.
Not as great as his later works, though his writing is excellent. The story is sad and not very complex. A short and easy read. The thing I enjoyed most about this was the afterward, written by Stegner's wife, describing their early married life and his efforts to become a writer. She explains how Stenger got the inspiration for this novella, entered it into a contest and won. In celebration, they threw a party with their other young literary-minded friends and that very night she ended up giving birth to their son.
Maintains a heavy atmosphere throughout. In ways, it felt like a simpler version of Smiley's "A Thousand Acres", overwhelming weight tied to the loneliness of the farm. The story was not as complex as Smiley's. Another review mentioned the colors being drawn out of the characters, and that was true, you end up in a gray world. The "afterwards" could have been much more compelling if more lengthy. Overall, the writing was great to listen to, the mood was depressing, and the story was OK but not great.
This book is full of sadness and sorrow. The power of betrayal, the power of infidelity, the depth of lies, and the inability to forgive, for years and years. And the laughter is a far memory, since it is not found in the household for years. As always with Stegner, the prose is beautiful, but this is one of his earlier novels and he has better and stronger ones. It is a 3.5 stars and worth reading, especially for Stegner's fans.
This is a very sad tale of Iowa, in which Alec and Margaret Stuart welcome Margaret’s 22-year-old sister, Elspeth to their farm. Margaret is a proper, conservative soul. Alec is much more lively, humorous, earthy, but is also more driven by his impulses. Alec and Elspeth do the nasty, which produces a child. All goes to hell and the sisters wind up living lives of withered desperation. Not a happy tale, but one that is beautifully told.
Building, slow, inevitable, and Iowa farms. Secrets and prisons of our own making. (Oh, be careful with your hearts.)Do what you have to to be happy in this life, my children. There is so much beauty. - Francesca from Bridges of Madison County
