https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1202.Freakonomics
I say it was interesting because I started liking it (a lot) when I first read it, as time passed I liked it less and less.
In that way I call it a candy book, tastes good at first but leaves you worse off for reading it.
This book didn't offer any of that, only a titillating glimpse of the economics.
As mind candy this book was quite good.
However, as I learn more about economics I realize how shallow the book in fact was.
And so I think some of my most ridiculous papers actually fall in the high-fashion category."
Yes, zero stars.There is one segment of this book that reports use of a dataset I know very well -- the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) data.
From what details they put into the book, it's fairly clear that the researchers did not research the reliability of the data elements they chose to use from FARS.
In particular, their analysis rests on the ability to identify uninjured children in vehicles that were involved in fatal crashes.
FARS has data elements for this, but the reliability of the data in those data elements is suspect at best.
Sure, this book was a compelling read that offered us all some great amo for cocktail party conversation.
But ultimately I think most of what Leavitt claims is crap.
He dodges accoutability with the disclaimer about his book NOT being a scholarly work, but then goes on to drop statistics, theories and expert opinions.
These assertions laid, he doesn't provide readers with enough information to critically examine his perspectives.Ultimately I have a problem with the unquestioned, unaccoutable role of the public intellectual.
Leavitt dances around with his PhD on his sleeve, but is never subject to peer review or any sort of academic criticism.
In fact, he's showing you what interesting things you can discover when you apply statistical analysis to problems where you wouldn't normally think of using it.
He came to the conclusion that the single most important factor, by far, was the ready availability of abortion that started to come in after Roe v Wade.
That's how you're supposed to do science.The clincher, at least as far as I was concerned, was the fact that crime statistics peaked at different points in different states, the peaks correlating very well with the dates when each state started making abortion available.
Jesus H Tittyfucking Christ on a bike!
Could these two tossers be any more smarmy and self indulgent?
This book is much like the Emperor's New Clothes, people are so scared about being left out if they don't like or understand it because some sandal wearing hippy in the Guardian said it's 'This year's Das Capital' or some such bollocks that they feel compelled to join some sort of unspoken club where they all jizz themselves silly over a book that effectively is 300+ pages of pure condescension.Only buy this book if a facist regime ever seizes control of your country and instigates a book burning policy.
Interesting enough, but the exponential amount of data made it hard to remember what the initial claims of the economist were instead of reinforcing them, strangely!
It still amazes me that the way to reduce crime seems to be the legalization of abortion.
I did not expect that, but it does make quite a lot of sense and I’m all for women having control over their own bodies and futures, of course.
Sidenote: I despised the author’s arbitrary uses of female and male pronouns.
Like, a teacher is a SHE and then an architect a HE?
That certainly didn’t gain my respect.
Well,this is the most terrible book I have ever seen,it was too terrible to read.It’s so terrible th
Levitt is something of an economist but more like a social scientist using the tools of Microeconomics applied to other fields that happen to catch his interest (often having something to do with cheating, corruption, crime, etc.).
A lot of the Political Science field concerned with both voter behavior and how legislatures work is now pretty formalized as well, and, I, for one, think this is a good thing.
Actually, I am one of the latter, but I, at least, see the value in having a formalized language to work with.As for the book itself, there's some maybe-controversial things in there like Levitt did some work that showed that the legalization of abortion in the U.S.
I assumed Freakonomics would be a book that used statistics to debunk various societal hysterias and fearmongering in a semi-humorous way.
I quickly realized what I was in for when early in the book when the authors gave their background as Harvard Jews and profiled a guy that infiltrated the KKK for the ADL.
The only surprise was they used statistics to show you are much more likely to die from an automobile or a swimming pool than a gun.
This book would probably appeal to upper middle class liberals who like to consider themselves clever and politically astute from their isolated armchairs.
For me Freakonomics was a big load of garbage.
The most interesting part of this book was the introduction.
Sad, but true.Four stars for presentation.
The prose is nearly invisible, which I suppose in this genre is preferable to the alternative.
And the content is mildly interesting, in a "Huh. Wouldja look at that" sort of way, as though you saw a duck waddling through your back yard with jam on its head.But insofar as it's meant to be the vehicle for a larger framework for viewing the world, this book is old news.
You mean shit's connected in weird, roundabout ways?
My head...is spinning.Read some good poetry, you hipster fucks.
مبدئيا هناك خدعة في عنوان الكتابفالكتاب ليس في الاقتصاد و لكن في علم الاجتماع و لأن المؤلف رجل إقتصاد و لأن الاقتصاد هو أحد فروع علم االإجتماع فقد استخدم ما تعلمه في تحليل بعض الظواهر الاجتماعية بأدوات إقتصادية.مجموعة من المواضيع بعضها شيق جدا و بعضها ممل أو مغرق في المحلية لدرجة لا تجعلنا نتفاعل معه. ما هي الأشياء المشتركة بين معلمى المدارس و مصارعى السومو  يبدو سؤالا ساذجا و لكن الإجابة سهلة.هي أسئلة من نوعية ما وجه الشبه بين البطيخ و الموز و تأتى الإجابة بأن كل منهما لا يصلح كعصير برتقال.إجاب
يبدو سؤالا ساذجا و لكن الإجابة سهلة.هي أسئلة من نوعية ما وجه الشبه بين البطيخ و الموز و تأتى الإجابة بأن كل منهما لا يصلح كعصير برتقال.إجابة السؤال اللوذعى هنا هي أن معلمى المدارس و مصارعى السومو كل منهما يغش في النتائج و ليس هذا هو المقصود بل المقصود هو أنه يمكن كشف هذا الغش بنفس الطريقة و هي طريقة حسابية إحصائية طورها المؤلف و طبقها على أمثلة بالكتاب.من الحكايات الطريفة حكاية عن موظف كان يحضر معه خبز الإفطار و بعض الجبن ليفطر هو و زملاء العمل كل يوم و تطور الموضوع حتى صار يحضر معه الإفطار لكل الشركة ثم استقال و أصبح المسئول عن توريد الخبز لبعض كبرى الشركات حتى أنه كان يوزع حوالى ثمانية آلاف رغيف يوميا.سؤال أخر لوذعى: كيف تتشابه جمعية الكوكلوس كلان مع الوسطاء العقاريين 
All it takes is a new way of looking.(c)Q:“Experts”—from criminologists to real-estate agents-use their informational advantage to serve their own agenda.
It may sometimes feel as if we are peering at the world through a straw or even staring into a funhouse mirror; but the idea is to look at many different scenarios and examine them in a way they have rarely been examined....Steven Levitt may not fully believe in himself, but he does believe in this: teachers and criminals and real-estate agents may lie, and politicians, and even CIA analysts.
Maybe he’s going to be one of those people who’s so talented he doesn’t need one.He’ll take a question and he’ll just answer it, and it’ll be fine.”(c)Q:There are three basic flavors of incentive: economic, social, and moral.
The "experts are evil, have agendas, will trick you" talk got old real fast, especially when points are later being backed up with experts research.
An expert must be bold if he hopes to alchemise (?) his homespun theory into conventional wisdom." This is often how I perceived the book to be written, very simplified, without enough nuance or room for possible explanations - only one right answer.
I didn't like how the book was written, how the topics where dealt with, and had a hard time taking anything seriously after all of the self-admiration and the repeated "all experts have agendas (except for us)" talk in every chapter.
Yeah, this isn't 'rogue economics'. This is sociology. It's not a new discipline. And this is really spurious sociology that wouldn't pass muster in academia, so Levitt published it for public consumption.
I found this audiobook unbearable. I turned it off halfway through and listened to the public radio pledge drive instead.
Everything I hate about popular science - alternating between over-simplified, patronising, naive or simply annoying, but worst of all, blatantly refusing to take account of the political and social implications of its findings, and being proud of it.
Verbose, repetitive, contradictory: a book of 200-pages that could be condensed to 3-5 pages.
Titles that vary from scintillating to insulting, yet are followed by a chapter that doesn't support the title bar.
Interpretations and hypotheses are drawn from data that could still be interpreted in multiple ways.The book claims that it will link the unexpected, but frankly, links the obvious, with many "well duh" moments.Needless generations of lists that help bulk out the book, but provide little further benefit for study.Each chapter begins with unnecessary aggrandisement of the author for the statistician, that jars the flow of the book.Overall, a good demonstration of why "social sciences" are in no way close to being "science", and instead should be termed social philosophy.
I went all Fahrenheit 451 on this one.
here's why:"Women's rights advocates...
have hyped the incidence of sexual assault, claiming that one in three American women will in her lifetime be a victim of rape or attempted rape.
And to use it to glibly accuse "women's rights advocates" of somehow manipulating a kowtowed public is incredibly obnoxious.
While I'd guess that Levitt might be right more often than wrong, it's not worth his smug, self-satisfied style.
This is an awful book, yes I read the whole thing, like bitter medicine to a toddler, and had to see what the fuss was about.This Amazon review nails it.
How about consumers don't just read a real estate listings but check a place out before making the biggest purchase of their lives, one could argue there's secret speak in every industry.
The second half of the book is blog posts from their blog more atrocious reading from these ranting lunatics.
There's no appeal to science, Levitt is throwing a lot of his own opinion, and making wild estimations and bringing up even wilder conclusions.
I tried so very hard to finish reading this book full of BS facts but eventually got so tired of hearing things that just are not true but the author "claims" to be fact, that I quit reading it.
I can recall that many of the data and ideas presented about crime statistics and correlations were not accurate.
I knew that the correlations were no more then the Authors conclusion based on one view of statistical data use.
I know from experience and studies that some of the ideas he presented as "fact" were not fact but more of an opinion that can be easily concluded when someone does not look at the entire data of violent crimes.
Honestly not something I would pick up if it wasn't for school. I didn't enjoy this book. It dragged on where it didn't need to and left me in the dust at times. Over all, don't read it unless you have to.
He does this all through examining statistics and data, trying to find facts to back up various assertions rather than relying on conventional wisdom.The Good:As a person who is sick of the inability of most people to have a rational discourse on any even vaguely politicized topic, and a self-proclaimed skeptic, it’s nice to read anyone who endorses looking at hard data to make judgments about possibly controversial issues.
Crime, in point of fact, seems to be Levitt’s greatest interest, and I wonder if he might not have been better served by writing an entire book on the relationship between economics and crime, as opposed to trying to touch on a number of different subjects that are all largely unrelated.
Freakonomics explores the hidden side of everything. If morality describes the ideal world, then economics describes the actual world. Further, Freakonomics studies incentives and how different people in different professions respond. Some of the case studies include bagel salesmen, sumo wrestlers, public school teachers, crack cocaine dealers and parents. This is a smart, fun book; but it's not for everyone. Through a high nerd prospective, the authors deliver a slide rule and pocket protector observation of some controversial subjects.
In addition to allowing 1/2 stars, Goodreads really needs an "abandoned book" shelf.I had to abandon ship on this one, I guess I'm too liberal/free thinking/whateveryoucallit to think that teacher's unions are bad, and if only poor black women could get abortions we'd be safer after dark. I didn't stick around for the rest.
As the old joke goes, the questions in economics exams are the same every year; only the answers change.(re-reading in prep for the super-freaks)
complete bollocks, un-referenced 'studies' being used to back up their meandering and un thought out claims. should've been able to tell by the cover what type of 'book' this was.
The demonstration of critical thinking is good on a superficial level.
Even worse is the impression given that the background research is astonishingly thorough and accurate.
I love that they promote the ideas of critical thinking.
I love that they promote the idea of thorough research and questioning the status quo.
I love that they promote use of numbers and statistics to explore ideas in an attempt to find the truth.
But I wish that they were providing as good of a demonstration of the principles as they claim to be.Their conclusions are then presented as irrefutable, as if they are a magic bullet of the truth, rather than a heartfelt (presumably) effort at finding truth, subject to revision based on refined thought or background research.
I could not finish this book.
It made me cringe twice on each of the hundred odd pages that I did force myself to read.Would I recommend this book to you?
If you don't know how people use statistics to detect fraud, go ahead and read this book.
On the other hand, if you feel strongly about the difference between correlation and causality and already know what, say, Benford's law is, spare yourself the horror.
You will find yourself reaching for the wall (to bang your head on) by page 10.Also, the title is a bit misleading.
This book is NOT about economics.
The apt name would have been F**konomics, for the book hovers around the passing of abortion bill in USA. How can somebody write a book of 200 pages out of nothing is a mystery to me. What intrigues me more is that many newspapers had wrote great things about this book, a perfect case of hype creating a best seller. All gas no substance. And nothing to do with economics rather than some stupid black-white demographics and some obvious facts. Thank God, I'm through with this.
