https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36635926-the-fall-of-the-dynasties
Omigod, did this book take a long time to get through.
It was disheartening to say the least.Evenings went like this:"I should finish this book...or...OR...I could stare at dresses on a fashion blog for three hours.""I should finish this book...or...OR...I could look up the history of these tiaras they mention in passing."Part of the problem is the author sometimes wrote such awkward sentences that I had to rewrite them in my head before I could continue.
It was like reading an entire book of extraneous details that vaguely glanced over the big picture.
Phenomenal- one of the best books I've read, but you have to like history. It provides an incredibly useful (and fascinating) foundation for understanding the causes leading up to World War I. The author very clearly demonstrates how much the war was a turning point for several of the world's major empires, and how life was irreversibly changed forever. The book is slightly outdated in some very minor respects, but otherwise the author is extremely lucid and compelling.
How can one author summarize the whole world before and after the Great War to show how it changed?
Now I am pleasantly surprised as I finished on this day of remembrance.
He highlights the similarities and the changes, the cost, the pain, and the suffering without judging any one side.
The curious mind who wants to understand a general framework of events in the Great War, must not pass on this book.
She or he should grab it and finish it without being afraid of its mission.
Since this is a great masterpiece of scholarly research and compassionate reporting.
It gets a bit bogged down t times but remains interesting on the whole.
Except for the endless referring back to his own time.
His constant references to Khrushchev and 'current times' were jarring.
He mentions several times that "our grandfathers would have seen" or "would have understood this to be".
My grandfather was born in 1928.
He would not have seen or understood.
It really kept messing with the flow.It's really an excellent work of scholarship for it's time & with some updating would be an excellent work now as well.
A high-level history of the WWI era.
Very well done, and the perfect example of what i find so wonderful about history: one can tell the story of an entire planet, or the story of a single event, or even the story of a single human, in the same number of words...
a fascinating read.
This is an old-fashioned top-down history about the fall of the ruling dynasties of the Austro-Hungarian (Habsburg), German (Hohenzollern), Russian (Romanov), and Ottoman Empires from the years just before, during, and after World War One. Edmond Taylor, a long-time foreign correspondent, tells the story from a journalists viewpoint, and is not afraid to give his opinion on the characters and events. I would recommend this to anyone interested in the period, and who enjoys a quick read.
This is a great story of the long-term trends that led to war, revolution and the dissolution of the great empires that ruled most of Europe for centuries: Russia, Austria-Hungary, the Ottomans and Germany (a latecomer but the most powerful of all).
I give the book 4 starts in spite of being very readable and well informed, because I was offended by the author’s assertion that there is no need to feel any pity for any Romanov, because the dynasty brought Nemesis upon itself and because many other families where also destroyed by Revolution and civil war.
Taylor wrote to an audience that had lived through World War II, and so many of his observations are focused on how the events of World War I would lead to World War II and the Cold War. Taylor focuses on the ends of the Romanov (Russia), Hapsburg (Austria-Hungary), Hohenzollern (Germany) Dynasties and the Ottoman Empire.
It felt uneven, with the Romanov and Hohenzollern Dynasties getting lion's share of the book.
In the end, it's a decent explanation, but much better books have been written since 1963 about these events.
This is an excellent book, giving a "human" view of the ruling houses of Europe just prior to World War I, even including the Turkish sultan, who so often gets left out of things.
In fact, Edmund Taylor was born in 1908, and experienced the aftermath of World War I as a young man, so that he writes almost with nostalgia about an age that he didn't quite experience--though he grew up in Missouri, and not in a palace.
However much Taylor regrets the chaos that followed World War I, he is honest enough to hold the "Dynasties" accountable for their fate.
Before World War I, the Habsburgs, the Hohenzollerns, Ottomans, and Romanovs ruled the Austro-Hungarian, German, Turk, and Russian empires respectively just as they had for centuries. Due mainly to their own ineptitude in failing to avoid it, the War ended their dynasties.Taylor describes exactly how it all happened in lucid, often acerbic, English that saves what might otherwise have been too long of a slog.
This book is very detailed with facts and figures but never forgets the human element that shapes history.
Taylor often takes a narrative style in the book and focuses on the personal motives and schemes of influential individuals.
You really understand the desperation of the leaders of Europe's powers as they trudge, unwillingly, into the Great War.As another reviewer mentioned, the book is a bit outdated now but still has pages full of useful information.
A basic understanding of the time period is certainly useful before reading but not necessary because it is so enthralling you will just continue reading.An understanding of WW1 requires an understanding of the events leading up to it and this book provides that.
Parts of this book are excellent, particularly the opening chapters on each of the four dynasties.
Later on the book tends to drag.
The author has the unfortunate habit of a rather "cutesy" intro to several topics, hinting that he just thought the reader might like to know this.
The information on the Hohenzollerns and the Habsburgs is the most entertaining, while the self-inflicted calamity of the Russian Revolution on Russia and the Tsar is tragic.
The blindness of the "autocrat" and his wife makes one cringe, even though Russia's efforts were important to the Allied success in the war.
The fourth dynasty discussed is that of the Ottomans (Osmanlis).
Why did World War I start? The Ottoman Empire was falling apart, on its last legs. The Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Russian Empire eagerly anticipated gobbling up the bits and pieces, not realizing that their empires too were rotting from within. The newly unified Germans longed to expand. Ethnic minorities, long held under the thumbs of distant emperors, dreamed of independence. It’s a complicated story’ each region has its own unique characteristics. Taylor tackles it all, telling a long, complex story systematically. I learned a lot. But it was long. I’m glad I read it and I’m glad it’s over.
This book is over 50 years old but it is not dated at all.
Although new and amazing scholarship has been developed since its publication, it can still be safelly read as a great introduction as any to the causes of the I World War and the downfall of the European dynasties.
I believe it could be read before two amazing books about the period, "The Sleepwalkers", by Chrispopher Clark, on the causes of the I WW; and "A People's Tragedy", by Orlando Figes, on the Russian Revolution.
The three books togheter make you understand why the first decades of the 20th Century would have such deep consequences for the history of humankind.
I was a bit put-off by the author's penchant for snappy write-offs of each character. But he does convey the chaos of chance and incompetence that consistently moved Europe in the worst possible direction. Very much written with the benefit of hindsight. Now superceded by Christopher Clark's Sleepwalkers.
Everything you ever wanted to know .......about the fall of dynastic autocracy in Europe. The Book deals with the personalities as well as the events before, during and after WWI. Written in the 1960s, it's a decent read (despite the author's clumsy style of segues.) It's certainly more comprehensive in the people coverage than any book about WWI I have read.
It was enlightening to see how so many different events all flowed together to create the last glory days of empires before WWI and the wholesale destruction of that old world by not only the war, but the rise of Bolshevism/Leninism which turned Europe into a seething mass of uprisings, civil war, and nationalism.
كتاب متميز جدا عن سقوط وانهيار وبعث الاستبداد ، قصة القادة الذين لا يبصرون مع الجماهير ، قصة الأخطاء القديمة التي لاتنسى ، قصة الثورات التي تؤدي إلى الحروب والحروب التي تؤدي إلى الثورات ! " سقوط الأسر الحاكمة " ل "إدموند تيلور " كتاب عن أيام لن تغيب عن ذاكرة الشعوب الثائرة !
This book documents the political changes in Eurasia that took place before, during and after World War I, primarily the collapse of four ruling dynasties:• The Prussian Hohenzollern dynasty in Germany• The Hapsburg dynasty in Austria-Hungary• The Romanov dynasty in Russia• The Ottoman sultanateAll of these dynasties had lasted for centuries, all of them were in existence at the outbreak of war in 1914, and none of them were in existence after 1922. In addition to the details of each dynasty’s i
For example, in discussing the truly byzantine organization of the sultan’s harem, he referred to “the Byzantine talent for making even luxury as complicated as possible.” Furthermore, he had the following assessment of the 1878 Congress of Berlin that resolved a conflict between Russia and Britain over the how Treaty of San Stefano redrew the map of the Balkan peninsula:“Once again the old world diplomacy displayed its genius for creating the irreparable while postponing the inevitable.”I guess it’s a bit obvious that Mr. Taylor has a rather low opinion of these increasingly sclerotic dynasties.I have the following observations about this book:•	Mr. Taylor prefers to use Anglicized names.
This is an advanced placement book about how the Hapsbergs, the Hohenzollerns, and the Romanovs, the dynasties of Austria-Hungry, Germany and Russia respectively, after making a mess of the world, became extinct.
(Speaking of long sentences)The author shows how their fall paved the way for populism and revolution and the rise of Hitler, Mussolini, and Stalin.
The reader needs to have a pretty good handle on the events before nWWI and the aftermath to appreciate this book.
One comes away thinking that the rise of authoritarian governments leading to world war and its aftermath can happen again as it did in WWII.
Just finished The Fall of the Dynasties: The Collapse of the Old Order, 1905-1922 by Edmond Taylor, an in depth look at the events and conditions leading up to WW1 and its aftermath. A very dense book but a joy to a history need. This has been my nightstand book for the last few months and I admit there were times it aided me falling to sleep. The book opens withe assassination of Arch Duke Ferdinand and actually explains why this was the cause of WW1. Along the way you see the demise of four ru
Just finished The Fall of the Dynasties: The Collapse of the Old Order, 1905-1922	 by Edmond Taylor, an in depth look at the events and conditions leading up to WW1 and its aftermath.
A very dense book but a joy to a history need.
This has been my nightstand book for the last few months and I admit there were times it aided me falling to sleep.
The impact to world order is still relevant today.
I was particularly interested in the collapse of the Romanov’s in Russia and the spread of communism.
It was great fun reading this European history book while touring Switzerland.
Unfortunately (or fortunately), the actual reading of the book was quite boring and I had to either fight jet lag or use it to overcome middle of the night wide awake moments.I'm really glad I finished it because it taught me how little I actually know about this period in history.
That being said, it wasn't a fun read and was written many years ago, so I wouldn't use it as the primary source for this knowledge.
I ended up with it just from an Amazon sale and my unwillingness to spend the time to find a better source.
An excellent, well researched and presented history of the fall of dynastic Europe from the early 1900's through the 1920s.
The author is able to creatively relate history in an easy to read manner.
Many of the details occur through the first wold war, but the author stays on topic instead of adding unrelated additional information like many historians are want to do.
The author is not trying to show off their immense knowledge and understanding of history; he is presenting the facts relating to the subject.
Having read a lot of history, this is very refreshing.
While it may seem excessively drawn-out to the layman, and is not current in the light of later scholarship, Taylor's work is a readable overview of the maneuvers, social turbulence, and international chicanery that preceded and followed World War I. Unlike so many other histories, it doesn't focus on the well-known rivalries between Germany, Austria, Russia, France, and Great Britain. It also goes into the plight of "the sick man of Europe," the Ottoman Empire, whose progressive disintegration in the Balkans did so much to fuel these rivalries.

Imperial Collapse into Totalitarianism Although it was written decades ago, this book has great value in demonstrating how the failures of the political and cultural imperialism of the 19th and early 20th century bled into the totalitarian regimes of subsequent decades. Focusing on Germany, Austria-Hungary and Russia, with some side commentary on the Ottoman Empire, the author delivers a readable account of the years around World War I, packed with interesting anecdotes and diverse insights into the transformative events of that period.
Considering this hundred year anniversary period - WWI and the fall of the Hohenzollerns, Habsburgs, and Romanovs - I found this book to be a timely and most informative read, especially in its juxtaposition of these centuries-old dynasties. And I am continually fascinated by the intersection of Queen Victoria's grandchildren in bringing about the destruction of much of western Europe.
This is a very readable historical work of events taken place in the last century that will continue, no doubt, to reflect our own.This is a very readable historical work relating diplomatic, political and social events of the last century that will continue, no doubt, to reflect onto our own reality in the post Brexit Europe of the 21st century.
Excellent synthesis of the end of an era. Analyses of WWI all too often become myopic in their focus on the Western Front. This book has a distinct eastern orientation in its consideration of the passing away of the ancien regime of Central and Eastern Europe. A welcome addition to any library of 20th Century history.
Fascinating read!Gives an closer (it was written two decades after the end of the Second World War) view of how the OlD Wirld destroyed itself. For those inter sites in how Europe and western civilization came to its present state, this would be a good place to start.
