https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20893314-a-brief-history-of-seven-killings
there were superficial things i had picked up on by reading other books, but this is such a big fat immersion into the time and place that is working really hard to paint a broad picture of three decades of the jamaican experience, and is so successful at it, that even if you are like me and this is all new information, and you are swimming in acronyms: jlp, pnp, cia, you will not be lost, even with the "thrown into the deep end" beginning.and, yeah, the hook for the american readership is that one of this book's touchpoints is the 1976 assassination attempt on bob marley, called here only "the singer," but that's far from its most interesting story, and not just because of my sleepy indifference to reggae.
However Marlon James' A Brief History of Seven Killings is more than just a wild ride, it's a brutal masterpiece that deserves its place as one of the best books of this decade so far.
James weaves a Dickensian plot around Jamaican history and culture.
While this is essentially a very different novel it still harks back to and is possibly in the same league as these literary greats.A Brief History of Seven Killings is never an easy read.
A Brief History of Seven Killings is a great novel.
I am rationing myself, I don't want this to end too soon...btw The reason I do updates in the review box is because regular updates don't save and I want to be able to reread one day how I experienced the book as I read it, not just with hindsight._______Previous update (view spoiler)[ I want to tell everyone to get the audio book just to listen to this woman's stream-of-consciousness monologue.
(hide spoiler)]_______Change from hardback to audio (view spoiler)[ I started to read the hardback and also listen to the book.
Watching the true story of the politics and events surrounding the attempted assassination on Bob Marley involving the CIA, made this book, even in retrospect, really come alive.
And the hope is that you want to know more and would like to urge the author to write another book about...
(view spoiler)[If you are thinking of reading this book, or have read it and would like to know about the people and the events the book is based on, then read this from the London Review of Books, Goings on in the Tivoli Gardens.
Marlon James takes us through an insanely violent roller coaster ride where various actors in the drama surrounding the house invasion and assassination attempt on Reggae Uberstar Bob Marley's Kingston, Jamaica house in December 1976 tell the story in a series of Faulkneresque first person dialogs.
How much of this is factual, I do not know, but based on the fact that James had a team of researchers and took four years to write the novel as well as the fact that the story does seem plausible if simultaneously shocking and heinous.
First of all, half of its 683 pages are written in patois, the Jamaican dialect which at the beginning it is quite difficult to grasp.
Then the flow goes all over the place which makes the book damn beautiful and hard in the same time.
The book tries to picture three decades of the jamaican experience which include government conspiracies, gang movements, CIA involvement in the country.
Although the book is about politics, CIA, murder, drugs it is not very far paced until the last 250 pages which fly easily.
Do not read this book if you do not like violence and cuss words as it is full of both.
I’ve been reading this book for an entire year, and it’s not been easy.
I made myself get to the end, and whilst I can say that I didn’t entirely enjoy the experience, I do appreciate James’ narrative style.
The way he writes reflects his characters.
He writes in a different style for each one, and it’s superb: he brings their essence alive, who they are and what they sound like.
I think it’s wonderful that this has been written like this, but, still, that doesn’t make the process easier for me, personally, to read.
I have found a review of someone who can do it very well (don't know her cultural background), but if you want an idea of what it sounds like, check out this review by Nicole: Jamaican Patois in action.Remember the violence so brutal and the lovin' so sweet it will make you diabetic just reading about it?
I get that Marlon James put a lot of work in this, and I got the distinct feeling he wanted to make his reader put in the little extra effort too once in a while.
Audiobook.....and physical book....The story begins before the election the 1976 election.
Characters we get to know at the beginning of the book - drop off --( they were killed).The names of all the characters are listed in the front of the book...(extremely useful for me).
After listening to the audio first.....(I got the physical book to help me with the follow along with the audiobook.
Following everything along with only the physical book would have made the experience harder - and more dry.
By listening to the audiobook, experiences of the graphic violence felt frightening.
Know...this is an extremely graphic book filled violence and hatred.
In my review for his previous book I’m pretty sure that I used some Crass lyrics as a jumping off point, and my aging mind thought that this was another Crass lyric that would be suitable, but it’s actually by a 90’s Connecticut Punk band with similar political leanings, The Pist… “if you want to talk about peace prepare to be ignored.” This is a lie, because talk about peace might make you be ignored by those with (not necessarily in) power, but if the talk has the tinge of being a reality those who profit from the the non-peaceful state will probably think about unleashing their violent ways on keeping their advantage.
shadow dancin' on meh like dem is Duppy Conqueror or somet'ing.
Meh can't truss dem stinkin' Dons, not a shot in hell meh tink dey gwan protect me.
Meh life blood gushing outta me, bleeding oceans all the way 'cross to America.
Him one o' me pickney dat got away an' me even tink he gwan win that prize, ire.
Meh have a right, a right to equality and humanity; gwan fight hard like rahtid to stay alive an' save meh soul.Meh name Jamaica, see?
I remember school days painfully toiling over my Latin translations ...
Thought I'd need the ambo!
A write off!Seeing as idiosyncratic language is a literary winner, I can see myself writing The Great Australian Novel, chockers with the vernacular!
and at least I provide a translation ...
see below)If patois is defined as : a form of a language that is spoken only in a particular area, then I am not going to rate myself as a "fail" for not enjoying the struggle to read this!
Thought I'd need an ambulance!
Thought I was a stupid person!
Death is not a soul catcher or a spirit, it's a wind with no warmth, a crawling sickness." -- Marlon James, A Brief History of Seven KillingsFirst, it is hard to push all that is into this novel into a bottle.
So, I'll just say it felt like some weird hybrid of (here is my brief history of seven fathers/mothers): James Ellroy (think Jamaican Tabloid), Don DeLillo (think Libra), Zadie Smith (think Shiny Teeth), Elmore Leonard (think Get Singer), Roberto Bolaño (think Savage Possy), Gay Talese (Think Bob Marley has a Toe), and with the magical realism of Gabriel Garcí­a Márquez.
It really did, emotionally, feel like I was reading one of Ellroy's best novels.
So at the same time, he is the central character and a very peripheral one.I loved the varying points of view and the distinctive voices of the different characters.The first two sections of the novel, "Original Rockers", December 2, 1976, and "Ambush in the Night", December 3, 1976, take place largely in Kingston, Jamaica.A lot (although not all) of these sections centers around the escalating gang violence in Kingston (much of it because of alliances with conflicting political parties, the conservative JLP or Jamaican Labor Party and the Socialist PNP or People's National Party) and a failed assasination attempt on Marley's life (he is referred to only as "The Singer", but it's pretty clear it's Bob Marley, the international Jamaican reggae star).
What is it with 2015 and genuinely interesting authors winning awards this year?
This is above all a book with multiple voices, one which skips fluently from Jamaican patois to African-American vernacular c.
It's a great touch, to see how well James controls his use of language.
Language becomes a tool of identity, something to shape and shed in an attempt to change one's personal identity, to leave behind the distinctive traces of the past.The book, as you'd guess for a book set in drug wars, assassination attempts, and Caribbean slums, is violent.
I look forward to reading more from the author.
Still with me?A Brief History of Seven Killings is a lot like training to run a race.
A Brief History of Seven Killings won Marlon James the prestigious Man Booker Prize for Fiction in 2015.
For those of you unfamiliar with the prize, it means that a lot of people bought A Brief History of Seven Killings, but few will actually read it.
Good thing you brought up running because I had a similar experience with the end of A Brief History of Seven Killings as I did with the end of my 10km race.
This was my first Marlon James book I read when I got an advance copy before it's release.
The book is a big sprawling epic that explores a huge colorful cast of fictional characters, all linked to the aftermath of the true life 1976 assassination attempt on reggae superstar Bob Marley (known only as "The Singer" right before the Smile Concert in Jamaica.It's a really fascinating story, well-researched and well-conceived by brave up-and-coming Jamaican author Marlon James.
I feel relieved that this anything-but-brief historical fiction has come to an end, and a tiny bit proud too, having made it.It's a challenging book, which is something I knew, going in, and which had me reluctant to pick it up, for some time now.
There's also "the singer" (aka Bob Marley), who is integral to the story but who doesn't feature directly as a character.
While the assassination attempt is a pivotal event, and an important hinge to the story, the book is more about the warring gangs associated with the Jamaica Labour Party (JLP) and the People's National Party (PNP), and their effects on history.
It's destined to make all the lists for best books of this decade, already garnering author Marlon James the 2015 Man Booker Prize.I cannot remember a novel published in the past two decades that is so searing in its combination of unique voice, intriguing characters and captivating storylines, such as when it gives a number of thrilling and feverish first-person accounts for a December 1976 shooting of the character known as The Singer and the immediate, devastating aftermath, and later provides a fascinating, fictional (though plausible) explanation for Bob Marley's (I mean, the Singer character's) death in early 1981 from cancer.Trenchtown part of Kingston, JamaicaThe book is told almost solely in the first person narrative accounts of various characters.
Also the first chapter is narrated by Sir Arthur George Jennings, a Jamaican politician, that appears as a ghost since he was murdered.“But in another city, another valley, another ghetto, another slum, another favela, another township, another intifada, another war, another birth, somebody is singing Redemption Song, as if the Singer wrote it for no other reason but for this sufferah to sing, shout, whisper, weep, bawl, and scream right here, right now.” Do not be concerned because there is patois here, the dialogue just gives the characters much more depth, and the audience a bigger understanding.
Lurking on the periphery is also a fine portrayal and analysis-of-sorts of the Singer, an obvious nod to Bob Marley and the assassination attempt against his life at the end of 1976.Two questions beg answering: “Are there really seven killings?” And “If this is a brief history, why does it take nearly 700 pages to get to the end.” The answers: there are far more than seven killings and the readers will gain clarity about the title eventually.
Marlon James helpfully provides the reader with a list of characters at the start, and I often had to refer to it.
(3.5) James, the son of Jamaican police officers, has spoken of his intention to write about violence in such a way that it is shocking every time, and he certainly succeeds here.
One stand-out perspective is Bam-Bam’s; his chapters are full of run-on phrases, remarkably page-turning even as it’s distressing to see how inured he is to sexualized violence.The novel is in five parts, each named after a popular song or album of the time.
At 350 pages this would have been a five-star read.
by Kei Miller.)(Full review to appear in December 2015 issue of Third Way magazine.)I was delighted to win a free copy through Goodreads First Reads.
Or unless you are like me, a person who loves politics and foreign cultures, who doesn’t have delicate sensibilities and who doesn’t mind doing some research to understand a story that is nearly incomprehensible at first glance.Marlon James is a stunning writer, if a little overly ambitious.
So again, if lack of fluidity bothers you, maybe this book is not for you.Let me tell you what I had to do to read this book.First, I bought the hard cover, tried to read it and gave up in frustration.Next, I purchased the audio and tried listening but that really wasn’t working for me either.Then, I spent a whole afternoon researching Bob Marley, reggae music and Rastafarianism,After that, I read this research paper which gave me some background on the politics of Jamaica.
Marlon James' third novel, A Brief History of Seven Killings, is set in a Jamaica that lies exposed like a dead badger at the roadside with all its glistening innards hanging out, being picked at by carrion birds.
When the focus shifts to the US in the second half of the book, though, James doesn't quite bring it to life quite as well, which is a shame.
I mean, drugs and murder and crime and corruption are bad, mmmKay, is a valid message that bears repeating but...
What a book. Almost a year after it won the Booker and The Green Carnation Prize, which I founded, and I have finally read it. It's not been an easy read, it's not been a pleasant read but it's a fantastic read. Gritty, violent, thought provoking, confronting and a real challenge but I've come away from it feeling as enriched and shocked as I have put through the ringer. I need more time with my thoughts.
We never faced it, but we didn’t have to, if everyone was bleaching their skin & trying to get their skin whiter and whiter until we’re full free.” That interesting and provocative comment doesn’t entirely explain the differences between the slave legacy in America and colonialist racism in Britain, but gives us something to ponder.In an interview with Kima Jones and reprinted on her blog, James tells us that the post colonialist mindset and unconscious racism has been picked up by white women: "I have very little patience for…stories and…movies [that use white characters to legitimize the experience of black characters].
Reader Response A: Hey, waiter! What the hell gives, mac? There's a goddamned experimental novel in my crime novel! You expect me to read this shit?Reader Response B: S'il vous plaît, monsieur? Terribly sorry to be a bother, but there must have been some confusion with my order. You see, there seems to be a crime novel in my experimental novel. I'm afraid I don't have quite the palate for such things.
Can you dig it, dingledoodies? Futile to say that this is not for the faint of heart, as they would never get past the four page cast of characters, past the opening chapter written by a dead man, his head a smashed pumpkin and two arms bent in a way that arms aren't supposed to bend, past the screams and the blood and the vomit, the dirt rising in a flood then back down like a reflux, past the first chapter in Bam-Bam's voice, gut-wrenching, harrowing: you want change? We will have to wait and
We will have to wait and see, but all we can do down here in the Eight Lanes is see and wait...and the boys like me not in school very regular and can't read Dick and Jane but know Coca-Cola, and want to go to a studio and cut a tune and sing hit songs and ride the riddim out of the ghetto but Copenhagen City and the Eight Lanes both too big and every time you reach the edge, the edge move ahead of you like a shadow until the whole world is a ghetto, and you wait..Seven killings?
Honestly, I don't really know how to rate this one.
James's use of Jamaican patois in a prize-winning literary novel is incredibly important.
The violence of the first half is indelible and unrelenting (as intended) and, for me, made it an incredibly difficult read.
The characters tend to be profoundly damaged people, caught in a cycle of violence and ghetto life, which makes them difficult to like.
I feel that I understand the modern Caribbean more now (which is good, since while I know the history of the region quite well, it stops at about 1800!
”Breve História de Sete Assassinatos” é um romance ambicioso e imaginativo, excessivo no contexto e na narrativa, com uma escrita tensa, onde abunda o patois jamaicano (língua crioula - de difícil acompanhamento – valorizando a excepcional tarefa do tradutor José Miguel Silva), num dos períodos mais violentos e truculentos da história da Jamaica, num desfile emblemáticos de membros de gangues, sicários, políticos, agentes da CIA, jornalistas e com a presença inesquecível de o Cantor, como sempre é referido, Bob Marley.
