https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169354.The_Prize
Unfortunately, Daniel Yergin’s paper doorstop does not answer that fundamental question about oil prices.
Yergin is sure to tell you every time OPEC did something that shook up world oil markets.
The post-World War II years was the time when oil took its mantle as the leading natural resource.
The chapters on the Middle East cover all the flashpoints: the Suez Canal Crisis; the Yom Kippur War; the Iran-Iraq War; the fall of the Shah and the Iranian Revolution; and finally, Gulf War I, touched off by Saddam Hussein’s seizure of tiny, oil-rich Kuwait.Not only are these international crises more interesting reading than earlier tales of wildcatting in Pennsylvania, but Yergin does a better job finding the human drama to accompany the inanimate central character.
Long, but soooooo good.
Lots of people write books like How Soccer Explains the World, which you read and think, "That was cute, but soccer doesn't ACTUALLY explain the world." The thing is, to hear Yergin tell it, oil actually DOES explain the world, at least for the last 150 years, and I believe him.
Kudoes to Yergin for doing so well with a topic that's potentially so dry.(It won the 1992 Pulitzer Prize, btw)If you can carve out the time over a month or so to make your way all the way through the 800 pages, it's well worth it.
Yergin thus confirms over and over what Timothy Mitchell argues in his article "McJihad" -- that a glut of oil necessitates the creation of cartels that can reduce the quantity of oil on the world market.
Ironically, Yergin does not argue for free markets because this would mean an oil glut, low oil prices, and limited profits for oil companies.
He argues for the all the good oil companies create even if that means that they have to violate free market ideology.
Mr. Yergin, you are the definition of a worthy adversary, akin to the man in the black pajamas or the value menu at Jack in the Box.The Prize is a book that, upon completion, made me feel completely ridiculous for ever having an opinion on anything (literally, anything) without this base collection of knowledge.
From the World Wars to the oil crisis to the constant flux of oil prices, Yergin dives into the truth behind this complex and critical phenomena in a way that is completely engaging and rife with amusing detail.There is far too much information to summarize in a review, so I won't even attempt, but I will say that the first half of the book was the most entertaining.
Really great history of the middle east and oil exports. It's so easy to forget how shocking the embargos and the price rises were in the US and how political the issue of oil became here. It's still the case that oil prices are indicators, but they've come under control. I wonder if the cost has been worth it. Sanctions on Iran, buddying up with the Saudis, endless war? Seems like American and Middle Eastern politics would be a lot less heated if we could all find a different way to run our machines.
The title is a little misleading, as this is not a book about an epic quest for oil itself, but rather a description of the oil price and what caused the fluctuations. It also gives some insight in the way how the relation between the imperial powers and the oil producing nations changed during time. From having no say about their oil to actually owning the oil revenues and penetrating the Western markets higher and higher up the supply chain. Although the book is outdated (it ends with the first Gulf War) I gained some valuable insights.
if we don't invade iraq, and it keeps kuwait, and prices skyrocket as a result, oil companies pass those costs on and do just fine.
keeping oil prices at historic lows for a decade may well have offset the cost of the first gulf war (i have done no analysis), especially if a major military adventure had cropped up.also interesting was the desire of governments, even net importers like the united states, to keep oil prices above some minimum.
the cost of producing economically effective domestic oil.
otherwise, one's domestic exploration and production infrastructure goes to seed as more cheaply-produced foreign oil swamps the market.
An excellent and entertaining book on 150 years history of Oil and its impact on history.
Starting from the 1800’s and ending post Operation Desert Storm, this book is a sweeping epic about the one single commodity which can literally bring the world to a standstill if choked off.
The best parts of this book are the chapters on WWII and how much the war was really about control over oil.
/ America : Ummmm…well – Stage 6•Ohhhh look at all the price rises in Oil !
Barring Ida Tarbell and Margaret Thatcher, there is not even a single woman in the entire 1000 page narrative.Alternate and more viable fuels might come up in the future but until then : [..]..ours is a civilization that has been transformed by the modern and mesmerizing alchemy of petroleum.
I read this book and the impression it left with me when I read in the 1990s that oil was a crucial but highly problematic resource.
Global Warming was not as prominent an issue but future depletion and geopolitical tensions generated by Oil were obvious even then.
This book covers the history of this resource which today still is the main driver of today's geopolitics.
Imagine this book be written in the wake of Two wars in Iraq, Russia and Venezuela, and Mexico, Nigeria.
I imagine a revision of this book in regards to our present circumstance would be dynamite if we knew the dirty deals of the present.
I enjoyed this book a great deal but I think I respect it even more.Yergin presents an exhaustive historical, economic and political epic about oil and the people, companies and countries that had significant roles in its development and policies.
I read a different book between each section as it was a little too much for me to handle at once; that strategy worked well for me.
The book is about the economic and political intertwining of oil in the modern world, if you don't think that's worth reading about then this is a book to avoid.
What I particulalry liked about it was the level of detail Yergin went into explaining the dyanmics of the oil market thorughout its existence, the major players that moved those markets, and the reasons behind why they made the decisions they did.
The story of oil is the story of the 20th centruty, for better or for worse, and this book does a stupendous job bringing this story to life and making it accessible to the general public.
So, long story short, if you love history and knowing why things turned out the way they did, this book is for you.
?- Who was Mr 5% ?- How and Why Oil defined the course of World War 1, World War 2 ?- How is Germany's Concentration Camp related to Synthetic Oil production ?- What is Teapot Dome Scandal ?- Who was the brain behind the creation of Oil Tankers ?- History of OPEC ?- The Suez Crisis right after India's Independence- Oil Embargo on 1970s- Iran Iraq War of 1980s- Iraq Kuwait War- How was Saudi Arabia formed ?- Formation of "International Energy Agency"- How did Taxi Cabs save Paris from Germany's advance in World War 1 ?- How did the Red Line Agreement come into existence ?
A history of Oil, right from its greasy beginnings.
Yergin slides through the years and explains how Oil truly oozed its way in to more than a few international conflicts and around more than a few slimy characters.
No it won't.That just felt like the thing to say.I regret nothing.
Also for what it's worth the book was made into a documentary that feels like it was made in the 1980's.
Yes, I watched it alongside reading the book.
No I don't have issues.Yergin did a very solid job on this one.
Good informative read.
Astonishing history of oil - the substance which drives the modern world economy. How it affects wars, economies, society, how nations rise and fall and fortunes are made and lost. A fundamental book for understanding a large portion of modern society.
The whole book was compelling, but I would single out for particular praise the chapters on the two World Wars and how the role of oil differed in each.
The First World War was largely static and began at least with the expectation that movement of troops would be by horse or train.
By contrast, the Second World War involved near-constant and massive movements of troops, materiel, and battle lines, all powered by oil.
I’d love to read Yergin’s analysis of the twenty-first century price increases, so will try and get hold of his later book The Quest: Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World.
Oil fever waxed and waned until the commercialization of internal combustion, which transformed the US in a mere decade and is still transforming the world.
Oil was the lynchpin resource of both World Wars.
In a lesser-known variation on the Miracle of Dunkirk, the French discovered the utility of internal combustion when the military drafted thousands of Parisian cab drivers to transport troops to the front against marching Germans.
Yergin set out to depict a fascinating historical sweep through an oil-filled prism.
I am a bit of a history buff and have read a fair amount of it, but this book added a whole new dimension to my understanding of the past century.
One thing that I found particularly illuminating is the perpetual boom-bust cycle that the book lays out.
This cycle is useful, because the fear of running out teaches us to use the resources more carefully, and makes us innovate.
After Yergin's description here, and in his less impressive but still informative follow-up book, I am fairly confident this cycle will continue.
Okay, so this is not your conventional easy read, but one that's extremely invigorating if you're interested in history.
For The Prize underlines the entire history of the past one and a half centuries revolving around the one ultimate Prize - oil.
The sheer scale of the oil industry, the pioneer role it has played to bring about industrial revolution, automobile boom etc.
Its simultaneously awe-inspiring and informative about how entire economies have been shaped and destroyed by the struggle to conquer vast quantities of black gold.
Mr. Yergin has written a classic, a must read for economists, engineers, policy makers and general public alike.
Throughout many events of the 20th century, Daniel Yergin shows the strategic importance of oil in the world economy and in geopolitics.
The lack of natural resources, especially oil, is one of the major reasons why Germany lost the war.The decisive role that oil has played during WWII helps explain why, over the second half of the 20th century until this day, major world powers will consistently try to either control oil production, or secure in some way the support of those countries where oil is produced.
Throughout major events of the 20th century, Daniel Yergin shows the strategic role that oil has been playing in geopolitics and the world economy.
I hate exaggerating but I don't think I am when I say this book has changed the way I think about the past, the present, and the future.
In the postwar world, the sheer coincidence of the Middle East sitting atop the largest sources of crude in the world has forged today's geopolitical relationships, conflicts, and crises.
It has overhauled the way I think about our relationship with the Middle East today, and has me thinking a lot in how we will continue to adapt to the scarcity of these commodities in order to energize our country and the world.
An 800-page history of oil, the most important commodity in the modern world.
Oil was important in the First World War especially as the tank was invented and the airplane rose in importance.
Iraq headed by Saddam Hussein went to war with Iran in order to seize a disputed oil-rich region and possibly annex an oil-rich Arab-majority province of Iran; neither goal was achieved.There are two motifs going on through this history.
This proved false each time: new fields were discovered in inaccessible parts of the world, and ways to extract more oil from a field were invented, though no one could have known this beforehand.
If at times the detail is a bit overwhelming, it is highly instructive portraying the dynamics of oil’s impact on global economics and politics with particular attention to the Middle East and consistently reactive US policy.Oil was a critical factor in both world wars.
Nowhere more than the Middle East did oil determine the destiny of nations and the world.
The resultant conflicts had profound effects on the world political and economic order and in today’s nuclear and highly interdependent age oil financed wars and terrorism have become even more significant.
Yergin argues that oil drives everything, and I'm largely convinced.Oil is also an amazing case study of political economy.
What happens when a cartel tries to raise the price of a commodity?
What happens when a government tries to protect local producers, but also help the consumer?
The cycle of energy politics and economics shows how governments and corporations interact when the stakes are high.As others note, Yergin writes with a point of view that is decidedly pro-America and pro-capitalist - there are a few events in the book that can easily be interpreted less charitably than he does.
Some highlights:- What made oil so difficult to acquire in the early years that whaling (literally: going to the arctic in a wooden boat, spearing a whale, dragging it onto the ship, and boiling its head) was a more cost-effective way to get fuel for lighting?- What were the first strikes like in the US (in Pennsylvania) and why were some of them over so fast?
The book was epic, but you know, sometimes you sit down and night and you don't want to read about oil.As is often the case for long books, on occasion the author gets a little indulgent in the writing.
Поистине монументальный труд о том, как нефть и другие углеводороды изменили мир вокруг нас.Может прозвучать слишком громко, но это действительно очень важная книга для понимания того, как устроен современный мир.По сути, это учебник истории последних 150 лет, но написанный через призму использования одного товара.
Советскому Союзу в книге отведено совсем мало места, но это можно понять: книга вышла 1990 году, когда это государство еще существовало и было довольно закрытым для изучения, хоть Берлинскую Стену уже и снесли.Несмотря на эти мелкие особенности, книга позволяет понять и оценить как изменился наш мир за последние полторы сотни лет, а также лучше понять работу рынка как такового.
Very voluminous, that makes me happy. I am usually fed up with modern books with large margins and font size and fewer pages. This was the opposite in all those criteria. A dramatic and glueing narrative of oil. It starts with its discovery and ends in about 1991. It leaves me wanting for more. I have started reading and understanding news about two years ago, so I feel like a sucker for the narrative being extended till today. The most exciting thriller drama you could read. Reality is better than fiction, all it takes is a good storyteller.
Great book. The development of oil gave rise to the modern world and the narrative follows through the most important events of the last 150 years. This is a great read for everyone who follows history, economics or energy politics.
Epic. One of the best books I've read in ages. Loved the characters throughout history, the writing is great and there are only a few lulls in a fairly dense tome. If you like economics, business, history and/or anthropology, you'll like this.
http://leiturasdelaura.blogspot.com.b...
