https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14429.Pincher_Martin
Once I hit my early teens and began to seriously get a reading obsession, I would raid my parent's shelves for anything that might catch my eye.
Reading it over the next few nights is one of the most profound early(ish) memories I have of being totally drowned within a narrative, of my heart pounding and something scarring itself deep down at the base of my brain.
It scared the shit out of me, I think, to find myself inside a man's mind on that lonely little bird-shit splattered outcrop of rock.
Description: The sole survivor of a torpedoed destroyer is miraculously cast up on a huge, barren rock in mid-Atlantic.
Pitted against him are the sea, the sun, the night cold, and the terror of his isolation.
At the core of this raging tale of physical and psychological violence lies Christopher Martin’s will to live as the sum total of his life.Opening: He was struggling in every direction, he was the centre of the writhing and kicking knot of his own body.
He felt his mouth open of itself and the shrieked word burst out.
A carrier?
A derelict carrier, deserted and waiting to sink?
The worst experience I've ever had with a book. I lost it on purpose after failing to pawn it off on someone who asked me why I hated it. I told them and they said 'forget it'.If you want a book filled with descriptive material that finds you rereading paragraphs because your mind has wandered onto something more interesting, a book with the biggest anti-ending of any book I've ever read, read this book.
Both novels bear on how to survive being a castaway on a far-off island.
Reading it is like being a castaway, silent, putting yourself in his shoes, musing over the possible approaches to surviving the island.
However, as time passed by, I would come to the end of my wits that everything imaginable would fail, so all I would have to do is to beat my head against a stone and realize that the best way to survive is to use my intelligence, education , and training.
Having spent one very buggy night on the beach I was headed back into town when a wonderful gentleman by the name of Diggory Venn picked me up; having heard my story he turned around and took me back to his home, introduced me to his wife and son, and offered me the use of his guest house as long as I needed it.
As I read I was absentmindedly eating from a box of raisins.
After a couple of minutes of this I finally looked down at the box in my hand, realizing at that point that I had probably eaten more ants than raisins.Anyway, I remember enjoying the book, though it has been a while now and I probably need to re-read it.
A marvellous literary supplement to any reading of Spinoza, Descartes, Liebniz, even phenomenologists such as Merleau-Ponty.
While, superficially, Pincher Martin is a survival story, its primary conflict is found not as man vs.
environment but rather man vs.
Golding chronicles the interactions of mind and body, iterating the enmeshment of their respective existences.
The outer surface of the body (the skin) of main character Chris Martin symbolizes the phenomenological interface between inner and outer environments.
Readers who fail to miss Pincher Martin's structural richness will be sorely disappointed by the book.
You must allow yourself to read beyond the text itself.
(Boon Island by Kenneth Roberts is the first.) Pincher Martin however, is alone on his rock in the mid-Atlantic and though he thinks of himself as a rational, educated and resourceful fellow, when faced with death he goes quite mad.
This pincher's Christian name was Christopher and as we enter his mind, we learn that he has been a greedy, self-centered man who liked to force people, including women, to give him what he wanted.
As in his two earlier novels, (Lord of the Flies and The Inheritors), Golding plumbs the human psyche for the hidden violent animal nature that is a part of everyone.
As the time passes he starts to lose grasp with reality and his mind along with his body is starting to burn like a fever.
I’m so alone!’’ and his mind bouncing restlessly between thoughts from reality to hallucination, like a drowning’s man last flinches.
Like when you, without even slightly expecting it, fall for a girl because of some insignificantly small details, subtle enchanting melody in her ways with you and everything or some stupid smile which with time becomes irresistible.
After all we don’t really fall to other people because of them, but because how they make us feel.
And Golding made me feel anxious.
Impenetrable on first reading. I have read much of Golding's work (he taught diffidently at my local grammar school) and am baffled as to why he enjoys such popularity. Literally succinct his stories range from the grotesque of Lord of the Flies, the recondite of Rites of Passage and the implausible of Pincher Martin. I hope the Inheritors enables me better to understand his "genius". I will let you know in due course but please, don't hold your breath.
Just started this, and it's been on my to-read list for a while.
I really like Golding as a writer, he's both uncannily clear and also quite elliptic in his writing.
This has got off to a cracking, or perhaps crashing start...Ok, weekend away in Melbourne and I finished this on the plane.
Just simply, brilliant.
I forgot how much I really like Golding's writing.
This was a remorseless, unceasing read, and of course with an extravagantly brilliant (bleak?) ending.
It's a 'difficult' read in that it's meaning is not given up easily, and my edition had a smart and useful 'afterword' which added some useful explanation.
Brilliant.
Most of the time, I didn't know what was going on, but I kept on reading, thinking, "this is a William Golding book, he is the one who gave us  The Lord of the Flies , so this book, too, must be significant in some way." But it really wasn't.
Whatever meaningful thematic layers that Golding wanted to point forth about how every human being harbours both good and evil within themselves was bogged down by the tedium of the plot and the opacity of the language.
Many other reviewers in this forum pointed out that "Pincher Martin" is a book that is almost impossible to breach when you read it the first time.
I know that the author was trying to capture the experience of being confused and feeling disconnected from the body, and I think he did a great job with that, but it made it hard to stay in the story.
I think I'd have to read this book again to really get it.
I don't recall ever feeling that with "Lord of the Flies."I did think it was coincidentally appropriate that I was reading this book about a man stranded alone and tring to survive here at a time when I'm thinking about what those who volunteer for the possible one-way mission to Mars will experience.
I thought that this book was extremely difficult to comprehend.
I would not recommend this book to a friend.
William Golding lacks excitement and anticipation which made me lose focus as well as interest.
Pincher Martin is about the death of a man named Christopher Martin.
He is dead throughout the entire book but the audience doesn't find out until the very end.
This book really empathizes Golding's theory– that when placed in extreme isolation and given the right circumstances, man will return to the innate barbarism that was instilled in him since birth.
Published a year or two after LOTF. Excellent. Worth reading if you'd like to explore more of Golding's work. Be warned, it is incredibly dark. Like much of Golding's other work, it explores human nature. He has an interesting thesis in this work - that greed is an overwhelmingly powerful force that drives us, and that the ultimate expression of it is greed for your own life (self-preservation).
Incredibly compelling. Golding's virtuoso prose pushes the limits. The sheer physicality of his descriptions, the sense of exhaustion and pain, is almost overwhelming. Occasionally, the narrative breaks down - on purpose - into terrifying abstractions. It's a punishing read.
Read this at a rough time. The book is concerned about morality primarily, with theological undertones, but could very much apply to disenchanted mental terrains as well.
Well ... The first few dozen pages of this was a great deal of suffering. But then the book went off and it was amazing to see how the author dealt with a small geographic as well as storyline space.
Wow, this was intense.
This book is a bizarre, and often dreary read.
That isn't to say, however, that there was nothing good about the book.
The ever-increasing psychoses of Martin were interesting to follow, although he was a somewhat irritating and depressing character to read about.
It's a shame the rest of the book wasn't as good.
Having read the ending, my opinion of the book as a whole went up, but I still disliked reading the rest of it enough that I couldn't give it more than 2 stars.
Maybe if I read it again my opinion of it would go up...
I found an old paperback edition of this from '56.
It's cover design features the words "Pincher Martin" surrounded by flatly colored red lobster claws.
I picked it up because I recognized Golding's name.
Then I read through it because of it's title.
And I went home with it because of its cover.
"Pincher Martin" is a quick, psychological story of the sole survivor in a destroyer wreck.
He's stranded on a large rock in the Atlantic.
He tries "greedily" to stay alive.
And nature greedily takes him.
I guess too for personality and will...for what keeps someone alive.
a dark work with many of golding's motifs concerning the savage man and the absence of god. only one character, stream-of-consciousness, stranded on a rock in the uncharted sea. man versus nature at its cruelest. despite the limitations of the plot, the character moves through revelations and developments that make this a good read.
I tried. I really did. But nope. Completely lacked any compelling interest for me. I know Golding is a big name among the classics but I could only make it about a 1/3 of the way before sheer boredom and the incoherent writing style made me want to use it for kindling.
A brutally pessimistic look at human nature. While reading the novel, I found it helpful to read Golding's Nobel acceptance speech to serve as a reminder that he didn't completely despise humanity. As in his other works, he handles the symbols here brilliantly.
Thickly William Golding-esque, but not an easy read. Often inexplicable, but certainly ends in style! At a little over 200 pages, it doesn't take long to devour, so don't give up on this one if you've begun.
Compelling narrative. Begs the question which death would you prefer one prolonged by futile hope exhaustion illness and periods of madness or one short and swift?
This was surprisingly horrible.It mirrors a short story by Ambrose Bierce, maybe in a deliberately skewed way. I do not know. Sheer terror makes it worth reading.
This is the most tedious book I have ever read. Period.
We are either feeling the physical sensations of the centre's body, or are pulled into its fragmentary memory as it remembers its ravenous past life as Christopher Martin.
In the early portion, survival predominates, but as time goes on, his memories intrude more and more, and the rock becomes almost as insubstantial as they are, culminating in his inner apocalypse, as his delusional "heaven" is destroyed completely, but his own dark centre continues to exist, with nothing but itself and eternal nothingness all around it.Martin himself is an odd case.
Most books lend themselves to this approach if, mindful of spoilers (for fiction), I avoid too much detail.Alas, ‘Pincher Martin’ is not in the category of ‘most books’.
It’s a book best read without knowing anything about the story.
It’s a book to read, to think about, and then (in my case at least) to reread.
Mr Golding achieved something quite extraordinary in this (comparatively) short novel: we are in Pincher Martin’s mind, and it’s an unforgettable journey.
It’s worth taking the time to read it.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
Published the year after Lord of the Flies, Golding approached this story in a very different way.
The prose of the opening pages is extraordinary, as the protagonist's sense of self is overwhelmed by disconnected physical sensations near the point of death.
Against that, more and more of his life story and violent impulses are revealed.Much has been written about the symbolism in the novel, most of which passed me by on first reading.
I think to focus mainly on that is to miss the sheer physicality of it.When it was first published, opinion was divided about the twist at the very end.
