https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/883235.The_Shell_Collector
Man, this guy can write like he's an octogenarian. Bastard. Seriously. Like an octogenarian of the Wallace Stegner-class. Who does he think he is, writing timeless stories that will hold up way past the superficial, self-conscious Study of Self dreck that seems to stream from writing workshops these days. If I have to wallow through one more witless and hapless protagonist who washes his or her grief in some kind of pop culture balm, I will merely think of one of Doerr's stories to refrain from bashing my head in with a peen hammer.
Pretty much every story in this collection has as its theme an individual’s relationship with the natural world.
And the natural world is always called upon to act as a guru – because Doerr, you suspect, is something of an old hippie at heart.
I couldn’t help feeling while reading this that, if he still wants to write about the natural world, he should write a novel about the damage being done to the environment, to the natural world.
If the natural world is a constant source of life-enhancing stimulants, as he’s constantly reminding us, how about tackling the more meaty subject of its desecration by human greed?
This is one of my all-time favorite short story collections.
I was browsing in the bookstore (my cheap entertainment) and found this book.
I think the final story in the collection, "Mkondo," though previously unpublished, seems to stand above the others in that it brings all his philosphies on nature, life, and love into one story with perfect balance and execution.I am in awe of his ability to weave in research and to lyrically capture setting.
It's not a book to be rushed through.
If that's how you enjoy reading the best books, you'll love this one.
Very well done collection of short stories by Anthony Doerr, written a dozen years before his Pulitzer Prize winner "All The Light We Cannot See." If you read "All The Light," you will recognize little bits and pieces of that lovely book in some of these stories, especially the title story.
Straight from "The Shell Collector."All of the stories are engrossing and quite different from one another.
One facet that stood out for me in this collection was how beautifully he creates his physical environments.
He woke, stricken still with the hours-old vision of ascending through rose-lit cumulus, of houses and barns like specks deep in the snowed-in valleys, all the scrolling country below looking December— brown and black hills streaked with snow, flashes of iced-over lakes, the long braids of a river gleaming at the bottom of a canyon.
Chapter 7: A Tangle by the Rapid:Mulligan gathers his things: his fly rod, a coffee-browned thermos, Ziplocs plumped with potato sticks, deer jerky, ginger-snaps, extra socks in a knapsack.
Since that fine and giddy wedding night, when he held her long after she slept, and told her things and she did not wake up.
In any case, all of them are beautifully crafted and lovely to read, some taking you to remote worlds you most likely will never go to yourself.Along with the much larger theme of the force of life in both nature and mankind, other subtle threads run through each story: the different manifestations of the color blue and the feeling of existing outside one's own head or body were a couple of my favorites."The Caretaker" reminded me of the best of Jhumpa Lahiri combined with, say, a less-innocent version of Coetzee's Life & Times of Michael K, while standing completely on its own merits and even surpassing others.
As you may know, I especially like very short stories – maybe just a half dozen pages – and books with chapters that are similarly short.
I am reading the last story in the book, Mkondo, and for once I think I am actually understanding the allegory, where the story is taking me, and I want to know if there is going to be a happy or puzzling or sad ending.
Or maybe I need to read this medium-length story again in a day or two to see what I think the second time.
El Rastreador de Conchas 3/5 La Mujer del Cazador 4,5/5Tantas Opurtunidades 5/5 :)Durante mucho tiempo Griselda fue la comidilla 3/5Cuatro de Julio 3/5El Casero 5/5 ;DUn Laberinto junto al Rapid River 2/5 :/Mkondo 5/5 ;D
2.99 todayThis was my first book by Anthony Doerr. Each story was made up of rich, dimensional characters and beautiful prose. This collection of short stories tempers hope with despair and you will find yourself thinking about them long after you finish. All The Light We Cannot See has been on my TBR list for sometime, I am looking forward to reading it. This has been an awesome year of reading for me with many new authors!Immediately drawn to this cover!
Anthony Doerr's stories always spark interest in the most unusual things.These are two of my favorite stories from this collection.THE SHELL COLLECTOR is a heartwarming tale about a blind man who on a verge of losing his eyesight develops the love for smooth and delicate shells on the beach of Florida.
Until he accidentally discovers the healing powers of the supposedly deadly cone snails that cure two malaria patients, causing a public outburst and landing him in the center of unwanted social attention.Sometimes the most beautiful things can be the also the deadliest.
And in people.THE HUNTER'S WIFE was originally published in The Atlantic which is where I first read it and which is also how I discovered Anthony Doerr.
This collection of short stories is lifeless. It's everything I hate about writing: boring stories that take place in "exotic" locations, featuring "interesting" charcters, written by a 29 year old white guy invested in authenticity. Uggh.
I think reading the stories more than once helped me enjoy them a little bit more than my first take on them. I can't say that I have a favorite story, but I think I liked the last one the best. I am looking forward to reading All the Light...
A collection of short stories by Anthony Doerr, whose All the Light We Cannot See left a lasting impression on me.
I must preface my next comment by saying that I am not always a fan of the short story.
I often feel it is just getting interesting and it is gone.
The relationship between the two sisters, though strange, was something I could relate to and also the question that rose to my mind of whether it is best to be the one who goes or the one who is left behind.
These stories all share a common thread, which is that they reveal the power and beauty of nature and the relative frailty of human beings.
At times, I became lulled by their beauty, or became immersed in the disparate worlds and then suddenly *shwoom* out flew the rug and down I tumbled, scratching my head and wondering "Now what was that all about?"I think anyone who has stared at a sunset or an intricate spiderweb in awe would find a lot to appreciate here.
Mother Nature is the star of the show.
Doerr is magnificent writer of breathtaking prose, poetic descriptions of nature's beauty and sudden harshness, and evocative characterization of uniquely interesting yet all too human characters.
The Shell Collector is one of the richest short stories I've ever read.
I am not a frequent reader of short stories but I picked this up after reading a review of Doerr's new novel All the Light We Cannot See. I immediately purchased it after reading these short stories and feel like it is the best gift of the year.
Reminiscent of Andrea Barrett's short stories in the way they connect characters to the natural world.
Even though he's capable of great imaginative riffs, his voice doesn't vary much from one story to the other.
Doerr's an interesting case study in pov, in fact, because in several of his stories, he jumps into a different protagonist's head well after the "pov contract" has been established.
"The Shell Collector" is to shells what A.S. Byatt's "A Stone Woman" is to rocks, but Doerr's story is much more engaging since he sees within his shells both beauty and danger.
Lastly, I've got to say that I'm impressed with Doerr's depiction of protagonists of different races.
This is a collection of short stories from a pretty young author--really beautiful stuff.
Sharon, this is the book I told you about with the story about the hunter's wife who touches the dying animals to feel their pain and their life.
It stems from there to get even more dramatic and metaphysical but seriously.....the stories in here absolutely changed me and made me want to become a writer.
There's a story in here about a homeless man who cuts out the hearts of beached whales and buries them and then sleeps on the ground above them, only it's not gross, Jen, it's beautiful.
Usually I enjoy the mythical and esoteric type of tale, but this one was strangely cold and dispassionate.So Many Chances: beautiful story of a young starting to find herself.
Beautiful descriptive language, I could smell the smells of the carnival and see the small town landscape.
One sister runs off to a life outside of the small town.
The other stays and picks up the pieces of their broken mother and goes on to live a small town life.
It's middle is a tale of hopelessness, of loss, of despair, it's ending is a glimmer of hope.
Such pain and such beauty in one small story.
This collection starts strong, then it starts to seem like this guy's instrument doesn't have too many strings and then he tries to write about Africans.The first three stories are memorable and rewarding, pleasantly removed from day-to-day circumstances and romantically committed to unlikely pairings and second shots--"So Many Chances" I might read again just for pleasure.
If this was 1700 and Africa was still the unknown, he could people it with barbarians and alienated semi-adapted, cerebral metaphors; but it isn't and his African stories ("The Caretaker" and "Mkondo"), while perhaps well structured and rewarding to interpret, use foreigness as a blocking device to protect characters who act in unlikely but memorable ways.
Doerr's order here, too, is especially spot-on.
Unlike so many short sorry collections that fizzle out, this one roars to the end.
"Mkondo", the final story, is my personal favorite.
It is so good, in fact, you will hang on every word, not wanting it to end.
Also impressive -- the fact that Doerr was 29 when this was first published.
Many writers would kill to be able to write like this after a lifetime, but Doerr apparently has it.
Absolutely incredible prose.One of the very best short story collections I've ever read.
A good collection with some really strong stories, especially in the beginning. Lovely atmosphere and writing. Unfortunately though, by the end, the stories got a bit repetitive and I felt myself getting a little bored.
My only gripe with this book is that the writing is too descriptive at times; the author spends the better part of the story writing detailed prose describing nature and the frame and the elements around the characters, it can get kind of overbearing for the impatient reader.
Would advise readers to go into it for a patient read savoring the lyrical prose rather than looking for a fast story-driven book like his previous one from which it differs drastically in pacing but resembles a lot in writing precision.
3,5*
(For a Long Time this was Griselda's Story).My personal favourites were the three stories with an African connection: The Shell Collector - About a blind marine biologist in Kenya whose peace and quiet is shattered when he inadvertently stumbles across a potential cure for a fatal disease.The Caretaker - About an African man who goes to the United States as a refugee from the civil war in Liberia, but can't shake the trauma of what he has seen and done.Mkondo - An unlikely love story between a Tanzanian woman who loves to be wild and free, and a conservative American man who works for the Ohio Museum of Natural History.Not only are the stories really interesting and original, with lots of details and beautiful descriptions, but they are also richly layered and provide lots to think about.The Hunter's Wife (about a woman who can sense the spirits of dead animals) and So Many Chances (about a man who moves his family across country for a better life) were also really interesting and provided a lot of food for thought.
I've recently been experiencing short story fatigue (with my own shorts more than anyone else's).
Then along came Anthony Doerr.
If I tried to describe any of his plots to you, you'd conclude that they sound absurd.
My only conclusion is that Doerr has held onto that impulse that gets us to tell stories in the first place.
These are not quiet, formulaic stories told in a certain hushed workshop voice of restraint.
"The Hunter's Wife" in particular will stay with me as an example of all that a story can accomplish.
I wanted to like this books of short stories by Anthony Doerr.
To his credit, Doerr exhibits the same colorful descriptions more fully developed in "All the Light We Cannot See," but the characters lack the warmth and interest so dramatically drawn in the book that garnered him the Pulitzer prize.
I think it is only fair to recognize this as a precursor to his later work.
One thing in the book's favor is the variety of settings that comprise the stories.
Hindering my enjoyment is that a short story, in fact a book of short stories, must take on a shape to work for me.
In each of these 8 gratifyingly longish stories we have time to bond with the mostly floundering oddball characters that populate them. AD has a talent for pulling a reader in from the first sentence, and he lays things out without fuss, yet it would be a mistake to take things for granted and prepare for a twist on the anticipated twist, and maybe a few deep laughs.She was learning that in her life everything- health, happiness, even love- was subject to the landscape. p199
Wow, wow, wow! They say you should only write about what you know, well this guy must know everything. Amaaazing writer!
Everything hewed to a rigidity of pattern, the certainty of death.” – The Shell CollectorI know that this is a story collection, and that stories in a collection usually deal with similar topics, but most of the stories in this book are too similar for my liking.
It was not the first time people tried to seek him out.” – The Shell CollectorMy other favorite story is “The Caretaker.” A refugee from Liberia ends up in the US after losing his home and family.
And now look.’” – The Shell CollectorTL;DR: Not as good as All The Light We Cannot See, but readers who love nature (and fishing) would probably enjoy this collection.
