https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/540503.Beyond_This_Horizon
Heinlein was written ten years after Huxley’s Brave New World and the influence from this genetic and sociological masterpiece is evident.
Also noteworthy is that the book was published during WWII and this may comprise Heinlein’s response to Hitler’s Nietzschian policies, especially ideas about elitist racism and possible supermen.
Being one of his earlier works, though, RAH had yet to come into his own in terms of characterization, flat here, but will blossom into masterpieces The Moon is a Harsh Mistress and Stranger in a Strange Land about twenty years later.
:)Without even mentioning the Hugos or the need to find the best SF or Fantasy of 1942, I would have read this early Heinlein novel thinking that it's a very polished introduction to his later genetic-field obsession with longevity.
:) Stapledon might blow him out of the water for sheer scope and range of ideas and world-building and commentary, but Heinlein's soup had the perfect mix.He's my main choice for the Hugo.
I don't guarantee I'd like it as much if I read it again today.
I don't think it ever came up.The bit I remember best is near the beginning.
They're having dinner at a fancy French restaurant, sitting on a balcony and eating bouillabaisse.
I'm not sure if the other guy is killed or just seriously wounded - I think the latter.At the time, I'm afraid I bought Heinlein's argument that, if everyone carried a gun and was ready to use it, people would have better manners.
I still can't eat bouillabaisse without thinking of this scene.
This book answered a question for me that I've wondered about for a long time: what does an author do with his leftover story tangents that he likes but can't quite work in anywhere?
He instead clutters the book with tangents (a man transported alive but unaging through time in a stasis field, a secret group bent on overthrowing the near-utopian society, reincarnation, telepathy, etc) that feel random and pointless.--update: Turns out that this is only the second "novel" Heinlein ever wrote.
And remember Heinlein has a certain sort of disturbingly sexist attitude, doesn't understand women at all - certainly the only armed one is seen as, erm, eccentric, to put it mildly.Females don't need guns because men (aka people) are all about being protective and chivalrous...
And so, the methods of genetic selection described are, erm, interesting.)Heinlein is well-read, and clever.
I guess I'll keep working through the stack of Heinlein books I own, but without high hopes for the enjoyment I'd expect given his popularity, and given the fact that I do remember liking him when I was a teen.
It feels like an early groping toward characteristics in which he would ultimately become a nearly unparalleled master.Take the character development.
The characters in this novel have some remarkable aspects of development, but are still flatter and less sympathetic than what I expect from Heinlein.Similarly, Heinlein typically creates startling, vivid worlds extending in plausible ways from his own generally colored by his own startling benevolence and sense of hope.
There are interesting aspects of this world from his early occupation with social credit explained more thoroughly in his posthumously published first work, For Us, the Living: A Comedy of Customs .
There are still some normal people (referred to as "control naturals") that could potentially provide new genetic mutations for the good of mankind.Hamilton Felix genetically represents the best of what humanity has to offer.
He gets wrapped up in a group plotting to overthrow the government that thinks only the best of humanity should thrive in society while the control naturals are destroyed or used for experiments.
I found Heinlein's debate of honor and privilege in this to be interesting in much the same way as his notions of earning rights by military service in Starship Troopers.I liked the main plot as described but thought it could have happily ended about halfway through.
An early example of Heinlein learning the craft of writing novel length works. First published in serial form under his pseudonym - Anson MacDonald, this was his first attempt - "For Us, The Living" written during the late thirties and left unpublished until 2003, was an even earlier attempt and even less successful as a novel that this one, but both have all the seeds of the themes to come in future works as the Master refines his technique and finds his 'voice'.
He likes to work.
… likely to spend his spare time working out some gadget which will displace labor and increase productivity.” (20th maybe, not 21st century)Marred by lengthy exposition/preaching.
While Heinlein was ahead of society in some ways and clearly foresaw many technology advances only made possible by the invention of the transistor some years later, he mistook then-current fads in economics and para-psychology as indicative of future trends.
“Which shows how much of the modern negative criticism that Heinlein evokes in the present day is not only completely mistaken and stupid, but pernicious and hatefully intended.” Denounces ad hominem attacks by “critics, most of whom I consider idiots.” Claims it “does not end with a twist” but with “an authentic answer.” Dissuades trying any of his works.
As David Brin pointed out recently, in an essay that reminded me I hadn't read this book in a long time, those who support its views on gun control pretty much ignore the other aspect of its utopia: people get all their needs taken care of by the government.
As able as Heinlein is at using language in the first pages to dump you right into the world, the book is clumsy with a lot of its exposition, especially the early stuff about the eugenics wars.
In most ways, this book is a real failure.But. As is often with Heinlein, I very much enjoyed reading it.
It's a pretty good story set in an interesting world but for a teen it does have a "bog-down-factor".
In the middle of the book we get a fairly long dissertation on Mendelian Genetics.
While it's of course a bit dated it's somewhat more interesting than it was when i was a kid...Especially since my high school biology teacher assigned me to do a paper on the said Mendelian Genetics...Anyway good story as is usually reliably what you get from Heinlein...enjoy, even if not as much as some other of his books.:)
As a big fan of Heinlein, I was extremely disappointed by this book.
Too much of the book was spent towards something that never really developed, and not enough of the story was devoted to the actual story.
The actual story was about a man whose dilemma was what's so great about life that I need to have children.
He's created some extremely strong female characters in his prolific career, but every once in a while, a bit of chauvinism creeps in.
In the case of this book, it was entirely too much.
Nothing in it that really made me like this book.
I never really could get into this book. The language is (appropriately) formal, as befitting the setting Heinlein set up which is one reason. Another is that the plot doesn't necessarily progress nearly as fast as the political commentary.I agree with much of it, but it's more commentary than story.The ending isn't that satisfying either, although it does follow from the overall story and makes good sense.You've got to think to read this one.
This is not one of my favorite of Heinlein's works. I didn't realize I had already read it until I started in on it again, because the story is not very memorable. The story serves as a skeleton with which to convey some of Heinlein's Utopian ideals. Don't get me wrong, Heinlein's Utopian ideals are fascinating, but there was not much story here.
This book took me AGES to read, and I usually finish books in a day. It's interesting but slow, and doesn't really have an ending.
So in the novel we have space travel, other planets in the Solar System populate by humans, a 'perfect society' that still leaves people wanting more and yearning for 'something else', genetic engineering, children literally planned before they are conceived, a revolution, some misogyny and some mistreated women, an armed yet relatively polite society, 'no fault' divorce without consequences, a planned revolution to overthrow this 'perfect society' and replace it with what sounded suspiciously like the Nazi view of perfection, comments about a 'World War' involving genetically enhanced supermen led by a Khan, love lost and found, and, in the end, the discussion of the meaning of life and reincarnation.The book did remind me of 'A Brave New World' in some respects [possibly because of genetic engineering/planning and mapping out of desired genetic traits and whatnot], sans the amount of promiscuity that was in 'A Brave New World'.
“Beyond this Horizon” (1942) by Robert Heinlein—the dean of science fiction writers I was prompted to reread this novel by my current reading of William Paterson’s readable biography of Heinlein “Robert A.
So to Heinlein (and his libertarian buddies) casual death is the norm, where the hero calmly ignores any qualms or feelings of empathy over the loss of another human being.
H’s post-BtH novels return to the traditional dismissive disdain of governments, but for now he shows a rare regard for those chosen to lead the world.
An entertaining piece of writing, fantastic ideas, but I deplore the violence and lack of regard for human life.
And like Shakespeare with his melancholy Dane, Heinlein presents his protagonist, Hamilton Felix, a genetically bred yet ennui-stricken “superman” who will explore life, death, friendship, and more, to include "investigat[ing] what the Universe had been and what it would become."Needless to say, Beyond This Horizon exceeds both story and genre expectations.“In a nutshell,” the author weaves two plotlines in which he explores Preservation and Extinction, (or Life and Death), Evolution and Mutation, (or Fate and Chance / Free Will), the Individual and the Community, Logic and Emotion, and lastly, the Simple and the Complex via the Pastoral and the Metropolitan.A “sneeze” may reveal one to be a “Control Natural,” i.e., not genetically bred and therefore “inferior,”—to be eliminated in future breeding alignments.
Least favourite of the Heinlein novels I've read. It didn't seem like there was much direction at all. Its possible the retro Hugo was given based on name rather than merit last year.Updated Heinlein Ranking:1) Moon Is A Harsh Mistress2) Stranger in a Strange Land3) Double Star4) Starship Troopers5) Farmer in the Sky6) Beyond This Horizon
Between them they produce a son, Theobald, who they soon discover has powers that seem to equate to telepathy.By the end of the book Felix has found a purpose for his life, and his original apathy no longer causes him concern.Some have suggested that Beyond This Horizon represents one of the first examples of a post-singularity novel and to some degree I can agree with that assertion, though many of the elements required for a true post-singularity world are absent simply as a result of when it was written; computers were barely known of, and the idea of a world-wide interconnected communication network (the internet) was still a few decades away from being considered.Personally I don't consider this to be one of Heinlein's best, though it's still better than much of the sci-fi of the time.
The world has conquered poverty, crime, and most diseases and while there are still natural-born humans, they are generally considered inferior.Despite this alleged Utopia, wealthy game designer Hamilton Felix questions whether mankind should even continue as a race.
Modern readers might also stumble over Heinlein’s occasional use of what would now be considered archaic grammar, but, in such cases, meaning can easily be derived from context.Published in 1948, Beyond this Horizon is one of Heinlein’s earliest novels and offers a glimpse into the imaginative and prescient mind of one SF’s legendary visionaries.
Of course for every rule there is an exception and unfortunately this story was originally published back in 1942, within the pages of Astounding Science Fiction, the same year ASF also serialized Isaac Asimov's highly acclaimed Foundation.Still it is certainly a Heinlein tale and much of this book, as with many of the early Heinlein stories, provided a major influence to SF creators over the next 5 decades and into today.
Most notably early Heinlein works provided inspiration to the creative teams which produced the "pop" SF series Star Trek and just like Space Cadet held the origins of Star Fleet this particular tale bore an early version of Khan Noonien Singh into the world.I would recommend it to anyone interested in talking about Brave New World or having that utopia/dystopia conversation.
Originally published at FanLit.http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...Hamilton Felix is a genetic superman, carefully crafted from the best chromosomes his ancestors had to offer.
One problem is that most of these ideas — eugenics, selective breeding, survival of the fittest — are neither new nor particularly interesting for the 21st century reader, though that’s not Heinlein’s fault because Beyond This Horizon was published in Astounding Science Fiction in 1942.
What is Heinlein’s fault is that he presents these ideas in lecture format.
I felt like I was back in high school.Read the rest at FanLit http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
Not really what this non-Heinlein reader expected from Heinlein, somehow--but then, it seems to have been a relatively early work (apparently his first novel-length, serialized starting in 1942 and published as a whole in 1948). The society-in-which-adult-males-are-armed-by-default is unsurprising, but the easy acceptance of an essentially totalitarian eugenics program seems contrary to what I've heard from his admirers. Sadly, also, the plot is treated as secondary to the ideas (rarely a successful approach to fiction), and there are great wodges of explanatory prose. All the same, a reasonably pleasant and undemanding read.
People who knock on this work as "the worst of Heinlein" obviously haven't taken time to understand it.
This is a masterpiece.
But it is a subtle masterpiece.
It explains some important details that the average reader may miss.
Most prominently, it calls the readers attention to a particular transition that occurs on a particular page in the second half of the novel.
Simply put, if you don't understand the transition, you haven't understood the book at all.I recommend you read it, and hang on for a great ride.
But read it with care!
Beyond This Horizon1981 grade B+1996 grade B2017 grade B-/C+Heinlein's 1942 second novel has more in common with his later novels then the his prime middle era.
The active part of the story is more philosophical than anything else, not something I am fond of.
In 1942 a science fiction writer could not count on his readers knowing the science basics.
In this novel two short chapters of about six pages are entirely about current science, one about basic genetics.
Science discussions are also throughout the book.Outside of the science areas it still feels like Heinlein but I cannot recommend it and will not read it again.

I'm not really sure why I don't like this. Maybe it's because, once again, I've moved beyond early sci-fi or maybe something about this screamed stereotypes. If I had read Heinlein before all that Asimov, I may be tempted to say that Asimov was reworking the formula but as things are, I'm not.Maybe I'll read it again with a clear mind some day when the urge for silliness in space and moral introspection takes hold.Or maybe not.
Disappointing. The writing is awkward and klunky. Reading Heinlein's thoughts on the ethics of eugenics from a 1948 perspective was interesting. Also, the copy I borrowed from the library had a three "plates" with great pencil drawings of random scenes from the book.
Diverting
