https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175092.Eustacia_Goes_to_the_Chalet_School
"Arrant little prig" she may be, but I defy any girl who has spent the first fourteen years of her life living with elderly parents in Oxford and reading erudite books, to relish being told by her nearest remaining relative that she is unlovable, and then being sent away, not just to boarding school, but to a boarding school as far away as humanly possible, where she is forced to take part in physical activity that she loathes, has no time to herself, and is told that every value she has grown up holding dear is, in fact, wrong.Of all the characters who turn up at the Chalet School, don't fit in, and have to be moulded into a Real Chalet School Girl, Eustacia is probably the most fascinating.
The rivalry that springs up between Eustacia and Joey Bettany, our window into the School and all its doings, feels real too: at this point, the latter remains a credible character, whose great popular appeal does not disguise or excuse the fact that she can be headstrong, hot-tempered and tactless at times.There's also some fun to be had for the long-time Chalet reader to see major characters coming to the fore: Miss Annersley, who has hitherto played a colourless and very tiny role as a supporting player within the School, is suddenly gifted a personality and many conversations with girls and staff alike.
Never mind that Joey herself was stated as being "stronger than ever" after an attack of pleuropneumonia last time--any excuse is a good one to say that she is "not strong" and send her to bed for the day.
Teachers as well as girls are constantly being swept into the arms of burly mountain men and carried hither and yon--!!At first I was interested; the Chalet School gets its first thoroughly unpleasant, arrogant little prig (the author's description) for a student in the form of Eustacia.
One of the tropes I really really hate in school stories, especially the Chalet School, is when a girl can redeem herself and become acceptable, worthwhile, 'loveable', through conforming to the limited social norm of a community of schoolgirls, and at the cost of the obliteration of her entire past personality.
No, Eustacia's parents weren't bad because they were cold, classist boors who didn't teach her manners or socialisation or self-knowledge or indeed any academic subjects except those in her father's field of study...
Eventually the entire school, including the mistresses, hate Eustacia, until (as usual) a dreadful accident occurs.
Honestly, so many dreadful accidents occur at the Chalet School it seems a rather dangerous place (and it is only book 6).
Another reviewer said this was really creepy, and I agree - I prefer it when the naughty girls just get a bit less naughty.At one point Jo gets a talking to about her general influence with people - how everyone pretty much automatically loves and admires her and how this gives her a greater responsibility - I actually liked how Jo's heroine nature was acknowledged in this way.
The sixth in the series, rich with the gorgeous detail of the Tyrol and the sheer thrill of the early titles, Eustacia Goes To The Chalet School is spectacular.
It's sort of a blueprint of everything the Chalet School series could be when it was on form.Following the now traditional concept of new term, new girls, this term sees Eustacia join the Chalet School.
Eustacia's time at the Chalet School isn't brilliant.
Basically, it's like the Chalet School gone a little bit nuts.
Chambers hardback edition. Review to come.
Although the later books, with their references to familiar characters, were pretty enjoyable too.The book follows the travails of 14-year-old Eustacia Benson who, in the very first sentence, is described as “the most arrant little prig that ever existed.” The narrator makes no bones about the fact that the eponymous character is thoroughly unlikable.
Heck, even Voldemort got off with mass genocide with nary a peep from a neutral narrator.Through the rest of the book, Eustacia wages a perpetual war against the Chalet School darling Joey Bettany, is wholly ostracised for a fairly minor infraction and has the whole school baying for her blood.
I'm calling this a reread as I have read the paperback version of Eustacia before.
All the same, it's kind of a new read as well.While I've known for a long time that many of the Chalet school paperpacks were abridged, I didn't always realise how drastic some of those abridgements had been.
There's something about the early, Tyrol-based books that the later ones, no matter what interesting things might happen in them, never quite manage to match.I thoroughly enjoyed re-meeting Eustacia and I may just have to reread some more of the early books as the year goes on.
What a holy terror of a girl Eustacia is!
I was laughing out loud more than once at her antics.Interesting to re-read a very early book in the series as well, since my 'pet' era generally tends to be the Guernsey/Armiford/St. Briavel's era - most of my favourite characters seem to be at school during those books.
So to go back to book 6, where Jo is still a student herself, as was at least one other future teacher; to read about girls whose characters I'd more or less forgotten and whose names I only knew as 'old girls', it was interesting!
This is the second of the books I bought yesterday, although it's a few books further on. I love these books; they're a different world, being as they're set in the 1920/30's, yet they're still accessible.I enjoyed this book, though I felt it ended a little sooner than it should have. It's your basic "new, disagreeable girl joins the school, but comes good in the end" story, but still enjoyable.
Eustacia is the daughter of an eminent professor, and is sent to the Chalet School. She considers herself superior to the other girls, which inevitably leads to some clashes and - eventually - high drama.This is sixth in the lengthy series, and I'm delighted to have it in hardback now. Much better than the abridged paperback version which I last read six years previously. Good light reading that doesn't use up too much brain power, and yet is surprisingly moving in places.
One of the best of the Chalet School series. Eustacia is bright, but arrogant and self-centered. Naturally she has to be whipped into shape, and Joey is helpful in achieving that! A character study, but there is lots of Alpine adventure too.
What a horrid little girl! I wondered what it was going to take to turn things around. As per usual all comes right in the end. I was really shocked at one sentence though - and I suppose it shows the age the book was written - Mary says "we'll have to work like niggers" - terrible.
I thought this book was good, but not as good as the previous chalet school books. Still, I enjoyed it and would certainly recommend it.
I dare say many of these foreigners have no idea how to treat books -""Less about foreigners, if you please!" struck in Deira.
"I don't know if you realize that this is not England; still, in case you haven't, it's Austria, and the foreigners are not the Austrians."That feels like the beginning of Brent-Dyer's outspoken cosmopolitanism, which eventually leads to her amazingly clear-sighted view of Hitler and the Nazis, as well as various unsubtle asides (meant to show poor breeding) about people who are less than thrilled to meet Austrians or Germans during WWII.
Totally Loooove C.S. No more to be said. Find yourself the first CS book and go forward.
A favorite childhood series of mine.
Really? Stacie?
Ah, who can forget Eustacia, the conceited, smug new girl who is so bad she has to injure her back in order to become a nice person.
Plus, I really like Mary Burnett as head girl, and Margia and the rest of the quintette are just entering the brightest part of their school careers.By the end of the book, Eustacia has become Stacie, and that's how we know her for the rest of the series.
She doesn't just fade away, as interesting new girls later tend to, and she isn't one of those girls who doesn't quite complete her transformation (cf Grizel, Joan Baker).
Previously only read the abridged Armada edition, so it was very nice to be able to read the new unabridged edition from Girls Gone By Publishers.When Eustacia's parents die, her father's will states that she should be sent to school, much to her aunt's relief.
At the suggestion of Grizel Cochrane's stepmother, the Chalet School is chosen, in hopes that she will find her place amongst its students, many of whom have experienced more rigid upbringings than the average English girl.
A great deal of time and trouble must pass before she learns a very hard lesson and emerges a much nicer girl, a true Chalet School girl.
