https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173384.Thoughts_in_Solitude
Thomas Merton, a trappist monk, has written the most sublime book on his relationship with God and his life in solitude as a monk. I found the book to be quite inspiring and such a pleasure to read. Each page was a delight and one can literally browse any page at a later stage and immediately connect with Merton's thoughts.
"The solitary life is above all a life of prayer."A nice exploration of/exposition on the need for reflection, silence, seeking God in quiet spaces, and the vocation of solitude.
Merton reminds us to seek.
He reminds the reader of the need for gratitude, prayer, meditation, and simplicity.
But even those who live among, need space to swim occasionally alone.
While I'm not a Catholic and have no plans of leaving my books and my family behind, I AM drawn to writers like Merton.
Some found peace and comfort in Catholocism, etc., or among various Eastern sects.
For until we have begun to live our prudence has no material to work on.
And until we have begun to fail we have no way of working out our success" (74)."A man knows when he has found his vocation when he stops thinking about how to live and begins to live" (84)."In solitude I have at last discovered that You have desired the love of my heart, O my God, the love of my heart as it is - the love of a man's heart" (127).
Great thoughts on spiritual formation and deepening our love in Christ through prayer and meditation. Lots of highlighting involved in reading this book... there is a lot to chew on and many pages dogeared for future reference.
As a fan of writers such a Augustine, Aquinas, and Thomas a Kempis, I'm very familiar with the writings of monks.
I've benefited from the timeless wisdom and though provoking writings of all these authors.
However, this was the first book I've read by Merton.I really enjoyed this short book.
Merton writes beautifully and from a philosophical as well as practical perspective.
He defines solitude (which can be found either amid groups of people or when we're alone), the benefits of it, and explains how to seek it.
It impressed me enough that I will be reading more of Merton's work on other subjects within the next year.
There is much to learn from in this short book and I know I've only scratched the surface. In a world of smartphones, Netflix, social media and everything else, I'm grateful for any clear headed thoughts that point me towards silence and contentment, rather than endless cycle of consuming.
Let us not fear the responsibilities and the inevitable distractions of the work appointed for us by the will of God. Let us embrace reality and thus find ourselves immersed in the life-giving will and wisdom of God which surrounds us everywhere." p.47"Great though books may be, friends though they may be to us, they are no substitute for persons, they are only means of contact with great persons, with men who had more than their own share of humanity, men who were persons for the whole world and not for themselves alone." p.63"Magic insults His silence by making it the mask of an intruder, of a malign power that usurps the throne of God and substitutes itself for His presence.
Although he is a traveler in time, he has opened his eyes, for a moment, in eternity." p.96"The Christian solitary does not seek solitude merely as an atmosphere or as a setting for a special and exalted spirituality.
I feel like going on a christposting spree now.
★★☆☆☆ (2/5)A selection of my favourite passages from the book • Before we can see that created things (especially material) are unreal, we must see clearly that they are real.  • Temperament does not predestine one man to sanctity and another to reprobation. All temperaments can serve as the material for ruin or for salvation.  • If we make good use of what we have, if we make it serve our good desires, we can do better than another who merely serves his temperament instead of making it serve hi
If man is to live, he must be all alive, body, soul, mind, heart, spirit.
• A purely mental life may be destructive if it leads us to substitute thought for life and ideas for actions.
Prayer is then not just a formula of words, or a series of desires springing up in the heart—it is the orientation of our whole body, mind and spirit to God in silence, attention, and adoration.
The words of the proud man impose silence on all others, so that he alone may be heard.
Find God first in the community, then He will lead you to solitude.
wow. This completely exceeded my expectations. There were a few sections that I found difficult to relate to, but the vast majority of the book blew me away. I will doubtlessly be returning to Thoughts In Solitude again and again.A word in season. I greatly look forward to checking out some of Merton's other works!
I was surprised to enjoy this as much as I did and will be seeking out more Thomas Merton. Most interesting to me were his meditations on humility.
Quite good. I've not read nearly enough Merton, and this was excellent. Worth the price of admission for the famous "Merton Prayer" alone. Reminiscent of Henri Nouwen.
I do not see the road ahead of me.
Nor do I really know myself, and the fact that I think that I am following your will does not mean that I am actually doing so.
But I believe that the desire to please you does in fact please you.
And I hope I have that desire in all that I am doing.
I hope that I will never do anything apart from that desire.
And I know that if I do this you will lead me by the right road though I may know nothing about it.
I fell in like with trappist monk Thomas Merton several years ago when I read Seven Storey Mountain. Since then I've collected several of his works and they are always enlightening and inspirational. Thoughts in Solitude is a short read of 130 pages, but packed with Merton's philosophical and spiritual thoughts on humility and silence. So much stood out and I'll probably be coming back to this time and again.
I think I would have loved this book 10 years ago, but when I read it this week, it seemed not to be what I needed at the moment. The book is not exactly what it says it is. It really isn't thoughts on solitude, but thoughts on how to be a humble Christian. This is useful, but I guess not what I was looking for at the moment.
Fortunately Kim told me to savour it slowly. Incredible wisdom if you read it slowly and ponder what Merton is saying.
This book is part dialogue between Merton and the reader and part dialogue between Merton and God (a prayer of sorts). In a time where "busy" is seen as a virtue, Merton reminds us that solitude helps us become the truest version of ourselves.
HmmToo religious for me, I couldn’t relate much to the content as I don’t follow the same belief as the author’s
It is for people who want to encounter God on a deeper level, deeper being deeper than what they have encountered so far, whatever that may be for them.
He knows that the answers will be different for the different people walking the path.
He is all about finding God and walking with Christ in obedience and humility, but he allows room for The Holy Spirit to do its work where that is concerned.
He recognizes that he and his readers are on the same path and that we are both looking for answers at the same time.
A quick, good read. Not my favorite of Merton's works, his collected essays and 'Raids on the Unspeakable' probably take the cake there. Perhaps because I myself have little experience with solitude, I found this book a little hard to relate to or find relevant. Still, if you have a spare afternoon or evening, it is worth the read.
I enjoyed Merton's thoughts on interior life and the human need for reflection.
Nonetheless, being beaten over the head with phrases like, "A man knows when he has found his vocation" or "The Truth that a spiritual man seeks" or "The humble man ...
begs to be loved and helped by the liberality of his fellow men" has the effect of giving me nothing to which to relate and suggesting only men have vocations, only men are spiritual or lovable.
Merton's still worth a read for seekers, though.
I love reading honest books like this where the author speaks directly to your heart and basically reiterates what you already know but are too afraid of bringing to life."To keep ourselves spiritually alive we must constantly renew our faith.
The spiritual life is, then, first of all a matter of keeping awake.
Meditation is one of the ways in which the spiritual man keeps himself awake.
It requires unending courage and perseverance, and those who are not willing to work at it patiently will finally end in compromise.
Here, as elsewhere, compromise is only another name for failure."
a purely mental life may be destructive if it leads us to substitute thought for life and ideas for action.
A great book, though a bit preachy at times. I found that even as a non-christian, I could understand most of Merton's message in the first half. The second half was a bit too preachy, though.
Read it every year on my birthday.
This wonderful, short but sweet, book is chalked full of amazing wisdom on silence and solitude. Great for anyone wanting to deepen their contemplative prayer.
Merton makes an insightful assertion about living a spiritual life, immediately points out the dangers of misinterpreting either his point or one's own feelings about his point, lays out the benefits of applying his thoughts to one's actions, and admits how difficult it is.
I love the guy and find his struggles with vices in his personal life both endearing and a good supplement to his writing.
But the most important thing to remember is that even disliking Merton as a person is alright as long as it isn't affecting the way you live your life.
It is not a conquering of the "true self" over the body, but rather a submission of the whole self - mind and body - to the will of God. Merton also states that solitude is accessible to any person at any time in the silent stillness of their inner life - a space where ones thoughts and emotions are known only to himself and to God.I am reminded of a quote - you may have heard it -Reporter: "what do you say when you pray?"Mother Theresa "I listen"R: "and what does God say?"MT: "He listens."Merton suggests, perhaps arrogantly, that a solitary life is among the highest spiritual vocations.
Namaste - "I pray to the Divinity within you."Merton seems to be drawn to solitude because as a member of society he is overwhelmingly tempted to sin.
That sounds probably more complicated then he put it but if I don’t think I would read anything else by Thomas Merton but I did read this and I wanted to see how he would construe things and I got a glimpse into his mind.
So I agree with Thomas Merton on this although I didn’t know he had written anything about emotions showing off the character of God. I like learning new ideas.
I don’t know about that but I wanted to see how this guy thinks because someone many years and I said then that I would read his books.
Some of the language he uses as well is uncommon for the times (published in 1956), at least in the Christian world I was taught about: like genderless references to God ("Being itself"), which I appreciated.As always, his anti-violence in any form (interior or exterior) draws me deeper into his writing.
"The delicate action of grace in the soul is profoundly disturbed by all human violence...Violence is not completely fatal until it ceases to disturb us.""The God of peace is never glorified by violence."
