https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2012.Whipping_Star
Original.Whipping Star by Frank Herbert, first published in 1970, explores among many things the complexities of communication; heightened by hyperbole as between xenological species but also as an allegory for human relations.
Reading passages in this book was akin to that experience, yet Herbert uses it as an illustration of the frailty of relational semantics.
From reading other Herbert creations, I cannot believe that this was intentional, yet there it was, kind of a Monty Python sensibility.
After decades of reading science fiction, I wish that I had paid more attention in math class.
Closer yet to a realistic treatment would be Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land, where the Mars-raised human, Valentine Michael Smith, knew the words and syntax of English, but that was no guarantee of clear communication because his whole way of thinking and set of experiences was so vastly different than an Earthling's.Heinlein is the first SF author who appears to have honestly thought the thing through, and Herbert takes it to a whole different level in Whipping Star.
It's still more than worth the read, though, if you're into science fiction that makes you think.
I've only read some of his Dune books, so I thought to expand a bit. This wasn't really worth the effort. I think it's supposed to be a farce about communication. If so, the humor part mostly passed me by. What was left seemed more mental masturbation than story. There were some ingenious aliens, but that was about it.
Our protagonist, Jorg McKie, is an agent of the delightfully conceived Bureau of Sabotage, whose purpose is to slow down the workings of government, and whose agents are a mixture of spies and diplomats.The story is thus a kind of hybrid police procedural and space opera, which means tons of action (multiple transdimensional beheadings), scheming, investigation, alien worlds, aliens, and high technology.
There's a kind of gleeful invention, almost a lightheartedness, I don't recall from any other Herbert novel.Now I'm off to reread Dosadi Experiment, the next book in this universe, and in good time.
The means for Fannie Mae's "dissolution" is via a ritual flogging (the "whipping" part of the book title) whose nature McKie must understand in time to prevent the end of sentient life.
If this sounds like a big pill of disbelief, it is, and needs much of the unguent of Herbert's story-telling ability for readers to swallow.Although the overall framework of the book is that of a mystery, the bulk of the narrative focuses on the development of communications between McGie and Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae can perceive McGie only as the smallest component, an accelerated molecule.
McGie must recognize the true nature of Fannie Mae despite the strange use of jargon by the alien (leaving readers with new appreciation for the use of "connectives", "discontinuity" and "dissolution").
2.5 stars. Not in the same category as the Dune series (but what it). Overall, a decent to good story and some very good writing, especially in the conversations between the human and alien characters.
Many elements are necessary for the creation of an SF book, however, one of my personal favorites is the ability of the author to create either a being, or a society, so alien that I find myself hard put to understand it.
To understand the book, one must first look at the society on which it is based.
A society composed of myriad planets, inhabited by several different sentient life-forms.
The main protagonist, McKie, elite operative of the Bureau of Sabotage, is chosen to solve the problem of the dying Caledans and the subsequent deaths or insanity of sentients connected to them.
This Frank Herbert fella wrote the book Dune which was a semi sleeper for me as it walked around this barren planet with some aristocracy stuff going on, got to try to read it again maybe I'm missing something?This other "WHIPPING STAR" is swell though.
That's the beginning of the book folks, there's a fertile pile of concepts that go with each alien race introduced with the idea of if everyone was isolated to their own system what the hell would happen.
If it dies, anyone who has used its abilities, which means nearly every known sentient being in the universe, will die with it because they are all now "connected." This sentient being has entered into a binding contract with a woman in order to learn about life in our dimension.
Unfortunately, this woman is a sadist and wants to aid in its death for reasons of her own.
If you've read Dune, you'll know that Frank Herbert is a great author and I doubt many other authors could have pulled off a book like this.If you're in the mood for a short and just plain weird piece of sci-fi, I'd recommend Whipping Star.
Whipping Star is one of Frank Herbert’s non-Dune books that Tor has been reprinting in recent years. This 1970 novel is the first full novel in the ConSentiency universe, which up to this point consisted of only two short stories. Both of them are contained in the collection Eye and may very well be included in other short fiction collections. Like these short stories, Whipping Star features the unusually observant BuSab agent Jorj X. McKie as a main character. This universe is also the setting of what I consider to be Herbert’s best non-Dune book: Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I always sort of imagine Dune springing forth fully-formed from his head, but it’s obvious just from reading this that he had a career as a sci fi author, and that much of the work he published was simply not of the same caliber.
In order to make certain that the concepts are clear to the audience, Herbert uses the familiar formula of making his characters stupidly resist the obvious, so that it has to be spelled out over and over again.
This also gets annoying, although it’s clear enough that Herbert is trying to examine to limitations of linguistic communication and the possibility of sentient beings that exist without it.
I had started reading "The Dosadi Experiment," and realized that it was not the first book in the McKie (Saboteur Extraordinary) series.
So since I was pretty darn lost (after 40+ pages), decided to back up and read "Whipping Star" to get a handle on the basic story/recurring characters.
By the end of "Whipping Star," while I felt less lost, I still didn't get the impression I really grasped what the heck was happening in this story.
I finished the book, and went back to finish "The Dosadi Experiment," but would not recommend as an enjoyable read.
I read this book as a part of Vintage SciFi Month and truly enjoyed it. Yet again Frank Herbert is proven to be a master at his craft. As with others of his books this one is primarily dialogue and quite philosophical. I will post more in the review on my website.
The idea of sentience is critical to understanding this story. What makes a being sentient? What truly is pain? How can we relate to something so vast; we can't even quantify it? Whipping Star is a life or death struggle to answer these questions and more.
Which is true, but I resent reading this book.McKie is a Saboteur Extraordinary of the Bureau of Sabotage, a strange governmental body which has grown like a cross between a vital hormonal gland in the galactic government, throwing sand in the works of a machinery of government that is too perfect.
His vital mission this time is to sabotage the whipping to death of a Caleban at the hands of an evil and supremely rich woman.
The Whipping Star focuses around communication with the Caleban, who clearly does not perceive space-time in the same way we do, with all the grace of a sophomore physics major in the depths of a DMT trip (trust me on this one).
The prose - it's Herbert after all, is dense, intense, often confusing (frequent re-reads), but full of the excitement of ideas, by a very good writer.A sample quote for starters:"Once, long centuries past, ...
sentients with a psychological compulsion to "do good" had captured the government.
I leave the rest of the story for everyone else to read, but it's definitely something I'd like to see onscreen, perhaps by Guillermo del Toro, because in addition to the political philosophy, it's a stomping great action book with the best aliens I've ever encountered, aside from Larry Niven's (another author to bring to the Desert Island).
Whipping Star‘s plot more or less boils down to this: a sadistic, psychotic woman with vast amounts of wealth – who was obliged to undergo conditioning so she wouldn’t be able to tolerate seeing pain in others anymore – has her minions nonetheless whip (with an actual bullwhip) a godlike alien (visible to humans as a small star the size of a big football & the shape of a spoon) that has the power to transport everything across space & time in the blink of an eye.
The title "Whipping Star", I thought, was going to have some fascinating metaphorical meaning, but nope, it actually involves someone using a leather whip on a shining bright ball of gas in space.
The ball of gas in question is actually a life-form called a Caleban, which exists on another plane or dimension of existence, and I'm still not quite clear as to why the character actually has a thing for whipping the creature.
It's implied that there is some weird sexual thrill that comes from whipping a Caleban.
Oh, and the Caleban in question is named Fanny Mae, and she's in love with McKie. I'm stifling laughter (badly) with every keystroke of this summary.
Herbert gives a crisis, which seems completely unmotivated, like the actions of most of the characters, that you just can't seem to care about.
The few good ideas which seem to be floating around the book never break their way out of the background and ultimately go unexplored by a book which seems simultaneously too short and abounding with verbiage.At the same time though, I kept reading it.
And I kept wanting to read it.
Because it's Frank Herbert and because I need to read all of those quotes that begin the chapters, and for some reason all of those reasons listed above seem detract less in his writing than they would with other authors.
A galactic dominatrix flogs the last living member of a species that makes real-time travel across light-years possible.
Thing is, if that thing dies under the perverse ministrations of the galactic dominatrix who is whipping it, everyone who has ever traveled using this creature (basically every sentient being in the galaxy) will die.I am not kidding.
I don't want to give too much away, but it is also a great exploration of third forces in politics (there's a subculture of saboteurs that keep a little chaos injected into galactic government) and, with a sort of nonchalance atypical of science fiction, multi-species interactions.
That's probably the meat of the book: how we interpret something utterly and alienally alien.
And how it interprets us.
...I thought Whipping Star is one of the more interesting novels by Herbert I have read.
It is not a very heavy read like some of his other works, but definitely worth my time.
The short tempered McKie makes for an interesting character.
There are some parallels with Lewis Orne, main character in the novel The Godmakers as well as number of short stories, but McKie is much better developed.
His humanity gives the reader a firm anchor in the ConSentiency, with it’s numerous alien characters.
This universe may not have the epic scope of Dune but it is definitely worth looking into...Full Random Comments review
I listened to this book on a playaway from the library and it was quite good.
The way the main "alien" species communicates with the other sentients of Herbert's worlds makes for a lot of hilarious, sometimes grimly so, miscommunication.
The main character is a hard-boiled type, but he works for the bureau of sabotage, which does all it can to keep the governments on their toes--an interesting premise.
The various quotes at the beginnings of chapters, from various species, are gems.
I'm going to have to get the book out so I can write some of those quotes down.
A masterpiece of a short book.
A page turner from start to finish, Whipping Star condenses the herbert experience into a tight, well-implemented package.
Smart dialogue, incredible world building, exotic aliens and customs, and an interesting plot.
This book is very well edited, i didnt think the book spent too much time in one particular area in negligence of others.The ending is a little short, but its at least its not a cliffhanger.
More detail could have been put into Athnea, i think her character had more potential, but it did not hold back the enjoyment of the book.I can't wait to read the Dosadi Experiement
It was an amazing journey in the realms of psychology and philosophy, centered on solipsism or at least in conjecture with it.Our reality exist only in our mind, but what kind of reality is there outside our mind? How could we explore a reality outside our minds? Aristotle, Plato, Frege, Wittgenstein, Russell, even John Ellis and others tried to understand it and we see this struggle from a different perspective in this book, in a fictional universe. I highly recommend it to introspective people.
Don't remember it that much since it was a long time ago that I read it. Seems like I enjoyed it though. Date read is a guess.
Another thing to note, is a lot of the humor is language based.Some more about the book: The book rests on and deals with the limits of communication and language, both between humans and even more so, between alien species.
The rich woman gathers friends on an Ark and continues plan to destroy most living things, because of misunderstanding letting her think she and her companions will survive by going to the past.Calebans are entities whose physical form in our "dimension", or at least part of it, is a star/sun.
Frank Herbert excels at the creation of truly alien, incomprehensible cultures, and it is this problem of communication that is the heart of the superb novel, Whipping Star.
For several decades, the peoples of the ConSentiency have taken advantage of advanced technology provided to them by a new race called the Caleban.
McKie, learns that the disappearances and deaths are connected, and if the last Caleban in the universe disappears or dies (a phrase the Caleban refers to as “ultimate discontinuity”) all people (99% of the ConSentiency) who have used a jump door will also die.
I didn't finish this book.
I got about 1/4 of the way into before it became too stupid to bear.
The story then moves on to magic aliens who can move people anywhere in the universe.
One of these aliens enters into a contract that will kill it.
So most of the sentient life in the galaxy is about to die and the main character and woman bringing about this mass murder enter into a legal debate which she apparently wins.
I don't know for certain because that was when this book became TO STUPID TO BEAR.
I wobbled between two and three stars for this one.
As a massive Dune fan, I was hoping for something similar with Whipping Star, since this is also scifi by Herbert.
It definitely isn't similar.
Herbert's stellar (no pun intended) world-building still shines through, but the story lacked solid coherence.
The plot was frankly ridiculous, but it was treated in such a serious way that I kind of wondered if I was missing something important.
By far the best part of the novel is the linguistic gymnastics two wildly different aliens must go through in order to communicate.
A member of a branch of government specifically responsible for disrupting government finds himself in an investigation of a woman who has secured a BDSM contract with an inter-dimensional alien in order to both fulfill her sexual desire for flogging, and, as a bonus, bring about the apocalyse.
She needs this alien because she has been modified in a way that makes her incapable of causing suffering to any sentient being, and these aliens exist on all planes and don't have any obvious sentience.
Also, these aliens manifest visually as stars.
If that doesn't sell you on this book, then nothing will.Read.
Book.
