https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3384.Girlfriend_in_a_Coma
This short novel was based on the usual dystopian world picture: everyone is dead and at least until the few good survivors can get their act together and "go back to the land" they scavenge.
If you aren't going to read the book, here's the ending: (view spoiler)[The whole world can be restored as it was and the girl can be the sacrificial offering to the gods who control life and death and slip back into her coma.
Other than I fear that this book was a complete and utter waste of my precious time.Ok...
the beginning was reasonable, but the ending...
[oh Lord!]...the ending was not only extremely disapponting....
I personally didn't get to know enough about any of the characters to care about them.At times I was unsure whether or not I had been transported to a parallel universe where all books were shallow, yet supposedly deep, self-mocking, yet pretentiously inspired with wit and contemporary humour....
even my enemies.Indeed I couldn't wait to finish this book and throw it away.
The first half of this book was a really interesting and well-written novella about loss, grief, and loneliness and the rippling impact of tragedy.
I was even willing to suspend disbelief to allow the title character to (against all odds) wake from her coma after seventeen years.
But then the book just went off the rails.
The "apocolypse" was overly preachy, simplistic, and just silly.
I can hardly express how disappointed I was with the final 100 pages or so.
Without giving away too much plot, I'll say that the very end was rather touching, but didn't come close to making up for the utterly ridiculous sci-fi turn that the book took.
I would like the three hours I spent reading this back.
bah. direi che il romanzo si può decisamente non leggerlo, tutt'al più (se proprio proprio) ascoltatevi gli smiths:https://youtu.be/bQPN07nqT3g(non metto il video ufficiale perché è brutto come solo i video ufficiali degli anni ottanta sapevano essere). detto ciò, questo libro ha un record. ovverosia il miglior rapporto tra bei titoli e quantità di pagine consacrate a una storia mediocre. alcuni dei miei capitoli preferiti:niente sesso niente soldi niente libero arbitrioin futuro tutto costerà caroil passato è una pessima idealasciate un messaggiotre due uno zeropeccato che i titoli siano un'attività extracurricolare, douglas. non vado oltre le due stelle.
I actually started this book two years ago while in New York City with my ex-boyfriend; oddly, it still smells like his apartment two years later.
In a book about a group of aimless friends who fall apart after their friend goes into an inexplicable coma at 17, we see the end of the world.
Two days later and sober, I still feel the pull to ask more, to do more, to enjoy more so I’m going to give this one to Coupland instead of the chocolate stout.
I found the characters in this book fully realized, in some cases tremendously sensual, and in all cases talking about things that I am curious about.
This book blew me away, again articulating what had been my intuited sense of my generation's reality.
"A thousand years ago this wouldn't have been the case.
If human beings had suddenly vanished a thousand years ago, the planet would have healed overnight with no damage...
The only thing that can keep the planet turning smoothly now is human free will forged into effort.
That's why the world has seemed so large in the past few years, and time so screwy.
These two stars are given  only  because of the nice and catchy beginning of the book. The rest just had me like "Why am I even reading this?"
I REALLY loved this book, and it went to many different places than expected. It was a combination of genres, and despite being written in 1997 or so, FELT very immediate. I have a lot more to say, but I am currently listening to an audiobook on my headphones and find it hard to write whilst listening to a different book at the same time! (Yes...I might have a 'problem' when it comes to my voracious reading...) --Jen from Quebec :0)
From what I've read, this seems to be the least popular of Coupland's novels.
The problem, I think, is that it feels like several books mushed together: there's the Jared-the-ghost plot (similar but less effective than dead!Cheryl's narration in  Hey Nostradamus!), the late '70s vs.
Not a "I regret reading this" mess, but as all of the really good bits are pretty much replicated in his other works, it does feel kind of extraneous.
I mean, Coupland's written something like ten novels and a bunch of non-fiction, so unless you're a completist (which I am) there's really no reason to read this particular book.
Anyway, I got this at the Brokelyn Book Swap last month and I can't pick it up without the Smiths song digging into my head, which is fine now but will probably get really old really fast.*** I unfortunately took like a two-week break from this book to read Bone, which is especially shitty because I was less than twenty pages from the end of Girlfriend in a Coma when I decided to do that.
Or maybe that's all of his books.Anyway, I wish I'd known to read this in high school, or early college, when this sort of post-apocalyptic fantasy and wide-eyed philosophical meandering would have probably appealed to me a lot more.
Пусть говорят, что книга о банальном: о том, что мы разучились общаться, зацикливаемся на нестоящих того вещах, эгоистичны, живем впустую. Но мы также живем, зачастую, эти банальности не замечая, не осмысляя их, совершая глупейшие ошибки, потому-то и стоит говорить о простых вещах. Запомнился роман замечательной динамикой, изменяющейся по ходу повествования, словно это не книга вовсе, а музыкальное произведение, которое длительное время развивается, томя и подготавливая слушателя, а потом выливается в мощную концовку, стремительно заканчиваясь и оставляя тебя на минутку в ступоре, позволяя мыслями "догнать" себя.
Karen, the girlfriend of the title, sinks into a coma in 1979 and awakes almost 20 years later.
As she recovers, the world ends.
For two thirds of the book, I thoroughly enjoyed Couplands quite unusual narrative (which frequently shifts narrator) and great characters (and of course, the numerous Smiths song titles scattered all over the text).
The final third of the book really goes nowhere, the author and myself obviously have very different views of the 90's, and the ending feels to hurried (which is strange, since it is a short novel and, as mentioned, the first 2/3s are really good) and is kind of disappointing.
This was probably my favorite aspect of the book because it gave me a little thrill whenever I discovered one.
The story has a group of friends left at the end of the world to try and figure out what went wrong and how they can survive.
I found myself sucked in, and I flew through it after the half-way point, but overall I was a little disappointed.
It takes on a preachy tone towards the end that rubbed me the wrong way and wraps things up in a way I expected but wasn’t hoping for.
(read in 1998)
First of all, sorry Kenny!I really wanted to like this book, as I've wanted to read it for ages and when I was younger I used to LOVE Douglas Coupland, but it has become obvious now that some lovers should remain in the past.
An example; around the same age as I was going through my Coupland phase, my favourite band were The Ataris.
Take that, 15 year old me!As a result, both the writings of Coupland and the lyrics of The Ataris now feel simply like weak tributes to JD Salinger.
Uggh, the book took forever to read.
It would've been better to have read the story in 1997 as originally planned.
Douglas Coupland has a way with words, very clever.
The plotting and characterization in this book does not live up to his phrasing.
It can't be easy to write a book about nihilistic characters because their very nature is dull.
He succeeded in some parts, and I wouldn't say failed, but something in that family, in other parts (Well, that was a messy sentence.
I'm very happy I finally got around to reading it, and I would definitely read his other books (the current ones at least).
This book started out with an intriguing premise: what would happen if a teenage girl fell into a coma, and then her boyfriend found out she was pregnant?
It's well written, and everything's going along pretty well until BAM (spoiler) it turns into an apocalyptic "The Stand" type book right out of the blue.
That's a completely different kind of emotional drama than I was prepared for.
I plan to go back and reread this book, this time understanding what's coming.
I imagine I'll have an entirely different opinion the next time around.
What starts off as a moderately interesting book with a clever story and filled with pop culture references, the book delves into this annoying, dreary and deviating,rant(and I stress the word rant)about 'life' and 'it's meaning' and the ending is just bad, and just a huge bunch of annoying and forgettable characters who are depressed for no particular reason and seem depressed even when there is meant to be joy. An annoying book that does not provoke 'deeper thoughts' and 'questions about life', just anger and frustration at what happens when dickheads write a book.
My reaction after finishing the book:
This book went somewhere I never expected it to go, and I'm not sure how I feel about that.I started reading this book a few years ago, got around halfway through, and for some unknown reason never picked it up again until now.
I don't like overly preachy books, and although I can't be sure if this was Coupland's own opinions of the world and life, it came across a bit too strongly for my liking.
I found the ending to be a bit meh and disappointing.Overall this is probably my favourite Coupland book I've read, but his books always feel like they are a little lacking in places.
17-year-old Karen goes into a 17-year-coma after having sex with her boyfriend.
She seems perfectly normal when she wakes, except she talks about the world coming to an end.The first half of the book basically revolves around the people in Karen's life after she goes into the coma, the second part deals with life after her reawakening, and the third part, well, you don't want me to give that away do you?This still had the same "what is the meaning of this sad, sad life?" theme, but I think it was much better presented in this book.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Parts 1 and 2 of this book, but the last hundred pages or so felt like I was trapped in a bad post-apocalytic movie.
It felt like Coupland didn't really know how to give this book an ending.
And there were some parts that just depressed me for some reason.
This being the first novel if his that I read, I would probably wait a month or so before diving into his other books.
I was planning on reading Generation X right after this, but I don't think that's happening.
I need something FUN to read right after this.
Coupland at his most heavy-handedly didactic and moralistic. Irritating in a manner surpassed only by the inanity of All Families Are Psychotic.
Not what I expected. A morality lesson. Blechhh.
The following initial section of the book is told by Richard, a character whom I did not find particularly interesting; the story which he relates, however, does have quite a lot of depth to it.Whilst the concept within Girlfriend in a Coma is undoubtedly of interest, I did not feel as though the novel was quite as well realised as it could have been.
Regardless, my first foray into Coupland's work hasn't made me write him off; I would like to read another of his books, but hope that the magical realism, and ridiculous decisions which characters make, doesn't get too in the way of what could be an incredibly good and well thought out story.
I find the overall concept for the novel to be quite intriguing; even so, I think how Coupland develops his ideas and concepts are ineffective and confusing.
When Karen wakes up from her coma, she has a prophecy which is definitely an aspect of science fiction.
In my opinion, Coupland’s mixing of genres is an ineffective way to develop his ideas.
Although Coupland has various creative ideas, his refusal to use one consistent genre results in a poorly developed premise which in the beginning was interesting; however, by the end of the novel, just became frustrating and virtually incomprehensible.
I'm still trying to sort out how I feel about this book, and Douglas Coupland in general.
I loved 'Life After God' when I first read it, 10 or so years ago, and I really, really, really wanted to love 'Hey, Nostradamus,' more recently.
I'm scared because Coupland's books are full of bright-eyed, youthful ideas on the world, and I was absolutely that person 10 years ago.
It's so frustrating.Reading the end of this book, there's a scene where a major character is describing how the rest of the main characters should be.
As a writer, he is able to talk about life by coming at it sideways through larger-than-life characters in insane situations.Coupland sets much of the story during the end of the world, but it's not about the end of the world so much as it's about the characters.
They are all round, three dimensional people who undergo great changes, both prior to the world's end and after it.
Their lives suck.Girlfriend in a Coma starts off strange--then gets stranger, culminating in the end of the world.
As usual, Coupland communicates it in style.On another level, the book is a character study of a man, his daughter, and his girlfriend.

