https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132435.Learning_from_Las_Vegas
His symbolical relativism more or less diminishes every formal masterpiece ever constructed, and he praises Las Vegas for being the ideal architectural environment for efficiently accommodating urban automobile culture.
In a way, Venturi's text is written by that of a complete postmodern provocateur, single-handedly justifying ugliness in architecture "after modernism".Signs are important in Venturi and Brown's (his wife Denise Scott Brown) study of Las Vegas architecture.
This book is full of suggestions, and to me the most important when in an architectural sense was to see the metaphorical or symbolical value of these structures and their usefulness.
Goodreads.com lists the sole author of Learning from Las Vegas  as Robert Venturi but, in fact, it was co-authored with Denise Scott Brown and Steven Izenour. Don't be surprised if Jack Reacher suddenly shows up at the goodreads.com headquarters and sees that justice is served in the name of the overlooked authors. Consider this a firm premonition.
Essential book 4 dezigners. Not sure if I like it more than "Complexity and Contradiction" but it's still pretty great.
I was disappointed.
Some of this disappointment is practical; in trying to save money on this edition, they went too far, and shrank the illustrations too much, to the point where I genuinely can't see what's going on in many of them (several pages have multiple, tiny b&w photos on them, with crappy contrast).
And some of my disappointment may come from familiarity with many of the authors' basic arguments--they're not new to me, which isn't really this book's fault (then again, I did not have that reaction when I recently read Jane Jacobs' The Death and Life of Great American Cities, and I'm well acquainted with her ideas).But really, much of this just seemed boring and superficial.
Had to read this for my Theories of Popular Culture class for English. The best thing about this book are the old photos of the now "Old" Las Vegas Strip. I especially enjoyed comparing the aerial photos of the 1979 Strip to modern day Google Map and Wiki images. Venturi's duck and decorated shed were also fun to learn about and our teacher encouraged us to examine our own city for similar architectural theory. I learned a lot.
I still think about this one all the time, years later.
Truly brilliant and epochal theory/criticism from a guy who, in the end, like so many brilliant theoreticians, turned out to be a crap architect himself.
The poetry does not matter'...'”§ LAS VEGAS LIGHTING"The gambling room is always very dark; the patio, always very bright.But both are enclosed: The former has no windows, and the latter isopen only to the sky.
Time is limitless, because the light of noon and midnight are exactly the same.
Space is limitless, because the artificial light obscuresrather than defines its boundaries (Fig. 51).
Walls and ceilings do not serve as reflective surfaces for light but ~re made absorbent and dark.
Space is enclosed but limitless, becauseits edges are dark.
Light sources, chandeliers, and the glowing, jukebox~-like gambling machines themselves are independent of walls and ceilings.
3.5 stars. It's a book that would be very helpful to someone studying architecture/architectural history. The concept of "the duck, and the decorated shed" are fundamental yet quite interesting. The illustrations and tables are very 60s polsci though and gave me plenty of flashbacks. Quite interesting.
Książka wyszła w Polsce jakieś 40 lat po pierwszym wydaniu w Stanach. Cóż wiec może w niej być nowego? Nowego może nic, ale sprawia, ze ma się ochotę kupić bilet i polecieć do Vegas żeby patrzeć na szyldy (których już nie ma). W wersji budżetowej można też wybrać się w podróż Siódemką.
Post Modernist approach to symbols... Consumerism seal !
Simply brilliant
Outdated by today's standards, too academic and unenlightening to be worth the read. Historically significant I was told
bored me to death.
Un gran ensayo que marcó la arquitectura cuando se publicó en 1972, y que sigue siendo muy influyente en la actualidad.
En él se hace una crítica a la arquitectura moderna y se profundiza en por qué ésta no ha llegado a la gente, a las grandes masas.
Para ello se nutre de un análisis minucioso de las Vegas, de las de 1970, para entender qué tiene la arquitectura de las Vegas que no tenga la arquitectura moderna que guste tanto a la gente.
Un ensayo muy interesante que nos hace reflexionar sobre la arquitectura moderna planteando lo que sería la base de la posmodernidad.Reseña en mi blog: https://divagacionesylibros.wordpress...
While stating the obvious, Venturi captivates the post modern mentality. A world shaped by what we worship is a world that we will inhabit gleefully. Capitalism and comfort born as sign posts and ducks, I willingly will step foot into Las Vegas with a new appreciation for the tackiness of Caesars.
my favorite entry is on page 69, a message to the Strip Beautification Committee from author-theorist Robert Venturi, which includes a drawing of a section of the strip based at the Dunes and suggestions for improvement.
Between the two drawings of the Dunes cross-section and an illustration of the "vulgarity" of the Tropicana sign, Venturi has drawn a large NO inside a circle with arrows pointing to both drawings.
On that same page, he has drawn YES inside a heart next to his bracketed suggestions for Strip Beautification.
Nunca me ha gustado eso de coger una obra propia para hacer una comparación y decir lo que está bien y lo que no.
La de GG Reprints se veía demasiado pequeña para un libro que es mitad texto, mitad imágenes.
Esta nueva edición revisada está mucho mejor, es bastante grande y parece que incluso tiene más fotos en color que la anterior; además, la encuadernación va cosida y el diseño está muy cuidado.
Sin embargo, mientras algunas imágenes se ven estupendamente grandes, el par de tablas de fotos que aparecen y algunos esquemas siguen quedando bastante pequeños (con fotos de apenas 15x15mm o menos).
De nuevo lo que debemos añadir aquí es que la austeridad funcionalista moderna siempre es reflexiva; también comunica un significado: la «funcionalidad» de un elevado edificio moderno es el mensaje que emana del edificio.
No se trata simplemente de que sea funcional, sino que se declara a sí mismo como tal, pero con la ironía de que esta declaración a menudo se produce a expensas de la verdadera funcionalidad del edificio.
Los edificios modernos diseñados sin ningún ornamento superfluo, simplemente para cumplir su función, acaban precisamente por no cumplir sus declaradas funciones; la gente que vive en ellos se siente a menudo limitada e incómoda.
Kto by pomyślał -- wydawać książkę o Las Vegas w samym środku modernistycznego boomu, kiedy królują zamknięte systemy i idealne rozwiązania, wszystko jest białe oraz minimalistyczne, a jeżeli nie jest białe, to przynajmniej z surowego betonu.
Trochę sobie żartuję, bo tak naprawdę uważam, że moment jest doskonały, w sam raz, aby rozruszać dogmatyków i spojrzeć z innej perspektywy na "dekorowane budy" kasyn, przy okazji ucząc się wyrozumiałości dla wyklinanego po stokroć przez normatywistycznych estetów "złego smaku".Co jest miłym zaskoczeniem, Autorzy, całkowicie świadomi zalet najwybitniejszych budynków modernistycznych oraz roli modernizmu w historii architektury, nie urządzają żadnego polowania na czarownice.
An excellent if at times repetitive work.
Some highlights:By limiting itself to strident articulations of the pure architectural elements of space, structure, and program, Modern architecture's expression has become a dry expressionism, empty and boring - and in the end irresponsible.
Ironically, the Modern architecture of today, while rejecting explicit symbolism and frivolous appliqué ornament, has distorted the whole building into one big ornament.
In substituting "articulation" for decoration, it has become a duck.
103)andThe familiar that is a little off has a strange and revealing power.
130)Not quite good as Complexity and Contradiction but indeed better than most.
An excellent interpretive jumpstart for the scores of urban-vetted visiting LA who say, I just don't get it. We don't have a Brooklyn Bridge or iconic harbor or subway line running through Old Town, but there is a character that identifies itself as a city. A drive of aspiration runs rampant. Venturi and Scott Brown give voice to the underlying (commercial) forces that defy architectural/urban uniformity but very much infiltrate the landscape, tangibly, pervasively, a way of reevaluating the emerging development pattern that is more intelligent than a routine write-off to sprawl.
"Architectural theories of the short run tend toward the idealization and generalization of expediency. Architecture for the long run requires creation, rather than adaptation, and response to advanced technology and sophisticated organization ...Although architects have not wished to recognize it, most architectural problems are of the expedient type, and the more architects become involved in social problems, the more this is true." -p.129
It would be a 3.5 if half stars existed. The book is more fun than required reading. I saw it at a conference recently, having heard the authors a few years ago speak about the impact the book has had as well as the struggles the authors had writing it. Overall the idea is interesting, looking at Vegas as a metaphor for post WWII design and planning. The book has some great illustrations of signage and massing of buildings, which translate well. Overall it was a good afternoon read.
Quality. For an architectural theory book it's top notch. I've never been to Vegas myself, but after reading this, I think my experience would be somewhat colored. It's amazing how few people even realize what Vegas represents. How ignorant and selfish has society become? Even if architectural symbolism isn't your thing, this will open your eyes to how our society has evolved around the automobile.
I've wanted to read this since college. Now I have and it it an honest and thorough analysis of the system of signs that is the architecture of Las Vegas. It's importance, of course, is not in what it says about Vegas but in what it says about a way of thinking about architecture and what is valid subject matter for architectural analysis.
"When Modern architects righteously abandoned ornament on buildings, they unconsciously designed buildings that were ornament. [...] It is all right to decorate construction but never construct decoration" (163).Provocative stuff, and intensely relevant to graphic design, but I still couldn't give you a comprehensible definition of a "duck".
A brilliant primary text that any student of architecture should immediately read, it will inform you and set you on a path of learning at the highest level. Venturi's practice - Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates - and their approach to design is world-leading and this book demonstrates the clarity of thought and intelligence they apply to this pursuit.
I'm not an architect or an architecture student so I was unfamiliar with much of the vernacular and some of the concepts were over my head. I had to read this book for a theory class and, while I'm not familiar with architecture, it was a well-written book full of interesting theories. It definitely makes me look at buildings and signs differently.
Although Learning from Las Vegas is 37+ years old, much of the theory holds relevant. Venturi and folks criticism of modern buildings relates to much of what is still being created today. Bearers of the sustainable design flag could learn something from reading this book and applying ideas about vernacular, ornament, and decorated sheds to all fields of production and industry.
