https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/448873.The_Thief
Oh, thank gods, I thought. They’re going to leave me. All I want to do was lie in a dry prickly grass with my feet in a ditch forever. I could be a convenient sort of milemarker, I thought. Get to the thief and you know you are halfway to Methana. Wherever Methana might be. The Thief is a high fantasy with, like any other high fantasy on this planet, a journey the characters undertake. Gen, the main character was a pleasant surprise. While I first thought he was a feminine character, I was prov
Gen, the main character was a pleasant surprise.
While I first thought he was a feminine character, I was proved wrong quite early in the story.
That’s because many have compared this to Graceling and, as we know, that book’s lead character is a girl.But I loved male Gen. I was enchanted by his quick-witted personality and humour.
It’s all about the GODS people believed or did not believe in… Who they were… How they became gods… But I wanted to know more about the people themselves, the places and the kings and queens.
Clearly, I thought he would end up with Sophos.
Let me just say, if you feel so-so about this book (like I did), please give its sequel - The Queen of Attolia - a try.
(view spoiler)[The reviewers like to point to a huge twist at the end of the story as the biggest reason for enjoying this book.
Turner shows a great command of English language, there is simply no word wasted in this story.
Turner's books are highly recommended by Kristin Cashore, a great YA fantasy writer.
However my advice would be - don't waste your time searching for clues and anticipating the huge climax and just enjoy the great writing and skillfully built fantasy world.
My main reason for reading The Thief was so I could read the sequel - The Queen of Attolia - that I've heard is superb and far better than this first installment. I actually set myself up for quite an underwhelming experience with this book based on reviews and the fact that I'm not the biggest fan of more traditional fantasy with magical realms and such (I never could stand The Lord of the Rings). However, the story was interesting, the writing excellent and the protagonist was a witty, deviou
I actually set myself up for quite an underwhelming experience with this book based on reviews and the fact that I'm not the biggest fan of more traditional fantasy with magical realms and such (I never could stand The Lord of the Rings).
However, the story was interesting, the writing excellent and the protagonist was a witty, devious little narrator that kept me entertained throughout.I love the world that Turner has created, even though we've seen so little of it so far - this only served to further pique my interest.
I was introduced to a wonderful fantasy world, interesting characters, and a fast-paced plot, and it was all supported by Turner's talent for flawless writing.
a summary of this book in 20 words or less: first half - an obscenely long journey where literally nothing happens.second half - item stolen and it all.
off.as you can tell from my quick summary, the second half of this book is where its at.
you will get prison escapes, hot pursuits, clever planning, and not to mention more gen.
i really liked gen.
he was honestly my main reason for pushing through the first half of the book - i just had to see how his role in the story played out.overall, this was a pretty decent read.
Somehow a relatively short 280 pages ends up feeling more like 2800 pages while trudging through scene after scene of riding on horses, campfire chatting, and bickering.It was over halfway through the book before I really distinguished between all the side characters that weren't the Magus.
Gen even points out the Magus' inconsistency so honestly, I'm just now sure how I'm supposed to view these characters.Speaking of mythology, this book spends a lot of time exploring mythological characters of the realm & telling their stories, and much less time than I would've liked expanding the world.
Huh. I really, really liked this? True enough, I've decided to start The Thief in order to get to the sequels - that all my friends adore - and somehow I was at peace with the probable boredom I would feel during this first novel and... My enjoyment felt so  effortless?  From the characters to the world and the writing, I've been enchanted. Truly.  "I hate horses. I know people who think that they are noble, graceful animals, but regardless of what a horse looks like from a distance, never forge
Indeed the story's told through his POV, and having started The Queen of Attolia, which is told in 3rd person POV, I can say this : The sequel's writing is objectively more elaborate and I really enjoy getting to know other characters and seeing Gen through other people eyes, but in my opinion the choice of the first POV for this debut is perfect, needed, even, as it makes it so much easier to connect with Gen at first and I've never wanted to let go.
The magus, who is leading the group, is the only person in the group who knows what they are searching for and where it is hidden.In honor of the deep importance of mythology and the panoply of Greek-like gods in the tale of The Thief, several Greek gods and goddesses have graciously agreed to make guest appearances in this review, to add their brief thoughts and opinions regarding this book.
In fact, my favorite book in the whole series is the third, The King of Attolia.
Except with really good worldbuilding and a lot of potential built up.This novel follows Gen, a thief hired by a magus of Sunis to find a stone that gives the holder the right for rulership of Eddis.
(Am I the only one who spent around eight pages thinking him and Gen would be a thing?) The magus is a character I started out hating and ended up sort of liking.
I’ve heard a lot that the sequels to this get better, and I totally believe it — the worldbuilding here is so complex, so intricate, that a mediocre first book is almost needed to build it up.
Then, about half way through, the excitement and tempo increased a few notches, and it become a real page-turner.This is a fantasy novel, but it is not your typical swords and sorcery adventure.
In the first half of the book, we slowly get to know the characters through Gen's eyes, and learn something of the world where this story is set.
Midway through the book, just when it seems that the entire plot is going to be character-driven, the tempo increases dramatically.
All-in-all, a well-told story, with a good combination of plot, characters, and an interesting setting.Once again, my wife picked a winner.
1.5/5 stars Good riddance!!! I must have read a different book than everybody else had because I cannot for the life of me comprehend how this book has won any literal awards. As an avid fantasy reader I can tell you that this book is as close to a "riveting fantasy novel" as flour is to being a spice.Why flour you ask?Beuase it reminds me of this book - dry, bland and boring. And I really tried to tie this book all of the chances I could. I wanted to dnf it after 30 pages, but:1. I was told tha
I scored 4 books from this series at a thrift store for dirt cheap in mint condition, so I wanted to give it a chance before I donate all of them back and forget I ever wasted my time on them.
I'm not saying that I'm Sherlock Holmes (okay sometimes I pretend I am), but after reading many fantasy books that twist is not so twisty anymore - pretty standard trick, if you ask me.
​The book is a 280 pages, and it took me 9 days to read it.
Yes, it starts off slower than molasses. Yes, you will be perfectly misdirected by Ms Turner. Yes, you will wish to set it aside for these reasons. And all I can say is, Don't. Persevere.Because you absolutely need to read this book in order to get to the sequel, The Queen of Attolia, which is one of my fave books as well as having one of the best male protagonists of all time. Seriously, I love Gen to bits.Read this series.
I'm glad I heard that the sequels are better because I'm not sure I would've finished this otherwise. It's a decent high fantasy world with good writing, but the first half of the book is pretty slow. Gen basically gets out of prison, takes a bath, eats some oatmeal, and travels foreverrrr. The story also spends a lot of time establishing the gods... but it does pick up a bit by the end.So it's kind of slow and not particularly engaging, but that doesn't matter too much since it's a short read! I'll probably check out the sequel someday now.
Buddy read with some friends at  Buddies Books and Baubles   I am a master of foolhardy plans, I thought. I have so much practice I consider them professional risks.  EVERYONE told me not to expect much from this book and to be patient. They said the beginning isn’t very good but the second half is pretty good and the next two books are amazing…so just hang in there. Well I found that to be true and false at the same time.It is true the second half of this book is much more interesting, there is
Well I found that to be true and false at the same time.It is true the second half of this book is much more interesting, there is more going on action wise and the last 100 pages just fly by.
They are interesting lore stories but it is unclear how they fit into the book until later and almost felt like filler while I was reading them.
Boring interactions and dull protagonist with the plot I couldn't care less about.
The start reminds me a bit of "Throne of Glass" series and that's the only good thing about this book.
I'm not even a big fan of Throne of Glass.A thief named Gen got out from jail in order to help a Magus steal an ancient treasure.
When the identity of the thief is finally revealed I was occasionally interested in the plot, but not enough to care.
I wasn't interested in the world setting and didn't like any of the characters.
I think I hit upon the answer spoken by one of Turner's characters near the last weary lap of the book: "Oh, fine," I told him...but I didn't really care.
The characters never matter to me.
Gen, the thief, is so arrogant and obnoxious in playing his role that I could really care less about whether he succeeds.
And the other characters are never really fleshed out enough for them to matter to me either.
By the end of the book when the identity of the thief is finally revealed I began to have moments of interest, but not enough to be anxious to read the sequels.
This is a book that re-repays a re-re-read, not only soon, but after finishing its sequels once they widen one's view of its world and characters.There is not too much one can say about The Thief that is not a spoiler, and this is a book that should NOT be read with preconceptions.
Written as a first person memoir in Gen's engaging voice, it is classified as YA, and was a Newbery Honor book when it first came out in 1996, but really, I mention this mainly to make the book easier to find in a library or bookstore.
2 Stars and a mini review because I am the worstCons:- Super straight forward writing style that was unbelievably boring - Forgettable plot- Forgettable characters - An MC who doesn't take things seriously but also isn't funny Pros:- The last three pages- seriously they make it seem like this book was one really long prologue Overall:*shrugs* 🤷🏻♀ Read with my split-soul, Mary! 💖 (I will tag when not on mobillleeee)
2 Stars and a mini review because I am the worstCons:- Super straight forward writing style that was unbelievably boring - Forgettable plot- Forgettable characters - An MC who doesn't take things seriously but also isn't funny Pros:- The last three pages- seriously they make it seem like this book was one really long prologue Overall:*shrugs* 🤷🏻‍♀️ Read with my split-soul, Mary! 💖 (I will tag when not on mobillleeee)
There are also aspects that surprised me, in that the gods actually play a real role in this story.
I liked how the fantasy elements didn't dominate, but the focus is Gen's character and his quest to steal something that has the potential to affect three kingdoms in this novel.There was an interesting twist towards the end that I was not expecting at all, and I always give my respect to an author who can do that, and surprise me.
This book seemed promising but I ended up a bit underwhelmed. I'm still planning on continuing the series since it apparently gets better!
3.5The second half of the book totally made up for the slow start. I am very intrigued by this series now
There is significantly more action and the politics and worldbuilding introduced through section one starts to come into play.
In this section, Megan Whaler Turner turns your expectations on their head and if you liked the ending of The Fifth Season I think you'd like this book too (it's not the same thing, but it's got a similar vibe)
I would love to see the characters get fleshed out some more, but if that happened, and the political intrigue keeps on this trajectory, I think this could be a series I really enjoy.

Well written story and enjoyable in a meandering way. I enjoyed the mythology woven into the story. Gen was an engaging unreliable narrator.
3.75 StarsI enjoyed The Thief for the most part even though it took me a while to fully immerse myself in the story.
There was never a sense or urgency and for the first 100 pages or so I was bored.
So bored in fact I put it aside and read 4 other books in the meantime.
I am certainly glad I did because the last 80 pages of the story were absolutely enthralling and brilliant.
I think the author is the real thief here.
I will definitely be continuing on with the next book.
Me : I need to stop with that obsession with The Queen's Thief series and Eugenides.Also me : *downloads the first audiobook on Audible*Really though, I had no idea that Steve West narrated this book! Is it reason enough to listen to this less than a week after having read the book?  Absolutely. My review of the novel : here
It’s a wonderful and captivating story about a thief who is freed from prison to steal something only heard of in a fairy tale for the king.
I love when books are through in telling a story, but there is a thing as too much.I didn’t want to know every single detail.
Turner’s writing is easy to understand, but I think the book could have worked with less descriptiveness.
It is very slow paced, especially the first half, but this is the kind of series where the first book is just setting up for the second one, which I heard is far more superior in terms of story telling, writing, and character development.
That’s not true, whilst it did have its problems I did actually really like this book.
I loved learning about the gods along with the other characters and I really appreciated the clever way the author used storytelling in the book.
The characters and storytelling really helped keep my enjoyment levels up whilst reading.
I’m going to look out for more audiobooks narrated by Steve.
I’m glad that I have finally managed to make my way through this book.
I already own the second book which I shall be starting soon as I’m very interested in seeing where the story is going to go.
From the book synopsis and the author's writing style, this seemed like a blend of The Lies of Locke Lamora and partially Finnikin of the Rock.
What's not to love?To be fair, the story was less a swashbuckling adventure with extroverted plot twists, and more a contemplative and slow-moving character study.
Secrets are revealed, some more surprising than others, and the book takes twists and turns to end up in a place that I'd never expected.
Plus, considering how the book progressed, I found the twists and turns at the end erratic.
A solid three stars, and recommended for those who like meandering, journeying plot lines.
You know the ones: those that take over your heart and your mind, that even when you are reading you know that you are experiencing something unique, a connection with a story and its characters (that only serial readers can understand); those that you know will remain with you, forever.I experienced such rapture when I read The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss earlier in the year, and to my utter surprise and delight, again a few weeks ago when I finally read The Queen’s Thief series by Megan Whalen Turner.This series came under my radar only recently when Angie from Angieville started to blog about the books with not a little amount of excitement.
I love this book SO MUCH.The pacing, the plot set-up, the characters, the world... All of it is just SO GOOD.I feel like this is a book that fantasy writers should read to look for inspiration. Just so much of it is phenomenal. And it's short!! Well, short for a fantasy book. This review is short because there's not much more to say other than READ THIS BOOK.
