https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85990.Princess_Academy
Miri and younger Lola might’ve shared a stronger and more vivid level of connection and this latter probably would’ve eagerly pressed five stars as rating.
Something I can rarely find in YA novels.And this happened to be a good example of a book giving me this opportunity.
I’m rarely into situations in which a character is in love with her/his best friend but the author managed to make this one not sound cliché or annoyingly cheesy.
What I loved most about this book was the lyrical writing and relationship between Miri and Britta, whom she misjudged quite too quickly, and her own sister, Marda.
Yay?Most of the story follows Miri and the other village girls as they deal with a harsh, cold head mistress of the academy, and the competition between them to be the head of the class (which earns you the best dress at the princess ball, plus some other perks).
Miri deeply wants to be at the top of the class, but she's also conflicted because of her feelings for a boy back in the village.What I love about this book is that it's about more than just a competition to win the attention and heart of the prince.
Loved this book all over again!---MAY 2007: So the latest books I’ve read … I haven’t exactly enjoyed.
I’ve kind of missed that.But all that changed with Princess Academy!
Seriously … Princess Academy?
It is fairy-tale-ish, and happy endings abound, but none of those endings (even the romance) ended up being sickeningly unrealistic.I loved the themes of this book: education as a key to opportunity, diplomacy to work through problems, kindness to all (even when they don’t seem to deserve it) which leads to empathy and understanding.One of my favorite books I’ve read this year, hands down.
Sometimes you just want to take a break from endless angst and sexual tension of currently popular both adult and YA books and read something light and inoffensive.
The fairy tale is very imaginative and teaches many valuable lessons (importance of education is among many of them), but never in a preachy way.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found myself extending my walks and slowing my driving just to continue listening to this excellent full cast audio.
My only complaint was that the main narrator read a little too slowly, I really wanted her to speed it up a bit.
Specifically,1) The resolution of the primary conflict (who gets to be the princess) felt too much like a plot-device (I can't say more without giving away the ending) that the author threw into the story to avoid a painful conflict between the characters.2)The culture of the mountain village and the kingdom as a whole was not developed enough - there was a lot of good potential here.
Things like 'quarry-singing', holding hands, and twirling the miri flowers (to name a few) were present throughout the story, lending the culture a consistancy.4) However, the absolute BEST aspect of this book is the over-all theme on the value of education.
Every now and then I like to read a good children's book, especially if it has a smart heroine.
One day, it's announced that the prince will choose his next princess from Miri's village, and all of the girls are sent to an academy to be educated.
What I especially liked is how the author emphasized education — Miri finds a way to use her new knowledge to help her family and the village.By the end of the book, it didn't really matter who became princess, because Miri had found her purpose in life.Highly recommended for anyone who wants a delightful dose of girl power.
Usually a formality, this time the girls aged thirteen to seventeen really must be trained - taught to read and write, how to walk and talk, about history and geography, diplomacy and economics.Most of the girls don't want to become princess, and their families need them back in the village and quarry, but even so, competition sparks amongst them.
I also loved the small role economics plays in the story, not to mention the power an education gives you - Miri uses her hard-won knowledge from the Academy to improve her village's ability to trade, thus improving the quality of life on the mountain as well as their bargaining power.
Had a very long drive ahead of me yesterday, so took this lovely book along to reread it.It was never very surprising to this old reader; I could see the plot turns coming a few chapters before they did, but the true pleasure is in the relationships of the families in the mountain village where Miri lives, and of course the relationships of the girls as they develop.This reading, I appreciated how Hale takes the time to give all the girls at least some personality, and some chance to change and grow, even if lightly sketched in.
I really liked it when the girls started pulling together and thinking past the fairytale, deciding that was in their best interest.
I loved the descriptions of the desolately beautiful quarry, the persistent miri flowers (which are actually real!), and the linder rocks.
;) The academy was a unique idea, and I loved how the girls used what they had learned to help their community without becoming the leaders of it.
I love how their friendship developed naturally into deep care for each other, and the linder hawk was a pretty sweet gift.
(view spoiler)[What was the academy for anyway?
(hide spoiler)] But once I thought about it, I loved it.
(view spoiler)[And Miri and Peder!!!
But the hawk was the second most precious thing.
This was such a wonderful fairytale read!A prince, selecting a girl to marry! The Selection? Read this instead! Experience a fantastic adventure to knowledge and True Love with small but Terrible Miri! FULL REVIEW TO COME!
I read this all in one day, guys.
Okay, so I read twelve pages of it this morning...
And Miri and Britta and Knut...
Bascially, I just want to kidnap all the characters.-The setting.
Basically, the setting was just plain awesome.
But then again, I'm not sure exactly what I was expecting...-Plot continuity.
Shannon Hale's pretty good at dropping early hints of plot twists without being too obvious.
And yeah, I missed most of them, so I ended up with a ton of "Aha!" moments.(view spoiler)[-Steffan.
BASCIALLY ALL MY SHIPS WERE RIGHT.
(hide spoiler)]The Bad-Surprises.
(view spoiler)[Except the part about the bandits.
I've been reading this to my 8.5 year old daughter at night before bed.
The world she lives in is believable and complex economically and socially, and will be understood on many levels depending upon the sophistication of the reader.It is a coming of age story - I believe that the main character is 15-ish.
Issues of friendship, love, attraction, ambition, prejudice, and family loyalty loom large, and are treated with sensitivity and insight into the mind of an adolescent girl.Put this book on your list of fast moving stories with strong, smart, resourceful and truly human female leads.Enjoy!
Miri just wants to make her father proud and be like all Mount Eskel's people mining its beautiful stone.
Or will this new path change her life forever?I LOVED this middle grade book.
Shannon Hale did a great job at bringing a clean respect to God in this book.
Plus, there was this really unique language the Mountain people had that could only be used through the stone.
which I thought was neat.This book focuses on making a difference even if you are small and finding out what you are good at.
I thought this book would be cute, fun, and kind of similar to The Selection. Unfortunately, it was really boring. No action, no adventure, and definitely not enough romance. Even for a children's book, this still felt really flat. It was well-written, certainly, but it just didn't hold my interest.
I really liked Miri (the main character) and her spunk and her ingenuity, especially regarding how she was motivated to use her educational opportunities and how she figured out how to communicate with her fellow students and villagers.I think this tale says a lot about feeling like an outsider vs.
feeling a sense of belonging, and also about what is important in life.I didn’t really like a particular reveal toward the end because it seemed just a bit like cheating to me, but by the end I guess the way the plot evolved made sense to me and the story from beginning to end felt very satisfying.I’d say that readers can enjoy this book from ages 9 or 10 and all the way up.
http://cronicasdesdelancre.blogspot.c...¡Menudo sorpresón! me ha ENCANTADO. ¡No os dejéis engañar por el horrible título! He disfrutado de cada página, de ese tono suave y como de cuento de hadas que tiene, del alegato a favor de la educación, de las chicas rudas y de las inteligentes… En fin, una historia que a pesar de ser previsible me ha mantenido con la sonrisa en los labios durante sus 300 páginas.¡Quiero más! :)
Imagínense algo como La selección, pero sin romance y bien escrito :)No me mató, pero me gustó, toca temas un poco raros para un middle grade (¡economía? WTF), pero también tiene un lindo mensaje de amistad y ser uno mismo.
this will always be one of my favorite books. I've grown up rereading it multiple times, and it's such a cozy, fluffy story. <3
4.5 starsThat was absolutely lovely.
Shannon Hale makes this book extremely exciting as the audience sees all the tough trials that each girl from Mount Eskel have to go through in order to become civilized princesses before the Prince arrives to the academy.
Also, Shannon Hale has done a great job at making the story somewhat intense, especially when Olana at first treats the girls in a cruel manner and locks them up in a closet and also when Miri has to compete with Katar, another brilliant girl to be academy princess and many adults would love to see so much tension build up between the characters which makes the story exciting to read through.
I think this may be my favorite Shannon Hale book.The writing style is very much like her other YA books (Goose Girl, Enna Burning, & River Secrets). Also it shares the "speaking" theme. What I love most about Princess Academy is the growth the characters experience. Miri began as a scrawny quarry girl who didn't know her place in the world. She developed into a brave, intellegent girl who knows her heart. The road of growth is deep in plot and emotion which makes of a very meaningful and touching read. Lovely. Shannon Hale is a master of fantasy.
I really liked this book! I was assuming it would be something ... well, maybe more "Disney" due to the title (not to knock Disney, love their animated movies), but instead it was a thoughtful and genuinely touching story of a brave kid dealing with societal obstacles and winning the day with kindness and resolve. Really enjoyed this.
This was one of the first (contemporary-written) fantasies I ever read, and I was swept away. Fantasy isn't my favorite genre, but I still found this story fascinating.
Review originally posted on A Reader of Fictions.On the surface, Princess Academy seems a silly tale, a story of a Prince choosing a bride, an obvious read-a-like for Kiera Cass' The Selection.
Of course, that is the crux of the story: the prince of Danland is to choose his bride from among the twenty girls of the proper age in Mount Eskel, a small territory town full of quarriers.
However, Princess Academy is so much more than that, and you would be a fool to pass it by because of that expectation.The covers given to Shannon Hale's books market to middle grade readers, which I think is a shame.
(warning: spoilers)Ok, so I hate it when people hype up a book so much that there's no way you can ever enjoy it.
That's what happened to this book.
Everyone told me I would love it so much, and so when I read it I was, I couldn't help but be...disappointed.
I enjoyed it.
I read it fast, it was a book that I wanted to find out what was going to happen next.
Even when the bandits threatened to take the girls away, I thought, oh, good, they're finally going to get away from this mountain, but no, they didn't.
This book is really seriously a great one!! I love how there is so much to the story and how you never want to put it down!!!
:P Things I liked...-I thought the author did a wonderful job of including most of the (20) girls in all the dialogue and I felt I got to know them all fairly well!
I think that added to the story!Things I didn't like...-Though I liked Marda's character, I think she could have had a little more dialogue and action in the story.
Though I guess she did (view spoiler)[break her leg (hide spoiler)]-I think Olana gave up a little too easy in some different things...
- I felt like Miri's character went up and down and up and down.
"Look no farther than your hand, make a choice and take a stand" Miri is such a heroin! The type of character I really enjoy to read and a great role model to my daughter! She speaks out her mind, is brave, smart, always finds her way, she is just perfect!There is this 'Bachelor' idea in between the plot, that I wasn't attractive to and I also wasn't a fan of the age of the girls to get married because even though Sahnnon Hale has this amazing writing style that can transport to a past generati
She speaks out her mind, is brave, smart, always finds her way, she is just perfect!There is this 'Bachelor' idea in between the plot, that I wasn't attractive to and I also wasn't a fan of the age of the girls to get married because even though Sahnnon Hale has this amazing writing style that can transport to a past generation the novel is very recent.That been said, the real message of the book is EDUCATION, the importance of get our girls the education they deserve and how can educated woman can change the environment of their communities, I think that is a great message and I really appreciate.The father and daughter relationship was heart warming, I really love that new profile of a father, it was a difficult but honest and loving relationship.This story was a joy!
Sadly I cannot keep reading this beautiful story because there is not an Spanish version!
I read with my daughter so the English version is not an option...
Let’s just say a lot.Between one of the sweet girls I babysit raving about it and the nearly 90 friends here on Goodreads that have shelved this book, I’ve known about this series for a while.
-Two cheek kisses; Touches, Dancing, Hand Holding, & Nearness (barely-above-not-detailed); Blushes; A bit of noticing; Some talks about boys & crushes; Mentions of noticing, nearness, touches, blushes, & the effects on Miri (barely-above-not-detailed); A few mentions of young girls being in love with someone for years; A few mentions of blushes; A couple mentions of jealousy; A mention of a hand kiss; Mentions of Miri’s mother who died shortly after she gave birth to Miri & a different mother dying in labor as well.
