https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24586590-the-nature-of-the-beast
Three Pines, Quebec is a town that should emanate peace and tranquility.
But seriously, this town must have the highest per-capita murder rate in all of Canada!
Yet I’d still move there in a heartbeat!Even in retirement, Armand Gamache can’t escape the intrigue of a murder investigation.
Maybe someone wanted to silence a boy with a vivid imagination?
The town and its people come to life within her books.
While I’m reading I can imagine myself sitting by the fire in the Bistro sipping my cider twirling my cinnamon stick!
Can’t you just see it!?As always, I am looking forward to reading the next installment.
Note from the author:"The Nature of the Beast is a book I’ve been waiting a long time to write.
Shortly after I originally marked "The Nature of the Beast" to-read, I came across the author's comments on the book somewhere, so I pasted them here because I thought they'd be interesting to come back to when I eventually read the book.
I had no idea so many other people would be interested in them too.I enjoyed the book.
I tend to enjoy the books in the series that are set in Three Pines the most, and that was the case here.
I do so love this series and I am really sorry that I am gettting close to the end of what is currently available.
I must admit I always like the books set in the village the best.
The mystery seems a little outrageous at times, just a little unbelievable, until you get to the end and discover that the events are factual.
Gerald Bull was a real man and really invented the items around which this story is based.Gamache seems to be getting back to his old self in the last two books and I am hopeful that he will come out of retirement very soon.
Penny does a great job adding new angles and perspectives to her series with this novel, which takes readers well outside the box.
I hold firm in my suggestion that new readers begin where the series began and progress accordingly.On this major Louise Penny binge, I have come to see a great deal of development in the series.
Penny has surely helped create a great contrast from much of the earlier books when it comes to the retired Chief Inspector’s character, which attentive (and binge) readers will notice as the series progresses.
Every late August, she publishes a new book in the Inspector Gamache series, which means that I get to spend Labour Day weekend with this great cast of characters in Three Pines or wherever she sets the story in Quebec.
Well -- not quite -- but I will suspend disbelief for Louise Penny and follow her to Three Pines or any part of Quebec to be in the presence of Armand Gamache and the other residents of Three Pines.
Although I preferred the previous one in the series a tiny bit more than The Nature of the Beast, this one nevertheless made for a great Labour Day weekend.
And, Gamache, representing Everyman, stands as witness to the knowledge that we all have the potential for evil, the potential for good, and, in The Nature of the Beast, the awareness of our own cowardice in the face of evil.It's mid-September in Three Pines, when the weather is so beautiful it's hard to imagine that anything evil can invade the small community.
He's the man who knows that monsters exist, even in the Eastern Townships, even in Three Pines.Louise Penny brings back characters from the past, introduces new ones, and leaves us with a new threat.
Definitely start from the beginning for more thorough enjoyment.I keep thinking that as much as I love Penny’s world of Three Pines there must come a time when the series has run its course.
When you’re in love with a fictional character you don’t care if his best days are behind him.Once again the author has spun a tale based on a real person and events out of Canada which made the main subject matter far more interesting and readable than if she had made it up.
In this 11th book in the 'Chief Inspector Armand Gamache' series, Gamache is retired and living in the Québec village of Three Pines.
The book provides enough background information to be read as a standalone.***** Chief Inspector Armand Gamache was once head of the homicide department at the Sûreté du Québec.
(This would probably be a good move, since some rude and disrespectful detectives - who were trained during the era of corruption - need ousting!!)Louise Penny's 'Chief Inspector Gamache' novels tend to be hit or miss (for me), with the best ones combining a great mystery with lively interactions among the populace of Three Pines - accented by fun conversations, good food, and amusing scenes with Henri (the German Shepherd).
Of course when Gamache's old colleagues arrive to investigate he is pulled into the search for the killer and the origins of the monster in the woods.It's good to be back with these old friends in the cosy village of Three Pines (which nonetheless seems to have a somewhat high crime rate - a bit like those other well known village hot spots - St Mary Mead and Midsommer): Clara the artist, still mourning the loss of her husband Peter, irascible old Ruth the poet and her duck, Gabri and Olivier who run the B&B and serves as village gossips as well as Gamache and his kind, understanding wife Reine-Marie.
When Laurent disappears and is later found dead retired Chief Inspector Armand Gamache questions whether this time Laurent's story is true and his death is not the accident it appears to be.Isabelle Lacoste, now Chief Inspector, and Jean Guy Beauvoir, Gamache's former second in command, are called in and begin their investigation.
As for Gamache himself he questions whether in dismissing Laurent's story he may have played a part in the tragedy that followed.When a "supergun" is found in the woods outside the village the story takes a turn from a simple murder investigation to espionage and arms race.
I used to like the books in this series a lot more. This one begins promisingly with the question of whether a work of art should in any way be judged by the actions of its creator. But then it meanders off into a long story about a megagun which, frankly, lost my interest almost immediately.Penny's descriptions of her characters' emotional tizzies have always struck me as a bit melodramatic, and that flaw persists. There are some excellent tensions among the villains, but over all the book just didn't engage me.
Although the "super gun" and its creator were real, the idea that an actually-built example of it being found in the wilds of Quebec would be an earth-shaking event and that it would endanger the lives of "hundreds of thousands" is simply laughable.
Also ridiculous is the idea that without the plans it would be impossible for anyone to build another such gun.
And the idea that Gamache would countenance the extra-legal freeing of a psychotic serial murderer on the chance that he would lead them to the plans can only make one wonder what Gabri's been putting in his coffee.
Unbelievable!! I do not want to put any descriptors about the storyline in this review. It will spoil the end (and I mean the end-end, the author's note). I thought this storyline was a bit far-fetched. What and why was Louise Penny writing about this? That's just a crazy idea. Again, the author's note answered my questions, made me give this 5 stars, and caused me to shake my head and declare: unbelievable!
This is the only words tumbling into my keyboard right now to explain the essence of the plot in the book.Back in Three Pines again, with all the beloved characters as kind and quirky as ever, a young boy disappears, throwing a grotesque door open on the peaceful existence of the inhabitants.
But finally I am up to date and loved the experience.I don't know any writers who could equal the goodness and evil in the same way as Louise Penny did in this series.
I'm rating it five stars for the brilliance of the plot, the historical elements used in the book, as well as the Goodness of Three Pines.

For me, it certainly did.
But this time the real core is atrocity and super weapon descriptions par excellence in verbose exactitude.
Well, I certainly would not be sipping coffee or wine and leaving all the doors unlocked.
3 Pines has now gotten somewhat crossed with the town "Under the Dome" or Stephen King has somehow possessed Louise Penny.
Can you tell how mad I am at this supposed "recoup" for 3 Pines?
How could you make that town into such a level of cartoon that has resulted?Why oh why oh why does not ANYONE tell Louise Penny the truth?
This coming from Armand Gamache in the opening chapters is quite a shocking statement; and rather than give out too many details of what prompted this, I'll just say that this part of the book was something I've given some thought to in the past.
Come to find out, it's a far-fetched-based-on-fact story, which makes me understand why she was able to pull it off!Of the books in this series that I have read, all but the first was on audio, my preference mainly because they were read by the incomparable Ralph Cosham.
This is the first of the audio books read by Robert Bathurst, and frankly, I had difficulty finding Armand's voice among all the others.
So when he comes running into the cafe telling of finding a huge, huge gun/machine in the forest, people do not take him seriously and are quite annoyed with him and even with his parents, for not controlling him better.But when Laurent turns up dead soon thereafter and that’s not a real bicycle accident, but instead murder, then it starts to be taken seriously and the investigation begins and the village townsfolk start to worry about what exactly is in the forest.
And I got a chance to revisit with Armand and friends in Three Pines, which is always lovely.
Laurent Lepage, a 9-year-old so suffused with imaginary exploits that no one takes him seriously, disappears from Three Pines, a beautiful but tiny village in Canada’s Eastern Townships.
Gamache begins there.I welcomed being reunited with Gamache, his clever wife Reine-Marie, (view spoiler)[the bereaved (hide spoiler)] Clara Morrow; Clara’s best friend, the psychiatrist-turned-bookstore owner Myrna Landers; the odd couple of Gabri Dubeau and Olivier Brulé, the irascible poet Ruth Zardo, and Gamache’s erstwhile colleagues, Isabelle Lacoste and Jean-Guy Beauvoir.
Don’t pretend you don’t want a pair!Lastly, over 10 novels in the Audible format, Ralph Cosham was unmistakably “the voice of Three Pines,” as Louise Penny says in her introduction to the 11th novel, The Nature of the Beast.
It pains me to give a book in this series a 2 star...but it was not my cup of tea. My least favorite of the bunch.
Notwithstanding the fact that I still love Louise Penny’s beautiful writing style and the characters she’s developed, this plot around which the story is woven seems a bit farfetched for the village of Three Pines and the threads don’t quite hang together.
Not Louise Penny’s best, but still worth the read.
Not one of her best - I enjoyed some of her other books a whole lot better -- How the Light Gets In, The Beautiful Mystery, Bury Your Dead and The Brutal Telling and others.
I have read all the Louise Penny books set in the charming village of 3 Pines.
Having enjoyed and even loved most of them, I was very excited to hear this would be published in late August and preordered it.
I can't say I enjoyed this book as much as some of the previous ones.
I thought the plot was overly complicated and too many new characters were introduced.
Some parts became boring to me in this convoluted story, and there was very little new added to our understanding of the personalities of the main characters.
As always, Gamache is in charge (even after he retired) and the complex story moves with increasing pace and urgency. Gamache's interview of a serial killer is a tense classic. Three Pines is a very scary place full of fascinating characters. The premise is bizarre, except that it is apparently based at least in part on a true incident.
Have to wait all the way until August....this will be the first one I "read" - no audio - no Ralph Cosham to narrate. :-(
Grab a seat by the fire and have Gabri bring you a warm croissant and apple cider as murder once again comes to Three Pines. The stakes are higher than ever as old secrets threaten to tear about our favorite fictional town and maybe much more. Louise Penny once again tugs on our heartstrings in another stellar entry in this series.
I listened to the audiobook for the eleventh in Louis Penny's Chief Inspector Gamache series, as I usually do, and really missed narrator Ralph Cosham.
I was surprised the author chose a British actor to replace Cosham after he passed away.
One of the joys of listening to this series for me was Cosham's wonderful French Canadian accent.
As Chief Inspector Gamache is French Canadian it only makes sense to keep the narrator with the same accent.
I did enjoy seeing some of the town's long-buried secrets come out.Not a favorite, but still a big fan of the series.4 out of 4 stars.
You feel the support of Reine-Marie, Armand’s wife, for her husband, yet her concern as well, the closeness and teasing of the circle of friends and their concern for one another.
Or should it stand on its own?” …”Would I want a painting by Jeffrey Dahmer, or to serve a meal from the Stalin family cookbook?...” There is a play within the story, and the point at which Penny anthropomorphizes it, is interesting indeed.Penny takes the readers from light, to shadow, and into complete blackness; both real and conceptually.
The Nature of the Beast is book eleven of the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series by Louise Penny.
Laurent Lepage disappearance caused Armand Gamache to start searching for the young boy and found more then he expected.
The readers of The Nature of the Beast will continue to follow Armand Gamache to see what happens to Laurent Lepage.
I love reading books in this series, and The Nature of the Beast did not disappoint.
The Nature of the Beast was well written and researched by Louise Penny.
I like the way, Louise Penny describes her settings and ensure that I became engaged more comfortable with the plot of The Nature of the Beast.
“Louise Penny set the bar high with her last two books, but she had no trouble clearing it with this one. All our old friends are back in Three Pines where a young boy with a compulsion to tell tall tales tells one true story with disastrous results. But which story is the truth and why is it so threatening? Exquisitely suspenseful, emotionally wrenching and thoroughly satisfying.”Beth Mills, New Rochelle Public Library, New Rochelle, NY
At one point in the novel the grocer picks up an apple that, on the outside, looks perfect. When his expert hands break it in two, however, it is rotten to the core. I can't think of a better image to convey what this story is about: a person--a village--may look perfect on the outside but crack it open and you may find it rotten to the core. Secrets can do that!Another great novel by Louise Penny.
