https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12991188-train-dreams

Following with Robert Grainier, a common man living among extraordinary times, Johnson plays with the forces that shape a nations destiny while paying homage to the myths and legends of the wild world that continue to lurk in the dark recesses left untouched by the future.The prose simply glistens in this novella.
Joins pantheon of stellar (first) novellas from literary cosmonauts such as "The Neon Bible" & "A Pale View of Hills". This is better than the drug chronicle and much-imitated "Jesus's Son"--without that confusion, the story is more than captivating and, this being Johnson, devastating: American dreams, y'all!It's all here in the perfect, brutal 'lil package.
This little book has been sitting on my to-read shelf for so long that I can't remember whose recommendation prompted me to buy it.
I am very glad that I finally found the small amount of time needed to read it, as it is a beautiful and atmospheric miniature.The book's subject is Grainier, and it follows his isolated life in a remote and wild valley in the north of Idaho through a series of episodes that span his long lifetime.
It is partly an elegy for the old west and partly a reflection on how even wild landscapes evolve and succumb to modernisation.
Robert Grainer is not a special man, with no talents or traits that make him stand out in any way.Aside from the spot-on depiction of the hard life of an early 1900's man working in and living off the forest, making an enemy out of the trees, the book also contains a mysterious aspect of dreams, visions, strange behavior and mystical creatures.
This book has been a subtle, well-balanced experience of profound thought and the lightness of everyday life.Don't let the title of Train Dreams fool you, for it's the real thing.
The landmarks of his tough existence include the attempted execution of a storeroom thief, who seems to put a curse on him; a man shot by his own dog and the childhood discovery of a fatally injured railway hobo.As a book which looks at the history of one person’s lifelong struggle to come to turns with the loss of his loved ones, and an ever changing America this book works, however, the story isn't filled with greater purpose and deeper meaning, and is ultimately superficial and way too short.
I was on a train finishing a book called A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing.
Train Dreams seemed perfect at a little over a hundred pages, and so it proved to be from a timing point of view because I finished it just as the late night train rolled into the sleepy station.
Not when you've read two powerful books one after the other.The title of the first book, A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing echoed a very disturbing episode in Train Dreams and my subconscious latched on to that parallel and wouldn’t let go.
A solid story, sad and satisfying, one which might, initially, provoke feelings of déjà vu in those who’ve read A Prayer for the Dying.
An American mountain man, stoic and self-sufficient, enjoys an all too brief period of love and intimacy before tragedy and loss impose, and he’s left to fend for and only for himself.
Johnson captures an era, a majestic landscape, and the heroic decency of a past which one hopes was real and not merely individualism romanticized.A good one—quick, thoughtful, well worth the brief time and effort required.
Owing to the fact that I have read the semi-autobiographical short story collection Jesus' Son a few times (and you should absolutely do that), I had a wrong-headed assumption about the subject matter of this novella.
Just as I found in Jesus' Son, Denis Johnson - or "Penis Johnson" as one of my roommates calls him due to being irked by the name-spelling - has a way of making his sentences wash over you like mist, an elegantly effortless drizzle of big feelings in very few words.
Oh, and I also recommend that Penis Johnson writes a book about train-hoppin' squatter kids, because I still want to read about that through his lovely, incisive voice.
As the rain hits the panels of my hilltop apartment, I finally felt the need to read this short novella of the natural world and of the unpredictable subconscious.Johnson’s story of a simple, solitary man born into mystery living the life of a woodsman who encounters love and family for the first time in his life and then the catastrophe that takes it all away is a good read; not profound, but still with purpose and substance.Robert Grainer is an everyday choke setter along the Spokane International Railroad, mostly working in the panhandle of Idaho.
I have a car to get from A to B, not for any other reason and being in charge of a roaring great hulk of machinery has never really appealed to my aesthetic sense.
That side of the novel doesn’t appeal, but the prose is wonderfully lyrical and the landscape is a character in its own right.There is a good deal of American myth in this; the odd ghost, a feral child, half-dog half wolf pets, frontier tales and Grainier himself almost becomes mythical as a woodsman himself towards his end.
I like novellas, they feel a lesser undertaking than settling into a novel in its full form.
For me it also opens up options I might spurn if I though I'd have to take on three hundred or more pages.
I first picked up this thin book at at a local bookstore - I was attracted by a single sentence as I briefly flicked through it.
I didn't read the blurb or otherwise pre-acquainting myself with the tale to be told.
A mystery read, and a satisfying one.
A strange and unsettling group of anecdotes telling of the life of a lonely man.
Well, more a loner than a lonely man.
For a time, as an adult he would make a living from trains, clearing the trees so more tracks could be laid, a necessity as more and more people moved West.
Yet for the most part the West was a raw and hard place for a man to make a life and raise a family.Told in a spare and stark manner but with some wonderful descriptions, this is the story of Robert Grandier, an ordinary man.
A time when the woodlands were disappearing at a rapid rate and life was in everyway, man against nature.I liked his character, and liked this short yet anything but simple story.
Early in this novella, but not in his chronological life, Robert Grainier feels obliged to help fellow workers grab a Chinese laborer, working in the Pacific Northwest, and throw him off a span of bridge into a gorge below.
They are ultimately unsuccessful, but Death is not denied otherwise in the life of Grainier.
In fact, everyone he meets seems to have a sorry end.The story of this man (this Country?) is told in sepia-toned, non-linear vignettes.
He is a good man who somehow cannot love again.If you don't want to go down that road, you can simply enjoy the Twain-like stories that our protagonist confronts.
This short novella tells a long tale in a sparse and emotionless way.
Some segments were interesting, some were not.Robert Granier is a loner throughout his life.
It makes for an unemotional story and gives it an aloof feel.
I like trains, so this is comforting, in its way.
I'm not sure whether the train signifies the passage of Life or the growth of the West in America.
Either way it is an interesting detail to the story.
Robert Granier identifies with them throughout the years and howls as well.
Both wolves and Robert go through life doing what needs to be done, then moving on.
A beautiful encapsulation of the life of an average man - haunting and expansive - a compassionate version of Babbitt.
The years passed by and he tried to pick up his life again working other towns but eventually he finds himself back again home.There has become word of a wolf-girl, a kind of half wolf and human creature in the wilderness.
It flushed out something heavy that tended to collect in his heart, and after an evening’s program with his choir of British Columbian wolves he felt warm and buoyant.""The wolves and coyotes howled without letup all night, sounding in the hundreds, more than Grainier had ever heard, and maybe other creatures too, owls, eagles—what, exactly, he couldn’t guess—surely every single animal with a voice along the peaks and ridges looking down on the Moyea River, as if nothing could ease any of God’s beasts.
Especially after Updike's whole Rabbit Armstrong yippie-dippie-dippie-doo became an admittedly pretty but still dull as dishwater target for any acclaim the Institution could throw at it?So this is Johnson's attempt at tapping into American mythology, and it's popular and acclaimed and supposed to be wonderfully ghostly, but I am just not feeling the damn thing.
look, McCarthy's Border Trilogy cuts close to romanticizing the last days of the Old West, but at least Blood Meridian proves he's smart enough to realize that there were, y'know, people there before who were kinda, like, brutally slaughtered and forced off their own land so we could satisfy our imperialist desires.
He heard only his footsteps and the wolf-girl’s panting complaint.” ― Denis Johnson, Train Dreams So, I've just read my second great American novella set in Northern Idaho.
'Train Dreams' isn't A River Runs Through It and Other Stories, but it travels similar territory.
It reads like the Spring sun has just risen on Cormac McCarthy's prose.
The story seems to float like a gossamer-thin cloud across the sky of the late 19th and early 20th century.
It captures horizon-to-horizon the struggles and the dreams that disappeared as horses were replaced with cars and planes, and trains traveled back and forth.
I could not sync up with this story, expected something much bleaker. There didn't seem to be room for the inclusion of the mysterious secrets of Moya Valley and the main character's bent toward howling with the wolves at night. There was certainly nothing wrong with the writing, the tale simply did not click with me.
The dead spirit of his daughter appears in abstract or animal form to haunt him, and the wolves enter his soul.“…when Grainier heard the wolves at dusk, he laid his head back and howled for all he was worth…It flushed out something heavy that tended to collect in his heart…”Love, loss, death, and lust are wound into this short but powerful story, a story of a time that is receding from the collective American memories.
This short and sweet novella tells the story of one mans life in the Pacific North West; he never gets close enough to see the ocean however. I was waiting for it all to be pulled together in the end and this didn’t quite happen, but I gave it three stars anyway because of the way the narrator told the story. The narrator makes this worth reading because the events are beautifully described in the language of the time.
This small book has a great palette of feelings to offer you. En entire life opens and expands itself while reading the compact chapters. Mesmerising.
For a good half of this reading I was thinking small, small, small.
I think Grainer's wolf howling was the fulcrum and suddenly I was right there amid the charred wilderness, four walls and no roof.
Some of what goes on stills reads small, but the language is sharp, the imagery briefly kaleidoscopic.
But if it were not for that awful and beautiful stage roar (what a closer), 'the originating ideal of all such sounds ever made' I would not be thinking BIG right now, and hopefully in the days to come.
3.5 stars but I just know that a re-read will do this service.
Há certos livros que, logo à primeira linha, nos aprisionam dentro deles.Aí nos mostram outro mundo, outra época, outra gente, outras vidas tão distantes da nossa e, simultaneamente, tão perto pelas suas tristezas, pelos seus desejos e, acima de tudo, pelo manter dos sonhos, que alimentam a capacidade de sobrevivência do ser humano.No fim, libertam-nos deixando-nos o coração em cacos.Roubo, para aqui, a opinião do Luis Miguel que, tal como eu, teve a sorte de "tropeçar" em Denis Johnson: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
It's a sad story, since Granier lives, for the most part, a lonely (and long) life against the stunning backdrop of the Idaho Panhandle.
Granier does experience love, but it's a love that is tragically cut short due to a raging fire that transforms the landscape -- and Granier's life.
But Granier remains loyal to both this experience, and its setting.
If you like Cormac McCarthy, with his stark and beautiful landscapes, but feel that the Human Factor is missing in that great writer's grim universe, Johnson's your man.
And I should mention that I often *like* poetic language as description -- much of Laurie Halse Anderson's book "Wintergirls" is written in free-verse style, with lots of floating imagery, and I love that.
But whereas Anderson's images and poetry serve to heighten the emotion, Johnson's -- for me -- serve to dampen it.I gave the book two stars instead of one because I did enjoy the writing style -- it kept me reading, anyway -- but I kept reading it and reading it and waiting for the story to get to the point, and it never seemed to do so.
Not to get all cliche here, but Train Dreams is the kind of book that will linger much like a dream, with certain scenes wafting in the back of your mind long after you've set it down.Johnson has a dark side, both in the traditionally morbid sense, as well as the darkly comic, but this world isn't without wonder, either, which is one of the things that I found particularly appealing about Train Dreams - the balance of the dark and the light, the starkly real and the mysteriously surreal.
A perfect 'Once upon a time' story for adults. An elaborate response would follow someday soon.
Sabía que era corto y presentía que me iba a gustar... así que me lo fui saboreando de a poquito...Se acabó antes de lo que quise, y lo disfruté y amé mucho más de lo que lo imaginé!
