https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188442.A_House_and_Its_Head
It invites comparison with Meredith with respect to the sheer difficulty of following what's happening.
People say things (practically the whole book is dialogue) but half the time, I just don't follow the conversation.
I found it very hard to get my bearings.Formally, it's quite clever (Francine Prose explains this in her afterword).I feel if only I could latch on to the right rhythm, or blocking, or accent, or something, it would all fall into place and it would be my favorite book ever.
I guess, as with Meredith, I have to say that I am barely adequate, if that, to this book.
Through her principal and powerful focus on the use of dialogue in her fiction to convey in a dramatic way her characters' individual personalities, tensions, complexities, resentments, repressions and sometimes savage irony - she herself is a savage, i.e., wonderful Swiftian ironist/satirist, scalpel-sharp - she is reminiscent of other modernists.In particular you are reminded of William Gaddis (e.g., The Recognitions,Carpenter's Gothic, and JR), Henry Green (e.g., Loving, Living, Party Going, Nothing, Doting, Blindness), the dialogue from the early plays of Harold Pinter (The Birthday Party, The Room, The Dumb Waiter, A Slight Ache, The Hothouse, A Night Out, The Black and White) and sometimes Samuel Beckett.As with her other fiction, she has a set of themes she returns to time and again - you could call them obsessions, in a way: from the Victorian repressive household settings, to the patriarchal, remote, powerfully domineering father/husband of the household, to the anaesthetised (dream-like state) wives, and the often fearful, sometimes subtly insubordinate - or otherwise self-serving, monstrously deceptive - children.In the Edgeworth family in A House and its Head, published in 1935, you therefore have the archetypally representative CB family.
Uptight father of a motherless family in staunchly proper Edwardian society, Banks is the only one in the story with a character arc.
At least we know this from the Poppins version, which is many things to many people, but cannot, of course, be questioned.
Whereas in Mary Poppins the Father will have a eureka moment and reconsider everything, there will be no such revision in Compton-Burnett's version.
For a little salt in the wound, Compton-Burnett more than a few times has her guess-who characters saying, "the answer goes without saying".
This is Downton Abbey for the vicious. The story passes so much in dialogue that it can be hard to be sure of where the characters are or even who speaks, but on balance the information is there to reward the patient reader. Once it's easy to keep track of who is who, it's a funny, biting novel.
And the novel finishes on a positive note - The family remains firmly ensconced in their culture but there remains genuine affection between them and they appear reasonably happy.In A House and Its Head, ICB drops any pretense of affection or prospects of happiness to ruthlessly skewer the vicious hypocrisy and twisted morality of Victorian families.The story revolves around the Edgeworth family: Initially, Duncan, the patriarch; Ellen, his first wife; Nance and Sibyll, their daughters; and Grant, Duncan's nephew, son of his dead brother.
Francine Prose's afterword is excellent, may be the best of the NYRB Classics series that I have read, and there is a lot more to say about this book, but I don't think Goodreads is really the place.
Still, if you are interested in literature and experiments with it--I'm thinking of the later Henry James's book with so much dialogue--this is a book for you.
If you're squeamish about family life, don't read it; it makes Jonathan Franzen look like a writer for Sesame Street.
Or maybe she lacks the simply ability to write clearly?
But, I DID like this book and there were so many twists in the plot that I did NOT anticipate.
You think you are reading something safe and Jane Austen-y, but this is like Jane Austen holding a knife to your back.
I couldn't quite get a handle on the characters like you can in most books of this type.
I mean, you'd decide to hate someone, like the head of the house, and then he'd show his humanity in some way.
The thing is this plot was GOOD.
A novel constructed almost entirely from brittle, spiteful dialog between awful upper-middle class Victorian English family members - sort of funny and sort of too close to the bone for comfort in some ways.
Finally, I have to say I liked having an Afterword, since I (and I wonder if this isn't true of most people) always read the Foreword of a book that has one at the end anyway, since it is likely to give away key plot elements.
A 1935 British Victorian family drama/black comedy with some melodramatic elements.
The comedy here, already dark and serious, uses that melodrama as a way to become even darker and more serious.
In the end, the book becomes not just a critique but a condemnation of the entirety of Victorian family life, and in particular the dominant, horrifying man of the house.I picked this up since it was part of the New York Review of Books Classics series.
Everything I've seen in that series is at least semi-obscure and also very good.
Lots of very mannered, self-consciously clever dialogue - almost like reading a Wildean play script. Superb descriptions of people's tone of voice, mannerisms, emotions, motivation, inner fears, hidden agendas etc. Not something one can skim. Although lots of dialogue, it is not always immediately obvious who is saying what. Most characters are cold and detached, with not much plot happening and nothing resolved at the end.The repercussions of death and betrayal in a family of almost adult offspring. A surprisingly scandalous tale, though the characters are typically blasé about events.
Well, yes, lots of lines were clever and funny but not enough to really make this enjoyable. And the supposedly reckless sins that everyone commits really...aren't that bad. Also, no character seems capable of experiencing fluctuations in emotion, which makes it difficult (though not impossible) to feel anything but an artificial and remote interest in the story. I do like the thematic material, and admire the clip of the conversations (the novel is exclusively structured in dialogue, reading like a theatrical play), but honestly, I would rather just read Jane Austen instead.
Three stars because there's so much going on here, on the surface and underneath it, but nonetheless I strongly disliked the book. I've read two of her novels because I already owned them, but I can't imagine reading any more. Torture, pretty much.
Was confused at first but finished it more than a bit in love with ICB's mind.
Duncan is the tyrannical head of the household, consisting of his wife Ellen, daughters Nance, 24, and Sybil, 18, and his orphaned nephew Grant, 26, his heir due to an entail.
Before her husband can confront her, Alison runs of with Almeric Bode, a young friend of the family close to herself in age.With encouragement from Duncan Grant proposes to Nance and is rejected, but immediately afterward is accepted by Sybil, who does not know she is his second choice.
Grant leaves Sybil, who moves in with her invalid aunt while Grant returns to Duncan's house.Cassandra gives birth to a son, William.
This book is a difficult read.
However, if a reader pays close enough attention, the dialogue is all that one needs to get a complex look into the inner workings of a strictly led household fighting over matters of inheritance.Big wealthy family household dramas are not the sort of literature that I usually find myself reading because I usually find it annoying, but I really enjoyed this book.
The characters were complex.
The scandals made sense based on the characters and provided a small mystery to unravel by remembering small clues in the book.
It is not a complex mystery, but this is not a mystery book.
It’s about 98% straight dialog, much like reading a play but without any stage directions.
Unlike a stage play, however, the dialog is vague and uncertain with a sort of herky-jerky quality.
The core characters are the Edgeworth family – father Duncan, wife Ellen, daughters Nance and Sybil, and nephew Grant – surrounded by a Greek chorus of neighbors who appear at the Edgeworth home whenever there is an event.
People are what they are, and I watched them interact in fascinated horror.It sounds odd to say that one “really liked” this book, but it is intriguing and enlightening.
- jeśli kochacie Gosford Park (a przede wszystkim Starą z Gosford Park)- jeśli uwielbiacie Bernharda i jego rozwalanie złudzeń- jeśli kochacie komunikację i lawiny spiętrzonych znaczeń w każdym zdaniu, które zabijają tych mniej uważnych (a w tym XIX wiktoriański wiek wszakże się specjalizował)- i czasem uważacie, że przymiotniki są przereklamowane (niesamowite wstrzymujące dech w piersiach magiczne porywające wzruszające widoki to nie tutaj)- a na co dzień brakuje Wam inteligentnej ironii- i wreszcie nie boicie się książki, która w 95% składa się dialogów,to serdecznie, serdecznie polecam.A Dulcię biłabym wyłamaną nogą od krzesła!
Więc ostrożnie z lekturą w środkach komunikacji miejskiej.
Nieporozumienia czyhają na każdym przystanku.
Written late in Ivy Compton-Burnett's life, this book repeats themes from others of hers that I've read (dominant pater familias, stepmother(s), caustic wit) but this goes further into melodrama with the rather horrible (though bloodless) murder of a character who turns out to be superfluous. Rather too many characters - there were some I didn't bother to even try to keep track of. And of course, ICB's usual dialogue-driven style and devastating emotional truths. But when you read about her own birth family you can't really accuse her of exaggeration in her novels.
I had a lot of trouble working out the tone of this book. At the end of the day I think it's more satirical than I thought when I started reading it. In any case, it's pretty funny. Not sure if I'll be picking up anymore of her books; word on the grapevine is they're mostly the same.
When considering the reviews and comments I read before actually reading the book, I feel like the odd one out, as I can interprete the story in many ways, but "hilarious"? No, thats definitely not an accurate word to use, according to me. What is covered here : the life of a well-off family in victorian times, and the way their "secrets" and events (death, adultery, even murder) are dealt with within both their intimate family circle and their extended local "friends" circle. What makes the sto
What makes the story "different" is the way it is written, almost entirely in dialogue.
This also makes it quite difficult for the reader to follow, sometimes (you cannot easily tell who´s talking, as people move in and out of conversations).
Personally, I thought the story was alright without fascinating me particularly, the social context too far away from what I find interesting (and nothing some carcasm in dialogue can get rid of), the writing original but difficult which surely made me love reading this book less than I had intended.
Published in 1935, “A House and its Head” was British author Ivy Compton-Burnett’s fifth of nineteen novels.
The story has an almost play-like quality, with many conversational snippets taking place around the breakfast table or adjoining parlor.
Writer Francine Prose quips that Compton-Burnett’s domestic squabbles and machinations suggest a domestic order akin to “Jane Austin on bad drugs.” That’s an apt analogy.
The conversations are frequently pithy, if not bordering on passive-aggressive.
I cannot say that I really enjoyed this novel, although I admit to being intrigued by Compton-Burnett’s unusual writing style.
I give the novel 3.5 stars.
3 stars for enjoyment, it's so grim.
There's murder, incest and all sorts under the veneer of upper middle class family life.
5 stars for originality.
This book is completely different to any book I've read.
Full of dialogue that no normal people would speak, but which conveys several different thoughts simultaneously.
Is this what sustained the British Empire ?
It's frightening morality and starts to explain why so many things in British public life were covered up (Child abuse, orphans to Oz, Saville etc).I'd like to think we've moved on in the 80 years since this book was written....
Lots of names in this one. The prose is mostly dialogue - so I got a bit mixed on who was who and how they relate to one another. A well-written soap opera about gender politics in the late 19th century. The afterword speaks of ferocious across the breakfast table - but I found it a bit haughty and highbrow rather than animalistic.
This is just as sharp and witty as everyone says, but it's also exhausting to read--more like untangling a very long script than reading a novel, since 95% of it is dialogue, and dialogue that is full of sarcasm and doublespeak and the thin veneer of convention. I did actually laugh out loud numerous times, if that is a selling point.
I adored this twisted, genius novel.
Powieści Ivy Compton-Burnett skupiają się przede wszystkim na życiu domowym i związanym z nim problemami.
Powieść „Dom i jego głowa” nie jest pod tym względem wyjątkiem.Bohaterowie powieści muszą radzić sobie z przemocą psychiczną, zagrożeniem z zewnątrz, czy wrogim nastawieniem innych osób.
Duncan, ojciec rodziny, jest przedstawiono jako nieustępliwy tyran.
Mrok jednak nie skrada się powoli, ale zaskakuje nas nagle.
Ivy Compton-Burnett zmusza nas do zastanowienia się nad tym jaką granicę ludzkiego zachowania jesteśmy w stanie tolerować.
Czym jest prawda z jej surową moralnością i czy jesteśmy w stanie bez niej żyć w spokoju.Recenzja też w biBUŁe.
I struggled more with this than with previous Compton-Burnetts although this is supposed to be one of her best.
It needs to be read at long sittings - it's very hard to dip in and out of because you lose track of who's speaking.I wouldn't advise anyone thinking of starting a family or about to attend a family reunion to read this book!
The seemingly inane chit-chat of family life is revealed as vicious, self-serving, self-aggrandising and controlling.
Events take place largely in the house, and I have a strong mental image of a/the house in all her books.
There's no one like Ivy Compton-Burnett.
This novel was so English that it was at times incomprehensible.
(For example, she will blithely use "it" three or four times in a sentence, each "it" with a different antecedent.) But Anglophile that I am, I soldiered on, and was rewarded by a truly shocking plot.
These characters, Edwardian and mostly gentlefolk, have no compunctions about adultery and murder, and everyone agrees to cover it all up because we don't want any trouble, now do we?
I wouldn't recommend it, however, except to those who want to revel in stifling, fog-bound, often tedious Englishness.(By the way, despite what Goodreads says, I did not have the edition with Francine Prose's introduction, unfortunately.
I was stunned and delighted for the first 80 pages or so.
Compton-Burnett's prose is concise, wickedly pointed, and aggressively sardonic.
The book consists almost entirely of active dialogue, allowing the reader to draw conclusions without guidance from an omniscient presence through the characters' interactions.
After a while, this characteristic -- however attractive it may have been initially -- became tiresome for me.
The unremitting dialogues started to sag and lose their sharpness; both contour and content, with time and pages, became absolutely void of their original magic.
A House and Its Head is a bold experiment that somehow resembles a souffle with a wrinkled, fallen center.
must pay very close attention and i often did not.
regardless, compton-burnett's vision, style and execution are so unique and thorough and profound and disturbing, one can feel grateful for the challenge.
a story told almost entirely in dialogue about a family and what happens to the family in normal and not-so-normal family ways.
kind of like reading a play, maybe a screenplay to an episode of "curb your enthusiasm" because everything that is spoken is completely either socially unacceptable but what is really being thought or scarily and funnily true, or appalling or bonkers because you wish you had the courage to say so yourself.
