https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130080.Red_Cavalry
These laconic, brutal sketches packed with lush, eccentric imagery tell the story of the campaign of the Cossacks of the Red Calvary against the Poles in the days following the revolution.Babel--a Jewish intellectual from the cosmopolitan port city of Odessa--was assigned to a regiment of Cossacks, and he used his sharp eye and outsider's perspective to reveal to his readers the character of these barbarians of the plains.
He shows us Cossacks who are violent, merciless, sentimental, cynical, and yet passionately attached to their naive conceptions of revolution.
(Perhaps Babel himself had less than a realistic concept of "revolution.")
His gullet has been torn out, his face has been cleft in two, dark blue blood clings in his beard like pieces of lead.In civil wars there are neither right nor wrong, there are hatred, evil, enmity, cruelty and rivers of blood.And truly, I confess, I threw that woman off, down beside the rails, but she, being very coarse, just sat and waved her skirts, and then went her own little low-down way.
I picked a doozy to finish the year with, from an author I had never heard of writing about an obscure conflict that had occurred without the knowledge or permission of any other chronicler of war, apparently.What a hard book to rate!
The work is a book of fiction, on the face of it, written by Babel who actually did accompany Cossack cavalry into Poland when Russia invaded that hapless country shortly after WWI.
A book of fiction in which every word has the ring of truth, and no effort is made to conceal the identities of the persons about whom Babel is writing.
Babel certamente non avrà condiviso la ferocia dei cosacchi, ma l’ammirazione per questi guerrieri che portavano avanti l’ideale della rivoluzione fino a cadere a pezzi era più grande.
Tale anche da accettare l’assassinio di un vecchio ebreo polacco, proprio lui, che da bambino era scampato a un pogrom.La sincerità è encomiabile per il giornalista e liberatoria per l’uomo, purtroppo a lungo termine non ha ricompensato Babel, che è stato eliminato da Stalin.Babel scrive straordinariamente bene, in una prosa immaginifica ed espressionista e mi fa anche pensare un po’ a Chagall, solo che al posto dell’asino e della capra ci sono i cavalli dei cosacchi.
I found it to be of the same outstanding quality as Erich Maria Remarque's "All quiet on the Western Front." The big question is having read one or two books in the genre why would you want to continue.
My interested in Babel's book came from the fact that it involved the atrocities committed by the Communist Cossacks in the Polish-Russian War of 1918-1920 that my wife's grandfather participated in on the Polish side.Even after having recently read Jonathon Littell's horrific Kindly Ones three years ago, Babel was still able to shock and disgust me.
The Poles were slaughtered by the Russian Cossacks.
The Jews got it first from the Poles and then from the Russian Cossacks.
Crudo. Algunos relatos no son tan memorables o parecen muy similares entre sí, pero logran su objetivo: contar e impactar. Varias imágenes se me quedaron pegadas a la mente por la forma en que están descriptas. Ejemplo:  Entro y me hiere el brillo de dos plateadas calaveras en la tapa de un féretro roto.  Es una de las primeras citas impresionantes que encontré, así que lo que resta es un horror. No podía esperarse menos de historias basadas en la guerra y escritas por un hombre que la conoció de cerca.
A fine edition of a 20th-century Russian classic about a forgotten war.Red Cavalry is a brilliant account of part of the Polish-Soviet War. This grew out of the Russian Revolution and Civil War, as Bolshevik leaders sought to expand their territory, while aiming to provoke revolution in Germany by driving through Poland.A very young Isaac Babel rode with the titular cavalry forces, jotting down his impressions while doing administrative work and trying to get along with Cossacks.
This edition is unusually rich, in that only one half is the originally published Red Cavalry stories.
During the Polish-Soviet War of 1920-1921, Isaac Babel was attached to the Red Army Cavalry that fought in Southern Poland.
Most of this area had been part of the Russian Empire for centuries and was well known to him.
Most of it was small towns (schtetls) that were little more than a handful of huts and dirt roads.Babel wrote about the good and the bad of the Soviet Army as they tramped through this area fighting the Polish Army and the population.
It's hard to say I *like* this book, given the subject matter of war and death, but I certainly admire Babel's writing.
The orange sun is rolling across the sky like a severed head, gentle light glimmers in the ravines among the clouds, the banners of the sunset are fluttering above our heads."The gist of the book -- Babel was a journalist for the Red Army in the 1920 Soviet-Polish war.
As I said -- I don't like the book, but I admire the writing and the way Babel composes each piece to create a montage of a horror happening to average people.
Yoğun bir plazma içinden dört boyutlu bir zamanda ve mekanda yolculuk yapmanızı sağlayan hikayeler başka türlü anlatılamayacağını düşündüren betimlemeleriyle gerçeğe sadık görünen nesir-şiirler, aynı zamanda."Her yanımızda erguvani haşhaş tarlaları ışıl ışıldı, sararmaya yüz tutmuş çavdar başakları arasında oynuyordu gün ortası rüzgar, yeni boy atmış karabuğdaylar ufukta uzanan bir manastırın duvarı gibi yükseliyordu.
Sakin Volın Irmağı kıvrılarak uzaklaşıyordu bizden, bir akağaç koruluğunun gümüş rengi sisine dalıyordu; koru, boy atmış şerbetçiotlarına zayıflayan elleriyle tutunarak, rengarenk yamaçlara doğru tırmanıyordu.
Portakal rengi güneş gökyüzünde kesik bir baş gibi süzülüyor, ince ışığı sis vadilerinde tutuşuyor, günbatımının sancağı başlarımızın üzerinde dalglanıyordu.
Isaac Babel’s collection of short stories entitled Red Cavalry was published in 1926 and is a classic of Soviet literature.
It deals with incidents of the Civil War and the 1920 campaign against Poland led by Cossacks under Budyonny’s command.
It focuses on the conflict between the intellectual protagonist and the violent soldiers and the contradiction between the actions of the ruthless revolutionary soldiers and their idealistic, although usually inarticulate aspirations.
Often shocking, sometimes tender, this newly translated collection is essential reading for anyone interested in Soviet literature, or indeed for anyone interested in the literature of war.
This is Babel's fictionalized account of his journalistic days as a writer for the Krasny Kavalieri - "The Red Cavalry" - the Bolshevik propaganda newspaper written for the Cossack shock troops who marauded the Ukraine and Poland in 1918-1919.
As harrowing as any war coverage ever written by Ernest Hemingway, Babel has a precise, beautiful, haunting prose style excellently translated in this Norton Edition.
Banned under the Soviet Union, Babel was purged by Stalin for displaying the horrors of war and its unflattering masters instead of the glorious myth of Soviet Revolution.
An expressionistic son to the dreamy portraiture that is Turgenev's "Sketches From A Hunter's Notebook"...
Red Cavalry consists of around 100 pages of Isaac Babel's Red Cavalry stories, plus another 90 pages of field notes Babel took during the Polish campaign and a few other odds and ends.
Lacking any explanations, the stories in no way enlighten readers as to what the Russo-Polish war was about or what actually happened.
They remind me of And Quiet Flows the Don, a book that's stylistically very like this collection.
Of the three, only Tolstoy's The Cossacks has really given me any clear picture of what these people are like.Babel's field notes and the other filler add nothing to the stories.
Ravaged countrysides, ravaged people turning on each other. Cosacks weeping over dead horses while corpses pile up. Civilians trying to survive. Hayrides armed with machine guns. Our hero finds himself pissing on a dead Polish soldier, covered in ripped up propaganda leaflets. Synagogues burning, 20 years before Hitler made it official. The word "Czernobyl" pops up once or twice for extra emphasis. Even harsher in hindsight.
A set of violent snapshots of the Cossacks of the Russian Revolution. Tragic and blood-drenched and poignant.
This small collection of short stories written in 1920s, is shocking both in its content (an absolutely brutal raw description of Russian civil war) and its form (harsh, vivid, sometimes fantastical language, ferocious in its intensity and expressivity).
Sadly if you don’t speak Russian the linguistic shock value of the book will be lost on you.
In fact Bykov made an emphatic point that all existing Babel’s translations are subpar, although the rumor has it that a new one is coming out.
O exército de cavalaria é composto por 34 textos, que contam de forma real e um pouco ficcional, através de outro narrador, a passagem de Bábel pelos exércitos vermelhos, os exércitos de Lênin e Trotski, na guerra contra a Polônia.São textos violentos, com cheiro de sangue.
Mas o narrador da história não trata isso como anormal.
Tudo que é contado nos relatos não possui emoção ou arrebatamento, é como se fosse mais um dia comum de tortura, estupro, morte e fome na vida dos soldados.Minha expectativa com relação a esse livro era completamente diferente do que foi apresentado.
Absolutely stunning. Babel is a favourite of mine, up near the top.Read an article today (July 09) about him on Narrative:http://narrativemagazine.com/issues/s...made me want to go and dig out my copy immediately. (I will when I get home from work).I notice no friends have this on GR. I can't believe none have read him. Is it because it's so obvious it doesn't need saying? (or maybe the comments are on another edition, I've noticed that in the past).
Ik las het boek omdat het is uitgekozen als boek van de maand in de leesclub van De Correspondent. De verhalen van Babel zijn huiveringwekkend én prachtig. Een vreemde combinatie die me nog het meest doet denken aan maanlicht op een uitgestrekt natuurgebied - alles staat in een koude gloed, schaduwen zijn zwarter en het licht is witter. Ik kan de verhalen meer waarderen wanneer ik ze hardop voorlees.
Isaac Babel, a Ukrainian from Odessa, is one of the best known short-story authors of the 20th century.
Red Cavalry demonstrates the horrors of war.
The collection of short stories was based on Babel’s diary written while he was a journalist covering the First Cavalry Army of the Soviet’s.
His diary has been transformed into horrifying stories which reveal the atrocities of war and of anti-Semitism.
The titles are revealing: “Te Death of Dolgushov,” “The Cemetery in Kozin,” “Treason,” “After the Battle.” Babel does not hesitate to look at the reality of human nature: One Cossack is described as an “indefatigable lout…future ragpicker, carefree syphilitic, and leisurely liar”.
Alice Munro must love Isaac Babel:"I mourn for the bees.
They have been destroyed by warring armies.
There are no longer any bees in Volhynia.We desecrated the hives.
There are no longer any bees in Volhynia." (The Road to Brody)"And whenever the obdurate will of war brought us together, we sat in the evenings on a sparkling earth mound, or boiled tea in our sooty kettle in the woods, or slept next to each other on harvested fields, our hungry horses tied to our legs." (Sashka Christ)All 4 pages of Salt.5 stars for this Peter Constantine translation, and this Norton edition.
After thinking more about it, I have to update my rating from 4 to 5 stars. This book is just outstanding.
Grim Fairy TalesThe text of these short tales flows best as bare narrative, though Babel desperately tries yo embroider them with fiery and original imagery which fails to distract from the callous savagery of the action and indeed in many ways complements it in an unexpected and almost garish light.
Echoes of Gorky prose and even Chekhov's consideration of the imperial poor.
But a whole new level to the single minded execution of revolutionary duty.
Makes it grotesque and fascinating though one suspects it may have been received with pride in the devotion and loyalty of the sixth division and even a grim humour at the inherent ironies of the situation.
Bloody, rich in colour and enormously straight. The Russian revolution and the white wars gave birth to a generation of impressive realist authors without ideal and Babel rightfully is their most famous proponent. Babel shares his experiences with naive, idealistic, primitive and bloodthirsty cosaks, his fellow cavallerymen. He shows a war with all shades of grey and certainly no white. An honesty that made him a literary shooting star and got him killed by Stalin some ten years later.
Tardé un rato en encontrarle el tono y el ritmo pero una vez que le encontré, todo se fue en sufrir y sufrir. ¿Si no hay miseria, sufrimiento y desgracia, realmente es una novela rusa?Una novela qué trata de la guerra pero que no habla sobre batalla alguna, más bien habla sobre la desesperanza y la miseria que produce la guerra en los soldados desconocidos y los civiles que los tratan, todo aderezado a ver como las promesas de los soviets se iban desvaneciendo.
Short stories of Isaac Babel. They're humorous in that the narrator is a Jew in a regiment of Cossacks - he doesn't really fit in, and he doesn't ignore the cultural differences of Jews and Cossacks. If you liked Catch 22, I think you'd like this one too.
Subliem
Nella prefazione al volume che ripresentava le opere di Babel' al lettore sovietico nel 1957 Il'ja Erenburg scriveva: «Nell'Armata a cavallo non c'è una difesa avvocatesca della rivoluzione, difesa di cui la rivoluzione non ha bisogno.
Per Babel' i combattenti dell'Armata a cavallo non erano gli eroi schematici che s'incontravano nella nostra letteratura, ma uomini vivi, coi loro pregi e i loro vizi.
Dell'amore che i vecchi cattolici chiamavano "carnale" e i puritani odierni definiscono "animalesco", Babel' scriveva francamente, senza ipocrito pudore.
Il "cupo fosco fuoco del desiderio" di cui parlava Tjutčev attirava Babel' perchè questo fuoco illuminava non la maschera dell'uomo, ma la sua faccia.
I struggle to fully appreciate quality prose when it's chopped up into so many different snapshots of war.My appreciation for the book is also certainly affected by the fact that I didn't read the last 100 pages, which were made up of Babel's diary from 1920.
I totally get the value of such a source and don't judge anyone for reading it (and I'm fine with Babel's daughter deciding to publish it), but I'm not going to read something if I don't feel like I was ever meant to read it.If you're looking for conclusions to draw from the book, there's really only one that stands out.
Red Cavalry is one of the most exhilarating, painful, and beautiful books I've read.
He then revised them, and Babel might revise a paragraph forty times, for collection in Red Cavalry.The language is brilliant.
He manages to convey the beauty of nature, though through the perspective a war, so that it often takes on a slightly violent, off-kilter look.
I kept finding myself determined to read the book through like a novel, only to have to come up for air every two stories, despite their brevity.
My advice is to simply read the book.
