https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1644404.Grey_Mask
As soon as I first ‘met’ Miss Silver in the book, Hetty Lange popped into my head.
These people refer to each other by numbers rather than names, which adds to the sinister tone and somehow makes them even more frightening.Charles happens upon a conversation between the leader of this group (who wears a grey mask) and different “numbers” who come to report to him.
I loved this story and am looking forward to reading more of the Miss Silver series – with any luck, I will make it through all 32 books before the 100th Anniversary of this, her first!
Thrown into the mystery, unable to go to the police for fear of Margaret's involvement, he turns to Miss Maud Silver.
Miss Silver seems to spend most of her time knitting, yet she is at every scene and knows exactly what is going on - she reminded me of one of Lord Peter Wimsey's old biddies, only she is most certainly in charge herself.
I love golden age mysteries and this had everything - lost and found heiresses, people disappearing, masked criminals, London foggy streets, snippets of letters and intrigue at every turn.
I will certainly read more by this author and this is the first in the series which features Miss Silver.
Grey Mask (Miss Silver #1), Patricia WentworthMiss Silver is well known in the better circles of society, and she finds entree to the troubled households of the upper classes with little difficulty. In most of Miss Silver's cases there is a young couple whose romance seems ill fated because of the murder to be solved, but in Miss Silver's competent hands the case is solved, the young couple are exonerated, and all is right in this very traditional world.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و نهم ژانویه سال 1993 میلادی
3.5★Just love the cover!Join Miss Silver as she unravels the mystery of the Grey Mask Gang!This Miss Silver was very different to the Miss Silver who appeared in the other Wentworth I've read  In the latter,she was a replica of the better known Miss Marple. In this novel, while still an avid knitter, Miss Silver is far more enigmatic figure and does a lot of her sleuthing from home.Since I love the torrid drama of old black & white movies I enjoyed the melodramatic romance between Margaret &
3.5★Just love the cover!Join Miss Silver as she unravels the mystery of the Grey Mask Gang!This Miss Silver was very different to the Miss Silver who appeared in the other Wentworth I've read
(including the identity of Grey Mask) Were we given enough clues to solve the mystery?
I don't think so but I did enjoy coming along for the ride.Finally anyone surprised that Margaret was lugging a desk around London streets might be relieved to see what it most probably looked like (although my googling found some gorgeous examples I've chosen quite a plain one.)
"‘He’s got lovely eyelashes. Charles was frightfully cross because I told him they were yards longer than his.’ ‘Men don’t have eyelashes,’ said Archie sternly. ‘It’s not done.’"This was a delightful and charming cozy mystery! Written in 1928, the Miss Silver mystery series was recommended years ago by a friend who shared my love of Golden Age mysteries. I can't think why I didn't start it sooner, but I challenged myself this year to start five new series so it spurred me forward. It was so eas
Written in 1928, the Miss Silver mystery series was recommended years ago by a friend who shared my love of Golden Age mysteries.
I can't think why I didn't start it sooner, but I challenged myself this year to start five new series so it spurred me forward.
What I always love about mysteries of this age are the references to a good meal, scalding and restorative tea, the humor, and of course the British angle.
Great start to a long series!
Dear Open Road Media: As a reader I know I cannot possibly discover and read all the fantastic books out there.
What do I love about Miss Silver?
When I discovered there were more Miss Silver books, I was thrilled.
Grey Mask is the start of this series, written by Wentworth in 1928.
He is skeptical until Miss Silver astutely guesses he will not go to the police because of his former love.This book is so fantastic, and I really urge you to pick it up for your e-reader, or see if your library has a copy.
The comparison of Grey Mask to Agatha Christie's Miss Marple is a natural one, although Miss Silver's debut actually preceded Miss Marple's.
Yet, Grey Mask put me more in mind of Ngaio Marsh's Roderick Alleyn novels.
Miss Maud Silver, a retired governess with a propensity to quote Tennyson, is also considerably more formidable and professional in aspect than the deceptively fuzzy Miss Marple.Don't get me wrong: Lovers of any of the Miss Jane Marple cozies will love Miss Maud Silver, as well.
It's a terrible pity that Miss Silver is so much less well known than Miss Marple, Hercules Poirot, Dorothy L.
Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey, Roderick Alleyn, or Josephine Tey's Alan Grant.
Grey Mask is the first in one of the classic Golden Age detective mystery series, one that seems to have been largely forgotten.
This is my first author from the era, so I'm not sure if this is normal or not, but Miss Silver (the detective) is just a minor side character.
I'm curious to see whether this pattern continues in the series.As far as the mystery goes, it wasn't one that I really tried to figure out.
Still entertaining though.I definitely plan to read on, but I also need to read some of the more well-known Golden Age authors for comparison.
A fun frolic from the 1920s about secret criminal organizations. There is humor and romance.
Reality TV takes everyone's dirtiest and smelliest laundry public.
The characters in this book would have expired in smallish heaps of the honour-vapours at their great-grandchildren's idea of entertainment.Miss Silver is clearly carrying the pertussis bacterium.
I remember from reading these books in the 1980s how irritating I found it.The identity of Grey Mask was pretty obvious to me from the first time they appear in mufti, so to speak.
Either you like that book or you don't.
Don't read this one and think, "oh well, maybe the others are better" because they really aren't.
Definitely not for me.This book was written almost fifteen years before I was born. This old British English language was very hard for me to read, kept stopping and and looking up the words I didn't understand. Plot and characters didn't capture my interest.
Charles Moray, who returns after travelling abroad for four years, stumbles upon a conspiracy to do away with a young girl (Margot Standing) when he comes into his home and finds a mysterious gang having a meeting there.
Miss Silver is also not centre stage in this one—Charles is more that—and while she knows and finds out a lot, it seems to happen away from the readers view (almost magically), without us seeing how she works or learns all she does.
But we do know her investigating style is more active than Miss Marple.
There are 32 books in this series. And my local library has them all!
GREY MASK (MISS SILVER: #1)Written by Patricia Wentworth 1928; Open Road Media Mystery (256 Pages)Genre: mystery, female detective, series, cozyRating: ★★★★Margot Standing finds out her father has died and not provided for her future, as his lawyer claims there is no will.
They wish to have her removed so there is no obstacle to the Standing fortune.Meanwhile Charles Moray has returned home to take over this family estate.
As Margaret, Charles and Margot try to figure out the mystery, Miss Maude Silver has it all figured out, all while knitting a jumper.A fun novel from the late 1920s.
Wentworth writes an engaging mystery but I wish we knew more about Miss.
I really quite enjoy these cosy little mysteries.
I like Maud Silver, I enjoy some of the bizarre characters and the unfolding of the action.
Many of these books have the protagonists, particularly the women, behaving very stupidly, often becoming estranged from the hero because they valiantly keep secrets which no sane person would keep.
These grand noble secrets are usually clumsily necessary to the plot, and utterly ridiculous and frustrating.
The big secret the heroine keeps to herself in Grey Mask is particularly grating.
Also, a main character (poor little heiress) is honestly too dumb to live.
I'd seen Patricia Wentworth's books in the library, I'd picked up a couple in charity shops, but it was Lisa's warm praise that had me seeking out the first book in the series and starting to read.I do like a golden age mystery, I was curious to meet a lady detective who predated Miss Marple by a few years, and, as checking the catalogue reassured me that my library has most of the books, I wasn't too worried about the possibility of falling in love with this particular series .There are thirty-two books in total, and they were published between 1928 and 1961.Now, let's start at the beginning.The story opens with Charles Moray returning to his family home in England after a long absence overseas.
He visits his old house but instead of encountering childhood memories, he comes across a gang of criminals who are using his home to plot murder and theft.
When they come across a missing heiress, Charles' ability to deal with grey masked men plotting murder becomes of primary importance.
I mean, come on, how many people in grey masks have ever plotted crime in empty manor houses?I liked Charles as a character, and the other secondary characters were fun too, though not too well developed.
Though we never get to see how Miss Silver finds things out!I enjoyed this book and it was a pure comfort read.
I really didn't know what to expect when I began reading Grey Mask.
The book started off rather slowly, I felt, but before I knew it I was involved in the mysterious Grey Mask and his gang.
By the end I had decided I must have more of Miss Silver, the detective who gets to the bottom of the mystery.
This book is the first of a number of Miss Silver mysteries so that particular wish has a happy outcome.Patricia Wentworth had this book published in 1929, and she gives us a good view of life in England at that particular time in history.
This book was written in 1928 but great mystery writing is timeless. The only fault I could find is that Miss Silver, who is the new detective introduced here, is not very clearly drawn as a character. I didn't get a good sense of her at all. The other characters spring to life but she is left to linger in the background. Perhaps this is intentional but I wanted to know her better since she is to be the character the series revolves around. Perhaps this will be remedied as the series evolves.
I enjoyed this and look forward to reading more in the series. Presumably Miss Silver comes more to the fore in subsequent books in the series, as she didn't seem to play much of a part in this one. She felt like a device used to reveal information required to move the plot forward, but with no mention of how she came by it. No matter; I didn't read it expecting to be baffled and astounded and it was a perfect listen during a pleasant afternoons stitching.
Like reading a film noir - I would have rather watched it. Full of action and one dimensional characters. Definitely a typical golden age mystery symptom. Why read this kind of mystery when I can read mysteries that are more literary and have fully fleshed out characters. I don't know if I'll pick up the second one.
Received to review via Netgalley; republished 28th June 2016So far I’ve only read the first of the Miss Silver Mysteries: Grey Mask, which was published originally in 1928, and features mostly some young people whose lives have been messed up by a criminal network.
Margot’s rather silly, but the aborted romance between Charles and Margaret is sweet — I found myself rooting for them before long.I figured out the culprit pretty easily, but I was still interested in learning all the hows and whys, and there is quite a sense of tension in the last couple of chapters.It’s fun, but not groundbreaking at this point; I’ll read more of the Miss Silver books, but I’m not hooked.
Especially, perhaps, if you’re a fan of the genteel lady detective, Miss Marple style.Originally posted here.
This is particularly good Miss Silver mystery. Highly recommended.
I didn'the get much of a feel for Miss Silver herself in this book. It is the first of the series. Some nice twists at the end of the book.
Well, well, well....what a nice, unexpected little surprise! I think I may just have found my new series addiction! This book transfered me very successfully to 1928 England and I enjoyed it immensely! Even if the ending could have easily been predicted, the characters were very likeable, Miss Silver so intelligently unique, the whole atmosphere was given to the reader in the most efficient way and I just had a great time with it! Can't wait to read the rest of the books which are, thankfully, a lot, and explore many more stories with Miss Silver's help!
1 1/2 starsImagine every cliche and ridiculous coincidence that can go into a book and you'll have this pegged. I'd try to describe the plot but it's really a mess and not worth my time.
It's hard to read a period piece nearly 90 years old, even though it has the luck to reek of Edgar Allan Poe and to be said the model for Agatha Christie's Miss Marple.
Pieces of it were great fun, the super-silly little Greta who has such lengthy and delicious views on multiple engagements for the great fun of it --"...
three weeks is enough really ..." But the plot is intricate and well woven and the characters memorable, although one wishes Miss Maud Silver were just a bit more memorable.
Imagine ...
there are 31 more of these in the series!
Grey Mask was originally published in 1928 and is the first of Wentworth's Miss Silver mysteries.
To unravel their diabolical plot, he contacts Miss Silver, a onetime governess who applies her reason to solve crimes and face the dangers of London's underworld.If you enjoy classic "whodunits" from the 1920's - 1930's, you will enjoy this novel.
(more on my blog about the rules.I enjoyed this mystery and although Miss Silver has only rare appearances, Wentworth must have developed the character in the next novels featuring the retired governess.
I'm more than willing to find out!Has anyone else read a Miss Silver mystery?
This book Grey Mask is still good.
Yes it is really dated but it still a good mystery with somethings that surprised me at the end.Charles is back from abroad after he left England four years ago.
He was engaged to Margaret for a real short time after being friends for years.
He found his gate unlocked and then the back door was left open a little so he went in quitely and saw a light in other room and voices.
Charles was set to find police when he saw Margaret and recongized her.
Miss Silver does alot of her sleuthing in the background and seems to let the major players figure things out themselves and only comes on the scene when there is something they need to know/see.
I found this a bit disconcerting since the book is labeled a 'Miss Silver mystery' and would have liked to have seen how she sleuths, like we do with the Miss Marple books.
This book was not terribly outstanding, but I enjoy Golden Age mysteries and I think this one qualifies for that distinction.
Because of that I am being a bit more lenient in my rating (for better or worse!).
