https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853520.Death_On_Demand
Only after discovering the dead body in Elliot's house did she realize the predicament she had put herself in and tried to erase the evidence of her presence.I did like Max. He was funny, audacious, handsome and rich.
I think Annie was a little harder on him sometimes than she should have been, especially about getting a real job.
I also enjoyed the frequent references to other famous mystery writers, such as Agatha Christie, Rex Stout, et al, even though many of them were unfamiliar to me.I'm hoping the series gets a little better with the later installments, so I will definitely read the next book to see what other mysteries Annie and Max get involved in.
When local author, Elliot Morgan, is murdered by a poison dart in her shop during the Sunday Night Regulars meeting, Annie becomes suspect number one.
With numerous references to local sites, the setting had a wonderfully familiar feel for me.
The characters had great detail and back stories, the bookshop references are great for any mystery lover, and the mystery plot was easy to follow but hard to guess, which is always mystery novel perfection.There were quite a large number of characters, which made things a little confusing at times, but could easily be overlooked since the rest of the book was such a great quality.
Audio book performed by Kate Reading.Annie Laurence inherited her uncle’s estate on Broward’s Rock Island, South Carolina, including the mystery bookshop Death on Demand.
She’s made a success of it, partly because the quiet island is home to several successful authors, who regularly meet at her store on Sunday evenings for coffee and an informal presentation about writing mysteries.
When the presentation is interrupted by a power failure she is momentarily relieved, only to find that while the lights were off Elliot was murdered.
Before long she is the target of the police chief’s suspicions regarding not only Elliot’s murder, but her uncle’s untimely death, and the deaths of several other island residents.
One of my favorite things about the Death on Demand series is Hart's numerous references throughout her books of other mysteries and mystery authors. A fairly prolific mystery reader I have been surprised by how many titles and authors she's introduced to me.
Great first book to this series.After reading a few in the middle, I know I'm a rebel, I got my hands on the very first one. I enjoyed it and will continue on from here.
#67 - 2010.I read about Carolyn Hart in Mystery Scene magazine and so requested this first of her series about a married couple who runs a mystery book store.
Although they aren't married in this book, one can see the writing on the wall.
Evidently one of the things that series fans enjoy is the married couple's good relationship and I was curious to see how that might be done without getting cloying.
It is "cozy" without being too much so and the idea of a locked room mystery (more or less) in a roomful of mystery authors has piqued my interest.Final comments: I actually enjoyed every single thing about this mystery ...
This is my first experience reading a novel by Carolyn G.
Hart and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
"Death on Demand" is the name of the bookshop which caters to my first choice of reading selections ~ Mystery and Detective Stories.
With the numerous references to mystery titles and mystery authors throughout the story, I could now go back and savor exploration of those I did not recognize.
I also appreciated the descriptive language used by Carolyn G.
Hart that captured my attention and added to my visualizations as I was reading.
Closing the novel there remains one question which is quite perplexing to me.
Reread an old favorite of mine. I love how technology in the late 80's was so "primitive" and there weren't cell phones everywhere. Love the premise of Annie trying to solve a real murder by reviewing murder mysteries and what fictional detectives would do.
After a reading jolt (meant in a very good way) of James Lee Burke, I usually have to take a brain rest with a little, quick read “cozy.” Little, yes 200 pages; quick read, no I had a lot going on; easy to follow, no, not so much with a lot of characters; fun read, definitely!Set on a small South Carolina barrier island called Broward’s Rock Island, the area is a haven for mystery writers and has one mystery book store aptly named Death on Demand.
I've been reading Lorna Barrett's Booktown Mysteries and on the front or back cover, it says that fans of the Death on Demand series would like Booktown Mysteries.
I also found it hard to believe, from the drawings in the book of the island and it's layout, that the ferry driver could NOT know someone.
I mean, the island was TINY.
I know that Max probably only marked the players on the map, but still, there wasn't a lot of space left over for all the other people.
I realize this is a series, but the island can support that?
I really did not like this book at all.
I didn't care who did it, and the only reason I finished it was because I wanted to see how the author crafted the motive for the murders.
The descriptions read like something written by a college student in a creative writing class.
The dialogue was not convincing at all.
I should have followed the review written by one reader on amazon.com in which s/he complained about the dialogue but also the idiotic things the main character did.
I will NOT be reading more in the series or from this author.
Death On Demand is a Bookstore on Broward's Rock Island in South Carolina.
When during a book signing by Elliot Morgan of her latest book during a weekly gathering of Famous Mystery writers called the Sunday Night Regulars is proof positive the Bloody Sword is mighter than a pen .
When Elliot Morgan is found murdered in the locked bathroom in the book store.
So she sets out to catch the killer with the help of her Boyfriend Max Darling the stakes are high failing to catch the killer could mean prison for Annie but catching the killer could also mean her Death!
Just finished this one up. I like Max way more than Annie. I'm not sure if I like the sprinkling of other titles or if I'm annoyed by it. I think that the author might have done it a bit too much. Okay, okay I get it the main character owns a bookstore specializing in mysteries. Still think there may be a bit of overkill. I'm hoping that since it was just the first book in the series that she eased up a bit in the rest of the books. We'll see.
I've read a lot of the Death on Demand mysteries but it has been a long time since I read the first one. It was written in 1987! I enjoyed meeting the characters again and the tension and competition between Annie and Max was good fun. There is a warmth to the book that seems to be missing in the more recent ones. There are lots of interesting characters and plenty of twists and turns to keep you reading. I did think there were too many book references but that is a minor detail. All in all, a fun read.
The owner of a mystery bookstore, Death on Demand, on a beautiful South Carolina island finds herself the main suspect in a group of murders. Now, she must figure out the real murderer using her knowledge obtained from reading classic mystery books. There are many references to real mystery books throughout the story - a few of the books I had to research on Goodreads. This book was a very enjoyable read! I was hooked from the very first page - a list of supplies needed by a killer that is missing one item...
A new series for me to read and I really liked this series. A new start in a new place and running a book store her Uncle owned and left to her when he died. But not alls good when a member of the Sunday Night Book Gathering dies in the book store and she accused of not only one but that of another and of her Uncle as well. So it's up to her and her befriend to find out the answer's before she's put in jail for good.
This is the first book in the Death on Demand series (it is an older series). I have had the book on my TBR list for several years. I enjoyed this cozy mystery-it had a setting that I liked (island off of South Carolina), the main character owned a bookstore and a small but close group of suspects. It was a fast read and enjoyable read.
I read Death on Demand (not the one by Gordon Ashe--a pseudonym of John Creasey) quite some time ago (years ago), and decided to revisit it since it has been so long that frankly, I couldn't remember much about it except the bare bones outline of Annie Laurence inheriting her uncle's bookstore and making a go of it, and acquiring a rich beau (Max) who wants to marry her as soon as he can get her to say "yes." Oh, and that it was quite good.Well, that's not quite true--it's more than that.
Thankfully Annie has a strange friend who comes to visit the town and help her out.Very cute!
The author obviously knows and loves her mystery, making the bookstore a strong setting by referencing writers and famous characters from a large variety of mystery sources throughout the book.
It's a cute cozy but doesn't offer much new in the unique front - the sherriff is an enemy, but the town's quirky cast helps.
Book-themed cozies are among my favorites when paranormal isn't involved.
A good series will bring more excitement with succeeding titles and that’s what higher feedback is for.One fly in the ointment was euthanasia.
That’s a fluke and it will have no bearing on any more novels, which I expect to devour.
The things I love immediately include the most memorable fictional bookshop to date.
The food station, organization, cups bearing famous mystery titles, the bird in the entrance, and of course the kitty.
I love the focused interviews at each home.
The loving childhood with Annie’s uncle creates a warm history and I like our heroine.
"Death On Demand" by Carolyn Hart is the first mystery novel in this series.An owner of a bookstore specializing in mystery books holds weekly Saturday evening meetings with the island's mystery writers.
When the lights come on, one of their own is found dead on the floor, a poisoned dart in his throat.The island's rather ineffective police chief wants to pin the murder on Annie, the owner of the bookstore.
But she knows she didn't do it, and so does her boyfriend, Max. If the police aren't going to search too hard for the murderer, then they'll have to do something about it themselves.And so their investigations begin.
An owner of a bookstore specializing in mystery books holds weekly Saturday evening meetings with the island's mystery writers.
When the lights come on, one of their own is found dead on the floor, a poisoned dart in his throat.The island's rather ineffective police chief wants to pin the murder on Annie, the owner of the bookstore.
But she knows she didn't do it, and so does her boyfriend, Max. If the police aren't going to search too hard for the murderer, then they'll have to do something about it themselves.And so their investigations begin.
I enjoyed it so much that I decided to read the series from the beginning.
I figured that my little mystery book group would enjoy it so I chose Death on Demand as our December title.
Annie Laurence, owner of a mystery bookstore on the tiny island of Broward's Rock, SC, finds herself the prime suspect when one of the authors from her Sunday Regulars discussion group is murdered.
One of the things I enjoy so much about this series is the many references to various mystery authors and titles.
I enjoyed this first in series and will be looking for the next shortly.
I find that as the series goes along, it gets better, and always like making note of the mysteries that Annie has on hand.
That's why I'm holding on to this copy- to check out the mysteries and to see if this is one that has a family favorite locale inaccuracy regarding ressurection ferns.
When the weather is warm and dry, they look almost like a lichen on the tree branch.
But when there is mositure in the air, they unfurl (hence the name resurrection) and look like a real live (little) plant.
This was a reread of a book that brought me back to mystery reading in the 1980s. The first in the Death on Demand series, it incorporated some of my favorite elements in a mystery: island setting (in this case, off the coast of South Carolina), bookshop owner as the main character, and other mystery writers providing the closed group of suspects. I loved the many references to classic mystery titles, reminding me I have so many more to read. A very entertaining read. 3.5 stars rounded up to four.
I'm torn with rating this book.
On the positive side the mystery was pretty good, and I didn't figure it out until closer to the end.
And the characters of Max and Annie were cute, although Annie seemed alternately impulsive and prissy.
Negatively, though, there was a LOT of mention of famous mystery writers and their characters, most of which I was unfamiliar with.
So a lot of the clever thinking was lost on me since I didn't recognize the books or the situations.
I'd rate this book 2.5, but I'll round it up and try another in the series to see if it gets better.
I am so pleasantly surprised by this book. I'm always a little wary of cozy mysteries because they can be so unbearably cheesy and eyeroll worthy. But this is not that. This is a great little murder mystery with an interesting (if not slightly too large) cast of characters. While I can take or leave Annie herself, her boyfriend/partner Max completely won me over from the start.I don't know that you're supposed to say murder mysteries are "feel good" books, but this is. It's just an easy, relaxing, totally enjoyable read.
I enjoy this mystery. It was some what simple to solve but not too obvious. The characters are cute and fun though a few are a little creepy. I found the computer references super funny. I know at the time this is the tech but still makes me giggle and think about how far we have come... since I am writing this review on my phone.
I didn't feel the love for this book at all. I would read a chapter put it down come back and read another chapter. I finally just released, I need to just move on. I have a few other books begging me to start them and that is what I'm going to do.
This is the first book l've read by this author and I enjoyed it. I will be reading on in this series.
