https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/757438.The_Man_Who_Planted_Trees
e pequenos bosques de bétulas por onde serpenteiam alegremente alguns riachos.O que outrora fôra um deserto despovoado, era agora um local de felicidade celebrada , partilhado por numerosas famílias!...Parece fábula mas é a mais pura realidade!Elzéard Bouffier existiu mesmo e é um ícone, um símbolo, uma prova viva do poder milagroso do "Homem que Cultiva o seu Jardim"!!!E acresce referir que foi um deleite conhecê-lo -- a sua Generosidade é tocante e a sua Paz contagiante..."O Homem Que Plantava Árvores" presenteia-nos com um Mundo para lá dos Infernos, apontando-nos um Caminho:Simplicidade, Paz e uma Causa NobreUma fórmula simples, que merece ser celebrada - Venha daí o champanhe: Tchim, Tchim ;) :)São 5 estrelas cintilantes :))
I read this book in its entirety (a slim 46 pages) sitting alone in a cafe in Annecy, in the French Alps.
So I sat and read it, such the typical American tourist, in a cafe in Annecy le Vieux over a carafe of Jura wine.
Afterword, I paid the bill and left and wandered up to the castle to look over the town, my head glowing with a half bottle of wine, and watched the shadows of the clouds move slowly over Lac Annecy and up the mountainside, and felt that strange feeling, a dream-like nostalgia for a lost world I never knew, that only Giono evokes so particularly.
The ﬁve or six houses, rooﬂess, gnawed by wind and rain, the tiny chapel with its crumbling steeple, stood about like the houses and chapel in living villages, but all life had vanished.”He was looking for water and starting to get pretty nervous when he suddenly spotted the shepherd and his well-kept cottage.
And the government is passing laws about protecting "natural forests" like this, and life goes on.The man who planted trees reclaimed the land, and you don’t need me to tell you the moral of the story.
This evoked the feeling of reading a myth carrying with it a powerful message, that is written and inspired with total respect.
The final few lines are some of the most moving I have come across."When I reflect that one man, armed only with his own physical and moral resources, was able to cause this land of Canaan to spring from the wasteland, I am convinced that in spite of everything, humanity is admirable.
ABSOLUTAMENTE maravilhoso!Lê-se de um fôlego e retém-se para a vida toda.
Foi um mero acaso encontrar este pequeno grande livro, nas minhas buscas para deliciar e inspirar os meus filhos e acabei por comprar uns quantos e oferecer a quem muito quero.
Uma lição de vida, de humildade, de perseverança, transmitido com mestria e a sensibilidade necessária para imprimir na nossa alma o poder do amor, do respeito pela natureza e pelos outros.
O homem tem a capacidade de mudar o mundo, está em cada um de nós, só é preciso querer, querer verdadeiramente.
Muito mais poderia dissertar, mas o melhor mesmo é lerem e o guardarem no coração.
After more heavy rains followed by flooding in Cumbria the recommendation to minimise further problems was to plant more trees. This was plainly a sign to write a review of The Man Who Planted Trees, a task in a way I'd rather avoid (view spoiler)[ despite my vaunted intention to review each book I read since joining Goodreads (hide spoiler)].The problem isn't that I disapprove of planting trees far from it (view spoiler)[ though I don't think that planting in massive blocks of single species is
This was plainly a sign to write a review of The Man Who Planted Trees, a task in a way I'd rather avoid (view spoiler)[ despite my vaunted intention to review each book I read since joining Goodreads  (hide spoiler)].The problem isn't that I disapprove of planting trees far from it (view spoiler)[ though I don't think that planting in massive blocks of single species is a particularly good idea (hide spoiler)], and unlike Reader's Digest which rejected the story when they found out that it was fiction I don't have a particular problem with that.
We wonder how the story will end.(view spoiler)[In the story, time passed, and Elzéard Bouffier seemed to be unaware that there was another World War, in which the narrator was again engaged from 1939.
However, this was merely bolstering up a myth.The Man Who Planted Trees is such a moving and unforgettable tale, that when it was told and published, many readers believed that Elzéard Bouffier was a real person, and that Jean Giono had written himself into the story as the narrator, making it partly autobiographical.
"Ele sabe muito mais do que todos nós. Encontrou uma bela maneira de ser feliz."Precisamos de acreditar que, no nosso mundo, existem de facto almas puras como a de Elzéard Bouffier. Oxalá as guerras lhes passem sempre ao lado.
Giono's response was to produce this simple, bucolic tale about a lone shepherd who takes it upon himself to plant trees singlehandedly across vast swathes of the Provençal Alps.The landscape which, at the start of the story in the 1910s, is desolate and bleak, has become by the end, in the late 1940s, a sort of rural paradise of lush woodland, running streams, and happy red-cheeked villagers.
Then again, sometimes you need a bit of encouragement, and certainly this short story has a message to deliver and captures the landscape of Haute Provence with great sensitivity.
I had happened to see Warwick's review of this book in French and I realized that I had never rated it. My book, as you can see, is the English version.A fabulous, tiny, simple book about a man in France who planted acorns.The wood engravings by Michael McCurdy are superb and worth getting the book purely for that reason.
Área Florestal Ardida - Outubro 2017 - PortugalPortugal's biggest wildfire: 'We all thought we were going to die' – videohttps://www.theguardian.com/world/vid...Se querem ser mais felizes plantem árvores…(view spoiler)[ O pastor – Elzéard Bouffier – inspeccionou e seleccionou as bolotas que tinha apanhado.
E plantou as cem bolotas com enorme cuidado.”Decorridos vários anos ”… percebemos que os humanos podem ser tão eficazes como Deus em outras áreas que não a destruição.”  (hide spoiler)]Esta edição da Cultura Editora tem magníficas ilustrações – a preto e branco - da We Blog You.Incêndio em Vieira de Leiria, às 17:00 de 15 de outubro.
If this performance is devoid of all egoism, if its guiding motive is unparalleled generosity, if it is absolutely certain that there is no thought of recompense and that, in addition, it has left its visible mark upon the earth, then there can be no mistake.An amazingly relaxing and uplifting allegorical story of a man, Elzeard Bouffier, who, in the solitary and barren lands near Alps, planted trees and did nothing else, and, surprisingly, was very content with his life.
The wind on its tiles made the sound of the sea upon its shore.” For over forty years while two world wars raged, scarred the face of earth and passed by; he kept planting trees.
‘İnsan bütün bunların tek bir adamın elinden ve ruhundan çıktığını düşününce, insanoğlunun yok etmenin dışındaki işlerde de Tanrı kadar yetenekli olabileceğini kavrıyordu.’  Şöyle ufak bir alıntı bırakıp sizi Elzeard Bouffier’in hikayesini okumaya davet ediyorum. Çünkü kendisi hiçbir karşılık beklemeden, çorak bir araziyi azmi ile tek başına ağaçlandırıyor. Ve üç kişinin yaşadığı bir kasaba onun sayesinde yıllar sonra onbinlerin yaşadığı bir yer halini alıyor.Kitap ağaç sevgisini aşılamanın da
‘İnsan bütün bunların tek bir adamın elinden ve ruhundan çıktığını düşününce, insanoğlunun yok etmenin dışındaki işlerde de Tanrı kadar yetenekli olabileceğini kavrıyordu.’
Çünkü kendisi hiçbir karşılık beklemeden, çorak bir araziyi azmi ile tek başına ağaçlandırıyor.
Ve üç kişinin yaşadığı bir kasaba onun sayesinde yıllar sonra onbinlerin yaşadığı bir yer halini alıyor.Kitap ağaç sevgisini aşılamanın da ötesinde bir insanın yaptığı bir eylemin nelere sebep olabileceğini o kadar güzel anlatıyor ki.
Doğanın dengesi yeniden kurulurken siz mest oluyorsunuz, kalbiniz sıcak bir his ile sarmalanıyor.Elzeard Bouffier’in gerçek olmasını o kadar çok istedim ki.
Yine de böyle güzel bir mesaj bize bu kitap sayesinde aktarıldıktan sonra kitabın arkasında da dediği gibi;‘Fark eder mi ?’
Que alma grandiosa, que generosidade apaixonante, Elzéard Bouffier será eternamente memorável!!É uma obra pequeninha mas tão sábia, tão tocante que me encheu o espirito, encheu-me o coração de esperança que o ser humano seguisse semelhante sabedoria. A natureza é também para mim um refúgio de felicidade e paz interior por isso não podia deixar de adorar :)
E agora?Depois de conhecer Elzéard Bouffier como posso eu continuar a ter a ilusão de que sou determinada, persistente e generosa?Vou ter de o esquecer...
This is a simple story about a man who continued to plant acorns all by himself though his half-life.When I read this book about a year ago, it didn’t move my heart much. But, it worked after a while, helped me find a purpose of my life, although a very small hope but made me strong. Grateful to have read this story.
This seems like such a waste of time and effort at first, but over the years, the once arid hills slowly become covered in luscious plant life, small abandoned villages are repopulated and the entire country side comes back to life.The obvious moral of this little tale – even small actions can lead to big changes - is overshadowed by the absolute beauty of the language Giono uses to describe his home country.
The story of a lonely old man, who with great care, selflessly reforests an entire desolate region simply because he can is also very inspiring.
Who in the villages or in the administration could have dreamed of such perseverance in a magnificent generosity?Seems sad, but accurate, to me that had he been “detected” he would have been stopped.
He was not seeking praise, he was seeking to restore the land, and he had done everything he set out, without any fanfare, to do.
It has almost something to do with God’s Providence despite the fact that I have frozen my faith.What lobbied me?First, I liked the way Jean Giono himself introduced his story by giving us his wisdom.
If this performance is devoid of all egoism, if its guiding motive is unparalleled ge- nerosity, if it is absolutely certain that there is no thought of recompense and that, in addition, it has left its visible mark upon the earth, then there can be no mistake.”Writing this part guided me to understand the crux of the story.
Reading this story chastened me that the key to saving our barren earth is human spirit.
I think peoples’ opinions on this book are based more on the message of the book rather than the story itself.
It’s the story of a shepherd who plants trees over many years, slowly transforming his barren part of the world into a flourishing fecund forest during the years of the First and Second World Wars.
Sure, except… Except it’s a short story not a book.
And the story is especially simple.
Really it’s just a very average short story that nonetheless has become something of a popular classic because of it’s accessibility and positive message.

Minimalistic, touching and heartwarming. The entire story feels like watching an impressionist painting in subtle earth tones with touches of green from a distance; it was painted not so long ago, so the paint dries. You can feel the sun warmth on your skin, sharp winds on the empty valley edges and see drops of yellow flowers on the rocks. Sun's shadows play under the trees.Really wonderful, I wholeheartedly recommend this. It can also be read in no more than 20 minutes, so you really have no excuses.
Umut dolu bir öykü.Bir kaç zamandır ne yapacağımı bilmediğim sıkıcı dönemlerin birindeyim, içim içime sığmıyor. Kitap falan okuyamıyorum zaten. Haliyle kaç zaman sonra elime aldığım ilk kitap Ağaç Diken Adam oldu. Acaba acaba diyerek okuduğum bu kısacık öykü son sayfasıyla önce suratımın asılmasına hemen sonra deli gibi sırıtmama neden oldu. Güzel bir düşünceyle yazılmış özel bir kitaptı, çok beğendim.
El narrador nos cuenta cómo en 1913, durante una excursión por la Provenza, a través de una zona árida y abandonada, se encuentra con un pastor, Elzéard Bouffier, que se dedica a plantar árboles de manera altruista.‘El hombre que plantaba árboles’ (L’homme qui platait des arbres, 1953), del escritor Jean Giono, es una historia sencilla, un relato inolvidable.
Se trataba de la adaptación al castellano de la grabación original con la maravillosa música del Paul Winter Consort, que he escuchado infinidad de veces.
A mensagem é ecológica e a escrita "limpa"....sem floreados.Contudo, ao ler este livrinho, que se lê em menos de nada, não me saiu, uma única vez, do pensamento as imagens dos inúmeros e violentos incêndios que tanta destruição e sofrimento causaram, neste verão, no nosso país. Entretanto, a nossa pegada destruidora não para de se tornar cada vez mais funda!
I like this short story.
The simplest description of it is: a man plants trees to turn a barren land into green, lively one.
While people around him are busy fighting World War I and II, by killing, burning, bombing and all the rest of the distruction that people are forced to take part in while fighting wars, he is not destroying anything, but building up.
So there is a pacifist message in all this tree planting.
One can find a lot of things under the surface of this story, and what is more, all these allegorical angles work for me.
For that reason I think it is a good short story.
Geçenlerde 37 yıl boyunca ağaç dikerek kurak araziyi ormana dönüştüren adamın hikayesi geldi gündeme. 1979'dan beri ağaç dikiyormuş. Düşününce ütopik bulduğumuz olayı Jean Giono 1953'te yayımlamış. Belli ki evrende karşılık bulmuş. Edebi açıdan değilse bile insanlık adına umut vermesi açısında on numara beş yıldız.
First published in 1953, the text has remained relevant, and it is no wonder that its author Jean Giono declared that this is one of his works that he is particularly proud of: It reflects his love of nature, his pantheistic convictions, and the belief that a single man can make a difference if he puts his heart into it.
The narrative voice is very clear and direct, the text does not require extensive efforts to decipher its meaning and the message can easily be understood by anybody - and from this lyrical simplicity, Giono distills enormous beauty.
For the love of Trees , please read this book  This book has inspired many people to plant trees .
The book was published in 1953 and written by Jean Giono .
For many years people thought the book was inspired by a real story .
I myself a tree lover and love to plant trees .
“Creation seemed to come about in a sort of chain reaction.
This was the most impressive result of chain reaction that I had seen.
These dry streams had once, long ago, run with water.” ― Jean Giono, The Man Who Planted Trees Happy reading ..

