https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/701773.The_World_of_Suzie_Wong
I wish the HK of today was like that of the one I first visited in 1988, let alone how wonderful it muust have been as portrayed in the late 50s of this book.The world is not only Suzie's.
Not only is Suzie a finely drawn character, so are her friends and along with Robert and his connections with the ex-pat community this becomes a terrific portrait of HK in the '50s.Both Robert and Suzie see this world clearly but because they come at it from such different perspectives their reactions to that world and how they express them form the foundation of their relationship.
i had never previously read about anyone that told my story so closely.
the conflicts that robert lomax experienced about suzie wong working in a bar will be viewed very differently depending on whether the reader is male or female, young or old.
richard mason couldn't pull that story from his imagination , he had to live it.
i tried to read mason's other books and couldn't.
i read that mason said he stopped writing because he had nothing else to say.
thankfully he wrote suzie wong before he stopped writing.
i've been with my "suzie wong' ten years now.
Of all the fictions written by Western authors about "mysterious Asians" this one is probably my favorite now. Im completely fascinated by the story. I don't know how Richard Mason did it, but all of those details put you back in time, alongside Suzie Wong and her lover and sisters, in Hong Kong. There is just the right amount of sorrow AND happiness to make it work. Great love story too.
Pretty much just as racist & misogynist as you'd expect it to be. Like a fucking biography of every dirty old cheek-toucher in Lan Kwai Fong.
I read Richard Mason's Suzie Wong for the first time during my first trip to Hong Kong.
Recall it is where Richard Mason penned his 1950’s tale of forbidden love, “The World Of Suzie Wong,” though a lot has changed since he wrote “take a minute’s stroll from the center and you won’t see a European.” The pick-up bars still line the road, yum-yum girls luring passersby into their neon-lit dens, but these are the illegitimate daughters of Suzie Wong, not of Chinese but Thai dissent, wearing not elegant silk cheongsams but cheap miniskirts raised to immodest heights.
Richard Mason was unafraid to address head-on issues that would have been taboo to discuss at the time it was written, and he defines the character of Suzie Wong with honesty and compassion for who she is.
She is not the "submissive Asian girl" of non-Asian fantasies, but simply herself in all her feisty glory with her own way of dealing with the grief and grit of her prostitute's life in post-War Hong Kong.
I wondered if it grew out of Mason's own journals.
But a story that grew out of the authors' love for Hong Kong and its people.
I read this book 15 years ago and remembered enjoying it, but recently I re-watched the movie, so picked the book up again.
It's amazing how much of the story the film cut out of the book.
I thought Richard Mason did a great job of portraying a certain part of Hong Kong during the late 50s and the different people who inhabited--or simply visited--Wanchai.
It's too bad the film cut out that part.
If you're going to watch the film and read the novel, I'd suggest watching the film first, then reading the book, which is usually something I don't do!
A totally unexpected surprise. Recalling an old movie of the same name (which I've never seen), I picked it up from the library where a new paperback “cult classic” edition was on the “Did you miss these?” shelf. I was amazed to read a 1957 novel that captivated me from start to finish with the Hong Kong romance of expatriate artist Robert and local prostitute Suzie, an “exotic” setting and eccentric cast of characters, and a forthright, ahead-of-its-times portrayal of both a sexual underground and colonialism’s insidious, exploitative effects under the civilized British veneer. A fun, insightful, resonant read.
Very evocative and thoughtfully written novel that could have trodden a well-worn path into cheap exploitation but didn't. I was aware of this book as a child, mostly because of Tsai Chin's hit song from the Lionel Bart musical. I haven't seen the William Holden/Nancy Kwan movie, but I don't see how it could translate to the screen. It's a skilful example of British writing from the very end of the colonial period - which is why it's compared to Somerset Maugham, I suppose - and it's a classic of its type, so well worth a read.
In spite of the setting, this is a well-written love story that crosses cultures and social strata. Suzie often keeps her thoughts hidden, which enhances the drama in certain portions because we never really know what she is thinking or how she will act. Far from being a callous, shallow individual, she is in fact a very complex and endearing woman. I was sad when I reached the end of the book because I wish the story could have continued. Will definitely re-read this one in a few years' time.
Another book I adored as a teen, and I'm so thrilled to see it has been rereleased.
I'll be reading this again soon.
I first read this when I was about thirteen, and then at least another four times while I was still at school.
I can remember the impact the setting had on me--Asia!
The Far East...
(I have since lived in various parts of Asia for many years, and my sons are Eurasian.)I look forward to reading this again and seeing if it still holds a 5 star rating.
For now, it remains such a special book to me.
Even for its time this book is mind numbingly horrid. Humbert Humbert is a more sympathetic character than the self absorbed, hateful, arrogant, racist, arrested-development fuckwit character who narrates this story. Just read the scenes with Suzie's baby. Pretty much a huge waste of time and paper, and will make you feel slightly ill afterwards into the bargain.
Such a simple story, and really simple dialogue too but Suzie Wong feels so real and their love felt so reasl. After I finished the book I had a hard time believing she didn't actually exist. Some people may find parts of the book rather culturally insensitive but let's remember folks that the book was written in the 50s.
Found this on my father's bookshelf and thought I'd give it a try. Thoroughly enjoyed it, such lovely storytelling. I felt as though I was right there although I only know the new Hong Kong. Even though it was set in a different time, it still reminded me of my favorite places around the island. Wouldn't recommend the movie though.
Living in Hong Kong, i've wanted to read this for a long time. Finally got round to it. Was great to read about this city in the 1950s and the story was also very compelling.
This book takes you to an era and world that is no more.
I have been fascinated with Asian culture since reading as a teenager all the books of Pearl S Buck.
The main character Suzie is so vulnerable and yet of such strong backbone it makes you weep.
She is all at once naive, wise, vulnerable and fierce.
The ending gets a bit muddled otherwise I would have given it 5 stars.
It gives you an insight into the culture of the time in Hong Kong.
If you are tired of all the romance authors of the day, give The World of Suzie Wong a try.
It bears no resemblance to modern day Hong Kong, of course - it's set in the 1950s, with all the attendant romance of a colony so very sure of itself, and told from the point of view of a man in love with the city and its people and disillusioned with the West.
But as a story, a love story, it holds up surprisingly well, with lots of sharp little details like the prostitutes having to go to an STD clinic, and the clever observations of race and social class, that stop it becoming too mawkish.The Suzie of the title is beautifully complex, the supporting characters interesting and varied, if only lightly sketched, and the story itself is compelling enough to draw you in and keep you there.
I think it is a really nice love story and Richard Mason's beautiful style of writing makes it one of those books that feels very smooth and flowing to read, so I found I could easily get into the story.
He does a good job of presenting the reader with varying perspectives, while still through the filter of the narrator, Robert Lomax.Overall, I like this book a lot and I especially like the message it conveys of being comfortable with and proud of oneself.
Suzie's relationship with Robert and journey towards self-acceptance conveys this positive message about beauty and confidence.

Written in the 1950s, this book has been dusted off by those interested in Hong Kong and China.
Rather than reflecting the ugliest of 50s stereotypes, the book is more nuanced about Hong Kong and the Cantonese.
Despite being progressive for its time, there are moments in which ugliness peaks through and I found this very interesting.
But this is a page-turner with interesting characters and I was glad to be put back in that time to consider how much we have changed and retained our prejudices about the "Orient" and Asian women (the book can hardly bring itself to consider Asian men).
Not sure how well this has aged....
On the one hand, some of the painful expat stereotypes are alive and well, as are the somewhat strained relations between westerners in Hong Kong and the local Chinese population.
Certain inequalities are alive now- Wanchai is still the red light district and a seedy dive, it is lacking in some of the nostalgic, colonial vibes that colour this novel.
Certain melodramatic elements don't ring true and leave the reader feeling cold.
The initial meeting Suzie and the 'hero' is memorable and Suzie rises above her role as exploited Wanchai girl.
The world of suzie wong, is a novel where a british artist falls for his model Suzie Wong a chinese prostitute.
For her beauty captivates him the moment hes first lays eyes on her but, she a woman that is very hard to get.
No matter how hard Suzie tries to push him away, Robert Lomax is persistant in winning her.
Though I have seen the movie version with William Holden so many times, I never thought there was more to the story than I expected.
Do give Richard Mason's fabulious novel reading time, you don't know what you are missing if you don't read it.
Entertaining . . . different. Robert Lomax quits his job because he want to see if he can make it as a painter. He moves to China where he moves into an apartment above a bar which is always frequented by sailors for reasons you can imagine. He becomes very friendly with all the 'bar girls' and love happens. Not the typical story. While reading this book, one must always remember it is called "Suzie's World" . . . not "Robert's World."
I enjoyed this book very much and couldn't stop reading it! Now I will go finish watching the movie - but the book is far superior based on the first hour of the film. Hong Kong in 1958 seems like a very interesting place!
What a great book - it's a don't miss. A true picture of Hing Kong. Beautiful love story with strong characters.
Wonderful book, although perhaps more interesting since I could identify the locations mentioned and the aspects of culture written about. Highly recommended as a unique love story.
Ich fühlte mich, als ob ich dem Protagonisten, Robert, stets über die Schulter schaue.
Ich hatte den Eindruck, dass ich mir eine Dokumentation über einen in China lebenden Engländer anschaue, sein Leben und Leiden als noch unbekannter Künstler in ein fremdes Land.
Es wurde nichts beschönigt und auch nichts unnötig eklig oder schockierend dargestellt.Mich störte es auch nicht, dass das Buch sich sehr umfassend mit dem Leben der sog.
Auch fand ich es sehr enttäuschend, dass trotz des Erfolges, sowohl auf beruflicher als auch auf privater Ebene, keiner der beiden sich wirklich weiter entwickelt hat.
A blurb on the back cover of my copy of The World Suzie Wong compared it to the work of W.
About the only similarity between Suzie Wong and the works of Maugham is that Suzie's protagonist, Robert Lomax, starts out on a Malayan rubber plantation.
As such, it separates itself from Maugham's universe in a fashion much more similar to Conrad's work on pieces such as Almayer's Folly or Lord Jim. Finally, I have come to this novel late.
But so good is Mason's writing in Suzie Wong, that I soon had those images driven from my mind by the very real world of 1950s Hong Kong he creates in the novel's pages.
Unknown to him, however, the hotel is a brothel in all but name, inhabited by girls who cater to the needs of the visiting sailors.The greater part of the novel describes how the girls gradually become his friends (once they’ve realised he’s not a potential client), how he gradually falls in love with one of them (the eponymous Suzie), and how they deal with the problems that arise from this transracial romance (for this is in the 1950s).Mason writes in the first person, with an easy flow that brings Suzie’s world effortlessly to life, almost in front of your eyes.Never mind if you thought the film was rubbish — read the book.
Not my usual reading material.
And I can't say it did any favors for my pre-existing prejudice against expats.
The author had clearly spent time in Hong Kong and did a good job re-creating the atmosphere.
My greatest fear was that Suzie Wong would simply be an exoticized Oriental [sic] who existed solely for the sake of plot.
While some of her background story didn't entirely "ring true", Suzie Wong was an actual developed character.
Can't say the same for the narrator (see prior point on prejudice against expats.).Can't say I'd ever recommend the book.
But I read it out of cultural and historical curiosity, and it was worth that.
