https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401876.The_House_of_God
As I tell people: I liked the morals, not the story.The message on why "the boys" didn't like the chief, how doing nothing is good medicine, and the difference between gomers and old folks are very pertinent to me and how I practice in healthcare.
The delivery of medical care is to do as much nothing as possible.Healthcare in the 21st century has gotten better at following the "less is (sometimes) more" idea, and the ethics of end-of-life care (beneficence and pt autonomy) are much better than that portrayed in the book--and yet the issues are still prominent today.That being said: I couldn't keep track the different interns, making the story difficult to follow.
I don't usually review books I rate at 3 stars or lower, but this is an exception: I detest this book so much that I feel compelled to write something about it.Make no mistake: I am a resident physician (and read this book during my internship year), so none of the horrible things that happen in the book faze me.
The book is of historical interest in that regard, but given the depth of the emotional toil that is internship, I expected a lot, lot more out of the "classic novel".It also doesn't help that the central character acts like a sociopath, and I don't think you can blame that solely on the system.
Nenoriu ne todėl, kad ši knyga būtų bloga, priešingai – nepaisant astronominio kiekio cinizmo, abejingumo ir paniekos, kurios visam pasauliui kupini šios knygos herojai, knyga tikrai nebloga bent jau tuo, kad priverčia susimąstyti ir pagalvoti apie žmonės, kurie diena po dienos, valanda po valandos kapstosi augliuose, pūliuose ir kraujyje ir kaip tai turėtų juos veikti psichologiškai, kurie yra mūsų laikų dievai, lemiantys kas gyvens, o kas mirs, ne todėl, kad neturėčiau minčių, bet todėl, kad po šitos knygos apėmęs jausmas yra toks, kaip įkišus rankas į puvėsių ir gleivių kupiną kupstą – pasąmoningai supranti, kad nieko baisaus ir kad tai tik paprasta organika, bet labiausiai vis tiek norisi tik daug kartų nusiplauti rankas muilu ir daugiau prie tos nekaltos organikos nebesiliesti.
Along with the television show Scrubs, it's the most accurate portrayal of American medicine that I'm familiar with.
I gave it to my father and he called me saying that he wanted to go medical school.
I gave it to my mother and she called me crying, asking if my job really is as bad as Shem makes it out to be.
Though today, with so much of medicine being patient-directed (and not physician-directed), I think you could look as this as a quaint little black mark on American history -- like the old cartoon cigarette commercials, or the movie "Freaks".
The essence of medical care continues to be placement.
I felt I should read this book, described as the "Catch-22 of medicine" before graduating from med school. It was scary how accurate most of it is, right down to the 'Laws' of the House of God quoted throughout. Remember, Age + BUN = Lasix dose. But well written and a good read, although I don't know how funny it will be to those outside the medical profession (probably still so to spouses).
Almost everyone who has reviewed it on here appears to be a doctor and the number of 'just like real life' comments astound me.
Medicine really is a different kettle of fish in America in that case.There are flashes of familiarity and a few incidents and feelings have a ring of truth (with a few things I suspect only doctors could really fully appreciate).
There were no major train-wrecks in our first year (though I have seen the toll on other doctors over the years).I think it's an ever lasting theme amongst the medical profession.
We were all fairly aware what life as a junior doctor would be.
Disclaimer: I was did my internship and residency at the other hospital, "MBH," in Shem's classic novel about medical training, at the same time that he was busy observing his fellow house officers and higher ups at the House of God. So my take on this book is colored by immersion in the culture he parodies, and by the fact that one of his main characters bears strong resemblance to a medical school classmate who interned in Boston at Shem's hospital.
There was a Fat Man in my training program - actually several of them- and I suspect everyone who has become a doctor knows a few.
The Fat Man's rules all contain germs of truth.
The isolation and uncertainty that comes after one error, and the lack of support or counselling by senior staff - now that can be all too common, and the story of the unfortunate Potts is a frightening example of just where that can lead.I think one of my favourite reflection-of-reality moments was the way Roy seemed to feel, over and over again, that each new rotation was better than the last - excited with the change he'd think he had finally found a way to be human in medicine, before the inevitable disillusionment.On the other hand, a lot of what occurs in this book simply wouldn't happen in the real world, or at least it wouldn't in a 2013 hospital in Australia.
One of the medical interns sat down next to me and asked me if I'd read The House of God. I thought he might have been trying to convince me to join some obscure religion.
I hadn't, I warily told him so, and he threw his hands up in the air and said "You have to, you need to read it, it's real life put down on paper, and it will stop you going mad.
Or make you feel better about going mad when you do get there.
This book IS real life down on paper.
Reir, llorar, vomitar y temer el momento de tener que ir a un hospital.
Fats teaches the interns the rules of the “House of God.” He is trying to teach them how to not be hurt by working at the hospital.
What Roy had to learn (from Fats) is that these jokes are only acceptable in the company of other interns and residents on the unit.
Eventually, Roy does learn how to become a less cynical doctor.This book is appealing for a lay-person because it describes so much of the day-to-day workings of the hospital for interns.
it's really made me question my reasons and my idealized imaginations of going to med school and becoming a doctor, but it's also helped me realize and solidify the true reasons why i want to become a doctor.
i'm glad to have read this now, before i've started my one-track path to med school.
even after reading this book, i still want to do it.
this isn't just a book for medical students!
it's a book that everyone can read and gain insight from.
What an excellent depiction of all that medical training is but shouldn't be.Few thoughts: 1) Some of my Family Med colleagues thought House of God was abhorrent.
We've come along way since the 1960s, but there's still a long way to go.2) I liked House of God so much, I wanted to recommend it to my favorite fellow readers.
But, I can't imagine that it would be fully understood by non-medical people.
(So if you're interested, we can always discuss afterwards.)3) Lastly, the elephant in the room: my only real gripe about House of God is the excessive sexual situations.
Actually, I rate the book at 3.5 stars.As true as the back cover read, the book is raunchy, troubling, hilarious and another personal addition, it's DEPRESSING.Plot Outline: The story is narrated by Dr. Roy Basch, a student of BMS, about his life during the year of his internship at the House of God. The central characters are: his constant girlfriend Berry, his co-interns Potts and Chuck, senior the Fat Man, the hospital hierarchy including Jo, Fish and Leggo, the nursing staff at the hospital with a special mention of Molly (his part-time pass-time) and, of course, the patients.A lot of things about the book actually troubled me, most of them rooting down to the Fat Man.1.
I found myself smiling often while I read it, either agreeing with the humour or grimacing from the honesty.
I can see why people out of the medical field often do not enjoy this book, but I definitely found much to relate to throughout.
Medicine is not as neat and tidy as the public would like to believe.I like to think that my clerkship has not been anywhere near this level of destructiveness but there are some similarities.
Berry.Read this book if you're in the burnout zone of a medical career.
And then also if you're not, and you're not scared from losing faith in medicine.
Un libro que la mayoría de residentes de medicina con sentido del humor y con dudas de sí mismos y de su profesión (que deberían ser todos) tendrían que leer de manera obligatoria.
Está llena de sarcasmo, puyas al mundo de la medicina, cuñas psicoanalíticas y carga sexual pero en conjunto es una gran novela satírica escrita con buen ritmo y estilo, aunque el autor no deja de demostrar su extensa cultura en muchos comentarios de los personajes.
En el libro te emocionas, te aburres, te asqueas, te indignas, te intrigas e incluso te excitas.
Sin duda tengo que leer la continuación porque promete.
Humor remains a way stress is relieved in medicine, as we all have at times felt we are in a crazy situation with a patient or family and there is no straight or sane way through the night.
While highlighting the humor in stressful situations, Shem helps Basch find his way back to humanity after his long year of internship, reminding us that most of us in the medical field are basically caring, sensitive, smart people who have chosen to take care of the sickest and neediest among us.
I would carry it around with me all the time and hand it to everyone who asks why I'm not studying to be a "real" doctor.The sad thing is that this dehumanization (of self as well as others) does happen to far too many people, and not just in the medical profession.
'How?''You're saying women like Jo make lousy doctors because they're women.''Nope.
I'm saying women like Jo make lousy people because they're doctors, just like some men do.'"Reminded me quite a bit of Catch-22, but easier to read because the time-line is pretty much straightforward.
Oh my goodness, this was so good, and so painful!
Funny and endearing enough to make up for all the horrible, and there is a lot of horrible.
This is very true to modern medicine as I have experienced it.
Regardless this is an incredible and a marvelous read.
It breaks up well enough for reading on the bus, although at over 400 pages it is a little long for that.
I would certainly recommend this to anyone with any interest in medicine, whether as a provider or as a customer.
So this was recommended to me by a Physician I worked for. It amazes me that 5 years in an Emergency Department and I can see some of these patients as well as the residents clear as day. It's not for everyone and if you are not in medicine in some shape or form, you probably wont get it, but if you are, then remember, its suppose to be funny and it is.
Fantastic! A must read for medical students/residents/doctors everywhere. I can only imagine how meaningful this was to readers when it was first published and the culture of medical education was so different.
Samuel Shem nos la cuenta sin tapujos, y la Casa de Dios es el escenario: los miedos, las inseguridades, las burlas, los apodos puestos a sus pacientes, la frustración ante la muerte y ante la limitada medicina, la desesperanza, el estrés, y por supuesto, el sexo dentro del trabajo como escape al trabajo mismo.
De los numerosos personajes que pueblan sus páginas solo uno es realmente memorable, el Gordo.
Es el mentor de los médicos de la Casa de Dios, inicialmente repudiado y finalmente idolatrado, porque dice lo que todos callan y expone sin reservas las restricciones y vicios de la medicina.
I was pitched on this as being something like Catch-22, but about medicine instead of war.
This made me dubious because (1) I don't know that I think Catch-22 is exactly about war and (2) comparing anything to Catch-22 is going to make me dubious on general principles.Still, this was really worth my time.
It was funny and sad and touching and interesting, and the fact that a lot of doctors seem to say that it conveys a real feeling of what internship is like is *crazy*.
I don't think it'll become a book I reread every few years like Catch-22, but it was terrific.
There kinda just seemed to be...no plot?
Too much excess material. The parts about the hospital mostly were good. The interludes in the interns' (plural) loves lives and oddities were too much. I know it was popular but note my cup of tea.I quit about page 153 out of 400. Too many good books waiting to wast time of this.
A worthy rival to Tally and O'Connor's guide to basic medicine.
Over the years, I've been told many times by many different people that I should read The House of God. These recommendations usually come with some variation on an explanation that the book is a thought provoking insight into the delivery of healthcare and/or medical education.
For that, I would recommend this book to any medical student or resident.This exploration of the trials and challenges of medical training becomes consuming - to the protagonist and to the reader.
Hardly enough for me to come close to seeing past the frat-boy-like detailing of the protagonist's sexual exploits and abuse of nurses, social workers, and the solitary female resident so unflatteringly depicted in the novel.
This was a cult book in its time in the 1970’s amongst medical health professionals and in many ways it would have been brutally shocking.
Roy starts his first year Residency at the ‘House of God’ a prestigious Jewish hospital – where people still remember the Holocaust, had friends and family impacted by it and the hospital almost represents the clawing back of the Jewish community to prestige, wealth and status.
Roy walks in anticipating being a hero and a saviour and is confronted by a community of old people who smell and are dying and are demanding.
Funny, dark and confronting it still holds relevance to medicine today.
Ultimately, I empathized with the book's portrayal of the brutalization and dehumanization of the interns, but what I could not come to terms with was the protagonist, Roy Basch, being an incorrigible bastard at baseline.
In all the references to House of God that I've read, nobody seems to mention how terrible Roy is, and it bothered me constantly, especially given that he is ostensibly based on the author.
In summary, a hilarious satire with a deplorable protagonist, and essential reading for any would-be physician needing to learn to laugh at the absurdity of the system (that's all of us).
I think that if medical internship literature was an actual genre, this book would be its Lord of the Rings, its Dracula.
Without giving anything away, this book details - excruciatingly - the trials and growth of a fresh doctor in his first year of residency, deemed internship.
Women and madness, with the occasional diagnosis or medical procedure thrown in...but rarely, as one of the laws the doctor learns is, in essence, that good medicine is doing as little as possible.I would have given this five stars, it is definitely a must read; however, it is dated.
