https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28293.Life_A_User_s_Manual
It was only after I finished reading and put the book down that I realized that I was going to miss this charming book.After hearing out little anecdotes and life stories of a multitude of characters, after reliving moments of their lives through their stories, it is now time to say our goodbyes.
Today is different because I carry this refreshing and heartwarming feeling within me.Now I am having a hard time figuring out what book to read after this while I go through a Perec withdrawal.
This book is best read slowly over a couple of weeks while savoring little moments and several lives you encounter through this.
From the opening few chapters, right through to it's end, Perec's ingenious novel is complex, puzzling, serious, side-splitting funny and wholly original.So, ever looked up at an apartment building and wondered what goes on in there?
And this only touches the surface!, as the attention to detail walking around these apartment rooms is so thorough, it feels as if you are trapped inside one gigantic department store showroom!, so the building itself becomes a living, breathing part of the jigsaw, just as much as the actual residents.
Kubrick’s technique was employed to show a thing’s limitations within a space; Perec’s technique is employed to show their resonance; how these small, almost indifferent things are the clues left behind that, when worked through, piece together immense worlds.So much of this book is lists of objects, beautifully described.
Objects, whose arrangement in our lives is like the finger trace left in a film of dust on an old desk, the proof we came this way, did this or that.
These lists of objects that make up so much of Life are the great part the characterizations of the people who make up this book.
the rooms, the ephemera and the stories of each of these people carry equal importance throughout the novel, and while epic, it is not the traditional epic narrative of one or two family's lives.
as you read on, you will come to understand that the intention of the author both towards the novel and towards you, the reader, is to understand that the ephemera, the lists, the lives of things are every bit as important as the impossibly fantastic stories told side-by-side about the characters inhabiting the building.
By the end, it seemed to me like a clear-cut canonical biggie (eg, Moby Dick, Infinite Jest, 2666, Ulysses), but better natured than these -- also, it didn't seem like much of a chip was trying to be knocked off the authorial shoulder.
It's like Beckett's sucking stones section in Molloy: elaborate, infinitely detailed processes eventually reduced to nothing, but not with semi-suspicious "creative writing 101" poignancy -- here it's a celebration of the word in this book's title.
Highly recommended to people who like to read, especially those readers into towering literary artistry (ie, audacious, original, extraordinarily well-executed, life-affirming, good-natured, inspiring masterpieces).
Life: A User's ManualI seek the eternal and the ephemeralHaving just closed the book, I feel a bunch of things.
Even so, I think it's impossible for one to discover all the "surprises" (see easter eggs) Perec has hidden in his text and if it hadn't been for Achilleas Kyriakidis' afterword -whose work in translating the book is a major accomplishment in itself-, I would have missed even more of them.
It's a book one has to read in order for one to understand its uniqueness and majesty.
Nihilistic and optimistic in its own way, Life: A User's Manual is likely to stay in your mind for a long time.
The latter calls for an active author-reader relationship–the epigraph taken from Jules Verne, says: "Look with all your eyes, look", 'cause "every move the puzzler makes, the puzzle-maker has made before; every piece the puzzler picks up, and picks up again, and studies and strokes, every combination he tries, and tries a second time, every blunder and every insight, each hope and each discouragement have all been designed, calculated, and decided by the other.""What makes LAUM an exemplary architext is "its almost complete interpenetration of theme and structure, so that to describe one is to describe the other", the novel is "set" in an apartment building on Rue Simon-Crubellier (but as we read on, we realise) that the book is the apartment building itself.
This book brings so much more than just comfort and consolation of an exquisite read - it leaves you breathless, light-headed and, at times, defeated.
And if the last piece of the puzzle does not fit in and the empty space laughs sarcastically in our face, then at least we will have and bequeath the memory of the path that we paved with every day of our life: the greatest, most intriguing and beautiful puzzle of all.
Or think we have seen...This glorious, delectable visual feast of a novel, is constructed in the manner of an elaborate jigsaw puzzle.
And we the viewer are transplanted from apartment-to-apartment (if one were to view the building front on like a Chess board) via a single knight's move.A knight moves two squares parallel to one side of the board and one square parallel to the other side.
A novel of such intense descriptive writing, you might think, would collapse in on itself under relentless documenting of detail.
The opposite is true, for Perec also expresses the humanity in the heartfelt life stories —through the ages— of every inhabitant of the building.

Especially when I don't think I'll like it.
Which is a shame, because I like the idea of Georges Perec, and I like the photo of him in the front here.
I like the cut of his jib.
Then I expect I'll say something like: Georges Perec is the larval stage of the French whimsy which became the butterfly of Jean-Pierre Jeunot, who brought the interconnected magical-puzzle aspects of life to - er - life in his great movie comedies Delicatessen (the dark version) and Amelie (the light version) and Micmacs (the crazy revenge fantasy version).***update : yes, I thought so.
I got lucky on this one and knew roughly where to turn in Lolita and found the exact phrase about two pages into the 16th chapter of Part Two. My luck sort of ended there and I resorted to just googling particularly colorful passages in the other chapters I knew were supposed to contain Nabokov references.
If you have stumbled across any of the other hidden literary allusions let me know!Anyway, this is a great book and it is amazing how Perec managed to pack in so much stuff (the references, the Knight's tour schema, etc) and still somehow manage to create and tie together so many far-flung and interesting stories about people who all lived in the same apartment block in Paris during one moment in time.
Life: A User's Manual is the absolute and fundamental treatise on the theme of jigsaw puzzles where every chapter is a piece in a puzzle – a fragment of a house, a tessera of the cosmic mosaic.“The room’s walls are painted in white gloss.
Several framed posters are hanging on them.
One of them depicts four greedy-looking monks sitting at table around a Camembert cheese on the label of which four greedy-looking monks – the very same – are again at table around, etc.
I never liked Gabriel Garcia's 100 years nor Robert Altman's Short Cuts: the formula just doesn't do it for me: I can't take multiple narrative threads, hundreds of characters, all running around hither and thither like headless chickens till it does my head in and I don't know whats what, objects and stories and protags multiplying like a bad case of clap, nothing interconnects properly and you need a site map of whos who and his cat.
I'm a bread and butter kind of girl, gots to pass on the narrative gourmet on offer here: theres too many dips to dunk.
Observei salas, cozinhas, quartos, caves, e vi espaços e vidas de centenas de pessoas que de, alguma forma, estão ligadas umas às outras como se as suas vidas fossem um puzzle gigante composto de belas, infinitas e minúsculas peças.
Que me deixou a pensar na Vida e no modo de a usar...que é sem modo, pois mesmo que façamos um desenho perfeito, pintado de lindas cores, surge sempre algo ou alguém que nos baralha as peças e somos forçados a começar de novo e de novo, enquanto pudermos...(Saul Steinberg, The Art of Living)"O olhar segue os caminhos que lhe foram preparados na obra.", Paul Klee
It’s an existentialist work, in essence, tempered by its humanitarian outlook, but a book nonetheless about the pointlessness of human endeavour.
For me, it’s the vast reach of the imagination at work here and the depth of its creativity, the extent to which Perec realises his imaginary world, his vaulting ambition.
‘Life a User’s Manual’ can be seen as a novella about Bartlebooth and his project with an essentially unrelated series of short stories and apartment descriptions bolted on.
You can practically read this book starting with what chapter you want and then go in a random fashion and it won't be a problem.The descriptions of Perec are almost photographic, they really challenge your power of imagination.
He starts at the door and then goes deep and describes something written in a book which is shown in a photograph held by a guy who is in a painting.
It was very interesting to read it, the stories are nice and well written.
As I said, very very original !I am glad I read it.
Perec has a lot of imagination, Auster doesn't !
Μπορείς μόνο να διαβάσεις, να αφεθείς στο κείμενο και να μπεις στη ζωή μιας πολυκατοικίας, των ενοίκων, των προηγούμενων ενοίκων, των ανθρώπων που κρύβονται στις ιστορίες τους, στα αντικείμενα που τυχαία υπάρχουν αλλά κρύβουν στιγμές ζωής, στα όσα θέλησαν να κάνουν και δεν πρόλαβαν, σε εκείνα που τελικά έκαναν αλλά μετάνοιωσαν, στη γλυκιά θλίψη που τα ενώνει στο τέλος, στην ατέρμονη περιγραφική αφήγηση που σε μαγεύει, στο γεγονός ότι ένας μόνο άνθρωπος μπορεί να φανταστεί τόσα, γνωρίζει τόσα, τολμά τόσα, έχει τον τρόπο να ξεκλειδώσει τόσα και... αυτό το παζλ δεν τελειώνει ποτέ. Σαν τη ζωή ένα πράγμα.MAXMAG: https://www.maxmag.gr/book/zoi-pazl/
Many people misinterpret nihilism as only a negative or cynical approach to life and to the cosmos.
But with "Life: A User's Manual" (LAUM) I sense that Georges Perec is approaching nihilism as a very positive, creative force of being.
LAUM accepts our essential nothingness, but revels in the process that takes place between the birth nothing and the death nothing.
From LAUM: "In other words, Bartlebooth resolved one day that his whole life would be organised around a single project, an arbitrarily constrained programme with no purpose outside its own completion.The idea occurred to him when he was twenty.
Simultaneously so massive and yet so minute, allow a quick consulting of your Anti-Oedipus and then bring this to resolution. This novel brought considerable warmth and a curious attention to matters. Much like black bean hummus. Don't eat this book. Such requires a chuckle as I type.
Let me try to tell you - this is a book about the people who live (or have lived) in an appartment building in Paris in the 20th century.
Their lives overlap and influence each other in ways so that not one person is the same after having lived in that building.And neither is the reader who finishes this magnificent book.
It's not plot driven in any way, the only thing uniting these stories is they take place in the building or in the lives of people who have lived there.
Abandoning novels feels sort of cruel, like letting a whole bunch of people just fade out of your life without trying hard enough to get to know them, so generally speaking if I get past the first chapter I won't give up on a novel.
Perec treats the building like a mystery plot with a single figure at the heart of it, the artist Bartlebooth.
The plot is this: Bartlebooth spent 20 years travelling and painting ports, then got these pictures turned into jigsaws.
But Perec is so absorbed in tricks, life finds no way into the novels.
Yapboz parçalarının çok kısma ayrıldığını, en çok bilinenlerden birinin de insan figürüne benzeyenler olduğunu belirten bir yazar; insanları, hikâyelerini birer yapboz parçası gibi bir araya getiriyor.
Ortaya çıkan eser ne bir roman, ne bir öykü kitabı, ne bir ansiklopedi ne bir düşün kitabı.
Ortaya çıkan eser ne hiçbir şey, ne de her şey.
Bunu da başarsa başarsa Perec başarırdı herhalde.Elli günlük maceram, her gün bir hikâye, bir bölüm okuya okuya nihayete erdi.
Yalnızca kitabın sonundaki dizin kısmına bile baksanız bu adam ne yapmış böyle, değinmediği hiçbir şey kalmamış sanki diye düşünebilirsiniz.
Her okurun okuması gereken bir kitap, tam kelimesiyle "kitap" yani.

Il rischio più grande, per un'opera così ambiziosa, è che si innamori della propria struttura, trascurando il contenuto: dopotutto questo libro è ambientato, sì, in un condominio parigino; ma lo si esplora locale per locale - dal bagno di un appartamento alle cantine, alle scale di servizio, a una sala da pranzo, all'ascensore, alle camere di servizio e così via - seguendo le mosse del cavallo nel gioco degli scacchi per coprire tutta la scacchiera, visitando ogni casella (tranne una, in questo caso) e quindi ogni locale dell'edificio una sola volta.
Perec spends an inordinate amount of space in describing the furnishings, when he's not making up amusingly wacky lists, or telling another shaggy dog story about some guy getting fleeced or murdered or jilted in some suitably exotic locale.
Then there's some other stuff about matching the constraints to the chapters according to a Graeco-Latin square design, though to be honest it's not clear that those particular constraints add a while lot to the soul of the book.Because yes, the book most decidedly has a soul.
A surprisingly poignant central trio of characters (the jigsaw jokers).Oh, and quest stories.
This book has an inordinate number of quest stories.
I will never think of an apartment building the same way again. Or Perec for that matter, who I have given up on before, not this time.An astonishing, inventive masterpiece. Will live long in the memory.
The painter and collage-ist Robert Rauschenberg came of age during the heyday of abstract expressionism in the New York scene; and while his own work involves a similar level of abstraction (as, for example, 1954's Charlene, pictured above), he often found himself at odds with the dominant rhetoric of the "tortured artist." "There was something about the self-confession and self-confusion of abstract expressionism," he says, "that personally always put me off."There was a whole language that I
The painter and collage-ist Robert Rauschenberg came of age during the heyday of abstract expressionism in the New York scene; and while his own work involves a similar level of abstraction (as, for example, 1954's Charlene, pictured above), he often found himself at odds with the dominant rhetoric of the "tortured artist." "There was something about the self-confession and self-confusion of abstract expressionism," he says, "that personally always put me off."There was a whole language that I could never make function for myself; it revolved around words like "tortured," "struggle," "pain" [...:] I could not see such conflicts in the materials and I knew that it had to be in the attitude of the painter [...:] I used to think of that line in Allen Ginsberg's "Howl," about the sad cup of coffee.
Voglio invece dire, dopo averlo terminato, che questo libro scacchiera, questa matrioska ipnotica, mi ha fatto passare ore a perdermi solo per il gusto di perdersi leggendo storie insieme al leggermente malinconico sentore del Tempo (dopo Proust, anche lui ha un afflato per il Tempo...) quasi un co-protagonista principale, insieme a Percival Bartlebooth.Che, come questi, costruisce case e vite o acquerelli e poi le disfa senza lasciar quasi traccia, se non degli oggetti che le hanno riempite.
Il fatto che questo libro sia ambientato a Parigi gli conferisce, a mio avviso, alcuni punti a favor
