https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140088.A_Secret_Rage
(Trust me, the books are better than the show!)Before she was writing about psychics, werewolves, and vampires, though, she wrote “straight” mysteries, like the Aurora Teagarden series (called “cozies with teeth”) and the Lilly Bard series.
But before even those… Harris is a writer – and a rape survivor.
The stand-alone story describes Nickie, a model aged out of her career who has come back home to go to college and finally finish her education.
The rape itself is described, not in gruesome detail, but it is somewhat shocking and spares none of the violence, pain, damage, or terror that Nickie endured.
5 stars. I love charlaine Harris my favorite female author. This novel was so good I loved all the characters and I didn’t figure out who did the crime until she revealed it.
An okay read though very dated. The actions in the story were probably normal for when the book was published (1984) but wouldn't be acceptable now. The process that the two victims of the rapist used to reduce the suspect pool didn't make sense at all. The climax of the story; the identification of the bad guy was rushed and the method used to subdue him was almost comical.
After missing the South for so long and its easy peaceful ways, Nicki is looking forward to the pace and safety of small town life.Mimi Houghton is heavily involved with the college coordinating student and house activities.
Twice-divorced, she's looking forward to some quality time with Nicki, a best friend she has known since Miss Beacham's Academy for Girls where they first met at 14.Cully Houghton is Mimi's brother and the college counselor…and the object of Nicki's fantasies since she first met him.
After both rapes, Nicki and Barbara become friends.
It's a dated read at the beginning of the author's writing career, but for fans of Charlaine Harris, it's definitely a must-experience.
There are several very very intense scenes that were difficult to read for their sheer heinousness but whatever sick feeling you get in your stomach is meant to be there.Racism and sexism are also rampant, though absolutely and appropriately cast in a filthy light by the author.
I thought this book was handled well considering the difficult nature.
The rape does occur in the book and you get to read about it as it is happening to the victim.
Ok I could almost buy that but then it happens again and its love b/c she's loved him since the first time she saw him and well hey why not.
The rape never plays a role in this until one time he puts his hand over her mouth and then she freaks.
Needless to say not my favorite book.
It was a quick read (or "listen", in my case) - it felt almost like a short story, though there was decent character development for a full-length book.I liked how Harris had the characters work together to narrow down the list of subjects; it helped heighten the sense of suspense.
And in the end I was surprised at the identity of the attacker, so Harris did a good job maintaining the suspense throughout.I also appreciated Harris' handling of the subject matter, and telling the story from the victims' point of view.
Even in those scenes, however, I could appreciate Harris' skill, and literary turns-of-phrase.
This had .the makings of a better book. While I found the basic plot okay, I felt like the story was barely fleshed out: too long for a short story, not long enough for a novel. Ms Harris keeps things moving along so this is a light read: I felt like I'd had a light snack and realized I craved a heartier meal.
Great writing and well-constructed suspenseful murder mystery by Charlaine Harris.
Instead of a frighteningly gory slasher story, A Secret Rage explores how rape changes a woman's feelings about herself and her position in her community.
I really like the insights that Charlaine Harris has into her characters and life.
Those dreams can be very comforting when just being an adult is a burden." And I like this one: "Love is a habit as well as an emotion."
I'm a big fan of Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse novels, and have enjoyed the Harper Connelly mysteries as well, so I had high hopes for this little novel.
Starting off slow, and building to a violent climax, this story is an easy read, with enough bumps in the road to keep the reader interested.
Harris is an expert at writing a fight scene, as any reader of the Sookie books knows, and that talent does not go to waste here.
Her characters are not quite as full-formed as one might hope, but I did care enough about them to keep reading.
I was warned about this book.
It's really nothing like Harris' current writing style, but I also have to remember this was one of her firsts written in 84.
So it's your typical run of the mill mystery, not to my favor.
I will have to say that for the time she touched on a very taboo topic, she also let us in on how rape-- violent rape to boot-- affetcts not only the person but everyone incvolved.
That insight was ahead of the times.
If you're a Harris fan and can borrow the book, it's worth the read, but if not, don't bother.
Contrary to it's cover art, I wouldn't call this a 'cozy' mystery. The plot elements include some pretty difficult to read descriptions of rape and racism, (view spoiler)[sexism (hide spoiler)] and a high body count. It's quite good, but I wanted to include this warning for those readers easily triggered. Be warned.All characterizations could have been deepened. Definitely villain's motivations would have improved with more development.
I found this book, aside from being a compelling mystery, to be a horrifying insight into rape. Despite this, the satisfying ending, that does not often happen in reality, mitigated the misery of the story itself. It did address a lot of the misconceptions about rape and the after effects both individual and societal. I feel it's imporatant that people recognize and understand these problems.
Never a disappointment, Charlaine Harris comes through again. This stand alone was a quick, easy read on a serious subject, rape. My favorite local bookseller said she thinks Harris doesn't get enough credit for her work, and I agree. I think she's great and have enjoyed her entire series except Snookie Stackhouse. Just not into the vampires.
A much different mystery than the usual ones by Charlaine Harris. And the weird thing is: I knew whodunnit. I couldn't tell you why but for once I got it. And about halfway through the book. I'm surprised it wasn't a red herring I fell for because I trip over them every single damn time.
While I'm not certain that I have not read this book before, I really enjoyed it. It just seemed really familiar.
The book deals with rape.
Harris characters are always southern and that usually doesn't bother me, but it was emphasized so much it was just annoying.
Another issue I had was the developing relationship between the main character and a man she has always had a crush on.
A little morally ambiguous.What the book get's right is the ending.
The main character gets the man she has always dreamed of, but there is real doubt that she will keep him and he may be attracted to her because she is wounded.
I liked this book?
The first book by this author that I read was Real Murders (Aurora Teagarden series) and I loved it!
It was a good book but I wish I had read these two in the opposite order.
It wasn't as much as a mystery as the other book.
But I did appreciate that this author doesn't feel the need to use a lot of bad words or inappropriate descriptions; even when describing bad situations, she doesn't get too detailed.
It's good as a book but not so much as a suspenseful mystery or thriller.
A bit melodramatic....albeit very engaging. You need to reach the "who dunnit" conclusion, but know it won't quite fit -- like forcing a slightly oval edged circle into that round hole. "It was at that moment..." that I realized this was an ok read but certainly not one of Harris's best. Tiny pieces of description sprinkled into a moment puzzled me as to their significance, or possible future significance; often they achieved none and were mere distraction. Good. Not great.
c1985 (14). I can see clear signs of the author-that-is-to-be in this book. The heroine is very self absorbed, there is a romantic element and the gals are taking the bud guys on. It was an ok read but I can see why this didn't quite make her name when it was first published. An interesting book to read to see the growth in the author's style so therefore recommended to the Ms Harris' fans in the normal crew.
This book had the potential to be good. It provided a means through which to discuss the subject of rape and its effects on victims. And then the victim immediately jumped into a happy sexual relationship within days of the rape occurring, with a new partner, and it devolved into some warped murder mystery full of racism. It was a disappointment to say the least.
This one was a reread for me. I read it in the 90s or maybe the early 2000? Anyway the book is now 30 years old or so but some of the ideas about rape and unfortunately racism have not changed. I like that she didn't put a bow on it at the end of the book. No HEA just a woman moving on after something horrific. Still a good read.
As others have already pointed out this book is very dated (in multiple ways). The characters are not very fleshed out and the story is too short for a novel and too long for a short story. I have really enjoyed two of the author's series, but I wouldn't recommend this one.
I did not realize that Charlaine Harris had written this series......only three books i believe, which is sad because it is a great story line. I loved the Southern charm and grit of Mimi and Nikki. Wish there were many more 📚 to go.
Truth....I listened to the first 2 discs, but found it very graphic. Sissy that I am, perhaps. But really, I did listen to the last disc because I wanted to find out the bad guy. I was glad to find out, and the end was very satisfying.
I have always enjoyed Charlaine Harris. Every one is a suspect and I kept changing my mind on who I just knew had committed the crime so to speak. But alas, I was wrong. :)
This book ended too abruptly for me.
Interesting, thoughtful book. Many issues still relevant today, 30 years later
I enjoyed this although it feels a little dated. The narrator’s voice is self-reflective enough to make her accessible although the story itself is fairly facile.
This was a difficult read. I am sorry I read it at bedtime. The ending did make up in part for a night of tossing and turning.
