https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10569.On_Writing
Getting happy.”I can’t tell you how many people I’ve talked to over my lifetime who wanted to write a book.
I wonder why I’m so grumpy.”A novel like  The Grapes of Wrath may fill a new writer with feelings of despair and good old-fashioned jealousy---’I’ll never be able to write anything that good, not if I live to be a thousand’---but such feelings can also serve as a spur, goading the writer to work harder and aim higher.”I can’t tell you how many times I’ve felt that way.
Sure, he churns out pulpy horror stories that are proudly displayed in airport bookstores, but the man knows how to write a good story, and he's probably one of the most well-known, non-dead American authors in the world.
I especially liked the story behind Carrie: King was working as a janitor at a high school, and one night he was cleaning the girls' locker room.
So, in conclusion: even if you aren't a fan of Stephen King's work, he has some very good advice about writing and storytelling, plus some good stories of his own.
It's a rare feeling, but one that happens whenever I'm in the midst of a new favourite book.
I'm reading these amazing scenes, freaking out over fantastic passages, and already looking forward to the second time I'll read them, when they'll be even clearer and start to feel familiar.It's a rare occurrence, it only happens a few times a year, but it happened with On Writing.
It's that moment where you find a new favourite book.If you care about writing at all, if you want to be a writer or are fascinated by the world of writing, I absolutely recommend this gem.
(A) 87% | ExtraordinaryNotes: The first novel-length book I’d ever finished over the span of one day. Done over two sittings, with a nap in between.
High school being the prime time for Stephen King, & all): the guy has useful insight, no shit, because he is not only prolific & uber-successful (he got $400,000 for his first novel “Carrie”!), but because, let’s all admit it, he’s pretty damn good.
!Let me recall some of the stuff I’ve learned (the rest has been absorbed as if by osmosis): 1) rewrite at least two times once the novel has been completed, 2) write & read for at least 5 hours every single day, 3) IMPORTANT: look for an editor (they are eager for new talent, King says), 4) VERY IMPORTANT: begin a serious submitting process (L.
I know it's like saying "puppies are cute," but it bears repeating: everyone who wants to write, whether for a living or not, simply must read this book.On Writing did more for me as a writer than anything, and any success I've found as a storyteller can be traced to my reading it.
Once you know what the story is and get it right - as right as you can, anyway - it belongs to anyone who wants to read it.""...The writer's original perception of a character or characters may be erroneous as the reader's.
Sometimes you have to go on when you don't feel like it, and sometimes you're doing good work when it feels like all you're managing is to shovel shit from a sitting position.""You can approach the act of writing with nervousness, excitement, hopefulness, or even despair - the sense that you can never completely put on the page what's in your mind and heart.
Drink and be filled up.""Reading is the creative center of a writer's life."
If you intend to write as truthfully as you can, your days as a member of polite society are numbered, anyway." Here is are a few excerpts from the book that might inspire you to take my advice - If you want to be a writer, you must do two things above all others: read a lot and write a lot.
Every book you pick up has its own lesson or lessons, and quite often the bad books have more to teach than the good ones.It’s hard for me to believe that people who read very little (or not at all in some cases) should presume to write and expect people to like what they have written, but I know it’s true.
Raised by a single mother in Maine in the 1950s and '60s, King recounts his childhood, his earliest discoveries in fiction, his first forays into writing and publishing, his breakthrough debut novel Carrie some ten years later in 1974 and his near collapse from alcohol and drugs.
The second is that while it is impossible to make a competent writer out of a bad writer, and while it is equally impossible to make a great writer out of a good one, it is possible, with lots of hard work, dedication, and timely help, to make a good writer out of a merely competent one.-- Smith wasn't looking at the road on the afternoon our lives came together because his rottweiler had jumped from the very rear of his van into the back-seat area, where there was an Igloo cooler with some meat stored inside.
It’s easy to teach and test rules, but serious writers need to cultivate an intuitive feel for language in a variety of styles, rather than being bogged down analysing parts of speech.King taught grammar, but gives examples of Tom Swifties that aren't, and keeps talking about the "passive tense", though later correctly says "passive voice".
It’s hard to disagree with, but it’s no help with discerning which words might be needless.King says this section is short because readers probably know enough grammar already, but he then agrees with Strunk and White, that if readers don’t, “It’s too late”.
And Furthermore 3* (annotated example of first and second drafts)This has a very short story that King invites readers to edit.
I haven’t done much writing in the past few years, but reading this book made me want to get back into it. I think Stephen King’s advice will help me be more confident in my writing in the future! Loved this.
Stephen King shares some stories of his past and some writing tips.This was either my fourth or fifth time reading this.
Since Stephen King is the big kahuna, I figure he could teach me a few things.The biography chapters were my favorite the first time around and were still the most fun to read.
As a man who's skated close to the substance abuse abyss a couple times over the years, his cautionary tale seemed very familiar.The writing advice was helpful but this was in no way my favorite book on writing.
There is NO ONE I trust more than Stephen King when it comes to writing
For anyone who’s a Stephen King fan or aspiring writer, this should be a must-have.
I listened to the Audible that’s read by King, and I highly recommend it.
King’s as good of a storyteller vocally as he is on paper.
The breakdown of the book goes like this – the first third is about his background, and what lead him to writing.
The middle third is about the mechanics of writing, and for me it was more informative than any college course.
He discusses “voice,” and themes, and story, and dialogue, and characters, and how he develops and assembles each of these elements.
On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft offers an illuminating look at Stephen King's life, highlighting moments that shaped him as an author and revealing lessons he gained from decades of practice and publication.
King explains his approach to writing and reveals, without indirectly stating, that he is a discovery writer.
On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft is a go-to book for aspiring authors, fans of Stephen King, and any artist feeling creatively stumped that would benefit from a kick in the rear.
It's rare to find an author that adventures into writing about his craft, but Stephen King, with On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft, is not one of them. Great book: good tips (best one: write something you would want to read!) on how to write along with a nice memoir. Recommended.
From King's humble early childhood to the tragic hit-and-run accident that almost killed him about fifteen years ago, 'On Writing' spans the majority of his life and covers the tips and tricks of the trade he picked up while pursuing his calling.
When people ask me about the best books I’ve read in regards to the craft, I always cite ‘On Writing’ as the one that really lit a fire under my ass to pursue writing as a career.And it's not just writers who will mine a shit ton of personal profit out of this book.
كتب ستيفن كنج عشرات الروايات والقصص، يكتب بمعدل عالٍ، وتتحول قصصه إلى أفلام شهيرة حال صدورها، في هذا الكتاب يتحدث كنج عن تجربته، عن بداياته مع الكتابة والظروف الصعبة التي مر بها، وكيف كان يعمل في وظيفتين ليعيل زوجة وطفلين، ثم يعود ليكتب قصصاً قصيرة على أمل أن تنشرها المجلات وتعطيه مبالغ صغيرة مقابلها، هذا قبل أن يكتب روايته الأولى ويحصل على مبلغ ضخم مقابلها، وتتسارع مسيرته الكتابية، لتصبح ثروته الآن قرابة الـ 400 مليون دولار.
ستيفن كنج ليس كاتباً عظيماً، وكتبه لا تناسب الجميع، لم استطع إكمال آخر كتاب حاولت قراءته له، ولكن كتابه هذا عن الكتابة ممتاز، وأتمنى أن يحظى بترجمة محترمة.
King has good advice on ways to improve your writing, but he also has some knockout stories about his life and how they've influenced his novels.
Highly recommended for any writers wanting advice on getting started or improving their craft, and for fans of Stephen King.
It's just fantastic.Favorite Quotes"If you want to be a writer, you must do two things above all others: read a lot and write a lot.
Similarly, I don't read fiction to study the art of fiction, but simply because I like stories.
To hear stories about how one of the world's most popular authors once upon a time struggled just like the rest of us mortals is refreshing.
In fact, at the time I read this I could be called one of King's anti-fans.
My college professors imparted a very low opinion of King's work upon me and that opinion stayed with me right up until recently when I read his stuff for myself.
Why wouldn't it be worth reading the advice of an author who had legions of rabid fans, even if I didn't think much of his writing?
Read On Writing.
As a semi-fan of Stephen King and his writing (I love some of his books, I feel like a lot of the others are dragging), I didn’t really know what to get out of this non-fictional work on writing.
Even though I’ve always said about myself that I’m a reader, not a writer, Stephen King really gave me an urge to sit down and try and write my own book (it should be mentioned, I never actually made it that far, but the thought felt good).
This book made me feel close to Stephen King as a writer, and I loved it for that.
This man, Stephen King, worked hard to make himself into a writer and had sheer determination, from working all hours to pay his college education to writing his first stories in a trailer.
As I ponder all this advice I am also looking to try and start writing a story.He says that 1000 words a day is good and to all importantly have that room to write, cut yourself off from distractions, immerse yourself and close that door to the world and write one word at a time.It was interesting to hear of his time in London at The Brown's Hotel.
I mean, I knew I loved Stephen King and I already knew a lot of the things you learn in this book, but to read it in his own words is even better!The biographical part of the book was truly amazing, this man has come through so much, whether it's alcoholism, the drug addiction or the accident which nearly killed him.
I'm by no means an aspiring writer but found it fascinating to read about the do's and don'ts of writing.
It was one of the best King books I've ever read.
What I liked* he is so passionate about "the craft"* he's pretty encouraging and positive - lots of quotable quotes* he writes in a humble, humorous, accessible style* we learn a lot about his journey as a writer* he gives so much credit to his wife, Tabitha* he uses many examples to illustrate points using his own work* he considers lots of reading to be essential (and there are two great book lists at the end - I just love book lists!)Things I didn't really like* his section on the writer's toolbox was really short, with a lot of emphasis on concepts that seem a bit basic (nix on adverbs, avoid passive voice) for serious writers* he's really specific about certain things (for example, in dialogue only use 'he said' or 'she said'), which I think is limiting * he's really NOT specific about most big things (this is my main disappointment with the book).
This is a good read for someone who is either interested in Stephen King’s life or wants to become a writer and needs either tips to do it better or some motivation to keep going. If you don’t find yourself in these categories, skip this book.I’m the kind of person who would read this guy’s socks label if I could, so yeah, 5 stars.
His wife, it is evident, was a huge supporting influence: not only did she allow him the uninterrupted time to ‘do his stuff’, she also served (and still does) as the primary reader of his second drafts - nobody reads his first drafts, except him.The second section is where he talks about – or maybe lectures on – the art of writing.
He closes this section down with quite a lengthy piece on why it’s important for writers to find an agent and how to set about achieving this.The final part of the book is back to memoir, but is focused entirely on a serious road accident that almost took his life.
I'm not IN love with him, but I love his writing, his stories, his characters, and now, his advice: "Read a lot." (4-6 hours a day, even!) Yessir, Mr. King!
I always knew that King had a kind of "organic" (gosh, how cliche that word is becoming these days) writing style - he'd let the characters be themselves and come to life on their own, and let events develop based on these characters, and just see where the story takes him.
He's a gajillionaire and needs never work another day in his life, but he still writes.
I wish I could give this book more than five stars.
I thought the whole book was going to be like this--a personal history intertwined with the occasional tip about persistence, and that was OK with me.
It certainly makes the book worth reading even for those uninterested in learning the writing trade.
These, he explains, belong in every writer's "toolbox." I loved this analogy and I think that King does an excellent job for the aspiring writer in explaining in a concise, non-bullshitting, "Listen-to-your-Uncle-Stevie" way that writing is complex, fun, and back-breaking hard work.
No se puede negar que Stephen King sabe muy bien de lo que habla, pero yo no me siento cómoda con él. No sé, es como si al leerlo, estuviera viendo un programa en la tv con interferencias; lo siento, no sintonizo bien su pluma. Así que ni caso de esta reseña...
;) Anyway- as most of the GR community knows I am the real life Annie Wilkes a huge fan of Stephen King.
His writing changed my life.
His books changed my mind; my way of thinking.Listen, not everyone knows this but I’m about to out myself.
I picked up On Writing for several reasons, the first being that I’m obsessed with Stephen King.
Another was because it’s listed as part memoir and I was dying to know more about his life.
Thank you, Stephen King for giving me books that make life seem like it isn’t ALL bad.
