https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3978964-the-d-arblay-mystery
This is one of the better Dr. Thorndyke mysteries. Solid and intricate plot, suspense, likable characters, and the thorough detective work of Dr. Thorndyke all make this a mystery worth reading.
I like these early 20c novels as I'm there with the my port and a pipe (I don't smoke really.) listening to the tale narrated by Dr Gray of an event some 20yrs previously.
He was a newly qualified doctor and taking a trip into the country, lots of walking in this book, when he discovers a body in a pond.
As so often in a Thorndyke novel there is a young woman in distress and murder in the air.
Gray enlists Thorndyke's help to uncover a mystery of murder, theft and deception.Enjoyable although Thondyke's final account is most intricate and takes some unravelling to understand how the conclusion was reached.
A few holes in the story (like, why was no one more worried when their houses were broken into?!), but overall another excellent addition to the Dr Thorndyke series.
Would you mind telling us exactly what happened?" pleads one of the main characters at the very end of this mystery, after Thorndyke has already explained it once in devastating detail.
Of course you want to know what happened too, and this time it's clear[er].
Well, shorter.All those confusing details aside, as far as I could tell these 2 really evil, immoral or amoral bad guys are Americans.
While these evil doers pass for each other alive and as corpses, it's hard to see as they went unnoticed as Americans [at least when they were alive!], but they seem to have.
I think that you either like the intricate detail of a Thorndyke story or you don't. I do. Normally written in the first person by more than one narrator and usually finished by Jervis, Thorndyke's Watsonesque sidekick these stories are written in quite old fashioned English even by standard of the period. The fact that they are doctors and barristers makes them that much more different from the other sleuths of the time. Thoroughly enjoyable.
Unlike the last one, this one is back to the clueless protagonist needing Thorndyke to explain everything at the end. However, it was much more involving and much more complicated, so the ending explanation probably would have been needed either way! I rather enjoyed this one, it was like reading "The Red Thumb Mark" again. It was a totally new concept to me and got me to remember why I appreciated reading Freeman's mysteries in the first place.
Excellent stuff for the Thorndyke fan. A good plot, though of course full of the usual coincidences, plenty of Thorndyke and more Polton than I think in any other of his novels, thoroughly entertaining.
