https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112675.Knocked_Out_by_My_Nunga_Nungas
Green (Georgia is a straight up bully and it's horrible how she talks about this poor girl), Jas (as a kid, when I thought Georgia was the most hilarious person on the planet, I remember thinking Jas was kind of annoying as well.
now I realize she's actually a lovely caring friend and Georgia is just horrible to her), Miss Stamp (all this part time lesbian stuff is so awful) and her parents (again, when I was younger I remember thinking 'yeah!
As Billy Shakespeare said, "To lippy or not to lippy; that is the question."2:00 pmResults of lippy/snogging poll:Jas only wears lip gloss, which she says gets absorbed in the general snogosity.
She also says that by the end of the night he is usually covered in lippy, but he doesn't mind and wipes it off with his T-shirt.Good Lord.We must remember, however, that he is not English.The rest of the gang seemed pretty well to go along with the lip gloss absorbed into the general snogosity theory.So lip gloss it is.* * *9:30 pmJools has been looking at Rollo for about a million centuries and moaning and droning on about him.
They're written as the diary of a British girl named Georgia, and she covers all the drama, hilarity, embarassment, etc., of the high school years, only with a delightful Englishness.
It was hard for me to believe that Georgia's voice was actually written by an adult.
Here's an excerpt, the opening of the first book:"Dad had Uncle Eddie round, so naturally they had to come and see what I was up to.
If Uncle Eddie (who is bald as a coot) says to me one more time, 'Should Bald Heads be Buttered?' I may kill myself.
Sex God or A Laugh? Jelloid knickers or strange dancing?Dave The Laugh
I personally think the series started to lack.It has started to become a bit repetitive in topics for Georgia to think of and I now it's more boy focused I'm a little less interested. In the first two boys weren't the biggest topic. I have the fourth so I may finish that just to add to my read shelf but I'm unsure at the moment.
If you're looking for a high school "guys and drama" series, read E.
Lockhart's Ruby Oliver books (start with 
The Boyfriend List: 15 Guys, 11 Shrink Appointments, 4 Ceramic Frogs and Me, Ruby Oliver
I am definitely team Dave the L but Aaron as Robbie's image floats up y mind and i can't deciiiide! my red bottom is speechless as well.Altho Georgia is quit awful to loads of people i can't help but love her warts and all♥on to the next!
Aw, Dave the Laugh is the cutest.
Buddy read with the Jealous and the Knicker. (view spoiler)[ Please don't kill me. (hide spoiler)] The nunga-nunga questionnaire  Welcome, Earth creatures (a.k.a. not-girlfriends of a Sex God popstar)!!! While our resident well of wisdomosity can't be bothered spending her precious time on something as naff as tests, this is your time to prove how (not) worthy you are of an Ace Gang honorary membership.Answer away!7. Your parents planned a family trip to Scotland. You don't want to go, since you
h. You make a graphic song about the bloke your Mutti sadly is living with and how he lost his trouser snake supplements because of a nighttime shaving accident, which you, obviously, didn't have anything to do with.6.
You're friends again after she admits you're her number one girl-love.k. You run back to Cottage Crap, snuggle down in your holiday bed and spend some time on your holiday project (fantasy snogging).
If you end up with jibberish, you're not ready for the hilariosity of this universe and are not allowed to walk la marche avec mystery with the Jealous Knickers.
Oh no no no Georgia, don't you dare.
This isn't as funny or as much fun as the previous two books.
Maybe I've overdosed on Georgia?
Maybe three in one day was too much (or two much, hahaha).
Sven was still funny and the girls were still ridiculous but the humour just wasn't as there, you know?
(view spoiler)[And to be honest, I'd really rather see her break up with Robbie and get back with Dave the Laugh.
He's so cute and funny and I'd kill to have a guy like that give me the time of day, or night, or even the afternoon.
(hide spoiler)]
Second Booktubathon book completed!Listened to the audiobook for this all in one sitting and it had me laughing just as hard as it did 10 years ago
While caring for a very sick relative (and dealing with all the stress that goes along with such a task), I wanted something fun and silly and light-hearted to read to leaven the seriousness of my ongoing work.
The book, like all the books in the series, I presume, follows either the journal or the internal monologue (not quite sure which) of English teen Georgia Nicholson.
I really had no idea, and the timestamps quickly became a tired gimmick that I just skipped over in favor of reading the text.All in all, it was a fun book and it did the job I needed it to do.
I'm going a little fast with these books, but its because no matter how kind of stupid they, I cannot put them down.
Oh, please, Georgia, leave the poor Dave the Laugh away laughing on a fast camel and keep living your life with SG, because thats what you wanted.“Dad leapt over the garden wall instead of going through the gate.
These books make me dumb, but then again laughing away on a fast camel in a nippy noodles day and dancing in my nuddy pants!
The humor in these books is unparalleled.
Do not read in public unless you want to be laughing like a loon for all to see.
Georgia is so endearingly oblivious to her self-centered, superficial, player ways.
(Oh, that clown nose!)However, am I the only one who thinks these books would work better if Georgia were a bit older than 14?
Call me a Puritan, but if my future teenager was a snogging champion like Georgia at 14, I might have a bit of a nervy spaz.
Yes, the main character is shallow and vain and quite self-absorbed, but most teenage girls are to a certain extent, right?
I love that despite these things, Georgia remains a lovable character, and we get to see the chinks in her armour, as it were.
She really does love her parents, even though most of the time they annoy her half to death and do things she finds appalling.
She makes mistakes that she regrets.
And what makes these books so fun is that they are almost like the diary of the class clown...how many books have you read like that?
Also in the movie I love Georgia and Jas's friendship whereas in the books I feel so sorry for Jas 99.5% of the time.Another thing I can't wrap my head around is that I don't understand how Robbie and Georgia are dating when they barely spend time together????
How did Robbie get feelings for Gee when there hasn't been times and moments to develop some?!
At least there the both of them spend time together and get the opportunity to develop some feelings.
EITHER WAY, I do enjoy these books even though Georgia is a rude cunt and the vocabulary used is cringe as hell.
The books in this hilarious series (American titles):Angus, Thongs, and Full-Frontal SnoggingOn the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex-GodKnocked Out by My Nunga NungasDancing in My Nuddy PantsAway Laughing on a Fast CamelThen He Ate My Boy EntrancersStartled by His Furry ShortsLove is a Many Trousered Thing?
(It's the series that never ends!)Georgia Nicolson is a self-absorbed, British teenager who keeps a diary detailing her life in all its glorious angst(think Bridget Jones for teens).
Georgia thinks about boys constantly and treats them kind of like Lays potato chips (you can't kiss just one).
Oh my goodness, Georgia is hilarious!
I think the best part of this is her ridiculous thoughts and sentences.
And the fact that she is SO selfish that I don't think her friend Jas (who she talks to a lot) ever gets a full sentence in!
In the ever mind changing pace of a teenager, while Georgia is so happy to be SG's girlfriend (swoon, and let us think about the snogging) she also may possibly like Dave the Laugh again, even though she dumped him and he was just a Red Herring.
There are books that are meant to inspire you and to open your mind to new ideas.
The characters always learn some incredibly important life lesson and become a better person by the end of the story.
This is not one of those books.
Georgia is incredibly shallow and vain and she stays that way for the entire book (and series for that matter).
And that is fine by me.
She is 15 and, while not a great role model, a pretty accurate representation of a 15 year old girl.
Well at least 15 year olds that I knew when I was 15.
I love Georgia Nicolson's voice so much. This series is so entertaining and light hearted. Definitely a good read for this busy month as it is a quick and easy read!
Funny and dramtic insight to the life of a teenage girl :') love louise rennisons books !!!
still hilarious, but Georgia is starting to get on my nerves.
Dave the laugh ftw
;) I completely forgot that it came from this these books, until I picked this one up.
For my senior year morality class, we were required to tote baby dolls 24/7 and keep a journal, reflecting on the experience.
All of my peers took it so seriously and I remember getting yelled at by my peers and my theology teacher for laying my doll on my school bag during class.
I think he’s been rolling in fox poo again.
He thinks it’s like a sort of really attractive aftershave.” —The Angus sections are so wonderfully visual.
Even the subplot - Angus' courting of the neighbors' cat is so out of control Georgia's dad threatens to have him spayed - is not funny.In Knocked Out, Georgia, having recently hooked up with an older Sex God, is abducted by her parents on a family vacation to Scotland, which she refers to as Och Aye land and insults with her usual brand of dramatic sarcasm.
Upon her return, she cheats on her new boyfriend by snogging the guy she used as bait to make the first boyfriend jealous, and debates her decision to date a hot but unavailable older guy versus a funny available boy who obviously likes her IN SPITE of the fact she blatantly used him in the last book.
Honestly, nothing much happens in this book but I've come to enjoy Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, not really for the plot, but...well...for the lols!Mandatory harassment of Jas;“I hate Jas. I slammed the phone down.
I would rather eat one of Libby's nighttime nappies than talk to Jas again.
4:22 p.m. Phoned Jas.”Favourite one-liner in the book;“Jesus would never snog his mate's boyfriend.”Best 'She's mad' moment;“Just a minute-you haven't said you are sorry yet." "I have.
I just told you I had to come and apologize." "I know, but you haven't." I said patiently, "Well, why am I here then?
A little bit funny, but not hugely so. Not as funny as the previous two in my opinion.
We are served a grand helping of Sexgoderosity with snogfests on the side!Georgia finds herself in a state of confusiosity and red-bottomosity - torn between Robbie the Sex God and Dave the Laugh!
Who would've thought the Red Herring from Operation Elastic Band would backfire!
I found myself laughing out loud so many times!
I love Georgia's language and sense of humour (though most of the time it's lost on her family and friends but hey, I appreciate it :)) These books are such a lighthearted read (and should not be taken too seriously)!
I did not like this book because it is about a teenage girls diary that does not have a hook to keep me interested in reading more.
After reading 15 pages, I could not get interested in the book.
There are 10 pages of definitions to made-up words used by the main character, Georgia who is a teenage in England writing in her diary.
Why would I want to look up made-up words to understand what is going on in the diary?
It is a banned book because it is crud in the ways Georgia writes in her diary about here daily life.
Is it just me or is Gee getting ruder? She’s always been anti-authority and a bit of an idiot. But in a lovable way. Now…not so much. It’s tough to want nice things, like Dave the Laugh, for such an insolent little twit. And she’s (secretly) running around with Robbie, who is much older than her. Come to think on it, the only guys who are remotely interested in her are years her senior. Hm. Anyway. Liked the jaunt to Scotland. Gingers! The series is still a laugh if not taken seriously. At all.
