https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9915.Less_Than_Zero
I will say that I think this is the perfect cocaine novel because it so perfectly epitomizes the soul-sucking hollowness and numb angst at the core of this kind of lifestyle and drug use (or so I've heard).The reason why I thought this was so good, though, and what I'm surprised no one else on here seems to have felt, was that while in one way this was such a total period piece specifically criticizing the materialistic hedonism of the eighties or whatever, to me it transcended that.
some books are like the face of Justin Long: this is a highly punchable face. don't you just want to punch that smug look right off of his corny face? it is a face born for being stomped into the ground. ugh, i hate justin long. although i loved him in the last few seconds of Jeepers Creepers, he was perfect for the role of Gutted Horror Victim.i also hate Less Than Zero. i blame this book for all of the ennui-laden, masturbatory nonsense that was foisted upon the world in the 80s. shouldn't Bre
some books are like the face of Justin Long:
this is a highly punchable face.
don't you just want to punch that smug look right off of his corny face?
it is a face born for being stomped into the ground.
ugh, i hate justin long.
i blame this book for all of the ennui-laden, masturbatory nonsense that was foisted upon the world in the 80s.
shouldn't Bret Easton Ellis be in jail for this crime?
the worst crime of this gag-worthy book is that Ellis appears to take his characters' issues to be genuinely weighty.
I can't remember if Ellis eventually answered the question but I do know he went off on how much he loved Monsters vs.
Having never read a word by the man, I went home that day liking him.Just the other day, over a year after the events related above, I went back to the offices of the aforementioned major national arts publication to interview for a copy editor position.
Unloved rich kids in 80s L.A. desperately try to feel something. It's depressing and disheartening, but worth it if you can stomach the apathy and hedonism. It's pretty awful at times (the events of the book).
Ugh.Actually, my view of this book was kind of distorted by this man I used to work with at this coffee shop.He was a huge fan if this author.
I would still hit that.)P.P.S. You know what, Im not really sure I even read this book, or if I just think I did.
Uncertain that there is anything else to do he goes on a psychedelic romp and engages in all sorts of debaucheries from snorting cocaine by the minute, gender indifferent acts of sexual deprivation, not to mention other sort of drugs, liquor, and all the twisted novelties Hollywood has to offer, moving from party to party in search for some unreachable form of satisfaction.
He goes through all this in a kind of painful stupor trying to feel something, anything while balancing his rocky relationship with his girlfriend Blair, and trying to make sense of his best friend Julian.
Sure, the things they do (random sex, drug abuse, etc) make great fodder for fiction, but if there's no counterweight of compassion, what do I care if they fuck up their lives?I get it: they're emotionally vacant and aimless because of the environment they grew up in, and that is reflected by the deadpan delivery of the writing.
I get the point, over and over again.
And then he goes ahead and makes the point again.
But I'm not interested in emotionally vacant writing.
This one-trick pony only scores points for X and Elvis Costello references.

The characters' actions, more specifically their lack of action, says so much for the state of the times in this book, for LA, for American culture, all of which I find maybe even more relevant today.
The fact that people can walk away from this book thinking it is only about drugs, that they "did not get it", or they thought it pointless, just makes me sad.
Three scenes really shocked me and that is all I will say about that since I did not see them coming at all.Some of the most disturbing parts of this book are simple comments made by Clay's family.
Another empty novel about emptiness, oh joy! I read this because friends were always like, “You’ve never read Bret Easton Ellis? Whaaaaat?” But now I have and we never have to talk about it again. Yay.
It's satire; that's totally different.I spent tonight arguing about Ellis with some very smart contrarians, and here's what they said: Ellis has captured the soulless Me First Generation, and their failure to connect with life, in a really effective way.
I actually know these people - not Ellis' caricatures of them, but the real people - and I see what he's describing.The only problem is here's the first sentence of this book: "People are afraid to merge on freeways in Los Angeles." This is a metaphor, I happen to know because I was an English major, and it's fucking stupid.
Like Wallace, Ellis is concerned with connection: he wants us to engage with life.
Ooo, let’s have sex again and do MORE drugs!” Repeat for 200 pages and you’ve got Bret Easton Ellis’ debut novel Less Than Zero!Ellis can write really well so it’s a shame he doesn’t really have anything to say besides: rich LA brats are aimless, lost youth, their parents are drugged-out zombies, and LA culture is surface-level garbage and miserable.
It might’ve worked on ‘80s/early ‘90s audiences but Ellis’ shock tactics read today as really lame and try-hard, like a sad old edgelord’s scribblings.
This is the sort of book you'd read and say, 'I'd have loved it if I'd read it in my twenties', if you read it in your forties.Talking about the shock factor, it isn't really as shocking as it was in 1980s.
Nothing seems shocking in 2018, even American Psycho wouldn't have been much of a shocker if it was published recently.
American Psycho isn't all about that anyway.
At the same time I can imagine what it's like for someone not in their twenties, in 1980's, apparently shocked by this.Whatever BEE writes about, he makes sure he gives you the whole picture of the era.
Ο Ellis χρησιμοποιεί αυτοβιογραφικά στοιχεία και γράφει ένα από τα πιο σκληρά και, ενδεχομένως, σοκαριστικά μυθιστορήματα για την γενιά των '80ς αποδομώντας την κουλτούρα των 'γιάπις', το 'Αμερικάνικο Όνειρο', αλλά και το μόττο 'Πατρίς, Θρησκεία, Οικογένεια', το οποίο εξέφραζε ένα μεγάλο μέρος της δεκαετίας. Όλοι οι ήρωες είναι δέσμιοι του αχαλίνωτου clubbing, του ευκαιριακού σεξ, της 'εύκοληςχρήσης ναρκωτικών, αλλά καί της διαστροφής και της κραιπάλης σε όλα τα επίπεδα. Πολλοί αναγνώστες θα ανα
Ο Ellis χρησιμοποιεί αυτοβιογραφικά στοιχεία και γράφει ένα από τα πιο σκληρά και, ενδεχομένως, σοκαριστικά μυθιστορήματα για την γενιά των '80ς αποδομώντας την κουλτούρα των 'γιάπις', το 'Αμερικάνικο Όνειρο', αλλά και το μόττο 'Πατρίς, Θρησκεία, Οικογένεια', το οποίο εξέφραζε ένα μεγάλο μέρος της δεκαετίας.
Πολλοί αναγνώστες θα αναρωτηθούν αν ο Έλλις είναι ο αντίστοιχος 'Φράνσις Σκοτ Φιτστζέραλντ' της δεκαετίας του '80, γιατί, συγκρίνοντας τη δεκαετία του '20 με τη δεκαετία του '80, η αλήθεια είναι ότι προκύπτουν κάποιες ομοιότητες, όσον αφορά τις υπερβολές στη διασκέδαση και τις καταχρήσεις με πάντα έκδηλη την εξωστρέφεια στις κοινωνικές σχέσεις, αλλά και την εκκεντρικότητα.
Less Than Zero is an affecting ridealong in a car full of coke-addled rich kids.
The ending is properly shocking.
I was, as was intended, thoroughly disgusted, as I'm sure you will be too.
I didn't like a single character.
The book has all the appeal of a trainwreck that causes a chemical spill at your local kindergarten.
You don't read this book for fun.
You read it to justify your hatred of humanity and all things wealthy.
In summation: The stars are for the writing and the fact that the book accomplishes what it sets out to do.
Okay, so I was willing to accept this book as a criticism of the emptiness of modern culture.
It was like a Wes Anderson movie: I can only take so much "art" centered around the neuroses of wealthy assholes.
I appreciated the bit about how when the old lady fell down or whatever and all these people outside La Scala attended to her and an ambulance came and nobody inside the restaurant gave it any notice.
There were a few things I liked here but mostly my response is a mixture or boredom and "barf!"
Bret Easton Ellis is listed on my author page as of my four biggest influences as a writer, the othe
This book probably deserved more than three stars.
I HATE this book.
It's so true and I am massively depressed after reading it.
The best thing I can say is that this book serves as a glorious example of how not to be.
I would not recommend this to anyone who is already depressed.
I feel like a really good person now, because I'm nothing like these creeps, which is all you can hope for in life.
If Easton Ellis was writing this story today, which his website says he is working on a sequel!?!
Look at any comment list on mySpace.com, it would read exactly like any conversation in Less than Zero!
Even the title comes from an Elvis Costello lyric where he also sings, "Let's talk about the future, now we've put the past away."Like Sarah mentioned at the book club, Easton Ellis doesn't blatantly show Clay making the last step into (I guess) "empathetic-human-mode." But somehow I would like to think that Clay has moved on, after he left.
So matter-of-factly, he didn't disappear.I absolutely adored this book because it made me think, and that is possibly the best reason to like a book.
Drugs, sex, more drugs, sex, sex, drugs. Repeat. Drive around some. Go to parties. FOR THE LOVE OF GOD make it stop.
They both kinda make my head want to explode.Anyway, 'Less than Zero' is sterile and precise in both language and style, but like David Lynch movies (I'm thinking of Blue Velvet and Fire Walk with Me) underneath those well-trimmed nails is the flesh and stink of corruption.
The book had a lot of potential, but when I compare it with other early, debut novels filled with elements of angst and school like The Catcher in the Rye, This Side of Paradise, or Other Voices, Other Rooms, it just seems flat and when not flat indulgent and uneven.
The simple fact is that the rarified world of nihilistic anxiety that Clay occupies is much more widespread in our day and age (come on, who doesn't have HBO, a DVD player and ample access to booze and drugs in 2013?) than it was in 1985, even if the wealth that powers it remains as exclusive as it ever did.Maybe that means that Bret Easton Ellis, at only 21 years old, basically got it right the first time around and has only become more right about the way we live in the decades since.
Less Than Zero describes the lives of wealthy, jaded teenagers in LA during the 80’s, the age of greed and consumerism (cue Gordon Gekko’s famous speech in 1987’s Wall Street).All characters walk around in a nihilistic, monochromatic world: continually smoking, blowing coke up their nose, taking prescription medicine and having loads and loads of sex.
It’s as shocking to us as it is to Clay.Less Than Zero is not as good as Easton’s other more famous 80’s novel on consumerism, American Psycho, which counterbalances the shallow world of Patrick Bateman’s existence with psychotic sprees of malevolent violence.
Mr. Ellis was my age when this book was published, so I thought I’d get great insight on troubled young adults against the back drop of Los Angeles, but instead I got a bunch of obnoxious teenagers with drug problems.
And when Mr. Ellis finally did decide to start a new sentence, it was always with “And.” And and and.Also, there were so many characters in the book.
I thought time would change you, make you realize the error of your ways!) The narrator Another issue I had with this book was our main character, Clay.
My random musings on  Less Than Zero by Bret Easton Ellis.I'll start off this review by informing anyone who may read, or listen, that this book is a terrible idea for a vacation book.
A complete train wreck, he is.Now normally I would love this dark, twisted expose on human thoughtlessness but it was hard to empathise with Clay while in Mexico.
It's hard to care about a group of rich, drug-numbed teenagers who think they are entitled to everything.....
Now I know what Ellis is getting at with this novel, the hallowness, the nothingness but I just don't care.
I feel like I've been writing a lot of negative reviews lately.
I wish it weren't so but apparently I need to be more discerning in my choices.
I'm supposed to hate Clay and everyone else for wanking off 24/7, for spending all their time coked out and fucking each other mindlessly.
I'm supposed to be critical of their wanton lifestyle and soulless existence.
I'm supposed to actively want to life a life unlike theirs.That's all true.
That feels pretty softcore.
McInerney's Bright Lights Big City pretty much has the same goals and does it in a way that's a lot more interesting, relevant, and human.
There are some books that after you finish, you sit there holding it, the last page, the last word staring back at you, and you just kind of zone out and ponder everything that's happened since you picked it up; everything that happened in the story, everything that happened in real life.
Before I drove back from my folks today, back to hit the road again, I was watching the news.
On the news crawl at the bottom of the screen a snippet kept passing that said 31 people had died in a blast in Syria.
And all those 31 lives merited was an insignificant mention in a news crawl.
It races along full of boring details and you feel like sticking pins in your eyes and shouting at the characters but then it drops in anvil heavy, horrific statements so subtly it just merges into the text.
A little book that makes lots of big points about lots of everyday things.-----------------------------------------------------------Updated - Full Review as on Citizen's Eye WebsiteI read Less Than Zero in one night, about four and a half hours and for most of it I was bored senseless.
Disappear here... It’s hard to imagine a better published first novel than Bret Easton Ellis’ Less Than Zero, published in 1985, when the writer was just 21. The tender age didn’t seem to bother Ellis as he effortlessly deconstructs the youth of his generation in Los Angeles. It’s cold, nihilistic, raw and driven by emotionless desires. It’s this detachedness that gives power to Bret Easton Ellis’ minimalist prose.Tightly controlled, the novel follows the narrator, Clay, an eighteen year old re
It’s hard to imagine a better published first novel than Bret Easton Ellis’ Less Than Zero, published in 1985, when the writer was just 21.
It’s this detachedness that gives power to Bret Easton Ellis’ minimalist prose.Tightly controlled, the novel follows the narrator, Clay, an eighteen year old returning to L.A. for Christmas and his drug-fuelled lifestyle and boring existence.
Less Than Zero depicts a young generation that is as true today as it was when released in the eighties.
Less Than Zero is a beautifully controlled and impressive first novel from a brilliant observer and satirist of the Western world.* — Cognitive dissonance perhaps?
It deals with youths whose minds are eroded by death of affection, amorality and a devastating spiritual apathy: eighteen-year old kids driving Porsches and vegetating on poolsides, relentlessly destroyed in their bodies and souls by the adults surrounding them - absent fathers, immature mothers, middle-aged guys lusting for boys the age of their sons...- exploited and exploiting each other under the palm trees of Los Angeles.Clay, the narrator, is vaguely conscious of the void in which they all are floating.
After all, as Clay's so-called girlfriend points out, "It's hard to feel sorry for someone who doesn't care".No catharsis is to be expected.
