https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22465597-vanishing-girls
I appreciate that this is something personal to me and many people probably understand the relationship between someone knowing a nickname and the sensation of a doctor probing your mouth, but it just reads so clumsy and awkward to me.
I'm guessing that she means the knowledge of the nickname feels intrusive, like a doctor's fingers also would, but it still doesn't seem to fit.
I know picking apart the language makes it seem like I'm fussing over nothing, but these comparisons/similes happen often and are so odd that I find myself being pulled out of the story and thinking "huh?"Still, Oliver draws you into the relationship between the two sisters - Nick and Dara - and their lives.

After reading the book, I was a bit furious…Or maybe really, really furious...because to appreciate the story, you would have to go back to everything from the beginning and d@^^#!
In fact, that it kept me replaying the scenes in my head is a big indicator that it HAD a huge impact on me and it may have a greater impact on you too.
I highly recommend this to beginning readers of YA contemporary thriller/mystery and to everyone who hasn't read any Lauren Oliver book yet.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “The lying is the hardest part.” I should’ve paid attention to who gave this one kudos. E. Lockhart of We Were Liars fame? Yeah, that could have been a flashing neon sign that I would find Vanishing Girls to be . . .  Ha! Just kidding. My reaction was more like this . . .  According to the blurb Vanishing Girls was supposed to be the story of two teenaged sisters (one of which goes missing on her birthday), another missing young girl
I know there’s more to the “disappearance” than what happens at the birthday dinner, but I am not a dickhole so I’m not going to spoil it for everyone else.)To sum it up, once the twist was finally revealed, I was past the point of .
I’m giving Vanishing Girls 2 Stars because it wasn’t horrible enough to only get 1.
I was also ever so grateful there was no instalove to crap up the story further.I’m going to continue reading Lauren Oliver’s stuff because I think she is almost ready to go there and give me the dark, angry, terrifying teenagers I like to read about.
Writing/Style: 5 stars“Twist” Ending: 1 starThis Sea Salt and Caramel Corn Candle pairs well with this bookOkay, for about 80% of the book, Lauren Oliver had me.
Ditto with the topless underage supah sekret photo website for pedophiles.The thing is that Oliver has the bones of something really well-written and entertaining but it just seemed like she ran out of steam and decided to throw some other stuff into the mix because she didn’t know what to do with the characters.
(view spoiler)[The “twist” is that Nick is hallucinating Dara for most of the book, because Dara’s been dead for months!I hate when authors pull a cop-out like this.
DNF @22%Let me start by saying: THE BOOK WAS GOOD.
Vanishing girls by Lauren oliver is an interesting YA Mystery i adored the whole concept of the story, The diary and the journal articles were a bit confusing but the writting was good, what i didn't like were the characters!
Dara and Nick, i HATED these girls.
Nick is the "Good girl" has friends, pretty but not as pretty as her sister and kind of prude.
I was not sure what to expect. Unfortunately, I lost interest just before it started to be really interesting. The ending was amazing - except for the last chapter. I just did not see the twist coming.
Review also posted at Young Adult Hollywood.Vanishing Girls is without a doubt my favorite Lauren Oliver book so far.In this novel, follow the story of sisters, Dara and Nick.
After, the disappearance of a nine-year-old girl, Dara vanished.
I’ve read a handful of stories before that have the same structure, but that is necessarily not a bad thing.
There are a lot of things I haven’t anticipated.Vanishing Girls is a character driven book.
And Oliver skillfully created the unmistakable tension between the sisters and their parents.Prepare your tissues everyone, because this book will prompt you to reevaluate your life choices.Vanishing Girls is life jarring, profound and a poignant read.
See more reviews at YA Midnight ReadsI’ve said it before and I’ll say it again – I have a very rocky relationship with Oliver’s books. While she caught my heart with Before I Fall, Panic and the later books in her Delirium trilogy did not have me impressed. So I went into Vanishing Girls very much cautiously, and I ended up getting exactly what I was hoping for. Sometimes day and night reverse. Sometimes up goes down and down goes up, and love turns into hate, and things you counted on get washe
While the central story-line is about the love between two siblings and how it slowly twisted into jealousy and loathing, there's also a nine-year old girl who goes missing in the midst of it all, and soon you discover that these two story-lines have more in common than meets the eye.Vanishing Girls comes to life at Oliver's writing.
As the first half of this book is considerably slower than the second half, the change in pacing for the second half really threw me off, and consequently made the ending not give the impact that it was hoping to bring.Beautiful writing, a gripping tale and a thrilling sisterly dynamic, Vanishing Girls is certainly my favourite book by Lauren Oliver.
"Don't ask me how I know. I just do. If you don't understand that, I guess you've never had a sister." I have a sister. She's six years younger than me, more popular, cleverer and a far better person than I'll ever be, no lie. We have stupid inside jokes. She calls my boyfriends douches, and I extend her the same favor because a) they are, and b) they don't deserve my sweet baby sis. Last week, she bought me a caramel latte for no reason except she knew my deep abiding love for anything caramel
Last week, she bought me a caramel latte for no reason except she knew my deep abiding love for anything caramel.And I love her something fierce, did I mention that?Nick and Dara are sisters the way Sam and Dean from Supernatural are brothers.
At least Sam and Dean enjoy each other's company.
Dara and Nick Time is like walking on broken glass, even before the car accident.
Plus, We Were Liars beat you to the punch.I zoomed through Vanishing Girls in two days to find out what happens next and was sorely let down.
THIS BOOK MADE ME CRY. GOSH DARN IT, ONION-CUTTING NINJAS! You're probably wondering, "Whoa, is this actually a contemporary drama or something?" Well, it's not, my dear friends - it's a psychological suspense thriller about two sisters who drifted apart after a car accident; a story of regret, bitterness, and ultimately, forgiveness. This is an atmospheric story about how a sister tries to make amends, but ultimately finds herself in a chaotic situation that would change their life forever. It
As someone who never had a sister (I have three annoying, mildly adorable brothers), I never really thought I could relate to Nick and Dara's story.
Of course we all love our brothers and sisters, but there will always be times when we will have ill thoughts about them because of what they said or what they did, times when we will hold grudges because of the fact that it had to be someone of the same blood and flesh who would have the gall to hurt and take something important from you.
Es una novela con un ritmo increíble, que transmite muchísimo y que te dejará boquiabierto con su final.Ha sido una novela que me ha encantado, que supera a varias obras que ya he leído de la autora y que me ha dejado con muy buen sabor de boca.
Lauren Oliver es única y propia y me encanta la manera que tiene de acercarnos sus historias.Dara & Nick engancha muchísimo también.
Dara & Nick hace un cambio de 360º al final totalmente inesperado y que cierra la novela muy bien.
Tiene un ritmo frenético, sus personajes están muy bien trabjados y la trama es brillante.
The full review is now live on 100% Rock! How could my Dara, Little Egg, Nosebutton, who used to wrap her arms around my shoulders and stand on my toes so we could pretend to be one person as we staggered around the living room, have turned into someone who used the word fuckable, someone I barely knew, someone I feared, even? It's a strange relationship the one between sisters. You're the best of friends your entire lives, until suddenly you're not. One of you gets left behind, one day, whilst
The full review is now live on 100% Rock!
You're the best of friends your entire lives, until suddenly you're not.
It sounds like a horror story, but it's true: one day, your sister will grow up, that close relationship will stretch and snap until you're only sisters but maybe not really friends.
After all, who knows you best?Nick and Dara were like that: two sides of the same coin, best friends, always at each other's side...
The photographs annoyed me (I'm not a big fan of including pictures of the characters in books because I like imagining them myself without the author being like Here!
This is what this character looks like!!!), but all of the other elements definitely helped enrich the story and develop the plot.- I did really like Lauren Oliver's writing style.
I think in the first half of the book I just didn't feel invested enough in the story to actively guess what was going to happen.
Poignant, touching and terribly messed up. Oliver’s got me as a fan.   Most of y’all know of my shaky relationship with Oliver’s books. Generally, it’s a hit or miss for me. And yet I always crawl back, because when your writing is as beautiful as hers, you’ll always have my attention. You could say I was apprehensive upon diving into Vanishing Girls. On one hand, it has this deliciously dark premise promising twists and turns (and it's blurbed smashingly, if I may say so). On the other hand ,
It’s the one word that encapsulates Vanishing Girls.
It’s a haunting story of love—past, present, would-be loves.
At it’s core, we get the twisted tale of two sisters.
But I guess Vanishing Girls still maintains it’s ability to be catastrophically astounding because we live in a world that now preaches a little less of the romanticism, a little more of the pragmaticsm.
Oliver uses the familiar, all the things that would bring us comfort, to craft an unnerving tale.
There is no doubt that Vanishing Girls is my favourite Oliver book.
But it's a sister's tale and thus full of love, no matter how dysfunctional.
“I guess that's the really nice thing about disappearing: the part where people look for you and beg you to come home.”  DNF at %42 I love Lauren Oliver and her writing however, this book made me really uncomfortable and irritated. I just can't continiue reading this. I wonder why Author choose to write something like this. I still can't wait to pick up her next book but this one just wasn't for me...
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “The truth is this: it doesn’t take any skill to almost-die, or to almost-live either.” This was an intriguing story about two sisters separated by a dangerous accident, and their relationship before and after it happened. “Dara is bored to tears alone one Saturday night.Dara is hopelessly scarred for life.” I really liked Dara and Nick, and it was so sad the way they were
“Dara is bored to tears alone one Saturday night.Dara is hopelessly scarred for life.”
I really liked Dara and Nick, and it was so sad the way they were no longer talking after the accident.
The storyline in this was really good, with Nick and Dara not talking, an obvious animosity between them, a missing little girl, and an element of mystery over what happened between the girls to cause them to fall out so spectacularly.
There was a little bit of romance, but not a lot, and this also played into the animosity between the girls, as it seemed like there might have been a bit of a love triangle going on between the girls and the boy next door.
Her childhood best friend also seems to be avoiding her and even when they are forced to work together, in the town's small theme park, do they not seem to be able to confront the growing distance between them.I found this an initially interesting contemporary read but nothing especially gripped me, during this first portion of the book.
Open-mouthed awe can only begin to cover how I felt when the mystery dogging this plot was revealed.I found this final twist one that made any slow moments completely worth it, as it had lulled me into a state of presumed knowledge about both the course of recounted events and the steady narrative structure.
Two sisters, Nicola (Nick) and Dara, were once best friends.
It wasn't hard to follow the story, but it didn't flow well.The "then" part of the story deals with the sisters crumbling relationship, which has to do with a boy.
Nick's best friend is a guy, and Dara goes after him.
The "now" part continues to deal with the sister's relationship, but also involves a young missing girl.
When Dara goes missing too, Nick believes it has something to do with the other missing girl.A dark story with a twisty ending.
Whatever." These people are being silly, and they need to look at this book again.
Solidly four stars!AND THEN THE ENDING HAPPENED.All I have done today is pore over the last 75 pages of this book, then flip back through the earlier pages, checking chapter headings and putting the timeline together in my mind, looking for clues, conversations, and hints.
Just trust me: the twist works, the hints are there, and it is VERY well done.
This is a book that begs a second reading, and it is my new favorite and my best.Five stars.
RTC. I don't know what to make of this book.
Another winner from Lauren Oliver. Dark, suspenseful, and insanely gripping.
Granted, Dara and Nick's subsequent story could've had more impact for me personally if it didn't feel like there were gaps and plotholes still lingering by the ending of the novel.
As much narrative intimacy as Oliver gave for the relationship between Dara and Nick, why couldn't more of that been provided with the return home for the little girl who was missing?
It had everything I love about Lauren Oliver's incredible writing, plus a huge sister/family angle and a gut wrenching ending that left me hiccuping in the corner.
Like Nick, I have a little sister.
They're so much trouble.) And then a car accident that leaves Dara scarred and Nick a mess.The sisters relationship is basically fire and ice.
Each sister thinks the other is more perfect, more fun, more loved.
Although I have to admit, it's interesting that this book got away with being called "Vanishing Girls".
REALLY?!" and then kind of smile because it's perfect and then sob because it's awful.Basically GO READ IT.
This psychological thriller was okay, but not very thrilling.Character's were interesting, but development was slow across the book.The sister relationship was quite unusual?
IDKThe mystery/thriller vibes were only right at the end which was sad.Writing was really nice & pacing was good!The plot seemed to lack direction for most of the novel though...Ending thoughts: Very clever indeed!
But I did not expect Dara to be dead.
The idea did cross my mind, but I quickly dismissed it since half was from Dara's perspective.
(hide spoiler)]I enjoyed the book, but I just wish that this novel had been more suspenseful!
I personally like her stand-alones way more then the Delirium series and even though I seen a lot of mixed her reviews for Vanishing Girls, I knew that I'd want to it no matter what.
I had a hard time keeping things in order in my head and towards the last half of the book, I felt really frustrated because I couldn't remember what was going on and I just really wanted to know what was happening.
If you've read Lauren's books in the past and didn't like the writing style, you won't like Vanishing Girls.
With the disappearance of a 9-year-old girl in town, Nick gets to realize how the two intertwine with each other, and discovers a dreadful truth about her sister.If you've ever read a Lauren Oliver book, you would know that you need a certain amount of patience in order to appreciate her books.
If you do that, you'll probably be able to guess what's going on when you reach the middle of the book, because of the hints left by Oliver here and there.
This is the third one to leave me feeling just "meh" about it.
It has all the elements I like in a thriller, and it had a good plot, a good ending...but not as successful as other novels, even though I hate to compare.
There is no doubt she is a talented author...I just feel like she has so much more potential than this!The pace was weird, the characters not as fleshed out as I want, some cheap distractions, and a predictable, lack luster twist ending that I've seen before, and seen done better.
And, as someone with two sisters (one of them being my twin), I really loved Dara and Nicks relationship, despite the dysfunctionality.
A fantastic book for those who like suspenseful, darker and character driven novels.
As I stated before, Vanishing Girls is very much a character driven novel, focusing primarily on the altered relationship between Dara and Nick after a car accident.
Personally, I think that Vanishing Girls is better than the two previously mentioned.Overall a fantastic piece of work from Lauren Oliver, which explores the ever changing relationship between sisters.
I started this book when I was looking through my kindle for something to read.
I also started reading this book not loving it.
I liked the characters, the drama (even though I'm not the drama queen, myself), the story.
But it was going really slow.
When everything clicked together, one by one like clockwork.
I was going to give this book a 3 star, but I think the last half of the book was so good, it earned 4 stars.
This story was so sad and happy and tearful and thrilling all at once.
