https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6932.What_Color_Is_Your_Parachute_A_Practical_Manual_for_Job_Hunters_and_Career_Changers
The good spouse is a sign of being at one with God's purpose, along with a sufficiently comfortable standard of living, therefore Bolles' exposition, in an inverse humility topos, of his great relationship with his wife is meant to reassure the reader that he is rewarded by God and therefore is more or less at one with God and therefore a reliable guide in assisting you to find God's purpose for you in life in exchange for the cover price of the book.It is mildly curious then to observe that all Bolles examples about living in accordance with God's will have nothing to do with the difference between being in or out of work, but instead are all about how you conduct yourself while either in work or out of it.Working now from the back towards the front of the book we come to the flower section in which you fill in the petals of a flower to show yourself flibbertigibiwasimaticallitcanhardlybebotheredtoexplainbecausereallyitisanoverlabouredexerciseabout values, if you've done Schein's Career Anchors, or some personality testing, or read a horoscope then you know the kind of thing involved.
The book is a must-read guide to navigate the confusing job search we all encounter from time to time.I was so curious as to whether the new edition would hold up in a cyber dependent world.
And now, there are literally hundreds of web links and sites listed to aid you in your job search.
Included in the newest edition is a chapter on how important your online presence is to your job search.
There is information on Linkedin, networking and everything in between.Thank you very much to the publisher and the wonderful folks at Blogging for Books.
I picked up this book at a time in my life when I was like, "ok, Rachel, it's time to figure some stuff out." Along came Richard Bolles, like my own sweet little Grandpa giving me life advice.
He actually had me doing all the cheesy exercises -- lists, graphs, venn-diagrams, even a flower chart for Pete's sake.
And in the end, gosh darnit, I knew I was going to move back to the Midwest and become a librarian!FYI, this book does have some serious Christian overtones, but Grandpa Bolles is pretty low-key about it.
It kind of makes you want to hug him, actually.
One of the important skills one should have in our modern society is the ability to look and be successful in getting a job.
If you are not looking for a job, you can still benefit by gaining the knowledge of what you really want to do.
If you want to get an understanding of why there are still so many unemployed people while employers are still finding it hard to fill in their vacancies, this book will enlighten us.2.
Anyone who wants to understand themselves betterJust another tip: This book demands a lot from its reader.
Loaded with practical job-hunting advice, the author has compiled the book into the following eleven informative chapters:*	Chapter 1 - It's a Whole New World for Job Hunters*	Chapter 2 - Google is Your New Resume*	Chapter 3 - There Are Over Eight Million Vacancies Available Each Month*	Chapter 4 - Sixteen Tips About Interviewing for a Job*	Chapter 5 - The Six Secrets to Salary Negotiation*	Chapter 6 - What to Do When Your Job-Hunt Just Isn't Working*	Chapter 7 - You Need to Understand More Fully Who You Are*	Chapter 8 - You Get to Choose Where You Work*	Chapter 9 - How to Deal with Any Handicaps You Have*	Chapter 10 - The Five Ways to Choose/Change Careers*	Chapter 11 - How to Start Your Own Business"The Blue Pages" (appendix A thru E) are filled with additional insightful, comprehensive information.
I've read this book and completed the exercises twice during my adult life, and it has helped me tremendously in answering the age-old question, "What is my mission in life."For those of us who live to work, and not work to live, this is the book for you.
I highly recommend completing the exercises, or "homework" as I call it, and you will uncover your talents and dreams that have been buried over the years.It will take a little bit of your time, maybe an hour a night for a week or two, or over two weekends.
Dick Bolles comes across as a doofus with too much time on his hands who just decided to sit down and write a book, and not as a job-market-savvy consultant.2) Seriously stupid advice.
This book does not say.In all it was a huge waste of my time to read this book, I'd have been better off finding jobs, writing cover letters, and tweaking my resume.
I guess if you've never, ever had a job that's required a resume and cover letter before, this book may be helpful, but most of the advice Dick Bolles provides is obvious and useless.
What he does do though is illuminate those all-too-easy to overlook things known as "the employer's thoughts and needs."Job seekers rarely have the opportunity or background knowledge to appreciate the employer as not only a representative of their company but also as an individual with wants, desires and needs.
A little goes a long way, and speaking from both personal and professional experience, common sense can carry you even further.
If you know the employer desperately needs to expand in an area of your expertise, speak to that need, etc.Good luck y'all.
If you are looking for a book which tries to teach you what you already know, this book is good for you. Other than a few useful websites and tips on finding jobs/your skills, this book was a waste of my time. At the end, the author surprises you by revealing his strong Christian faith; I just don't understand why on earth you would include a huge faith section on a job hunting book. He could have talked about faith in general. Well, this is my personal opinion, but I didn't like this book at all.
Why I Read this Book: I wanted to get a firm understanding of the career direction in which I wanted to head and how to go about it after finishing my university work.
Every time you are looking to change jobs and especially when you are looking to change careers, it is important to read through the most current version of this book.
The success stories he discuss in the book are inspirational.Bolles explains every job search method we have heard of out there today (and even some we have not).
More on the networking buzz word once you read through the book.Parachute is also a great job search reference book.
This was an interesting book, but A) I shouldn't have read it at the same time as another career book and B) I liked the format of the other career book better.
On the other hand, it did have a lot more links to helpful job search tools.
It's a recommend, but perhaps don't inundate yourself with job search info and read one at a time.
If I had, perhaps I would have liked this better.
Also I read the 2012 copy but was unable to find it on goodreads, so I marked this ad 2013.
Perhaps the newer version has updates that make it better.
Valuable Insight -- Whether You are Searching for A Job or NotNo job lasts forever--whether we admit it to ourselves or not.
This classic book (updated each year) is loaded with encouragement and insight for every reader.
The step-by-step insights are valuable to any reader at any place in the job market.I loved what Bolles said in the first chapter, "In today's world, he or she who gets hired is not necessarily the one who can do that job best; but, the one who knows the most about how to get hired.
You can thrive." (Page 14)This book is packed with ideas and action steps for every reader.
This book has been immensly popular for a long time. Its popularity is not due to the the author's writing style. For something that has gone through so many revisions, one might expect a polished, well-written tome. This is not the case. The book is written like a very lengthy ad; full of hyperbole, simplistic statements, and grammer that may be acceptable in the world of advertisng, but not that of non-fiction prose. It's hard to see why this book is so popular. Perhaps unemployment lowers people's self-esteem so badly that they feel they *deserve* to have their intelligence insulted.
Cuốn sách này cung cấp cho mình hướng đi để vượt xa người khác trong việc xác định nghề nghiệp.
Càng đầu tư thời gian suy nghĩ cho sự nghiệp, mình càng có thể chuẩn bị kỹ lưỡng hơn.
Sách thích hợp cho cả học sinh THPT lẫn học sinh đại học.
May mắn vì trước ngưỡng cửa đại học mình đã đọc được cuốn này😊😊😊 Lời khuyên quý giá nhất từ cuốn sách này là bạn đừng nên thu hẹp sự lựa chọn nghề nghiệp của mình.
Hãy học cách tìm kiếm để mở rộng lựa chọn.
Giờ là thời đại của multipotential rồi.
The author has extensive experience in the field, and backs up his ideas with impressive evidence.► THINGS I LIKED THE MOST ◄♦ Insight into the actual interviewing process--especially the suggested time min/max for your responses.
Bolles notes that surveys always show that not having a picture is a turn-off.♦ Explanation as to how the job hunt as changed in some ways, but in essence is still the same.► QUALITY OF EDITING ◄Excellent editing and book design.
The length of the average job hunt has increased, the length of time the average job lasts has decreased, the way jobs are done is changing, and not surprising that job hunting has move more and more online.The contents of this book include:* It's a whole new world for job-hunters* Google is your new résumé* There are over ten million vacancies each month* Sixteen tips about interviewing for a job* The six secrets of salary negotiations* What do to do when your job hunt just isn't working* Self-inventory, part 1* Self-inventory, part 2* You get to choose where you work* How do deal with any handicaps you have* The five ways to choose/change careers* How to start your own businessIn the appendices:* Finding your mission in life* A guide to dealing with your feelings while out of work* A guide to choosing a career coach or counselor* Sampler list of coachesThis book is a handy reference if you are out of work, trying to find a new career, trying to figure out what you want to do next, thinking about starting your own business and more.
It made a pretty convincing argument for this approach being pretty pointless.
And if you're skeptical about the system that he suggests, as I very much am (his solutions for how to get better at networking are laughably unrealistic and hokey for any person who has a hard time with networking because of shyness or whatever), then you're up shit creek: you've been convinced that your old way of doing things is wrong, but you're left with no solutions if you don't 100% buy the author's step-by-step guide.
I find this book vastly over-rated.
Yes, I ended up in an industry I LOVED, in a job that fit me well, but with no thanks to this book.
The questions posed in the book might also be very beneficial for high school students to read and may help focus their efforts, thoughts, and actions toward an end goal--even if they change their mind, a teen pondering questions like "what do I want to do?" and "where do I want to do it" will have a serious leg up on their peers.
Certain sections of this book are interesting, such as the section about the changing landscape of employers and job-seekers; however, the author could've spent more time writing about how to more effectively network, especially given that this seems to be the crux of his strategy for job-seekers, and less time about how to find the right career.
Other methods of job hunting are described, and we are recommended to use more than one.My lack of total enthusiasm comes from the facts that: it is all about America so a lot of the information given doesn't apply to me; it's dated from 2010, but a new edition is produced yearly; it's providing unrealistic scenarios, if you have read 'Nickel And Dimed' by Barbara Ehernreich; no mention of unions; it has an emphasis on religion, including a section on our Greater Purpose full of Capitalised Words about Spiritual Missions and whether God is Gracious - I'll quote Stephen Fry, "Bone cancer in children?" The practical areas of the book include the simplest facts, like in the main, smokers do not get hired.
I'm pretty sure that my flower would say that I'd be best in a creative job, like writer or artist which--guess what!--I'm already doing, but a lot of people need jobs that aren't just emotionally fulfilling, but also pay enough that you can pay bills with it.One of the ways Bolles suggests you go about getting your perfect job when you decide what that is is to talk to people from the companies you want to work for.
It probably won't cost me anything except time, and the flower-exercises are a lot like personality tests, which I adore.
The book never addresses the central question: what color is your parachute? In fact, parachutes (of any color) are never mentioned at all.
Of course, if you are buying PARACHUTE for the very first time, get the latest one; however, if you already have a recent edition, I think that’s good enough.
Perhaps start with the preliminary, “A Two-Minute Crash Course on How Much Has Changed in the World of Work.” This is quick reading, and provides a good overview of the job search process.
If you are serious about your job hunt, get the book, and review the relevant sections.
Richard N Bolles is like a god in the career counseling world, but I have to admit that I have never been much of a What Color is Your Parachute?
However, I know that many job seekers every year turn to Bolles, and given The Great Recession, this minister's words of comfort have been greatly needed.
2014: A Practical Manual for Job Hunters and Career Changers strikes a good balance between offering the hard-nosed advice most job seekers need and instilling hope.Bolles still includes The Flower Exercise even though I've always felt like it is way too much work.
Kind of like I still rather every employer would want to hire me whether I'm fit for the job or not.
An interview is two people trying to decide if they want "to go steady." An interview is not to be thought of as marketing (yourself): i.e., selling yourself to a half-interested employer.
Rather, an interview is part of your research, i.e., the data-collecting process that you have been engaged in, or should have been engaged in, during your whole job-hunt.
95) Remember, the hiring process is more like choosing a mate, then it is like deciding whether or not to buy a new car.
It mostly made me think about things I already knew, but it also made me consider what working space/conditions I would like to have.This quote (edited out the bad parts):"What is success?To laugh often and much;To win the respect of [intelligent] people and the affection of children;To earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends;To appreciate beauty; to find the best in others;To leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition;To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived;This is to have succeeded." (232).Tests to check out:Dewey Colour System (www.deweycolorsystem.com/tests/color-...)UPDATE: I tried this and it SUCKS.
Bolles relates some good information on interviewing and the job market, yet the real selling point of the book is the 'flower exercise' Bolles designed as a method of helping readers figure out what kind of career they want to pursue, based on their experiences and personal interests.I didn't discover anything revelatory about myself or my passions/interests in completing said exercise, however it was somewhat helpful in that it reiterated things I knew, or was curious about, or perhaps didn't like.
However I certainly wasn't expecting a career-oriented self-help book to start espousing full-blown Christianity, and I personally found it to be a turnoff.
Anyone with a Job (or not) can learn Something In These PagesWhether we want to acknowledge it or not, the world of work and career is filled with uncertainty.
If you have a job, maybe you are thinking about a change.
If you don’t have a job, and are looking for one, WHAT COLOR IS YOUR PARACHUTE?
Each year the information in this book is revised and updated.
Whether you need the six secrets for salary negotiation or five ways to choose / change careers, everyone will profit from the information in these pages.
Inspirational quotes and valuable website resources are throughout the book.
Now I have a few years of experience under my belt and I think I can afford to be a little choosier.I liked the flower exercise a lot.
I think it helped me really analyze how I liked to work and what I wanted to do.
I do think the parts on how to actual find a company that fits your flower is a little unrealistic.
At least not face to face, maybe on LinkedIn.Some of the advice is a little obvious, but I did get a lot of value out of this book and will be applying a lot of what I've learned to the job hunt.
I was introduced to this book back in 90’s and found it very helpful.
I now teach and lecture on this subject of speeding up and landing employment that is self-directed and is meaningful.
I was looking for some current literature that might confirm or expand my thinking on this subject and this book did just that.
Richard Bolles, the author, did an amazing job capturing today’s job market, and he offers suggestions and strategies on how to deal with this stressful task of finding opportunities that suit you.
I can’t say enough good things about this book and the author.
