https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404223.The_Wounded_Land
I started this book and found Thomas Covenant was himself, as we knew him in the first series..."woe is me!
Life is unfair (to me), all is lost, there is no hope!" So I followed his example....I saved myself!
Got through this one (or possibly suffered through this one [am I starting to sound like Thomas Covenant?] and went no farther.
Don't get sucked down!I'm not a fan of Thomas (the world is unfair to me so everybody owes me) Covenant.
I AM STARTING TO SOUND LIKE THOMAS COVENANT!!!!Yeah, I'm through, no more Thomas Covenant.Learn from my example, save yourself.
Open up to any page, and there will be six words you've never heard before, minimum, and so many similes you begin to wonder if anything has any actual attributes, or only exists as a comparison to something else.That's point one that all but ruined the reading experience for me.
But he braced himself on the rocks, remained erect like a witness and a demand."I just had to throw that out there, as it illustrates both Covenant's inaction and the omnipresence of those infernal similes.Finally, everyone has pretty much the same character traits: serious, dramatic, and grim.
Alongside Linden Avery, a doctor from his world, he struggles to find some semblance of the world he once knew and set things right.This is the first book in the second Thomas Covenant trilogy and in every way it surpasses the last series!
Even though he is still not entirely likable, he is someone you can identify with because he is human and has his flaws."A man may be fated to die, but no fate can determine whether he will die in courage or cowardice."Linden Avery completely blew my expectations away with how much I liked her right off the bat.
Even though the first three books were not fantastic, the series just keeps getting better and better.He did not intend to die.
Actually, I wouldn't say it is his narrative style that is drawn out and plodding, but his character Thomas Covenant.
Donaldson is not presenting a clever story set in a magical world that is entertaining for its own sake.
It has been a long time since I read the first trilogy, so it wouldn't be fair to compare this first book in the Second Chronicles to them.
Nevertheless, Donaldson keeps the reader moving, even if at the pace of a sur-jeherrin traversing a mire, and fleshes out the very original world of The Land such that one cares about what is happening.
This is accomplished in three major ways, firstly by the introduction of a new character who can give us a glimpse of what Covenant looks like from the outside.
Dr. Linden Avery feels like a well-developed character, which is impressive because she could have been dropped into the story with little explanation and it would have worked.
The possibility that Lord Foul might be able to affect our own world is something that could have dramatic implications later.Finally, the nature of The Land itself has changed, although after three centuries have passed we might have expected some new developments.
The gist, for those who want to skip the lengthy review: these three books are more action-packed and immediately engaging than the previous trilogy, and Donaldson continued to hold true to the strengths that made the first novels a pleasure to read.This trilogy was the better written, for me.
More action packed, more events-driven and easier to get into.
The horrors being wrought on the Land are a testament to Donaldson's originality, and seem worse than anything that came before.The scope of the World beyond the Land's borders is also greatly widened, introducing exotic new locales, people and races.
(not quite four thousand years ago, though.)As I wrote in my brief notes about the 3rd book of the original trilogy, when Donaldson decided to continue writing about the Land and Thomas Covenant, he (and his publisher) were very upfront about it: "The Second Chronicles" bit doesn't try to slip one by you.)As for the book, at first it was a surprise to see the deterioration of both the protagonist and the Land.
The tone of this book (indeed all of the 2nd trilogy) is a bit "faster" with more action and immediacy.
Adore, always have...
I read this series when in high school.
Mostly because my brother told my mom about it while I was listening, and when I said I was going to read it, he told me it was way above my head and even he had to keep a dictionary nearby to understand the vocabulary.
I fell in love with the characters, and spent many a week eating up this series like dark chocolate brownies with homemade fudge buttercream icing.
I don't know that I've ever loved characters as much, since.
Donaldson is extremely clever here I think, the land is a character in it's own right in this series, in the 2nd trilogy he has given it another aspect that is equally interesting.
More so I think, since the land seems to actively be causing harm to itself and its people, the antithesis of what it was before!One of the things I really liked about this trilogy was how Thomas Covenant is ready to step up and be a hero.
I doubt anyone will read the blathering reviews I have been putting up here, but this is probably my last 5 star review for the Chronicles of Thomas Covenant.
More than anything that has gone before, the fourth installment of Donaldson's psycho-fantasy can be read and enjoyed in two ways - a dark, violent fantasy adventure or the frightening dreams of a man filled with guilt and illness trying to work through his nightmares with heroic effort.
Covenant is cursed by Foul's predictions, doomed to place the wild magic into his hands but still strives to battle his fate.
The book closes with redemption still a long way away, vemon pulsing in Covenant's blood and a burning desire to keep reading their nightmare journey.
I read the first and second trilogies back in the 80s and reread them when I recently discovered yet a third trilogy at the library.
"The Wounded Land" is the first entry of the Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant trilogy.
In the series, a leper, Thomas Covenant, is magically transported to The Land on several occasions to save it from the evil Lord Foul.
The Thomas Covenant stories read like a noir detective novel compared to Tolkien's lyrical and mythic style.
Still, I'm 2 books into the third trilogy - The Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant - which is a confusing ride to say the least.
The self loathing that the characters express got old fast.
In the first trilogy, I understand it.
Then, when he is transported to an alternate reality where his feelings overwhelm him he acts like a complete SOB.But to continue such loathing for another trilogy is just too much.
It's just, "I hate myself I'm going to hurt people" "I'm not worthy of love I always kill those that are stupid enough to love me" Every single paragraph is just filled with attempts to synthesize and regurgitate new words to describe the same old self loathing.
It seamlessly continues the story, although the second trilogy was not something Donaldson ever planned to write.It's always a test for me of how much I come to care for the characters in any fictional work, and Donaldson does a marvelous job of developing empathy for characters that are flawed, incomplete, and/or incapacitated by their pasts.
In other words, all too human.The other thing I love about his writing here is the intrigue that he weaves into the story, making it unpredictable and sometimes maddening and yet delightful in its twists and turns.The last chapters are both beautiful and haunting.
Great book, probably the most compelling so far (out of these first 4 books). While the main character still struggles with the fear of his power and the necessity of using it, he seems to be coming to terms with it. WOUNDED LAND does a good job of tying in with the events in the previous books, and keeping the reader's interest in where it's all leading.
The second chronicles of Thomas Covenent, book one! This continuation of the beautifully magical tale returns Thomas Covenent to "The Land" but it's been harshly altered. Still a GREAT story and writing that always VASTLY expands your vocabulary!
What a change from the ending of last trilogy. Feel such a lost for the Land. But keeps you interested in the story, great continuation of the Chronicles.
Readers of the first trilogy who look into the opening volume of the second will be as dismayed as Thomas Covenant himself to discover what Lord Foul has done to the Land since Covenant’s last visit almost 4000 years ago.
Donaldson thus deftly relies in this book on Covenant obtaining and utilizing Loric’s Krill (a legendary and powerful sword) as a way to enable Covenant to act heroically as he simultaneously becomes disenchanted with utilizing the magic of his ring.
Another excellent book in this series. Four thousand years have passed since Covenant first freed the Land from the devastating grip of Lord Foul and his minions. But he is back, and Convenant, armed with his stunning white gold magic, must battle the evil forces and his own despair...
I am currently almost done the entire second chronicles. I love how the land has changed in this set and there are so many interesting and creative things that they encounter in this set! I never thought I would be into reading about sea travel, but he certain kept it interesting!
#9 1988
While I often wanted to smash his teeth in in the first two-three books, he gradually manages to become softer and more sympathetic, and in this installment felt like much, MUCH less of a bloody selfish coward.
I was slightly hopeful with Harry Potter when Madame Maxime emerged, but this soon turned into annoyance and yawning.
Them dik-shu-naa-rees is fer, like, like, pussies." No wonder so many people in, ahem, a certain country don't even bother to learn to spell their one and only native tongue properly.When I read, I want my brain to get a little bit of exercise.
Even Thomas Covenant seems darker (if that's even possible; I mean, hell, his first reaction to The Land was to rape a 16-year-old).Anyway, The Second Chronicles are darker.
His fight with the Haruchai was probably one of the most gripping fight scenes I've read.And Pitchwife was like Foamfollower only even more endearing for his disability and un-Giantness, which made him all the more Giant-like in the end.The final novel of the trilogy made me anxious.
Not knowing there would be a third trilogy, I saw this as THE FINAL NOVEL, and I knew the story would have to be given a conclusion.
Hostages are taken to Revelstone – once an icon of love of earthlore – to be bled to feed the Sunbane.While Donaldson wrote from a few points of view in the first trilogy, it was clear that Covenant was the focal point of the story.
In the second trilogy, we get a sense that Linden Avery is a greater focal point than is Covenant.
The transformation of Covenant from a pitiful whiner (albeit effective anti-hero) into a decisive, heroic figure, is the most remarkable trait of the new trilogy.Instead of transporting us back to the real world at the end of this book, we stay in the Land.
There is a significant event near to the end of the book but it is not conclusive – no closure.Thomas Covenant is still rages against himself while still learning to control his wild magic.
A quest that will take him from one side of the land to the other and back again until at last he reaches the sea and ship-full of giants seeking to cure the ill of the earth.So, as you can see there is a lot to get through in a single book, so fittingly, Stephen Donaldson does not try to cram it all in.
Character of Vain did not add much to the story but I will give Donaldson a chance to further develop that particular story line in future books ( If not this would be a significant flaw in the story)I do appreciate that Donaldson did not take the easy way out and did transform the culture of the Land with a viable explanation to remaining connections to past experiences/beliefs being twisted.Covenant is no longer a simpering whiner as he takes actions, makes decisions, recognizes others feelings.
However, despite this book being significantly different from the first three, I enjoyed it all the same.
The plight of the land, the corruption of beauty, the twisting of lies and truth, have direct analogies to me of real life today.
The introduction of another character (Linden) from our world and two new characters from the Land (Sunder and Hollian) develop different themes of struggle, life, good, and evil.
The twisted evil of Sunder being required to sacrifice his mother echoes of similar strife's in our world.
The capstone of this book is indeed the climax of the story - the redemption of the Unhomed by Covenant.
This second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever is as good as the first.
Donaldson is able to successfully resurrect Lord Foul the Despiser, the Three Ravers, and a conflict actually more intense than the one he created the first time.
Thomas Covenant has lived ten years longer with his leprosy, and has been able to find success as a writer.
Four thousand years has passed, and the Land is ravaged by the Sunbane, and once more, no healing is possible.
Donaldson writes with the same intensity and even greater wisdom than the first time, even though this story drags a little in some places.
But since Good Reads can only give whole numbers, why not, let's give it a 4-star rating.Quite honestly though, I think I enjoyed this book the most out of the rest of the series.
Donaldson returns us to the Land, and it's all wrong.
And I must say, I like Linden so much better than Hile Troy, who was a waste of a character.
I still give it a low rating because it still is a chore to read, like all of Thomas Covenant.
I give points to how much better a read it is..
Interesting yet still a chore to read..

Il sangue.La magia è spesso limitata nella morale dell'incredulo, che assume il ruolo della scelta legata agli sbagli di un passato che lo perseguita, ma di cui appare chiaro saprà liberarsi.
I personaggi sono definiti per servire il ruolo dell'incredulo, nel suo riscatto morale e fisico, senza esagerare; satelliti, ma fedeli alle proprie caratteristiche.Gli elementi, i nemici e le magie sono creati dalla fantasia dell'autore (assenti elfi, orchi o troll), ma l'influenza di Tolkien che ritrovo nello stile non si può negare ed è apprezzabile.È il primo di una trilogia e sono certo​ che leggerò anche gli altri due.
