https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459082.The_Plumed_Serpent
It's a mad book, no doubt about it.
It's full of ferocity and discontent.
And it does seem to ask us to take its ideas about cults and gods and blood seriously.
It has stupid notions about race.
It is infected with a misanthropic disdain for most people.
It is rescued, as a book, by its ambivalences and self-questioning.
It is a kind of challenge, a kind of poison, but it is something, not nothing, not a novel about petty, dull, self-important people.
More a novel about grand, pompous, absurd, self-important creatures.
I'm happy I've read it.
I would not re-read it.
I could only get through the first 45 pages of privileged white Americans (and one Irish woman) who move to Mexico and then complain about the Mexicans. Nobody has time for that shit.
Always an autobiographical writer, The Plumed Serpent catches Lawrence in the midst of his famed "savage pilgrimage's" North American swing, specifically Mexico.Well, let me tell you, Lawrence will put you there!
The novel opens at a bullfight in Mexico City, and you need to remember that Lawrence is no ordinary writer.
Both men want to revive the old pagan ways (and this is where Lawrence, obsessed with sexuality and blood, comes in with his phallic power notions), and little by little Kate is drawn under their spell.The book will impact you.
The smallness, the limitation ceased to exist.The Plumed Serpent is pure Lawrence.
As a writer, Lawrence emits a sense of greatness, of towering above the ordinary and rendering nearly everyone else small-minded by comparison; this is thoroughly in keeping with the attitudes of this very Nietzschean novel.
Story, style and Lawrentian philosophy synthesise to produce true greatness at intermittent moments; elsewhere the going can be tough, but there's is always a latent sense of true power.
I find Lawrence's short stories the most compelling, and I agree with the consensus that Sons And Lovers, The Rainbow and Women In Love are his greatest novels, but The Plumed Serpent is a powerful, memorable work by a most vital original master, with whom it is bracing to engage.
This was so crazy I just had to love it.It's about Kate, Irish widow, who is in Mexico and pretty much hating it and everyone in it.
We shall have it here!' - he struck his breast - 'and here!' - he struck his belly - 'and here!' - he struck his loins."and"Ramon knelt and pressed his arms close round Cipriano's waist, pressing his black head against his side.
And Cipriano began to feel as if his mind, his head were melting away in the darkness; like a pearl in black wine, the other circle of sleep began to swing, vast.
Remember Mexico was still fresh from revolution.
Lawrence does tap into the 'political' here, but from that vision of his always textured with body-psychology.
Any reader not expecting immersion in liquids denser than simple bathwater should be forewarned.Lawrence comes as close as any, for a man, to getting at a woman's psyche.
His world smells and gets felt, annoys and perturbs.
In short, it means itself in a context that strikes a reader as seriously real.Is it possible for moderns to become Aztec gods?
Is it possible for two men and a woman to find their 'place' together?

As the academic wrote in the Introduction to my edition: “if you want a handbook for how to set up your own Fascist group this has it all.” The main theme of this book is the establishment of a Fascist group in Mexico using pre-European type gods to influence the native Indian population to join.
The publication date is really important when reading this book, because if you don’t then you can easily run along claiming Lawrence is a supporter of Mussolini & Hitler.
Really, Mr Lawrence!!!!Finally, there is the sensuality & sexuality in the book.
Although one hesitates to give any book by D.
H. Lawrence two stars, in this case I must.
The Plumed Serpent is no Son’s and Lovers.
This late Lawrence book is filled with long-winded, pretentious and repetitive passages of ersatz Aztec religious claptrap and equally ill-conceived mysticism about the savage Mexican Indian as a race.
Lawrence’s take on gender relations in this world of neo-Aztec revival is equally unattractive.
At the same time, there are the descriptive passages of great lyric beauty that are pure Lawrence and some earnest wrestling with questions of individualism versus the commonality of humankind.
Disappointing read. I had a very hard time staying with this story as it was slow and negative. I wanted to put it down multiple times but stayed with it hoping for a lovely finish. Would not recommend like I would Lady C's Lover.
I took several months to read this book, working on it slowly and diligently, trying to enjoy and comprehend each page. In whole, it's really about the ambivalence of the protagonist, Kate, for Mexican culture and people. In parts, it was beautiful, even exciting at one juncture, but mostly slow and darkly atmospheric. I had a lot of trouble staying awake at times, but I'm glad I stuck with it, and I won't forget it anytime soon. I gave it 4 stars, but 3.5 is what I'd like to give it.
'I, if I have children,' said Teresa, 'I shall try to cast my bread upon the waters, so my children come to me that way. I hope I shall. I hope I shall not try to fish them out of life for myself, with a net. I have a very great fear of love. It is so personal. Let each bird fly with its own wings, and each fish swim its own course.--Morning brings more than love. And I want to be true to the morning.'
Quickly becoming enamoured of Kate, he influences her to move to the lake town of Sayula - the centre of Don Ramon’s new cult.The Plumed Serpent is a work of such intense criticism of - well - just about everything, actually - that it is kind of the literary equivalent of being bashed about the head with a cricket bat.
The scene where Don Ramon’s house is attacked by bandits is as desperate and graphically violent as anything from a modern thriller writer.Although not considered one of his greatest novels, The Plumed Serpent is a profound and savage work.
Told from the point of view of Kate Leslie, a middle-aged Irishwoman visiting Mexico, who becomes acquainted with two men trying to re-establish the Aztec religion in place of Catholicism, which they feel doesn't "suit" the Mexican people, it seems to ask and sometimes answer quite a few questions?
Lawrence ties these questions not just to the lives and spirits (etc) of the individual characters, but to the societies of the people - Mexican, European and American (US).
[Examples too long to post...]A big question I have is what impressions do Mexican readers have of Lawrence's portrayal of Mexico - does it ring true TO YOU when you read it?
'The Plumed Serpent' is the strangest D.H. Lawrence novel I've read, and I did nearly give it up altogether a couple of times.
However much Lawrence might have disparaged the English class system in his other novels, 'The Plumed Serpent' betrays this system at work in the author.
Modern readers, particularly, in reacting to this book have charged Lawrence with racism, and in fact the novel makes some pretty distasteful, disparaging remarks about the Indians.
I've tried to balance the argument about the era that the writer lived in against the way that people and history have come to be perceived now, with mixed results; I did, however continue to read and find value in the novel.
Lawrence's epic about Mexico reclaiming its old Aztec gods is both overlong and overblown, especially the many pages he spends unfolding one religious chant after another.
It's also a little annoying that his desire to return to primitive consciousness is dependent upon so many people being stupid.On the other hand, you can often read his prose for hour after hour never caring what he's actually blathering about, because it is so damn well written that the words themselves mesmerize you.
Even in his failures, Lawrence remains a great writer.
Still, four stars, not five, with advice to skip the religious chants.
The best and worst of Lawrence: on one hand a powerful feeling for the environment of Mexico and som
So, I love DH Lawrence--I devoured most of his novels while in highschool and decided to pick this up at the bookstore because it was a DH Lawrence taking place in one of my favorite places: Mexico.
I thought I'd love it, well, other than the frenetic, fantastic description of Mexico City, I really hated this book.
The tempo was slow, the story line not compelling and in the end I didn't even finish reading it, which I never do.I'm not sure if my adoration of Lawrence's other books was just a highschool crush or if this one was just horrible, but I was sincerely disappointed by this book.
"Пернатата змия" доста се отличава от останалите творби на Лорънс, въпреки че отново се усеща яркото проявление на индивидуалността на модерния човек (в случая жена), противопоставено на традицията, миналото и закостенелостта.
Книгата е хубава, на моменти религиозното идва в повече, но не може да се отрече, че авторът е тънък познавач на човешката психика и успява много добре да обрисува противоречивите чувства на човешката душа.
Колкото и да е свободна и независима, Кейт въпреки всичко си остава жена, която иска да бъде обичана, а Сиприано и Рамон - предимно отправени към божественото, гледащи с други очи на света.
Интересни сблъсъци и противопоставяния в цялята книга.
When I read this book I was fascinated by the feminist implications of a mother of two boys leaving her family behind and starting a new life in an exotic land.
Now, putting these theoretical interests on the backburner, I would be interested to reread this book as a work of fiction first and foremost.
I believe my finding that this book would be deeply flawed, if for not other reason than the fact that, as I remember it, the arrival of Kate to Mexico is poorly explained.
In this way the book contains the same kind of inexplicable action as "Sister Carrie."
I found this book interesting. It is a mix of religion, philosophy, mysticism, cultism and is essentially about rebirth and letting go of what you think you know and giving all of yourself to something. It was like nothing else I've read of Lawrence, but it's a book that will make you think if you read it with an open mind.
Straight white people bullshit. An old rich haciendado and a frumpy expat widow get up to racist, sexist, culturally exploitative shenanigans in bumfuck nowhere mexico. The best part is lawrence thinks he's writing something serious.And yet, it's clear lawrence loves Mexico with a passion you just dont hear about these days.
The best thing about having read this book is that I will no longer have it on my reading list. The Plumed Serpent is a mishmash of bad sociology, bad anthropology and bad theology all jumbled together in a noxious stew of racism, sexism and neo-paganism.
"I really hate Mexico and Mexicans." > "Oh hey look, neoprimitive religion is making a comeback, human sacrifice and all." > "I really love Mexico and Mexicans." Boring, boring, boring.
He could have written a novel just as awful as this one with about 20% as many words.
Ugh full review to appear here at some point https://thereadersroom.org/
Although the descriptions were vintage Lawrence (one would undoubtedly empathise with Kate's disgust at the bullfight because it was depicted so vividly) it quickly got bogged down in description and verse about a revival of Aztec beliefs which is being orchestrated by a charismatic fellow she meets, one Don Ramon.
She spends a great deal of time, however, thinking about Don Ramon's contention that male or female assume the role of the ravished, or of the ravisher.
Lawrence is actually examining his own ideas about colonialism "For the white man, let him bluster as he may, is hollow with misgivings about his own superiority".
An Irish woman finds herself living abroad in Mexico, and her highly detailed distaste for the culture and the people remains a common theme throughout.
I skipped several pages containing those long-ass rants on the culture's "inferiority", as well as the Quetzalcoatl sermons that I felt didn't really contribute to the quality of the book.
The book did have it's moments, so I do have to appreciate the boldness of making such statements.
To be fairly honest, I don't think I was put off by the vulgarity of some statements so much as the monotony of the entire novel.
You aren't Mexico.
I know in books like this you pretty much have to just ignore all the casual racism, but there were other things that annoyed me about it as well.
He also really likes the words "naked" "inchoate" and "pallid".
Some of the writing was pretty, I enjoyed the songs about Quetzalcoatl and I kept going until the end so there must have been something that drew me in, but it just wasn't very good.
This is the third book of DH Lawrence that I have tried, and while I liked Sons and Lovers, I'm starting to think he's just not for me.
Considered by many to be one of the author's lesser works, this 1926 novel is a bit slow in places, but otherwise, it's pure Lawrence in its thematic concerns. The story offers a penetrating examination of religious obsession and the arrogance of the human will, of the inner-world of spirituality and mysticism, and of the flesh versus the spirit. The setting--an exotic yet arid, crime-ridden rural Mexico--is not merely a backdrop for the story, but becomes a foreboding main character in itself, much like Egdon Heath does in Thomas Hardy's The Return of the Native. Lyrical, philosophical, and haunting.
