https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6759700-the-further-adventures-of-sherlock-holmes
I found this book almost by chance and it has been a pleasant surprise.The novel tell the events described in the book "The War of the Worlds" by HG Wells, experienced by two of the most famous characters of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle: Sherlock Holmes and Professor Challenger.
Apart from that, it's an enjoyable book that lets to examine, from an interesting point of view, the novel of Wells and where the author is described so unflattering.
Note that in the book appears, though in one scene, another character of Doyle, (view spoiler)[Lord John Roxton  (hide spoiler)].
Manly Wade Wellman y su hijo Wade Wellman nos ofrecen un pastiche holmesiano mezclado con la genial obra de H.G. Wells ‘La guerra de los mundos’.
Más que una continuación, se trata de una revisión de la invasión marciana desde diferentes puntos de vista, los de unos personajes muy especiales: Sherlock Holmes, el profesor Challenger y el doctor Watson.
A esto hay que añadir el suplemento de un par de obras de Wells, el relato ‘El huevo de cristal’, que sirve de prólogo a la invasión, y el ensayo ‘Los habitantes de Marte’.
Personalmente, la novela me ha parecido interesante y poco más.
Volvemos a saber lo sucedido en el libro “La guerra de los mundos” pero desde otros puntos de vista. En este caso Holmes y Challenger se unen para investigar y combatir esta invasión. Un gran entretenimiento este libro, no falta de nada, hasta buenas ilustraciones le acompañan. Realmente es como escrito por Conan Doyle juntos a Wells, sus personajes no pierden la personalidad tan características que muestran en sus novelas originales, y tiene el punto de fantástico de Wells.
Pleasantly surprised, was a pretty interesting read. 3.5 stars maybe 4.
With his recent surge in local popular culture, Sherlock Holmes is bound to need some new challenges in his storied detective career.
In The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: War of the Worlds, Manly and Wade Wellman take Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s popular character (as well as his Professor Challenger from The Lost World) into a battle for survival while E.T. reigns down destruction in London.
In the novel we get looks at former characters out of the original Holmes’ stories as well as new characters that fit right in with Holmes and Watson with really no noticeable issues.
4.5/5
Not much for Holmes to do in this oneVerified Purchase(What's this?)This review is from: The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: War of the Worlds (Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (Paperback)) (Kindle Edition)I admire Manly Wade Wellman's stories of John the Balladeer aka Silver John (these can be found in the e-book version of MOUNTAIN MAGIC.
However this Sherlock Holmes story just doesn't work.
Perhaps the Wellmans were too constrained by the H.
The Wellmans do introduce a surprising love interest for Holmes.
This review is from the kindle edition sold by Amazon Digital Services.
This book traces the events described in H.G. Wells's brilliant The War of the Worlds and the related "The Crystal Egg" (both 1897) from the perspective (and involvement) of characters from Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes and Professor Challenger universes.It unfolds as a series of stories told either by Edward Dunn Malone (the reporter for the London newspaper The Daily Globe who features in and sometimes narrates the Professor Challenger tales) or Dr. John H.
These include 1: The Adventure of the Crystal Egg (by Malone), 2: Sherlock Holmes Verses Mars (by Malone), 3: George E.
There are several startling revelations...one in particular about Holmes and a few that "set the record straight" (as Watson would put it) about the events In London during the attack.Overall, the Wellmans do an adequate job of telling their story and incorporating the worlds of Doyle and Wells.
I think the portions which focus on the Professor's and Watson's point of view work best.
AND, given the good doctor's inclination to describe and have great sympathy for the beautiful women who employ Holmes as clients, you can't tell me that he wouldn't have mentioned that Mrs. Hudson was a youngish (30-ish), blonde, blue-eyed, statuesque, beauty.
The lesser known Professor Challenger is also bought into the mix and there is a wonderfully cheeky revelation about Holmes' private life.THINGS NOT TO LIKEThe authors have taken all this potential and done absolutely nothing with it.
The reader is just told what it is near the beginning of the story.I suspect that the authors were just too timid to add anything, but in places it feels as if they are actually trying to be dull.THINGS IT IS LIKEThe War of the Worlds by HG WellsThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan DoyleEdison's Conquest of Mars, by Garrett P.
The first in my edition is on page 41 when Challenger refers to H.G. Wells as having "some rather sketchy scientific background, along with a bizarre imagination." The second is eight pages forward.
Watson and Holmes are discussing H.G. Wells when Watson refers to him as "A sensation-mongering hack, suspiciously revolutionary in his notions..." These two instances marked for me the point of no return for this novel.
But the comments about Wells I found completely unnecessary to the plot and indeed quite malicious.
Being a big H.G. Wells fan I was completely alienated before page 50, the remaining portion never redeeming itself from these initial jabs.
The Wellmans combine the world's of Doyles' two main protagonists, Sherlock Holmes and Professor Challenger, with the England of H.G.Wells War of the Worlds (adding bits from Wells' short story, "The Crystal Egg"). An entertaining read, with some fun bits, but don't expect any revelations or major changes to the Wells story. Basically, this is an en bloc retelling of the original but through the eyes of Doyle's characters. For the picky Holmesian, the Sh.H. depiction is a little weak, but otherwise the story and characters mostly work.
The mash-up idea of Sherlock Holmes and War of the Worlds (not too mention the inclusion of another Doyle character: Professor Challenger), has an immense amount of potential. Sadly the Wellmans achieve nothing even close to interesting, not even coming close to having a grasp of the essential character of Holmes (pairing him off romantically with the Landlady, let alone saying shit like he thinks of himself as a perfectionist kisser (!) is so contrary to the character and just a waster of pages) and merely writing off the Well's characters as idiots...what is the point? Unreadable.
Lots of deducting but not much action as Holmes and Watson face an invasion of London launched from the planet Mars. Holmes meets his equal in intelligence in Mr Challenger (nice twist on the name) who is the first to tell you how smart he is.While there is investigation, the results on the invasion rest squarely with the invaders; and Holmes and Watson are merely bystanders.Throw in H.G. Wells, which the author did, and you get an entertaining read
A very good, interesting story. I like that i uses HG Wells War of the Worlds and places Holmes and another Doyle character, Professor Challenger and incorporates them into the story. I like how Watson is upset that Wells has misrepresented the true facts of the invasion and left out key contributions of Challenger and Holmes. This one made me smile.
Utterly boring, Watson is off somewhere else for most of the book, Mr Challenger is annoying and adds nothing, Mrs Hudson is moved from a background character to Holmes' lover (which I find disturbing and frankly gross). Not a fan at all of this story.
In short, with a premise like Sherlock Holmes and the War of the Worlds this book should have been fun. Instead it was boring and tedius and not at all engaging. A complete and utter disappointment. It soured me on reading any more of this range.
I had no idea Wellman had ever written anything featuring Sherlock Holmes so already this book had a lot going for it before I even cracked the cover.
In addition this book also features Professor Challenger, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's OTHER series character.
The original stories featuring Holmes remain worth reading today, and so too does The Lost World.
The principal idea behind this book should be evident (one might even say elementary.) Holmes' career spans the time of the Martian invasion HG Wells chronicles in his original novel The War of the Worlds.
I never picked up on this while reading the original Holmes stories.
"Sherlock Holmes's War of the Worlds" qualifies as abysmal.
Unfortunately, the Wellmans have goofed in their description of Arthur Conan Doyle's famous character Professor George Edward Challenger.
Doyle gave the odious professor grey eyes, whereas the Wellmans have changed the color of those eyes from grey to blue!
Now, she is far younger, and Holmes, and she enjoy a romantic relationship.
Moreover, they conclude their narrative with attacks on Wells for supposedly misrepresenting what actually happened.
I don't think that Wells would have cared very much for their version of the events that he created.
I was a bit taken aback by Wellman's portrayal of a romance between Mrs. Hudson and Holmes until I realized that he was keeping it secret from everyone. Well played, Mr. Wellman, well played.
Meh. I was hoping for better. A lot better. This could've been awesome. It was decidedly Not.
A great rewriting of War of the Worlds and bringing in Sherlock Holmes and Professor Challenger as major participants before and after the invasion. I have recently read the HG Wells book and this tailors that story well and even has Holmes, Challenger and Watson criticising Wells' lack of scientific rigour.There is some additional plotting that provides a new perspective on the invasion.
ok, not the best
Sherlock Holmes plays but only a partial role in the days of H.G. Wells' War of the Worlds as imagined by this father/son author duo.
For much of the Martian attack, the Watson-less travails of Holmes and Challenger suffered from just that - a lack of Watson.
"Why isn't Watson the one deducing that bacteria might stop the Martians in their tracks?!" I cried to no one in my office or on the bus.
But fear not, for Watson appears sure enough and in fact, you sort of regret it.
The thought that they weren't from Mars but beings looking for a planet to sustain their existance - without much luck, shows that a story can be taken in many different ways.The thing that disturbed me a little was the idea that Holmes and Mrs Hudson were getting it on and that Watson couldn't see it!More than anything this novel made me want to re-read The War of the Worlds and to read the real Sherlock Holmes novels.
Characters from Sherlock Holmes novels -- including a brief touch on Victor Trevor, a highly ignored character -- and Professor Challenger from The Lost World.
The plot was basically taken from Wells's The War of the Worlds.Having not read The Lost World, I have no idea how in character Professor Challenger was, but having read Sherlock Holmes, I know that Holmes was definitely off.Other than that, I enjoyed it.
Not really what I would call a mystery since everyone knows the basic premise of The War of the Worlds.
Manly and Wade Wellman's approach to this basically boils down to "Sure, Wells had a great idea, but he did it wrong." Wells' original novel is presented herein as another, less factual account of a real event (an alien invasion) and at every turn the Wellmans go out of their way to have the characters make snide comments about Wells' "inaccurate" account, up to and including a letter from Watson to Wells at the end where he basically calls him a liar and a fraud - The aliens aren't Martians, Wells (here said to the original book's unnamed narrator) couldn't have possibly seen half the things he saw, he's wrong about this, he's wrong about that.
H.G. Wells was one of history's greatest science fiction authors and purveyors of interesting ideas, and the Wellmans ought to be ashamed of how they treat him here.
Sherlock Holmes worked for me (although throwing in that he's been having a long-standing affair with Mrs Hudson, who must be much younger than most people portray her), but Dr Watson is almost a cartoon.
I never saw Watson as stupid, just constantly feeling a few steps behind his more intelligent companion.I also would have liked a little more deviation from the WotW plotline, not simply inserting characters into what was in the original book.
I just would have liked to have seen something a little deeper, with a little more originality put in.
I enjoyed this pastiche of Sherlock Holmes and H.G. Wells' War of the Worlds.
The authors also use Wells' short story The Crystal Egg as a device for Holmes to actually see the impending invasion from Mars.
Another of Doyle's characters, Professor Challenger, also plays a key role in the novel and both he and Holmes use the crystal egg to spy on the aliens and later communicate with them.
The story follows Wells novel but has Holmes, Challenger, and Dr. Watson inserted into the action and at the end they make several conclusions about the invaders that were not drawn by Wells in his version.
At the close of last year, I decided to re-read Wells' 'War of the Worlds'and 'the Crystal Egg', as well as delve into some Professor Challenger stories and few of Doyle's ghost stories.
Truthfully, I wasn't impressed the first time I read this; it seemed far too centered on Challenger and not enough on Holmes (and Holmes' deductive skills).
Not so the second time around.
But this ended as the more intellectual version of the invasion, with Challenger, Holmes, and even Watson combining their impressive 'rationalising' to a satisfying and quite humorous finale.
