https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81035.Saints_and_Strangers
Overall, the collection is the sum of its parts, in the case of "Overture and Beginners" (a story about a golden hermaphrodite), it's even more than the sum of its body parts.The Protracted Childhood of Lizzie BordenLizzie Borden, the focus of the story  “The Fall River Axe Murders’, is “a motherless child, orphaned at two years old, poor thing.”Lizzie’s natural father, Old Borden, remarried, though Lizzie and her stepmother did not get on:“This stepmother oppressed her like a spell.”Not even her father could protect her from such a spell, despite his material generosity:“He would give his Lizzie anything, anything in the world that lives under the green sign of the dollar.”Though a devout Christian, her father was an undertaker, a capitalist, a slum landlord, a materialist, dedicated to the Protestant (work) ethic:“Morose and gaunt, this self-made man is one of few pleasures.
Carter and Davenport have magic time-piercing eyes, and pungent erotic styles.
Davenport seems generally homoerotic - lots of Puckish fauns with “piss-burnt” drawers and uncontrollable erections; Carter ranges everywhere: Baudelairan voyeurism and interracial fetishism; physically chaste but mentally morbid Romantic idealism; the “whorled flesh” of a feral wolf-girl’s unconsciously exposed sex (Dr. Itard and Victor “the wolf-boy of Aveyron” loom behind the professor-and-ward couple in Davenport’s “The Death of Picasso”); and the changeling child from A Midsummer-Night's Dream imagined as a glimmering hermaphrodite yogi holding a tree pose behind Titania’s force field, “provoking desire on all sides yet myself transcendent, the unmoved mover, the still eye of the tempest, exemplary and self-sufficient, the beginning and the end.”
I have not actually read this book, but one particularly angst-filled mid-90's summer of my adolescence I found myself next to a bonfire after, I believe, a particularly angst-filled mid-90's community production of "Little Shop of Horrors." Some girl or something was around the party somewhere, and I could only assume at the time that she was french-kissing madly with some lucky schmuck who (of course) was probably getting to touch her boobs.
(Tangent: what I would not give to have touched those boobs.)Point is, they were dark and dangerous times, and for some reason that I really (unironically) cannot explain, I found myself next to that bonfire with a copy of this book in my pocket, along with a pencil.
The title character of the short story Black Venus is a Creole woman called Jeanne Duval, Charles Baudelaire's mistress and muse.Jeanne Duval is not well known, but Angela Carter did her tales so much justice (at least in my opinion)!As much as I enjoy this book, I am not going to claim it is for everyone because I know some people aren't going to like Ms. Carter's story telling and her symbolism, etc.Obviously, Black Venus is my most favorite story among the bunch, I like how it tells the tale of a Creole woman struggling through her harsh life (first as a slave, then a lowly actress/dancer/kept woman) in the 19th century Paris and her stormy romance with Charles Baudelaire, a famous/infamous poet struggling with money problem, health problem and a share of his own instability.
Apart from that, all the eight "pieces" (one cannot call them stories, I think) in this slim volume are delightfully unconventional: subversive, if you like.
The title story, written from the POV of Baudelier's mistress, portrays her as a simple girl, out to make a living on the mean streets.
But I think the gem of the collection is the last story, which delves into the mind of Lizzie Borden.
It is almost like a script, and the story unfolds like a movie in the reader's mind.If you love the English language, this is the book for you.
I've long been an enthusiastic fan of Carter's neo-Gothic/fairy tale collection The Bloody Chamber and I'd browsed through some of her other short stories as well, always finding them fascinating.
Despite the Po-Mo techniques and obvious sociopolitical significance of Carter's voice as a woman writer, however, the heart of her tales, for me, lies deeper, in her individual imagination and ability to conjure up tales from whatever materials--fairy tales, Gothic, her favorite authors' lives, famous murderers, or even Prokofiev's little ditty about a boy not afraid of wolves.
Ocho historias absorbentes. Resiliencia, carácter, orgullo y obsesión, narrados de forma magistral.
Darling Angela,Where have you been all my life?
This is the short story collection I would have written were I British, white, blonde, and (sadly) dead.
Carter is a so-called postmodern writer, but with a very traditionally sick way of writing, who takes on fairytales and historical oddities with a candid delicacy.
Absolutely lovely.Her version of Lizzie Borden and her world is so tactical I was stuck in soot-filled New England for a night, hardly able to breath and looking over my shoulder.
And I can smell the desire in Shakespeare's forest.I forced time into my un-giving schedule to read this short collection.
Put it on your reading list!
Strange selection of stories. My favourite was the reimagining of Lizzie Borden and the days leading up to the Axe Murders. The other stories were too odd. Angela Carter is quite a controversial writer and I'm not sure if I liked this as much as I had dearly hoped.
More when I have time, but for now, I loved this book. I see much more Angela Carter in my near future. While all of the stories are very good, her "Black Venus" just blew me away, along with "The Cabinet of Edgar Allan Poe," and "The Fall River Axe Murders."
No words. My favourite book of 2018.
Przeczytane niemal jednym tchem, opowiadania Angeli Carter mnie autentycznie zachwyciły. To jest autorka, która od lat byłą gdzieś na granicach tego, co chciałam przeczytać, przewijała się na listach polecanych mi powieści, była podpowiadana przez znajomych. Sięgnęłam po jej teksty dopiero teraz - i szczerze żałuję, że nie wcześniej. Jej sposób pisania o ludziach, o erotyzmie i emocjach, metoda, jaką posługuje się przy przetwarzaniu tradycyjnych opowieści i wątków, trafiają dokładnie w moje własne literackie gusta i zamiłowania. Z całą pewnością będę wracać do tego tomiku - i na pewno chcę więcej.
Angela Carter certainly has way with words - the language she uses a lot of times veers on bawdy, yet it always remains beautiful.
I wasn't as captivated by Black Venus as I was by The Bloody Chamber, but it is a great collection of short stories.
I usually have a lot trouble with the short story format - it's not my favorite for sure - but Angela Carter's short stories hide whole worlds within them.
Black Venus, the title story, The Cabinet of Edgar Allan Poe and The Fall River Axe Murders, the Lizzie Borden story, alone make this short story collection well-worth picking up.
Perhaps, perfect child of the Frigidaire, you've known none of all this!" One does not eat after reading "The Fall River Axe Murders." But perhaps that is a point of Carter's, that there is so much eating in this short story, of food that is utterly vile.
To say that Carter's "The Fall River Axe Murders" is about Lizzie Borden is incorrect.
Much like we, upon telling our own versions of Lizzie Borden's story, would pick and choose for our desired outcomes.
What I do know from "The Fall River Axe Murders" is that it cemented my love for Angela Carter's work.
She explores interesting themes and writes fascinating stories but often I find they end abruptly and I am left wondering what she was trying to do.
Sometimes I am just not in the mood for them.Consequently I have had mixed feelings about the stories in this collection.
"The Kiss" was a great, parable like tale and I also found much to enjoy in "Our Lady of the Massacre", "Peter and the Wold" and "The Fall River Axe Murders".
Others I struggled to engage with as strongly.Overall I think I enjoyed 'The Bloody Chamber' more and I'm not sure if I will pursue any of her other works.
All but two of these stories are stellar, my particular favourites being the sideways-prequel to Midsummer Night's Dream and the terrifying, Derridean take on Lizzie Borden, positing that the axe murders were inescapable for everyone involved, because they were iconic and historic even before they occurred. No writer stimulates my mind like Angela Carter does. She is endlessly fascinating, exciting, exhausting and entertaining.
I'm not going to give this a star rating right now as I'm unsure what I think of it. Angela Carter's writing is beautiful but her stories are just really not for me - too much graphic and/or sexual content unfortunately.
Yeah, quite good in that sometimes gross and sexual way Carter has. I mean that lovingly. The stories are unique and the writing, well, she is very eloquent even while disturbing you.
I came for the Lizzie Borden story, stayed for all the rest!
Black Venus - Revised Mythsby Helen HagemannI first read Angela Carter at university, and was struck immediately by the engrossing tales and characters she could evoke; as if this kind of writing was a rebirth of Edgar Allan Poe. Of course, I was reading her novella "Love" about a fatal love triangle in provincial Bohemia.
This review mainly focuses on one particular story from Black Venus, The Fall River Axe Murders.
Nevertheless, The Fall River Axe Murders  is an intriguing depiction of Lizzie Borden, her sister Emma, Old Borden and Mrs Borden.
And this kettle was stowed way up high on the mantleshelf so I could snooze there snug and warm out of harm's way, soothed by the delicious odours and appetising sounds of the preparation of nourishment, and there I cooed my way through babyhood above that kitchen as if I were its household deity high in my tiny shrine.
This collection was my first exposure to Angela Carter's great stories, back in 1989.
Since I'm teaching her this term, I will shortly get reacquainted with her work.
My favorite story in this collection is "The Cabinet of Edgar Allan Poe," a metafictional trip into the mind of Poe.
"Black Venus," which deals with Charles Baudelaire's black mistress Jeanne Duval, is also notable.
"Peter and the Wolf" hearkens back to her earlier collection, THE BLOODY CHAMBER, which are adult, often erotic versions of familiar fairy tales--well worth looking up, too.
I don't know why people don't enjoy the stories in this book; they are all strong, oblique narratives that carry startling revelations at the core.
Personally I like short stories that give me a little jolt, and Carter is brilliant at slowly undressing her ideas from all the layers of language that she manages to put up around them.
However, I did get the feeling that she was holding back a bit with these stories.
Angela Carter at full-speed is a force to be reckoned with.
My favorite collection of Angela Carter stories that includes the fantastic The Fall River Axe Murders, which brings the semi-conscious blood-dripping Lizzie Borden back to life and places her, axe in hand, in the decaying environment that will facilitate her meteoric rise as murderess extraordinaire. Angela Carter is one of the authors that made me fall in love with language and how it can be used to create remarkably vibrant exquisite set pieces that delve into our deepest joys and fears. Love love love love it!
Angela Carter is a dark god who simultaneously scares the crap out of me and makes me want to invite her over for tea. The first story, "The Fall River Axe-Murders" about Lizzie Borden and the stifling oppression of women (specifically "old maids") in a puritanical/ patriarchical society will make your head spin in fear and delight!
Question: What would happen if a mad scientist were to mix Shirley Jackson and Joyce Carol Oates' molecules in a test tube? Answer: Angela Carter ...I've never been able to read anything else she ever wrote. It was too disturbing.
Disappointing. Not Angela Carter's best. The only story that really stood out to me was the one about Lizzie Borden, and even that I felt had more potential than what she coaxed out of it. Clarity is too often sacrificed for (truly) poetic prose.
Excellent retellings of fairy tales and other famous stories. My favorite is the short story based on the Lizzie Borden murders.
Loved it all - except 'Black Venus', which was incredibly hard to follow in places.
Equally, it could have been the maid...Carter’s rendition does not concentrate on the action of the murders or the trial afterwards; instead it’s a character study,(view spoiler)[ painting the father and stepmother as the evil king and queen cast in a fairy tale, and the favourite daughter, Lizzie, as a repressed creature with flights of fancy and moments of disconnect, trying on her wardrobe and fantasising about strange men watching the house, who hates being locked up in Bluebeard’s castle and despises her father for killing her precious pigeons and her stepmother for wanting to cook them.She doesn’t weep, this one, it isn’t her nature, she is still waters, but, when moved, she changes colour, her face flushes, it goes dark, angry, mottled red.
