https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92162.Russka
With the risk of sounding like an old, broken record to those who follow my reviews and have read my commentaries on Rutherfurd's books, I must say (for the millionth time) that he creates people that live right in front of our eyes.
Each story-chapter is a small literary treasure, a necessary piece to the beautiful Russian tapestry he has created, but there are some that simple stand out.
A wonderful journey in the life of the Cossacks, during a tumultuous era in Russian history and the influence of Poland in the religious and political issues of the country.
One of the richest historical tapestries written in the 20th century bringing Russian pre-revolution
I read this in 1992 when I was a very bored, unchallenged high school student. I got lost in the epic, sweeping tale and the history of the region. This book, above all other influences, is what propelled me to become an exchange student. Thanks to The Next Best Book Club in the thread, What books do you miss, for reminding me how much I wish I could recapture that complete absorption that happens when you read the right book at the right time.
I have been caught up in other books and so it has kept me away from reading this one.
Perhaps because I don't know the history of Russia as well to be able to put myself into the book.
I feel there was more history and character development in this one than in Sarum and I liked it better.
It didn't have that dragging feeling when things were described...kind of like Tolkiens writing patterns in LOTR.
I enjoyed the family stories/connections and I loved reading about the history of Russia.
I am so glad I finished reading this book.
Perhaps some of the disappointment comes from the fact that this is a novel about Russia written by a non-Russian author.
With a span like that, it's hard to keep a consistent plot, and certainly the characters bear no relation to each other, other than the fact that they all live in the same place.This novel is the story of a fictional town called Russka.
Actually, it's the story of two fictional towns called Russka.
For those of us who actually enjoy Russian novels with their profound characters and plot twists, this novel about Russia is so very much not like that.
But nonsensical mistakes and unrealistic details in the last chapter of the book devoted to the Soviet and post Soviet times made it impossible for me to give it more than two stars -- "it was OK" (A few examples: 1)"how nice, for the first time there will be no military parade on May day" -- there has never been a military parade on May day (May 1st).
3)People in Moscow in 1990s worrying about bad quality of food because of Chernobyl -- absolute nonsense.
There are enough well written plots here for five excellent books, but because of the gigantic goal the end result is gigantic but imperfect.
I wasn't sure about the format, which is best described as ten novellas and three short stories, following two families (and their offshoots) through hundreds of years.
This book is said to "cover 1800 years of Russian history." Technically that's true, but after the first 42 pages (in paperback) set in 180, the narrative leaps on to the 11th century...
Yeah, those final 15 are set in 1992.) In the first half the book, skipping hundreds of years between chapters is the norm, but in the second half, time slows down and we meet every generation of the families in question.
¡Hermosa novela!...¡sublime!....Nunca imaginé tanta riqueza, tanta cultura, tantos contrastes.Me fascinó y disfruté mucho de este fantástico viaje por la historia y la geografía de la mágica Russka.Me imagino en San Petesburgo, disfrutando del increíble espectáculo de sus noches blancas, tomando un rico té del tradicional samovar y escuchando la armoniosa melodía de la balalaika rusa....¡Quiero disfrutar ese momento!
ISBN 0804109729 - It's unavoidable that Rutherfurd be compared to Michener; their styles are similar, their books tend to be EPIC NOVELS and they both like one-word place-name titles.
It is a novel, meant to entertain - dissecting it as if Rutherfurd had marketed it as a textbook is a ridiculous sort of snobbery.Russka is set in two towns of the same name in Russia over a period of 1800+ years.
That the years from 1918 onward are condensed into a very small percentage of the book is a gift - we've been reading that history for decades, we know those stories.
Unfortunately, it just didn't scratch my itch.I love to learn about history through well-written, mostly accurate, historic fiction like Bernard Cornwell's Saxon Chronicles or the novels of Ken Follett.
The early stories had more of a feeling of folk tales or fables - which seems an appropriate way to present a period prior to written history.
Rutherfurd managed to insert bits of historic facts and excessive geographic details into the fable-like narratives.
But, the stories told in Russka seemed TOO far removed from the significant historic events, and there are huge sections of time that are just skipped over.
Prelepo.
RTC
This is a typical Rutherfurd book in that it spans many centuries following the same families.
I am also fascinated with Russian history and I found the first part of the book very interesting.
For some reason this book didn't engage me as much as some of his others.
I also thought that one of the more interesting periods in modern history for Russia (i.e. the last 60 years) was not explored much at all, but became just a bit of a footnote to the book which is a shame.Still worth the read if you don't mind an epic family saga and enjoy Russian history
Like Edward Rutherfurd's other books, Russka focuses on one place, and tells its story through the centuries.
His books are series of interconnected short stories, which are set in different eras of history.
I've read and enjoyed all of Edward Rutherfurd's books, but I have to say that Russka isn't up to his usual standard.
Russka is a fictional village in Russia, so in this book Edward Rutherfurd tells the story of Russia.
It's just speculation on my part, but I wonder if that might be because Edward Rutherfurd himself didn't know as much about Russia as he did about the settings of his other books?

I read London first and thought I enjoyed it because I knew the city, similarly with Sarum and had, kind of, assumed that you could really only appreciate books if you had some knowledge of the area.
I haven't found this the case at all - as long as you have an interest in the world around you I think that you can enjoy all of Rutherfurd's books.
Always written in the same style - a key group of families and we follow them through the development and history of an area.
Written in a way that is accessible, enjoyable and well researched historically.
This time, he has chosen to take on the geographically mighty Russia, telling its history from the second century AD through to 1990 and the end of Communism.If you have read at least one of his works, you know what go expect.
I find that he makes a habit of this sometimes, creating a mundane story set in what should one of the most interesting periods of the history of the place he covers.We also see the end of the empire and the first stirrings of revolutionary thought from the 1870s.
I am a big fan of Edward Rutherfurd's huge historical epics spanning the history of a place by linking it through the generations of several families.
In Russka, it spans some nearly 2000 years through a sprawling country filled with different peoples and cultures.
Not one of his greatest works in my opinion but still an interesting account of the history of one of the most vast and culturally diverse countries of the world.
Jedna knjiga- jedan potpuno novi svet !
Ruska je knjiga u dva toma, svaka glava je jedan roman.
Ova knjiga prati 1800 godina ruske istorije, kulture i politike, od prvobitnih slovenskih plemena do danasnjih dana.
Ovo je topla prica o jednoj velikoj civilizaciji, ispricana kroz tri ( danasnje) porodice: Romanov, Suvorin i Bobrov.
U nedostatku vremeplova, ova knjiga je najbolja zamena.
Tragala sam za plodnom zemljom sa starim Slovenima, lovila ribu i pravila kosnice, pokrstila se u slavnom Kijevu, bezala od terora Ivana Groznog, jahala kroz beskonacne stepe sa Kozacima, gledala izgradnju Venecije severa i tugovala za poslednjim carem.
Lo compré para entender un poco de la historia y cultura de Rusia antes de visitarla, y fue una agradable sorpresa.
Pese a ser un mamotreto de 1000 páginas, de verdad no se hace para nada pesado sino todo lo contrario, las historias están contadas de forma muy amena y agradable, mezclando la "Historia" con mayúscula, con las pequeñas historias de quienes vivieron y sufrieron las transformaciones de Rusia.
Quedé con gusto a poco porque casi no cubre la segunda mitad del siglo XX que daba para mucho más: la "Gran Guerra Patria", la KGB, el declive y caída de la URSS...
pero en general un muy buen libro y entrega una visión bastante completa.
El libro cuenta la historia de Rusia desde el siglo II a.C hasta finales del siglo XX.
Tampoco habla mucho de la Unión Soviética y prácticamente todo lo que sabemos está escrito en las últimas páginas que narran ya los años 90 y el final del bloque.A pesar de ello, es un libro recomendable para adentrarte en la cultura e historia rusa de forma amena.
Yo por mi parte, tengo intenciones de leer más libros del autor.
After I got to about 350 pages, I had to take a break; Rutherfurd's books are long and slow-going (not in a negative way, though), primarily because the scope is so broad (this one covers 1800 years).
The whole gigantic continent -- the world itself as far as he knew -- was softly melting, snow, earth and air, an eternal process caught, for a moment, in this shining stasis.
The rich black earth -- so rich that the peasants scarcely needed to plow it; the fortress with its stout wooden walls; the subterranean world where the monks like Father Luke had chosen to live, and certainly to die: why it should be so was beyond him, but it was all necessary.
Might be great for someone who loves epic (in time span) stories with deep roots in history, for someone who adores mostly russian but other eastern europeans' culture as well, who finds pleasure in reading really long books so (s)he could take a single book for a few days/weeks long journey...
Yes, I do love world history and stories rooted in important moments or turning points but this book simply had nothing to actually grab me for a longer while at a time - books by Sienkiewicz and even Żeromski are far more interesting ;) The characters here seem to be closer to some romantic Harlequin brand novellas' personae than to many other more adventure oriented stories...
Insightful.
Strangly sad.
Characters I loved and hated.
Laced with universal human truths.
Using a narrative which sweeps through centuries, it becomes easier to understand how communism was a logical next step when it happened.
And the eventual chaos after the collapse of the USSR also becomes easier to understand.
The Eastern persspective was enlightening for me.
I'm saddened by man's inhumanity to man - and mindful that we all particpate in it, no matter what country or time or activity we are involved in.
It left me wondering how it is that humans have such an ability to create both incredible beauty and indescribable hell.Thought proking.
Los personajes son carismáticos, la trama interesante, los enlaces con figuras y períodos históricos reales, lo bastante realistas como para resultar creíbles, en general (que lo sean o no ya es otra cuestión).Tiene algunos problemillas, sí, que eran los que me hacían pensar en darle un 3.5/4: por una parte, Rutherfurd nunca parece tener demasiado claro si está escribiendo una novela, un ensayo histórico, o una guía de viajes, pues cada poco tiempo se embarca en descripciones interminables del paisaje (quizás imposibles de omitir) o en diatribas históricas que no llevan a mucho sitio, incluyendose él mismo en la narración y sacando mucho al lector de la obra.
Like James Michener, Edward Rutherford packs a lot into his historical fiction books. This book spans Russian history from the 1st century through the late-20th century. He does spend quite a bit of time on certain periods and glosses over others. His characters are fleshed out and represent their respective eras. The dialog is spirited and flowing. This is not as good as Sarum but better than most historical novels of this kind. I recommend this book with little reservations.
I loved Edward Rutherford's Sarum. I have tried to finish this book at least 3 times. I wanted to read it, I wanted to learn as much about Russian history as I had about English history.Sorry, the graphic incest just made me sick every time. "Nuf said."
What a book! Russian history is fascinating, and I am amazed how Edward Rutherfurd was able to put it all in a very readable and enjoyable novel. This is a book to read again to capture the many historic details. I loved this book!
a collection of short stories. and a cohesive epic.if you like history... it's worth it.i knew very little of russian history until i read it and it's like a good meaty crash course.
Det er primært den vestlige del af Rusland vi hører om - og ved hjælp af gode markeringer for årsskift kan vi sagtens følge den samme mand fra han er lille dreng til han ligger på sit dødsleje.Afslutningen på bogen er noget af det eneste, der foregår udenfor Russka og Rusland; det foregår i USA, og alligevel formår Rutherfurd, som med alle de andre kapitler, at blande Russka ind i det.
