https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1817999.The_Norths_Meet_Murder
Mrs North being the smarter and more evolved character than her husband comes to the solution with the same knowledge as Wiegand by accident.A nice period mystery for people who enjoy the mysteries from before the big crimelabs and in a more innocent and romantisized setting.Well worth my time and I will probably seek out a later novel to see where the Norths evolved to.
[Pam North]The Norths Meet Murder (1940) is a lovely beginning to Frances & Richard Lockridge's series which features (to varying degrees) Pam and Jerry North as the slightly "screwy," yet classy amateur sleuth husband and wife team and the sharp Lieutenant (later Captain) Bill Weigand and his faithful, often confused sidekick Detective Aloysius Mullins.
This first outing is a bit more police procedural than later installments and we spend a great deal of time following Weigand and Mullins around as they hunt down clues and interview suspects.
Thanks.[Previous mini-review from my pre-blogging days]I love the zany world of Mr. and Mrs. North.
The gang's all here; Pam and Jerry North, of course, Lt Bill Weigand, Detective Mullins, and even Inspector O'Malley makes his appearance.
(I could easily be wrong as long-term memory is fickle.) Everyone smokes, of course, and there is quite a lot of drinking, but mostly this mystery could be set in twenty-first century New York with only a few changes.This first book in the series has somewhat less of the Norths and rather more of Bill Weigand than usual, but the plot doesn't suffer from it, rather it sets up the series for the following books quite nicely.
Whose Body?
meets The Thin Man in this cocktail-soaked mystery of the body in the bath of an uninhabited apartment.
Sadly, the Norths do no real sleuthing, all of which is left to the police--which is normal, I realise, but I had hoped for them to be more involved.
The author catches Pam North's habit of skipping from one thought to another with nothing to connect them, making the text hard to understand in spots--I had to keep going back and re-reading, particularly conversations.
This book is mostly conversation and a character's thought processes.A reasonably good read.
This book was a real slog. I had a hard time finishing it. The probable only way I will continue this series is if I have already bought them, and I feel I have to.
What fun! Very retro and Nick and Nora Charles, with lots of cocktails and a cute pet-Pete the cat rather than Asta the terrier. The charming couple begins their investigative relationship with Lieutenant Weigand in this book, and I understand they are featured more prominently in successive books. This one involved an unidentified body, cheating spouses and, of course, a cocktail party. This was written in 1940 so there is a certain amount of political incorrectness, which is unfortunate. However, I plan to try some of the 25 additional “cases” in this series.
1940, #1 Pam&Jerry North, Lt Bill Weigand NYC PDUpper-middle-class New York City urban sophisticates (1940s style) find a dead man in a bathtub in an empty NY apartment; classic cosy police procedural four stars.
Pam and Jerry play only a smallish part in the story, not appearing except for the set-up at the beginning, several interludes with Weigand, and the finale, a Gather The Suspects party at their apartment, wherein Pam gets to be Female In Jeopardy as both she, and Weigand, come to the same (correct) conclusions from different points of reference.
I've been a fan of Mr. and Mrs.North since I was about 7 years old when I watched the TV series with Richard Denning and Barbara Britton.
The scripts themselves were the "well-made play." packed a lot in in 30 minutes (including commercials) that tied up in the end but had plenty of suspense and action.
This book, the first full-length Mr & Mrs. North novel is the same.
Of course a deus ex machina at the end woud have been stupid and insulting to the reader.
Amazon has quite a few North novels, but they are a bit pricey for Kindle.
I found this book in an antique shop while vacationing in the 1,000 Islands.
The room was full of dusty books that smelt of age but I wanted to buy something anyway so I grabbed this one.
I truly enjoyed the story.
The story took place in NYC in the 1940s and I felt like I was in that time era.
Though, I know that the book was written then and there and its purpose wasn't to try to take me back there.
I couldn't stop reading, by far one of the best books I've ever read!
The Mr. and Mrs. North mysteries are not something that would necessarily appeal to me today, but back in the day - late '60s, early '70s - I loved those books and devoured them like peanuts!
I am a fan of both the radio and tv show, the book did not disappoint. A fun read for any fan of the North"s.
and I vaguely remember seeing the Gracie Allen as Mrs North movie at some point when I was young.
Somehow it didn't dawn on me that they were based on a book series until I was poking around the hoopla app from my library one day.
Jerry and Pam North live in New York City where he works in publishing and she plans parties, shops, has lunch ...
Mrs North, especially, tries to help when she can but it's not like a modern cozy or even a Miss Marple where the police are bumbling about while the amateur woman takes control.Suspects abound and so do red herrings ...
For any reader interested in this series of gentle and slightly comic "classic murder mysteries" I recommend reading them in order.
& Mrs. North literally stumble upon a body -- the fun begins when they start sharing cocktails with the investigating officer.
& Mrs. North stories and even the accomplished police officer in charge of the case doesn't have a problem tipping a few martinis during lunch.
& Mrs. North mysteries from the 1950's----they are not nearly as much fun as the books, but they may be of interest to fans of classic tv programs.
The last third is great!But my, the first two-thirds are oh so long.
The story is told from the perspective of third person incredibly formal narrator.
I think that's part of my problem with it.
By the end of the first chapter I never wanted to read the words Mr. North or Mrs. North again.
The narration is just so very formal and stiff and separate from what's going on around it.
It makes the beginning incredibly slow and, to be honest, fairly boring.
I will be reading more books in the series and hopes that they continue on from that pacing.
This was the second book I read that had a "bathtub murder." I think I had my fill of them. If there is a cover that shows bathtubs, showers, sinks, or anything related to a bath I am staying clear. I thought this novel moved slow , and although there were some chuckles along the way, it just was not enough to go up a star. I felt the writing was not up to par...it was choppy. I didn't feel New York City at all. At one point, it was referred as the "county of New York. Really!
I liked these books when I was in high school (some 40 years ago). The characters don't age well, and I think the fast pace of life today doesn't lend itself to the drawn out dialogue (inner and outer) that is the hallmark of these books.I can't relate to "being really tired" after telling my cook what order things should be in.
"The Norths Meet Murder" is the first book of the classic Mr. and Mrs. North series and I enjoyed for the most part.
The Norths are two lovable characters that I can't wait to read more about their cases later.Unfortunately, I could not give "The Norths Meet Murder" more than a 3-star rating because I read another classic mystery about the police procedural right before it and that classic, to me, was a better representation on using procedural to solve the case.
Even so, "The Norths Meet Murder" was still a light and entertaining read that I think would appeal to any classic mysteries lovers.
First in the Mr. and Mrs. North mystery series set in late 1930s New York City and revolving around a curious couple.
Jerry North is an editor with Kensington & Brown, and Pam North is a housewife.My TakeI suspect my biggest reason for giving Norths Meet Murder a "4" is for the quaintness of it.
Wow, Weigand figures he can probably identify the body by checking through the Clipper Shave Company's warranty records!It's a bit weird with the Norths, especially Mrs. North, involved in finding clues.
The StoryIt's a party that opens up that door to murder and for Jerry and Pam North to meet Lt. Weigand.
Again trying to re-read as much of this series as I can get a hold of. It is just nice to find a well written story with humor. They are really cozy procedurals set in New York City. with everyone drinking martinis plus there are cats....perfect light reading for the summer.
First book in the murder mystery series of Mr. and Mrs. North. I liked the old movies so I thought I would give this a try. Entertaining, wry, hard to figure out. I liked the olden days of NY aspect to it.
I read this very old re-released mystery for my mystery book group. Set in 1930's Greenwich Village, NY and very similar to The Thin Man with Nick and Nora Charles, this has Pam and Jerry North with their cat who attempt to help the police find a murderer.Recommended
Did not finish; the writing, characters, and setting were intriguing -- but in the first few chapters I discovered I was not willing to read about a wealthy white early 20th-century couple . It might be the casual stereotyping (burly dumb Irish cop, surprisingly smart wife, etc.). Gave it up.
Three and a half stars...
Pretty entertaining, though obviously very dated and with racist elements of the time. Whodunnit is not hard to spot.
Dwysngr
I was entertained by the Norths meeting murder. While the plot was somewhat convoluted was interesting reading with interesting characters.
A really good old-fashioned mystery.
I was more impressed by the detective in this series than the Norths, who are featured in following books. I sort of guess the solution half-way through the book but couldn't be sure because of the other red herrings.
This was a fun mystery written in 1940 featuring the Norths, a quirky married couple in New York who stumble across a dead body. They work with the detective to help solve the case. Lots of cocktails help aid the process along. I was surprised to find out that this was the beginning of a long running series. Nice to know I have other books to look forward to.
Love this author. Delightful characters and great story. Dialogue is great and funny. I want to read the whole series.
