https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3828382-tribes
It's been a long time since I've read such a book of nonsense.
I'll save you the time and expense of buying this book.
The message is this: Give your life over to a specific aspect of life, become the go-to person for that niche, be innovative in your use of the internet to spread the word about your masterfulness.I cannot for the life of be believe this book became the hot commodity that it is -- except for the fact that too many people are looking for an easy way to become well known.
The book is drivel.
This book will make you want to go out and change the world.It's a powerful reminder that what we call "marketing" is really just doing something that you believe in passionately and then sharing that passion with other people, getting them to believe in you as well. There are all sorts of ideas and causes around which we might organize--but in order to do it, we need to be out there, making things happen because we refuse to live with the fear that we can't.
So far, not too impressed. The author stays just on the surface and hasn't said anything new or thought-provoking (so far). It would be a better book if it were more focused and had depth, but it seems to be just a repackaging of what's already out there and trendy in the business/marketing world.
He says nothing new or interesting but cloaks it in his own personal jargon (a sure sign that you are reading a self help book is the liberal use of phrases that the author thinks make him sound original but which do little but turn me off to the book) and examples of innovators within internet culture that have only the most tenuous of connections to the point that Godin is trying to make.It’s not even structured in an enjoyable way.
Perhaps before LEADING his TRIBE, Godin should invest in some writing classes.
From the outset, I should make it clear that I only made it about a third of the way through Tribes before closing it for good.
So, what follows is only based on what is in that first third of the book.Seth Godin's 'Tribes' is possibly the worst business-type book I've ever read.
Leaders need followers, and the push for every one of us to be a leader would inevitably lead to a situation where nothing is done because each of us is only focused on our own agenda.The biggest flaw, however, is that if you truly are a leader you really shouldn't need this kind of "call-to-arms" to get you fired up - you already should be.
What it comes down to is your willingness to believe you can lead and your acceptance that most folks are sheepwalking.
He explains from his point of view why companies large and small and the individuals within fight to maintain the status quo.
But more than that, there are hit home examples of where this leads.
Where this hits home for most folks though will be those of you in big industry and being cube warriors.
Are you sheepwalking or can you break free and lead?
Note, if you've not enjoyed other Seth Godin books, this won't be for you either.
Seth Godin is an inspiration to an entire generation of people, many of which spend a large portion of their day in front of a computer for both fun AND profit.This book Tribes, is the best book on leadership, social change and creating a movement that I have read.
A book that SCREAMS to be highlighted and written in and talked about.
Extremely short chapters that pack a punch, this is a must read for anyone with a burning desire for change who just needs the little push to get beyond the fear.Excellent work.I am now going to read it again and really start loving this book (by highlighting, post-it noting and writing all over it!)
Bentleys are among the best-built cars in the world (you're not just paying for exorbitant luxury, you're paying for top-of-the-line, state-of-the-art engineering) and will last longer than any Toyota could ever hope to!Such incorrect, poorly informed statements are common enough from Mr. Godin that I've come to expect them more often than not.More often than not, I find his pronouncements irritatingly condescending.Bottom line - he's not as insightful as everyone tells him he is, and he doesn't know nearly as much about things outside his specific area of expertise as he thinks he does.This is a very good book - but I can't get past my personal problems with the author when I read it.
This book sounded more like a self-help, ra-ra you-can-do-it diatribe than it is a how-to book.As usual, it's sprinkled with many anecdotes of little and unheard of people and companies , which as Godin asserts, are leaders in their own right.
Is this a sign of leadership or fiction?That the book is split into tiny sections throughout, with random (not entirely sure it's related) sub-topics, almost suggests lack of things to write from the author.This book, in my opinion, will never be a classic like Permission Marketing.
I fear that Godin might turn the same like Trout/Ries, trying to squeeze out books every other year, each worse than before.
This was an interesting mix of self-help/motivational leadership stuff with a bit of insight about how tribes are now forming. I liked it best when Godin talked about the nature of how tribes interact,especially when he explained the difference between how things used to be and how they are now. The motivational cheerleading seemed a bit inauthentic. I mean, he would write things like "you should be leading..." and I would just think, How do you know? You don't know me.
Vague, repetitive, and cocky without the substance to back it up. Not bad ideas necessarily but the book alienated me.
Seth Godin in Tribes presents a different model for growing and marketing - inspiring movements rather than building organisations.
As an indie (or hybrid) author, there are 'take-home' points that can apply - especially the ideas of that of building a tribe rather than a scatter-gun approach, and that connection is more important than numbers.
Godin doesn't provide 'how-tos', rather he shares the concepts (repetitively even is a small book), and gives multiple potted case studies to prove his point.
I think who or what you place your faith does actually matter.
I think if you come to this book expecting a sold 'how-to' you will be disappointed.
Great stuff from Seth Godin. The significance of creating a tribe for any movement (and then connecting and progressing it).
It includes: authentic generosity, balloon factories (and unicorns), charisma, criticism, curiosity (vs fundamentalism), heresy (vs status quo), faith (vs religion), remarkability (vs fear), leadership/empowerment (vs sheepwalking, vs participation, vs management), micromovement, passion (vs bureaucracy), reinvention (vs perfection), thermostat (vs thermometer), tribe (vs factory), yes/no (vs not yet) -- words which will now have a refreshed home in my vocabulary.Paraphrasing some of the most resonant excerpts:- Capitalize on a non-obvious moment/opportunity; get there first.- Recipe for starting a micromovement: manifesto, connectablity, money is not the point, track progress.- Persuasion: don't start with opposition, seek the uncommitted passionates.- Help your tribe sing, whatever form that song takes.- Elements of leadership: challenge status quo, create culture, be charismatic, communicate vision, connect.- "I started a newsletter..."I appreciate that Seth's content is not simply borrowed or extended from his blog, but enters fresh in his books.
What Tribes lacks in sophistication and documentation it makes up for with anecdotes and elegance.
The book is filled with rarely articulated common sense observations.
Godin's exploration of 21 Century leadership takes the time to make connections between school and lack of leadership.
So why does it surprise us that we graduate so many sheep?"While this kind of observation is in plain sight, few actually see it, and even fewer bother to articulate it.
Tribes is filled with these types of nuggets.
If you are in any type of leadership position - read this now - it is short, silly and smart!Bahhhhhhh...
I have to say that I was very disappointed in this outing by Seth Godin. I've read most of his work since Permission Marketing and found this to be one of the weakest. The book is primarily a call to arms for those in larger organizations who fear taking the lead within those organizations. Very little of it is truly about "Tribes" and how they impact business which is what I thought I was getting.
The author called it. Near the end, he says that some people will criticize this book for not being cohesive enough. I am that person. This was a series of paragraphs collected into one binding. Less a book, more a collection of really short essays. A few of the paragraphs were really good, but most were forgettable to me.
Seth Godin provides a call to action for anyone who wants to fill the void, regardless of your current station in life.The focus is on "tribes" which the author defines as a group of individuals who share a common interest along with a way to communicate with one another.
Tribes need leadership.
That is the author's call-to-action.I'm a fan of Seth Godin.
It is a small book and easy to read.
And it's possible you missed the checklists, the detailed how-to lists, and the For Dummies- style instruction manual that shows you exactly what to do to find a tribe and lead it.Yeah Seth, I did miss the checklists.
This is second Seth Godin book I have read this year.
It seems as repetitive and hollow as the previous one.
In Tribe, he repeats same thing, only with one additional fact, that you could lead a tribe.
For example, Apple employees are a tribe, Grateful Dead is a tribe.
As always book is peppered with example, famous ones and iconic ones.
But none of it in this book reaches out to you since this was just meant to be a 500 or 1000 word article and not an insipid book with repeats same thoughts over and over again.
While the book is small and in some ways lightweight, it also manages to be deeply engaging. In essence it's a rant to get you off your ass and do what you love to do and inspire others to follow. It's about true leadership, not about being a boss or a manager, but a leader.
However, when someone is a true leader they are not going to reach each and every single person instantly; it takes time to build a fan base and eventually, when you create or come up with an idea that appeals to people in their own, personal lives, your fan base will continue to grow well after your book hits the New York Times best seller list.Tribes was recommended to me by a business colleague of mine and the day I heard about it and about how inspired and motivated it made her feel after reading it, I ordered it that same day.
People want to be sure you heard what they said—they’re less focused on whether or not you do what they said.So great leaders don’t try to please everyone.
Instead, they realize that a motivated, connected tribe in the midst of a movement is far more powerful than a larger group could ever be.The first thing a leader can focus on is the act of tightening the tribe.It’s tempting to make the tribe bigger, to get more members, to spread the word.
The movement happens when people talk to one another, when ideas spread within the community, and most of all, when peer support leads people to do what they always knew was the right thing.Great leaders create movements by empowering the tribe to communicate.
I have a friend who drank the Godin kool-aid and devotes his time trying to get others to drink it.
I finally caved and checked out Tribes, which was featured on a list of Godin's "best works" and sounded interesting to me.
If you like Godin's punchy style, you'll love this.
I took a few notes, mostly near the end when he starts organizing the ideas into practical lists.
Otherwise, I'm still here trying to figure out why my friend loves Godin so much.
If you love Godin, you'll love it.
What the shit?I've heard a lot of people talking about the concept of "Tribes" as it relates to this book, so I thought I'd go straight to the source and see what the fuss is about.Within the first few pages, Godin outlines what it means to form a tribe:- Be passionate about something- Use the internet to connect with people who are passionate about the same thing- Don't manage them.
- Now you are a hugely influential person who gets shit done.After laying that framework out, I expected the book to start going into more detail on each point.
I understand the comparison he is trying to make, however please don’t buy in to that notion that we don’t need managers —he is dead wrong.I listened to this on audio first, and when I saw the hardcover in the bookstore I was very disappointed at the quick-publish/ quick-buck nature of it...
no table of contents, no index, no front-matter or back-matter frills at all except the acknowledgement pages...
Не, не, в никакъв случай, просто харесвам Сет Годин като блогър и преди няколко години се подведох, че може би и книгите му са добри.
И точно тук сбърках, защото Сет Годин не става за "маркетинг писател".
Трябваше да прочета 4 негови книги, за да съм абсолютно убедена, че той повтаря едно и също и не, че не казва нищо, но да речем, че повече пали фойерверки, отколкото обогатява с твърди познания.
Което е супер, когато списва блог, но не и когато продава издания с твърди корици.
Затова ще продължа да следя sethgodin.typepad.com и да препоръчвам "Малкото е новото голямо", която събира негови блог публикации и е върховна.
This was awful. It lacked cohesion and a strong point. If you want a rah rah cheer book to help motivate you to do something this might be for you. But don't expect any advise on what actually do do or what situations you might find yourself in, or how the tribe mentality might be beneficial or harmful in various situations. Or basically anything useful or terribly interesting.
This is that kind of a book which will tickle your nerves to change the world. This book is best on leadership and creating a change. The book is short yet leaves a very powerful thoughts. We all belong to several tribes and all we have to do is select and lead one. Seth Godin calls it as “Call to action”. Well written and explained. I give this book a 4 star.
The great thing is that it is narrated by the author which feels like you're having a one-to-one conversation with a wise and passionate soul.
Not only that, but you feel like you are being coached personally.
The whole book is directed to focus on the idea of 'The Choice to Lead' and how this choice is in most cases is what's preventing us from making big change wherever we are.
One insight that was thought triggering for me was the reminder that if you are seeking perfection you are always avoiding change because change is new , change is a prototype, if you focus on perfecting it you will miss the new 'new'.
I was expecting a book along the lines of Malcolm Gladwell's "The Tipping Point" or even "Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations" by Amy Chua... An intelligent perspective laced with insight on the nature of leadership.What I got was, just another boilerplate business-motivation self help book for middle managers to listen to pump up. Cheesy dialogue laced with tired comments on finding opportunity. It serves a valuable purpose ot providing a new perspective, but aside from that? Disappointing.
