https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835010.The_Keeping_Quilt
I love this picture book biography about a family and their quilt.The illustrations are wonderful.
The quilt and its dress and babushka that went into making it, are shown in glorious color; the rest of the illustrations are done in charcoal.
It starts when the author’s great grandmother came to America and how as she outgrew her dress, that dress and her headscarf were used, along with other family members’ items, were used to make a quilt.
The story follows this quilt down generations of the family.
It’s the story of a family and how it grows and changes with each generation but how the quilt ties them all together.
This is a lovely true story about family tradition as the quilt, made from an immigrant daughter's outgrown babushka, is passed down through the generations, making appearances at many important events.
Polacco shows how religion and culture have evolved some through the generations of Jewish marriages down to Polacco's own.
I appreciate the idea of the illustrations with the quilt being the only thing in color, though I'm not sure the overall illustrations really wowed me.
However, I think this book will be very touching for anyone who has appreciated a treasured family heirloom and known the value in its ties to tradition.
“The Keeping Quilt” is a beautiful picture book by Patricia Polacco that details the life story of Patricia Polacco’s family that has emigrated from Russia and how her Great Gramma Anna passed down her precious quilt to her children for four generations and has remained to be a wonderful treasure to her entire family.
“The Keeping Quilt” is truly one of the best books written by Patricia Polacco ever written!Patricia Polacco’s Great-Gramma Anna emigrated from Russia many years ago and when she went to school, she took her blue dress and her babushka (even though I am sure that “babushka” means “grandmother” in Russian).
I first read this book years ago in a multicultural education course I took as an undergrad.
I was brought to tears in a hot summer classroom full of bored college kids but I was in awe then and reading it now, I was brought to tears again.
“The Keeping Quilt” was able to bring me to tears as a mother because there is something about sharing a quilt or any object across several generations that warms the soul.
Limiting the color to just the quilt was a great strategy; otherwise readers could get distracted by all the other lovely people and objects in the illustrations.
The story’s plot articulates the use of old clothing and materials people of the family brought together in order to create a quilt.
From scraps of clothing to babushka dolls, the quilt was sewed together to be used by the family during different events in their lifetimes such as gatherings, engagements, weddings, births and deaths.
“The Keeping Quilt” certainly allows the reader to step into an unfamiliar culture and exposes us to the traditions of a family full of love.
Patricia Polacco gives the reader examples of how other cultures may celebrate specific events such as engagements.
We really enjoy Patricia Polacco's stories and so we look for them often at our local library.
The illustrations are an unusual mix of black and white with spots of color, usually featuring the quilt or material that helped to make the quilt.
The story is quite emotional in several spots and the people are often very expressive.
We really enjoyed reading this book together and we will certainly look for more of her books at our local library.
This story was selected as one of the books for the December 2012 - Warm Quilts and Soft Mittens reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Patricia Polacco read this book to me at the IRC luncheon Saturday, March 21, 2009.
The red babushka highlighted on the cover and the red fabric throughout the book chronicles the life of the quilt and the life of the family.
Listening to Polacco read this book to us was like going back to our own mothers and grandmothers, smelling their cooking, paying attention to their admonitions, and listening to their stories.
The tone of this book, whether I read it myself, or I listen to Patricia Polacco read it is one of quiet, nostalgic, reflection.
A story about the immigration of Ms. Polacco's relatives from Russia and how a quilt made from worn out clothes brings the memory of far off relatives closer and binds them all together - Interesting use eof color for the quilt while other illustrations are in browns
Lovely story. My kids were inspired to start a Keeping Quilt of our own:
I absolutely adored the colorful animals and flowers that were appliqued on this quilt!
I did adore the evolution of fashion with each flip of a page.I'm also split on the way in which Polacco told her story.
I appreciated the Jewish traditions---love the quilt as a huppa---but there must have been some Russian influence on it all!??
Or did I just not notice...?I wish that Polacco had been more clear about Great-Gramma Anna's age when she first arrived in America---as well as a re-wording of "Great-Grandpa Sasha" with whom she fell in love.
The story is of the narrator's great-grandma (Anna).
She also took the babushka, and old pieces of clothing from her family members.
Anna and her mother made a quilt, to remind them of home.
The edges of the quilt were from Anna's babushka.
On Fridays, the quilt was the table cloth for the sabbath.
She used it at night, and her mother would tell her which piece of cloth belonged to which family member.
The red of the babushka and the blue of the dress are the only colors until the quilt is made.
The quilt serves as many things, including a tablecloth and as a wedding huppa."The Keeping Quilt" follows the outlines of a historical fiction story correctly, as it addresses the impact of themes on the characters, such as keeping traditions and passing them on from generation to generation.
Then in the following images after, aspects of the quilt are highlighted through shading of colors for more sophistication and importance of content.
The visual elements bring not only the characters to life, but the quilt to life as well.
I think that this book would be beneficial when teaching about different cultures.
It is primarily related to Jewish culture, but it could teach students the importance of different traditions, customs and ways of life that contribute to families from various backgrounds.
The pictures on each page were black and white, however, the features that the author felt were important or wanted to emphasize were in color.
Another reason I felt this was a wow book was that I could really feel the passion the author has for her family and her culture.
It opened my mind up more to the Russian culture.
I love the way book showed many things about the way eat, celebrate, family traditions, and so much more throughout four generations.
I also love how the book showed how these things can change throughout the years of each generation, yet they somehow hold on to some of the traditions.
The quilt that was made by the great grandmother was a huge asset to the story to show how they held on to what was most important to them which was their original home in Russia.
This story is about a family tradition with quilt making.
This Russian family created a quilt with all their keepsakes to pass down from generation to generation.
The family members used many different items that had important value to them to create the quilt.
This quilt was used during many celebrations in the family as a tradition.
This story is fictionalized family history because we learn about this Russian family's tradition of quilt making and celebrating.
I think this book was written to celebrate the culture and to celebrate the traditions family's hold dear to them.
Anna came from Russia with her family to live a new and different life away from their past.
Feeling out of place and missing home, Anna and her family make a quilt from various pieces of clothing from each member of the family.
When the quilt was finished, a new family tradition started.
From then on out, every mother would pass down this quilt to their daughters, experiencing different events throughout each generation.
This highlights the importance and happiness that simple family traditions can provide, even when you are far away from home.
Love it, love it, love it! This is Patricia Polacco's story of her family's "keeping quilt" passed from generation to generation. An absolute treasure.
This is a heartwarming story of a family that immigrates to the United States, but needs a way to keep the family in Russia close at heart.
The story starts with Anna’s family comes to New York, the new life they are beginning.
As Anna grows she grows out of the dress and babushka, so they decide to use the clothes of other family members in Russia with Anna’s stuff to make a blanket.
This Russian family could never return to Russia so they found a way to keep home close.The story is about immigration and the adventure that came with traveling to a new country.
This book started of with the story of how the author's great grandma came to America.
The quilt carried memories through all the years and kept the story of the great grandmother's first love alive.This book portrayed the generation of immigrants in the family's lineage.
It made a lot of good points and it made me had to think about the family lineage, like was that the great grandmother or the great great grandmother.
The author had family from many parts of the world and therefore wanted to share some of the stories that were told to her.
This book is about a family quilt, which is made from a basket of old clothes of several family members from many generations.
The quilt represents the importance of family and heritage, as tells the story of the importance of the quilt, and all the events for which is has been a part (Sabbaths, weddings, births) as it has been passed along from mother to daughter through four generations for almost a century.
It also shows the importance and comfort that is brought by finding ways to share life and important events with the people that you love, even if they are not able to be there physically.
A homemade quilt represents a Jewish family who emigrated from Russia to New York more than 100 years ago.
The quilt is used to mark special life events such as births, weddings, birthdays, and the passing of elders.
The quilt owner is the historian of all the family stories and the quilt serves as visual remembrance of those who came before.
The story’s theme teaches of family traditions and the quilt, a very special family heirloom that is handed down through the generations.
As each generation becomes more Americanized, the traditions remain the same; yet subtle changes are added by each bride.
I believe this book is great for a 4th grade class.
This picture book would be great for teaching students about culture, and about being accepting of others.
I think I could use this book in my instruction by reading it to my class in a read aloud, and then discussing what tradition and culture mean as a group.
I would have students share their stories, and I would make a book out of all of the stories to keep in class.
"The Keeping Quilt" was a WOW book for me because the importance of tradition really stood out in the words and illustrations.
Polacco, Patricia, The Keeping Quilt.
Anna, a young Russian Jewish girl, comes to the USA with her family.
When she outgrows her dress that she used to wear on their farm in Russia, her mother comes up with the idea of using the material from the dress and shawl to make a quilt.
The quilt is then passed on from generation to generation on the maternal line, and is present at important (be they joyful or sorrowful) events in the life of the family.
The Keeping Quilt teaches people not to forget where they came from, as well as the importance of community.
The Keeping Quilt was about a story of a family moving to the United States.
They missed their life back home so they decided to make a quilt of some of their memories so they could always remember a piece of their lives back there.
The quilt consisted of all different things from old clothing, etc.
This book is considered to be historical fiction because it is something that happened in the past that they are bringing back to life.
It helps us see the importance of the quilt and how much it means to the family.
This story is about Great Grandma Anna as a child, when she came to America from Russia.
When Anna outgrew her clothes her and her mother sewed them into a quilt, along with articles of clothing from all of their family back in Russia.
The quilt became a special object to be passed down through generations.Being set so far in the past, this book is considered historical fiction.
But like most historical fiction the character is not someone of historical significance, just an ordinary person.
The story is part fiction but also grounded in a true family tradition and cloth that the authors family passes down.
The Keeping Quilt is the story of an immigrant family coming to America from Russia.
The quilt starts out small, coming from the clothing of the family because they wanted to keep the only thing left they had from home.
As the storyline progresses the quilt builds and takes on many different jobs like a blanket, tablecloth, etc.
It is enjoyable to watch what the quilt turns into, and to watch it be passed down.
The point of view of the story is from the daughter of the family, and then gets passed down to the next daughter as the quilt takes its journey.
The Keeping Quilt is about the author's great grandmother who came to America as a child, she only brought a dress and a babushka.
When she grew out of her dress, her mother decided to bring the babushka and dress together into a quilt, they brought their families things together as well and made a big quilt that was passed down into the family.Throughout the book the pictures were black and white except for the red babushka and blue dress that soon was made into the quilt.
The quilt was the only colorful part of the book from there on.
The quilt was the main object throughout the story and the illustrator made sure for the readers to stay attentive to it.
This is a book about traditions that are kept after moving to the United States.
It shows what the children of immigrants have to go through.
When Anna out grew her dress they made a quilt from her babushka, Uncle Vladimir's shirt, Aunt Havalah's nightdress and an apron of Aunt Natasha's.
They took all of these things to make a quilt that is used for Sabbath, a chuppah, a blanket to wrap a new born baby.
This quilt is passed down from generation to generation and the traditions that were brought from Russia live on.
Genre: Historical FictionAwards: 1988 Sydney Taylor Book AwardGrade Level: 3-5The Keeping Quilt can be used in the classroom to teach the students about generations of family and traditions that can be passed down from generation to generation. Anna’s ancestors were dirt farmers in Russia. The students could do research and find out what that actually was. The story mentions New York, Russia, and Michigan. I could use this to have the students learn about each state and Russia. For a follow up activity we could reread the book and find the foreign words and there meanings.
A sweet story! I love Polacco's emphasis on family in her books. However, I've never been a fan of her writing style...and this book didn't change that. I also felt that the presence of another tradition in the book—the gold coin, flower, salt and bread—weakened the impact of the quilt. In my opinion, the story should have focused on one or the other. If this were a longer book, multiple symbols and themes could have been developed effectively. But in a story this short, simpler is more powerful.
