https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1270173.Cinderella_or_the_Little_Glass_Slipper
I know that Marcia Brown won the Caldecott Medal for Cinderella, or the Little Glass Slipper and thus of course, specifically for these very illustrations, but I personally find them much too wishy-washy and even expressionless (and not nearly as evocative as some of Marica Brown's other Caldecott honours).And yes, I also wish that Marcia Brown had included supplemental details, showing historical background, her own research and the like (maybe even a bibliography listing works consulted and cited).
And while I am actually not going to fault Marcia Brown all that much for not incorporating a so-called author's note, as these seem to be a relatively recent phenomenon, that does not mean I do not miss it (and that I believe a supplemental information section would levitate Cinderella, or the little Glass Slipper from basically adequate to outstanding).
I don't care for the art really, but it is done like a dream.
A Dream for a new life.
Marcia faithfully translates the fairy tale into english from the French.
There is nothing new here.
I do enjoy the Cinderella story and this didn't seem like anything ground breaking.My niece has didn't want to read it, she feels this is for babies now and my nephew didn't want to read it.
It is a modern idea to expect there to be a new twist on the beloved tale being told, so I am happy with the 3 stars, even with the artwork.
“Cinderella or the Little Glass Slipper” is the winner of the Caldecott Medal and is one of the earlier books by Marcia Brown that retells the French fairy tale “Cinderella” about how a miserable girl named Cinderella tries to go to the grand ball with the help of her fairy godmother.
Also, the illustrations are a bit simplistic due to the fact that there is barely any color in the background, but the color is mainly focused on the characters, which allows the characters to stand out more, which I have never seen done in any other book that have simplistic illustrations.“Cinderella or the Little Glass Slipper” is a brilliant retelling of the classic fairy tale that I think will be more suitable to children who want to read the more tame version of the fairy tale and will be a great hit for children everywhere.
This is a new translation / adaptation of Charles Perrault’s famous story, with wonderful illustrations by Marcia Brown (for which she was awarded the Caldecott Medal).What I really like about this version of the story is the way that Cinderella is portrayed as a very kind young woman, but clearly not a doormat.
Her stepsisters are never referred to as “ugly” either; rather they are selfish, self-absorbed, and rather hateful towards Cinderella.
The translation also differs from original versions of the story in the way it ends – for the stepsisters.
I was fascinated by the technique of Brown’s illustrations.
Cinderella, adapted by Marcia Brown, tells the classic tale of Cinderella, a beautiful girl who is mistreated by her stepmother and stepsisters.
For example, in this version, Cinderella’s father is alive, but Cinderella does not tell him about the cruelty his wife and her daughters bestow upon her, because Cinderella does not want to upset her father.
This Caldecott Medal winner includes illustrations that have a dreamlike quality with pastel colors.
The illustrations and words work together to tell the story.
If you are looking for a great version of Cinderella, try this one, unless your children prefer brighter, more vibrant illustrations.
While the illustrations don't have the crisp lines and vibrant colors of the animated Disney version, they still provide an ample depiction of the story, with very expressive characters and luxurious backgrounds.
We really enjoyed reading this story together and we liked that it was a little different from the tale we had always heard before.
This book was selected as one of the books for the October 2014 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
No wonder it won a Caldecott - such lovely illustrations!Ages: 6 - 10Cleanliness: "my goodness" is said. **Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
Of course I was familiar with the classic fairy tale, Cinderella, from watching the movie and hearing the story countless times in my childhood, but reading it was altogether different. The book goes into much more detail. I had no idea that there was actually two balls!
The illustrations in Cinderella were not what I would have thought a Caldecott medal winning book would represent.
Yet at the same time it was really impressive the way the author seemed to make full images with splotches of color and seemingly little detail.
The author used a lot of lines to create the shapes of her drawings as well as stayed consistent with her use of colors.
This is a great way to teach students about how one story can be interpreted or viewed differently by people from all over the world.
This book’s illustrations are very unique because of the changes in detail and color through the story.
Then when Cinderella tries on the glass slipper the illustrations color becomes much bolder which emphasizes the excitement of the story.
When narrator is focused on Cinderella the illustrations have more color and detail then when the narrator is talking about the step sisters.
This is very unique because most illustrators tend to stick with the same kind of art with slight alterations depending on the story line, but this illustrator makes very obvious changes in the pictures throughout the story.
I appreciate the story of a young woman who is taken advantage of her wicked stepmother and sisters but continues to dream.
Her hopes and dreams are what lead to a happy ending.
Contrary to my thoughts of Cinderella, the Disney movie, the illustrations within this book are extremely simple.
There are not many colors used in the beginning, which is used to show Cinderella’s place within her family.
As the story continues, more colors are used.
However, for anyone who has seen or knows the story of Cinderella, it is fairly simple to follow along with the illustrations.
Cinderella is a fairytale about a young girl and her journey to find prince charming.
This story is sweet and magical tale that is any young girls dream.
It captured my emotions and took me back to childhood as I turned each page.
The story has a message of forgiveness as Cinderella forgives her evil step sisters.
My favorite part about this version of Cinderella was the simple illustrations that can be seen throughout the entire book.
The illustrator used a simple black line to outline each drawing.
It gave it a simple, childish feel as I flipped through the pages.
The illustrations by Brown are what make this fairy tale magical.
This clear separation that makes Cinderella stand out during the rest of the story, in her blue dress makes the illustrations add to the text.
Another clear showing of this is when Cinderella runs from the Prince’s party the second night and in the garden is featured a statue of Cupid, it sets the scene to be romantic and show that there is love between her and the Prince.
The clarity Brown gives to the progression of the story through illustration is beautiful and visually interesting to the reader.
I also found that the illustrations reinforced the images I got in my head while reading.
Two of my favorite illustrations are of Cinderella in the chimney corner and when the king takes Cinderella into the ballroom.
The illustration of Cinderella hiding in the chimney corner perfectly depicts her emotions and made me feel how much pain she is in.
The illustration of the king taking Cinderella into the ballroom adds another dimension, by showing all the other girls in the ballroom looking the same and bland and Cinderella glowing and gorgeous.
This looks to be one of the first Caldecott Award books that is in full color throughout the book. The mixed-media illustrations are a bit impressionistic, with just a few ink lines to convey faces and personalities, and a sort of "scribbly" look. In this version, Cinderella attends 2 balls. When it is discovered that she is the mysterious princess, her stpesisters beg her forgiveness, and she marries them off to lords at court. I actually prefer other, more romantic, illustrated versions, especially the ones illustrated by Ruth Sanderson (Cinderella) and K. Y. Craft (Cinderella).(Caldecott Award, 1955)
Cinderella is a Caldecott Medal Winner and I think it definitely deserved to receive that honor.
Cinderella is a classic that any child, especially little girls would highly enjoy.
The storyline is engaging and keeps you interested as well as on Cinderella's side.
The whole time the author has you rooting for Cinderella and hoping that things will work out in her favor which is another reason why I think this book is so special.
Working into the classroom, after reading the book in class you could have a movie hour and show part of the movie to have them point out differences and similarities.
Cinderella written and illustrated by Marcia Brown is an award winning Caldecott book and I have rated it 4 stars.
I've always loved the story of Cinderella since I was a little girl, but the pictures in the book did not do it for me.
Marcia Brown is a phenomenal story teller but the watercolor aspect and the disfiguration of the step-sisters, Cinderella, the Fairy Godmother and more were distracting to me which is strange especially since I had read My Friend Dahmer by Derf Backderf and LOVED the disfigured characters.
For a children's book, I would have liked the drawings to portray the characters in a more realistic sense.
Review of 1954 edition, translated & illustrated by Marcia Brown, Caldecott Medal (1955)A pleasant version of the classic tale of the mistreated and neglected young girl whose beauty is matched only by her inner goodness.
Despite being ignored by her father and abused by her step mother and step sisters, young Cinderella never affords an ill wish or negative emotion, save despair for her condition.The illustrations are bright, colorful and sophisticated in a whimsical way; children should delight in them.
All is bright and gay in this version, even Cinderellas mistreatment is handled lightly.
Cinderella or The Little Glass Slipper Parrault, Charles translated by Brown, Marcia, 1954, Charles Scribner's Sons.
Description: This is an English translation of the 1697 version of Cinderella.
Most Americans will immediately recognize Brown's very familiar version of the story.
The storyline itself is similar to the Disney version (sans the talking animals), but the illustrations have a soft, hazy quality that puts some distance between this book and the Disney Cinderella.
The illustrations, coupled with a languid, Victorian-style prose, might be off-putting for some children.
Children who really enjoy the Cinderella story might like to read this version along with alternate Cinderella stories from other cultures.
This Cinderella or The Little Glass Slipper Illustrated by Marcia Brown is nothing but a good translation from the French version by Charles Perrault.
It's the traditional story about a beautiful, sweet, and kind girl whose mother dies when she was little and her father re-marries a woman with two daughters.
They are envious of the girl's beauty and made her do all the chores, treating her like their servant which makes her earn the nickname of Cinderella.
Unfortunately, it does not provide anything new from the classic story.The illustration are very artistic, the images look like water painted.
Cinderella is a Caldecott Medal Book winner, translated and illustrated by Marcia Brown from the original version.
This heart-warming Cinderella story still has all of the charm and magic as the original.
The illustrations are whimsical and playful and take you to that time period, from the tight corsetts that cinch the waist, to the curls in their hair, you get the feeling you are there with Cinderella living out her story alongside of her.
For the classroom you could do a compare and contrast activity to the Disney version of Cinderella and talk about the different story elements.
Cinderella is always a classic no matter what version you read!
While changes in publishing trends and artistic techniques are obvious when comparing a picture book like this one with one published in 2015, for instance, this one stands as a lovely classic, ideal for sharing aloud and preserving a story that remains woven into the fabric of our culture.
Readers will savor the magical touch of the fairy godmother's wand that changes an enormous pumpkin into a coach, mice into horses, lizards into footmen, a rat into a coachman, and Cinderella into the belle of the prince's ball, complete with a lovely frock.
Those only familiar with the Disney version will immediately notice many places that the story is different.
Some such differences include; Cinderella never expected to go to the ball, the animals are hardly a part of the story except to be changed into horses, the ball is a two night affair, and Cinderella forgives her sisters at the end, even finding them lords to marry.
I really enjoyed this version, and thought it adhered more to a true traditional literature story line.
Due perhaps to the age of this book or the translations, there are some vocabulary words that younger students may struggle with in the reading.
Summary:This book tells the story of Cinderella as we all know and love but with a slightly different ending.
When Cinderella's foot fits the glass slipper, her step sisters plead with her and ask Cinderella for her forgiveness.
Cinderella, being the kind person she is, forgives her step sisters and allows them to move into the palace with her and the prince.
Evaluation:This book told the great, classic story of Cinderella but with small differences and a unique ending that teaches an important moral of forgiveness.
Teaching idea:Students can work on comparing and contrasting plots and events in stories.
Of course the twins are going and Cinderella is stuck helping them get ready wishing she were going also.
Cinderellas god-mother shes how upset she is and knows its because she is not going to the ball.
Her god mother uses her magic to give Cinderella her wish.
Cinderella goes to the ball and leaves her slipper behind.
Girls would enjoy this book5.
As a group the students could read this together and write about how they know this is a fairy tale.6.
This can be used when introducing fairy tales because it is a classic.
7. Marcia Brown has written several award winning books.8.
Cinderella, or the Little Glass Slipper, illustrated and translated by Marcia Brown from Charles Perrault’s text is a picture book of the classic story of Cinderella.
This is a story about a young lady named Cinderella who is ordered around by her two evil step-sisters and step mother.
Cinderella is crushed when they don’t allow her to feel welcome at the Prince’s ball.
However, Cinderella has a step-mother who makes her dreams of going to the ball come true.
To make summary short, Cinderella ends up with the Prince in the end when her glass slipper matches.
This version of Cinderella is very similar to the traditional tale told in the United States and the Disney movie.
Cinderella is everything good- hard-working, gracious, and even generous to her selfish stepsisters.
Her fairy godmother magically readies Cinderella for the ball by providing her with a coach, a beautiful gown, and glass slippers.
Cinderella is depicted as the most beautiful with fair skin and blonde hair.
Although the story is well-written and the illustrations are very beautiful, this story does not offer anything beyond the Disney version of Cinderella.
It closely follows the Cinderella story most children from the United States are familiar with.
This book won the Caldercott Medal for it's pictures.
The lines and colors are very interested and different; not something you would see a lot in today's picture books.
This book is another version of the fairy tale Cinderella.
Some differences you will see in this version, is that the ball is two nights instead of one night.
The ending is a bit different than some of the other versions of Cinderella and could be a discussion topic for students.
This book could be used to compare and contrast to other Cinderella versions.
It can be used to discuss perspectives and character traits as well.
If you are looking for the Caldecott book, be careful which version you read.
The version that won the 1955 Caldecott is the one translated and illustrated by Marcia Brown.
Since the Caldecott is given for the pictures of the book, be sure to get the right one!My review for the Marcia Brown version of the story: The pictures seem extremely simple, and yet they have a lot of nice detail.
A couple of things that I like about this version of the story are that Cinderella is not just beautiful, she is also very good.
Cinderella or the Little Glass Slipper was awarded a Caldecott Medal for the illustrations.
The Caldecott Award is an award given to the most distinguished American picture book for children.
Marcia Brown is the author as well at the illustrator for this picture book.
It was a wonderful book to read as well as viewing the illustrations, I believe it is a book that any age level would be able to read.
This Cinderella story was different in certain ways of the Cinderella story by Walt Disney, which is the Cinderella story most children are familiar with, but also very similar in certain ways.
