https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1191749.Freshwater
In her introduction to the Hesperus edition of Carlyle's House, Doris Lessing criticizes Nicole Kidman's portrayal of Virginia Woolf in The Hours.
The narrative is inconsequential: Julia and her husband are at their Freshwater estate on the Isle of Wight, awaiting the arrival of a pair of coffins before departing for India.
In the meantime, Julia is searching among all the menfolk of the town for someone with manly enough calves to model Galahad in her next photograph, Alfred Lloyd Tennyson is lurking about reciting his epic Maud and nearly expiring in horror at failures in melifluosity in others' speech, a love tryst unfolds in the garden, and Queen Victoria makes an unannounced arrival.

Virginia Woolf è stata una scrittrice prolifica, ma soprattutto incredibilmente poliedrica nella sua produzione. "Freshwater" è una prova della sua poliedricità. è una piccola commedia, densa, surreale, divertente, che ci getta in un ambiente etereo, ma irreale, sconclusionato. è un piacere leggere "Freshwater", ha qualcosa di miracoloso.
I had not previously associated Virginia Woolf with comedy, but this is an unpolished and amusing farce with jokes at the expense, most satisfyingly, at Tennyson, but also at a number of other important artists, particularly self-important ones. There are two versions included in this edition, and they make slightly different jokes, making both a worthwhile read. Woolf and her sister put together a production of the playlet for friends, who responded with "unbuttoned laughter," in Woolf's words. I like thinking of Virginia experiencing unbuttoned laughter. This will mostly (or only) interest Woolf readers, but I recommend it to them.
This is my first taste of Woolf's writing, which was completely random.
I bought it at a library sale for a quarter only because of the name of the author.
It was really cool to finally read a farce.
I really wasn't expecting much because I have heard such good things about her other works.
I also want to read more plays.
I wrote a lot of "hahas." I can't wait to read more of Virginia Woolf's works.
I also need to find out more about the artists that were characters in this play!
Up until recently, I had no idea that Virginia Woolf had written a play! It is actually not that surprising considering she dabbled in different writing forms (especially parody) from a very early age. So, I think this play has to be contextualised as one of many Bloomsbury playful skits that her fellow "Bloomsberries" experimented with by way of private jokes, it seems. This text is teeming with whimsy and parody (of Victorian poetry and art in general) and it makes for a very light and pleasant read that will, however, not have a lasting impact on my mind unfortunately...
Not that crazy about Freshwater, I'm afraid. I prefer Tennyson's Gift by Lynne Truss instead. Virginia Woolf wrote a funny and interesting play highlighting aspects of each Freshwater artist's personality but she made Tennyson look like a saucy worded flirt who even negatively jokes about Emily's frailty which I just don't believe he would do! So, sorry but I still love Tennyson's Gift when it comes to Freshwater themed farce. Truss wrote with such love and admiration for all involved and highlighted the circles best traits instead!
Did you know that Virigina Woolf wrote a play? I didn't either, my friends. Ruth Miller and I saw the first ever performance of this at the Womens Project Theater in Manhattan. It was so well produced that the cliche script and goofy historical references actually worked. It was a ball, but I'm not so sure it would translate on the page so well. Go see this one while it's still in performance.
L'unica commedia di Virginia Woolf non e' nulla di che.A rendere inestimabile il volume tuttavia ci sono le brevi biografie di Julia Margaret Cameron e di Ellen Terry. Capolavori finora inediti.
I don't feel right judging a play that was never intended to be published. The Edward Gorey illustrations are charming, and the play was silly and entertaining.
Silly, silly, silly.
