https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90764.American_Diplomacy
He starts off with a discussion of the first American expansionist ventures in the Spanish-American War and concludes with the world after the World Wars and the darkest points of the Cold War.Kennan was a hard realist, and often cautioned against using moral justifications to enter foreign conflicts.
This is not from discounting international laws or our sense of morality, but that overusing this justification might eventually compel us to enter a war which would serve no purpose, or a war which is easy in a military sense, but lacks a defined purpose afterwards.
First of all, Kennan is as smart and wise as people say he is.
Third, this book presented so many lessons from the first half of the twentieth century that, if heeded, could have possibly lessened some of the damage of the second half of the twentieth century.
Finally, I love George Kennan's wisdom about Russia/the Soviet Union.
There are lessons in what he says that we still haven't heeded about dealing with empires and perceived "enemies." Straightforward, informative, and interesting, this book is small but worthy.
✭✭✭✭✭
The father of post-WWII "realism" Kennan approaches the history of WWI with the expressed purpose ofgleaning lessons which will enhance American security in the present (i.e. 1951).
It is virtually impossible from the perspective of 1993 to view his assessment of WWI outside the context of the Cold War. It is the Soviet threat which concerns Kennan.
Therein lies the rub.For Kennan, the central problem in American foreign policy is how to maintain the external trappings of democracy while gutting its content.
It is a well written and easy to read analysis of the American Foreign policy from 1900 to 1955.
The book is divided into two parts.
The first part analyses the American war with Spain, America's open door policy on China, America and its antagonisms with Japan, World War 1 and World War 2 .
The second part analysis America's relations with the Soviet Union and it attempts to visualise what the future relationship between America and Russia should look like in the future.
It is indeed interesting to read this latter part bearing in mind the strenuous relationships between America and Russia.
This book was pretty interesting. It was nice to hear from someone whole lives around the time and actually had a say in what was going on as Kennan did. A great little book to read if you want to learn more about the background of the World Wars!
Persevere beyond the China/Manchuria lecture and you will be richly rewarded. The piece about the humanity of Russians and pointlessness of unconditional surrender as a military objective are great.
56)In the second, as the Cold War became more frigid and talk of the inevitability of war between the USA and the Soviet Union set the context, Kennan, summarizing his thoughts about World War II and its continuing ripples, generalized about the need to understand our purposes in any moment of engaging in war and about the need to remain aware of the limitations of the war as an instrument of ‘world improvement.’ : “…there lay a deeper failure of understanding [underlying and guiding our actions during World War II], a failure to appreciate the limitations of war in general – any war – as a vehicle for the achievement of the objectives of the democratic state.
Two years ago, I did a series of lectures at a local university on ‘the History of American Diplomacy.’ Over two semesters, I consistently infuriated about half of each class with my thesis that, despite some significant successes over the centuries, American diplomacy is, for a host of historical reasons, rather dysfunctional.
Kennan, architect of America’s Soviet Containment Policy, and a veteran American diplomat himself, in his book American Diplomacy: 1900-1950, which reproduces a series of lectures he gave at the University of Chicago in the 1950s, agrees with me.
This book consists of six Walgreen lectures Kennan gave in the 1950's about the major wars the U.S. participated in, including the Spanish American War, World War I, and World War II, and his observations about American foreign policy during that time.
One of the main ideas behind the book is the warning that moral considerations should not be relied upon too much when determining foreign policy or entering wars.
While the narrow pursuit of national interest made sense during the 19th century, when there was a strong moral consensus among the nations, it may be inadequate when dealing with totalitarian regimes whose moral outlook (or lack of one) is very different from one's own and lies at the very root of the war.

Outstanding! Kennan beautifully makes theory and practice meet each other. His predictions about the post-Cold War are awe-inspiringly accurate. Chapter 6 (Diplomacy in the Modern World) is to be read and reread by anyone who is crazy enough to go after a career either as a policy-maker/policy-implementer or a theoretician/academic. This book is the ultimate wherewithal for those who want a clearer perception on how to read international trends, how to make policy, how to make it work, what to do if it turns sour. It is especially respectable in its invitation to humility and common sense. Absolutely gorgeous!
American Diplomacy contains lectures given by the "Father of Containment" posing the familiar questions "Where did we go wrong?" to try and right the United States position in the Cold War. Mostly what Kennan determined was the need to use common sense, something that was not always done in diplomacy. He also urged the need to truly understand "enemy" countries. This remains something we have a problem with today.
'Everything Kennan ever wrote is worth reading... But of course, what makes us go back to Kennan’s works decades after the Cold War are his enduring insights into American foreign policy. That few Americans read him today says more about the public than it does about Kennan. To profit from his genius, American Diplomacy is the best place to start.'Read the full review, "Why Kennan Matters," on our website: http://www.theamericanconservative.co...
A must read..... The beautiful logic of realism, applied with evenhanded sensitivity and strategic wisdom, a clear affirmation of the need for American reemphasis of reason over ideology and civilian over military concerns. Not to mention it's incredible ability to dispel myths about the traditions of American international relations and the fall of the Soviet Union.
Kennan, an -ahem- complex fellow, was a primary expositor of containment as a policy for the US dealing with the Soviet Union. This set of lectures, taking place while the Korean War rages, is insightful and captures the uncertainty of the time. Also has two other key essays from Foreign Affairs magazine.
Kennan may have been misguided or naive in some of his conclusions. Nevertheless, he makes some really astute observations about American society and politics that still ring true today. A must read.
I think a wonderful Christmas gift for anyone interested in an overall picture of international politics without any waste of words included - would be a complete selection of everything this former diplomat has written.
A series of lectures that Kennan gave in the early 1950's about the evolution of American diplomacy during the first half of the twentieth century. Fascinating reading, especially the famous 1947 X article making the case for containment, which was included in the edition that I read.
Based on a series of lectures given by one of the leading thinkers who formulated America's Cold War policies, most notably the policy of containment.
Even though this book is 65 years old, very interesting read. Keen insights on American democracy that are pertinent today.
A must read for any serious student of 1950-1990 in American History.
Hard to make an assessment of it as a book, since it is a primary source first and foremost. If you want to understand the thinking behind containment and the cold war, this is your book.
I read this book in college with one of my favorite professors and I believe this is an excellent read for American diplomacy!
