https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/786550.The_Lives_of_the_Great_Composers
A good introduction to classical composers, but this guy gets unnecessarily catty at times, and if you're new to classical music and impressionable you may want to be wary of letting Schoenberg sway you against certain composers. Another thing to consider - pare this book with a premium Spotify subscription and you can build playlists to match what you're reading, without having to drop huge wads of money (operas can get expensive). Also, as you approach the late 19th century, consider augmenting this with Alex Ross's The Rest is Noise: Listening to the 20th Century.
It's not a matter of any one of the greats being brought down a peg or two by what he puts in these volumes but of a cumulative impression one is left with and the standards of value by which a modern musicologist like Schonberg (not to be confused, by the way, with the 20th century composer Arnold Schoenberg) evaluates them and their work.I don't know why I was so naïf as to think musicians were not, like fiction writers, subject to the academic bent for seeing art as a progressive historical process classifiable into schools and periods: Baroque, Classical, Romantic, Post-Romantic, Modern, Post-Classical and God knows what else.
it follows that "it was robert schumann who unearthed [schubert's] ninth symphony, the 'great' c major.
schumann had known of its existence and on new year's day of 1839 he visited schubert's brother ferdinand, who showed him piles of manuscripts.
ferdinand allowed schumann to depart with the scor of the c-major symphony, and on march 29, 1839, mendelssohn [!] conducted the world premiere in leipzig.
the c-major symphony, in its breadth and passion, had a claim to stand near the beethoven ninth.
his music is packed with ideas, is enormous in scale, is starting to head in a new direction.
Highly recommended!This is one of my favorite books. I used to own the 1st edition when I was a 20-something, but it was lost along the way. I found this 3rd edition just recently and have loved revisiting these chapters.The value is the 10-15 page chapters devoted to each composer. None of the treatments are thorough, but a single volume thread of composers from Monteverdi to Copland is just right for me. Especially when I just want an hour or two diversion to whatever else I'm reading.
I learned a lot, but this was far too dry to merit more than 3 stars. Still, glad I read it just from the standpoint of my own cultural edification.
This is a very well written, informative overview of some of the most important composers of the Western tradition, from Bach to Webern.
Schonberg has the power to make the same bare facts of a particular composer's life that I've read before in CD liner notes or reference book entries take on real drama and significance, without distorting the facts.
He writes well about music, succeeding in conveying the experience of the various pieces discussed without growing stale or sounding pretentious.
Still, a superbly written book, an excellent guide for lay readers who are reasonably familiar with the composers being discussed and can draw their own conclusions.
“We are in contact with a mind, and we must attempt an identification with that mind.” This is Schonberg's stance on understanding music.
So Schonberg attempts to relate to each composer and the world and culture that produced him as well as the make and personality that lent itself to the creation of classical music.
Therefore, it is largely biographical, in contrast with The Great Pianists, which focuses more on the specific contributions of each pianist.I often wondered at some of the “great” composers he included.
Still, those who have not studied the composers before will find a fine exposition.
This is a fantastic book, thoroughly researched, lucidly written and highly entertaining. It contains details on the lives of all the great composers and many of the more obscure ones as well. The composer Charles Ives became one of my heroes after reading this. One of my friends is currently writing an instructional book on playing the guitar titled, How to Become a Guitar Player from Hell, and he told me this book really inspired him and also influenced some of the musical ideas he decided to include for illustration purposes.
I've been reading this book to bits for decades now (an earlier edition). The only reservation I have about Schonberg is that he didn't always write about the composers themselves with respect. But all his sins are forgiven him because of the short chapter he devoted to my beloved Hugo Wolf, of whose ultrasubtle, inspired settings of good poetry Schonberg said "No greater songs exist". Sometimes I agree with that.
I couldn't enjoy the book. Although it was written in a slightly charming style, I found the author rather subjective and judgmental. I don't know if this is the proper way to get people into the history of music, with journalistic idiosyncrasies.
I'm giving this 4 stars because it's a great resource, but I wish I could give it 1 star for the overarching misogyny.
Where most composers of his day would confine themselves to the rules, Bach made the rules.” Sounding more like a Romantic than a Baroque composer, Bach told an aspiring organist to not only play the notes but express the “affect”, the emotional significance of the piece.
On the negative side, I did not like the fact that Harold was not a fan of Saint Saens Piano Concerto #2, and that he dissed the amazing first movement of Dvorak’s Seventh Symphony.
Jan sells more records than any classical artist today and his favorite composer is Grieg (Jan is also Norwegian).
A comprehensible encyclopedia of all music labeled "classical" and its progression since the Baroque period.
Schonberg did a good job including all major composers and exploring their lives, expertise, and innovation.
I personally spent the most time on the giants of the Classical and Romantic periods and threw my mind into their lives and contemporaries, though not as much for those from the 20th century.The book is substantial in content, and it took me a little more than two month to walk through this long history of music.
Read and re read and re re read. It really is very nicely done. I have the 599 page hardback edition.
An excellent book, recommended for everyone everywhere -- even haters -- and it's remarkable that this final revision was assembled when Schomberg was in his eighties.Here he digresses about castratos (in the chapter on Handel): "These glamorous, ungainly figures were pursued by bored ladies out for a new kind of thrill.
But there really is an autumnal tone, a sense that modernity has rendered new "classical" music comatose, or vegetative.
The author's bias is most obvious when a chapter is about a specified group of composers and he writes several pages for a few of them and merely a paragraph for the others; he clearly doesn't like the work of the composer if he writes one or two paragraphs on their life!Being a classically-trained musician, I was interested in reading this because it is not a textbook (therefore hopefully not as dry, more interesting, maybe more scandals from the composers' lives mentioned) and I was using the book as an aid to passing my Master of Music Proficiency exams (I did pass awhile back!).
I only read the 24th chapter of this book, Surcharged Emotionalism PYOTR ILYICH TCHAIKOVSKY (pg. 366-377), for history. Be that as it may, I will try to give a review based on what I read. I felt that this book is very special and unique in it's layout. Schonberg gives detailed information, but not so detailed that it feels as though you are reading a 300 paged biography. He tells of the personal life on the composer, but unlike most books which will perhaps list when the composer wrote a certa
I only read the 24th chapter of this book, Surcharged Emotionalism PYOTR ILYICH TCHAIKOVSKY (pg.
He tells of the personal life on the composer, but unlike most books which will perhaps list when the composer wrote a certain piece and leave it at that, Schonberg goes into the composer's thoughts on the piece and it's musical form as well as the critics' and public response.
The book is written in time line order, and Schonberg shows how the lives of the composers overlapped and what they thought of each other.
Each of the significant composers is dealt with in chapters around 10 or 15 pages in length.
Some of the minor composers (for example, the Russian Five (which includes Mussorgsky, Borodin and Rimsky-Korsakov) or the French post-Wagnerian group including Faure, Franck, etc.) are dealt with in chapters linking their lives and work to each other.
In fairness to more recent composers that are yet to be judged by history, the book ends with Schoenberg and his pupils, Berg and Webern.
The book is a good start for someone wishing to dig a little deeper into the lives and work of composers still heard today on the radio or in the concert hall.
Wonderfully written story of the evolution of music composition from Monteverdi in the mid 17th century to Benjamin Britten in the 20th century.
Schonberg paints a clear picture of the whole person with anecdotes, quotes from letters, relationships with peers.
One of his main themes is how each generation is influenced by the previous ones, but by the end of the 20th century, the chain appeared to be broken.
Experiments with indeterminancy, serialism, aleatory techniques, electronics manipulation and other approaches resulted in a chasm between composers and their public.
Fortunately, a few composers such as Britten and Jenkins have rediscovered tonality with good success in finding a public.
I have owned copies of Schonberg's "The Great Conductors" and "The Great Pianists" since I was 11, and have read both to tatters.
Well into middle age, I finally got around to this great tome to round out the trio.
Harold Schonberg's writing on classical music is, to me, the gold standard on the subject.
And even if you don't play this music - or even like it all that much - you'll still be mesmerized.
He gives life to these far away and long ago musical groundbreakers and reminds us that this immortal music was brought into the word by living, breathing, bad-decision-making, bipolar, wildly ego driven, crushingly insecure, kind, not so kind, and everything inbetween people.
For the classical music buff, and for others who want to read about important figures in music. Schonberg gets beneath the music to remark on the personalities who made the greatest sounds ever. Very readable, Schonberg is opinionated, so Mahler fans, for example, may not care much for his part of the book. He dispels certain assumptions; Chopin and Schubert are considered to be Romantic composers but they observed a lot of the traditional forms. Lots of interesting observations here.
I love classical music so I can read about the composers lives. Schoenberg writes with a good flow that makes it entertaining. He writes about their personalities with some humor, but sometimes he gives rough critiques. It would s a very good book for people who love classical music or music history.
This book is so much fun. I love classical music and biographies of composers, but I think that even if I didn't I would still enjoy this book. It covers Bach to Boulez and boils each biography down to, if not its essence, then at least its juicy details.I read it a few years ago and in March I reread a bunch of composers. Still fun.
As a music student this book was a constant companion. Re-reading it now, years later, for fun, it is a total joy. Best densely packed 'quickie' for the most famous composers. Use 'Groves' for other things--but this for quick bios.
I love classical music, and I love Mr. Schonberg's writing! If you enjoy listening to and learning about classical music, I recommend this book very highly (second only to the Naxos website).Thanks to my wonderful wife for this lovely Christmas present!
Read most of it. Which means I am now an expert on classical music and composers. This is the kind of self delusional cache I tend to buy into generally.
REally cool
i read this one once a week one week at a time in the bookstore without ever buying it. just good synopsis of every important composer pretty much ever.
A great reference.
Where I get all my facts about the greats. You love their music, now get to know them.
