https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312080.Magic_or_Not_
Charmingly written. I've always liked Edward Eager's writing style.
Although it's listed as Book #5 of the "Tales of Magic" series, this book features all new characters and no cameos from the children from the other books at all.I have the sense that Eager really hit his stride with this book.
She's not a huge fan of fantasy---she's a very practical almost-eight-year-old (perhaps too practical)---and I think there was great appeal for her in the fact that "magic or not?" remained a question throughout the book.
My daughter says she likes Magic or Not?
Luckily, there are plenty of children's classics to read after we finish Book #6.
Edward Eager was one of my favorite authors when I was a child.
(The others I read countless times!)What I liked about Eager's other books was that magical adventures befell ordinary children living in ordinary neighborhoods in the United States.
I can appreciate the author's attempt to do something different from the rest of his canon, and from my adult point of view, I definitely see a supernatural touch in both books.
And most of the elements I've always loved in Eager's books are still there.
And I am glad that the author went back to form in his last book, Seven Day Magic.
This book, and "The Well-Wishers," were probably my two least favorite Edward Eager magic books, because he started waffling about whether the magic was really happening or not. I *hated* that! The thing that made his other books so much fun (especially when I first read them as a child) was that he wrote about ordinary kids who had real magic adventures. I don't know what made him suddenly start prevaricating about the magic, but I found it very frustrating!
Half Magic is still my favorite of Eager's books, but in Magic or Not? he hasn't lost his signature touch with characters or plot. In this book, I enjoyed the play with the concept of magic as fate or magic as coincidence in the real world and the ultimate pleasure that the children took in considering that the adults had set all of the magical adventures up for them. All in all, a sweet book that I'm glad to have read, magic or not!
Probably my favorite book in this series so far. I really liked the back and forth question of whether or not what was happening to them was magic or just coincidence. I loved how the author used this as a theme, like, even if there isn’t magic, (but maybe there is) things can still be magical. I also loved the idea in that magic is fueled by, comes from, or maybe just is “good turns.” It’s a good message. And, of course, like all books in this series, beautifully written.
Reading aloud to my own children these wonderful books that my Dad read to me as a child, or that I read to myself when I was younger (or even to my older children when they were younger), awakens such fond memories within me.
Marvelous.
This book is, in some respects, more poignant than the earlier Edward Eager books, in large part because it's not clear whether there's any magic involved or not, or simply a case of children befriending each other, discovering things about themselves and their neighbors, and seeking to do what is good and right.
So I seem to be reading this series backwards.
Anyhow it was lovely charming story.
But I was a bit put out by one thing in the end.
Did they or did they not return Mrs T Witherspoon's desk?
I would bloody like to know because my heart was racing when they (the 5 children) carried it away in the middle of the night.
Yes its fine and well to say magic was in the air and the identical desks needed to be reunited.
But I kinda had a heart failure.
I guess I take things far too seriously..
One of the Edward Eager books I missed  as a child. Laura moves into a new home with a well that, according to knowledgable sources, grants wishes. What wishes will the well willingly work?
While I agree with one reviewer who said that this one is not as good as it's predecessors because it makes you doubt whether the magic was real or not I still have to say I found it delightful. I'm okay with the idea of making your own magic. Also, there were some really good lines in this one and Kip was a stand-up character.
I love Edward Eager's books! This is the story of twins, Laura and James, who move with their family to the country. On the train ride up, a strange girl (Lydia) tells them that the well in their yard is really a magic wishing well. Laura tries it out and her wish comes true! This leads to the children having some magical adventures for the summer. Or maybe it's all a coincidence... Magic or not, this book is definitely a fun romp :)
Magic or Not has "By all odds his best" from the Chicago Tribune on the front cover. Good thing that was editorializing and not news reporting because they forgot to check their facts. While enjoyable, Magic or Not does not deliver.
historical fiction combines with fantasy. It didn't convince me to suspend belief and go with the magic. Maybe because they kids themselves doubt it all along? And the children seem unrealistically altruistic. Although maybe that's how kids were in the '50s...LOL
I liked this one better than the other books in the series. However, I am not sure if I would have appreciated it as much if I hadn't read those books. I really like Eager. He is a fun author.
3.5 🌟
We are big Edward Eager fans, but this one fell flat for us.
I didn't think it was great, I would only recommend it if your interested in books about magic.
Amusing, perfect (almost!).
is a bit different than all of the other Tales of Magic books, but it is still quite enjoyable and a great addition to the series.In this novel their are four children, later on five, who go on what they believe to be magical adventures given to them by a wishing well.
This is what made the story interesting and kept it a bit more real, like how children pretend when they play, and don't actually go on magical adventures.
I did like how everything they did and all the people they helped seemed to be connected together.Most of the characters were enjoyable.
I've recently begun re-reading Edward Eager's series of juvenile fantasy books for the first time since elementary school, and have come to the conclusion that they are every bit as good as C.
In the end, the children work out that all the wishes that have been granted *could* have been brought about by human means, but the series of coincidences and improbabilities required seem far too unlikely to believe it was anything but magic.If you believe that every person deserves our good will, and that any day can be an adventure if you look at it right, this may be a book for you.
is quite an endearing book; it made me feel like magic is possible if we choose to believe in it.
The overall theme concentrated on, just as the title suggests, the kids' (mainly Laura and James) frames of mind and their search for whether or not magic really existed?
Otherwise, the book is very down to earth; the author built a steady and soothing rhythm and rhyme; as well as keeping the reader wondering to the very end whether or not magic really existed!
One main reason for this is because the tone of voice is very transcendental and stream of consciousness-like, which might not capture the attention of younger kids as much.
I found the central conceit of this book somewhat charming.
A group of children have a series of magical adventures over the course of a summer, yet after each episode they ponder the possibility that the seemingly wondrous events might have a more mundane explanation.
And does that really matter?
It seems like a metaphor for the "disenchantment of the world" as described by Max Weber.
And does that really matter?Some kids might be disappointed by the lack of flashy magical miracles that are such a staple of Eager's earlier books, but my nine-year-old enjoyed this just the same.
This is the fifth book in the Tales of Magic series by Edward Eager.I thought it was pretty humorous that the first book in the series, Half Magic, is mentioned as one of Laura's favorite books and that "just about everyone has" read it. (p. 25)interesting quotes:"It was a creaking sound, just the kind of noise that magic might make if it were winding the bucket up from its watery depths to get at the wish." (p. 17)
by  Edward Eager is a book with lots of uncertainty and mysteries.
Laura and James move to a new house, and with it, a well.
It all seems quite ordinary, until Lynda rumors about the well.
After meeting new friends, they explore the mysterious and legendary properties about the it.
The well may be magic...
The well may be magic...
or not?Edward organizes everything in a neat way- from the strange rumors about the well to the exploration and discoveries of it.
Also, the illustrator's sketches highlight and accompany Edward's writing.
Both of them were also making sure never to give out the whole story at once!
Wow...
so I did read this book already!
Well, at the moment, I'm reading it again, because I wanted to see whether or not to donate it away.
It looks like I'm going to because it's really boring, just like Half Magic.
It was even funny when Laura, the main character said that she loved the book Half Magic.
Aside that I thought that Half Magic was an utterly horrible book, it was very arrogant of Eager to say that his own book was a favorite.
I totally don't recommend it unless you like boring, uncaptivating, dull, headache-giving books.
Hmm, this was fun to read out loud and very well-written as all Edward Eager's books are.
Great girl and boy characters and I love how they work together and interact, especially since two of them are siblings.
But there really isn't any magic in this book--it's more about kids creating magic and adventure for themselves.
I think I just prefer the ones like Knight's Castle or Half Magic where there really is magic even if it's unpredictable and doesn't work out the way the kids hope.
Still love these books!
The author's name was familiar to me, in the same vein as Joan Aiken or E.
And even though these were quite the kinds of books I would have ADORED as a young reader, I don't think I read many of them.
That one sounds familiar, but I'm just not sure.
Anyway, this one was great fun -- it's the nostalgic kind of magic realism that seems so common to a certain type of novel for young readers, and reading it was so familiar and comforting.
Just the kind of thing to pull me out of my recent reading funk.
The first four books in this series gets 5 stars from me, but this third pair (along with The Well-Wishers) is my least favorite of the groupings within the series.
That's not to say it isn't great, but — maybe because the whole point is the ambiguity of the magic — it's not quite as exciting or, well, magical as the others.
I really like one little detail Eager threw in, though — the characters in this pair have read the earlier Eager books (specifically, Half Magic).
Therefore, it sort of makes sense that, being nested outside of those obviously magic stories, this pair could be a little more practical.
Another wonderful book by Eager!
I simply can't say enough about these magical books by Eager.
Every one I've read so far has been thoroughly enjoyable.
In this book the children encounter a wishing well and begin making wishes, but are their adventures a result of the wishes or just coincidence?
One thing that is so great about these books is that the children really act like how kids should be in summer time: adventuresome, imaginative and full of play.
If you have even the slightest interest in reading young adult books (or have kids!) don't think twice about reading this and Eager's other books.
Sigh.
This is one of those books that I loved as a child and has not held up well for me.
Not enough nuance in the characters.
And the premise of the magic maybe not being magic but just a way of looking at the world was a bummer too.
But the more I read the book, the more like spirituality it seemed to me.
That it doesn't matter if something is "real" or not, just that you believe in it.
That believing in something, if it causes you to look at the world in a positive way can have magical results.
