https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145560.The_Complete_Book_of_Incense_Oils_and_Brews
A sufficiently entrepreneurial individual could use the information to supplement his/her income via cottage industry; hawking "Organic AirWick," (if you will), at craft shows, love-ins, and outpatient rehab clinics.
Guess we'd better burn a few of these -- and open a window...") If, on the other hand, you're counting on any of this humbug to make you rich or get you a date (not to mention a suite in the Outer Darkness Hilton), I have a more constructive suggestion: Learn a trade -- and social skills.
An excellent resource. But I've found that that is all that this book is: a quick reference. While I enjoy having that at hand I would have rather seen Cunningham dive a bit deeper into the meaning, symbolism, and history of some of the incense/oil combination he provides.
More than just Incense, Oils, & Brews, this book gives the beginner a great foray into the art of aromatherapy, soaps, and sachets. This book is a quick read with more than enough recipes to blend incense, oil, and much more with purpose and intent. Although very informative, ultimately this will wind up on your shelf as a handy reference guide.
Cunningham gave me the start I needed to begin to understand how to channel energy with herbs and scent. This book is a primer without being too elementary. I highly recommend this book to those whose craft is amplified through scent.
Like many of his other texts the author Scott Cunningham created a very useful and effective resource for working many different types of magical spells and rituals.
By having the three sections a beginner to incense and oil work will be able to get the most out of it while an experienced crafter will also be able to find just what they are looking for and nothing else.The first section deals with magic basics, proportions, empowering the creations, ingredients and creating your own recipes.
Finally purchased this book today, and I'm so glad I did. An invaluable reference book for working with herbs to mix incense, potions and ritual baths. Will surely be a very well used addition to my occult bookshelf.
He gives get recipes in this book about oils and incense. I like how Scott writes as a casual guy and straight forward with you. He does not try to flower or impress you. Just a friend who is sharing his technique.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
Questo libro è tutto fuorché completo. Viene dato spazio ad argomenti molto superficiali che poteva essere sfruttato per ampliare i soggetti principali. Però mi é piaciuto molto. Innanzitutto é una guida strutturata in modo intelligente, utile da tenere sotto mano per consultazione durante i propri lavori. Inoltre Cunningham é uno dei pochissimi autori neopagani che mi piacciono davvero. Il suo forte é saper aggiungere un senso dell'umorismo che fa sorridere (non ghignare o ridacchiare nervosamente), facendo trasparire la vera natura del neopaganesimo - mentre gli altri autori non fanno che ammantarlo di misterismo e pseudoautorità.
I think every budding Wiccan/Witch has owned this book at some point. Scott Cunningham was the author many of us were introduced to during the "Wicca Boom" of the 90's. Don't let the age of the text put you off, however. Even advanced practitioners might find the simple recipes, with generally easy to acquire ingredients, useful for a working. This is a nice addition to any library.
Though Scott Cunningham is gone, his books and works are a mainstay in my library. His insight, guidance and brilliantly written books are with out saying. Once you read his work, I believe that you will feel the same.
Another great book from Mr. Cunningham.It's pretty much summed up in the title.There are some great combinations in this book. Explanations as always are clear and concise!Always a pleasure reading his works.Enjoy!
A fantastic book for any practioner. Cunningham is the foundation for Neo Paganism. He helped shaped my practices tremendously, and I am so sad that he is no longer with us to continue writing great material
Thoroughly enjoyed this. An excellent guide for beginners. Honest writing and a wealth of information.
Fine reference guide for the practitioner of earth-based spiritualities.
Great instruction book on how to make all kinds of potions and incenses.
Great little book for any Witch or magical practioner to have in their library. Filled with many recipes to make your own oil or incense for many occasions and or spells.
This was a quick read, since its mostly recipes. Excellent balance of how to and ingredients. I love that substitutions are listed for the hard to find/toxic herbs. I will definitely be buying this book, and making my own soaps and incenses.
A great, resource book to have on the shelf.
An encyclopedia for making one's own incense or oils.
Also it requires a ton of patience that most people like myself don't have.
Although oils are not as hard to make, they also require patience.
Plus one has to test them out before making the perfect batch.
There's a science to making oils.
If one puts too much oil of one thing it could make it too strong and overpower the other smells.
Too much carrier oil and it becomes too weak.
Still an interesting and educational book.
The brews aren't that exciting in my opinion so not really the point of the book.
It is filled with numerous recipes ranging from love tinctures, astral projection incenses, dream teas, protection sachets and everything in between.
While there is a wealth of information to be found in the recipes, the most use one will get from this book is from the tables of substitutions and correspondences at the end of the book.
Even if you do not have a certain herb a recipe calls for it is easy to substitute it out for one you you probably do have or even create your own unique formulas from scratch using these charts.
This book is such a great resource. It's got so many recipes for not only incense, oils and brews but also things like bath products, tinctures, inks, powders and more. It does a great job of explaining the basics of pagan herbalism. The only thing I don't like about it is some of the recipes contain toxic herbs like hemlock, belladonna, mistletoe, etc. in an incense or other blend which can be dangerous. To his credit he does put asterisks (*) next to the toxic herbs but I still feel those recipes shouldn't be in the book at all.
The copy of this book in our house actually belongs to my partner, Maple.... he is the incense maker of the house. This book have proven to be the wonderful guide and set of instructions for us! Maple now makes all the incense we use in circle and to date has made a sabbat blend, prosperity blend, house cleansing blend, and more!Cunningham.......... a timeless hero!
This is my absolute favorite witchy ingredient reference book. When I do spellwork, I pick and choose between many different sources, but I always go to Cunningham's first. This book provides recipes for oils, incense, potions, and so much more, along with appendices full of correspondences and information. This is a GREAT resource.
As a practical guide for DIY incense and magical herbalism, this book does the job. I am not Wiccan, so much of the info here is a little whimsical for me, but the how-to stuff is great. This is definitely inspiring me to create my own burnables and incense as well as to look into the symbolic and spiritual qualities of herbs, rather than just their medicinal qualities
The reason for the long reading period is, well, you don't stop reading this kind if book. it's a reference book. Even though I have put an end date I'll be picking this book when ever time I need information on how to create a particular incense, brew etc. it's a brilliant book and like all of Scott's books, is one I'd highly recommend to anyone!
I got to admit I have a soft spot in my heart for this book. Some of the recipes are pretty good and the tables help out in whipping up something that you need if you can't find it already laid out in the book.
Great resource for herbal recipes and correspondences. A few downsides were his repetitiveness around not using synthetics and his slight Wiccan superiority complex. Still a must have for those interested in simple herbal magic.
Excellent resource for anyone wanting to explore the world of making and working with incense, essential oils, tinctures and so forth. Great for the advanced and beginner. As always, I love Scott Cunningham's work!
This includes an explanation of magic, what oils, incense and brews are used for, followed by recipes divided into each category. All are used in Wiccan magic to heal, as a cure for depression and many other magic portions. Good for the followers of the Wican Religion.
