https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385.On_Bullshit
Now, amidst the bullshit-crammed tweet storms of Dear Leader Trump, I find it central to understanding the devolution of our political discourse.Frankfurt demonstrates, through argument and example, the difference between lying and bullshit: the liar knows what is true (or else he would not be lying), whereas the bullshitter cares nothing about truth or lies.
The bullshitter really does not give a damn.I find this distinction useful when dealing with any instance of political bloviating or religious propaganda.
Frankfurt, I just recognize the thing for the pile of bullshit it is, sweep it up, and dump it in the trash.
As others on GR have remarked, we have entered into a political era in the US of pure, unadulterated bullshit with the election of Drumpf and so it is quite the timely read.
I thought that line was a bit thin and that expressions such as this are purely allegorical and do not really fall into the bullshit category and that Wittgenstein was annoying splitting hairs over it.
(I laughed out loud at that one.) But most importantly, just before the conclusion of this short 65-page essay, he makes a valid point that bullshitting is a greater enemy to the truth than lies - precisely because it is manipulative and never benevolent.
It's intellectual humour done not to amuse an audience as its first aim but because the professor is amusing himself that he can do this sort of thing, and well.All this sounds like I didn't enjoy it, but you know when it comes to stars I'm wavering between 1.5 and a 4.5, I can't decide.
You can read the paragraph above in a slightly negative tone of voice and then it also reads in an ironic kind of way that I kind of admire the professor and had also quite enjoyed both his work and why he did it.
Imagine my horror when, during the concluding meeting, the Head of Engineering said: "Mr. Varma, from your vast expertise, can you give some advice about a problem in operations?"My knees turned weak and heart started doing double-time: however, hiding my nervousness, I nodded.He continued.
and how much now?""A metre.""And you say the deposition has decreased, and you can live with it.""Yes.""Well..." I said, scratching my chin and trying to look knowledgeable: "You've left it very narrow, but it seems to be OK.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review."One of the most salient features of our culture is that there is so much bullshit.
Frankfurt"’a person who undertakes to bullshit his way through has much more freedom.
Hence the familiar notion of the 'bullshit artist'"In “On Bullshit” by Harry G.
Not bullshit, not alternative facts, nor post-truth - but lies.
A bullshitter like Trump, Farage, Socrates (a former Portuguese Prime-Minister) literally couldn't care less and will say absolutely anything to anyone to get what they want and pivot 180 º in an instant.If you want to Bullshit Your Way Into Any Situation, read on.
This slim, elegant little book looks at first like an elaborate joke, but I think it is actually quite serious.
What is "bullshit"?
He examines and discards various plausible hypotheses, for example that bullshit is merely lying or careless use of language.
As he points out, the bullshit artist often lies, but need not do so: some bullshit is, more or less by accident, perfectly true.
And similarly, although much bullshit is hasty or careless, some of the worst bullshit around is crafted with exquisite care and attention to detail; one need only think of commercial advertising and political campaigns.
Just read this book alone we can have a glimpse of author's mind.
(hide spoiler)] The descriptions are so pristine and sharp reflects author's mind, for example you will learn to distinct between bullshit and lie.
I want to propose a hypothesis: the readers (unconsciously) feel the book has a lot of nonsense.
Yes, this book that discussing about bullshit is dragging the readers with a lot of hot-air tenses/paragraphs.
Some people rate based on the nonsense content (view spoiler)[what do you expect for the majority of this book, full illuminating knowledge in each tense?
(hide spoiler)], some people rate based on the knowledge gems in the book.
این کتاب یک مقاله کوتا در خصوص تعریف این کلمه هست و کسایی که کارشون بولشت گفتن هست.
شاهکار کتاب برای من این بخشش بود:از نظر اخلاقی، کسی که بولشت می گه نسبت به یک دروغ گور دشمن جدی تری برای حقیقت محسوب می شه.
کسی که دروغ می گه، توجه داره که سری حقایقی وجود دارن و از یک سری راه و روشهایی می شه به اون حقایق رسید.
کسی که دروغ می گه در باطن خودش می دونه یک تفاوتی بین ادعایی که می کنه و حقیقت در اون خصوص وجود داره.
"Our natures are, indeed, elusively insubstantial-notoriously less stable and less inherent than the natures of other things. And insofar as this is the case, sincerity itself is bullshit."This is how the work ends :)
Frankfurt, On Bullshit Sometimes what is natural still deserves a little study.
How is bullshit different from a lie?
How is bullshit different than humbug?
If these questions plague you or you are just seeking a philosopher's take on the nature, design, function, and theory of bullshit -- well do I have a book (a short book) for you.In the current election year especially, this title deserves a bit more attention.
At dinner a few weeks ago, he suggested that most people underestimate just how little Trump actually knows.
So perhaps, (and this is certainly no excuse and NO REASON to elect the man) Trump isn't a liar but a well-formed, well-practiced, toxic bullshit artist.
“On Bullshit” is a short academic essay packaged into a small hardcover, published in 2005, before the current iteration of political discourse.I worried this about Bush as I now do Trump: Is he a pathological liar?
Frankfurt is a bit helpful here in making a distinction between lying and bullshit:“It is impossible for someone to lie unless he thinks he knows the truth.
Producing bullshit requires no such conviction.” Humbug.
Drivel.“Never tell a lie when you can bullshit your way through”—E.
AmblerIn the end he also says all claims to sincerity are bullshit, which would include his essay, a claim about which I agree.
In this paper, we distinguish three important classes of dishonesty that can occur in multi-agent systems, as well as in human society. In particular, the distinction is being made between lies and bullshit, following the work of Harry Frankfurt. The difference is that someone who tells a lie has access to the truth, whereas the concept of bullshit requires no knowledge of the truth at all. That is, the liar knows that what he says is not true, whereas the bullshitter has no proper knowledge to
Before I read this essay, I had no idea who Harry Frankfurt was and it wasn’t until I had done some research last night before beginning this book that I found out that he’s a renowned moral philosopher and realized He is professor emeritus of philosophy at Princeton University and has previously taught at Yale University and Rockefeller University.So the tiny hardback that I had initially purchased had been because of the title and I thought that it would prove to be amusing.
Yes, the subject is a funny word.
Frankfurt spends most of his (admirably few) pages examining causes for bullshitting, in very dry and highly speculative fashion.
Like other popular swears, it's a broad word.
Frankfurt is more interested in a phenomenon that he believes can only be described under this word, though, which hurts a treatise that ought to encapsulate the word entirely.
His speculation on precisely what makes people bullshit is useful, though it misses the gravity of the biggest cause: that people don't care.
"...Sincerity itself is bullshit."Though I should point out that I'm not a "Frankfurtist" as I disagree with his main theories on the matter of free will, But I like his style. His style of logical argumentation is to some extent precise which is much appreciated in the age of continental philosopher (or as I call them, lazy-ass-dramatic-claimer). Also, his style of writing is fun, elegant and rather enjoyable to read. I would recommend reading this essay to almost anyone who has time for 64 pages of reading.

A look at the BS we face everyday. We have all met a person who has to 'one up' everyone with their BS. The interesting thing that I have noticed is that people who like to BS a lot can't stand it if they think someone is trying to BS them; they become hyper sensitive to the BS of other people. Great book on a little examined subject.
As pleasant a rainy Saturday morning read it all in one sitting book as I can ever remember experiencing. You might suspect from the title that the overall purpose of the book is to in some way appeal to the readers' sense of humor, but it is quite serious. Not that things serious are not without their appeals to a healthy sense of humor.Enthusiastically recommended.
Due to a politically apathetic populace, a Democratic party so intent on electing the first woman president that it completely overlooked and ignored a largely white working-class rural demographic that was---at one point---its own base, and a Republican party so overrun with politicians in the pockets of big-money special interests, an orange tiny-handed reality show host with a face permanently set in a scowl and/or in the throes of chronic constipation was, amazingly, elected to the highest office in the U.S. government.How this happened would probably take several “War and Peace”-length volumes to adequately dissect and explain, but suffice it to say that a significant portion of the explanation can be linked back to the fact that a large voting bloc of the American public simply grew sick and tired of all the bullshit.This is why voters in 2016 were attracted to candidates like Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump: nontraditional, irreverent, disinterested in playing by the rules.
Frankfurt is an in depth (maybe?) philosophical examination of bullshit.
Frankfurt looks at the definitions and concepts of lying, humbug, bull session, and so on, to compare various forms of "hot air" to bullshit.
He examines our need as humans to seem knowledgeable on various subjects, and therefore "bluff our way through" to try and seem knowledgeable to others.
Bullshit can be seen as an attempt to explore subjects intellectually, by teasing out definitions, and "muddling through" the idea in question by exploring the known and unknown of the particular topic or concept.
This very short book is a philosophical essay on the nature of bullshit.
The main question that Frankfurt appears to be answering is, "Is lying always bullshit and is bullshit always lying?".
The answer appears to be no and no.
He loses all connection between the truth and the lie.This is the basic revelation in Frankfurt's essay although it is much more fun reading his ideas on this than mine.
While not technically a spoiler I will avoid quoting them in order to give you the pleasure of reading them and discovering that Frankfurt has hit upon a major truth.
It is mere vapor.
No more information is communicated than if the speaker had merely exhaled.
There are similarities between hot air and excrement, incidentally, which make hot air seem an especially suitable equivalent for bullshit."In this very short work, perhaps essay, Frankfurt makes concise and believable distinctions between concepts that many people think to be interchangeable (ie.
Lying, humbug, bluffing, joshing in regards to bullshit).
An enjoyable and thoughtful read for people who tend to break down certain expressions (such as me) and wonder where the hell said expressions originated.
Frankfurt discusses the difference between bullshit and lies.
So in a sense bullshit is a greater enemy of the truth than lies are.
Frankfurt says that the reason BS is so common is because people are convinced that they are obligated to have opinions on everything, and so they pretend to understand issues they know very little about.
"Convinced that reality has no inherent nature, which he might hope to identify as the truth about things, [the individual] devotes himself to being true to his own nature." But what makes us think that our "true selves" are any more stable or determinate than facts about the world around us?
It's an unexpected form, to say the least, for a piece of writing with such a grand endeavor: to defend truth through deliberation on bullshit.Frankfurt is a keen thinker, and his writing reflects the depth and enthusiasm with which he engages the work.
Where one seeks to deny truth through overt falsity (thus acknowledging the existence of truth the way shadow proves the presence of things), the other, bullshit, is completely indifferent.
Or, as Frankfurt explains, "As conscious beings, we exist only in response to other things, and we can not know ourselves at all without knowing them...
For example: On Frankfurt's account, there are two necessary conditions for something to count as bullshit:(1) The speaker must be indifferent to the truth of what he says.(2) He must intend to deceive his audience about his indifference to the truth of what he says.
Even Frankfurt's example involving Wittgenstein and Fania Pascal lacks one of these two features: Pascal does not, in any obvious sense, intend to deceive Wittgenstein about her indifference to the truth of what she says ("I feel just like a dog that has been run over").
An anecdote of surly Wittgenstein taking issue with an improperly deployed simile leads to the inference that bullshit may be a form of discourse “unconnected to a concern with the truth” (30), as opposed to knowing misrepresentation.
BS is likened to “bluff” (46), and then the argument contends that “although it is produced without concern for the truth, it need not be false.
The liar by contrast “is unmistakenly concerned with truth-values.
For the bullshitter, “the truth-values of his statements are of no central importance” (55)—it is the rhetorical performance that matters.
Liars, at least, respect that there is a truth which they withhold or obscure, and their lies are vulnerable to confession or exposure and therefore defeat; bullshitters are careless shape-shifters, to communicate with them is to engage in shadow-boxing.
It feels right in the hearts of those who perpetuate (or buy into) it, because they don't care if what comes out of their mouths is true or not; you can't hold them accountable and their consciences won't needle them a bit, because to them it's a matter not of truth (a fact-seeking activity) but "sincerity", a slippery category of self-knowledge, which itself is an unattainable objective.
A very quick read.
The book is a mere 67 pages and the pages are very small.
It's a pocket book.
Well, I have to say it was a fun read but hardly worth buying.
I would have rather bought another of the many books I have lined up and would like to own.
Worth reading, but don't pay for it.
You could read it in the bookstore in about 20-30 minutes.
I read it while waiting for the bus tonight.
I still look forward to reading more substantial works of Frankfurt's though.
I like his style.
Shoulda bought one of those instead.
Frankfurt capitalizes on the potential for absurdity inherant in 'philosophical' texts.
What philosophy sometimes comes down to, or rather, what critiqing it comes down to, is how well you can dissect what someone is actually saying, moving past all of the bullshit of language.
The language used in this book is so dense at times that you might find it to be bullshit.
The funny thing is, that's the point.
He uses the language against itself.
He describes how something can be bullshit if it sounds legit.
More to the point, he proves that what may sound like bullshit is actually truth.
Common sense mixed in with some interesting thoughts and a provocative title. Ho-hum.
It's been a few months since I've read it.) and moves swiftly into an assessment of the liar's relationship to truth in comparison to the bullshiter's.
This is not a full exploration of what "truth" is and how i functions communally, or what distinguishes, for example, an outright lie from a 'white lie' or 'lie of omission.' He talks a little about why liars lie and suggests that compulsive liars do it for the pleasure, which I think is way off the mark, certainly as a generalization.
But I think he's on the mark in terms of why bullshitters bullshit.
