https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127876.Lincoln_the_Unknown
This book truly is a testament to old-style writing, hard work, exceptional research, and a smooth writing style. While some might find the book too short, lacking in detail, or difficult to read because of the 1930's writing, I found the book enrapturing, well-researched, interesting, and a quick, enthralling read. The author knew his facts nearly impeccably, and he wrote a very informative story. For anyone interested in the life of Abraham Lincoln, this will provide you with an excellent sketch of most of the main details of his life, in a easy-to-read manner.
He was generous, kind, funny, patient, a man of common sense and a man that felt deep sorrow and unhappiness.Some excerpts from the book:(p22)For years, there in Indiana, Abraham Lincoln endured more terrible poverty that did thousands of teh salves whom he would one day liliberate.(p133)Failure and defeat were not new experiences to Lincoln.
God Bless you" He cheered them, sat down and ate beans with them, revived their drooping spirits, and talked of brighter to-morrows.(p202) The great tragedy of Lincoln's life was not his assassination, but his marriage.(p214) The next day little Tad [Lincoln's son] asked a caller at the White house if his fathernwas in heaven.
This book dates from 1932, and much of the writing style and personal expression of the author also come from this time period (and are thus a bit dated), but, at the same time, the book could not have happened much later, as Carnegie still had access to people who knew the man himself!
These personal insights and stories are the strength of this book, and you can't help coming away from it admiring Lincoln's fortitude, patience, magnanimity, and indeed his greatness.
The facts would prove this well enough, but there is something infectious about Carnegie's own passion for Lincoln that makes this book an even more enjoyable read.
A great introductory volume on Lincoln.
A bit draggy But explains in detail of his sufferings
He was self-educated, collected books and loved to read.
She told people she was going to marry the next president of the US.
She was courting both Stephen Douglas and Abe Lincoln at the same time.
Lincoln's people touted him since he had already debated the Democratic nominee Douglas at length.So what did I learn from reading about Lincoln?
His "team of rivals" cabinet all thought they were better than him (Seward was his Secretary of State), and more deserving of being president.
He definitely had the "How to Win Friends and Influence People" part down, but could have learned some more about "How to Stop Worrying and Start Living".
Dale Carnegie illustrates Lincoln through stories and a thoughtful narration.
It is an eye-opening tale of how Abraham Lincoln's experiences built the character he would later need to save the Union.
Carnegie paints in the reader's mind a picture of a man whose strength comes from his unending meekness, humility, and integrity.Lincoln the Unknown makes itself easily accessible to any reader.
Its focus on the person over dates and details moves the reader quickly and easily though Lincoln's life.The insights into the man lead the reader to understand the meaning of Edwin Stanton's statement at the dying Lincoln's bedside: "There lies the most perfect ruler of men the world has ever seen."
Really good history of Lincoln and who he was. This book was written in 1932, so the author was able to talk to people who knew people who knew Lincoln. More a study of how his character was formed and the person who he was. What a difference between who Lincoln was before his presidency and current politics. Even at the time he was not a person who was viewed favorably by the political elite. However, he was so steadfastly true to his beliefs that he became a man highly respected, even by his contemporaries. Definitely recommended.
This was one of the most revealing, and interesting books on Lincoln I've ever read. Considering the handicaps and setbacks he had to deal with, it is all the more remarkable that Lincoln was able to secure the Republican nomination for President in 1860, win the general election in November of that year, and shepherd the nation through a bloody civil war, and save the Union. I enjoyed reading this book so much and recommend it to anyone who likes biographies.
Carnegie does an excellent job portraying who Lincoln was from childhood to adult to Presidency. I was amazed, entertained, and captivated by this Carnegie masterpiece. Lincoln truly was "A man of sorrows". Great book.
GREAT, interesting biography on Lincoln. Reads like a novel but is so very informative about the life and struggles of our 16th president. Obviously the author takes some liberties, but overall I felt it was an honest portrayal. It's hard to get your hands on a copy of this--but well worth it!
I like reading this book. It's not about leader but about man of family. It's the unknown part of Lincoln. Really great to have a chance of reading it.
I wanted to read this book for awhile. Received book as an award in my Dale Carnegie class. It provides a lot of interesting, little known information on Lincoln.
The book divides Lincoln's life into about four parts respectively: early experiences, elected president, American Civil War, and murdered.In addition, the book also introduces people who affected Lincoln most, such as his stepmother, His vice president, and his wife.
Lincoln never panicked, especially during the Civil War. Therefore, he became the one of the greatest presidents for the American history.
I think that Carnegie describes a lot of detail about the difference side about Lincoln rather that the part that we have already known.
The one of the most legendary presidents should be learned by everyone.
Lincoln's life is a gift from God for all of us, and I was personally inspired and strengthened as I read careful details about how he developed and grew from utmost poverty to become among the world's greatest men while he consciously added to the comfort and enjoyment of others.
This book deserves five stars except for the sadness of the civil war, the assassination, and the accounting for John Wilkes Booth and Mary Todd Lincoln, Abe's deranged wife, which had some tendency to take the leading edge from my reading appetite.
I read this book because it was mentioned in Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends & Influence People.
I had always admired Lincoln and I thought this would be an interesting read.
I was unprepared for what Dale Carnegie had presented.This book was a struggle.
I had no idea that Lincoln was such an underdog.
The character he must have had to remain so calm and so poetic in everthign he did.Dale Carnegie did a wonderful job of collecting the facts and painting the picture of a great man.This is a fantastic read and it now appears you can buy it again.
McClellan realized Pope had come to take his placePope led the army into Virginia for a great battle and needed as many men as he could get.
But after only a few months, McClellan refused orders to attack Lee after the Battle of Antietam, and Lincoln gave the command to the unwilling Burnside, who tried to refuse it, knowing he was unfit to lead.
As I read this book, I could not help but think that God brought two failures out of obscurity -- Lincoln and Grant -- and with them, in spite of all their failures and mistakes, saved the Union.
A master piece depicting Abe Lincoln's early life as a common man and his endeavor to lead a decent life. His heart living the principles of Aesop's fables. His persona of a politician with long withstanding vision to defend the union of American states. A beautifully weaved story of a undefeated champion who faced series of failures, a personal tragedy and losses he incurred in family to achieve what his heart was longing for the welfare of the nation.
Despite Lincoln being one of the most well-known presidents with dozens of volumes of literature cataloguing his life, this biography is brief and hits on all major points. It is one of the most thoroughly-researched yet succinct works of non-fiction I have ever read and strongly recommend it for anybody wanting to learn more about Lincoln and his life.
The title delivers, because the book provides an unconventional angle on the man behind the myth. The normal every day man who persisted on making something of himself and on doing the right thing. "God must love the common man because he sure made a lot of them" .....is a quote where you realize he sees himself as a very common man. A humbling read....
I really love this book and have read it at least 3 times. If you like Lincoln and that era of American history, this is something you'll definitely want to read. The little insights and stories make this very well written book a pleasure!
This is the book for Lincoln lovers. I am having trouble forming a cohesive review because I devoured this book. It was such a good, intimate look into Lincoln's life and strife. I highly recommend it to anyone.
This is hands down the best book I've read about Abraham Lincoln.
Great insight into how Lincoln became the man we love and revere.
A sympathetic, easily-assimilated overview of America's greatest president. Carnegie introduces little-known background details from Lincoln's life that serve to make his achievements—as a man and as our 16th president—even more towering and dramatic.
This is my favorite book about Lincoln. It is an exciting read that really keeps you going. Not one page is boring. I highly recommend it!
This book is one of the main reasons why I adore and respect Ape Lincoln so bad.
Great book. Made this son of the confederacy a fan of Lincoln. Shows how suffering makes a great man.
In past, I have read about Carnegie's obsession with Abe Lincoln and I thought his written words on his favorite personality might satisfy my desperation.To some extent, it did.
Carnegie illustrates Lincoln through a thoughtful narration and try to give insights more on his personality rather than 'what happened when'.
Although, this information might have been more suitable if the author had given more insight on the person on whom the book is about.Overall, the book's an average read and cover facts to son extent but don't consider it as the book that gives in-depth perception on Abe Lincoln.3 out of 5!
so maybe it was written in the stars) has increased beyond idealisation.My only beef with Carnegie, was his complete villianisation of Mrs Lincoln.
My sympathies for the horrible marriage that proceeded are limited...Carnegie offers no leniency towards Mrs Lincoln and her awareness of Lincoln's previous love for Anne, and no sympathy for what it was like living as a woman during the 1800s.
Similarly, Carnegie goes into great detail about the grief Lincoln felt when he lost three of his four children, but barely touches on their mother's despair.
