https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1038590.Immortality_Inc_
To me, Sheckley reads a bit like PKD sans the drug-fueled, reality-warping plot aspects for which the master was known.
Thomas wakes up in the year 2110 to discover that his mind has been rescued and brought forward into the future where it has been given a new body.
What Thomas finds, and what the rest of the short novel explores, is a society that has proven the existence of life after death.
It is then explained to Thomas that, through a combination of science application and eastern philosophies such as yoga, the energy web can be strengthened to the point that it survives the death trauma.
Si sveglia poi, ma il mondo non è più quello che ricordava, infatti Thomas si ritrova...Romanzo di fantascienza sociologica dove Sheckley ci racconta cosa potrebbe succedere se una parte importante della vita, la morte, possa essere messa in secondo piano e quindi resa superflua, dando all'umanità una "seconda opzione", ovviamente sotto cospicuo pagamento, e cioè una "vita" dopo la morte: l'aldilà.La storia è scritta in modo magnifico, mi sono sentito partecipe durante tutta la avventura/storia.
L'altra è l'aspirazione di tutte le autorità a reprimere ora l'una ora l'altra di queste forme.Il governo reprime e limita la libertà per vari motivi.
Great book and amazing plot. Glad to see tribute to Sheckley in Futurama: Suicide booths, and Mars taken over by Chinese colonists is from this book :)
This is s lively book, Blaine exudes that film noir ‘50’s vibe of a guy who doesn’t need or want anyone’s help.
Only, of course, he does need help, being human, and he finds it in alliances with terrific characters.
Sheckley dives into psychology, how does a guy handle finding a job 150 years in the future and how does that make him feel?
And of course there are plenty of neurotics around, people who’d louse up heaven itself.
The description says the movie "Freejack" was based on this novel, but only on the very basic idea.
So Sheckley takes an average man out of the past & puts him into a slightly used body in the future.
It's a corporate publicity stunt that runs into some legal trouble, so it never really takes off, but this poor schmuck is stuck & has to deal with the new world.It's a great look at the human condition.
He's kicked the legs out from under Death itself & that reveals a lot about humanity, especially through our time-lagged main character.There's some real weirdness in this high tech world.
His new body though will be harvested again for an aging wealthy businessman.
Oh yeah, and there's a zombie after him.The novel is actually very funny and the future New York and future earth seems plausible.
The film does have some points of similarity with the novel.
Everything else in the film has nothing in common with Sheckley's novel.I see another (and much better) adaptation giving to a nod or two to Immortality Inc., namely, Futurama and it's vision of New New York.
Here are points of similarities:Click here to see the table.I recommend fans of Futurama and aficionados of pulp science fiction read Immortality Inc.
He is proof that a being can be transferred from one body to another--he remembers his death, but obviously has a new life in a new body.
These people "donate" their bodies to those who want to live on, but don't have good bodies to live in.
You see the rise of a drug market called "transplant" where a being can trade places with or join in the mind of others, to see how other people live and experience the world.
Sheckley explores the ramifications for the living, such as the loved ones of those who donate their bodies.

He is brought back to life in a new body in 2110.
This is a good example of old school science fiction with quasi-scientific sounding explanations for things, but it's really an excuse to examine what it is to be human.
Blaine's encounters are numerous: with the large corporation that brought him back to life, the smiling procurer that dopes him up to steal his body, various zombies and ghosts that inhabit the fringes of future society, as well as hunters, sailors, and businessmen of many stripes.
Through them all we see a future for humanity that is eerily possible and at times very likely.
A great and short novel, where the protagonists is snatched by a corporation from 1958 and awakens in a new body in the 2110s, a world where life after death is scientifically proven and, ironically but unsurprinsingly, commercialized.
Oh, and ghosts and zombies are real.
Not only that, but normal, everyday occurences.
Actually, two of our hero's best friends are a ghost and a zombie.
The book is both fun and smart, as it explores the implications of scientific afterlife on society and individual psychology alike.
But it's also a great adventure and, at times, thriller.
Tom Blaine, an uninventive junior yacht designer, is killed in a car accident in 1958, but he is resurrected in the year 2110 by the powerful Rex corporation as a "gimmick in a marketing campaign." That falls through, and Blaine finds himself alone in a changed world.
Here, the secret to the afterlife has been scientifically discovered, rich men form suicide pacts when they grow bored of Earthly life, and hire professional "hunters" by whose hand they will die-- the more dramatic the death, the better.
I like to read sci fi written in the 50s because all the forward thinking in the world cannot wrap their mind around women in the workplace lol. In this future, women did work but his love interest longed to be a housewife of the 50 s. lol
A 1959 novel, this tells how Thomas Blaine, yacht designer, is transported to the year 2110 after a car crash which it later turns out was deliberately engineered - at least, his mind is transported.
He wakes up in the body of another man into a nightmare situation where he has been brought forward as an advertising publicity stunt for the Rex Corporation.
Things go from bad to worse when the director of the company cancels the advertising campaign on the grounds that it is now illegal to bring people back from the past - it has been done several times before from different historical periods.
Originally serialized as Time Killer, this is Robert Sheckley's first novel.
Making the assumption that there is something after life, he looks at how society changes, from suicide booths to legalized person hunts.
Very influential to the television show Futurama, and loosely so to a movie called Freejack.The exploration of future society is good, and the characters are interesting.
One key part of the plot, the time travel mechanism that brings the consciousness of our protagonist to the future of 2110, is never explained.
This is a problem when the novel focuses on it towards the end.I confess I have never seen Freejack, and based on the reviews, probably never will.
Like most of the best sci-fi of its time, Immortality Inc. is full of far-fetched, ahead-of-its time ideas (like consciousness transfer) - with a soupçon of sexism and a dash of Eastern spirituality. I really enjoyed it (the book reminded me considerably of Altered Carbon). The pseudoscience is a little over the top, but honestly, it’s a sci-if book about switching minds and bodies. Even contemporary science fiction sounds pretty silly attempting to explain such things, so perhaps the author’s decision to focus on metaphysical matters was a good choice!
I read it in m junior high school and watched the movie, Mick Jaggar appeared in it.
Sci-Fi, the world of the future (as seen by a 50s writer...and character), transfer of the soul and so on...what's there to not like then?
It has a great character to start off with, some intrigues here and there, and the whole world of 2110 to deal with.
As such, the book felt really fragmented, with very little flow from one event to the other, as the character was pushed into sampling anything and everything.
Of course I could see it coming...the character had to experience everything the time had to offer so the ending was really inevitable.
Thomas soon discovers that he has been snatched from the moment of death, transported to the year 2110 and deposited into a host body to be a part of an advertising campaign by the Rex Corporation, a manufacturer of power systems.
And he can keep the body, or so he is lead to believe.Thomas is a yacht designer from the year 1958; everything in this future world is foreign to him.
It’s a good example of how much science fiction writing has changed in the past 50 years.I listened to the audiobook which was wonderfully performed by Bronson Pinchot.
He is exposed to the rhetoric of fanatical religious movements, attempts to join a show as a primitive man from the 19th century, meets colonies of humans whose minds incorrectly entered new bodies and thus move and think more akin to zombies, he finally finds employment designing vintage yachts all before the main plot threads, concerning another mind that wants to steal his body, come to fruition.Final ThoughtsAs with his short from the same year, “The Prize of Peril,” where the participants risk sign away their lives to the whims of the audience in a futuristic television program, Sheckley’s ruminations on death are fascinating.
A man dies in the Fifties and is resurrected one and a half centuries later.
He wakes to a world of suicide booths, of a Mars colonised by China, of entire plant ecologies that devour themselves for the entertainment of restaurant patrons, of mindswapping, of zombies and poltergeists and werewolves, and of frustratingly antiquated gender roles.I didn’t like this book.
The man decides to romance her out of spite, and predictably she gives in.Still, the suicide boothes and overall plot were likely to have inspired Futurama, and that was great show.
I thoroughly enjoyed both Sheckley's writing and Bronson Pinchot's narration of this darkly humorous dystopian mash-up.
The story begins with the accidental death of the protagonist in a traffic accident in 1958, with the bulk of the action taking place after Blaine's mind is placed in a new body in 2110.
A wild ride ensues -- trust no one.Combines several popular tropes: transmigration of minds / reincarnation, corporate manipulation of the state, zombies, hauntings, and humans hunting humans.
Spoofy references to the mind/body problem, class & race issues and some classic philosophical conundrums.
Feels something like Bellamy's Looking Backward only darker and dystopic instead of utopian.
Although this sci-fi novel has an original plot and a very good construction, where all the loose ends are finally tightly bound and everything occupies its proper place, even with a somewhat moral ending, I'm afraid I cannot give it more than two stars.
I feel a strong dislike about its central theme, the scientific hereafter, that makes it impossible for me to empathize with the novel, to lower my level of incredulity.
I find myself thinking, once and again, this cannot be, this is all a fake.I'm sorry for this, for I like very well many of Robert Sheckley's short stories, but there's something in his long novels that doesn't click for me.
The story of a man, who is killed in an automobile accident in 1958, snatched up by a giant corporation, and transported 150 years into a future in which scientists have discovered the secret of immortality.
His mind has been separated and placed into a new body as part of the company’s marketing campaign, but as the plans for the campaign are discarded, his new body is to be harvested yet again and given to a rich and ageing businessman.
At its best, when considering the philosophical questions of who and what we are, but slightly tiresome when trying to be funny.
After watching Free Jack, I decided to look for the book it was (very slightly) based on. Although at times it was a bit schlocky (and at other times, it was obviously written in the 1950s), I found myself drawn into the story. It's a lighthearted exploration of some big ideas about life and death, the mind and body, and the future. Bronson Pinchot did an excellent job narrating.
Total garbage, the story if you can call it that, weaves all over the place like a drunk lout. A lot of promising ideas.. are ruined in this story. Blech
Жестока! Горещо препоръчвам :)
This book is filled with strange ideas of the future stemming from the perspective of an author writing in the late 1950s.
I read and watch a fair amount of science fiction from the previous century but never have I seen such a distinguishable juxtaposition of out of date and futuristic values and technology.
Sheckley was able to make some correct predictions about the development of social movements in his future world (such as growing feminism--although some of the ideals of the 1950s still come across through his writing--and lessening religious beliefs).
Immortality Inc presupposes a world where not only has the afterlife been shown scientifically to exist, but your entry to it is guaranteed provided you can afford to pay for it.
Minds can also be decanted from one body to another - giving the wealthy a second way to avoid death.
Zombies, ghosts and poltergeists become logical scientific outcomes in this world, and the author has fun with all these ideas.
This isn't as good a book as Sheckley's Dimension of Miracles or Mindswap, but pretty entertaining, and it has dated far better than most science fiction from its era (first published 1959).
This is probably the aspect I enjoyed most, the fact that the end of every chapter really compelled me to continue reading.
I enjoyed the story and the world Sheckley constructed, despite the book being somewhat short.
Some of the choices made by the characters at the end didn't seem entirely genuine, even though they helped get the story where it needed to go.As with any strong science fiction, there is some pontificating on larger themes.
I definitely enjoyed the book.
I can see why this book is a Hugo nominee, and I'm glad to have read it.
These books are the kinds of reads someone might've put in their bags and taken to the beach in the 1950's.
It's hard to call this 'speculative' fiction because even though it takes place in 2110, there's very little of the 'digital' world in this.
It’s about a man pulled into the future from 1958 and put into a new body.
It can be a little disturbing sometimes but it’s a world that really hooks you in.I didn’t know about the ‘Freejack’ and even the ‘Futurama’ connections to this book before I read it.
