https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67344.Human_Knowledge
Almost everything in this book has been dealt with by Russell in greater detail and to greater length in previous works, but, regardless, the synthesis here is impeccable. He has taken the question of knowledge, combined with insights and emendations from earlier works, and constructed his most comprehensive epistemological statement. The only significant criticism I have is that he seemed to have forgotten he was writing for the general public during the section on probability.
Why not learn epistemology from Bertrand Russell? :D He makes it accessible to everyone. It would be a good book for someone who wanted to start reading Russell.
There's a lot to learn from Bertrand Russell.
That’s why Human Knowledge, his last “big book” dealing with epistemology, is such a surprise.We’re sure more in-depth studies of this book exists and that there even fans of it out there, but if you ask us, this is a very very boring book.
And it’s easy to say why.
Russell here is dissecting different aspects of human knowledge (for lack of a better term) and just seems to go on and on discussing and unraveling how we know what we know but uses pure philosophy to do so.
So, it’s hard to follow, super repeatitive, and mind-tearingly boring.
Science is about trying to make observations about the world and express it in terms of a language/notation accessible to public.
But epistemology tries to look at it the other way around.
Trying to express common knowledge in terms of data accessible only to the individual - such as sensory data.
It is in a way, the individuals attempt to understand how common knowledge is derived from their own perceptions.
The first part of the book which addresses these issues was very interesting.
The latter part - the one on probability felt a bit outdated and the justifications for Inferential knowledge a bit unsatisfactory.
Russell has an acute style of tackling epistemological discussions. The thing I loved about this book is that its language is simple but comprehensive. BR introduces a problem in simple words and gradually he takes the reader to a point where he can atleast get the idea behind the discussion if not fully grab the whole. In intro he mentioned that this book is for both philosophers and enthusiasts, and I being a non-philosophy guy can second that, the only thing that gave me a hardtime was the chapter on probability.
