https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43325.Nothing_Lasts_Forever
Nothing Lasts Forever, Sidney Sheldon This medical thriller tells the story of three female doctors trying to prove themselves in a profession dominated by men.
Each of them has their own story, and each of their tales are well connected and intertwined with each other.
سه دکتر جوان با امیدها، رؤیاها و آرزوهای خارج از انتظارشان، که هر یک داستان خود را دارد، اما سرگذشت هرکدام به خوبی با سرنوشت دیگری پیوند خورده است.
It actually shocked me that I haven't really reviewed any book from my favorite author.
Let me continue reading you." So this story was mainly about a female doctor who had a patient who seemingly hates her.
And this certain patient had asked the doctor to kill him because 'he can't take the pain anymore', and so she did.
The chapters, aside from the prologue mainly tells what happened before the event until the end of the event.Actually, the story wasn't really appealing for me.
I like this author mainly because of his writing style.
I cried when I finished reading the novel, and the book spoke to me and said, Nothing Lasts Forever.
And in the novel, our beautiful protagonist is half-heartedly a Pro-Euthanasia.Moreover, the book tackles 
Pledging to the oath is an act of one who, when lawfully required to tell the truth, takes God to witness that what he says is true.
Therefore, when one takes oath he/she made a binding promise to God to do or say something lawfully and ethically.
The characters are all winsome, especially the protagonist, one of the female doctors, Paige Turner.
It was my 2nd Sidney Sheldon book and I don't care what anyone says to me but I'm flattered with the scene where Jason Curtis meets Paige Taylor. I read this part over and over again.What I liked about this book was that it was about 3 girls, who are so professional and independence-lover and how they live their life with so much confidence and deal with problems.I can't wait to read more of his work.
Sidney Sheldon at his best! Nothing Lasts Forever is a powerful story of three female protagonists. The characterization is simply wonderful. Dialogues are precise. A recommended read!
پرمشغله هستند و زندگی شخصی شان معمولا از هم پاشیده است.
کارشان بسیار حساس است و چون جان بیماران در دستان آن هاست، گاها احساس می کنند، خدا هستند.
نسبت به هم حسادت دارند و سعی می کنند دیگری را خراب کنند.در چنین شرایطی سه پزشک زن، تلاش می کنند هم پزشک خوبی باشند هم زندگی خوبی داشته باشندمکالمه دو پزشک:ما هر کاری می تونستیم انجام دادیم.
حالا زندگی اون به لطف خدا بستگی داره.عجیبه!
یهودی ها نسبتا سنتی هستند.
یهودی ها مثل مسلمون ها، مرده رو در اسرع وقت کفن می کنن و به خاک می سپارن.چینی ها مثل ما ایرانی ها، مرده رو به محل هایی که مرحوم به اون دلبستگی داشته، می برن.

Sidney Sheldon is a first time read for me and I have to ask myself why I had never picked up one of his books before now.
I was totally engrossed in the story and really hated for it to end.In this book we have the stories of 3 different female doctors working in the same hospital.
The author writes the hospital with such realism that readers can visualize themselves there among the doctors, patients and their families.
I felt so strongly for them, each one in a different way, and I love when an author can do that for his readers.
He delivered a fast paced keep you on the tip of your toes turning the pages as fast as you can story.
With every page you turned there was so much more going on.
to no end..I loved those women doctors especially during a time that women were not allowed to be doctors and they succeeded.The ending I was not expecting.
I screamed when I got to that part of the story (Ill save it for you to read) She was the least that I expected and that is what made this story different from his others because sometimes Sheldon can be so predictable.
Como es usual en los libros de este autor es una historia muy entretenida que se lee de un tirón, un thriller ambientado en un Hospital de San Francisco en el que 3 jóvenes médicas deberán luchar contra la discriminación de los hombres, muchos secretos e intrigas, lo recomiendo para pasar un buen rato absorbido por sus páginas!
After all, I grew up reading Sherlock Holmes rather than reading Princess stories.All through out my high school year, I read all of Sidney Sheldon's books starting with Tell Me Your Dreams.
Sheldon can do that to you.Nothing Lasts Forever is one of my favorite books.
I don't know why she has a Sheldon book.
Honestly.But the book-gods love me so much.You know what happened?
She get to maintain her grades.Happy ever after.So back to the book.Nothing lasts forever is a total mind-fuck book.
All of Sheldon's books are mind-fucks actually.
The story, set against hospital and courtroom, chronicles their lives together and their struggle against those who are determined to see that they don't succeed.Dr. Paige Taylor - After she inherited a million dollars from a patient whom she 'helped to die' at their request, the District Attorney charged her with murder.Dr. Kat Hunter - She vowed never to allow a man to get too close to her again...until she accepted the challenge of a deadly bet.Dr. Honey Taft - To make it in medicine, she knew that she'd need something more then the brains God gave her.From the life-and-death decisions faced in the operating room to the tension-packed fireworks of a murder trial, Nothing Lasts Forever by Sidney Sheldon lays bare the ambitions and fears of healers and killers, lovers and betrayers.I really enjoyed this book.
I do so enjoy Sidney Sheldon as an author, even though I have just recently got back into reading his books after an hiatus of several years.
সিডনী শেলডনের সাথে পরথম পরিচয় দয সযানডস অফ টাইম আর উইনডমিলস অফ দয গডস দিয়ে। পরথম বই তেই আমাকে উনি উনার ভকত বানিয়ে ফেলেন। ২ বছরের মাঝে উনার সব বই আমি পড়ে শেষ করে ফেলেছি। কয়েকটা বই আমার টরেজার - এইটা তাদের একটা। হয়ত পরফেশনের সাথে মিল আছে বলেই বইটা এত ভাল লাগে।উনার বই সমপরকে নতুন করে বলার কিছু নেই। পরায় সবগুলোই শুরুর দিকের পড়ুয়াদের জনয অসাধারণ। কয়েকটা ঝানু পড়ুয়াকেও মুগধ করবে। এই বইটা উনার গতানুগতিক বই থেকে একটু ভিনন। কোরট টরায়াল দিয়ে শুরু আর শেষ সমভবত এটা ছাড়া খালি মেমরীজ অফ মিডনাইট। সমৃতিচারণ মুলক

just remember read this book at 12yoand love it
καλουτσικο !! το τελειωσα σε μια μερα...ετσι για αλλαγη!! ααααα και ολα τα κρατικα νοσοκομεια τα ιδια μπ@@ρδελα ειναι
The book is fast paced alright but Sheldon didnt fail to let me see whats really going on inside an operating room and how women are treated when they step inside a man's dominated profession (which I dont know if still the same case on today's era). The typical Sheldon finale surely blowed my mind because it was the 'she's-screwed-and-hopeless' scene but again he casted his own magic. Im not trying to be smartsy pantsy on this review but Sheldon did a great job and after reading this novel I cant help but vomit words to praise him. :D
I've never read any Sidney Sheldon before, but he does a wonderful job of drawing the plot along.
Most mysteries are pretty straight forward -- sure there are plot twists, and the mystery may be hard to guess, but the way the story itself is written is pretty straight forward.
In this book the author actually switches it up a bit, starting the story with a scene from the court case which leaves you with one possible interpretation of the facts, and you spend the rest of the novel learning whether or not it's the correct interpretation.
Zanimljiv roman, brzo se čita, nije najbolji Sidnijev ali mi se svideo.
Sidni dobro piše, to ne mogu da poreknem, ali nije za čistu peticu, možda 4.25.
Volim to što se javlja dosta ljubavi prema poslu, ljubavi prema porodici, požrtvovanosti, predanog rada, borbe protiv rasizma (kojeg je nekada bilo dosta prema ženama doktorima a i ima ga još uvek prema crnim ženama doktorima) ali i mogućnosti podmićivanja osoba na višim položajima, kao i pritisak koji vrši porodica/roditelji na budućnost deteta (kod Hani), ili slučaj kad volimo osobu koja se promenila i nije više onakva kakvu smo je znali..
kao i mnogih drugih..
I liked it so much that i re-read a couple more times.Several years later, when I started reading English; I borrowed this from my roommate.
And it was just as entertaining in English - even though I knew the story by heart.And then again, I bought a copy for my personal library.But then I gave away all the books.What I am trying to say is, I love the book.
I love the three friends and their struggle in the hospital and crazy shifts.
And then the crazy life after one of them is killed.Terrific.
Este já é o terceiro livro que leio do Sidney Sheldon e como as outras obras, adorei. Gosto do começo já ativo e sem descanso. E se estende assim até o final do livro. Quando você acha que vai melhorar a vida dos personagens, não é bem assim que acontece e na última frase de algum parágrafo, tudo muda. Bem, mais um livro que prende a atenção, de leitura agradável e rápida.
Сега ми звучи малко странен и поостарял стила на автора, но преди години чаках с нетърпение да се появи всеки негов роман.Прилича ми малко на безкрайните американски сериали , които вървяха по телевизията.След изчетените безброй книги, вероятно съм станала и прекалено взискателна.Но едно не може да му се отрече - държи те в напрежение до край.
I really enjoyed the book but the ending wasn't as good as I expected.
در سالن انتظار دكتري كه پيشش وقت داشتم شروعش كردم و وقتي تموم شد هنوز نوبت من نشده بود!! . :)
Great story of betrayal, deceit, greed, but also loyalty, love, and patience of Doctors in County Hospital in San Francisco. It definitely shows you how different people actually are.
Greys Anatomy meets HTGAWM <3 (infelizmente, o autor conta, em poucas páginas, histórias que caberiam em, no mínimo, 5 temporadas dessas séries, não se aprofundando em diversas questões). Bem novelão, mas muito entertaining!
Grey´s Anatomy meets HTGAWM <3 (infelizmente, o autor conta, em poucas páginas, histórias que caberiam em, no mínimo, 5 temporadas dessas séries, não se aprofundando em diversas questões). Bem novelão, mas muito entertaining!
Or at the very least this needs to have been a 90s thing.**At one point there is a line about a doctor, nicknamed 007, who the book says "[takes] out organs that were healthy." In what world would NO ONE in a hospital do anything about this?!
And then when everyone gets paged and has to go back to saving lives, (y'know, that thing they do IN A HOSPITAL) one of them actually says, "I can't believe what's happening."CAN'T YOU?**Kat introduces herself as follows:"I'm Kate Hunter.
And apparently at this point he already thinks he's going to marry her.For their second date, he takes her to MEET HIS PARENTS.
And then you are left with doctors like Arthur Kane who can operate on your good kidney leaving you on dialysis forever.Secondly, when a doctor works for such long hours, he/she is surely to feel frustrated and this is not good for it leaves no time for themselves or their families and this might lead to some disastrous results as was the case with Tom Chang.It was also inspiring to read of the childhood of Paige and especially of her father.
I don't think I can give it any stars....can't say I liked but can't say I didn't like it either, because it sure was entertaining!
We won't even get into how horrible the medical facts are.
He either didn't listen close enough, or maybe things really were different in the early 90s, who knows?If there is one thing this novel has taught me, it's to never read Sheldon again.
And I think he's dead now, so that shouldn't be a problem.Fine since I can't seem to talk myself out of leaving the stars blank, I'm giving it 2.
داستان درباره سه پزشك زن است. دكتر پيچ تيلور جراح قلب متهم به قتل بيماري كه از او يك ميليون دلار به ارث برده است. دكتر كيث ترنر سياهپوست، بسيار خوشاندام و از مردان فراري. دكتر هاني تافت ا زخانوادهاي سرشناس پر از راز و رمز. آنها به مدت پنج سال در بيمارستان امباركادر در سانفرانسيسكو كار ميكردند و با هم همخانه بودند. داستان در دادگاه و بيمارستان ميگذرد. زمانيكه پيج در دادگاه براي نجات زندگي خود ميجنگد، داستان به عقب بازميگردد و رازها گشوده ميشوند.
داستان درباره سه پزشك زن است. دكتر پيچ تيلور جراح قلب متهم به قتل بيماري كه از او يك ميليون دلار به ارث برده است. دكتر كيث ترنر سياه‌پوست، بسيار خوش‌اندام و از مردان فراري. دكتر هاني تافت ا زخانواده‌اي سرشناس پر از راز و رمز. آنها به مدت پنج سال در بيمارستان امباركادر در سانفرانسيسكو كار مي‌كردند و با هم همخانه بودند. داستان در دادگاه و بيمارستان مي‌گذرد. زمانيكه پيج در دادگاه براي نجات زندگي خود مي‌جنگد، داستان به عقب بازمي‌گردد و رازها گشوده مي‌شوند.
I'll admit it, it was fluff, but I really enjoyed it.
