https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464260.The_Fire_Next_Time
Baldwin doles out some tough love to the American people, 100 years after Emancipation, and also writes to his 14-year old nephew about the race issue in America.
Muhammad saw Caucasians as "white devils" while Baldwin's view was “whoever debases others is debasing himself.”  Despite the fact that I am a Christian, I agree wholeheartedly with Baldwin’s analysis of the Christian church at the time, its racism (black people are a cursed race, descendants of Ham) and its hypocrisy.
As a writer during the Harlem Renaissance and the Civil Rights Movement, I feel Baldwin felt the real need to get things off his chest.
Sadly because the position of the black man in the America of white racism has not been remedied.
Baldwin diagnosed this precisely: "It is the individual uncertainty on the part of white American men and women, this inability to renew themselves at the fountain of their own lives, that makes the discussion let alone elucidation , of any conundrum - that is, any reality - so supremely difficult.

If we do not now dare everything, the fulfillment of that prophesy, re-created from the Bible in a song by a slave, is upon us:"God gave Noah the rainbow sign, No more water, the fire next time!"- James Baldwin, The Fire Next TimeI just couldn't watch the second GOP debates tonight.
So I turned my TV off, tuned out, and read me some James Baldwin.
Or perhaps, it has been these last couple years of official violence directed at the poor and the black in many of our biggest cities (St Louis, Baltimore, Las Angeles, New York).
Perhaps, it was reading the Old Testament with my own teenage children that pushed me in this direction.
Like a balance sheet it concisely details the nation's racial strengths and (considerable) shortcomings.
It was published one year before LBJ's Great Society program passed Congress, which, for the first time in the nation's history, sought to address longstanding racial injustices.
Baldwin describes the unrelenting degradation faced by black Americans, both white indifference and murderous hostility toward them, in a spare, unadorned prose whose effect is harrowing.
At the time of its publication it must have scared bigoted white people shitless.
That is not to say that today we are without racial problems.
The fear that I heard in my father’s voice, for example, when he realized that I really believed I could do anything a white boy could do, and had every intention of proving it, was not at all like the fear I heard when one of us was ill or had fallen down the stairs or strayed too far from the house.
He reacts to the fear in his parents’ voices because his parents hold up the world for him and he has no protection without them...That summer, in any case, all the fears with which I had grown up, and which were now a part of me and controlled my vision of the world, rose up like a wall between the world and me, and drove me into the church.
Fantastic. Required reading.
Written during the battle for Civil Rights in the early 60s, Baldwin's impassioned call to action in The Fire Next Time is unmistakable.
Racism in America has had a devastating effect on African Americans and White Americans.
Baldwin challenges us to see past the signs (Colored and White) which divide us.
However, such thinking traps them in a history or story which doesn't make sense and further detaches them from reality.
States Baldwin, "They are, in effect, still trapped in a history which they do not understand, and until they understand it, they cannot be released from it." Baldwin's words are still powerful.
No doubt I am guilty of some injustice here, but it is irreducible, since I cannot risk assuming that the humanity of these people is more real to them than their uniforms.- James Baldwin in 1964Fuck the police coming straight from the undergroundA young nigga got it bad cause I'm brownAnd not the other color, so police thinkThey have the authority to kill a minority- Ice Cube in 1988The police departments of your country have been endowed with the authority to destroy your body.
It does not matter if the destruction is the result of an unfortunate overreaction...Resent the people trying to entrap your body and it can be destroyed.- Ta-Nehisi Coates in 2015It feels like there's only one new thing about the Black Lives Matter movement, and that's cell phones.
Power over an American Black's life depended on several areas: his education, employment, and income --including his place in society, his self- image, and his relations with white people.
He claimed dejectedly, "The Negroes of this country may never be able to rise to power, but they are very well placed indeed to precipitate chaos and ring down the curtain on the American dream.(337)The only thing white people have that black people need or should want is power - and no one holds power forever."(341-342)Clearly, his vision at that time to prophesy the ability of the human conscience to morally and socially evolve, was dimmed.
Something very sinister happens to the people of a country when they begin to distrust their own reactions as deeply as they do here, and become as joyless as they have become. It is this individual uncertainty on the part of white American men and women, this inability to renew themselves at the fountain of their own lives, that makes the discussion, let alone elucidation, of any conundrum—that is, any reality—so supremely difficult. The person who distrusts himself has no touchstone for reali
Such amateur readings like mine, of course, will be questioned, and while I have neither a degree in literature (or any, for that matter) nor fluency in the Russian language, these gatekeeping quibbles mean very little indeed when placed alongside the literature of black US Americans.
White people in this country will have quite enough to do in learning how to accept and love themselves and each other, and when they have achieved this—which will not be tomorrow and may very well be never—the Negro problem will no longer exist, for it will no longer be needed.
Wow.Why isn't this mandatory reading?I don't get it.
All I want to do is shout and tell everyone to read it.
I don't know whether some people think it is outdated, but if that is the case, I would like to say that it isn't.
I was reading this book and thinking about the state of America, right now.
Thinking about the Black American experience, right now.
I want to share my favourite passages from this book, especially the second and longer essay, but I will have to return to do that.Have I said 'Uncle Jimmy the gawd' yet?
Well, gahdamn, gahdamn, gahdamn.Uncle Jimmy da Gawd.
You must put yourself in the skin of a man who is wearing the uniform of his country, is a candidate for death in its defense, and who is called a “nigger” by his comrades-in-arms and his officers; who is almost always given the hardest, ugliest, most menial work to do; who knows that the white G.I. has informed the Europeans that he is subhuman (so much for the American male’s sexual security); who does not dance at the U.S.O. the night white soldiers dance there, and does not drink in the same bars white soldiers drink in; and who watches German prisoners of war being treated by Americans with more human dignity than he has ever received at their hands.
And the kingdom of God is a place where there is understanding and compassion, and, therefore, suffering should exist."Earlier, in the letter to his nephew, Baldwin talks about the realities behind the words acceptance and integration: "There is no reason for you to try to become like white people and there is no basis whatever for their impertinent assumption that they must accept you.
Coincidentally, I had this opened at the same time I read Maya Angelou's The Heart of a Woman, where I came across James Baldwin, or "Jim," sharing a taxi with Maya Angelou and her former husband, during the heat of the literary movement of the late 1950s to 1960s.
It's an unexplainable feeling, to come across a classic-great at the onset of his or her career, when he or she is an unknown writer and social activist; when James Baldwin is merely a quiet onlooker in a crowd of human rights protesters, an onlooker who saves his fire for next time.Watch out for the quiet ones, for their words burn like blistered wounds: 
Nothing less than AWESOME! James Baldwin was a brilliant man and writer. I can't wait to get through all of his work. This is definitely a must read for everyone.

I began with this short book, composed of a letter to his nephew and a longer essay, that deals head-on with the “racial nightmare” of the United States (to use Baldwin’s own words).
The author describes the suffocating Harlem of his youth, his disappointment with trying to find salvation through religion and his own conflicting feelings about Nation of Islam founder Elijah Muhammad.
The book is vital, not because of its description of the Civil Rights era, but because Baldwin’s analysis of race relations can so easily be applied to the present.
— Ines Bellinafrom The Best Books We Read In March 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/04/04/riot-r...
The book is a collection of two publications: a letter to his nephew on the 100th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation and an article in which he recounts his time as a pentecostal minister and his encounters with Elijah Muhammad and Malcolm X as well as the NOI movement up to that point (1963).If there was a main argument that was to be made by this book it is this: "Thou SHALL love thy neighbor." Baldwin loved people, not like but loved.
First read in 2008.This book is so beautiful and clear.
He outlines and touches on so many of the issues that are still real and painful in America and in the UK too, where white supremacy persists like a weed that keeps springing back up.
It's almost depressing to read his words in 1963, words of courageous optimism and hope, and see that we have failed, White people have failed to 'end the racial nightmare'Baldwin's formulation of the issues here is brief, poetic, rich and heartfelt, and the ideas are still instrumental.
If all of this book were history, that would be a good thing.
How do you write a review for ANY work by James Baldwin? The Fire Next Time...?You don’t! Amazing, untimely, and hauntingly prophetic. Massively tiny tome of brilliance.Should be read by every human being on the planet!
Everybody should read this book.
Not only because it is extremely written, not repetetive (like some essays can be), to the point and just bloody brilliant but above all because sadly it is still relevant.
If you think that musings of a black gay man reflecting on America in the 50s somehow have nothing to do with you then do yourself a favour and read it.
It is only 80 pages, not like I am asking you to read War and Peace.I want to believe that the World has come a long way since the 50s.
So let's keep reading.
I would feel my fists didn't break themselves against theunmovable when the tired voice walked both sides this way.
I don't knowwhere you should go but I had this shadow following me of what couldhave happened if the church hadn't offered their four walls plus moresides to hold in more houses the primordial breathlessness.
But I think my throat hurt most when talking what I always wanted to say about the movement towards the pillow cold floors.
When you feel the answer no, no, no and there is no one to ask in their flesh walls surrounding you.
#BlackLivesMatter  “Please try to remember that what they believe, as well as what they do and cause you to endure does not testify to your inferiority but to their inhumanity.”  I have never really suffered through racism, well, not until I started wearing hijab. But before that I did not, I grew up in an European-white family, in a town filled with white people and a few people of colour, but because of the country I grew up, and the wonderful family I had, I was raised to know that everyone
But before that I did not, I grew up in an European-white family, in a town filled with white people and a few people of colour, but because of the country I grew up, and the wonderful family I had, I was raised to know that everyone is equal, no matter race, gender, sexuality, religion or lack thereof, and that the only superiority a person has over any other is due to good actions and nothing more.
In many ways, this is the best of James Baldwin and some of his most indulgent.
His thoughts become like spaghetti on the wall, and I am forced to recall the lines of William Carlos Williams poem, "No ideas but in things." I want to see his ideas through the lens of experiences, things that can be touched and felt.Theoreticians and sermonizers, I feel, are the mere journeymen of great writers of scenes and stories.
Therefore, I feel like the Baldwin I get in this book is often the lesser one.
I first read this book in the sixties, but I had to revisit Baldwin's powerful sermon/commentary on racism in America from today's perspective. After the ushering in of the laughable "Post-racial" society that was to be the Obama years, two terms of vilifying, attempted impeachment, and undercutting of the "Leader of the Free World" because he is a black man; and the "Stand Your Ground" laws that allow for "Open Season" on young black men; just make me think not much has changed in the 50 years since this book was published.
Written almost 50 years ago during the Civil Rights era, these two works (a letter and an essay) afford the 21st Century reader a solid no-holds barred picture of life lived through apartheid America as seen through the eyes of a black man.I had a hard copy in college (in the 80s) of this book and thought it was too angry and unfortunately never read it in its entirety (only 100 pages mind you).
Listening now as I’ve lived life a little, I see that it was my inability to process and interpret heated, angry or divergent dissertations that was the problem, not what he wrote.
Dated?
It can be objected that I am speaking of political freedom in spiritual terms, but the political institutions of any nation are always menaced and are ultimately controlled by the spiritual state of that nation.
We are controlled here by our confusion, far more than we know, and the American dream has therefore become something much more closely resembling a nightmare, on the private, domestic, and international levels.
Privately, we cannot stand our lives and dare not examine them; domestically, we take no responsibility for (and no pride in) what goes on in our country; and, internationally, for many millions of people, we are an unmitigated disaster.
An essential, and way overdue read on my part. I absolutely love James Baldwin, his intellect, his intelligence, his eloquence, the visionary way he probes the past, the present and looks into the future. What a writer, and what a book! It is a true tragedy that this book still rings with the same great resonance and immediate importance as it did fifty five years ago when it was first published.
I am far from convinced that being released from the African witch doctor was worthwhile if I am now—in order to support the moral contradictions and the spiritual aridity of my life—expected to become dependent on the American psychiatrist. Ta-Nehisi Coates led me here, but I should have gotten here a long time before that. James Baldwin is a powerful and penetrating writer; and this book, though short, is an encyclopedia of thought. After I finished The Souls of Black Folks, by W.E.B. Du Bois
In a short time, this led to a loss of faith: “Being in the pulpit was like being in the theatre; I was behind the scenes and knew how the illusion worked.”But Baldwin does not only note the hypocrisy within his own church; he is acutely aware of the historical role Christianity has played in justifying slavery and oppression:The spreading of the Gospel, regardless of the motives or the integrity or the heroism of some of the missionaries, was an absolutely indispensable justification for the planting of the flag.
