https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272481.Exile_s_Return
This is the story of the so-called lost generation of American writers, of their alienation from their American roots, their attempts to replace America's "mechanical values" with moral values by escaping to Europe.
Of their struggles to reconcile their need for self-expression with their need to make a living.
The crass money values of America drove them overseas, but their need for American money drew them back, back to an America that was changed, in their perceptions.
It is literary criticism but also contains strong elements of aesthetics, philosophy, history, and especially, sociology.
He lived it, full-time.
This book is very much an inside view of the mostly-American literary scene to 1930.
However, I was disappointed, but not surprised, by the author's virtual indifference to black writers from the same period who were just as talented and productive as their white counterparts.
The author accounts for his disregard of women, but not for that of the Harlem Renaissance figures.
Still, it is, again, a personal story about the people the writer directly knew and loved; it is about their shaping and disintegration, and, once one accepts it for what it is, it is an impressive account.
From the Sacred Cowley, a worthy reference book. What I remember about Cowley is that his soon-to-be-exwife Peggy was "romancing" Hart Crane in Mexico and was w him on the boat when Hart jumped ohboard. Are you thinking what I'm thinking ?
Very possibly the book that made the most impression on me during university, therefore fantastic. A glimpse into the lives of Fitzgerland, Hemingway, Pound, Eliot, Joyce, and others. On my to-read shelf to revisit.
Excellent account of the "lost generation" told by someone who knew all the major players.
In his retelling of the experience of a handful of American artists living in France during the 1920s, Malcolm Lowly opts for the latter, langorous approach which can sometimes indulge in heady amounts of omphaloskepsis.An expatrite himself, Cowley quickly befriended some of the most prominent literary names of the decade upon moving to Paris.
Lumping them all together and claiming that World War I had disenfranchised all of them in the same way sets the reader exactly up for what she gets: a bland, vague portrayal of the sentiments of certain writers of the generation.
This book doesn’t add much to either the picture or the reception of American writers working in the immediate aftermath of World War I.
"Exile's Return" documents the experience of Cowley and other members of the Lost Generation in the 1920s.Originally writing in 1934 about the 1920s, then substantially revising the book in the 1950s, we are given several layers of Cowley commenting on his own experience and his thinking about it.
There are informative segments on Dadaism and dips back into the story of prior writers-in-exile, including the Russians of the mid-19th century in Germany and the always entertaining antics of Dostoevsky in Baden-Baden.The history of bohemian artistic movements and Greenwich Village in particular is colorful.
He also includes an index of "books one ought to have read" - I can see this is going to be trouble!

Wonderful stories that greatly humanizes a great many writers and personalities from the 1920s.
It announced a furious contempt for everything held sacred by society—as if he had said to the burghers of his time, "You think that life has meaning, that the act of love is holy, yet all of you together, the whole pack of lifelings, couldn't write one passable poem or even recognize the beauty of a sentence patiently carved in marble." It is as if he proclaimed that nothing had value in itself, that everything outside the world of art should be violently rejected.
The casual cosmopolitanism, the rage against the bourgeoisie, the sense of infinite time for cafe life (backed by an American dollar as strong as the fiercest vinasse).
Cowley chronicles bohemian times in Paris, the village, the dilapidated farmhouses where writer's solitude was sought then tossed aside as too bereft of stimulation.
His analysis of the fury of DaDa and its close kinship to the religion of art that it seemingly rejected could be transposed to many a later alternative art scene.
The funeral of DaDa, seemingly held at the same banquets that celebrated its birth, embodied that frenzied idealism laced with post-war cynicism that haunted the generation unmoored from Babbitry.
An invaluable chronicle of the 1920s literary expatriates, Cowley's book benefits from his first-hand perspectives and participation. He allows himself to "intrude" on his narrative just enough to keep the book authentic while staying broad enough to encapture the entire era and scene rather than serving as a straight memoir. I had chosen to read it mostly to learn more about Harry Crosby but all major figures from the era receive appropriate love.
I loved this book. Little snippets about Eugene O'Neil interacting with mobsters in the speakeasies of Manhattan, and remarkable descriptions of Hemingway, Proust, Joyce, not to mention a wonderful slew of anecdotes from Cowley's own life, and interesting intellectual history, such as the history of bohemianism, the expat experience, and what happened to the lost generation. If you like any of the authors mentioned in here, you should read this book.
An in-depth and fascinating review of modernism in Paris. Written from an outside perspective it adds a certain authenticity to the plethora due to its stark honesty even though it is often looking at other real figures in he scene, however, without the veil of fiction that most other pieces from the period rely on.
An informative retelling of the Lost Generation. Well worth reading. Of particular interest to those interested in: Hart Crane, Harry Crosby, the Dada movement, or the boom of post WWI literary reviews devoted to modernism and its offshoots.
Pretty good, but Cowley's account would make it seem that women were more or less absent in a significant, contributing way from the literary and artistic developments that occurred during the 1920s (Gertrude Stein is mentioned dismissively; Katherine Anne Porter gets a shout-out in an appendix).
A definitive work on the lost generation and their experiences abroad written by a man intimate with the members of this group. Was an invaluable research tool for my thesis on the lost generation and transnationalism in literature.
An interesting insight to the mindset of writers coming of age in the 1920s and the forces that shaped their outlook.
I can never get enough of Lost Generation writing. I especially enjoyed the extended portrait of Harry Crosby.
I loved this book. It has really influenced my ideas on art and its creation. Also, it's a timeless understanding of the artist living amongst capitalism.
The "non-fiction" corollary to A MOVABLE FEAST. Oddly relevent.
Lost Generation. A masterpiece that coined the phrase.
In Cowley and expatriates-alike, their disatisfaction of America ultimately came to configure the central "idea" of what it meant to be American at last (in some way, anyway).It's a great book which is filled with excellent analysis', most notable on Dadaism and Henry Crosby's suicide.
Price of the book is worth that list alone, if you ask me.Truly excellent, and utterly insightful on so many ways.
This book gave an insight into the next generation post-WWI and about the "Lost Generation". Here is a great quote that epitomizes the feelings of that time: "No matter: the country of our childhood survives, if only in our minds, and retains our loyalty even when casting us into exile; we carry its image from city to city as our most essential baggage..." (pg. 14)
Amazing!A week or two ago I had no idea this book even excisted, and now I realize it answers quite a few of my questions about the years around WW1; mainly in the American artist emigré community in Europe, of course, but also in more general terms. In addition, it was well written and even entertaining. What more could I ask!
Thoroughly entertaining, though I found myself more engrossed in the chapters about less familiar subjects.
That chapter in particular felt like lost history.
I found the 1930s version far superior, with a clear statement of the place Cowley believed writers should stand in the social struggle of the time, as opposed to the rather bland, bemused take on his youth offered in the 50s.
Hard not to see the substitution of one for the other too as an act of political cowardice in the McCarthy era when "standing with the workers" might have gotten a respectable critic and editor blacklisted.
This was assigned reading for a book group.
Had it not been for the assignment, I would not have read it.
It's a non-fiction book about expatriate writers in Paris during the 1920s, which also includes 1930.
Their motivations and goals are explained in a way that I feel only a fellow writer could understand.
It also covers how they returned to their mother countries, and at least for the Americans with a new appreciation for their country.
It was interesting, but similar to reading a history or sociological treatise on a unique group in time.
Exile’s Return is a haunting elegy for the moment in the early 1920’s when the fleeting notion of a worthwhile artistic life tantalized, then ultimately abandoned, an entire generation of American writers. At its best this thoughtful cultural document is an indictment of the spread of bourgeoisie values, industrialism, corporatism and vapidity. In seeking a life worth living as expatriates these ‘refugees were also trying to escape something more subtle, some quality of American civilization that they carried within themselves’. Cowley keenly captures the permanent unmooring and slow rotting promise that produced some of the most remarkable 20th century literature.
A superbly constructed personal memoir of a fascinating and very formative time in the history of American literature. The author shares his own experiences but not at the expense of the much more interesting bigger picture. Through anecdote and quote he gives the reader a strong sense of the times, places and, critically, the people. His over-arching theme is sound and well-considered but I would quibble with the overly poetic device used (the life, times and ultimate fate of a long-forgotten minor poet) as a metaphor to sum up the period.
I utilized this book for a paper I'm writing on the Lost Generation using the works of Fitzgerald and Hemingway and thus was a great book to get not only an overview of the lost generation, but also a direct insight into their lives.
