https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77281.The_Far_Side_Gallery
With a distinctive style of illustration and creatively loaded with surrealistic humor, his single-panel cartoon strips evoke laughter by inspecting the world through fresh perspective and finding inspiration from social and natural events and scenarios.“The Far Side Gallery” is the first volume of a compilation of his comic strips, which were published from 1982 to 1984.
Within these cartoon panels the reader can witness and enjoy portrayals of curious family scenes, social events, time warps into pre-historic worlds, human & animal relationships, observations of nature, clever role-reversals – where roles of ‘humans and animals’ or ‘humans and monsters’ are switched – with each panel evoking laughter by provoking the thought process.
There is nothing quite like Gary Larson's The Far Side. I class it up there with Bloom County and Calvin and Hobbes as the funniest commentaries on 20th C american life. Absurd truths abound and it is hard to stifle a laugh or a guffaw at Larson's wit and fantastic ideas. Another one to help forget the horrifying headlines of today's depressing world.
Enjoy the warped one-shot comics of Gary Larson, whose Far Side is a darkly humorous take on 1950s - 60s pop culture tropes - Larson describes it in hi foreword as "Theodore Cleaver Meets the Thing." Some of you probably won't find it amusing at all; others won't be able to stop laughing. I'm in the latter camp. Check this out if you like Calvin & Hobbes  - the format and subject matter are different, but the two comics are alike in their intelligence and idiosyncratic approach.
Introduction: After reading “The Far Side Gallery 3,” I was dying to check out more of Gary Larson’s “Far Side Gallery” series and I stumbled upon a collection of Gary Larson’s “Far Side Gallery” series in “The Far Side Gallery” (man, I am talking about the “Far Side Gallery” so much in this review)! Anyway, this collection of “Far Side Gallery” stories is just as memorable and hilarious as the “Far Side Gallery 3!” What is this story about? Basically, this “Far Side Gallery” collection contain
Anyway, this collection of “Far Side Gallery” stories is just as memorable and hilarious as the “Far Side Gallery 3!”
Gary Larson’s writing: Gary Larson’s writing is as usual hilarious and witty to read as the various characters in these comic strips are always making sarcastic comments about the situations they are thrown into.
(A dog tells another dog in heaven how his owner killed him with a car).Gary Larson’s artwork: Gary Larson’s artwork as usual is hilarious to look at as the characters have exaggerated bodies such as their bodies being larger than their heads.
5.0 stars. Without a doubt, the funniest (and most clever) cartoon series ever put on paper. Gary Larson is a comic genius.

The odd and twisted world of Gary Larson, I miss his work.
These stay on my shelves along with Charles Schultz work.
These are two comics creators who's work stands up well to rereading.
Schultz for humor and wisdom, Larson for humor and....that odd perspective on life he gives us.I have a couple of other cartoon books in my library, they tend to make me laugh and lighten my mood at times, but I think Larson and Schultz will be around as long as there is thought and introspection along with humor (and that is dying as I write this, but there are still a few).
A collection volume of Larson's classic (almost exclusively) one-frame comic cartoons. Unmistakable style and often both clever and funny. Many of these did not age too well though (or it's just that I've seen them too many times) and it's not a book or books I ever re-read nowadays.
Wonderful. I grew up on these cartoons. My friend and I once made a tape (now lost to the ages, or taped over, same difference) of a fictional radio show where we verablly acted out these vignettes and reported on them like they were real news. God bless Gary Larson, wherever he is...
Read, possibly in 1984.
I can't believe I am writing a review for this; it's sort like being handed an essay assignment titled "What Does Funny Mean to Me?" I suspect the king of the dark and biological cartoon, Gary Larson, has been under-reviewed because his work, which was prodigious and searingly funny until the well ran dry rather suddenly, was primarily done in the 1980's and 90's.
Whatever.My first Larson cartoon reached me by mail.
It had the illustration of two polar bears in a sort of conversational position over the top of an igloo.
I had given birth to 3 children in four years, and was staying home all day.
I wish I could post my favorite Far Side from the book... I don't want to risk violating a batrillion copyright laws though.Honest Abe at a podium reading:"and so, the bartender says, Hey! That's not a duck!" (Wait for laughter) Four score and seven years ago,..."I think of that cartoon all the time. Sometimes I'll just randomly say, "Wait for laughter..." thinking about it.I've decided to go through all my Far Side Gallery books. ...Larson is clutch. Twisted. But clutch.
I really like Larson's humor. Also. I'm surprised no one mentioned it but.. I found this collection to be very "dark". A lot of the humor I thought was quite morbid. Nothing wrong with that, of course, just a few times I was actually a bit surprised. It's not all light-n-fluffy puns.
Everytime I read this book it always makes me laugh. I LOVE Gary Larson. His comic strips are classic. I am so sadi that he no longer puts them out. If you are having a bad day pick up a Gary Larson book it will make you feel so much better.
Sometimes cynical, sometimes satirical, sometimes nonsensical, sometimes scathingly critical, sometimes wittingly observational, sometimes reflective, sometimes nostalgic, sometimes farcical . Always delightful.
This book was the Best!! I loved reading all the different comics abou different people.
Come to think of it, we can’t say we haven’t been warned- we are invited at the “far side” of amusement and positivity, with dark undertones.-	Gary Larson is included in a top of best humor.
A guy has a scorpion on his face and there’s another one on top of him, saying:-	Hold still, Carl…Don’t…move…an…inch-	In the first place I saw no joke, but at a second look I see that Carl’s friend has a rock in his hands, that will take care of the scorpion and of Carl’s head.
It's a pleasure to revisit early Far Side strips and see how much Larson's sense of humor has soaked into pop culture.
Nowadays, it seems like most people—or most entertainers, at least—have just accepted that the world really is as odd as Larson always said it was, so some of his stuff now reads as the first iteration of a type of joke that has been made hundreds of times since: Rapunzel has an afro!
Oh, yes, Larson was fond of dabbling in creeping horror, and very good at it.
We sit in the living room and pass around the different books, pointing out funny ones to read, and they ask me about the ones that they don't get and I tell them whatever they need to know to get it, and they usually can figure it out and laugh and it is so much fun.
It makes me happy to see this little 6 year old boy reading The Far Side and laughing his butt off.
He'll pick one up and say, "I think I need to do some reading," and this makes me smile.
A single Far Side cartoon can evoke any number of reactions from people.
Usually good ones (from the people I choose to hang out with, anyway.) A collection of Far Side cartoons has a totally different effect.
When viewed side by side, for any extended length of time, the effect multiplies not just cumulatively, but exponentially.
I have almost had to be hospitalized a number of times due to Far Side induced seizures.
The first time I read this collection I needed an asthma inhaler by the time I got to the cartoon in which Dorothy and friends encounter the marathon runners on the YBR, and I don't even have asthma!
The day after the election I returned all my serious books to the library and picked up silly fiction. I could not bear to read anything serious when we had an orange-haired, racist, misogynist, lying, sexual predator who is proud of his lack of knowledge,etc,etc for our president. So I picked up my son's Far Side Gallery and read it as my nighttime reading. Wonderful funny stuff. I am sorry Larson retired. I will be reading a lot more of his stuff over the coming months.
It's difficult not to rate a Far Side collection five stars. I grew up on these comics. It's hard thinking of a time I didn't know about their existence. However, now I am much more aware of the world and these comics strike me differently. There are jokes I get now that I didn't get as a child, or jokes I thought I get that I missed completely, not even mentioning the subtext of the strips that I completely glossed over. Great humor, great insight.
I love The Far Side! I first discovered these collections through my uncle, and started building my own set of books. Gary Larson brings so much humor to a single frame comic, and the fact that he is able to bring science humor to unscientific people (like myself) is amazing. I've actually learned a lot of really obscure nature trivia from these comics, and the history ones are even funnier. I always go back to these books when I need a pick-me-up, or just to relive the laughter.
Crazy and hilarious. Loved it! I loved the fact that a lot of these comics are based on scientific knowledge, and if you don't have it it'll e hard to 'get' them. I laughed a lot! and surely I'll come back to it whenever I need to change my mood.One thing I noticed while reading it, and it really annoyed me is that a lot of people have stolen ideas from Gary's comics and made new ones which are really popular on social networks, so they're taking credit that they don't deserve.. grrr
Apparently I've read this collection so many times, I couldn't find the first few pages engaging! So I went through the book backwards instead! Another great collection of Larson's cartoon. Some classics in this one.
When Gary Larson Retired in 1995 I'd wager that zoo personnel and everyone whoever worked at a veterinary clinic went into mourning. If I was King of the World I'd force him out of retirement. His humor always cracks me up.
Science, scientists, everyday life and a lot more. With no further daily doses of Gary Larson I am forced to go back to this "gallery." It is still as funny and well worth the effort. Why has no one else been able to come close to his sense of humor and perspective?
High school: Janice and me sitting at the kitchen table at her house eating cookie dough and laughing so hard at these cartoons we couldn't breathe. (Are they still that funny?)
Good stuff juxtaposing humans and animals to show the silliness of humans and how we're not so very different.
I had no idea.The humor is often in the deadpan sort of vein.
Largely based on uncomfortable social situations, improbable events, and impending disasters, this is the definition of dry wit.After going through the whole collection, it is easy to pick up a pattern in the illustrations.
The strips depict people on desert islands, aliens, heaven, hell and cavemen, often with a visual or verbal gag.Was this book enjoyable?
I understand why some of the strips would be mildly humorous by themselves though.An average book.
Pick up a copy if you're looking for a quick chuckle.
