https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72703.Li_Lun_Lad_of_Courage
While I do in some if not actually in many ways consider Carolyn Treffinger's Li Lun: Lad of Courage both readable and inspiring (that is to say I find the main protagonist's, I find Li Lun's courage, his inventiveness and his skills at solving the multitude of problems that his being sent to plant and grow rice on the unforgiving and harsh mountaintop have engendered, impressive), I am also lastingly and very much angered by the father's ruthless stubbornness and that family "honour" seems to be more important and essential to and for him than even the health and welfare, the life of his son, not to mention that I am also massively saddened by the fact that even Li Lun's mother (although definitely more sympathetic towards her son) is obviously too meek and too cowed by the father's role as pater familias to be both able and even all that willing to much intercede.
Hey, JoAnne, I think this is a good candidate for the read-aloud!This book is highly reminiscent of "Call It Courage," but has worth all it's own, as the main characters of each book are very different and are set on their tasks for different internal reasons.
This book is a great little look at a portion of Chinese culture (I think, I mean, I don't really know if that statement is a fact, as I don't know enough about Chinese culture), but it seems like it.
This was a really great little book, wonderfully written.--JoAnne, if we could find suitable books, it might be fun to think about doing a "cultural" read-aloud next year.
Interesting book, one of those though where you wonder how culturally accurate it is being written by someone who was not a member of the culture they are writing about.
Whether or not it resembles the culture it is supposed to portray, it is still an interesting read.
I'm sure modern people look at sending a boy up a mountain to grow rice as rather extreme parenting.
Though, I'm sure it would have sounded less extreme in the 1940's when the book was written especially taking into account that they were on an island.
That detail makes it feel like a more believable work.
I'm both impressed with Li Lun's courage and problem solving and saddened by his father's harshness. I know it was a different time and a different culture, but to send your young son to grow rice on the top of a mountain alone just because he is scared to fish seems way beyond unnecessarily harsh. Aside from that aspect though, I ended up enjoying Li Lun's determination to survive, to protect his rice plants, and to solve each problem he faced.
Well, this is a fine read, quick, lively, interesting. The illustrations by Kurt Wiese are super and really enhance the story.  However, there's so much here that's so very similar to Call It Courage that it feels to me as if I'm reading two entries in a series called 'brave boys on foreign islands' or something!But I've decided to rate it unto itself, and give it 3.5 stars, rounded up because I really liked the adult characters even though I wouldn't have noticed them much as a child reader.Newbery Honor discussion Jan 2017 in Children's Books group.
I am probably giving up adult lit for a while, as the kids' new language/history program (which I am excited about) has me reading to them from 2 or 3 books at a time the whole year.
That may be all the reading I get in!
Our theme this year is "The Eastern Hemisphere," beginning with China.
This was the first book we read for the year, and it was a good one!
I LOVE the opportunity to read these stories that are so largely based on themes of honor, gratitude, respect, etc.
This was a (relatively) quick read that we all enjoyed.
Li Lun, Lad of Courage is a short book, and very straightforward, but it does a good job of melding an interesting story of Chinese culture with a tale about feeling fear and overcoming the hurt that being labeled a coward will bring by proving one's internal bravery in one's own way.
In this way begins Li Lun's journey toward an achievement that seems far too difficult for any child, but which could prove to everyone around him—including Li Lun, himself—that he is not a coward, but is as brave as any other in the village.
The story quickly becomes dull, however, even in this short, short book.
Regarding the writing, it feels very awkward in tone, mostly due to strange vocabulary.
Outside of the dialogue it seemed like it needed a good editor who would reduce some of the embellishment for a more natural tone.While there is some charm to the book, it has little meaning.
The ending (especially the last page) resolves very little.
Though we see growth in Li Lun, the reader is left wondering what the point is.
I loved this book so much that I used it to teach Special Ed students during a literacy class. It talks about fear, family ties, culture sociology and psychology of human nature. It is a great book that teaches one how to live up to their convictions and work hard at whatever they choose to do in life even if it is not the norm of society.
My father found this book in the town dump when I was a kid and brought it home for me. Can you imagine-- a Newbery honor book in the dump?? Anyway, I loved it and still have it and ought to reread it.
Read early for CC1 wk#9. This book reminded us of "Call it Courage" by Armstrong Perry. We all enjoyed reading about Li Lun's ability to complete his task in the face of many obstacles and how he over came those obstacles.
Great little story for kids about courage and perseverance.
I think this is a good way to explain how a fishing community in China might live to your children (who live in the US).
Also when I read this to my boys it helped them understand hard work and persistence.
I feel that showing them hard working children in books can be a bit of a motivator and inspiration to a generation who seems to think a lot about themselves and getting things immediately.There are some issues I have with this book though.
The main character is disobedient but he also doesn't have a very understanding father.
This was a classic, good old-fashioned tale from a coastal Chinese fishing village.
People that aspire to a post-modern tradition may pooh-pooh moralistic tales such as these, but I fully embrace the strong and clear messages that are conveyed.
The solitude of Li Lun's ordeal is daunting, but he successfully works through myriad challenges, even as almost all of his rice plants get ruined by seagulls and rats.
It was too bad he couldn't save either of the seagull chicks to keep him company, but it was a fun and short read.
What an amazing story of courage.
We felt we were right there with Li Lun as he worked hard to make the rice grow.
My kids were on the edge of their seats at the end of the story, anxious to see how Li Lun's actions would be accepted by the townspeople and more importantly, by his family!
His courage and recognition brought tears to my eyes and I felt such pride for him.
My oldest daughter said the ending was horrible.
She really wanted Li Lun's dad to recognize his accomplishment.
That being said, the acknowledgment of the mother was tender and sweet.
I like how li lun felt safer climbing a huge mountain instead of being in the ocean
An o.k book.
I liked how the kid Li Lun had a lot of courage when he was planting the rice.
I enjoy reading books where courage overcomes fear. This is a Newbery Honor Roll.
A story of having the courage to follow your heart instead of the expectations of those around you. Amazing to think a 10 yo could do this.
I read this with Katie and Nicole, we enjoyed it
Simple but effective tale. Suitable for grade four and beyond.
It was a good book. Li Lun should not have thought he was a coward. He was on top of a mountain for four moon changes.
Li Lun is an inspiring book, yet it is quite boring and unrealistic. Ages 8 and up
Li Lun is a brave boy!
I will give him a land task that will make him beg for the sea!' "He reached into his pocket and gave Li Lun seven grains of rice and sent him to the top of the high mountain, Lao Shan, to plant it.
The father's angerleft him almost breathless:" 'And don't come back until you have grown seven times as many grains as I have given you….You will be far enough from sea water on Lao Shan!' he scoffed."As he returned to his home in disgrace, with his mother, to prepare to leave, his former friends jeered him for his cowardice.
His father slaps him, calls him a coward, and banishes him to the “Sorrow Mountain” or Lao Shan with seven grains of rice.
As punishment, Li Lun must plant the rice and grow seven times as many grains as he was given.
One “professional” reviewer called it a “Flat story that contains little drama or excitement,” saying, “The boy's extraordinary accomplishment and sacrifice sounds understated to modern ears.
Li Lun, Lad of Courage, though it may have little excitement, at least to kids raised on Star Wars, still exhibits a good deal of drama, and is a wonderful look into life in old China.
Li Lun’s mother packs a little food and sends him to talk to a wise man, Sun Ling, who lives in the foothills of the mountains.
Sun Ling carefully explains how rice grows to Li Lun and then Lun sets off up the mountain.
It will take four months before the rice will be ready to harvest.Each day Lun struggles to survive on top of the inhospitable mountain.
The master praises the courage of Lun and his ability to grow rice when none of the other villagers had done so for many, many years.
Genre-Junior books-Historical FictionThis story is about a littleboy named Li Lun that lives on the coast of China and is afraid of the sea.
All the details and settings that Treffinger uses in her story all relate to China.
C. On page 11, the first page of the story, states,"Li Lun crouched behind a huge banyan stump." On page 12 it states,"On this land off the coast of China everyone fished for a living.
We know that the story takes place off the coast of China and fishing is a daily thing for them.
It gives a lot of cultural background and teaches children about courage.
This was the winner of the Newbery Metal in 1948.
I loved the simplicity of the story.
There wasn't a lot to become confused about and it made the important themes of courage and perseverance really stand out.
I think my 3rd graders would really understand the story and get into cheering him onto succeed.
I think they could also begin to get a feeling for Chinese culture.
I think using visualization strategies throughout the book could be powerful because of the strong imagery.
An interesting and fun science connection would be to grow rice along with Li Lun and compare and contrast how easy it is for us compared to him.
