https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29127.The_Last_Unicorn
I shall write a real review but right now I can only think of one way this book could be any better.
Beagle’s classic The Last Unicorn turns fifty years old this year, and it’s remained in the public eye and continues to capture hearts like very few fantasies of its age.
The butterfly (in one of his few lucid moments) tells her that her people have been herded away by a Red Bull.So the unicorn’s quest continues and, despite her preference for solitude, she gathers a few devoted friends around her: Schmendrick, a mediocre (if not downright terrible) magician with infrequent strokes of brilliant magic, enchanted to remain ageless until he can capture and control the magic hidden deep within him.
and so we did, and high-fived when it was over and talked about what a fantastic movie it is, and how Peter Beagle is a sorta lovely writer.so when i got home, i was thinking how i've been reading another awful book by one of a cabal (truly, a devious cabal) of writers of whom I constantly swear I will never read anything by again until someone says "no, tara, you are an idiot, they are so amazing and relevant and just because you hate everything ----- or ----- have ever written or recommended on book jackets, you are full of nonsense so read this".
Η μεγαλύτερη επιθυμία μου είναι να είχα έναν μονόκερο στο σπίτι μου (μπορεί και να έχω) και κάθε βράδυ να με ταξιδεύει υπεργαλαξιακά.
Έναν μονόκερο που τα μάτια του θα γέμιζαν δάκρυα δέους τα δικά μου.
Που θα με λάτρευε και στο άγγιγμα του θα ακύρωνα ζωή και θάνατο μαζί.
Θα τον έκρυβα μέσα στον καθρέφτη μου και θα μπορούσε να τον βρει μόνο αυτός που θα άκουγε τη σιωπή και θα μύριζε την αστερόσκονη.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο είναι μια φανταστική ιστορία γεμάτη περιπέτειες και μαγευτικές εικόνες.
:)Why You Should Read The Last Unicorn...-The prose flows beautifully, keeping the plot moving and your imagination enriched.-Along the same vein, the metaphors used are amazing and perfectly describe the situation giving it that quality that stays with you.-This is not your typical journey tale.-The characters are magical and can be hilarious at times, especially Schmendrick the Magician and Molly Grue.-Ever want to live in a fairy tale for at least a few minutes.
Life will throw things at you all the time no matter what you do.
so i set the mood for rereading The Last Unicorn by putting together a nifty mix of woodstock era classics, heavily featuring the likes of jethro tull & canned heat & richie havens & a lot of early pink floyd.
i LOVED Schmendrick and found Molly Grue to be an annoying, tedious character.
the beauty of its ultimate meaning (whatever that may have been to my 14-year old self) had me thinking about life and how to live it.
this may only be a 3-star book for me, but i did like it a lot.
“We are not always what we seem, and hardly ever what we dream.” In my mind, the movie The Last Unicorn will forever be known as the first and so far only book, movie or TV show to ever give me nightmares. I think I saw the film for the first time when I was about 5 or 6 and I remember being completely entranced by it. It immediately became one of my favourite movies, despite the fact that I couldn’t sleep for a week after seeing it for the first time. I never realised it was originally a novel
It immediately became one of my favourite movies, despite the fact that I couldn’t sleep for a week after seeing it for the first time.
I never realised it was originally a novel, not until now.Having read the book and re-watched the film after finishing it, I now know why it gave me nightmares.
The novel reads like a fairy tale, and perhaps it is to a certain extent, but it’s ironic to the point of being hilarious.
The author goes so far as to make his characters acknowledge that they are in fairy tale.
Definitely not your classic fairy tale ending.
This Unicorn, along with Ende's  Neverending Story  and Zindell's  Requiem for Homo Sapiens , has made me what I am.It has been there for me to shine and shiver with its seashell light even in the deepest night. It has been there to remind me that great heroes need great sorrows and burdens, otherwise half their greatness goes unnoticed. That you can't make real magic by offering up someone else's liver; you must tear out your own. (And not expect to get it back, aye.) It's been a song and a com
This Unicorn, along with Ende's 
Neverending Story
and Zindell's 
Requiem for Homo Sapiens
It has been there to remind me that great heroes need great sorrows and burdens, otherwise half their greatness goes unnoticed.
That you can't make real magic by offering up someone else's liver; you must tear out your own.
(And not expect to get it back, aye.) It's been a song and a companion, a parent and a child ....I've tried to tell more here:http://choveshkata.net/blog/?p=105But in the end, it's only words.
For real magic, you would need a Unicorn.(Peter ...
And yet, Mr Beagle, offers us a unicorn that is unlike anything you could expect: alluring yet strange, beautiful enough to make you cry but at the same time beautiful so much that you will not even think of cuddles, intimate like the beat of your own heart and yet remote like a shining star.
I love this kind of writing style, and it is one of the reasons why Mr Beagle is on the list of my favourite authors.
Finding such analogies was an amazing fun and interesting addition to the lovely story that Mr. Beagle has presented us with.“Things must happen when it is time for them to happen.
Вметка от април 2018-а: Следващите месеци с Човешката библиотека ще даряваме всички приходи от българското издание за съдебния процес, който Бийгъл води в момента.„Последният еднорог“ – редом с „Приказка без край“ и „Реквием за Хомо сапиенс“ – ме е създал такъв, какъвто съм.
И че не мога да направя истинска магия, ако пожертвам нечий чужд дроб – че трябва да изтръгна собствения си.
(И да не чакам да си го получа пак.) Бил е мой спътник, моя песен, родител и дете...Опитал съм се да разкажа повече:http://choveshkata.net/blog/?p=105Но си остават само думи.
За истинска магия ще ви трябва еднорог.(Питър...
Новите еднорози идат.
It's just a shame that it makes all the little girls cry.
*sigh* That being said the novel itself is a rather wonderful and clear and a perfect example of a self-aware fairy-tale.
Better than that, however, is the way it brings out the core theme of wonder and awe or how the searching for one's dreams can turn to either darkness or to light.It's also charming.Not much else needs to be said except that this novel probably deserves all the love that has been showered on it.
This was one of the first satisfying fantasy reads that I found after The Lord of the Rings.
I read it when I came home from my first year of college, in 1970.
For a long time, I felt like I was the only person who had read this book.
The movie came out, so wondrously tied to the book (and well it should be: the author wrote the screenplay) and I loved it almost as much as the book.All these years later, it is a pleasure to see it gaining the sort of acclaim it has always deserved.
You know what?
I've been reading this for over two months and every time I picked it up I was so bored and confused.
Maybe one day I'll go back and read it in a shorter time span, but idk.
The writing was gorgeous and the metaphors were nice, but I couldn't connect to the story at all, there wasn't enough of the unicorn, and it was just strange.It had this quality to it that was like The Little Prince where there seems like there will be some deeper, darker message concealed with a lot of symbolism and loaded language, but I couldn't quite place what it was trying to do.
I was just so, so bored, which upsets me because I paid full price for this book, and it has such high ratings.
Wonderful story that I read waaay too late in the game!The Last Unicorn is a great quest novel with a driven character in search of the most sympathetic of causes, to find out if she is the last of her kind.
We get it, fantasy is what it is, but don't make fun of it or devalue it to the point of ridicule.
I should've read The Last Unicorn as a young teen.
The only reason I finally got around to reading this a few years ago was because of my love for the cartoon version, which I saw at a perfectly young age.
I read this mainly because I've heard it's a fantasy classic, and felt I should.
It was indeed magical, and read like a true fairytale with a unicorn and other mythical creatures, a noble prince with quests, a wizard, and an evil king.
I can see why it's a classic.I'm only giving it 3 stars, though, because the emotional connection and immediateness of more modern fantasy isn't there, and it felt like watching the story from afar.
The characters definitely felt emotions.
So based on pure reading experience, it's only a 3, but with recognition that it's still a really great classic fairytale.
It is a charming classic that has stood the test of time well, even though a great deal of good fantasy has been published since it first appeared.
I loved the bumbling magician Schmendrick, who has yet to find his true magic as well as the hero Prince Lir, always off doing something heroic to impress the Unicorn, who remained disinterested and Molly Grue, the stoic, middle aged woman who accompanies the unicorn and the magician on the final stage of their journey.
There are some great scenes, including the Midnight Carnival with all the enchanted creatures and the very real and creepy Harpy as well as the final confrontation with the fearsome Red Bull and the evil King Haggard.
Michel Gondry has a theory that when we sleep our bodies, minds, souls, heart (whatever else there might be) are opened up and when we awake we want to be close (and also explaining why people wake up horny).
Beagle's book is that waking up and feeling touched story for me.
It's a book for people who care about shit.) There's nothing ironic about this story.
Like an arrow straight to my heart.The Last Unicorn is what's still there (the heart of the matter) when change, time bypasses and whatnots are stripped away.
What I dream of in the day time is stuff like this.
One of the best children's fantasy books that I've ever read.
Peter Beagle (born 1939) is a scintillating American author and he's got a equally dazzling character to mark his place in this literary world - none other than what people say as a legendary yet fictional animal, the most important imaginary animal of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance - the unicorn.
Trust me, though, that this is not your typical children's book because the prose is too beautiful for toddlers to appreciate.
Easy to read yet scintillates in its beauty.
Unforgettable fantasy book.
5.0 stars. WOW, why did it take me so long to get around to reading this extraordinary novel!! I actually only decided to read this now because one of my favorite authors, Patrick Rothfuss, mentioned that it was one of his favorite novels of all time. Well, I can certainly see why. This is fantasy at its best. Beautifully written, smart and full of heart. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!
The world shall not be free until the last unicorn is strangled with the guts of the last hobbit.
Wow! Not the ending I thought it would be! Beautiful.
It was very good and different from the movie in some places (for example, the story of the curse and the village before Haggard's castle).
On her way, she meets different people, discovers that the belief in magic is all but lost (she has no sense for time), is being told by a butterfly about the disappearance of her kind because of the Red Bull, gets captured for the Midnight Circus and meets Schmendrick there.
However, I love the beautiful language as well as the different characters and have never come across another story depicting immortal creatures this way.
Through it all, the unicorn changes and learns to understand the basic human needs for love and friendship.From the first page, I quickly realized that Beagle's writing is far from simple.
But here, the writing was too rich to pass over quickly and with each re-reading, I was able to mine more pleasure out of the story.
On the surface, the story is a bittersweet tale about a special creature who seeks to find her own, but underneath, there is a second story about perception and belief in the unbelievable.
"Surely it must be the dearest luck of all, though the hardest earned.""As for her, she is a story with no ending, happy or sad.
I actually got all misty eyed near the end of this book.
Really a sweet story filled with colorfully drawn characters and writing that engages all six of your senses.
I was really into unis, and even had a beautiful stuffed one with a golden horn.The last chapter has the most beautiful writing in the book, as everything is brought to a conclusion.
But I LOVED the scene in Chapter 5 (page 54 in my copy) where they changed the password.
I can see why this is such a fantasy classic. I was well-served to read it alongside other people, forced to read only a few chapters a week - this allowed me to notice more things and appreciate the small bits in a way I don't usually do. Besides having a decent story, Beagle has a good balance of quirky, humor, romance, and deep thoughts. Perfect for younger and older readers.
Sounds have color and texture, it's as if he was able to show people what it would be like to walk into a Van Gogh painting and live inside it.His plot is not as it seems, at first appearing cliche (you may find yourself thinking "This is like the start of hundreds of fairy tales I've read as a kid") but you will be delightfully proven wrong.
It was the first Peter Beagle book I picked up at a friends recommendation.
I think I just want to let the book stand on its own in my imagination.
I first read “The Last Unicorn” in my twenties and I didn’t really enjoy it as I was not into unicorns at all.
A few years back, however, I came across Michael Green’s wonderful book “The Unicornis Manuscripts on the History and Truth of the Unicorn” and from then on I was hooked on these mythical creatures.
It transpires that they are kept under the sea nearby and … well that is for you to find out.If you’re into unicorns, magic, fantasy and beautiful prose, you must definitely read this.
I've been hearing for years and years that The Last Unicorn is a must read for fantasy fans.
Along the way, she meets a bumbling wizard named Schmendrick, a feisty woman named Molly, and eventually a layabout prince named Lir.As with A Fine and Private Place, Beagle's writing is spotted with humor.
Schmendrick seems like an ancestor of Rincewind the Wizzard's.
I found the characters to be well rounded, even the villain of the piece, King Haggard.The best of the writing comes with something befalls the unicorn and you can easiy imagine the sense of loss she feels.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 Ένα βιβλίο που περιλαμβάνει ένα μυθικό πλάσμα  Μια ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία, καταλάβαινα πως κρύβονταν παράλληλα νοήματα και τα "πίσω από τις λέξεις" που λέω εγώ, αλλά να σας πω την αλήθεια δεν έδωσα σημασία! Το διάβασα αυτό καθ' αυτό για την ιστορία, την εξέλιξη και το τι θα γίνει στο τέλος. Σαν τα παραμύθια που μου διάβαζαν σαν παιδί και η φαντασία μου οργίαζε και με μάγευαν οι παράξενες λεπτομέρειες!Το στήσιμο των σκηνών και η ροή της ιστορίας με έκανε να νιώθω σαν να παιζόταν μι
Μια ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία, καταλάβαινα πως κρύβονταν παράλληλα νοήματα και τα "πίσω από τις λέξεις" που λέω εγώ, αλλά να σας πω την αλήθεια δεν έδωσα σημασία!
Το διάβασα αυτό καθ' αυτό για την ιστορία, την εξέλιξη και το τι θα γίνει στο τέλος.
Σαν τα παραμύθια που μου διάβαζαν σαν παιδί και η φαντασία μου οργίαζε και με μάγευαν οι παράξενες λεπτομέρειες!Το στήσιμο των σκηνών και η ροή της ιστορίας με έκανε να νιώθω σαν να παιζόταν μια ταινία στο κεφάλι μου.
Ένα υπέροχο παραμύθι για να πεις στο παιδί μέσα σου " Έλα!
Aș vrea să intru în somnul tău și să te păzesc acolo - dar nu pot să pătrund decât dacă tu mă visezi pe mine.”„Nu poate să fie prea rea soarta lui, dacă a iubit o licornă.”Fericire:„Nu vreau să păstrez lângă mine nimic din ce nu mă poate face fericit.”Vrăjitorie:„Cel mai meșteșugit blestem care s-a mormăit, sau croncănit, sau bubuit vreodată, nu are nici o putere asupra unor inimi curate.”Nimic din ce se face prin vrăjitorie nu e adevărat, până la urmă.”Profesionalism:„Totdeauna am spus, când ai nevoie de ceva bine făcut, du-te la omul priceput.
