https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44157.Maigret_New_York
A re-read of this unusual Maigret.The beauty of this Maigret is his discomfiture at investigating a case in New York, where things are so different. No concierges in blocks of flats, too much whisky, too little cognac. No room service bell-pulls, and no-one speaks French. Still, he muddles through, in a bad temper. Most enjoyable!
È un Maigret diverso dal solito, quello che sbarca a New York poco dopo la fine della seconda guerra mondiale.
Recatosi a New York dopo l'insistenza del giovane Jean Maura, vediamo un Maigret spaesato, fuori dal suo solito ambiente.
Spaesamento che trasmette al lettore stesso, che si ritrova a vagare fra il Bronx e Broadway assieme all'ex commissario, nel tentativo di dipanare il mistero che si nasconde dietro le vite di alcuni francesi emigrati negli States.
Solo quando finalmente Maigret troverà il bandolo della matassa per dipanare il mistero, anche il lettore ritroverà le atmosfere classiche che avvolgono il nostro, nei suoi interminabili e stringenti interrogatori, fra birra, fumo e sandwich al prosciutto.
Το ευχαριστήθηκα! Εξαιρετικός χαρακτήρας ο Μαιγκρέ!
Inspired by the recent PBS series starring Rowan Atkinson, I decided to go back to Maigret--I hadn't read one of these in many years.
Things get mysteriouser and mysteriouser as Maigret stumbles around in a milieu which is definitely not his own, characters accumulate, as do clues which seem unrelated to each other.
Maigret finally figures out what is going on, and confirms it by a transatlantic call to France; but we're only given his side of the conversation and must construct for ourselves what he is being told.
Simenon utilizza una tecnica semplice ma infallibile, che si usa non solo nelle indagini poliziesche, ma nella vita di tutti i giorni: mettersi nei panni dell’altro.
E così il nostro commissario in pensione si mette nei panni di Little John Maura, un francese emigrato negli Stati Uniti, musicista, che appena sbarcato comincia a girare con il suo violino e con un amico che suona il clarinetto facendo spettacolini nei circhi, arrangiandosi a vivere alla giornata, finchè non incontrano una ragazza, fragile, esile, sola anch’ella… E con la sua tecnica il nostro amico Maigret, immerso nelle stradine del Bronx di New York, tra bar malfamati, piccoli negozi di emigrati italiani e cortili dove si rincorrono bambini dai colori mediterranei ma dall’accento americano, in una città in cui, in nome della libertà, si può scomparire tranquillamente agli occhi della legge e del mondo, indaga per scoprire cosa c’è dietro gli occhi freddi e impenetrabili di Little John.
Chaque fois que je lis un Maigret, je suis émerveillé par la capacité qu'a Simenon à saisir la société française, la décrire, en soulever les jupes, en montrer les verrues. Dans une économie de moyens qui rend chaque phrase, chaque situation plus percutante.
Chaque fois que je lis un livre Maigret, je suis tout a fait émerveillée par le style et l'imagination de l'autheur.
Maigret sails to New York with the legitimate son, at the request of a family solicitor to find out what is going on.
As this was written after the end of the war I suspect Simenon was capitalising on French interest in matters American, and decided to temporarily ship Maigret over to the streets of Manhattan.
He isn't at all at ease, although it is amusing that a somewhat higher than expected proportion of the New York police force and underworld speak fluent French!
Interesting and somewhat different story, but with the appearance of having been written in rather a hurry (as really all of these novels were).
Maigret, onetime Detective Chief Inspector of the Police Judiciare, has been retired for a year now, but he’s still as curious and insistent on justice as he ever was.
When a distraught American-born law student, Jean Maura, comes to Maigret worried about a change in his father in the past six months, Maigret impulsively agrees to accompany the young man home to New York City to find out what’s really going on.Maigret in New York contains more twists than a corkscrew and an ending I never saw coming.
I also love that Georges Simenon pokes gentle fun at the stereotype of the fault-finding Frenchman abroad, with Maigret chafing at the rudeness and vulgarity that is New York.
Yet another fabulous Maigret novel.
Maigret solves a mystery in New York, despite being a fish out of water. The fun is the setting and the characters. The mystery did not engage me here at all, but the problems of being a Frenchman trying to do business in Postwar New York was fascinating, as is a certain surrealism in the setting.Atypical for the series, and likely better for it. Also features one of the least likely private eyes ever.
Ο συνταξιούχος επιθεωρητής της γαλλικής αστυνομίας Μαιγκρέ πηγαίνει στη Νέα Υόρκη να εξιχνιάσει τι κρύβεται πίσω από τον βαθύπλουτο Τζων Μωρά. Δεν θα απογοητευτείται από το κλασσικό νουάρ που μας προσφέρει ο Ζορζ Σιμενόν. Μια υπέροχη ματιά στη Νέα Υόρκη της δεκαετίας του 1940 με τα κακόφημα μπαρ, τα πολυτελή ξενοδοχεία, τους γκάνγκστερ, τα ουίσκι και τα τζιν. Ο Σιμενόν μας προσφέρει άλλη μια κλασική αστυνομική ιστορία του επιθεωρητή Μαιγκρέ.
I love the Maigret books. He’s an interesting character - complex and unusual, he possesses a unique investigative style. The novels take interesting “side roads” to get where they’re headed. This one was particularly interesting as it highlighted the differences between the French and American styles of detection - at least in a fictional world.
The young man that enlists Maigret's help is missing when their ship arrives in New York. The confusing, twisted story of Jean Maura and his father begins. Maigret seems at a loss to continue in a country where he doesn't speak the language or understand the culture. This is not the usual detective story.
Maigret ist mal wieder im Ruhestand und lässt sich überreden, aus der Idylle seines Landhausgartens nach New York zu reisen. Hier fühlt er sich unsicher und unwohl, bis er auch hier die Milieus findet, die er aus Paris kennt. Danach kann er an die Arbeit gehen.
Purchased August 2016 at Book Culture in NYC because of its setting. Read this year on flight to and first day in NYC. Maigret is charming, deceptively bumbling. The story is good but not all that enjoyable to read--maybe because it's translated from French?
Written in 1947 an excellent description of a French view of New York through Maigret's eyes.
great turn of events . Maigret's inique investigative style succeeds in the West
A retired detective gets mixed up in a murder mystery in New York.I enjoyed this book – it was short and punchy, with a good storyline and plenty of odd characters.
Lästes den svenska översättningen av Gunnel Vallquist.
Amusing ,well written as ever. A quick read Maigret in retirement and unimpressed by New York
Charming to see New York through Maigret's eyes.
I couldn't understand a paragraph. What was it about?
Dois dos três primeiros livros do detetive Maigret que eu li me fizeram desconfiar que Simenon usa seus enredos detetivescos como pretextos para entender o mundo.
Quando Simenon vai a uma cidade do interior da França, em O Cão Amarelo, ou quando circula pela alta sociedade no livro quase homônimo, é a estes mundos que Simenon quer compreender.
Virão a interessar, naturalmente, mas ainda não é o caso.Ao invés de perseguir verdades, ele aguarda, aguarda e se deixa "impregnar" pela "verdade simples das coisas".
As palavras são dele, exatas, ou quase.Maigret, falando dos casos que investiga, é Simenon, acredito, falando da criação.
Jean has become concerned that his father's life is in danger and he wants Maigret to accompany him to New York.
They embark 10 days later.What follows is a strange investigation, made stranger by Jean Maura's disappearance from the boat when they arrive in New York.
O'Brien provides his assistance and Maigret manages to piece together John Maura's history and eventually works out what is happening.Simenon obviously wanted to write a novel about New York - he had recently arrived in 1947 - incorporating his own experiences and impressions, but also including comment on the influence of the Sicilian Mafia in economic affairs.
He is not helped by the baffling case he came out of retirement to advise in, but in typical Chief Inspector Maigret fashion he finds the solution to this mystery.I enjoyed the story, it was good to see the detective's discomfort but ability to turn it to his favour.
I must admit I don't like him as retired and it is pleasing to note that many stories to come in this wonderful series take us back to his time at Quai des Orfèvres in Paris.
We also learn that Maigret love Laurel & Hardy and watching a film he laughs out loud.Much of the novel is a dark thriller that has a many twists and turns and doesn't pan out like you might expect.
I also think that this particular book derives a great deal from Maigret's relocation to New York; he has been asked by a young man in France to accompanying him to the big city to determine why his father has been sending letters suggesting that he may soon meet with his end.
Maigret did, of course, live in New York for some years; anyone who has spent time in New York will know how accurate his details are.
Once Maigret arrives in New York, we are off and running on a tale that moves back and forth between decades and that features some of the most colorful characters in all of Simenon's work.

"Another wonderful Maigret. The Inspector is plucked from retirement (again) in Meung-sur-Loire (same place as in Maigret in Retirement) to go to New York on an unlikely quest. Once there, the story devolves into classic Maigret: sympathetic characters, old crimes that don't really need solving and a lengthy discussion of the Maigret philosophy. I loved it!Lucas is mentioned only in passing. Reference to Mesterino, the longest interrogation of his career. Mme wants a present from New York!"
Maigret a New York, e non è un viaggio di piacere. Il racconto mi è molto piaciuto, soprattutto nel confronto culturale tra il francese in pensione e gli americani, tra la polizia federale, che a suo dire rispetta la privacy, e quella francese, che tende ad indagare su tutti (almeno allora …).Memorabile il finale, con un interrogatorio al telefono che si conclude … all’americana ed un epilogo che spazza la nebbia newyorchese incombente sulle tristi vicende di un passato lontano.Consigliato agli … astemi!
There is something so satisfying about these Maigrets - subtle and succinct and such excellent policing! And in New York, Maigret is so deliciously an outsider and yet brilliantly "conquers" New York because he is always so true to his methods as a policeman
