https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3205404-le-baiser-au-l-preux
A French Catholic intellectual tradition, stretching from Pascal on down to writers like Mauriac and Bernanos, has precisely this spirit.
Still, any reader who likes the taste of belief well salted, rather than over sweetened as it so often is, might profitably turn to this novel.
Oh yes, a note for non-native readers of French: I found the French difficult and turned in several cases to an English translation.
Part of the problem was Mauriac's somewhat unusual syntax, discussed in some detail in the introduction to my volume, but the vocabulary, too, was sometimes a bit of a stretch for me (and indeed for the dictionary I normally uses!)
I actually read this in the English translation, translated as "A Kiss for a Leper." The basic story is of a deformed rich man who is given a beautiful young wife. This wife is repulsed by his body, and they never consummate the marriage. That's it. The psychological depth Mauriac gives to the characters is quite amazing. He's a bit like Doestoevsky in that the character's voices (although it's inner dialogue) become the narrative engine, and a bit like Tolstoy in that the Landes of Bourdeaux become something of a character by mere description. I really like Mauriac.
Intriguing plot (though it’s only possible in some earlier ages, if then). As for the character of Jean P. (cross between Thomas Mann’s Herr Friedmann and Dalibor Cvitan’s Ervin), level of spinelessness is too damn high. The character of Neomi is too sloped towards the ideal and it’s (sadly) making her quite unrealistic .
The writing, so flowing, at times deep and thoughtful, moves the story right down the path you know it's going to go. I loved how the story came almost like full circle in the end. In it's simplicity the story was beautiful, but lacked too much in descriptions of the time period and maybe the characters lacked in very strong emotions, yeah, I think it was overall a little lackluster.
One of Mauriac's earlier works, this short novella already betrays the author's penchant for deft, incisive characterizations, pastoral scenery, and unflinching depictions of psychic and spiritual torment. It is the story of a horribly unhappy arranged marriage between a rich but desperately ugly young man, and a beautiful but naive and simple young woman. With his singular human insight, Mauriac penetrates through the morass of their loathing and self-recrimination to touch at the deep spiritual ties that bind them together in spite of it all.
l1 des plus grand livre que j'ai plus qu'aimer <3
austere arranged marriage that would be of last century. well written and feelings of paintings more than literature.
Ma chronique sur le blog : https://ifmarybooks.wordpress.com/201...
Lu en été 2006, mais très peu de souvenirs m'en restent, donc c'est probablement pas de la grande littérature.
Novel about an arranged marriage. Focus on atmosphere, vigorous prose. The language was too difficult for me. It remembered me of La Portre Etroite by Gide.
