https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71776.At_Home_in_Mitford
See the full review at Literary Cafe: http://literarycafe.weebly.com/home/a..."My friend, if you keep your eyes on Christians, you will be disappointed every day of your life.
At Home in Mitford is one of the few Christian comedy novels I've ever read.
Sometimes you just need a lighthearted read that makes you smile.
I feel as if there should be so many more books and authors like this.
Many books become 'preachy', some to the point that they quote whole passages of scripture.
Tatie frowed up.Oh yes, Mitford is a lovely, sweet, Christian town, where they've kicked all the poor people out into the country so they don't have to look at them.
When someone tells Father Tim that there is suffering in town that he can't imagine, Tim's response is "And I don't want to know." And after 12 years of so-called ministry in this burg, he manages not to know about any problem that doesn't absolutely flatten him.
Mitford has created a world in which Christianity is easy, cosy, comfortable, homey.
All the people a Christian sees are highly educated and upper-middle-class.
I have to break up with this book. While the main character doesn't seem to have a "fatal flaw", the book does. It is too nice. Strolls in the warm sunshine, rosebushes, and hot cups of coffee... Others have called it a 'cozy read.' I just can't take it. To the author Jan Karon I say, "It's not you--it's me."
I never would have been drawn to these books had I not been desperate for a book to read and finding little in the way of selection in a hospital gift store... I was in a period of feeling quite low with yet another medical challenge to face with our son. If you are dealing with a "winter" season or you know someone who is--run, don't walk to the nearest bookstore and buy Karon's books. Authentic characters, heart warming stories and uplifting messages leaving you a better person for having read them.
When you let God fill you with HIs love and forgiveness, the things you think you desperately want to hold on to start falling away...
172 For a long time afterward, he sat by the fire, feeling the joy of Christmas, and knowing with unsearchable happiness that Christ did, indeed, live in his heart.
It was religion that had got me, it was God Himself who had me at last, and it was the most thrilling time of my life.
One walked out on the board, reviewed the situation, planned one's strategy, bounced a few times to get the feel of things, and then made a clean dive.
This book is amazing!
I absolutely love Jan Karon's writing style.
Each of the characters feel so real and have so much depth, yet there is no "back story dump" Simplistic and to the point.
This is a book I have read 4 or 5 times, and I keep coming back to it!
Honestly the best piece of fiction I have ever read!
The beautiful themes of grace, mercy and God's goodness are simply and engagingly put, and oh so inspiring!
I would recommend it for ages 13 and up, due to very mild language and somewhat mature themes.
A MUST READ!!!
The characters in Mitford are mostly lovable, even Homeless Hobbes, and the love stories are a delight to read.
Reading At Home in Mitford is like watching a teleserye (TV soap opera), you only need to spend 30 minutes every day for one episode and then look forward to another episode on the following day.
Or maybe it is like reading a string of short stories tied together and bound into a single book.
If you don’t mind doing simultaneous reading, you can pair this with a more fast-paced story, just like what I did, in order to break the monotony.Excerpt from 
So sweet and cozy. Reminded me a little of a Louise Penny book and her idyllic Three Pines but without the mystery and with a little more humor. So enjoyable!
This is not a book I can review in the normal fashion.Goodreads is saying I've read it twice, this being my second time.
I was firmly convinced even at the time that if she remembered some of the thematic material it contained--especially in books 2 and 3--she would never, ever have given it to me.
But she did, and I read it, and I loved it.
Especially since I found it at the time that I was beginning to come into my adult emotions, and instead of reading about teenagers destroying things and having shallow relationships, I was reading about adults seeking God and trying to do so much for him.
Go read it.
This was my first attempt to read a 5 star book from each friend's book list so I hate to give this one star, but it just wasn't my thing. I read about 150 pages, jumped to the very end and put it down. The author jumps from quaint small southern town situation to quaint small southern town situation without delving into the characters. You know what I think my problem is? No one in Mitford has a dark side. Not one person in the whole darn town.
Arguably, that's much the way things are in real life; most of the time, it takes awhile to get to know a new community and new people and to feel fully a part of things.) As my rating shows, it was worth sticking with it and giving it a chance; the number of stars I was prepared to give rose steadily as I read --which is always a nice experience, compared to the all-too-common reverse!Karon's central character here is a sixty-ish Episcopal priest, Father Tim (his last name is never given, as far as I can recall), rector of a small congregation in a little North Carolina mountain town, clearly modeled on the author's home community.
BRB.OK, so that is one of the 50 fattiest foods in America, a mixture of pig liver and head parts, a food indigenous to North Carolina that was perhaps used by the Anglophile author to indicate a familiarity with American folklore.There is a former alcoholic character named Homeless who isn't, but who is a former advertising exec who chose to return to the woods and speak the vernacular.
Th' only thing I didn't lose was m' self-respect, and that's because I didn't have any." Writer probably stole that from an AA meeting.Characters are banal, writing is labored, religious theory is given in heavy-handed doses, and what's with the valuable tapestry gathering dust in the rectory?This book made it into our bookshelves as a gift from a former girlfriend of my spouse.
This just wasn't for me. Many love this book and the series so I'm sure it's just a matter of reader/story compatibility. It's just too saccharine for my reading sensibilities.
When I began reading this story I thought I liked the simplicity of the characters, their Christian morals and the charm of the small town they lived in.
They were trying to convince you that they were a welcome part of the community, yet their descriptions were so superficial using perjorative terms to reinforce their "blackness"...i thought, "are you kidding me?" I've read books set in the early 1900's that i found less offensive than this story that took place in my lifetime.
I have forgiven myself for not being a fan of this book and I realize finally that it doesn't diminish my Christianity.
A pleasant read about the sorts of people I think we all know - decent folks from various backgrounds trying to live good Christian lives.
It's like the meet and greet at church where you shake hands with a lot of people who apparently have things all together, but once you've lived and prayed with them you start to see the struggles.
Plus, I love seeing a book with all the readability of a better class of romance that doesn't need to confine itself to the "boy meets girl" formula in order to be heartwarming and interesting.
It's been a long time since I spent whole afternoons reading a book, but At Home in Mitford hooked me so fast that I spent a very happy weekend living there myself.
The characters are real, honest, and flawed in the most endearing ways, and I spent most of the book pulling for all of them.
Perhaps best of all, it reacquainted me with hope, with faith in God, and with the extraordinary beauty of living a simple life.I spent a lot of time searching for a word that would sum it up--quaint and charming seemed much too cliche, for it is much more than that.
Father Tim. And my least favorite part in three words: Dooley is crude.But that’s no proper review at all.
;)I spent several years of my childhood in a sweet, small town as the daughter of a pastor who loves C.S. Lewis, poetry, and quiet walks much like Father Tim. Reading this book felt like coming home.
The same with Miss Sadie.) I think my favorite part of the book was the chapter “The Finest Sermon”.
;) Even though Father Tim was Episcopalian, I was never uncomfortable with his views and found myself especially impressed that he was comfortable with a Baptist preacher filling in for him.
You’ll just have to read the book.
I unapologetically love this book.
What's funny is that I decidedly did NOT love it the first time I read it, years ago.
I joined a fabulous Facebook Group that reads four chapters a week.Knowing the full arc of the story, I revel in little clues given in this first book.
Near the front cover of the book I record authors, composers, artists that are referenced.
I bought the new Putnam edition, with its gorgeous cover (goodbye ghastly Penguin orange!) and am happily marking it up.
These are life books, books I hope to re-read several more times, but whose presence on my bookshelf is in itself a benediction.
A very sweet meandering book. An Episcopalian priest is unhappy. His mentor suggests he find a wife, so he gets a dog. Hey, makes sense to me. Dogs are excellent company.  A good story with eccentric characters and a strong plot, but it strolls along slowly.
3 stars - It was good.Lots of cornbread, church, and small town southern charm in this one.
It reads like a family friendly TV series with a warm feel and uplifting messages.
Father Tim and the quirky town inhabitants eventually grew on me and I loved that the author included quotes and passages from numerous authors.
I generally prefer a bit more plot and substance to sink my teeth into, but for those times you are seeking a feel-good, light and positive read, this would be a fitting choice.
I've heard that the series gets better and am willing to revisit the little town of Mitford.
I've been hearing about these books for years, but finally read one today...and really enjoyed it! Can't wait to read the sequels!
Mitford is a fictional small town in North Carolina on the edge of the Blue Ridge Mountains (another thing that drew me to the book).
I like small towns and I love the Blue Ridge Mountains and all parts of Appalachia.
Karon’s main character is Father Tim, a sixtyish bachelor rector in the local Episcopalian Church.
Readers are soon introduced to a plethora of Mitford town characters, all with their own quirks, admirable, and not-so-admirable traits.
The main reason I liked it is because I could identify with Father Tim. No, I am not comparing myself to a man of the cloth.
(It might be NC because the state is only mentioned once.) I've been reading a lot of books that are filled with profanity, sex, and violence that come across as very realistic.
But is that any more realistic than the utopia Jan Karon has created with Mitford?
Part of the problem is that she shows us the world strictly through Father Tim's rose-colored glasses.
Maybe I would have connected more if the story focused more on the relationship between Father Tim and Dooley, with a good dose of Barnabas thrown in.
I felt really good reading it.
The interesting thing about this book and series is that it's so different from all of the other Christian fiction that I've read.
Well, you've found it with the Mitford series.
It centers on the quaint, charming little town of Mitford, NC, sent straight from Central Casting to play the perfect little slice of 1950's Americana set in the modern day.
I particularly enjoy the way the author seems to be writing from a much more mature place theologically than so many other Christian fiction authors.
Mitford is a charming small town, slightly old fashioned and conservative where people look out for each other.
A warm comforting read about the everyday life of quirky, interesting people in a small town where nothing too bad ever happens.
Father Tim is a wonderful character, often human and a little flawed himself he always brings out the best in people with his quiet patience and kindness.
I'm pleased to see there are another nine books in the series so I'll be able to enjoy visiting Father Tim in Mitford again!
This novel is the exact opposite of my normal fare.
I'm not sure why I picked it up.
We buy lots of books at library sales so often get older novels.
Set in a small town, populated with eccentrics, At Home in Mitford tells the story of Father Tim (I know, right?
Me reading a book with a religious undertone?
But I LOVED this book.
Jan Karon's descriptions of small town life and its inhabitants are delicious.
I never wanted to leave Mitford.
Wish I lived there?
This book felt like the childhood we all wish we had.
Did I say I loved it?
Happy contented sigh. A feel good book that makes you love life. I must read more of her books.
My mom has wanted me to read this book for ages.
This book was on her side table and I read parts of it to her.
Well, I got married right after that and then came two kids to live with us, so I never did get to read it.
I love how she has a map at the front of the book, showing you where the different places are in Mitford.
I'm already hooked!One more thing - I stayed up WAY too late on far too many nights reading this because I just couldn't put it down.
The book was absolutely, unequivocally boring. Sweet, boring dreck. It was misguided and full of unbelievable 1 dimensional characters. When it started with Father Tim "meandering" it never stopped. What makes me feel the worst about it is that I spent any time at all reading it. Depth, some reviewers say? Seriously? It was as deep as a communion cup. I need more of a spiritual, emotional and mental challenge. Yep, for Lent I'm going to study atonement and it's off to James Cone's "The Cross and the Lynching Tree" for me.
This book was kindly sent by my dear friend Jeannette, thank you so much!!This is a perfect comfort book, describing the life and inhabitants in Mitford, South Carolina.Page 191:"Nothing is more wearying," Agatha Christie had said, "than going over things you have written and trying to arrange them in proper sequence or turn them the other way round."
