https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6976.The_Mermaid_Chair
I loved the religious themes that ran through this book, I loved the stories of growing up on an island, I loved the Mermaid aspect of this story.So why the rating of “did not like?” I’m really tired of stories where the lead character decides they need to drastically change their life.
They decide to walk away from a secure (albeit bland) life and a stable (albeit ordinary) lover/spouse who has given them a lifelong commitment.After making the decision to leave the said stable relationship the lead character always (and I mean ALWAYS) manages to convince themselves (and the reader) that it isn’t just “lust” that draws them into this new relationship—oh no, it’s TRUE LOVE.
This book is so corny it will pass straight through you, undigested.
Although I thoroughly enjoyed "The Secret Life Of Bees" by the same writer, I found this book to be a far different sort of read.
In Bees, while I enjoyed the plot, it was the characters that I found myself hooked to.
The main character I found to be whiny, annoying, selfish, and someone I just couldn't connect to on any level.
This errked me in that I feel I MAY have been able to connect a little more with the protagonist's plight had the narration been 3rd person.
This book tackles a difficult subject: how can you fall in love with someone else while still married to a wonderful man who hasn't changed?
The goodreads complaints were that Jessie has no reason to fall for another man--her husband is seemingly perfect, and she's just selfish and awful for not wanting him.
But I loved the gray areas of the story, and I didn't find myself able to judge her easily (and I'm pretty judgmental!) The story is this: Middle aged artist and housewife Jessie returns to her childhood home off the coast of South Carolina to care for her aging and depressed mother.
Very disappointed in this book since I loved "The Secret Life of Bees".
The best thing I can say about it is that it is highly readable...an easy summer read.
I believe in lust at first site, a spark that makes you want to get to know someone, etc.
And if you can't buy into this, then you can't buy into the book.
I don't think she gives her readers much credit.
If a reader wants a simple summer read and finds a forbidden romance titillating, this is the book for you.
Her writing is also very eloquent and deep, but fun and witty at the same time.There are no characters in The Mermaid Chair that are reminiscent of any in The Secret Life of Bees, and specifically what Kidd was worried about was people might roll there eyes at another pack of strong female characters taking presidence in the book.
And though Hugh is the only one painted as having any flaws, they're pointed out to us by Jessie who, after twenty years of marriage, has come to find some things he does annoying, which she later comes to realize (and we know) are more endearing.Personally, I liked The Secret Life of Bees over The Mermaid Chair because I just found that one more interesting...
terrible. Middle-life crisis dribble. It was like gargling salt water.
NO.NO!Give me a break.
There is NOT love at first sight.
LUST.Not love!
That just pisses me off and sets a pissy tone for the rest of the book.Bored woman goes to take care of crazy mom on island that is full of monks.
Woman sees monk says "oh, I'm in love, he's part of my soul!" Monk sees woman and decides he's in love.
Oh, and mom reveals reason for dad's death...
no longer crazy.blah blah blah.Sorry this is a craptastic review, but the whole "love at first" sight stuff got me all grouchy.
The main character in this book just seemed like a whiner to me.
Boo hoo, my husband won't "let" me be myself.
I found nothing wrong with her husband.
He seemed like an intelligent, sensitive guy, and the minute he lets her out of his sight she boinking a monk.
This is her solution to him not "letting" her be herself.
Plus, this is the second book Kidd wrote with wierd new-Agey, quasi-feminist quasi-religious rituals in them.
Religion is serious business.
throwing threads in the ocean and holding hands is just girlish silliness compared to a real religion.
Like my reviews?Check out my blog at http://www.kathrynbashaar.com/blog/
I do think "The Secret Life of Bees" was better--I enjoyed the characters and storyline in Bees more so than "The Mermaid Chair." The main character of Jessie drove me crazy sometimes because, as everyone thinks, she could be so selfish sometimes when it came to her mother and her husband.
True, it's a little unbelievable Jessie would choose to pretty much ignore her mother's mental state and spend most of her time and energy in love with a monk.
But when you think about it, their relationship had been strained for a long time and people can be in denial and choose distraction over reality.
I don’t want to be mean, but “The Mermaid Chair” isn’t your best work.
Your first novel, “The Secret Life of Bees” was wonderful – full of imagery and emotion.
I was expecting more of your magic, but “The Mermaid Chair” is just another novel about a middle-aged woman in a rut.
You explore some compelling ideas: marriage, infidelity, betrayal, guilt, forgiveness, grief and faith, but you don’t really add anything to that oh-so-told story.
Don’t tell us a story – let us feel something.
Readers who want another story of female mid-life angst can get their hit from an hour of Oprah; they don’t have to invest time in your book.
Not nearly as inspirational or moving as author's first novel, Secret Life of Bees.
In his case he was questioning his faith, his existence, everything and was reaching out to anything that might pull him back to Life.
In the woman's case, she was simply bored and unfulfilled in her marriage and was searching for self rather than any meaning of Life.
Anytime we put self ahead of all else we lose sight of everything meaningful.
The woman in the story was selfish and self-absorbed and hurt the people she loved most.
In The Mermaid Chair, Sue Monk Kidd provides one of the finest opening lines in any novel. A beautiful story about the choices and challenges women face in middle age.
This probably isn't the best time to write a review of this book since I just finished it a few hours ago and am still quite upset by it.
I grew up in South Carolina and miss it very much and so I started reading.The first part of the book dragged a little, although I loved the descriptions of the south and the ocean.
Here is one of those quotes that I particularly appreciate."These paroxysms were, I realized later, a kind of aftershock.
It was the peculiar vertigo, the peculiar humility, that comes from realizing what you are really capable of.
No other ending would have made sense for me, as much as I wanted another ending earlier in the book.We all have likely struggled with a decision or two that would change the course of our lives.
She resolved herself to overcoming her condition of wanting "more" or at least "different" and began to see what was in front of her from the beginning.I had not read SMK previously, and was led to this book by someone who had.
Well this bored me to tears. Empty pointless story. It had slight potential but it seemed the author was not skilled enough to get anywhere near pulling it off. It was so bad that it made me wonder if a ghostwriter was used for The Secret Life of Bees, I just can't fathom how these are written by the same person.
The way she captured Jessie's marriage and home life was so spot-on that I wondered if this was semi-autobiographical for the author.I noticed a few reviewers commenting that they were tired of this whole concept, that a bored, dissatisfied wife runs off and falls in love immediately with someone she met 2 minutes ago, has a wild and unrepentant sexual romp, then realizes she misses her home life (which was never bad enough to condone leaving it behind in the first place), and returns without any real consequences.
I loved this book. I could see its story being a beautiful, quirky movie. With not the greatest of goodreads ratings, I am mystified as to why. Sue Monk Kidd is such a graceful, intelligent, free-spirited writer. I suggest readers of this book abandon cynicism and daily reality doldrums and instead embrace your heart full of dreams and folklore, with the open understanding of others' life choices. This novel, full of artful mermaid, ocean love, is relevant and faithful, an inquisitive bookclub choice, and such a visual sea-full and soulful journey of independence.
This is a ridiculous story about a selfish conceited person having a midlife crisis and really not caring much about the damage her decisions make.
Totally unrealistic men: her cuckolded husband (on learning the truth): “..he’d hoped his suffering was not being squandered, that somewhere inside it was making him pliant and tender.” Right.
That’s just where most men go - gosh i hope this makes me soft and fluffy.
On 30 mattresses and STILL the bed’s not soft enough?: “I felt as if I’d found the fairytale pea”.
Pretty much everyone else in the story is more interesting and compelling than our protagonist (i use the word loosely).
From a blog post I wrote in 2005:If you've read The Secret Life of Bees, Sue Monk Kidd's first novel, you probably have high expectations for her latest work, The Mermaid Chair.
I hope she writes a sequel.Mermaid Chair has some of the same elements as Bees: quirky characters, long held secrets, romance and long time friendships.
It was an interesting enough story but I never connected to the main character, a woman in her 40s who's feeling distanced from her marriage/husband and who has to return to her hometown to care for her crazy/ill/somewhat estranged Mother.
When I saw that this book was on the goodreads "unpopular" shelve, I decided to write a review on why I liked this book.
Probably the most stated reason that this book is unpopular is because readers compare and contrast it to the author's previous award winning work, The Secret Life of Bees.
I think that people who loved the Secret Life must have anticipated that Monk Kidd's follow up would somehow cater to the same audience, and then they were disappointed.
I have not yet completely read the Secret Life, but my English Department is picking it up as a contemporary novel for the curriculum.
Maybe it was just the wrong time to have read this book, but I hated the main character, found the "instant-love" ridiculous and decided that though the writing wasn't too bad the story is too contrived to actually be any good.
Horrible new age romantic schlock with a side of southern gothic. On the plus side, it makes a great hate read, and your eye-roll muscles will get a fine workout.
However, the author likes to use symbolism but doesn't trust that her readers understand it, so a lot of time is spent telling us things we could probably figure out, for example, that water is a symbol of sensuality.
Even if you didn't know that in the beginning, you'd know it after ten pages of reading about the intensely erotic relationship the main character has with it and the many erotic paintings she has created in an erotic, watery, sensuous kind of way.
Like water.That said, it's enjoyable book to read.
I'll start this review by saying I usually steer clear of books with adultery.
I started this audiobook not knowing it was about adultery until I was already engrossed in it.
She and her mother had this strange falling out about a robe with a dragon on it that didn't seem like the line in the sand they made it out to be.
Jessie's also using this as a way to have a time out from her husband Hugh.
While on the island, she falls in love with a monk who hasn't taken his final vows and they begin a very intense affair.
Jessie also seems to fall back in love with the island.
While on the island, she comes across a monk that she eventually falls in love with.
The story goes back and forth between caring for the mother and the love affair between Nell and the monk.
In between the loose fragments of story there was a tale about a Mermaid Chair and the author kept going back to it but I never really felt it tied the story lines together other than providing an island backdrop for the story.
I don't think I will read another book by this author again.
that sue monk kid might be a one hit wonder..just joking but secrt lives of bees was an all time fav for me and i was extremely disappointed in this book. did not connect with character at all. save your money buy the second book from the author of the kite runner...he proved himself with his second novel.
This was just the summer tale I needed about a girl returning home, having a total breakdown while dealing with her mother’s breakdown and confronting all of her demons at once. Oh yeah, there is also an affair with a monk and mermaids. I love the scene where she makes an oath to herself in a sort of marriage ceremony promising to love herself first and most of all. I think we can all take a tip from her on that one ☝🏻🧜♀
This was just the summer tale I needed about a girl returning home, having a total breakdown while dealing with her mother’s breakdown and confronting all of her demons at once. Oh yeah, there is also an affair with a monk and mermaids. I love the scene where she makes an oath to herself in a sort of marriage ceremony promising to love herself first and most of all. I think we can all take a tip from her on that one ☝🏻🧜‍♀️
I really wanted to like this book and after being pleasantly surprised (and touched) by "The Secret Life of Bees" I was pretty eager to read it.
I was disappointed in the characters, the themes, the motivations and the plot overall.
But overall it was a bit of a let down and I may have expected too much of it because of the previous read.
So I apologize for wanting that "heck yeah!" feeling I got with "Secret Life of Bees" and should have just let this one present itself on its own without pretext.
The Mermaid Chair ranks extremely high on my list of all-time favorite books.
Once there, she is drawn to a beautifully carved chair which resides inside the Benedictin monastery.
The chair is carved with mermaids.
On the Island, Jessie is also unexpectedly drawn to Brother Thomas, a monk.
Jessie finds herself drawn in to the island's mysteries, all the while trying to figure out what is going on with mother, and what to do about her attraction to Brother Thomas, despite her love for Hugh.
