https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281881.The_Go_Getter
This is the test of the Go-Getter.Peck is assigned the task of purchasing a particular blue vase from a certain market place.
He hunts everywhere for the vase and finally, after hours of tiresome walking, he sees it sitting in a shop window of a store called "B Cohen's Art Shop".
Peck gets hold of Joost, but Joost can't meet Peek until nine o'clock, one hour after the train leaves with Cappy!Without going into the remainder of this short story, I can definitely say that The Go-Getter offers timeless advice about meeting goals, learning from experience, asking the right questions, and tackling tough projects with unflagging zeal.
The book runs along the lines of the "Who Moved My Cheese" approach (though it was written in the 20's) of using a short story to explain a few very basic (though powerful) principles.
This book really sums up the guiding principle of consulting: Even if you aren't sure you can do it, tell yourself that you can, figure out how to pull it off and execute (and don't give up).
A great little short story (though somewhat unrealistic - I don't know of any human being that would go to all of the trouble of the main character) that reminds us of what we can accomplish when our backs are against the wall and we never give up.

Not to give away anything, but the character, if not stopped, would have made some immoral and illegal decisions to reach his goal, and the protagonist of the story would have been good with that.
As much as I want to be a Go-Getter and have Go-Getters in my organization, immoral and illegal methods are not welcome.I enjoy Mr. Ramsey's podcast and I understand that he preaches Go-Getter mentality, and I agree that the intention of this book is purely good, I just worry that the message new leaders will take away is - do what is needed whether moral or immoral; whether legal or illegal.That major concern brought my rating from a 4-star to a 2-star.

This is a wonderful short about the story of a go-getter.
Peck a war veteran demonstrates the qualities of a go-getter.
What you have here is a war veteran with an amputated leg and hand.
Many people might read this and think, this is just silly, but I believe it's a matter of perspective.
You can read it and each person will learn something based on his own flaws.This book written in 1920 taught me a few things:- The motto, "It shall be done, sir."-Discipline-Go above and beyond what is asked-Persistence- Never refuse-Take every opportunity-Never say "It can't be done."
Short book - can easily be read in one sitting - but powerfully inspirational. Get this book on your shelf and read it often!
It tells the story of war veteran William "Bill" Peck and his efforts to get a job at a Logging & Lumber Company.
He comes to Cappy without an appointment and basically tells Cappy that Peck is the man for whatever job Cappy wants to throw at him.
However, at the same time, he makes the job as difficult as possible by giving Peck what is considered (as I understood it) the worst sales assignment in the company.I don't want to go through the whole plot with you (it's a short book…and it seems to be in the public domain if you want to read it online for free).
Written in the 1920s, when the business of America was business, this reprint tells a story of how a handicapped man used his "go-getter" attitude to overcome the odds.
In order to get that precious position, the disabled man must pass the Blue Vase Test (which means he has to find this object and deliver it at a certain time).
As the reader soon discovers, the task is not as easy as it sounds.
It's all about loyalty to the task and the organization.
It might work better on youngsters just getting into the workforce.Book Season = Year Round (sir, yes sir)
A quick read about getting the job done. It tells the story of a veteran who wants a job with a lumber company and his resolve to get the job. When he gets the job, unbeknownst to him. he is put to a test . The story continues with his resolve to finish the task.
Are you a Go-Getter? This quick read lets you know what it means to be one.
This is a good story about the willingness to grab what you're dreaming of and the rewards that come.
I am not in sales at my company and never intend to be a salesperson; however, I think anyone in any position can find important morals in the story.I feel I've always been a hard worker.
However, my main issue with the story is that it feels like the author is encouraging you to literally always find a way to complete the task, be it legal or illegal.
Going against your morals and/or the law should not be something you should have to do to prove your self-worth.Other than that little concern, the story was a cute way to encourage employees to be a go-getter, and I really appreciate my boss for gifting me this book.
El maquinista era alguien muy confiado para dejar subir a un desconocido que detiene su tren a la fuerza.
Creo que era más fácil esperar en la estación final cuando el tren hubiere arribado a su destino, para poder entregar el jarrón.En fin, la moraleja es que mi jefe quiso darme a entender que espera de mí más del cien por ciento, así que cuando me pida algo tengo que estar seguro de entregar más allá de lo que me pide.
In general, I hate parable-based, lesson in a story books.
However, this book is different and I sincerely appreciate that.
Kyne wrote this book with a simplicity reminiscent of the worldview of the 1920s, where grit, determination and work ethic prevailed.
Although technological advancements have changed how work gets done and how we define "hard work", the principles outlined by Kyne apply today - be a person of integrity, persevere, and follow through on your commitments.If books were defined by the return on time spent reading, this one would be worthy of 5 stars.
This fictional story of a World War II amputee and his crafty but well meaning albeit unbiased and impartial employer "Cappy" Rick not only warms the deepest cockles of every heart but also serves as a beacon of inspiration.
This book needs to read by everyone, young and old, able and the differently abled, prince and pretender.
All of 76 pages, this work will make you go to it again and again and again.
The exploits and the admirable determination of William Peck in spite of being seriously maimed in the Great War is worthy of emulation by every individual striving to make a mark, personally as well as professionally.
An inspiring read that has emphasizes the importance of persistence, confidence and belief in oneself as well as not letting personal imperfections or disabilities hinder one to succeed.Peck is a war veteran who limps slightly and has half his arm chopped off due to the war. However, he still goes on to look for a job at a woodworking firm and succeeds in turning the odds against him and ultimately earning a better and lucrative position. A short read but a mine of information and inspiration is within the pages of this book.
This small story, narrates brief encounter depicting, if you are fully dedicated then every job is possible. Story is fast, engaging and sets a thriller type enigma. Everybody will find it worth a read. It revolves around new recruit in company who is handed over a difficult job, which if he fails is going to get him fired. This lovely story shows if you are desperate enough, goals will not betray you.
Esta es la historia de un hombre con el deseo de ser productivo y trabajar para una compañía respetable y prestigiosa. El hace todo lo posible para enfrentar las pruebas que le ponen en camino los jefes y así determinar si en verdad es la persona adecuada para tan importante puesto en tan respetable empresa. Aun sin importar las capacidades especiales que él como nuevo empleado tiene, da el todo por el todo.Inspiracional para dar el todo por el todo aunque fue predecible.
Quick read with valuable lessons, straightforward characters, and funny situations. I don't read a lot of literature from this period so the dialect was different from what I'm used to, but I definitely laughed out loud at a lot of Cappy's lines! This is a book you can read in an hour on a lazy Sunday and then use to reflect on your own life afterward.
If you have signed up for the Goodreads Challenge and find yourself short a book or two, this 55 page book, first published in 1921, would be an easy way to rack up a "read."Otherwise I don't especially recommend it. Judging by its 4 star rating, others do.Unless they too wanted a quick read?It is an entertaining enough tale.
Great points illustrated in this story about perseverance and never losing focus on the end goal. Unlike the current books solicited to drive this point home, "The Go-Getter" is a tale written in 1921 to illustrate some great points. Not your average business or leadership book. Interesting read! I read it since it's on Dave Ramsey's team's must-read list and I was not disappointed.
Short, but powerful parable story about powering through obstacles, as well as how to be a leader who promotes growth. This book can be read in under an hour - perfect for a waiting room read or lunch hour time passer. Will definitely be required reading for any future employees, as well as children of mine.
A fairly quick 45 page read written in the twenties. The written old language is a bit to get used to but it eventually flows. For me, this book was about setting specific goals and being persistent in achieving it. No matter what obstacle gets in the way the character still overcomes it. A sheer test of strength and endurance. A good read worth coming back to in times of doubt.
A very quick read that basically tries to induce the go-getter attitude into the readers through a quick story. Definitely worth a try, especially because the amount of time the reader needs to invest is very less, and yet is inspiring.
This was a very inspirational read in a short amount of time.I highly recommend this short read. It is truly inspiring. It made me laugh and then unexpectedly bawl my eyes out. My motivation to be a go getter is re-jetted.
The Go-Getter is a Magic PillThe Go-Getter is a Magic Pill because there area lot of sentence that a reader can bring home to their mind. One can read a sentence from the book and remember it for the rest of the day.
Quick read. Too quick, actually. Really riveting. The story demonstrates well the need for go-getters. It teaches the lesson of a work ethic, exhausting the options, and sticking with something until it's done. All lessons that most employees struggle with.
Quick and to the point- basically, are you wishy washy in your commitments and attitude, or do you say "It shall be done"? A short story illustrating how easy it can be to stop as soon as we hit an obstacle, but that successful people, the go-getters, are those that don't let obstacles deter them.
A must read book. Takes only an hours or so.
