https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194637.The_Black_Moon
"Blemishes on the beauty of a person one loves are like grace notes adding something to a piece of music." Have I mentioned before that I am completely wild about the Poldark series?!
In my case, the love affair is with a bunch of books written by the gifted author, Winston Graham.
You can scroll right past my review if you like and I’ll never be the wiser ;)Anyway, back to the book itself.
As noted above, the pace is a tad slower (but not dragging) in the first part of the book; but once the story ignites, the pace is swift and exciting.
These books are a pure joy to read.
I love the Poldark series so much, even though I just finished book 5 and there are more to go!
I love the show even more as I love to see the people I love in action.
Season 4 is currently on PBS and I have already pre-ordered the season on blu-ray.
But it saddened me greatly when I got the email awhile back that they are filming season 5 right now and it will be the final season.
😕 I understand that some books do have an ending and so do their shows if they have one!
Happy Reading!
Winston Graham took a 20 year writing break between the fourth book of this series, Warleggan, and this fifth one, The Black Moon. At the beginning, I thought he might have lost his way during that hiatus, but boy was I wrong. He picked his story up and his characters led him into the heart of the battle. I wonder if there ever was a more believable and despicable villain than George Warleggan. I had initially intended to stop reading this series at book four so that I would not infringe on the
Winston Graham took a 20 year writing break between the fourth book of this series, Warleggan, and this fifth one, The Black Moon.
I had initially intended to stop reading this series at book four so that I would not infringe on the new season of the series which will begin later on this year.
I am so glad I decided to dive into this series of books.
Graham is a marvelous writer, with style, finesse and a great ability to develop characters you can love or hate, want to shake, slap or kiss.

Alright, after months of reading, and it being a little slow I had some trouble getting into it. But, overall, I enjoyed it none the less. Here’s the gist: this book had everything I’ve come to expect (and still love!) of the Poldark saga; love triangles, backstabbing, family feuds, broken hearts, and plenty of drama. In this installment, though, there was something new: prison escapes and (spoiler) murder.
5 STARS FUCKING BRILLIANT[image error]
Watching Ross and Demelza's love grow and develop is what makes these books worth reading.
I thought Demelza said something insightful on page 246: You see, Ross, in every right marriage, in every good marriage a woman has to be three things, don't she?
Then she's got to bear his children and get all swelled up like a summer pumpkin and then often-times feed them after and smell of babies and have them crawling all about her...
I'm so glad Ross saw the light and went for Demelza.
The tears are falling from my eyes, the fury is boiling over within me, and the joy.... there is joy. Oh what a story this author doest weave.
Este libro es algo más calmado que el anterior pero pasa de todo, hay mucha emoción, aventura, amor, desamor... Este hombre es un maestro a la hora de escribir, me encanta cómo transmite lo que piensan y sienten los personajes. Presiento que los demás libros van a estar marcados por la manifiesta enemistad entre los dos rivales de toda la saga.Y me he reconciliado (un poquito) con Ross.Cada vez estoy más contenta de haberme puesto a leer esta saga :)
Actual review: 4.5 “We can’t alter the world, we can only adapt ourselves to it.” I have quite a soft spot for the Poldarks and their extended family. The characters, the storylines and the drama is subtly interwoven in such a way that keeps me invested. Although not as good as the previous book, I was glad to see the characters move forward from the mess that had previously occurred. I did miss a few characters in this installment, and I was pleasantly surprised by how much I liked the addition
Although not as good as the previous book, I was glad to see the characters move forward from the mess that had previously occurred.
I am not yet that invested in their stories, but the way it’s going, I’m sure that I will want them to be as happy as possible, too.I must also tip my (imaginary) hat to Mr. Winston Graham, for his understanding of the female species, the complexity of relationships, and the ridiculous expectations about marriage.
I’m also glad our favourite couple is working through what happened in Warleggan.
No Ross and Elizabeth scenes! About time! Lol. So this book had it's slow moments and there was a lot at the end with the French that I didn't always follow, but it was a great book all in all. I LOVED the drake and morwenna storyline and I can't wait to see where it leads. Also, seeing Ross and demelza in domestic bliss is always a plus and I think despite certain events, they've somehow grown closer. Can't wait to continue!
Winston Graham sabe enganchar. Ahora aparecen nuevos personajes que enriquecen la trama, tanto para amar como para odiar.
Managed to pull me back into this time and place, among people that I love and hate, give me high adventure and simple pleasures, and continue the saga that just gets better and better.
He explained in a forward that he had grown tired of the novels and wanted to explore different styles of writing, but the characters kept whispering in his ear, and he decided to bring them back.
Life Lesson: keeping a piece of knowledge to yourself until the perfect time to release it is every bit as good as a dagger or a poison pill.Thank goodness Mr. Graham decided to continue with The Poldarks.
Set in Cornwall and a little bit in France 1794-95.Excellent writing and a plot that continues to pull me in.
There is still daily life in the tin and copper mining areas of Cornwall but in this volume we also see the invasion of France in 1795 at Quiberon.
And the venom it had left behind was working...For once in his life he felt ill and unsure of himself.
The spread of the poison was slow but steady.
He did not know if he could shake it off.
He did not know and only time would reveal the extent of the poison...
Trying to extricate Geoffrey Charles from his mother, hires Elizabeth's cousin Morwenna Chynoweth to be the boy's governess.
Demelza's two younger brothers come to Nampara with their Methodist principles and stirring up trouble.
I really like her character but she's a bit more demure in the book "Yes Ross" and a bit more socially conscious.
He gets a little less stuffy once he becomes friends with Drake and more like a normal 10-year-old boy.
He has come a long way since he first came to the neighborhood.The new characters here are Demelza's younger brothers Sam and Drake Carne.
*3,5*
In this, the 5th of the Poldark series, new characters are introduced and older characters rise to new heights to further complicate the feud between the Poldarks and the Warleggans.
Ross has not lost his intermittent craving for adventure and maybe even for danger.
Aunt Agatha is nearing 100, if not actually there, and has knowledge that can possibly make that rift even more pronounced.Winston Graham has created some great characters - to love and to hate.
This is good HF which I would highly recommend to those who love the genre.
I should wait until I recover from the ending before I will write a real review. Graham's characters are fully fleshed out and I have to keep reminding myself that these are not real people. Graham's descriptions of Cornwall seem almost reverential; he breathes life into the backdrop of this saga with great detail. The conflict between Ross Poldark and George Warleggan grows ever more dangerous and the suspense kept me GLUED to the pages of this book!Full review to follow.
The third time I have read this and loved it even more!The Poldark books are by far the best.Loved the 1970's series!I would recommend these as they have so much more than the recent t.v.series.
Another great installment with some new characters and some interesting developments with some of the old characters. Looking forward to the next in the series.
The author's note in the beginning of this book tells us he originally ended this series after 4 books.
However....all in all of course I still loved it!“God, thought Ross, it does work, and unfairly; but I want her, not any other, not the most beautiful eighteen-year-old damsel born out of a sea-shell, not the most seductive houri of any sultan's harem; I want her with her familiar gestures and her shining smile and her scarred knees, and I know she wants me in just the same way, and if there's any happiness more complete than this I don't know it and am not sure I even want it.” These two!
In the fifth book of the Poldark saga, new characters and some dangling threads are resolved, somewhat.
It starts off quite exciting, as Elizabeth is pregnant and adjusting to her new life as the wife of George Warleggan.
Two new characters are introduced, Morwenna Chynoweth and Drake Carne, and the relationship between them.
Those craving some action-adventure will find it when Ross heads off to France to rescue Dwight Enys from a prisoner-of-war camp at Quimper.
All in all, this makes a fine entry in the series, with plenty of fireworks and character development.
Fans will be satisfied.
This next lot of books was written 20 years after the first four.
I loved the first four, so was worried - would the women have morphed into 70s type women?
Would the writing have lost its emotional appeal and the romantic, dream-inducing, lyrical descriptions of landscapes both natural and blasted by black industries?
Would Ross still stride through the books like the handsome, swashbuckling outsider hero he has been?
Would Demelza still climb trees and befriend strays and lose her shoes, as well as retain her ability to pucture pretence and get to the heart of things?
This book is a shocking page-turner, with high drama, high stakes and passion through out.
Well, Ross has redeemed himself a little after screwing up royally in Warleggan.Actually, I wonder if there is a character in Western literature as nasty as George Warleggan?
What he does to Aunt Agatha in this book is absolutely disgusting, although she does strike back hard.
He seems to have no heart whatsoever, and I can't wait to find out what he does with the Valentine issue.Drake Carne is an interesting new character, although I definitely missed the presence of Dwight Enys for most of this book.
My heart bleeds for Morwenna...Once again, Winston Graham's extremely engaging characters and plot lines enthralled me.
Oh, Winston Graham, I must ask: what is your secret? Only a superb writer could write such a sweeping, riveting series. Never before have I detested a fictional character so much. George Warleggan is a dirty, rotten, conniving, bullying, dastardly, parvenu scoundrel. How do you do it? How do you recreate the history of the time so authentically? How do you casually insert at least 30 words lost and forgotten by the modern English language?!? Oh, Winston Graham, I do declare: keep those Poldark books a'coming!
I shouldn't have finished this book tonight because how am I going to sleep?!? Many emotions are swirling around... but mostly sadness and, the main one, FURY! I had no idea I would end up abhorring three different characters in this one book. George Warleggan, damn you to hell. But not before you get damned, most putrid Whitworth.You are the scummiest scum the pond ever saw. Oh, and Elizabeth. Congrats, lady, you finally made my shit list.Heartbreaking end to this book in so many ways. I must read on fast to get some good news to make up for this!
Boy, shit is going to go DOWN in the next book.HOLD MY BEER.
ε ρε τι έχει να γίνει...! poor Aunt Agatha!
The Black Moon wasn't as good as the previous four parts. But I still love this series and I can't wait till I'll read the next parts.
His wife Elizabeth (once Ross Poldark's great love) has given birth to a son, Valentine.
Her son from her previous marriage to Ross' cousin Francis, Geoffrey Charles, has been given a governess, Morwenna Chynoweth (a cousin of Elizabeth's) to tutor him.
Two of Demelza's brothers, Sam and Drake Carne, both ardent Methodists, come to Ross and Demelza, seeking a new life for themselves in the community.
With the coming of the Carnes, Methodism in the community is given a considerable boost, which doesn't sit well with a number of the local notables.
There is also a developing relationship between Morwenna and Drake, which creates further conflict between the Poldarks and the Warleggans.
