https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682920.The_Little_Mouse_the_Red_Ripe_Strawberry_and_the_Big_Hungry_Bear
This was my favorite picture book as a kid that my grandma used to read to me every time I went to visit her in California, and after years of asking for it, my grandma let me keep the book. I reread it and basked in its glory, reliving how much I loved hearing my grandma read it to me. It's cute and sweet and iuhsfjlkrjfhudijiosd childhood, dudes. i miss it.
5 Superbly Cute ★'sI loved this book so much, it was definitely one of my most favorites as a child :) I wanted it read to me over and over again.
Being an adult now, I love that I can read all my favorites to my little niece and still appreciate them just as much as I did back then.
I just loved the little Mouse so much!
It's a great read-aloud book, the narrator is always talking directly to the little mouse and the humor is just perfect!
An unseen narrator terrifies a not-so-bright mouse with warnings of a huge, strawberry-craving bear until the mouse is tricked into sharing the fruit with the narrator.
I thought this was a little too mean -- the mouse is really terrified!
I guess we are supposed to laugh at what a sucker the little rodent is?
I didn't have this one as a kid so I can't say if I would have thought it was funny then.
Or maybe it is supposed to open a discussion about trust or something?Anyway, the mouse gets some food, too, and seems happy enough in the end, so I guess it's okay.
It's cute, but it's still fear and deception.
The whole premise of the book is that the narrator is warning the mouse that the big hungry bear is coming to eat the mouse's strawberry...
It's cute and happy, but ultimately it seems that there really isn't a big hungry bear...
there is just a hungry narrator wanting a share of the mouse's food, and choosing not to go about getting it honestly.I realize that might seem like I'm reading into it too much, but I am just not comfortable with any form of deception being encouraged in the books that we read to our children.
4.5 stars Now, I have been reading Audrey and Don Wood’s works for many years, especially many of their earlier works including “The Napping House,” “Heckedy Peg” and “King Bidgood’s in the Bathtub.” So, imagine my delight when I finally got around to one of their most highly praised books that I never had the chance to read when I was little called “The Little Mouse, the Red Ripe Strawberry, and the Big Hungry Bear” and I was pleasantly surprised by the results!The story starts off with a litt
Don and Audrey Wood did a fantastic job at making the narrative creative and suspenseful at the same time as we also worry about how the mouse will save its strawberry from the big hungry bear while in a way encouraging the mouse to find clever ways to hide the strawberry.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, “The Little Mouse, the Red Ripe Strawberry and the Big Hungry Bear” is a truly cute story about trickery and suspense that children who are fans of Don and Audrey Wood’s works will get a kick out of!
Okay. WHY is this book so gosh-darn-cute!? It is SO simple. But there is something undeniably charming about Wood & Wood--the story just zips along, goes SO perfectly with the illustrations--it is a great read-aloud as the narrator is always talking directly to the little mouse.
Oh. So. Incredibly. Cute!Love!Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
A little mouse finds a red ripe strawberry, and is warned by the narrator that "The big, hungry bear can smell a red, ripe strawberry a mile away..." What can be done?
The mouse trying to disguise the strawberry (with Groucho glasses) is a hoot.I suspect, along with most adult readers, that the narrator is trying to (view spoiler)[frighten the mouse into sharing the strawberry with him (hide spoiler)] but my 7, 5, and 2 year-olds are completely immune to subtext and take everything at face value.
So there's that.A sequel exists, Merry Christmas, Big Hungry Bear, for which I will be on the look-out.
This is a fun, reader interaction sort of story. It's one that can be read with a lot of dramatic voice exaggeration. Trust me, this picture book will only get better the more you read it!
Despite the fact that I KNOW I had a copy for my second graders, I've never read this book. And it is cute, cute, cute! A mouse finds a delicious red strawberry. The narrator warns the mouse that bears loooove strawberries and are sure to find it, no matter what you do. Finally, the mouse and the narrator share the strawberry and all's well that ends well. A beautifully illustrated picture book. A wonderful bedtime book and a great choice for preschool students.
A solid level 1 reading book for children that all ages can enjoy. A cute story that had all three of my children engaged and wondering how it would end. The illustrations are beautiful, big, and colorful, which made it a particular enjoyment for me too. A good family read that I can see us reading again in the future.
I think the narrator is taking advantage of the mouse's generosity with scare tactics. My favorite page is the one with the disguises.
This is the first book I ever really loved and read it (or well, had my mom read it to me) over 100 times. I still know the words to this book by heart ("hello little mouse what are you doing?").
Omgosh! Love this book so much. Was my son's absolute favorite when he was 1-3 years old.
I really liked the illustrations in the book.
I think that they would be really good to use with children in year one or reception where they would have to order the pictures.
The only negative that I have about this book is the fact that there really isn’t a big hungry bear and I feel that children of this age bracket would find difficult to understand.
I have read this book to year one children, whereby I took on the role of the narrator.
However, I really did feel that the children loved this book, especially the “SNIFF SNIFF SNIFF” AND “ BOOM BOOM BOOM”.
Sean has taken a new liking to a book he's had for a while, The Little Mouse, the Red Ripe Strawberry, and the Big Hungry Bear. We had to read it quite a few times last night. Fortunately it's rather short. I think he likes the threat of the bear and the deep booming voice Ian uses when the narrator is describing the bear.
I checked this out of the library right after reading Heather's review about it.She was right, it was great. And it's a children's book that doesn't get old even after N x 14 readings. (If N > 1)
My daughter received this book for her birthday last week and absolutely loves it. The story is told as if the reader is talking directly to the mouse in the story. I also love that it's a book I don't mind reading over and over since that's often what my daughter wants.
it was a really good childrens book i read it when i was younger like so many time
One of our all time favorite books for sure ! We love the simple cute story and the wonderful illustrations!Truly a book to be read and admired over and over again - no matter how old you are!
OML THIS BOOK SCARED ME WHEN I WAS LITTLE BUT I STILL LOVED IT???????
Another book I love to read to my kids. I need a new copy because the one I have is falling apart.
Summary: The story begins with a little mouse who wants to pick a strawberry but the narrator tells him bears love strawberries.
In the end the mouse and narrator split the strawberry and eat it and the bear never shows up.Reflection: LOVE IT!!!
The pictures show a high level of emotion.
I just love this story!Use in Class: This story is just a good read.
The emotions in the pictures are just AWESOME!!
I would probably just use this story for those times where the class 'just needs a break' and could find humor in this.
A fun story and beautiful illustrations.
One thing I love about exploring children's lit is when I come across a book I completely forgot existed but loved as a child. This is one of those. Clever plot and cute ending.
I thought the illustrations were great but the story without the illustrations was just OK and certainly not great.
SO MUCH NOSTALGIA. This was one of my absolute favorites as a child and I had completely forgotten about it. I'm so pleased to have rediscovered it.
The red ripe strawberry is the main reason I wanted to read this book! Oh my, a delicious story. Beautifully illustrated.
I've read this book in storytimes several times now and it's always a hit. Once, after I'd read it at the beginning of a storytime, I had a little boy asking me to read it again throughout the rest of the storytime.
Written and illustrated by Don and Audrey Wood this book is a preschool favorite. Little Mouse just wants to enjoy his strawberry, but what will he do when he finds out the big, hungry bear likes strawberries too? A fun read-aloud for the classroom, this book is easy for young children to memorize and retell.
