https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174621.The_Hunters
James Salter - image from JewishReviewOfBooks.comCleve arrives in Korea eager to join the ranks of pilot aces.
The Hunters tells the tale of Cleve and other Korean War pilots, the small society in which they live, what they value, how they see themselves.
Salter (pen name, and later legal name of James Arnold Horowitz) knows something of the subject matter, having been a long-time (twelve years) officer and pilot in the US Air Force.
I guarantee that you will be riveted by the novel’s end.The author was a fighter pilot in the Korean War. Aerial combat and the reality of getting those five hits that make you an ace are what this book is about.
This is not a book about politics or why the Korean War was fought.
It is about the combat itself and the pilots who flew.The characters are realistically drawn.
I love how his voice personifies the respective officers’ rank and temperament.The book can be read with both your heart and your head.************The Hunters 4 starsA Sport and a Pastime 4 starsLight Years 4 starsAll That Is 3 starsBurning the Days: Recollection to read
(The Hunters is the novel Joan Didion would have written, had she flown fighter jets in the Korean War.) I’ve read that the exacting Salter thinks Light Years (1975) his first fully achieved work; but still, The Hunters more than brings the goods: You lived and died alone, especially in fighters.
You could call out to them, as he had heard someone call out one day going down, a pitiful, pleading “Oh, Jesus!” but they could touch you not.They flew with you in heraldic patterns...man I love that!
I did not want this novel to end.
The story is very tightly wound and stayed true all the way through.The Hunters is the story of Captain Cleve Connell and his fellow American pilots hunting North Korean/Chinese MIGS during the Korean War. They were each to fly a hundred missions.
The story then builds steam as Cleve who trained many of the fellow pilots in pilot school is finally deployed to the war zone.
Cleve has many missions left and the story gracefully heads to its climax.
The only better book I have ever read about pilots is The Right Stuff.
After the triumph of "All that is" in France, L'olivier, the french editor decided to translate the first Slater's novel.Just in time.Salter is really a geant. In Japan, he will be considered as a "lived historical monument"All his genius is in this first book.
Nothing wrong with that; just something one doesn't find too often in war Lit. Despite a few hints in that direction, Salter's vision is far removed from that of, say, Dino Buzzati's "The Tarter Steppe," a novel that exposes of the emptiness of military ambition with quiet devastation.
For these moments, no price could be too high.” This passage captures both the strengths and flaws of this book: Salter's evocative prose and his protagonist's sturdy but narrow virtues.Overall, I liked this book enough that at some point I might be tempted to read "Cassada," Salter's other novel about military pilots.
Death could be slighted or even ignored close by; but when the time came to meet it unexpectedly, no man could find it in himself not to cry silently or aloud for just one more reprieve to keep the world from ending.”For anyone who has read the later Salter in works such asA Sport and a Pastime (1967) or 2013's All There Is reading The Hunters provides a fascinating glimpse into the raw talent that is being revealed in this, his first novel.
The Hunters satisfies.At face value, Salter tells the story of jet fighter pilot who volunteers for a tour of duty during the Korean War. The ground story takes place at an Air Force base in South Korea where interceptor missions are flown routinely into the North to destroy North Korean fighter jets.The story tells of a unique time in our history with fighter jets, when combat was done at close range with machine guns while traveling at hundreds of miles per hour; when locating and targeting the enemy was a visual process.
Salter's descriptions of daily life in an operational squadron, the sense and feel of flying and aerial combat, are as authentic as anything I've read, and could only have been written by someone who had been there.I flew F-15s from the late 1970s to the mid-1990s; though my fighter was far more advanced than the F-86s Salter flew during the Korean War, I was pleased to learn how little the basic experience has changed.
it is a secret life, difficult to explain, unlike any other.When Salter's character Cleve Connell begins to obsess over kills ...
In my experience, this is dead on: it is what every fighter pilot lives for.
Much also has been said about this book as an accurate portrayal of flying and a great novel of warfare.What I would add to all that is how "The Hunters" is a fascinating account of the dynamics within a group of highly trained men who engage in a high-risk occupation.
For another Salter book that picks up some of these same themes and writes about them just as eloquently, read his novel "Solo Faces."

What was I thinking, that every book about war pilots was going to be another Catch-22?
Or maybe I was also thinking it might be a serious but profound meditation on the effects of war on those who fight in it, like Remarque's A Time to Love and a Time to Die. Nope.What we have in this book is a readable but insipid meditation on masculinity as viewed through the lens of the eternal pissing contest shared by fighter pilots trying to make ace by shooting down enough enemy aircraft.
I read this novel about fighter pilots during the Korean War in 1998 shortly after it was published in a revised edition.
It was James Salter's debut novel about USAF fighter pilots during the Korean War, first published in 1956.
He kept a detailed diary of his tour and the novel closely follows a chronology of events he experienced as an F-86 Sabre pilot with the 4th Fighter-Interceptor Wing, based at Kimpo Air Base, Korea.Salter was 31 when he published the novel and made his protagonist, Captain Cleve Connell, the same age.
It's about an entitled jet fighter pilot during the Korean War. I was sure to call him "entitled" because half of the book is about his insecurities and, well, this is the best way to put it -- incessant whining.
There isn't a single character that is remotely interesting.
There isn't a plot or subplot that is remotely interesting.
(Of course, I ended up quitting another book less than a week later.) Terrible.
I can't recommend this book to anyone or in any way.2/10.
(I figure anything below a 2/10 should be reserved for books I couldn't even bear to endure all the way through.)
This book proves to me that there is far more to a book than prose or profundity.
I will have to admit that the prose and flow was beautiful.
People have compared Salter to Hemingway.
I'm not going to go nearly that far.
As the review from Justin indicates, this story has a rather weak plot and is no more than a beautifully written pissing contest between a bunch of guys seeking to be ace pilots.
Perhaps that's the goal: to say that there is little heroism in war and only hell and death.
I'm not going to go that far.
Certainly there is hell and death, but this book makes little of its characters.
A very strong and solid novel.
At least the 1997 rewrite is - I have not read it as it was originally published in 1956.
It is a book similar in some ways to the classic of war fiction, The Red Badge of Courage in that it shows how within a theatre of conflict a man might wish for glory - his proof of worth - but the truth is that it is often just chance and circumstance that will determine who is the hero and who is the lesser man.
Such Hemingwayesque themes are now out of vogue, but such solid writing never will be.
Utterly brilliant, haunting, mature...
Was it courage or enthusiasm, or something even more vital, life itself, that was draining out of him so steadily, day after day, mission after mission, as if a man were born with, or acquired, only so much of it, never to be replenished?""The time passed slowly.
Then, more than at any other time, there was the constant feeling that he was being consumed, drained; and he did not know the extent of his reserves.
The fifteen, fourteen, thirteen missions ahead seemed many times more dangerous than those that had gone before, when he thought about them, which was often; and yet he simultaneously wished that he had back every one that had ever been wasted.
A novel about Korean War F-86 fighter pilots.
Salter (this was his first novel) was already a prose master and he perfectly captures the milieu of the fighter pilots.
The aerial battle descriptions are excellent.I don't understand some of the one star reviews, but everyone is entitled to their opinion.
Salter was a Korean War fighter pilot, and his descriptions of the competitiveness of the pilots rings true to anyone who has experienced a competitive environment.Note: if you have seen the movie (with Robert Mitchum and Robert Wagner) it is only loosely based upon the novel.
THE HUNTERS is one of the more insular novels I’ve ever read., insular in that it’s almost entirely about the self-contained world of fighter pilots during the Korean War of the early l950’s.
At that time, missiles had not been developed so planes had to get close enough to machine gun and disable the enemy aircraft.The novel centers around Cleve, an “old” (early 30’s) veteran fighter pilot who has an intense camaraderie with his fellow pilots.
“In this war, he was more certain than ever, he would attain himself, as men do who venture past all that is known.” It is a test of bravery, it is the ultimate life-and-death sport, the sensation that mountain-climbers feel as well.
It was a game about aerial glory for those who wanted it and it was about war-weariness for others.
In Salter's novel, Cleve Connell shoots down Casey Jones, a very good Russian ace, but Cleve gives the credit to his wing man, dead from a belly landing far from the runway.
With 21 kills, Casey was the Top Ace bar none of the Korean War.Casey becomes the mythical enemy in the novel while American Lieutenant Pell becomes what Cleve dislikes about aerial combat.
Pell is a young, hot shot pilot, who wants all the glory for himself.
I am also fascinated by John Boyd, who I regard as one of the greatest thinkers the U.S. Air Force ever produced, and many historians believe he collected many of his insights flying the Wingman position on these missions over the Yalu.
I like to think that this novel has provided me a better perspective on great men like Colonels Jabara and Boyd; it has certainly provided me some good reflection on leadership, loyalty, and life in the profession of arms.
Gradually, almost unknowingly, the days of painful learning and delight were over; you achieved maturity; and then suddenly you were old, with new faces and relationships that were difficult to recognize rising up quickly all around you, until you found yourself existing practically unwelcome in the midst of them, with all the men you had known and lived with gone and the war little more than unsharable memories of things that had taken place long ago.
For them, the war began the day of their arrival, and it would be a long time before they were tired of it and going home themselves, those that finished.
I ordered this praying to a god unknown that it not be as terse as Hemingway, and I was happy to find that Salter isn't afraid of a little polish.
I'd seen Salter's writing referred to as "spare and elegant" and that's spot-on.
What drives them to fight and kill is that they're the same archetypes chasing glory over and over again through the ages.I'm a little afraid to try out his other stories, since they might not have the same context of war-story urgency to propel his subdued style, but he is definitely a fine writer.
This debut novel about an Air Force fighter pilot in the Korean War was heavily based on Salter's own experiences.
Although confident of his abilities and eager to prove himself, it's hard to become an ace (a designation awarded after five confirmed "kills") when the enemy doesn't come out to engage.
As the story progresses, he grows more and more frustrated when his missions fail to result in enemy contact, and a brash younger pilot starts racking up the kills.
(One of the most interesting aspects of the book is how the bureaucratic aspects of confirmation of kills plays out, and the PR benefits of fudging the truth outweigh all others.
I started his latest novel, "All That Is" before this.
I read 'The Hunters' for a book session on 'war literature.
He famously said he wanted to prevent the readers' need to 'underline' sentences in his latest book (All That Is) -- he wanted it so perfect (a bold statement, but I guess you can get away with it when you are eighty nine), so I when I started The Hunters, I was ready with a highlighter (in a proverbial sense; I read it on Kindle).
That said, the book gives you a very narrow perspective of the war and the personalities that populate it.
Knowing a little bit about Salter's service as a fighter pilot in the Korean War, I assume (egotistically) many of Cleve Connell's experiences parallel Salter's own.
Perhaps not (view spoiler)[ Connell's encounter with Casey Jones, or the details of his rivalry/antagony with Pell, (hide spoiler)] but the overall ambience, the fevered anxiety and the dragging boredom, the frozen winter and scalding summer, give one a sense of what it was like to be there.I feel my review is not making much logistical sense.
It may well be my favorite war novel.
At least tied with Myrer's ONCE AN EAGLE.If you like books about war, historically accurate fiction, exciting action sequences, thinking and feeling things, read this.
Set in Korea at the height of the Korean war, the main character Cleve Connell, from the United Stat
“The Hunters,” by James Salter, is a beautifully written novel about American fighter pilots during the Korean War. The lead character, Captain Connell, comes to the war already a distinguished pilot, albeit one with no combat experience.
Much of the book is concerned with his experiences and mental struggles with integrating into a new squadron and trying to uphold his reputation as a top pilot.
While it does have a few exciting combat sequences, the book is primarily about developing the character of Connell – which it does brilliantly.
I recommend the book particularly to readers who enjoyed James Jones’ “From Here to Eternity,” which similarly examined military life and the emotional struggles of soldiers.
This book was a pleasant surprise. I read it after reading an obituary of the author, who died last year. The Hunters is a clearly written story about fighter pilots in Korea, their skills and insecurities, and the desire to become an "ace" who has shot down five enemy planes.The main character is an experienced pilot, considered one of the best, who is surpassed by a callow jet jockey until he gets his moment. It's a great read and a revealing look at the world of pilots at war.
