https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18172471-the-selection-stories
I read The Prince a while ago and gave it 3/5 stars, but I've finally read The Guard and did not love (1.5/5 stars). At least it has given me a bit of a refresher for the series, so I can continue on with The One and remember a little of what had happened before (I've totally forgotten most of it).
It's written in Prince Maxon's POV which was initially what drew me to want to read it in the first place.
Especially the one he has about America :) Maxon is so damn easy to love!
Illustration of Maxon & What I picture he'd look like.
Also, I enjoyed the couple scenes between Aspen and the old man who works in the stables.
For the record, I have always loved Aspen ever since the first book!
Illustration of Aspen & What I picture he'd look like.“I pushed my lips to hers, locking her to me with a hand knotted into her hair.
A quick breakdown of everything:  The Prince  -cute & adorable-MAXON <3-loved the two extra chapters of his POV  The Guard  -HATED IT.-Aspen stinks-So boring-Cheesy-Failed attempt at making people Team Aspen-Successful attempt at making more money by enticing people to buy this bookFirst Three Chapters of The One -PERFECTION.-HILARIOUS.-I AM SO EXCITED.  Extra Features  -Interesting Family Trees and storylines behind them-Eye roll-worthy Q&A -Hilarious playlists-Names of the Selection
A quick breakdown of everything:
   The Prince 
-cute & adorable-MAXON <3-loved the two extra chapters of his POV
   The Guard 
-HATED IT.-Aspen stinks-So boring-Cheesy-Failed attempt at making people Team Aspen-Successful attempt at making more money by enticing people to buy this bookFirst Three Chapters of The One -PERFECTION.-HILARIOUS.-I AM SO EXCITED.
   Extra Features 
-Interesting Family Trees and storylines behind them-Eye roll-worthy Q&A -Hilarious playlists-Names of the Selection girls-Most (if not all) of the features can be found on Kiera Cass's website.Finishing remarks? I AM SO EXCITED FOR THE ONE!!!!!
Okay, like, if you don't like Aspen Leger after reading the guard, don't talk to me.
Me ha gustado mucho, lo he disfrutado y he podido ver cuál era su punto de vista de muchas de las cosas que ocurrían en La Selección.Es un relato que tiene 50 páginas y en el que vemos qué pensó Maxon de América la primera vez que la vio.
Pero está muy bien también y habla del momento "tortura" que vive Marleen y cómo afecta eso a América.El personaje de Aspen siempre me pareció plano y aquí se repite de nuevo que sigo viéndolo falto de profundidad y personalidad.En resumen, Relatos de La Selección es una novelilla corta que se lee en un ratito y que merece la pena que leas si te gusta la saga.
Yay!! I've finished the book! Reading this made me realize:1. The king is even more of an asshole and I hate him more.2. Maxon is even hotter. 3. That Selection list was a nice touch!8/3/14Oh my gods. I FINALLY have the Selection Stories After waiting SIX FREAKING MONTHS on hold for it at my state library. WAIT. The Prince and The Guard short stories for the Selection Trilogy AND A SNEAK PEAK OF THE ONE??!!!! HOW COULD THIS GET ANY BETTER?!!!!YAY A COVER!!!!!!!
Ha sido muy interesante observar algunos de los hechos más importantes del primer libro desde su punto de vista, y conocer más de su pasado y del amor que guardaba antes de comenzar La Selección.
Ha sido justamente eso: interesante.En The Guard me ha sorprendido leer desde el punto de vista de Aspen, porque pensaba que Kiera Cass tenía más interés en desarrollar el romance de America-Maxon, pero ya he visto que no, que ninguno de los dos chicos está en desventaja.
(No para mí, claro, que creo que ya he elegido bando.) Pensaba encontrarme una historia más coñazo, pero ha tenido sus puntos interesantes.
I hated The Prince. I’m of the unpopular opinion that Maxon sucks. I enjoyed The Guard which only made me love Aspen more.I will forever ship Aspen and America. 💜🤭🤫
[4,5 ★] El Príncipe: 5 ★.El Guardián: 4 ★. Pueden encontrar reseñas individuales de cada historia si le dan click a los títulos de arriba :)PD: #TeamMaxon FOREVER.
I love Maxon's short story and his point of view.
I think, no I know, that it just made me love him even more.
I love the extended scene for his part.
Absolutely fawning over it.
As for Aspen's short story, I really tried.
I do not like him, not in Selection, not in Elite and I can care less for his point of view.
It actually aggravated me even more.
I couldn't stand it.
I did however like that he took his time to hang with Anna, Lucy and Mary.
I couldn't!
It was hilarious and adorable and Maxon, wow.
Immediately read the sneak peek at The One, followed by the extra info, followed by the extended version of The Prince and The Guard. This was well-worth the $10, guys. I'm gobbling this up like candy.Review to come.
1.5 StarsThe Prince (Maxon) - 2 Stars The Guard -(Aspen) - 1 Star
Loved the prince.Hated the guard.Dying for the rest of the one!Team MAXON <333
I liked The Prince but I didn't like The Guard because I honestly just hate Aspen so much.
I honestly don't like Aspen, but he takes like 70% of the book hahah.
Still, it was good to see everything from his perspective.The Prince:I love how since the beginning he kind of knew America was the one.
Because before, on the selection books (not the novelas) its kind of like Maxon is untouchable, like he can get through anything.
Like i get it you're in love, and all, but you are a 6!!!!
I mean not only that, Aspen puts his interests first, and wants America to himself.
America loved both Maxon AND Aspen, and he tried to degrade Maxon.
War interessant, mal Maxons und Aspens Sicht der Dinge zu erfahren. So kann man sich dann auch mehr in die Beweggründe hineinversetzen.
Ambas historias me han gustado y aunque no aportan mucho a la historia como tal, te ayuda a conocer lo que pasa por las cabezas de Maxon y Aspen.Me ha gustado el punto de vista de Maxon y sobretodo cuando ve a America por primera vez, sabes que es lo que se le pasa por la cabeza en ese momento y es tan mono...
Y en esta historia también se ve como Maxon es una marioneta del rey y como el rey maneja todo a su antojo (me cae muy mal ese señor).Y lo siento, sé que no tiene muchos seguidores mi Aspen, pero su historia también me ha gustado mucho.
Oh I just love Maxon so much.
Deseo que Maxon y America estén juntos.
También tenemos una idea de lo que piensa sobre algunas de las otras chicas.
También he confirmado que no me gusta mucho su padre.Pero en general me gustó esta novela sobre Maxon.
Especialmente cuando él no sabe qué hacer cuando las niñas lloran jajaja.THE GUARDSolo diré que Maxon es el indicado para America, no Aspen.
Aspen puede decir que la ama, pero si realmente la amara no la habría alejado solo porque estaba asustado.
Y Maxon está locamente enamorado de America, ella es su mundo.
Disfruté completamente la parte de Maxon, ustedes saben que me encanta, y poder estar en sus pensamientos fue algo muy bello de leer. La parte de Aspen no me gustó mucho, pues Aspen no me cuadra, pero si quitamos a Aspen de encima y solo nos queda Maxon... Entonces si, 5 estrellas. Lo siento, soy así de subjetiva, te amo Maxon, byeeee.
Can't wait until the release of The One so I'll take every bit of extra I can. I think The Guard was supposed to make you like Aspen more...and I don't hate him I just decided who I wanted America to be with a long time ago. Worth the read!!!
I love love loved having both The Prince and The Guard in paperback format.
I'm really liking the trend of novellas being bundled and printed!Anywho, The Prince was absolutely fantastic.
I was really craving a look into Maxon's mind and it delivered.
I don't dislike Aspen but I just don't like him and America together (although my guess is that it's just because I didn't see their feelings develop for each other, the books just started off with them already a couple).
With seeing Aspen be friends with America's maids though it really makes me hope he will start developing feelings for one of them!
The Prince - This was SO lovely!
I loved Maxon when reading 'The Selection', so reading from his perspective was really cute (just like him, aha!) Seriously, he's a precious little prince that America better be appreciating.
The Guard - Aspen was like my least favourite character, so I didn't quite know how I'd feel about it (and him) but this proved he had some redeemable qualities and I liked how it set up a closer relationship between him and the maids.
It really added sense to 'The One'.I think Keira Cass should just write the series from everyone's perspective.
Fijn boek! Leuke extra info en diepgang, hoewel het niet per se iets toevoegt: vooral een fijne leeservaring en leuk bonusmateriaal! Uitgebreide recensie: http://thebookreview.nl/recensies/dys...
Ik vond het leuk om de Selectie eens vanuit een ander perspectief te 'beleven'. Ik vond het verhaal van de prins erg leuk om te lezen, het geeft wat meer achtergrond. Ik vond het verhaal van de lijfwacht daarentegen vrij saai en niet heel interessant.
To be perfectly honest, I really don't think this book added anything to the Selection Series.
It mostly rehashed scenes we've already experienced (but from the male's point of view, whoop-de-do) so it felt a little tedious, basically reliving conversations we've already seen.
I was really hoping for backstory on these guys, or things going on with them that we couldn't see from America's point of view.
Telling America over and over again that Maxon's affection for him isn't real, feeling so sure she's going to choose him...
I was even MORE glad she doesn't, after reading this.It was sloppy, rushed, and a wholly unnecessary book.
I'm so happy that I read these 2 novellas because I've missed the world of The Selection. It may not be the best but Kiera knows how to write amazing male characters. If I'm honest though The Prince was by far the better novellas and should have been longer. The Guard was okay, but I've never been the biggest Aspen fan. Had his novellas focused on him and Lucy then I probably would've given it a higher rating.The Prince - 4.5 StarsThe Guard - 3.5 Stars
The short stories were good, but, the rest of it was just filler. Unless you're a diehard fan of the series, you can safely skip this one.
I think Im going to di- *happily faints into the depths of darkness and dramatically evaporates into twilight mist*
Well, since I'm crazy like that. Once I start a series I have to finish it!! What can I say.
