https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34323570-furyborn
The one question that kept spinning around in my mind as I read Furyborn is “why should I care?” I didn’t like the characters, the story almost put me to sleep, the stakes were never high enough to get my blood pumping, and the sex scenes made me laugh (not in a good way).
It all felt like yet another forgettable YA fantasy bogged down by a bland romance and mindless action scenes.
4.5*
ARC provided by Sourcebooks in exchange for an honest review.  “The queen stopped screaming just after midnight.”  Apparently, this is going to be a super polarizing book here on Goodreads, which is totally fine. Whatever your feelings are towards this book, they are totally valid. I did end up really enjoying it though. I thought it read like an adult high fantasy, I loved the constant juxtaposition between the two main protagonists, I thought it was high action back to back to back, and I love
I see a lot of people talking about how they feel the bi rep is bad because those characters think and talk about sex a lot, but I honestly think that’s such a dangerous way to think.
Also, I’m not going to write a third paragraph about how we shouldn’t shame sex work, you all should just know better in 2018.
I loved that, and please give me more books like this.
And one ownvoices reviewer can think the rep is bad in a book, where another could really appreciate and love it.
I think not, because this book will breathe life into you.It’s that good.
Rielle and Eliana are two fierce heroines with incredible power that puts them in danger as much as it helps them grow into the invincible young women they want to be.
I had about a thousand questions nested inside my mind by the time I finished it.But here are two pieces of information that will make it easier for you to understand this book: 1.
Rielle doesn’t want the king to discover she has magic, because she is afraid of what he and everyone else will do to her.
I love some bad arse woman in books.
I had about 20 gifs of bad arse women to go with this statement but we will just go with a couple or so....
I'm not going to get to heavy into this book as it comes out in May 2018.
Both women have wonderful characters in their stories.
"Since our war with the humans began, I have had only one dream.
There the shadows whispered secrets to her, in gratitude, and so she was never alone, and always safe in the shroud of night." -The Book of the Saints
This book made my day!
That is when two human Queen will rise, two Queens carrying the power of the Seven combined.
Rielle was a rather controversial one, a girl banished from the world, a woman who could not quench her insatiable hunger for attention, for admiration, for power and love.Eliana, the Dread of Ornline, was a bounty hunter who silenced her conscience and committed terrible crimes in order to protect her family.Always present, a shadow working as a puppeteer, was Corien, a villain that gave you goosebumps and was too alluring for your own good.But every story needs a knight in his shining armor, a ray of sunlight between the looming shadows, and Furyborn was no exception.
And due to this fact, you tried to guard your heart, to not get attached to characters you knew would perish or give in to the darkness, but it was a lost cause.
Anyway, we're thrust into an intense birth-and-escape scene where Queen Rielle delivers her daughter and shoves her into the arms of a young boy-Simon- telling him he must escape and save her life.
Thanks to the prologue, we know Rielle is the 'Blood Queen'.
Anyway, I was super invested in Rielle's story, especially knowing how it 'ends'.
(Which again, we know Corien is the one she tries to save her daughter from in the prologue.) Then we have Elianna, her daughter.
I think at the end, I was just expecting a big blow up with Corien vs Elianna, but nothing really happened -yet.
(So basically, everything I feel towards myself.) I’m just a whole bunch of negative emotions right now.A list of what disappointed me:🌹 the bi rep?🌷 the bi rep🌹 THE BI REP🌷 actually, the bi rep that didn’t feel like rep to me🌹 the characters🌷 the plot🌹 the pacing🌷 the predictability of certain plot twists🌹 my… sudden inability to care about anything🌷 so basically, a lot of thingsAnd here’s a list of what didn’t disappoint me:🌹 THE BEGINNING🌷 two (2) characters.
WHAT KIND OF A FUCKING MESS DID I JUST READ????I WANT MY TIME BACK.
I hate Aelin but at least I can still read about her  I can't say the same for this bitch b) Riellei literally just sighed before I typed this.
I mean Eliana would honestly fuck anything I'm done.5.The smutThe ground literally shook when she came.
literally half of this book is talking about how these two horny girls wanting to fuck.
I honestly want nothing more than to throw this book into a well....
Aside from the riveting and hyping reviews, there were also the polarizing and scathing reviews, but most of them consisted mainly of points that either stated the book was too long and boring, or trashing the world building and characters.
Only thing I docked off a star for would be the repetitive story telling of the two main characters-- the alternating chapters back and forth, although, each chapter was relatively short and managed to hold my attention long enough to want to know what would happen to each character.
Plus Corien, the angel/villian, was so well written that I was dying for Rielle's chapters just to get some more Corien action.And I totally loved that the angels are the bad guys in this one, because like, when are they ever?Skipping ahead to the next chapter, you'll meet Eliana, the Dread of Orline, which basically just means she's an assassin for the Empire and the best of the best (even though it seems just about everyone she fought was much better than her?) Whatevs, you catch my drift.
As Rielle and Eliana fight in a cosmic war that spans millennia, their stories intersect, and the shocking connections between them ultimately determine the fate of their world and of each other.First impressions while reading:-Something was throwing me off from the characters and the plot.
I was a bit confused - I thought Eliana was one of those “strong” female characters that have amazing physical strength to make up for lack of personality.-I made some assumptions about the plot and kind of discouraged myself to continue (NEVER do that guys).Any assumption, theory or idea I had related to the plot was very far off from what really happened.
Final impressions while reading:-Rielle and Eliana are my queens, I love them SO MUCH.
But in the end, the problem with Furyborn is the same problem I have every time my university’s exam week rolls around—it tries to excel in an impossible number of things and falls disappointingly short in almost every single one.I’m just kidding, I’m actually way better at my exams than Furyborn is at establishing compelling characters and plotlines.The chapters alternate between two opposing narratives: Rielle is a talented young noblewoman in Celdaria who’s forced to hide her mysterious powers, and Eliana is an infamous, vicious assassin for hire in Orline.
It's a story about two young women deciding how to use their power--for good or for evil, or maybe to fight a war, or maybe not at all.
They do great things and they do awful things--sometimes to save the people they love.
It's about god and rage and war and grief, and grappling with the dark side of humanity, and how to keep fighting for what's right even when it would be much easier not to.
It's about digging down into that deep burning place in your heart and telling yourself to stand up.
It's about helping others who can't stand on their own, and broken people coming together to make a whole.Also, there's kissing.
The prologue is absolutely beautiful and had me thinking that maybe I would end up shocking myself and loving this book, but as soon as chapter one began, it felt like a totally different author had taken over.
By the end of the first chapter, I felt like a dark, gloomy cloud had settled over my entire reading experience.The story shifts between two perspectives: Rielle, from the past, and Eliana, from the present - two queens, both with incredible powers foretold by prophecies.
The story kind of felt like some roller coaster blend of epic elements at times, so I was pretty entertained.
The diversity was great to see, too!Rielle is kind of a special snowflake because "no human who has ever lived has been able to control more than one element.
Her story is mostly about how she has to go through seven trials to test her powers and prove she can control her abilities so she can serve the crown prince she loves.
And then the rest of the story is pretty well explained in the book description.
Wow there was a heck of a lot going on in this book and I can safely say...I'm exhausted.
Like seriously.
I finished and took a nap.
But I also might be turning a hundred soon, WHO KNOWS.
I wasn't as enamoured with this one as I hoped so I'll come back for a full review later.
it was just reading two books!• it was long• it.
long"Here, my lady.
"Perhaps three cakes would do the trick.""Three cakes are, generally speaking, much more effective than one, my lady."
3 StarsCon ● flict ● edVerb: Past tenseKaylin’s feelings about this bookI could write a review recapping this evil-angel infused fantasy world, or promoting the ‘two-strong-willed-female-protagonists-hundreds-of-years-apart-with-somehow-linked-stories’ but I don’t think there’s anything new I can add to that conversation?
But it also, spoils almost every single plot twist the book works so hard to create.I don’t think this kills the tension….
But, as a bisexual woman, when looking for stories that make me feel seen and understood… this isn’t one I’d reach for.
It’s also the first book I’ve seen where female friends actually have a conversation about birth control??
I have so many mixed thoughts about this, but overall it was a pretty big disappointment :(
I’d say if your a fan of Sarah J. Maas books I think you would love this!I do think maybe there was to much action and not enough dialogue and world building but overall was a very enjoyable read!I definitely will be continuing on with this series and can’t wait for the next book!
I just found out that this is bi fantasy and honestly the fact that I wasn’t notified? homophobia ✨Arc received from the publisher via Netgalley for an honest review. (Jan 31)
I finished this first thing this morning and was gonna write a review for it sometime throughout the day, but now I just ate two huge wraps and fell into my bed so I guess it ain't happenin'.
TWO QUEENS, one blessed and one wicked. TWO POVS, one of the past and one of the present. TWO KINGDOMS, one fallen and the other a pit of hell. TWO SCRUMPTIOUS BOYS, one is a prince and one is a wolf. Are you in?  We live in a world where good kings die and those foolish enough to hope for something better are killed where they stand.  Mark my words, y'all: this series will go down in book history as one of the most epic YA fantasy series of all time.LE PLOT:Alrighty, let's start you off with th
Mark my words, y'all: this series will go down in book history as one of the most epic YA fantasy series of all time.LE PLOT:Alrighty, let's start you off with the official synopsis.
If she fails, she will be executed...unless the trials kill her first.A thousand years later, the legend of Queen Rielle is a mere fairy tale to bounty hunter Eliana Ferracora.
LE MCs:Rielle Dardenne: A prophesied queen whose heart aches for her forbidden lover.Crown Prince: His happiness comes at a high price.
THIS BOOK SOUNDS AMAZING - I HAVE CHILLS.WANT.NEEDDD.
You know those books that make you reconsider all your recent 4 and 5 star ratings? THIS IS THAT BOOK. I *thought* I was loving some other fantasy series I've been reading recently, but this filled a hole I didn't even know I had in my life.There are a couple of things I wish had been fleshed out more but as this is just the first in a series I am sure more of that is coming in future installments.
I need this BADASS book in my life.!.!.!Please be good! I’ve been hearing a lot of mixed feelings about this one.🤩🤑
Furyborn: A Recipe (this cake is 3.75 stars and is also posted here on starburnt reads with pretty pictures):1. Start with a base full of stabbing, knife wounds, and bloody murder.2. Mix thoroughly.3. Add more stabbing and brutality.4. Add just a pinch of death, but don’t overdo it. Actually, nevermind. Overdo it.5. Magic. This depends on the chapter you're in, and on what kind of cake you want to make. Either way, add lots of magic or none at all.6. Sprinkle in the weirdest love triangle I’ve
On one hand, she’s been in love with her best friend for years (siiiigh where have I seen this before??) — Audric, the golden prince, who a lot of people think is a cinnamon roll but who I think is just kind of bland and more of a cardboard cut-out than an actual character.— ▸ Audric is engaged to Lu, Rielle’s other best friend, and ends up cheating on her to be with Rielle, which is always a huuuuge NOPE for me in books and real life.
Mini review: I received this E-Arc via Netgalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
My ‘Wish’ was granted.
A friend of mine had given it a positive review and it sounded so good!
Unfortunately it wasn’t good.
I felt that the point of view shifts weren’t really done that well.
It came to a point where I was just skimming to see what would happen next.
Eliana read just like Aelin from Throne of Glass.
I only liked Remy, Eliana’s mother, and Harkan.
While Rielle was more bearable to read about, she also became boring.
The world building in here is a bit lacking making the book confusing to follow at first with no clear explanation giving but just slowly following these two building their characters and those around them.Rielle is one that has been kept away hiding the powers that she has but when it becomes known she possesses them she has to prove herself through difficult trials.
She has her own abilities which she tries to keep hidden and ends up being tangled in a mission with a rebel named Simon and a princess named Navi from the last free country, Astavar.A lot of the chapters end on a sort of cliffhanger (which is a pretty common writing method), but once you get into the rhythm of the chapters switching, the story flows nicely.
I loved the friendships between Rielle and Ludivine and Audric, and then Eliana and Navi.
Zahra for the win!There is just so many things to like about this book.
