https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76788.Becoming_a_Writer
Holy crap, Dorothea Brande, why the hell is your book almost completely forgotten?I give "Becoming a Writer" five stars not because it's the most amazing book ever written -- it is, after all, an instructional book, and as such has its limits -- but because it feels almost like it was written yesterday, not 75 years ago, when it actually was published.
And she doesn't mince words: Becoming a writer, she makes clear, requires strict discipline and continuous practice.As I haven't tried her techniques yet, I can't speak to how successful they will be for me, but they certainly appear sound: forcing yourself to write on a strict schedule, in various frames of mind, and without giving yourself any excuses.
This book, however, says that reading can be bad for the writing craft.
For Dorothea Brande says that it is, at this time, in the twilight zone between sleep and full waking state, "when the unconscious is in the ascendant" that one can reap the full benefit of the "richness of the unconscious." She says that the root of genius is the unconscious.But I have never written anything in the wee hours of the morning.
To learn from the great masters one must read their works once for pleasure and then reread them again, this time with a critical eye so we can see more clearly their beautiful creative patterns.
Four stars for content, and the fifth star for renewal of hope.
Here, however, is a writer who exposes this lie and provides practical exercises aimed at discovering and freeing your own inner genius.A word of warning: if you wish to continue your life believing yourself a writer without putting that possibility to the test, do NOT read this book.
If, having attempted her initial exercises, you discover you’re incapable of following her advice, she suggests you take up some other career and leave writing to those who take it as the serious lifestyle it must be if anything worthwhile is to come from your scribbling.This isn’t simply a book.
Dorothea Brande breaks down the creative process into two parts: the unconscious or imagination, and the conscious or inner editor.
When you see the stereotypical “temperamental artist,” she explains, what you are seeing is an artist whose conscious and unconscious are at war with each other.
When artists get themselves in balance, both their writing and their other responsibilities fall into place.When I first read this book, my writing life was way out of balance, so this was a life-changer.
And now that I’ve written this review, I think it’s time to re-read Becoming A Writer.

Recommended by Bradbury in Zen in the Art of Writing, this has some interesting ideas on respecting and working with your creative unconscious.
كان آخر ما قرأته في مجال الكتابة اﻹبداعية منذ ما يقرب من سبعة أشهر كان (ورشة سيناريو جابرييل جارسيا 
الكتاب في الحقيقة موجه لفئة الكتاب الناشئين لأن كل ما يتضمنه هذا الكتاب يعرفه الكتاب المتمرسين في عملية الكتابة. الكتاب يضع قدمك على أول طريق الكتابة، يوضح لك نقاط لن تكتسبها إلا بالخبرة وكثرة الكتابة والإطلاع. لكن في النهاية يمكنك وضعها نصب عينيك وأنت تقدم على عملية الكتابة.الكتاب يتضمن تمارين تفيد الكاتب الناشئ. أعجبني فصل استراحة الكاتب. في نهاية الكتاب ستجد العديد من المراجع التي تفيد الكتاب بشكلٍ عام في الكتابة.
This book is pioneer work; in 1934 George Harrison had not yet gone to India to set off the boom in meditation, and we were not yet informed on the validity of "right-brained" thinking.Brande describes convincingly the interplay between the unconscious and the conscious mind, for the latter does have a role to play in he process or writing.
- out of the slough of despond and into the actual work of a writer.I read this book in 1981, at a time when I never dared dream of writing a complete novel.
Long before Julia Cameron gave budding artists a creative kickstart with "The Artist's Way", Dorothea Brande was coaxing aspiring writers out of self-imposed dry spells, first with her creative writing classes and finally with "Becoming A Writer", which is a Cliff Notes version of the practical lessons she presented to one roomful of disillusioned students after another during the 1920s.
Long before introspection became the norm in our society, Ms. Brande addressed the fears and frustrations that prevent writers from maximizing their true potential.
She proposed a series of exercises to get one's creative mechanisms in gear and make the act of writing so automatic that self-censorship loses its hold.
Brande writes about how to confront your fears and doubts, how to get your mind in a place to be productive, and how to balance your inner editor against your inner creative.
It’s a great tool for beginners or for those who have been feeling blocked or unproductive lately.Brande begins by discussing the fears, the worries, and the self-imposed limits most beginners put on themselves.
I recognized a lot of myself in this early section, so it kept me reading.Brande then moves onto the dual nature of the artist’s brain: the conscious and the unconscious.
تقترح عليك دوروثي براندي في هذا الكتاب عدة خطوات و تمارين والتي من شأنها ان تضعك على الطريق نحو الكتابة الأبداعية ، شعرتُ بالملل في البداية و لكن التمارين المدرجة فيه جددت طاقتي و حفزتني على المضي قدماً ، الترجمة جيدة و أختيار فريق ضاد/ غزه كان موفقاً .
However convenient the machine may be,there is no doubt about the muscular strain involvedin typewriting; let any author tell you ofrising stiff and aching from a long session.Moreover, there is the distraction set up by the littleclatter of keys, and there is the strain of seeingthe shafts continually dancing against the platen.But it is possible to make either typing or writingby hand second nature, so that muscular strainwill not slow you down or keep you from writing.So if you are to have the full benefit of therichness of the unconscious you must learn towrite easily and smoothly when the unconsciousis in the ascendant.The best way to do this is to rise half an hour, ora full hour, earlier than you customarily rise.
جيد لكل كاتب ناشئ.
نشر لي حتى الان ستة روايات و عشرات القصص القصيرة والمقالات، سألت نفسي ما عسي استفيد من هذا الكتاب ال
It has very good advice for beginners at writing, and for those of us who have been going at it alone for more than 10 years, it's amazing to read, from an experienced woman, all the advice she gives to novices, and realising you've been doing exactly that on your own.
Sure, with this book I should've gotten to where I am sooner, but thinking back on my journey, I kinda like exploring it on my own terms.
And although I still have much more to cover, I have never been more motivated about my desire to write.
I know I say this every time, but this is one of the best books I've read about writing. Very interesting ideas about how to work in greater harmony with your unconscious, and harness its power deliberately. We think of the 1930s as being a long time ago (as they are) but in some respects people then had things better figured out.
In the opening lecture, within the first few pages of his book, within a sentence or two of his authors’ symposium, he will be told rather shortly that genius cannot be taught; and there goes his hope glimmering."The aspiring writer may not believe that he/she is looking to acquire the secret of a writer’s genius, but that’s really what it is, even if only unconsciously held – an idea that there is some kind of magic about writing.
She says that writers should think of themselves as split personalities: a hard-working, sensible artisan, and a free-spirited, spontaneous, sensitive artist.
biblia scriitoricească. cu siguranță
An accomplished stylist in her own right, Brande hits a rhetorical sweet-spot between sympathetic nurturer and uncompromising drill sergeant. This is a book on overcoming the (many) psychological hurdles to developing a writing life. It's accessible, practical, and inspiring, and now has a permanent place near my writing desk.
لم أشعر بالانتماء إلى هذه الأفكار.
أنا على يقين بأن لها صدى كبير عند كثير من القراء و الكتاب وإنه من الظلم بمكان و ليس من حقي الإساءة إليها.
الكتابة فن ابداعي، و هذه أقل الحقائق عرضة للغبار بالإضافة إلى أن الكاتب الناجح ساحر بالضرورة، وأرى، وقد تتغير أفكاري قريبا، أن هذه الحقائق ليست بحاجة إلى تفسير.
ببساطة، كل منا(كاتب)في مرحلة ما وذلك حالما تتهيأ له روحه وأفكاره بصورة خاصة، لكن استحقاق المسمى يحتاج إلى ما يحتاج من صقل وإرشاد ونقاد وجمهور قراء.
ومع أن(الكتابة)تكمن داخل كل منا، وكلنا أصحاب قصص وأفكار تستحق النور إلا أنها لا تُعطى إلا لذلك الذي يبحث عنها تحديدا في داخله..
I've loved this book for the last 15 years. First published in the 1930s — it's so outdated that she talks about how you need a portable typewriter — this is hands-down the best book I've ever read on how to write and the only one you'll ever need. Writers write, right?
الكتاب جيد .. يحتوي على بعض المهارات و الطرق الاساسية للكتابة .. لأي كاتب في بدايات مراحل الكتابة ..بوجد أيضًا بعص التمارين التطبيقية كالمراجعة النقدية للنص ..شعرت قليلًا بعدم تجانس محتويات الفصول في الكتاب ..
كوني مدير فريق ضاد/ غزة، أحب أن أشير إلى أن هذا الكتاب قام بترجمته أحد أعضاء فريق ضاد، عبدالرحمن أبو عابد، وهو كتاب لا أظنّ أن أي هاوٍ للكتابة يستطيع الكتابة كتابة جيّدة ما لم يقرأه. شكرًا للمترجم الذي اختار أن يترجم الكتاب لأهميته.
09-10-2016
يتميز الكتاب عن غيره من الكتب المشابهة في كونه واقعي وبعيد عن النصائح النظرية، بالإضافة إلى التمارين العملية التي تطرحها الكاتبة كحل لعدة مشكلات تواجه المبتدئين في الكتابة فعلياً.يمكنني اعتبار هذا الكتاب هو الكتاب المناسب للبدء بكتابة المسودات الأولية، قبل أن يبدأ رحلة الغوص بالتفاصيل الأدبية الأخرى.
ممتع وشيّق هو حقاً كما قالوا عنه سيترك فيك أثرا ك أثر الفراشة لا يزول ممتنة لهذ ه الكاتبة على هذه التجربة التي تعلمت منها الكثير
Oh my god, you guys. How many dozens of writing books have I read, and I should have read this one first. It would have saved me a lot of trouble, both in reading those other books and writing my own. She talks about getting your conscious and unconscious minds to work together, how to get your butt in the chair, how to make writing easy, and how to let your genius emerge. Every writer, and really every artist, should read this and take notes. Then implement.
This is a book that aspiring writers must read to achieve the magic that gets those words on paper.All my life I thought I could do both- live a normal life and write.
I have place set aside for writing, there are no books there and no windows.
In addition, there are two other rooms: a library and a study.
The library is no more than a store room for several thousand books.
She says- and she is right- that you must have dedicated time and place for writing.
