https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2426597.The_Young_Clementina
she had pulled me right into her story, and my heart rose and fell with hers, I saw the world as she did.When her beloved parents died Charlotte decided that she had to move away, that she couldn’t bear to watch her sister living the life that she had thought would be hers, with the man she still loved.
I’d love to explain exactly what happened, but I mustn’t because you need to experience it first hand, as I did alongside Charlotte.When the dust had settled, and when she finished telling her story to her imaginary friend, Charlotte accepted that she that she had to go home, that she had to help raise Clementina.It wasn’t easy.
The twelve best years of my womanhood have been given to Wentworth's."Like most (if not all) of us, Char has a protaganist, and in this book, it just happens to be someone from her own family; her sister, Kitty.
Charlotte seems to be cut from a different cloth; she is unassuming, modest, and gracious (even when wronged).The book is written in a form similar to a diary, and the reader's sympathies are immediately caught up as Char falls in love with their neighbor's son, Garth Wisdon.
but then all of a sudden, Char is pushed aside and Garth marries Kitty!"People always hate those they have wronged." Did Kitty hate me?
However there are several things that really bugged me and makes me hesitate to read anymore of her books.Spoilers ahead:1.
The hero is terrible to her and she just accepts it.
And the most ick thing of all in this book.
The daughter starts off at about 11-12 years old when we meet her.
During one of the rides/hunts the heroine meets and old university friend of the hero.
He was at the party where the hero and heroine fall in love.
The friend of the family is upset because he is in love with the daughter and doesn't want to be separated from her.
A novel about a woman who is heartbroken when the love of her life unexpectedly marries her sister; years later, when they divorce, she’s asked to look after their daughter.
1935.Full review (and other recommendations!) at Another look bookSo far, my favorite DES is still The Blue Sapphire, but this is a close second.
I loved the use of the 1st person narration and really connected with the main character.
I think the quality of writing is a level higher than the other DES books I've read--and those are already very well-written!
It's a captivating, beautiful story.
Absolutely, beyond any doubt recommended.
I own nearly all of the novels by D.E. Stevenson. I read them over and over, whenever I'm in the mood for an old-fashioned but suspenseful story set in the British Isles. The Young Clementina is one of my favorites. Every single time, I get a lump in my throat when I read the last page, and she writes "but it wasn't too late for that, either."
Then, 12 years later, Char gets drawn into the drama of her sister's messy divorce before she is invited to live at Hinkleton to care for Clementina while Garth galavants off to Africa to look for Bracelet Men. Can there ever be a happy ever after for all these dire, cranky people??Only because going into my complaints is hella hard without CONTEXT, here lie some SPOILERS: (view spoiler)[So Char goes to Hinkleton and befriends Clementina; Kitty dies of pneumonia; Garth disappears and is presumed dead; Char starts to edit Garth's last diaries for publication and is asked to write an introductory biography of him as a foreword.
(view spoiler)[For example, Char ends up confessing her love to Garth but only after she discovers that he's returned her feelings the entire time: not because she's taking the initiative but rather because she (mostly) knows the outcome already.
When I'd finished I could only clasp the book to my heart and marvel that this story found me at this particular time in my life.
The story's main character is Charlotte Dean, whose disappointments in love and life pile up until she finds herself in a sort of self-imposed exile.
Making the best of the situation she manages to find a semblance of contentment in her job at a small private library even though it means she must shut down much in her heart to bear the isolation of the kind of life left to her.
But the content certainly was a surprise!I am not quite sure who the publishers are trying to market this book to.
The cover leads one to believe that this will be a light, frothy romp, (in the vein of her Miss Buncle series) and it absolutely is NOT.
And there will be many disappointed readers when they don’t get the fun, perky book they are expecting.
I just needed to make my point contrasting book cover with content.)This author obviously has a wide range, as she writes both comedy and drama with ease.
(well, except Vittoria Cottage--that one wasn't amazing.) One thing I've noticed, unlike many authors, is that all of her books have a different feel to them.
If I didn't know I was reading a book written by the same woman who wrote Miss Buncle's Book, I wouldn't know it!
what?!) Anyway...This is a beautiful story of a woman who's life doesn't end up the way she planned.
I love how Stevenson can write characters in a way that you feel like you really know them; something that is lacking in a lot of contemporary fiction, in my opinion.
For the record, my favorite by Stevenson is Miss Buncle's Book.
I really enjoy D.E. Stevenson's books and writing style.
I love the time period and locations that she writes about, and I find her characters to be believable and endearing.
Some favorites quotes from this particular book:"Prayer did not come easily to me for I always feel that prayer is a silent thing, an opening of the heart.
To ask for earthly benefits, to reel out a list of requirements and expect them to be supplied is not prayer.
The spirit of my earthly father and the Spirit of my Heavenly Father blessed me in my new life.
I adore this author. This is a bittersweet novel about love, lies and misunderstandings.Clementina is not really the main character, but she is vital to the story.
Comme Sourcebooks est justement en train de rééditer son oeuvre avec un choix de couvertures sublimes, je n'ai pas hésité beaucoup plus longtemps à me laisser convaincre (par moi-même d'ailleurs).Dites-nous en un peu plus sur son histoire...
Mais ne croyez pas qu'il en a toujours été ainsi, cette vie d'ermite est un choix et petit à petit, nous allons découvrir pourquoi et quels sont les évènements qui aujourd'hui la pousse à changer de nouveau cela."Mais que s'est-il exactement passé entre vous?

A grown woman is writing her life story to what is essentially an imaginary friend.
Despite that it did not take me long to get pulled into the story and in the end could not stop reading until I finished it.
I still found the parts where "Clare" was being addressed a bit jarring and odd but was for the most part able to look past it and keep reading.A bit different than the other D.E. Stevenson books I've read but still immensely enjoyable.
As is usual when I finish a novel by D.E. Stevenson I can not wipe the happy contented smile of my face.
This women's fiction connected me with a strong heroine reflecting women in another era. The author makes her very real. If I could talk to both author and heroine, I'd discuss the title with them--really interesting choice. First published in 1938, then in the 70's, and again now, I'd say this story has staying power.
That was unexpectedly wonderful. I didn't know at all what the plot was about and the misleading title combined with the fact that this read so much like two stories with their own separate endings just made this a real page-turner. Great detail, characterization and I loved the mystery-like plot. Very underrated novel.
Quite different from the Miss Buncle related books. But a book that grew on me. I think I would have liked it better if Char, the narrator, had not occasionally behaved like a doormat.Still a very pleasant read.
Maybe 3.5 stars.
https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/1...
I am ever so happy that D.E. Stevenson's book are being reissued in snappy attractive paperbacks. Her writing still holds true fifty plus years from original publication. The Young Clementina originally published in 1938 weaves in the change England saw in its people from WWI without dwelling on particulars. The heart of this plot is the damage of lies and secrets. Her hallmark style of wonderfully portraying her characters richly and fully is evident. Marked with intrigue, as well as romance without being unduly dramatic, it is an immensely satisfying read.
For many decades, too many interesting women's novels were overlooked and taken out of print, so the resurgence of these books is a treasure to appreciate.The central character of this novel, Englishwoman Charlotte Dean, is a woman who is able to cope with life.
Stevenson gives the reader a chance to see a woman of the 1930's, who, even with her quiet, unexciting life, shines above the rest of the characters here.
I certainly recommend D.E. Stevenson's The Young Clementina to readers of early to mid-century rediscovered novels.
Charlotte and Garth have been inseparable friends all their young lives.
After the war Garth comes back a changed man and marries Charlotte's selfish, but charming, sister to Charlotte's surprised dismay.
Garth (a writer) asks Charlotte to take care of his daughter Clementina while he is researching Africa for a travel book.
She wrestles with herself and finally decides to sacrifice her safe, but mundane life, for her niece's benefit.She copes with an embittered, non-responsive niece and Garth's untimely death to discover that life can be worthwhile despite hardships and broken dreams, especially when she can make a difference in her niece's life.
Delightful, charming and old-fashioned are the words that spring to mind to describe this book.
How absolutely scandalous!), and I found myself thinking of old plays and black and white films.
Perhaps not quite as much as the Miss Buncle series though.I really appreciated the minor country characters (Lady Vera, Nanny, Clem etc), probably even more than the main protagonists, and the descriptions of foxhunting and the point-to-point were excellent.
OK, I admit to having a peek at the last pages because I just couldn't believe one of the characters was dead!
The Young Clementina is a bit more serious than her other books - I'd say there is more depth of character and more of an evolution of a storyline - but in classic Stevenson style our main female character is smart, witty, independent and kind.
This story put a smile on my face - we join Charlotte on her adventure from young girl in love; to broken hearted young adult; to a lonely spinster; to guardian of young Cementina who helps breathe life back into Charlotte's life.
Part love-story and part story of self-discovery - this book is simply a gem of a read.
I love the way it begins, with Charlotte determined to write down her story so that she can decide which path to take.
I love that the only way she can contemplate writing her story is by imagining she's writing it for a chance-met woman who seemed like such a kindred spirit, that Charlotte has imagined her as her best friend for years.
I love that even though Charlotte's story is heartbreaking in many ways, I never felt sorry for her, or depressed by the book.
I love how Stevenson brings her characters to life and how she made me care about them and even sympathize with the worst of them.
This is another D. E. Stevenson that I reread much less often than others. But I enjoyed it more this time. It doesn't have the sprinkling of humor throughout, which I most enjoy in her books. But I still found it to be better than I had remembered. It kept me reading and even though I know full well everything that is going to happen, I kept wanting to get back to it and keep reading, and, really, what more can you ask of a book?
I loved it!This is the story of love, loss and love again.D E Stevenson captures post WW1 with a light comic touch.From a grandfather clock called Jeremiah.To shopping for a dog's water bowl.When the assistant asks if they would like one with dog written on it she says my dog can't read and my Husband never drinks water.It made me laugh out loud.I'm so glad that these books are being re-printed being written in 1938.I'll be looking out for more of her wonderful books.
Re-read in one day. Love this book! As always, when I finish a D.E. Stevenson book, I think of a review I once read, "Finding a re-issued D.E. Stevenson novel is like finding a Tiffany lamp at Woolworths." After all the YA reading I have to do for work, it is so refreshing to read a simple, sweet story about good people.
Had its good points but also had its low points. D.E Stevenson can do lovely, straightforward romances sometimes, but she can also get all modern and divorce-y, and in this story there was a fair amount of stupidity going around. Will probably vet my future Stevenson choices a little more carefully, have run into a couple of duds lately.
I spent most the night reading this book. While I could see where the plot was going prior to it moving there, it was still a very enjoyable read. Couldn't wait to see what would happen - even though it was very predictable.
