https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302618.The_Truce_at_Bakura
I suppose you're going to ask my intentions toward your sister."Luke smiled at Han.
Namely, the physical damage to Luke from the Emperor's lightning attacks and the anger/shock Leia feels while coping with the fact that Vader was her father.
Also, there was brilliant and beautiful dialogue between everyone throughout the book, as well as a few really nice scenes between Han and Leia.
Despite my everlasting love for the forbidden romance between Anakin and Padme, the relationship between Han and Leia will always be my favorite Star Wars couple.
:) An all around wonderful book!
Oooh, I really liked this one!
It's set right after Return of the Jedi and I really like how it explores Leia post-movie.
You get to see her dealing with Vader being her father (which, really, the movie should've given us) and she and Han start figuring things out.I like Luke in this book, too, but his storyline also made me laugh because it felt like an old school sci fi episode.
He meets a woman AND THEY HAVE THIS HUGE CONNECTION, LIKE SO SPECIAL .
but nothing really happens, and they never see each other again!I rec this one.
Every now and then, there are a few uses of metaphor and simile which made me wince (the planet hung in space like a cloud-veiled turquoise?), but on the whole it's much, much better than the average Star Wars novel.The one place where Tyers really helps elevate the novel above the ordinary is the fact that she actually has her characters think, behave and feel in ways that are psychologically believable.
And can they defeat the Ssi-Ruuk anyway?NOTE: I read the book many years ago and only just recently listened to the highly abridged audiobook.I Liked:Kathy Tyers has created her own little niche in the Star Wars world.
And how did her name avoid being on the list that was mentioned in Star Wars 501st: An Imperial Commando Novel?I've already brought up two minor side-plots I've enjoyed: Leia's paternal struggle and Gaeriel/Luke's Jedi struggle.
Entechment is a cool idea...but it doesn't FEEL like Star Wars.Also, Yeorg Captison gives as reasons for wanting to leave the Empire as "high taxes and sending children to foreign wars".
I found the characterization of Leia and Han particularly good, and I enjoyed the struggles Luke faced dealing with his new identity as a Jedi master.
She did a good job with the interplay between Han and Leia, considering that at the end of Return of the Jedi, their attraction is obvious, but they haven't spent time together or learned how to resolve disagreements.
Well done.No, there's no sex, only thwarted attempts at make-outs.The only real thing I didn't like was Luke's attraction to Gaeriel ...
Gaeriel has that character undergo emotional development, and she becomes a true, three-dimensional person in the novel, which is quite a feat for an EU novel (Kevin J.
No es ni de lejos mi novela de Star Wars favorita, pero me ha gustado más que la primera vez que la leí, es entretenida, sin más.
This is, hands down, the worst book in the EU. Forget about killing off Chewie or totally improbably enemies (or weapons) this has got to be the stupidest book in the history of SW. Except maybe the one that went between IV and V. That one was just weird.
A bit creepy/gruesome in places, but overall an exciting story that takes place immediately after  Return of the Jedi .
By being able to see Luke and Leia's thoughts, we're able to understand the nature of the Force and what needs to be done mentally in order to grow stronger.
He is a servant of one of the Ssi-ruk and to see his actions and thoughts is what really makes this story exciting to read.
In the movie, it's quite easy to glaze over all those fancy made-up words and understand the gist of what they're doing/saying through their actions.
I'm sure you don't need to read it 100 times in order to understand it.
Well the Alliance decides to go and help Bakura and and they align against the greater enemy, the Ssi-Ruuk, for the time being.
After the Ssi-Ruuk are forced to retreat Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, Chewbacca, C-3P0, and R2-D2 head planet word to meet with the Bakuran Senate.
As a way to prove to Gaeriel that Jedi are not bad, Luke shows Eppie how to heal herself with the force.
They both realize that they can never be together because Gaeriel is bound to Bakura and her people, and Luke is bound to the Alliance, and his friends, and the people of the galaxy who need saving.
It's been years since I was a voracious reader of the Star Wars novels and it's been even longer since I read 'Truce at Bakura.' Honestly, it's pure fun, it's the Star Wars characters before they got bogged down in the huge sprawling expanded universe that the novels eventually became.
I'm surprised this book has such a low average rating.
For a Star Wars book, it was actually pretty good.
Beyond that, it's Sci Fi elements were spectacular, which completely enhanced the story for me.Tyers brought in a new alien race (the Si Ruu) that capture humans and rips their living energies to droids.
I think it's a cool idea.The story literally picks up where Return of the Jedi ends, with Luke still healing from his shocking experience with Emperor Palpatien (sorry for the pun).If you're a Star Wars fan, pick this book up.
I acquired this book from Audible; I only realized after that it was, unfortunately, the abridged version. I avoid abridged books if I can — they make me grumbly.Even so, I enjoyed the book. My favorite part, though, was that it was acted out instead of merely read, but again, that's an audiobook feature. The story was fun; I hadn't ever thought to read Star Wars fiction before, though I do enjoy watching the movies.
Well, I sure picked a stinker for the first, of many, Stars Wars books I've decided to plow through for "Project: Reread Books from my Childhood." This one was pretty terrible.Plot, plot, cheesy line from original trilogy, plot, plot, unsatisfied.
weak compared to Zahn
A fantastic addition to the original trilogy for those who must know what happened next.
Kind of bonkers, but in a really fun way.
"The Truce At Bakura" follows the story of Han Solo, Luke and Leia Skywalker and the rest of the rebels shortly following the deaths of Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader.
At the end of the novel, Luke finally attempts to make his move with Captison, but he has to leave along with Han and the rest of his task force to continue the ongoing fight against the Empire.
This book was way different than other star wars books. I loved this book. I like how Princess Lei went to Bakura, to help, and to solve her mission. I like that Luke headed to Bakura without even thinking about the danger he was heading into. 5 star rating.
I've realized that, since they were considered "canon" at the time, much of my understanding of Star Wars actually stems from the novels that extended the story from the defeat of the Emperor in Return of the Jedi, not from the original trilogy itself.
I have vague recollections of a long and arduous process of rebuilding a new government in the wake of the Empire and restoring the lost Jedi Order, with heavy doses of space politics, flashy foes, and moral dilemmas along the way.
Don't waste your time reading this. I am not a hater but this book lack of...... This book has nothing! Bad sequences bad develop of the characters. The author gave them a new personality, and that was bad because they were not they characters to do that. It create a plot with a lizards that was boring and without sense. To me if you are going to write about something that already has its own personality and background so don't Try to make fancy things just to highlight your work. Don't try to reinvent the wheel!
I'll confess I didn't read the whole of it, only the first quarter or so. I stopped because it was rather dull and plodding, requiring a lot of effort to keep going. I can only assume the book starts to get interesting later on, though that would be a rather paltry reward for the rather dull first 80 pages of the book.
Pretty decent read. The characters were familiar and the dialogue suited them well. I liked Luke's challenges but felt some of the action scenes were a little rushed in and out as were some of the climactic moments and I didn't get much of a sense that the characters were truly in trouble, but it was authentically star wars and a fun read.
This one was quite angsty, if I remember correctly. You know how Luke had his absurd, mocked to the end of time reaction to "Luke, I am your father"? Well, this book is Leia's reaction to the same thing. And romance with her and Han. And.. some other stuff I can't remember.
This is more like it. Tyers combines a good SF story with classic SW elements to create a tale of appropriately heroic scale. Her task was eased by the positioning of this story immediately after the close of Episode Six, but she expanded the SW universe into new territory.
I really like it, Luke Skywalker continues battling temptation to the Dark Side and wins. Luke also helps a mentally scarred boy turn to the Light, it's a thrilling book. :)
It was too awful to even finish.
This is an odd way to start off Luke's teaching adventures, though I guess it makes sense here because the Jedi Academy trilogy came out the same year as Truce at Bakura.
Anyway, all that is beside the point, which is: when I started reading these novels, there was no timeline at the beginning of the books.
Contemporary!me is thinking she would have been a Luke/Wedge slasher if she'd read this 10 years later.N: (N was one of two fellow capital-F Star Wars Fans that I knew when I was originally into these books.
This is one of the more intriguing aspects of the novel: immediately after the destruction of the second Death Star, Luke and Co. are thrust into a new adventure against another galaxy-threatening force, and Luke finds that his confrontation with the Emperor is not the final time that he must face darkness.
Entechment (human souls trapped in machines to power them) is a bizarre and chilling concept, and the invasion provides for a convenient joint effort between Alliance and Imperials (the titular "truce"), packed with a surprising amount of tension and political intrigue, but the aliens feel like throwaway villains, caricatures of sentient dinosaurs.The remainder of the characters filled their roles well enough.
Still is has decent action and isn't boring, just feels somewhat abbreviated and different.Cultural Quality: 3 Stars (Has a point or two worth noting)This book has a few points to make.
As part of the Star Wars Mythos, this book qualifies as one of those expanded stories.
While this isn't a book that you should send out search parties for, a fair amount of effort should be made to bring it back to home base if discovered or to include it on a general salvage list.Verdict: A fun read that will contribute to and makes its mark by the vast Star Wars Legends story.
