https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360259.Flowers_from_the_Storm
Well, I didn’t have to try hard at all with this story, and no matter how many times I’ve attempted to write this review, I find myself in tears.
And as silly as it might sound, I’ve been afraid to write this review, because if you’ve read the book and didn’t like it, or if you believe as Christian’s mother and Maddy did, that he was deserving of the “punishment” God set upon him, then you believe those things about me, too, because this book is my life.
“God forgive, Jervaulx - that I sh'd love thee.""That I should love thee.” Out of all of the Historical romances I’ve read, this is the one that stands out as the most unconventional of them all. What a brave author to have tackled this subject, and what a remarkably insightful, tender way to do it. ~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*`~`*` MY SYNOPSIS: Archimedea Timms is a Friend…a Quaker…a quiet, devoutly religious and pious woman who grew up in that lifestyle. She knows no other way
To be blunt, they're nerds in the very best way possible, and this fact not only brings Christian back down to the world of mortals, but it brings him into contact with Maddy.
Of course, no one back then knows what a stroke is, so it seems as if overnight, the Duke has lost his mind, his ability to speak and reason, and much of his ability to move.
In fact, Maddy realized very quickly that Christian isn’t mad at all.
And this realization is the beginning of a tender, remarkable story unlike one I’ve ever read before.
As Maddy begins to weaken in character for me, Christian became the stuff of legend.
She is there to volunteer time with the patients at the facility, and there is where they begin a journey together to help him recover his cognitive speech abilities (the primary disability he suffered) and regain his social standard in life (he's a duke).
Some people do go for "all emotional self-torture, all the time" when it comes to what they consider a good story, but that's just not me I guess.
The hero does come to some self-improvements, but I flucuated between truly caring for his character or just feeling sorry for the way the heroine constantly demonized him and his way of life (ton society).
5 Maddygirl stars.I loved this one. Tortured hero, innocent heroine, Society, expectations, fear, love, hate, tears, laughter ... The Duke of Jervaulx was brilliant - and dangerous. Considered dissolute, reckless, and extravagant, he was transparently referred to as the "D of J" in scandal sheets. But sometimes the most womanizing rakehell can be irresistible, and even his most causal attentions fascinated the sheltered Maddy Timms. Then one fateful day she receives the shocking news - the duke
5 Maddygirl stars.I loved this one.
The Duke of Jervaulx was brilliant - and dangerous.
Then one fateful day she receives the shocking news - the duke is lost to the world.
And Maddy knows it is her destiny to help him and her only chance to find the true man behind the wicked facade.
Christian, the Duke of Jervaulx is a brilliant mathematician.
But his circumstances change and he is lost in a world of hell.
I found it might have dragged a bit in the middle but the end and the struggle they both had to reach their HEA, was wonderful.This was set in a time where medical practices are not as advanced as they are today.
Flowers From The Storm, by Laura Kinsale: 5 Perfect Stars * Nurturing * Serene * Spartan * Quiet* Forthright * Spiritual And a Quaker. “Prim and decent, chaste, careful, loyal, moderately brave in some things, a lion in a few, and when he touched her, she fluttered—nice feminine flutter, modesty and passion.” ~ Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx* Damaged* Tortured* Extravagant * Rakish* Devious* HedonisticAnd, a nobleman. “He was the Devil looking at her out of gentian eyes. It’s easy to
Flowers From The Storm, by Laura Kinsale: 5 Perfect Stars
“Prim and decent, chaste, careful, loyal, moderately brave in some things, a lion in a few, and when he touched her, she fluttered—nice feminine flutter, modesty and passion.” ~ Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx* Damaged* Tortured* Extravagant * Rakish* Devious* HedonisticAnd, a nobleman.
But God had taken the Duke of Jervaulx down to the level of Maddy Timms.
Save for the Duke and her father’s mutual love of mathematics, they’d never have met at all.
I am born a Friend, Jervaulx.
Thou art born a nobleman.
Written January 14, 20155 Stars - It had it all - A stunning AMAZING epic storyWho dare to start an 19 hours long audiobook?
I'm stunned...and grateful for my silly happy smile in the end.***********************************************Flowers from the Storm is one, by many historical readers highly praised and much loved romance, about Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx, a brilliant and dangerous womanising rake.
Flowers from the Storm:Simply fabulous romantic and cruelly nerve-wrackingIt started as a heartbreaking read and I can't even express how much I felt, cried, feared etc in the same time as I enjoyed it all so very much.
PopSugar 2018: 24. Un libro con un elemento del clima en el titulo MADRE DEL AMOR HERMOSO!! Qué libro tan más bonito.😍😍Estaba en tres y dos cuando decidí leer este libro unas reseñas lo alababan y otras lo crucificaban entonces cuando lo empecé no estaba muy convencida pero me GANÓ😄Amé, sufrí y me frustré bastante con esta historia es una historia llena de injusticias, conmovedora, con un romance que se va cociendo a fuego lento.Tiene unos personajes atípicos del género, un Duque (Sí señoras y
Un hombre que no está loco pero que sus funciones cerebrales se han visto afectadas que no tiene manera de poder comunicarse sumándole que batalla para poder entender lo que le decían obviamente estaba frustrado con ira y yo sentía todo su ira su frustración su angustia me partía el corazón💔, me daban ganas de meterme al libro y ayudarlo.Maddy fue un bálsamo, un consuelo su esperanza, él sentía que lo comprendía aunque muchas veces lo lastimo fue sin intención en esta parta Maddy me gustó mucho.Christian me encantó, me enamoró, sufrí tanto con el personaje que me llegó al corazón, antes de su enfermedad era un libertino consumado y después se vuelve tan vulnerable y tierno pero con esas ganas de recuperarse y recuperar su ducado y patrimonio.
remarkable.deliciously dark and somewhat in my black-hearted sweet spot. love me a humbled bad-boy, and love to hate a puritanical idiot unable to resist the promise of an orgasm.and jesu—what an orgasm.about the most erotic hetero love scene i can ever remember reading.
If you want to know why, keep reading.Laura Kinsale just doesn't write enough books for me.
The scenes between Maddy and Jervaulx where their feelings are budding, blooming and coming to full life were the essence of romance.
While Jervaulx and Maddy didn’t make sense to someone on the outside looking in, who lacked insight, it makes perfect sense to me.I put this book off for a long time, but it was a case of reading it at exactly the right time.
It's official - this is my favorite story, ever!I first read Flowers from the Storm in 2009 and fell in love with Christian and his Maddygirl from their very first words on the page, but it's such an emotional story that I couldn't bring myself to read it again, though I thought of it often.
As amazing as the story was when I read it, it was even more incredible listening to it, because Mr. Boulton gives the characters such beautiful, passionate, tragic, and inspiring voices that you don’t just hear their story, you experience it.If you've had this on your shelf waiting for the right time, stop waiting.
La autora realmente consigue que te angusties con ciertas escenasNi Maddie, enclaustrada en una sociedad-secta que al final se refleja como "no tan buena gente", y esa cobardía al final como muy bien apunta Chisrtian que nos quita un minuto de respiración.Ni esa familia que quiera a toda costa quitarle el patrimonio ni el controlNi la doble moral de una Eydie que asusta con esa frialdad ante su descendenciaPor todo ello, y ese crecimiento y progresión en el carácter de los protagonistas que van evolucionando a la marcha de la tramaPor ese amor que nace poco a poco, por esas cosas que los protagonistas callan y la autora nos dice con hechos.
For most of the book he was constantly battling being reincarcerated, bankruptcy, his relatives and trying to convey his love for the heroine.
In contrast, Maddy's character arc started later, and this is where the romance failed.
Early on in the book, the moment when she threw his offering of handpicked daisies into the wind and caused him pain pretty much summed up her character's actions for the rest of the novel.
In summary, a good historical novel but the religious prejudice and weak, annoying heroine did not endear this romance to me.
This book was recommended to me as a sad story--I think the people thought it was emotionally gripping but I found it to be neither.
On the cover of the book where it says "One of the World's Most Cherished Love Stories"--I think that's a bit over the top.Jervaulx was an amazing character and you could feel his frustration when he tried to speak and control his mind to try and make things work.
I didn't really like her until the end when she FINALLY got her act together and stopped with the Light/Truth crap of the Quakers and went to Jervaulx.
Because, the plot changes so quickly that it is hard to tell what is going to happen next.I have really loved the character of Christian.
His imperfection makes him human.(view spoiler)[He has earned my respect, in the end of the novel, when Maddy comes back to him, he tells that his character is not pure like her.
(hide spoiler)]The character of Maddy is shy, but, bold when the situation demands.(view spoiler)[I have liked that Maddy accepts Christian's illegitimate daughter.
(hide spoiler)]I do not need to tell that this book is romantic, it is a romance novel after all.
The readers who likes historical romance novels will really love it.
(hide spoiler)]How couldn't I feel so happy when Christian finds love?
From their religious activities, the Meetings, the way they dress and speak, and other particular details of The Religious Society of Friends in the 1800s, such as they did disown those who married non-Quakers.(view spoiler)[Christian's disease and disorders were also written extremely well.
I wasn't happy when I realized that until I read this book, I had never wondered how devastating they might have felt when they wanted to say something but they just couldn't find the right words.
(hide spoiler)]Romance readers would wonder about the love scenes.
Pues aquí llego yo y sólo le doy un tres estrellas.Tal vez soy dura.
Tal vez me arrepienta.Pero es que he odiado el libro, y después lo he amado.
Tal vez la autora lo haya hecho a propósito para que sintamos en nuestras carnes la agonía que sufrió Christian en el manicomio, para que suframos como él sufrió el terrible trance de no poder comunicarse.
Si, tal vez Laura Kinsale ha jugado con nosotros de forma magistral...
Es su realidad: es el blanco más blanco de todos los blancos;porque es el único que ha visto.
(Angels could be Quakers, right?) Archimedea (Maddy) Timms is a Quaker who records her blind father's geometry analysis.
Her father John collaborates on geometry with Christian, the Duke of Jervaulx.
That's when Maddy first meets the duke.
Maddy helps her cousin, Dr. Edward Timms, volunteering at his "health retreat" (asylum).
Loved her blind father, John Timms.
Maddy got annoyingly stubborn at times, and I really wish it had a longer HEA epilogue, to offset all the challenges Maddy and Christian had to overcome.
As for the Quaker meeting, great "truth" scene, yet I wanted Maddy to show more decisiveness at the end.
5 STARS  With no rule but love between us...  Wow. This one blew me away. LOVED every painful, blissful, second of it. I want to go back and read it again, and again. Romance perfection is all I can say. There were so many amazing quotes and tender moments, I wanted to highlight the entire book. The writing was brilliant. I have nothing bad to say about this book. I also want to thank my lovely friend Lisa for lending me her book, and her ear, and her now drenched shoulder to cry on, as I made m
5 STARS
With no rule but love between us...
Wow. This one blew me away.
LOVED every painful, blissful, second of it.
I want to go back and read it again, and again.
Romance perfection is all I can say.
There were so many amazing quotes and tender moments, I wanted to highlight the entire book.
The writing was brilliant.
I have nothing bad to say about this book.
I also want to thank my lovely friend Lisa for lending me her book, and her ear, and her now drenched shoulder to cry on, as I made my way through it.
A thousand?My GR friend Caz opened her review of this audiobook by saying, “It’s absolutely fantastic, so go and buy it immediately!” I can only add that this is an understatement.I read this book in 2011 and gave it four stars.
Although I thought it was a wonderful story, the annoying Quaker heroine kept it from being a five star read for me.
Caz's review, however, finally inspired me to take a chance on an audiobook, and I'm so glad that I did.In the excellent hands of narrator Nicholas Boulton, Maddie-girl goes from annoying to inspiring, and the truly damaged hero, Jervalux, is unforgettable.
I did NOT want to read this book, I mean, a Quaker chick?! A dude who can't speak?! Bleck!Well, this is a hot mess of awesome, everything but the kitchen sink is thrown into this dense plot, but in a GOOD way! Characters are great, plot very taunt and gripping (not talking about the sex scenes either, HAR HAR ;) ) I enjoyed it thoroughly and have several other books by the author on my Kindle, including Shadow and the Star, a Victorian romance where the guy is a child prostitution survivor and a Hawaiian ninja. Yes, serious.
5 Stars!! Brilliant and emotionally draining!  There are so many great reviews for Flowers from the Storm, namely one from UniquelyMoi ~ 1-Click RockChick, who was the friend who recommended this book to me, so I’m not going to get too much into the story, just read her  review . Thanks for the rec Dhes, I loved it!I will say this though, it's a profound story, and while it surrounds tragic circumstances at its core, it's also amusing, passionate, sensual and hopeful. A truly unique opposites at
There are so many great reviews for Flowers from the Storm, namely one from UniquelyMoi ~ 1-Click RockChick, who was the friend who recommended this book to me, so I’m not going to get too much into the story, just read her  review .
Because of the premise of this story and the debilitating disease that Christian suffers from, for a lot of this book, I felt like I was suffocating.
I truly believe that had to do with listening to the book and not reading it.
I don't always read books with bare chested macho men on the cover, but when I do I read Laura Kinsale...
This book has a number of covers without such a picture but just my luck when I swapped for this book and received the bare-chested-man-hair blowing-in-the-wind edition!
The main characters are compete polar opposites which really adds to the chemistry and story as a whole.
If this aspect of her character were removed the whole story would basically fall apart.
The two diametrically opposed characters serve to add dimension to the nearly insurmountable obstacles that they must overcome.
The powerful, brilliant and oh-so-sexy The Duke of Jervaulx has a stroke of sorts, but his family thinks he's lost his mind and shuts him away for his own good - and no one to believe he's not insane and dangerous - until Quaker Maddy Tims comes to Blythedale to help her uncle.
All well and good and I really felt for Christian's experiences recovering from the stroke (especially after the treatment he received in the hospital that was supposed to be helping him), but...At the end I felt there were some loose ends from events and people working in the hospital that were not resolved (or I missed the boat again), as well as some scheming in Christian's family over control of his money, thus I'm knocking off one star.
Partly because I’ve been a bit busy and wanted to take the time to do it justice, and partly because it’s such an emotionally complex story that I felt a bit drained after listening to it and needed to have all my braincell (!) in gear in order to be able to think straight!Even now, I’m not sure that’s the case, but here goes.As with my reviews for The Prince of Midnight and Midsummer Moon, the short version of this review is “It’s absolutely fantastic, so go and buy it immediately!”As for the the longer version.
So he communicated the only way he knew how...through banging shouts, rage and despair.God I felt so sorry for Jervaulx!
But God sent someone in his life to help him.
He sent Archimidea Timms aka Maddygirl, the Quaker.This book was an adventure.
There came a time in the book where literally the only One who could save him was God Himself:"He rested his face down in his hands.
Amen."The romance between the lowly Quaker and the powerful duke was a slow, but strong one.
My heart feels pain when I think about this story and I finished it a couple of weeks ago.
She started out more open minded, then became less so, which I found strange, since she was supposedly growing more in love with Christian the farther along in the book.
Sometimes she's also a little too mean for my liking...I just felt so bad for Christian, I wanted to protect him and put him in this little bubble of safety.
I've never in my life wanted to give someone a big reassuring hug so much in my life, since no in the book was going to do it for me--and never did.
I loved Christian's two friends and how they were willing to do anything to protect him.
I always love a guy who likes dogs.
Ninguno empieza a cambiar de manera alarmente y sin motivo.No es la primera vez que leo algo de la autora y si bien la vez anterior no me terminó de gustar su historia (a pesar de que también se sale un poco de lo que suelen ser los tópicos) con esta me ha conquistado.
También es bastante fiel a la hora de retratarnos cómo se comportaban los nobles de la época en lo tocante a varios aspectos como con sus finanzas.Si con lo primero que leí de la autora no tenía muy claro que volviera a leer nada suyo con este estoy definitivamente segura de que lo haré.
Aunque el argumento me ha resultado original y la forma de escribir de Kinsale me ha parecido muy buena, la prota y concretamente su personalidad, me ha chafado prácticamente por completo el libro.
Cuando el prota se encuentra en la situación que se encuentra, que ya es complicada de por sí, ella a mi parecer más que ayudarle parece que le quiera poner más trabas de las que ya le ponen el resto.
Seguramente lea más novelas de esta autora con la esperanza de dar con una protagonista más de mi agrado y con una historia que me una más a la novela.
I think for a book to be romantic to me, I need to feel that the hero and heroine need to be with each other, the obstacles to that happening are difficult to overcome, I like at least one of them a lot and I want very much for them to end up with each other.
So I did feel that Maddy and Christian needed to be with each other, they overcame huge obstacles to be together, I liked and admired them both (and I especially liked Maddy) and I very much wanted them to be together at the end of the book.
ufff cada vez que salía el Gorila me ponía mala,que corae me daba ese tío y la familia del duque también...por no hablar de los mete mierdas que hay...la relación de M y C me ha gustado mucho.es verdad que son muy distintos pero a la vez se complementan muy bien.aunque tengo que reconocer que entiendo que ella es así y lo que piensa lo lleva a raja tabla pero ha veces me sacaba de quicio lo cabezona que es.
