https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8298.The_Little_House_Cookbook
Prairie cooking for Little House fans. A nice companion to the series as here you will find the recipes from the Little House books, as well as cooking techniques and historical context. As a fan of the Little House series, I really enjoyed learning more about all that went on "behind the scenes" to put dinner on the table (no matter how meager it might be). From field or forest to dinner table was an involved process and a far cry from today's much simplified cooking. Really makes you appreciate the conveniences of modern times!
I wanted the fun of a pioneer meal and food people would enjoy.What I discovered, while looking for recipes that wouldn’t give my guests heart disease, was a good read.
I learned that tomatoes only became sweet at the turn of the century, and that Laura (who became a renowned poultry farmer in her own right) lived to see “poultry raising change from a gentlemen’s sport and farm wife’s pocket money to two separate industries, egg production and meat production.” Today poultry farmers use different breeds for “layers” versus “fryers.”Laurafans will love how Walker takes on recipes that demonstrate Ma’s resourcefulness during lean times.
Blackbird Pie made with starlings you hunt yourself, cottage cheese balls (eat the curds and use the whey to fertilize your garden), and apples you dry by spearing on a curtain rod and hanging on a laundry rack near a radiator.In this cookbook, Walker attempts to recreate the recipes for foods found in Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House books.
I'm an adult and on day two of mold-wiping, I'm going to toss that thing and head to Safeway for some shrink-wrapped cheddar.Aside from being too much work, there's the food safety issue.
Growing up, I was a die-hard Little House fan. The books, the show, the time period, the attire- I loved it all! So when I saw The Little House Cookbook for sale on @bookoutlet I knew I had to get myself a copy! Reading this was like being reacquainted with an old friend. ♥ I will likely not try a majority of the recipes included but there are some Im excited to try! This book is rich in backstory and history and I loved that aspect of it. This ignited a passion in me to re-read through the seri
Growing up, I was a die-hard Little House fan.
The books, the show, the time period, the attire- I loved it all!
So when I saw The Little House Cookbook for sale on @bookoutlet I knew I had to get myself a copy!
Reading this was like being reacquainted with an old friend.
This book is rich in backstory and history and I loved that aspect of it.
This ignited a passion in me to re-read through the series!
For me, the Little House Cookbook was ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️/5 stars.
A must read for any Little House fans.
And she put a thick slice of birds-nest pudding on his bare plate, and handed him the pitcher of sweetened cream speckled with nutmeg.
Almanzo took up his spoon and ate every little bit." (from Farmer Boy).The Little House books are filled with glorious, worshipful descriptions of food which could only be written by someone who most likely suffered from malnutrition when growing up.
Like this food would be AWESOME if you were a child laborer, picking potatoes for 15 straight hours or trying to avoid starvation during a six-month winter by consuming one slice of course brown bread a day.
Happy B=Day Laura.A few years back we did our Thanksgiving Day Dinner out of this. Featured some trout a friend of ours caught. Don't recall what=else ; but it was superior to the typically bland US menu for this most imperialistic of Holidaze. [still looking forward to that Corn=Fed Crow The Significant mentions on occasion]
If you read the Little House books and were fascinated with the descriptions of food -- this is for you. It's not just a cookbook, it's also a wonderful food history and social context to the actual series of books, which has never faded from my most beloved list of rereads on a rainy day. And also? Come on. It teaches you how to make pancake men.
This is such a wonderful book because it has authentic recipes, not just watered down versions of real pioneer food. I highly recommend it to anyone who loves the Little House series.
The author goes into detail about each recipe, with quotes from the book it was mentioned in, and also relevant information about cooking at the time.Some notes as I read: Even though I feel like I spend a lot of time cooking now, it’s nothing compared to Laura’s days.
Caroline Ingalls and her pioneer sisters would have had little time for “finding themselves” or hobbies when one realizes the huge amount of time it took to prepare food and keep their houses clean.
I wanted to read this cookbook more for the historical insights it would provide into cooking methods during Laura Ingalls Wilder's lifetime than for inspiration, and I was not disappointed. As a child, I didn't really appreciate the limitations of a prairie pioneer diet (or the monotonous reliance on corn meal) or how hungry the Ingalls family must have been during The Long Winter; Barbara Walker provides context for the recipes, as well as helpful updates to incorporate modern ingredients and cooking methods. I'm actually inspired to try making my own pickles and cheese now!
I have always wanted to make Ma Ingalls Green Pumpkin Pie. Now that I actually have a recipe, I may devote a big chunk of this year’s veggie garden to growing pumpkins. (I don’t know where else I’ll find green ones). This book is more than just fun; it’s educational and a nice resource for understanding the ingredients used in 19th century recipes and how to recreate those recipes today.
This was great! I bought it because we were reading the little house books, and Lyra said how she wanted to make some of the food. There is a paragraph about the food from the book, then a little history of it, and then the closest recipe that the author could make/find. Many of the ingredients are specialty items now, but we have already tried a few of the recipes and it has been fun.
And it's all here in this wonderful book, nearly every single food or recipe that even had only a passing mention in the entire set.
No Little House collection is complete without this addition to complement all the foods and recipes mentioned and given in the series.
I also loved the way the author kept with the Little House theme throughout the book, with nearly every recipe being preceded by an excerpt from one or more of the books themselves, and the charming, original illustrations found in the series being scattered generously throughout the book to complement the recipes given.
by Wendy McClure - in it she mentioned The Little House Cookbook.
The research Barbara Walker did into the foods that appear in the Little House books is very impressive, and makes for interesting reading, although not for the squeamish or the vegetarian (and I'm the latter).
It's a bit of a funny combination, because it is a children's book, and Walker will occasionally refer to the need to get an adult to do something - but it's so incredibly improbable that a child would be making these recipes.
This is an interesting combination of Walker's trials in replicating food described in the Little House series, a look at what pioneer food/eating/cooking was like (particularly as they differ from today), and excerpts from various books in the series.
While reading the books I would often wonder what, say, "hardtack" was (and what it tastes like), so I thought I would be totally gung-ho about making these different dishes.
(As example, here are the ingredients for hardtack: flour, water, and salt.) Still, even if I don't make a single recipe, this is a fun book and recommended for anyone who likes the Ingalls Wilder stories.
We have had this one for years, ever since my boys and I were reading the Little House books aloud together.
Reading it again brought back fond memories of making the “Pulled Candy” from Farmer Boy with Eric for a 4th grade book report.
In the story, the candy pull was less-than-successful, but ours turned out pretty good and made us appreciate modern candy.
This book is a delight to read, with excerpts from Wilder books, accurate historical information about frontier cooking ingredients and methods and Garth Williams illustrations from the original books.
I’m looking forward to sharing this one again with my grandchildren.
Of course this is a reference book so you will never really finish the book( by what I mean finish is trying all the recipes) but it also has great information on how food was prepared and what they had. But also sense I am interested in Indigenous foods in my area, and foraging, I’m sure that these foods mentions are only a few of what the Ingalls had really eaten.
This was fun to read alongside the Little House series. The author did a great job of finding/creating recipes the modern cook can follow. Lots of historical details about food in the late 19th century.
My mom was also a great cook so when I came across this book on one of our library trips, I was intent on having her help me recreate the old-fashioned recipes.
Most though, can be adapted for a modern kitchen if you get a little creative and, if you are really into cooking, it can be fun looking for the hard to find ingredients in specialty shops.I remember making the molasses candy by pouring a molasses mixture onto a pan of fresh snow, making homemade butter (my mom thought having us shake the canning jars of heavy whipping cream was a great way to keep us out of trouble in the summer), and I was so proud when I tested out the recipe for pound cake which I brought to share with my 4th grade class when i gave my book report on laura ingalls wilder.A great book for the experimental/historically accurate chef!
What I did enjoy about the book though, is the history the author went into when writing about the different methods of cooking, about what types of fruit and vegetables were eaten in the 1800's versus what we eat now and the detail she used when adapting the recipes to modern kitchens.
Also, even though I enjoy reading about the history of wheat and grains in the Midwest, and the difficulties of making a sourdough starter, I don't believe I would have enjoyed this as a child when I was reading the Little House books.
Personal Reaction This book is packed with recipes that I actually really want to try out!
This book combines so many great things: The Little House on the Prairie, good informational books, and food!
Purpose/use in the classroom After assigning the little house of the Prairie books to my 3rd to 4th graders I would use this book to discuss informational writing then try out a recipe from the book!
How cool is it to be able to try the same food that the characters in the book ate!
Its great to have an informational book to go along with realistic fiction.
It's not that I want to utilize the recipes in this finely researched cookbook.
In fact, most of them sounds bland.
(especially the numerous cornmeal recipes where they all pretty much uses the same ingredients) However the book made me feel nostalgic for the simple times gone past.
I remember reading the food porn in the little house books as a youngster.
It made me realize at the time that most foods can actually be made at HOME.
And it was GOOD.
It was a revelation for me.
And this book is a lovely reminder of that for me.
I'm in the middle of this book, and am really enjoying reading it.
So, a good part of the enjoyment comes from the nostalgia of remembering the stories I loved so much 3-ish decades ago.
I also doubt that I'll be making cracklins or very many of the other recipes, but reading about how they used to cook different things is quite enjoyable.Update: I completely enjoyed reading the little snippets from the Little House books, and reading about what they ate and how they prepared it.
I wasn't quite ready to start cooking prairie-style, but loved reading the book anyway.
I understand why some may not because it is better titled a cookbook rather than a recipe book.
The recipes are not in a standard recipe book format and really it is more of a book you have to actually read.
It is this knowledge that is so fun and enriching in this book.
I LOVED in the "Little House" books and read them almost every year.
These recipes have been fun.
I have been trying to convince Josh to read the books.
He has finished Little House in the Big Woods.
We can't wait to do the Molasses-on-Snow Candy this year for the first time!!
This cookbook contains old-fashioned recipes like the ones Ma Ingalls and Mrs. Wilder used to make.
The recipes included come from the text of the books and are accompanied by the passage from the novel and Garth Williams' charming illustrations.
It includes rye and injun bread, maple syrup on snow, fried apples and onions and many more.
I used to check this book out of the library all the time.
I don't think I ever really used it but I liked learning about pioneer food.
When the library weeded their children's non-fiction and I saw this book for sale, I grabbed it.
Excellent as a book to just read, with recipes that are good as well. The recipes are authentic, which is great, although this authenticity also means that they often call for such things as lard, starlings, a hare, green tomatoes, or other difficult-to-find ingredients. Before each recipe is an excerpt from the Little House books in which the recipe is mentioned, and there are lengthy introductions about cooking in the pioneer days. I highly recommend it, less as a cookbook than an enjoyable read.
I picked up this book for my daughter who is reading the series. I expected it to be a kitschy collection of recipes. I was very pleasantly surprised by the amount of historical data and background. The author has created an excellent window into the era's culinary history. I don't plan to make any of the recipes, but they look far more authentic than I would have expected. The book is also very fun to read. :-)
I was so excited to learn that I wasn't the only one that wanted to try all the meals that were talked about in the "Little House on the Prarie" books. I have tried quite a few recipes already and I appreciate the authenticity rather than trying to adapt too much to our modern society. There is actually quite a bit of reading that goes along with the recipes that explain foods in those times. I have found this book very fun and a great piece of history.
This is a good reading book as well as being a good cookbook. It gave me quite a bit of insight into the Little House world from the perspective of the food they ate. It also made me realize what a big difference there was between the childhoods of Laura and Almanzo, just simply from the variety of food which would have been available to each. Many of the recipes look tasty and I definitely want to try them out.
This book is wonderful. Well-researched, light-hearted and practical. The Little House books meant a lot to me - as a child I read them over and over. I can't wait to try a few of these recipes.The only downside is that the book is out of print, and I am using a library copy. I'd love to find one of my own.
