https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878307.Duncton_Wood
It seems the world has almost forgot about Duncton wood.
The books are hard to find in second hand shops.
I would rate the books up there with Lord of the rings, Dune, the dark materials trilogy and watership down.
If you like that sort of stuff you will simply be amazed by the moles of Duncton Wood.
Amazed it took you so long to read it, for starters.
The characters are lovable, you will really care what happens to them and the world they inhabit underground is well developed to the point of fascinating.
This is a very short review because I should be working, but I need to return a few books to the library today....If I owned this book I wouldn't give it away (unlike a few that I'm trying to pass on, so that next time I move house there aren't quite as many boxes for the poor removal men to carry (there were over 100 boxes of books!)).
I am not going to pay anything at a free library, so I have to adjust my library habits.
But that's got nothing to do with reviewing this book, so I'll get going.
Don’t be put off by the fact that this is a book about moles, because it a great story of love, hate, violence, forgiveness and courage.A re-read for me, this has always been my favourite of the Duncton books.
There are six in all, three in the Duncton Chronicles and three in the other series.
But this is the best of them, I felt that the others got a little too bogged down in philosophy and Horwood turned slightly preachy with his pacifist moles.Despite that, I will be on the lookout for the others in this series as I had forgotten how well written they were.
The Secret World of the Moles18 February 2017 There are some books out there that it doesn’t matter how long they are, the story is really engrossing and I really don’t want to put them down. However there are other books that start off good but are so long that by the time I start getting close to the end my eyes start glasing over and I quickly begin to lose interest. Then there are books that are basically crap. Well, this isn’t one of the last type of books, and this certainly isn’t one of t
Actually, one of the major flaws that I did find in this book was not so much that it was too long but rather that it contained two distinct stories and thus it could have worked much better, and been much more interesting, if Horwood has divided it into two books.
So, the two stories are thus: defeating Mandrake and freeing the systems; and then going on a quest to restore the religious beliefs of the moles in Duncton Wood.
Religion actually plays a central role in the book, namely because we have Mandrake coming along and dominating the system by destroying the religion and then ruling through brute force.
These parts of the book fly by and I am never less than interested in what is happening to Mekkins and Rose and the Pasture moles.At times Horwood goes into a whimsy of describing every tiny thing and there are a couple of occasions in the book that made me almost want to put it down in disgust - when Bracken is first exploring the Ancient System; when Boswell and Bracken journey to Siabod; when Bracken secretly attends the singing of the Song.
I have all the books in this series and all William's other books too. The Duncton Wood books are superb! Fascinating, magical, absorbing, exciting and I couldn't stop reading any of them until I got to the last page. The fact that the characters are moles adds to the quality for me. I ill be reading the whole series all over again.
This is an epic about generations of moles told with a Celtic voice.
It is a lovely story for one who enjoys traditional tales of good versus evil and lush, poetic narrative.
It fell short for me because the ancient religious story line seems forced, as if the author is thrusting our human thinking on the moles.
The rabbits seem like rabbits with perils and personalities that are well-explained and understood.
The moles are more like little serfs and monks and healers whose personalities are often generalities in my opinion.
I like Duncton Wood for its tale(s) of love and redemption.
What Adams did for rabbits, Horwood does for moles.
The system of mole tunnels under Duncton Wood is large, and moles in one part hardly know those from other parts of the system.
There also some parts of the system that are almost forgotten, and there are also some customs that have been forgotten as well, so that the moles are using their centre, the silence of the Stone at the centre of the system.
This enables a cruel tyrant, Mandrake, to take over the system.
Two young mioles, Bracken and Rebecca, the latter Mandrake's daughter, meet, and eventually embark on a liberation struggle.
Why isn't this book more well-known!?Duncton Wood combines themes similar to the ones in books like Felidae, The Wind in the Willows and Watership Down, but with Moles as the main characters. Their world is often surprisingly cruel, but their gripping adventures are chronicled here. This book is one that every reader needs to read, and it's really worth it.
Just finished reading this for the second time. Very well written tale. Loved the descriptions of the English countryside, peopled (or should i say moled!) by some wonderful characters. Mandrake is a character never to be forgotten. Bracken and Rebecca and their trials and hardships and two moles you really care about - a poignant story of love and commitment. Having said this the book is certainly not for children as there is quite a lot of violence and adult themes. As an adult fairy tale though, it is outstanding and memorable.
What if moles were readers and writers, and had a religion?This book.Seriously, read it if you enjoyed Watership Down.
Maybe they're not as good as I remember or perhaps I just wasn't quite ready to settle down for an six-book epic series about moles and religion!
I used to love this book, and it is still good, don't get me wrong, but I guess it takes a level of commitment I wasn't quite up for.
But if you're the kind of person who fancies six thousand-odd pages of religion, genocide, warfare, mysticism, romance and...er, moles then this series is for you.
I also admired his ability to give them character without un-animalizing them.And there were parts of it that were beautiful: Cairn and Rebecca's story; the loving descriptions of Duncton Wood, which is near where the author lives; the first journey through the Chamber of Roots.
Gone with the Wind would be a more fitting one, and that probably took me at least as long to read the first time.) And the woodland descriptions, beautiful or no, became quite exhausting at times.My verdict: Very well-written, and full of gems, but not recommended for any but the dedicated reader.
'Duncton Wood' is a book I well remember coming out and about which I was a little scathing at the time.
Fittingly for the author of several splendid sequels to 'Wind in the Willows', this book - like them - is tinged throughout by a form of mystical, pagan religion as well as being a love story, an action adventure novel and treatise on the common mole.The writing is a pleasure to read and the author is not afraid to face the 'realities' of life for a small country mammal like a mole, with beloved characters being killed off with little emotion but a great deal of effectiveness.
Duncton Wood is an Adventure-Love story like no other.
It's the story of two Moles, Bracken and Rebecca, and the adventures they have as they try to protect Duncton Wood from Mandrake an outsider and oddly enough, Rebecca's father.
It's unfortunate that this novel is being compared with Watership Down, due to the fact that Watership Down, a great novel on it's own, falls short when compared against Duncton Wood.
The animal kingdom as shown in Duncton Wood is savage and the survival of the fittest is a fact of life and death.
I recently purchased the other five books in the Duncton series.
Not many people in the US know of this book (or even it's fairly prolific author), but it's well known and loved in Britain.
Horwood writes beautifully.
As with Watership Down, this story is on the surface about animals (moles in this case) but is really about a complex society, complete with moral, political, emotional, and religious aspects.
I remember how moved I was by this story when I read it.
There's a sacredness about it and you really care about the main characters.
This book is the first of nine, although I believe only the first trilogy is available in the US.

Quite possibly one of the best fictional books ever written. More powerful than it has any right to be. If you read it from the wrong mindset or point of view, I can see how it might not work as well, but for anyone who still holds out hope for a whimsical, powerful, unquenchable love, this book connects to your inner-most longings and brings them powerfully to life. Also, everybody in the book is a mole. Yeah.
Similar to Watership Down, but with moles, this book demonstrates an excellently-crafted world populated by moles (not cutesy anthropomorphic ones but real ones that live and die among nature's often brutal indifference. The author has crafted a believable and interesting mythology to go with the characters, and it is definitely worth reading.
Next to Gone with the Wind this is my second favourite book of all time.Even though the characters are moles they are every bit as well drawn as human characters and I could get quite carried away by adjectives and superlatives in describing this book. And for the record I didn't get on with Watership Down.
I went in blind with this book, not knowing what to expect, and found a beautifully crafted world filled with many convincingly multidimensional characters and plenty of lore.
It occasionally fell flat for me in its execution; there were times where the story called for more suspension of disbelief than I could manage, was too romanticised for my tastes, or felt to be just flat out long-winded or incohesive.
This however did not stop be from being drawn in and finding it hard to put the story down.
I've been reading this book slowly -- a few pages at a time -- for the last four years.
It feels very strange to have actually finished it.
Usually, if I like a book, I read it in a couple of days.
If I don't like a book...
I just fail to read it.
I've never read another book like this one -- one that I enjoyed enough that I kept coming back to it, but that I felt no urgency to hurry through at all.
It was kind of peaceful.
Perhaps in another four years, I'll finish that one.
I would probably read this novel differently now than when I first read it, but my rating reflects my memory of Horwood's book as a life-changing experience. It was one of my first introductions to the magic of real faith, faith that surpasses words and doubts and restrictions, faith that transcends and makes transcendent. There are five sequels, but this novel remains (to my reading) the centerpiece of the series.
This was so beautiful to me at the time, and I know when I reread it all the little Orwellian references to religion will come to the surface so easily in comparison. There is something beautiful and sacred I will keep about Bracken and Boswell that I might not let myself completely come to terms with in the later generation.
FINALLY finished! It's either taken me 2 years or 3. I've lost count. It became a question in the end of 'I'm not going to let it beat me'.Sort of Lord of the Rings for moles, and yes it's as weird as that sounds.
Well this is book is still great read it years ago in paper form....Such a great story its a classic I just love this book so glad i got to read it again...
Better than I would have guessed for a book written like Lord of the Rings and about moles. But at 730 pages, too long.
Nothing short of an epic. Yes, it's long and yes, it's about moles which doesn't sound too interesting. Believe me, it definitely is. Loved it.
This is a really wonderful book that I'd absolutely recommend to anyone who enjoys the work of Jean M Auel. However it is not the child-friendly work that it appears from summaries and the fact that it's about moles. There are a couple of instances of rape and one of incest, so that's something to bare in mind.The fantastical elements are wonderfully subtle though and sit in the middle of the main narrative very comfortably, without being over the top of feeling shoehorned in
It's okay to have some stereotypes in a strongly plot driven book, but this one isn't strong enough to keep you from noticing that so many characters have little to no depth.If you are fond of Watership Down and hoping for a similar experience, you won't find it here.
Still, the point stands that Hazel, Fiver, Bigwig, and Dandelion felt like rabbits and Bracken, Rebecca, Mandrake, Boswell, and Mekkins feel like human beings).Yet, in spite of my complaints, I repeat, this isn't a bad book.
I just feel this book is not nearly as good as the positive reviews make it out to be.
