https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120253.Good_Faeries_Bad_Faeries
I have read and own hundreds of books on faeries, folklore, Celtic tradition, and the history of faeries throughout the world.
Within the faerie lover's community it is widely known that this is the book of basic faerie lore with the most comprehensive selection of fae and the most accurately illustrated of all books on the subject.
Brian Froud is widely known as one of the best artists of all things magical, but he is probably best known for his work with Jim Henson in creating the puppets for the movies Dark Crystal and the Labyrinth.
This is no child's book.
The drawings are gorgeous - Brian Froud is, without a doubt, one of the most talented fantasy artists alive today.
You can tell, just by skimming, that Froud truly put all his heart into this book.
Although you go through it fast, you will find yourself going back through it, over and over, studying the pictures, re-reading the captions and notes, and, in a way, building a relationship with these creatures.
Froud has a one of a kind style.
With this style, you feel as though you are reading a non-fiction - for fans of fantasy, you cannot go wrong with this book.
I bought this book for my daughter because she is obsessed with fairies.
Disney fairies, complete with pink tutus and silliness and ugh and all sorts of cotton candy pink feminine yargh.
I love fantasy and imagination and believing in things beyond our understanding, and I feel like my daughter has completely missed out on the mystical, fantastic, and even practical world that belief in fairies has consisted of throughout history.
She loved the illustrations and was amazed by some of the descriptions.
(Plus, my daughter tried to sneak it to school.
Contraband fiction is always a win in my book.)
The five stars are for the superb and very atmospheric art that Mr Froud excels at. The downside is the writing left me feeling meh, but lets not dwell on that. GREAT artwork and worth every penny for that.
Brian Froud is an artist whose work you've likely seen many times, perhaps without knowing whose art it was.
He has designed for a lot of movies, notably Labyrinth and The Dark Crystal.This collection is truly glorious and creativity-inspiring.
These creatures and magical women look so natural and realistic, while being so imaginary.It also comes with notes on his inspiration behind the pieces.
I like the way it is set up as well, with the "right side" half of the book being benevolent, playful and colourful, and the "wrong side" being the complete opposite, with evil and devilish faeries from out of the darkness.Art - 5/5Notes & Extras - 4/5
Which face is revealed today? Which face shall I show you - my beauteous face of the angelic faerie, brows resplendent, luminescent eyes, or are you seeing the shadowed hood of my brow, grasping at my hooked nose and malicious, gapped-tooth grin?
A book I bought for my wife. Nice flight into fantasy, good illustrations. A small vacation for the mind.
Brian Froud's artwork is beyond amazing. I keep this book next to my desk and whenever I have a problem with inspiration, I flip through it, and the pages become my muse.
My Mom sent me this...years ago..and others, too!
This is a "field book" of sorts, a pretend manual if you will (like fantastic beasts and where to find them "by" Newt Scamander - J.K. Rowling).
It's filled to the brim with illustrations and sketches made by the author, about the different fairies that "exist" in the World, and how to deal with/handle them.
It's both humorous, and beautifully illustrated.Some of my favorites are: (view spoiler)[The Computer Glitch, Bad Hair Day Faery, and Melsh Dick (whose duty is to protect unripe nuts), as well as the Faery of Transformation, the Faery of Focused Attention, and the Faery of Pure Joy.
(hide spoiler)].For the whole review you can visit my blog.
A beautifully illustrated book that’s a delight to dip in and out of. Froud makes sure to explain that our ideas of good and bad don’t really apply to faeries. They all have both lightness and darkness. This grey area is exemplified in how the book can be turned upside down as you get towards the middle, and we can see the “other side”, so to speak, of a particular faerie. It’s always best to stay on a faerie’s good side, no matter how “good” they may appear.
Simply delightful and highly recommended to fans of The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth.
Froud is by far one of my favorite modern artists alongside HR Giger-Froud's style defined what fairies look like in the general population's mind, in my opinion.
If you were an 80's kid like me, his work with Jim Henson in The Labyrinth likely impacted your childhood in some special way.
So about this book- what is super special aside from the ample magical and breathtaking illustration with amazing detail, and lovely scribbled side notes detailing symantics about the faeries and other mythical realm creatures is that the book is reversable, when turned backwards or upside down-Good Faeries (turn upside down) Bad FaeriesHow clever <3 Forever one of my favorites
Love Brian Froud: love, Love, LOVE !!!
I have loved his art since I was a kid.
I do not, however, have vast, knowledgeable, erudite things to say about this book.
But when I explore the art, I mutate internally into six-year-old Christine, plastic fairy wand in hand, commanding all of my tiny invisible subjects.
Or sixteen-year-old Christine, cuddled on the sofa with three-year-old cousin Jessie, reading her stories of fairies and gnomes.
These books are sentimental, the art is whimsical and somehow joyful.If you are a fan of fantasy art, give them a try.
I am someone who is often doodling creatures in the corners of my notepads. I feel the touch of magic return to these creations after reading this book. Froud encourages the reader not to see sketches as flat shapes, but rather as ethereal beings captured in time by those that have second sense to see them.
This has some of the most beautiful artwork ever - he is a master. He was also the creative consultant for the film Labyrinth and The Dark Crystal.....I will always be reading this book & finding new aspects to the pictures.
Library borrow; great drawings. inspiration for kids fancy dress.
Oldie but goodie, easy and interesting fairies for a quick sketch
Beautiful artwork and some good myths from the British isles.
Brian Froud has written a part of my soul into reality which has long been elusive to me.. Until now. I will cherish this book for ages to come, I'm sure.
I started reading from the "Good Faeries" side of the book and it kind of annoyed me, at the start, (view spoiler)[ cuz for a while it seemed like all of the good faries are basically naked human women with a few animal features  (hide spoiler)] but there is more variety going forward.
I read it by myself basically straight through, but after the introduction(s) I think it would be fun to read the book a bit more leisurely: open up to a page at random, find a picture of a faery that looks interesting, and then read from there.
I skipped around quite a bit.The illustrations were all right, and there was something about faeries in traditional folklore, but a lot of it was the author talking about how he thinks faeries are real and actually have to do with modern daily life - he insisted they can cause anything from run stockings to mental illness to physical healing, and by getting in touch with them we can know ourselves, or the world, better - it was quite odd.
Beautiful artwork and a delightful mix of faeries from folklore and faeries who play with the delicate balance of being a happy, productive human (such as the Indecision Faery or the Tongue Tangler).
A good deal of heart and adoration/respect for fae and the fantastical goes into this book and you can tell with each introduction, with the vibrant artwork, and all the playful descriptions.
I received this book several years ago as a Christmas present from my mother and I wish it hadn't taken me so long to sit down and fully read it, rather than flip through and glance at the artwork as I had done before.
Gorgeous illustrations with layers upon layers of faery imagery, fantastic beings, and meaningful nature.Some of the descriptions accompanying the illustrations are based on world folklore which can be traced centuries back, others are the interpretations of the author. Although faeries, as messangers of nature, are considered entwined with the spiritual realm, sometimes the descriptions gravitate heavily toward spiritual and self-motivational texts. Personally, I would have prefered tiny fantasy stories to accompany such beautiful illustrations, but many people will love the writing as is.
I liked the illustrations in this a lot; they were much more detailed and colorful than in Faeries. A lot of the fairies in this were invented by Froud for the volume, so they are definitely fun, but have less of the old lore that the other book has.
Did not read entirely, just skimmed. Want to use later as a reference for faeries. Very detailed, incredible artwork.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
