https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14061955-siege-and-storm
This was loads better than the first book. I loved the new characters that were introduced & I'm digging the direction the plot is going in. I'm interested to see what happens in the final book in this trilogy!
Yup, I'm still insanely in love with the Darkling. I'm going to burn in Hell. Or rule the world with him as his Queen of Darkness, whatever comes first.  “I know the truth in your heart. The loneliness. The growing knowledge of your own difference. The ache of it.”  Alina tried to deny it, the connection and the similarities with him, but she could't hide from the truth. Her purpose seemed clear; rebuild the Second Army, defeat the Darkling, destroy the Fold, free Ravka, find the third amplifier
Her purpose seemed clear; rebuild the Second Army, defeat the Darkling, destroy the Fold, free Ravka, find the third amplifier, don't burn everyone in the process and keep Mal close.
Some people worshipped her as a Saint, some hated her because they were afraid of her powers and some wanted her to run away from this new life and become the person she was before she had the potential to destroy the world .Well, not some people, just Mal.
I had not delved into the Grishaverse Trilogy since reading book one in 2015, and I am saddened that it took me so long to go back to this amazing world!I definitely struggled with the beginning of this book, but I feel it is a reflection of myself instead of the quality of the book.
I’ve realized that jumping into sequels of books I haven’t read in years via audiobook is a habit I should break as I don’t retain much from the beginning on the story, but nonetheless once I finally got engaged, I was HOOKED.I love these characters and the way they develop in the second installment.
I love this world.
This rating might come as a surprise after I was so excited to get reacquainted with the Darkling in my early status update. However, if it hadn't been for the scenes with the Darkling, this book would have probably only received one star - it's only his characterisation, his different layers and, let's face it, his sexiness that convinced me to rate this at two stars. Maybe I could stretch to 2.5 if I close my eyes and picture the Darkling like this:I usually approach the sequels to three star
I had also hoped that Alina would mature and grow once she harnessed her power and realised that some things are more important than beauty and looks - this realisation never came.
However, the main difference between the two that overrides everything else and is way bigger than my problems with the beauty issue - which I may have otherwise been able to look past - is that I found this second book incredibly boring.
This book introduced several new characters who I never came to care about, whilst also bringing Alina Shallowkova and whiny Mal back into the spotlight.Mal is a dull character.
The Good:1. Alina and her inner dark anti-hero2. Nikolai3. Nikolai's face4. Nikolai's clothes5. Everything Nikolai said6. Everything Nikolai did7. The last 10%, in which some stuff actually happenedThe Bad:1. Mal2. Mal, cause I seriously hate that asshole3. The confusing and vague nature of Alina's powers4: MALThe Ugly:1. How oddly fixated I am with this strange series and how invested I am in it despite lukewarm pacing and plotting and holes in the worldbuildingAll I want from the next book is the death of Mal. That is all. Mal, please die.That would be awesome.
I’m sure by now you’re curious about the lyrics and I’m happy to oblige:“One to make her happy (Mal)One to make her sad (The Darkling)One to give her good loveThat she never had (Nikolai)Daisy Alina and her boyfriends Livin’ in a houseSharing just a good life.
*lol* I swear to read “Siege and Storm” really felt like Alina and I had 3 different boyfriends because seriously, who’s able to choose between all those awesome boys?
Some might argue that she’s too young for all this but considering how long the Darkling was able to fool everyone around him I think it’s safe to say that Alina really might be their best bet.
If you loved Shadow and Bone, be prepared to be blown away!There are so many things I want mention and squeal about in this review, but OH THE SPOILERS.
I'm not sure this has anything to do with book 3, Ruin and Rising, but I just like cookies, okay?
So be sure to be extra evil next time and give those cookies a run for their money.Love,Steph--------------------Dearest Mal,Please do us all a favor and stop being so insecure over your relationship with Alina.
<3--------------------Sturmhond,I think I speak for everyone when I say, please become a real person.xoxo,Steph========And finally:Dear Leigh,Amazing.You are evil.
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as the first book, and I think it's partly because of my dislike for Mal, and partly because I found the moments between the high action points to be too slow/dull for my taste. My favourite thing about this book was some of the new characters we meet, especially Sturmhond! I was also a little sad we didn't see quite as much of the Darkling, he is such an interesting character.
how can this book have been so much better than book one and yet still not good  “You just punched a prince, Alina. I guess we can add one more act of treason to our list.”I shook out my sore hand. My knuckles smarted. “First of all, are we so sure he really is a prince? And second, you’re just jealous.”“Of course I’m jealous. I thought I was going to get to punch him. That isn’t the point.”  2 1/2 stars, again. Again, very mixed feelings, so I’m going to start by talking about why this book is
Again, very mixed feelings, so I’m going to start by talking about why this book is BETTER!First of all, way better plot!
Wish the narrative would let this series get as dark as it deserves to be and will discuss that down below!!As a last note, I know everyone says this, but I love Nikolai.
I think my mother might actually be in love with Nikolai.
[Okay, yeah, I actually knew that going in.] But the problem isn't even really with Mal. Or really with Alina.
the narrative of this book just will not let this series get as dark as it deserves to be.
I was worried about rereading this book in case it wasn't as wonderful as I remembered...
most of my early favorite YA books have turned out to be something I might not give an enthusiastic 5 stars to if I found them today.
The world is incredible, but I think it's the precious characters that make this series such a favorite.
I don't know how Leigh Bardugo managed to turn a side character into an incredibly well-developed, complex, hilarious little gem with such depth but NIKOLAI LANTSOV IS EVERYTHING.
And Alina is definitely still one of my favorite heroines!
Our Conversation with Leigh Bardugo is up, along with an opportunity to win our Siege and Storm ARC!4.5 stars Siege and Storm is an exquisite jewel of a book.
(I love the gift from Nikolai's father!) The food porn, both real and imagined, made me dizzy with pleasure: smoked sprats on black bread, little dwarf fruit trees, brandied cuckoo, cold soup served in jeweled pumpkin-shaped cups, croquembouche, and a suckling pig, to name but a few of the items that made my mouth water.
So many YA books revert to tired old machinations to separate love interests, but the tension and difficulty between these two feel urgent and real.
You know when a book is so good...
So I'm just going to leave you with a few reasons this book is totally legit.
The struggle is real [and swoon worthy]6.
THE FREAKING ENDING.
There is so much emotional struggle - so many challenges, and our dear Alina had to suffer them all...
(This isn't super spoilery imo but read at your own risk.)He gets a lot of shit in this book for his rash decisions.
You'll have to read my review of book 3.
I feel like I should note that I read this series on audible.
DNF @ 40%Annnnnnd, I'm gonna wave the white flag here, peeps. Despite having already read book one...Despite having ALL three books physically on my shelf...Despite those books being guarded by my beloved John Wick Funko POP...I must bid adieu and part with said technicolor beauties. Because BORED. And because life is too short and my shelves too full. Oh well.Onward!
I found myself really excited in the final chapters with the sudden blaze of action, but couldn't help feeling like Bardugo saved all the fun stuff for the end in an attempt to make sure no one gave up on the series mid way.
I needed more Darkling, I needed more Nikolai, I needed more action, but the only thing I got more of was Mal and Alina being awkward.
I know it sounds like I'm pooping all over this book, and I really did enjoy it overall, it just went in a totally different direction than expected.
So now I’m going to have to do this review in code.In Siege and Storm Alina and Mal are on the run from the Darkling.
As well as line dancing, which makes a dark and creepy addition to the novel, the Darling drives a wedge between Mal and Alina by knitting.
Mal struggles the most in this novel as he is a salt mine.
I have a feeling he learned a lot about himself in this novel.Everyone grows and changes, even the Darkling a little and I wonder if he’ll let Alina continue to cross stitch, or if he’s finally going to seriously back stitch her?
I'm pretty sure I'm going to be the odd man out with my half love half loathe view toward this sequel, but I don't think I've ever read a book that's left me so utterly frustrated between my mixed reactions.To put it another way, I once compared Shadow and Bone to a masterfully constructed house of cards, and that's still true of Siege and Storm.
Here's the thing, Leigh Bardugo is an excellent (some would say superficial) writer in the sense she can pull together character, setting, myth, and plot in a way that's epic, exciting, compelling, and just feels like reading a modern day folk tale, and that got to me, it really did.
I even had time to hope he might have gone, until I felt his hand on my shoulder.“Then I’d be alone, too," he said, and he stayed the whole night through, till the lamps burned down to nothing.” I really liked it but few chapter in the middle they were boring!!But I'm so excited because now I have a team!!So we have Mal(childhood friend- current lover), the Darkling(handsome-evil guy) and Nikolai(Pirate-Prince)..It's not love triangle anymore.
She loves Mal there is no doubt about that but she has feelings for the Darkling and Nikolai.
Not because I knew anything about him going into this book other than the fact that everyone loved him but because he was soooo entertaining and likeable that I couldn’t imagine another character being better than him.
Maybe I should have talked about Alina first because I mean she is the main character but come on Nikolai stole the show on this one.
I don’t dislike her, she is a likable character and she really grew into herself and her power throughout this book.
Idk why someone like Nikolai or even the ancient fucking powerful ass Darkling would have feelings for her.
And it’s all thanks to this book.After being vaguely disappointed by  Shadow and Bone, I tried to keep my expectations low as I continued on with the sequel.
Where this book lacked action, it made up for in the time spent with the characters.
I feel like I spend half my time actually reading this book and the other half studying the map because I’m honestly so intrigued by this world now.
I trusted that this would happen as these books go on, but I’m so beyond relieved that I was finally able to connect to Bardugo’s writing style.
how will I ever fully appreciate the Grishaverse if I’m not loving how it’s written?
“There are no others like us, Alina. And there never will be.” 3.5 ⭐Though I am enjoying this series, I’m not finding them to be as amazing as all the hype makes them seem. Alina has taken her place as the leader of the 2nd army, and preparations are under way to go to war against The Darkling. Meanwhile, Mal is feeling less and less useful, and constantly jealous of other men who speak to Alina. This girl is supposedly ‘plain looking’ yet at one point she has 4 different men after her?! Like s
“There are no others like us, Alina.
Meanwhile, Mal is feeling less and less useful, and constantly jealous of other men who speak to Alina.
This girl is supposedly ‘plain looking’ yet at one point she has 4 different men after her?!
I enjoy reading about the different types of Grisha and Alina’s growth with her powers.
Overall I will read the last book just to see what happens, but I’m not particularly bothered with this one.
Maybe because I’m getting tired of the whole “plain girl with special powers is the only one able to save the world.
The first book was a surprise for me - I had low expectations as I was basically reading this trilogy to read the Six of Crows duology.I was excited to continue and this book fell short. 4 guys, 1 "oh so plain" girl... you get it.I still love the magic system and the world and I'm hoping things will get better in the third book!
Like Mal.I really enjoyed the first book, but this series can go in two directions and I’m not sure I like one of them.
(Ugh, I loved it.) Then the ending of the first book happened and challenged everything she thought she knew about the Grisha.
Like I know The Darkling is awful and malicious but HE’S SO INTERESTING.
He seems to truly believe he’s doing the best thing (even if I’m not certain what that is yet) and the way he unnerves everyone was fantastic.There was more world-building here, which I thought was lacking in the first book.
Plot movement is almost totally sacrificed in favor of propping up events that are sure to come in book 3.
I fear that this book shuttled his character straight off into "irredeemable bad guy" territory permanently, when I'm hoping for something a bit more unconventional as an ending for his story.
Basically, I'd like Alina to pull a T-Swift and bring him back around in book three.
Like I said though, I have a good feeling about book 3, so I'm going to keep my hopes up as Chelsea and I move into the final installment next week!
◇As I've probably mentioned in my review for Shadow and Bone, Mal is such a handsome little fellow and "just about everyone's type." All the girls fall for him and no one can resist his handsomeness.
Like, we get it you're handsome, Alina and other girls can't resist you, his handsomeness was mentioned in the first book and now again several times here.
I DON'T EVEN GIVE A FUCK ABOUT THE PLOT OR ANYTHING, THIS BOOK COULD HAVE GOTTEN SUCH A HIGHER MOTHER FUCKING RATING IF MAL AND ALINA NEVER HAPPENED.
※Bullshit #2: The love squareWell, I have officially read a book where not one, not two, but three guys have a thing for the same fucking girl.
It starts with pirates.There's an unconventional dragon.Alina realizes that she must find a certain 3 amplifiers to defeat the Darkling.With 2 amplifiers so far, her powers are heightened.And a climactic battle at the palace ensues. My other reviews for The Grisha series:  • Shadow and Bone• Ruin and Rising• Six of Crows
3.5 stars, but rounded up because of one glorious moment close to the end.   Because darkness never dies  Putting this book on hold for close to two months was probably a mistake.It was so hard to get back into it, and it just made the middle section drag out for what felt like an eternity.
Well I guess I'm about to find out who that NIKOLAI dude is that EVERYONE keeps telling me about.
“Watch yourself, Nikolai,” Mal said softly. “Princes bleed just like other men.”Nikolai plucked an invisible piece of dust from his sleeve. “Yes,” he said. “They just do it in better clothes.”  I'd like to say Siege and Storm's higher rating is because of the better writing and Alina's exploration of her dark side, but who am I kidding? They're for Nikolai, aka Prince Perfect, aka "sweetheart or handsome", aka Thief of Whatever's Left of My Heart After Kaz Fucking Brekker Raided It.He's the per
I'd like to say Siege and Storm's higher rating is because of the better writing and Alina's exploration of her dark side, but who am I kidding?
Go fuck yourself, Mal. Alina's power is a part of her now and you can't cut it out like ex-friends in a photo.
I understand what Bardugo is getting at, the antithesis to the Darkling's lust for power and Nikolai's ambition, the only boy who loves Alina for who she is, not her power.
Oh, look, another opportunity to express my approval of Nikolai and Alina.In terms of plot, Siege and Storm suffers from slight Second Book Syndrome.
(Sorry, Mal.) Unfortunately, loving the Darkling is a bit like being “Team Voldemort”: He’s the bad guy and we're supposed to hate him and I know that, in the long run, he probably doesn’t stand a chance.
Why did he have to turn out to be evil.) Now that I've finished Siege&Storm (view spoiler)[ I don't like him as much anymore.
(hide spoiler)]I still like Alina, though I didn’t love her as much in Siege&Storm as I did in Shadow&Bone.
If you liked Shadow&Bone, you will love this book as well.
Several times it's shown just how capable a leader Nikolai is, my favorite in particular being (view spoiler)[when he calls out Vasily for falling into the trap set by the Darkling and completely fucking up everything Alina and Nikolai were working toward at the Little Palace.
Multiple times I saw Alina disregarding and reasoning away her own feelings in order to appease Mal. EW.This kid is supposedly super well acclimated to change, fits in everywhere, a natural at many things.
He's jealous of Nikolai, he's jealous of the Darkling, he's jealous that Alina is actually important to a great cause & that means they can't spend *quality time* together strolling down by the lake or some shit...
