https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7896.Early_Candlelight
I worked at Fort Snelling... This book is terrible due to it's horrible historical inaccuracies and the fact that it is one of the dullest books I have ever picked up. Do not bother.
Loved this book! Historical fiction set in and around Minnesota's Fort Snelling in the 1820s. Lively characters, compelling storylines, history worked in without beating the reader over the head, and a satisfying romance. Works for me. I've been rereading Lovelace's children's books (also 5-star caliber), prior to visiting MN, so I'm delighted and not surprised to discover she can spin a wonderful adult novel as well. If you liked Mrs. Mike, you'll probably enjoy Early Candlelight!(Note: if you have uber-sensitive political-correctness antennae, you better deduct a star right off the top.)
Such a pure, beautiful story.
Maud Hart Lovelace has a gift for painting with words.
She can capture the essence of a moment with incredible simplicity and bring the reader into the world of the character with deceptively effortless prose.I grew up reading the Betsy-Tacy books.
Early Candlelight is different - it seemed to me to be a bit more focused on the actual historical events surrounding Fort Snelling.
I had trouble getting into the book at first and was confused by the many characters, but it was totally worth trudging through a few chapters to get to the good stuff!It's a sweet, interesting story.
It helps to know a little early Minnesota History before tackling this romance/historical fiction, but even this knowledge is not enough to make Early Candlelight enjoyable. Written in the 1920’s about the 1830’s, it is hard to read in 2018 without cringing at the racism and sexism. Granted, Lovelace draws on first person sources and describes real historical figures, but it doesn’t feel realistic an any meaningful way. Time would be better spent reading the author’s Betsy-Tacy series.
This was a clever story, set against the backdrop of 1830s Minnesota. I enjoyed the story, the flowery prose was a bit hard to follow at times.
3.5* for well-written historical fiction with an excellent sense of place - but one I wouldn't read again, as it was honestly a rather sad story.
I’ve been keen on reading nostalgic old fashioned books as of late, so I picked up Early Candlelight last week.Ms. Lovelace explores life on the Minnesota frontier at the turn of the 19th century.
So, I loved her writing – I loved the story – I loved the characters that she created – I loved her meticulous descriptions into early Minnesota frontier life – I just was so let down by the ending.I’m still a huge fan, and can’t wait to read the other books I have, I just wish this one would have met my expectations.
I do agree that this started slowly, and it took me a bit of time to figure out who the important characters were going to be.
I came to like the character of Delia very much and I thought MHL was able, by the end of the book, to really get inside her and describe her emotions very well.
Some of the other characters were less well developed and I have to say that I didn't find Jasper Page all that wonderful, but at least he appreciated Delia :-)I also loved Maud's descriptions of the landscape and the changing seasons.
The story was good, even if a bit confusing, and I found myself relating to a major character.
I'm sure she didn't intend to sound racist, but that kind of language helps explain why nobody reads the book anymore.
I think all the geographical references would make more sense to someone who lives in Minnesota.
I don't like to have my reading interrupted by frequent trips to the map to understand what's going on in the story.
The book itself would hold more appeal for someone who lives (or used to live) in Minnesota.
It especially grabbed me as we headed to the end of Book I and into Book II.
then came the ending, and I found it just anticlimactic.
I think I read in someone else's review [Melissa's, perhaps?:] that we didn't NEED to see how the relationship betw Jasper Page and Dee actually came to that moment where they knew they would be together, or else that we didn't need to see the actual wedding.
For me, it was a let-down, not getting that reward at the end.
moments of Betsy-Tacy turn-of-phrases occasionally, to make me smile...
ultimately not quite up to her Betsy-Tacy standard, though.
I'm glad I read this, but I don't see myself ever re-reading it.
The beginning was a little slow and Narcisse gave me a pain.
Or maybe I should say that the DuGays' reaction to Narcisse gave me a pain.
I'm glad that they could support him through his bipolar episodes, but couldn't one of them lose their temper with him just once?
It reminded me of Maud's early short stories with their satisfying but pat endings.
All that said, it's always fun to find the essence of Maud in her non-BT writings and I certainly learned a lot about the place and period.
I didn't find the author of the Betsy-Tacy books here except for occasional glimpses in descriptive passages.
The writing was choppy and difficult to read, as if she was trying to hard to impress the reader with her skill as a writer.
I struggled to follow her and if it was any other author but MHL I would not have bothered to finish the book.
Names like those take more than a few days to become natural sounding.
2+ stars.When I finished I was glad I read it.
It had a satisfactory, if not predictable ending but unfortunately by then I didn't like the hero!
But the Maud connection put it on my to-read list.Glad the focus was more on the people surrounding Fort Snelling than Fort life itself, and having visited Fort Snelling last summer, I was able to picture the landscape.
None of the characters really captured by attention, but something pulled me along.Definitely not one of the better of the genre--and it really paled in comparison to All This and Heaven Too (I would place both books in the same general genre).
There were glimpses of the Maud to come, which I enjoyed, but you could tell this was written early in her career.
This is one of my favorite books ever. It would make a great movie: visually stunning scenery, many attractive young men and young women in love and a female protaganist an audience can't help but adore. It is "Pride and Prejudice" meets "Last of the Mohicans" with enough rich historical details woven into it to make you feel like your are really learning something. I also love this book because it is written by one of my favorite authors, Maude Hart Lovelace. This book made me proud of my American heritage and the work I do as a woman.
This is a completely different story from Lovelace's usual offerings. It's historical fiction set at Old Fort Snelling in Minnesota in the 1830s. Originally written in 1929, the feel is different from modern day hist. fict. - a bit more romantic and innocent perhaps. But it is a vivid and compelling portrayal of life on the river - French fur traders, Native Americans, danger and uncertainty in a beautiful, wild, land. I recommend it to anyone interested in this time period in the United States.
I finished it! Technically this is a re-read, but I did not remember much at all, except that I liked it much better this time. Historical fiction about the early days of frontier Minnesota, Fort Snelling, and the founding of St. Paul. Written by my favorite author. It's very detailed and full of description, but there is also a good love story and good characters.
While the attitude towards Native Americans demonstrated in this book is a bit disconcerting for the modern reader, Lovelace did her research well. She co-wrote this with her husband, but much of the research behind it was her work. It is "just" an historical romance, but worth the read for those interested in the region and the period.
Srsly it's like if Betsy were a Pioneer girl, canoeing supplies back and forth between the armies at Fort Snelling and the native American communities down the river. Also falling in love with the wild benefactor and socialite who came to support and invest in his Minnehaha land.
It started slowly, but about 1/3 into the book, I didn't want to put it down. Young Deedee DuGay is smitten with Jasper Page who is impossibly older even if he wasn't a social notch or three above her.
Sweet novel about Indians and settlers in 1830's Minnesota. Because I love this author's later Betsy-Tacy books, it was fun to see her early attempts at writing. But I probably wouldn't have read it (or stuck with it) otherwise.
From time to time caught a glimpse of charming prose that I love in Betsy- Tacy. Young adult fiction was obviously her calling.
A charming historical novel, appropriate for Young Adult readers as well as adults. Just what you would expect from the marvelous Maud Hart Lovelace.
Wow...horrible old-fashioned writing! I struggled through it. The story had some highlights and a couple good characters, but there was so much to get through before you could even enjoy those!
very enjoyable read--one of those books that's way better than you expected
Probably her most critically acclaimed book.
I was so surprised how much I loved this book. Maud was a terrific author. You will get lost in it.
click link for review http://william1978.quazen.com/shoppin...
If you are a fan of Maude, then this a must read.
