https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1617.Night
I got mad at my mom when she made me go to bed on time, I complained if I didn’t like what we were having for dinner and I argued about what I was and wasn’t allowed to watch on TV.I thought I knew about WWII.
Mostly I was angry at the world and at humanity as a whole but I unfairly turned some of that on my father.
Like my father, I have no answers.And that, I believe, is why many modern humans will never really be able to comprehend the things that happen in this book.
"Our lives no longer belong to us alone; they belong to all those who need us desperately." - Elie Wiesel
It wasn't going for the kick to the gut reaction, more of a confused, inconceivable retelling of day to day events, and this---this--- is what really makes me shudder and be at a loss for words.
Women to the right!” Eight words spoken quietly, indifferently, without emotion.
Yet that was the moment when I left my mother.”Words.
That in that one moment I had created a history for this man.
And in the Preface to the New Translation, he says:  “And yet still I wonder: Have I used the right words?' For me, yes.
Upon completion of this book, my mind is as numb as if I had experienced this suffering myself.
And yet, I read this book from the comfort of a warm home and a full stomach.
The strength and raw endurance of the human spirit.
Read this book even if you think you have read enough of the Holocaust and of pain and suffering.
Every book that I have read about the Holocaust offers something new including this one.
they are must reads in this genre are of course Number the Stars 
This book is a hard, righteous slap in the conscience to everyone of good will in the world and should stand as a stark reminder of both: (1) the almost unimaginable brutality that we, as a species, are capable of; and (2) that when it comes to preventing or stopping similar kinds of atrocities or punishing those that seek to perpetrate such crimes, WE ARE OUR BROTHERS' KEEPERS and must take responsibility for what occurs "on our watch."This remarkable story is the powerful and deeply moving account of Ellie Wiesel's personal experiences as a Hungarian Jew who is sent with his entire family to the infamous Nazi concentration camps of Auschwitz and later Buchenwald.
Elie goes on to chronicle his subsequent attempts not to be separated from his father and the horrors he was forced to witness and endure.
The first time I read Night by Eli Wiesel I was in an eighth grade religious school class.
Upon hearing that Nobel Laureate Eli Wiesel passed away recently I thought now was as good of a time as any to reread his award winning account of surviving the Holocaust.
Although only 120 pages in length, Wiesel's memoir of life in the concentration camps is one of the most powerful pieces of literature that most people will ever read.
Eli Wiesel brought Holocaust awareness to many people and earned the Nobel Peace Prize in 1986.
My eyes had opened and I was alone, terribly alone in a world without God, without man.
I waited to read it, unsure what I could possibly gain from reading another account of the evil existing among our fellow human beings – I will become enraged and depressed.
I can’t change history.
But then I discovered that my son was assigned this book as part of his summer reading for a high school English class.
My son needs to read this book.
His children need to read this book someday.
I need to read this book.
Everyone should read this book at least once.
L'uomo è più buono e misericordioso di dio.Deluso da Adamo ed Eva, dio li scacciò dal paradiso.
Deluso da Sodoma, fece piovere dal cielo il fuoco e lo zolfo.
Per non farsi raggiungere dagli uomini che costruivano la torre che doveva raggiungere il cielo e portarli più vicino a lui, confuse le loro lingue e s'inventò Babele.
69).Un dio che si manifesta per mettere alla prova, vediamo se siete in grado di dominare i cattivi istinti e di uccidere il satana che è in voi, castigando spietatamente gli uomini (p.
Yet that is exactly what I'm going to do, for while Night is a chilling account of the Holocaust and the dehumanisation and brutalisation of the human spirit under extreme circumstances, the fact remains that I've read better ones.
In his introduction to the new English translation of Night, Wiesel mentions that the book as it is today is a severely abridged version of a much longer Yiddish original called And the World Remained Silent.
I think I can see why the original wasn't published (quite apart from the fact that the world wasn't ready yet for concentration camp literature, the few quotes provided in the introduction make for heavy reading).
5 stars......I am at a loss for words.......upon finishing this memoir, I am so full of intense emotion yet I feel empty at the same time......This is a DEEPLY moving and powerful book about the author's experience in concentration camps and the atrocities that happened during the Holocaust.
Words cannot describe how I truly feel about what I read on these pages.
It is impossible for us, as readers, to truly fathom this piece of history, unless we lived it.
I hope everyone takes the time to read this 120 page memoir at some point in their lives.
Όπως αναφέρεται στο επίμετρο αυτού του συγκλονιστικού βιβλίου όταν πρωτοεκδόθηκε το 1956 στην Αργεντινή (στη μητρική γλώσσα του συγγραφέα) είχε τίτλο:«Και ο κόσμος σιωπούσε.....»Θεωρώ πως δεν θα μπορούσε να υπάρξει πιο αντιπροσωπευτικός τίτλος για την ιστορία του βιβλίου αλλά και για την παγκόσμια ανθρώπινη ιστορία.
Οι ναζί σπαταλούν χρόνο και δυνάμεις για να λυτρώσουν τον κόσμο απο το Κακό.
Ο Βιζέλ διηγείται την δύναμη του κακού και τα βάσανα των θυμάτων που έπληξαν για πάντα την ανθρώπινη συνείδηση.
Ποια η διαφορά των ναζί απο τους αναλφάβητους σε κάποια πολιτεία της Αμερικής που προσεύχονται στο θεό την ίδια ώρα που λιώνουν στην εκμετάλλευση νέγρους στη Γουατεμάλα.
Terrifying. I have read two books that described a nightmare, painted a picture of hell. The second was Blood Meridian, or the Evening Redness in the West by Cormac McCarthy and first is Night. I still think of this book sometimes and shudder and I realize that evil is never too far buried in us. The scene where the line of doomed prisoners splits in two with Mengela conducting, a perverse parody of the last judgment seems ripped from Dante.
I teach this book yearly, but my students seemed distant from the true reality of the story.
When I use the Holocaust Museum's interactive of Lola Rein's dress, it hits them.
I also tell the story of my friend, Ida, and her "no grandparents".
The sharing of my friend with my beloved grandmother and grandfather was one of the true blessings of my life and our lives were enriched through the immense addition to our family.
Bless this with a read and light a candle in our darkness.
Also, go and view the dress at the Holocaust Museum website - you will leave changed.
And in a substantive new preface, Elie reflects on the enduring importance of Night and his lifelong, passionate dedication to ensuring that the world never forgets man's capacity for inhumanity to man.Words cannot begin to comprehend the plight of suffering and cruelty revealed in this book that had me on the verge of breaking into sobs page after page, so I'll let the writing speak for itself by sharing moments and passages that cannot be forgotten in time:This here is exactly why I refuse to participate with anything regarding Germany; the world is complicit in its indifference.
Elie Wiesel's raw written voice commemorates all that must never be forgotten.My arms gathered with goosebumps at that because the date I was reading this book was April 11th.I'll end this review by sharing my favorite Elie Wiesel quote:“The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference.
The first, because unless you have experienced it for yourself, you will never be able to realize the full extent of what happened in the Second World War with all its different facets and emotions, and the latter, because with Elie Wiesel, a remarkable man has left this planet who fought for memorizing the Holocaust, who fought against violence, suppression and racism.Perhaps you will not find the most eloquent, the most artful language in this work of literature, but that's nothing you should expect to find in a book dealing with something as frightening, as horrifying, as real as the Holocaust.
It is shocking and sad, but worth reading because of the power of Wiesel's witnessing one of humanity's darkest chapters and his confession on how it changed him.In the new introduction to the ebook version I read, Wiesel talked about the difficulty he had putting words to his experience.
There's something powerful about reading books in their original form.Wiesel closes his introduction with his reasons for writing this book: "For the survivor who chooses to testify, it is clear: his duty is to bear witness for the dead and for the living.

I’ve been meaning to read Night for years and finally picked it up shortly after hearing about Eli Wiesel’s death.
Yet it’s the reasons that Night belongs outside of criticism that make it so important.
For that reason, I believe it should be required reading for everyone.Night is short and the writing is simple.
In the preface of my edition, Wiesel writes:“There are those who tell me that I survived in order to write this text.
But after reading that beautiful quote, I would rather close with this photo of the day he won the Nobel Peace Prize, which illustrates the knowledge he gave the world rather than the darkness he endured.
A poignant and unforgettable 5 star read.
“Human suffering anywhere concerns men and women everywhere.” ― Elie Wiesel, NightIt's been years since I've read this book, but as my son needed to read it for school, I decided to read it with him.
Night, which is one man's tragic yet remarkable survival of the Holocaust, is a powerful, shocking, heartbreaking, poignant, yet triumph-of-the-soul biography.
This book speaks to humanity about the atrocities man is capable of committing.
If you haven't read Night yet, I highly encourage you to read it.
This is one of those life-changing books everyone should read.
there are simply no words which i could write that would do this book the justice it deserves. i am speechless. 5 stars
This is not a review.
I am not worthy to review this book.
This is my third time reading Night, having read it as a requirement in both high school and college.
I picked it up at the library because it was upright on a shelf and I noticed it had a new preface by the author.
I have read that preface four times so far.
The PREFACE is that important, that thought-provoking.
I am speechless.
The story is a heartbreaking, terrifying account of unimaginable suffering that must be read and remembered.
5 stars every time.
I regret not having read this earlier, this is a true account of Elie Wiesel as a young Jewish boy who has no foreseeable knowledge and understanding of what was around the corner when his family are forced to flee from their home in Romania, and the unknown horrors that awaited them.
Even though I've read and have studied many of these stories of the Holocaust and of the concentration camps in Auschwitz, I was still surprised how shocked I was by the atrocities and how it was written made me shed so many more tears and emotions that I didn't know could still exist.
Night, was possibly one of the worst books I've ever read.
Yeah, so it was written by a holocaust survivor.
It doesn't make it well written.
From a literary standpoing, purely.
Maybe it was better when it was written in German?
Maybe he should have let a "professional" writer, write it for him.
I'm not bashing him, or his writing.
His writing not him.
Too me I felt as if it was written by a 10 year old, who repeats everything.
And his literary inspiration.
But maybe we just shouldn't be required to read it.
Maybe I'm just wrong?
As he says in his preface to the new edition, we all have a "moral obligation to try and prevent the enemy from enjoying one last victory by allowing his crimes to be erased from human memory." As some people drink to forget, I read to remember.Eliezer Wiesel's memoir sits with Anne Frank's diary at the top of the list of must-read books about the holocaust.
While Frank puts a human face on those who died, Wiesel, as one who witnessed and endured the horrors of the holocaust takes the stand and testifies with heartbreaking eloquence of all that he saw and suffered.
If Anne Frank was 13 when Germans came to Netherlands, Elie Wiessel was 15 when the same thing happened in Romania.
Anne Frank's diary, first published as The Diary of a Young Girl in 1950, was written in young girl's language while she was on a hiding while Night by Elie Wiesel tells the experience of a 15-y/o boy inside the concentration camps told later in the language of a 30-y/o man.
Of course, I am not expecting Wiesel to do ala Frank McCourt in Angela's Ashes, winning the Pulitzer and later be hounded by controversy that what he told in the story were exaggerated if not untrue.
Difficult to review.
Night is a brutal first-hand account of life in Auschwitz.
We’re all very familiar with the visuals of the journey in the cattle truck, the arrival in Auschwitz, the squalor and deprivations of life in the barracks, the selections.
Wiesel tells us with simple but supremely eloquent prose what effect these daily horrors had on the human soul.
Tells us, in effect, how low we can go, how even a son can kill his own father for a morsel of bread if subjected to inhumane treatment for long enough.
I’ll just say that probably everyone should read this short book.
I read this book once beforebut read it again yesterday---with the new preface by his wife Marion Wiesel. I did not plan on reading the whole thing--I just wanted to read the new Preface---but then while sitting around (with sick people in the house)--I just dived into the horror again.....(with expanded thoughts than in years pass).
Wiesel wrote in All Rivers Run to the Sea (1995) that he handed Turkov, a publisher of Yiddish texts, his only copy and that it was never returned, but also that he (Wiesel) "cut down the original manuscript from 862 pages to the 245 of the published Yiddish edition."Wiesel translated Un di Velt Hot Geshvign into French and sent it to François Mauriac.
In re-writing rather than simply translating Un di Velt Hot Geshvign, Wiesel replaced an angry survivor who regards "testimony as a refutation of what the Nazis did to the Jews," with one "haunted by death, whose primary complaint is directed against God ...".
At the core, Night is an intensely personal story, one you do not have to be Jewish to understand.
Because as you read all the horrors undergone, you always remember that you are Jewish, that you are one of those they targeted, one of those put into the camps, one of those whom, when the next Hitler comes, will be at risk.
I can understand why Wiesel says that, after all the books he has written, Night still holds a special place in his heart and soul; it is probably the same place in which he carved a niche for the story in the heart of every reader.
In 1944, at the age of fifteen, Elie Wiesel, his parents and three sisters, were transported from Sighet to the Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland.
This book is hard to read, as are most books on this horror of the 20th century, but this is first hand account and reminds us of what human ignorance, hatred, and bigotry are capable of, and don't think for one minute it could never happen again because it can.Elie's two older sisters, Hilda and Bea, both survived the concentration camps and all were later reunited.
