https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5346.The_Last_Juror
Endearing read! dramatic storyline of unfolding in the stew of racial prejudices,economic disparity and corruption in a small community concerning a case...good from start to finish and well written (paperback!)
This was my second Grisham novel, but I was disappointed.
The storyline was fine, I enjoyed the character of Willie, who saves the local newspaper in Mississippi in the 1970's, then begins to cover a sensational case of the brutal rape and murder of a young single mum.
I enjoyed the family of Callie, and the dynamics between her and the young and inexperienced journalist/editor Willie.
Mr Grisham writes well though, and as in my first book The Client, it's evident he knows his legal stuff, and you do feel in safe experienced 'legal' hands.
One of Grisham's best I'd say.
The author capitalized on what he does best, that's the legal part, then added a lot of heart to it.
It combines the thrill and drama of the scenes in the courtroom with the heart and soul and lives of its many colorful characters.The story spans a decade, the 70's, a period of transformation and awakening, especially in the deep south.
It talks about taking risks, commitment, growing up.
All of these, Mr. Grisham cooked up, and peppered it with the legal excitement that he's become a master of, and the result is just very tasteful.
Not really a courtroom drama or legal thriller; instead this novel focuses on the media in a small town in Mississippi. Willie Traynor takes over the local newspaper in Clanton, Mississippi. The previous owner had apparently gone mad and was basically filling his pages with nothing but obituaries. The residents had grown used to this and adapted to it to the extent that they wanted nothing more than for their personal obituary to feature prominently. Traynor slowly sets about changing the cultu
He uses his newspapers to write some left-wing articles (about the Vietnam war) but the reader is left with a feeling that he doesn't really feel as strongly about the subjects as he is attempting to convey through his writing.Similar to the last Grisham book I read, I kept waiting for the drama or excitement but it didn't really happen and I felt let down by the ending.
That said, I still had to read to the end which is Grisham's specialty; drawing a reader in so they have to know what happens.There is sexual content in this and it is a little too graphic whilst dealing with the rape.
And the descriptions of the food!
One section I marked to go back to is Miss Callie's pot roast.
It sounded good enough that I'm going to try it.Here's the excerpt:"As usual, I confessed that I'd never had a pot roast, so Miss Callie described the recipe and the preparation in detail.
Take a beef rump roast, leave the fat on it, place it in the bottom of the pot, then cover it with new potatoes, onions, turnips, carrots, and beets; add some salt, pepper and water, put it in the oven on slow bake, and wait five hours.
Talk about comfort food.
Nice plot, fast paced, smooth writing although I felt the ending of the book was quite abrupt and rushed up but nevertheless an enjoyable read. It isn't John Grisham best work but still a great read.
In 1970, 23-year-old Willie Traynor moves to the small city of Clanton, Mississippi, and buys the local newspaper, which has recently gone bankrupt.
The story vaguely meanders around the trial and subsequent fallout over the next several years, but mostly it's about Willie's life in Clanton and the people he meets.
It wasn't a bad book - the characters were definitely believable and often entertaining - but from the very beginning I wondered how Grisham would manage to find enough plot to fill the 350 pages.
In the end, if you enjoy reading about smalltown Southern life, you'll like this.
Although I read this book quite a few years ago I still remember how much I enjoyed reading it.I had read only a couple of Grisham's books up to that point and this one sounded like one that I would really enjoy reading and I did.
I finished it over a weekend up at the cabin in just a few sittings.There didn't seem to be as much courtroom time and I enjoyed the focus on the story in the small southern town.
The characters are quite believable and the descriptions are vivid and understandable especially for the time in small town America.
Grisham kept my interest throughout the book.
رواية ممتعة ، تشدك بتفاصيلها الجميلة ..قرية صغيرة تحدث فيها جريمة مفزعة ، يحاول البطل يكشف غموض القضية ويحاول يعرف من المجرم ..أعجبني فيها كفاح البطل ، شلون كون مستقبله الوظيفي من الصفر ..حماسة الشباب اللي عنده وروح المغامرة ..
Endearing read! dramatic storyline of unfolding in the stew of racial prejudices,economic disparity and corruption in a small community concerning a case...good from start to finish and it's well written (paperback!)
The first notable thing about this story is that while there is some courtroom time, it is NOT about a court case or a lawyer, etc, like many of Grisham's books.
Each character in this book is a story finely woven.
When I finished the story, I actually left the radio off for the rest of my ride home just so I could think about what a wonderful story it was and how much I enjoyed it.Following Grisham's other non-courtroom drama's, specifically A Painted House, I see his talent is truly in character development.
Every two years or so I get the urge to read a Grisham novel in the hopes that it will be as good as his early work, but the last three books I've read have been a big disappointment (The Last Juror, The Broker and The King of Torts)It's fine if Grisham wants to write something different than a legal thriller, but I wish his publishers didn't advertise this book as if it was.
I thought the ending was ridiculous, both finding out who was killing the jurors and when Callie died....just awful.
ON THE OTHER HAND I DON'T PUT THEM OUT ON ANY FEED.This may be my favorite Grisham novel of all!The law provides a layer to the story -- as to criminal sentencing, parole, business transactions, elections, divorce, probate -- but I was surprised it was not the key framework.Instead, this is the tale of a dying weekly newspaper and the brash young Northern-educated Memphis journalist who buys it, turns it around, and during the process sinks roots into the tiny community of Clanton, Mississipi.At its core, it is the story of journalist Will Traynor (whose name shifts to "Willie" in Clanton) and his friendship with a dignified, spiritual black woman named Miss Callie (who's an awesome cook and, therefore, not surprisingly obese, as well as a scrupulous recorder of typographical errors in Willie's paper, and a beloved icon to family and friends.) Willie crosses a huge racial divide to get to know her.Along the way, a brutal murder happens.
I think this was the most overrated - over written- over plotted of any Grisham I have ever read.
I liked Willie Traynor, the protagonist and Narrator, who bought a small town weekly newspaper and became a 23 year old celebrity in the town.
He sidetracked to more than was necessary about racism in Mississippi in the 70's.
He sidetracked about Viet Nam. Knowing the history of the Padgetts did nothing at all to further the plot.
And in much the same way that Willie Traynor got tired of writing and sold the paper, I expect Grisham got tired of writing and before we got to the last juror, Miss Callie died.
This time A young mother is raped and killed by a member of one of Ford County's most reclusive and mysterious families, Danny Paggitt is sentenced to life in prison, but before he is carted off to The State Pen, he threatens to kill every single member of the jury… Will he follow through on his threats?Grisham tries a lot of different story telling devices in this book, it's the first time I can remember him using a first person narrator.
Fortunately, Grisham uses it to introduce us to the various characters who inhabit Ford County and really dig into their lives, as well as the issues they faced in a rapidly changing south.
I failed to find it, but I wanted to read something else by John Grisham and picked up The Last Juror.As it turned out, the plot of the novel was indeed eyeball grabbing.
Traynor has a rich grandmother who is prevailed upon to invest in the paper, and Willie finds himself, at 23 years of age, owner of a small-town newspaper.
I neglected my housework in a bid to turn the next page and find out what happened next.Like the hero of the novel, John Grisham also lived in deep south in a small town.
After working for years as a successful lawyer, John Grisham took to writing novels.
في العام 1970 وصل الشاب الشمالي ويلي إلى كلانتون في ولاية المسيسيبي .مع كثير من الطموحات ..وخلال عام
Fand die als Tiefstpunkt bewertete Bruderschaft ganz witzig und auch den ungnädig aufgenommenen Richter nicht soo schlecht. Und da mich die Ausgangsbasis des Romans interessierte, griff ich zu. War ein glatter Griff ins Klo, absolute Gutmenschenkacke mit katastrophalen Charakterbeschreibungen. Hatte nicht unbedingt Nervenkitzel bis zur letzten Seite erwartet, aber die Liste hat das Niveau einer Schülerarbeit. Allerdings atmet das Werk eines Anfängers wenigstens ein gewisses Maß an Enthusiasmus und Engagement. Davon ist trotz aller überdeutlich zum Ausdruck gebrachten guten Absichten nichts zu spüren - diese Liste gehört in die Tonne.
Touching, historical, justice, law. It was a great read and I loved every moment. I was hooked and had to keep going because I wanted to know the end of it all. You connect with the characters and feel like they are a part of you. Highly recommend!
The only suspect is Danny Padgitt, a member of the infamous Padgitt family, a criminal family based right out of Ford County.Danny Padgitt is found guilty of the rape and murder, but somehow gets out of the death sentence.
He finds out that all the jury members that have been killed voted no on the death sentence for Danny Padgitt.
They promise a story about a town that when its local paper changes owners to a young outsider, the paper is almost doomed till a brutal murder happens and the paper is saved.
That’s not what the story is about at all.This has been on my shelf for almost 2 years now, nagging and intimidating me.
Because the story wasn’t about them, it was about the town, its racial discrimination and it’s young new owner of the paper.
It’s about a murder that shakes that town and intrigues the young reporter, Willie, and he takes it upon himself to investigate and uncover all its secrets.
I enjoyed reading this book, even though for the most part I felt like I was reading a different book from the one described by the back cover.
It advertised The Last Juror as a thriller, and so I expected more action, perhaps some exciting game of cat and mouse between our protagonist and the antagonist, but what I got is a character-centric book that has a water-downed version of the elements of a good element.
That's not so say I didn't like this book.
I loved the Ruffin family, and their friendship with Willie was heartwarming.
That's what the book is, really: heartwarming.
This book reminded me of people in Key West where I lived for four years.
Key West had the same kind of "small town" atmosphere like Ford County in this book, and its people were as colorful as people in this book.
Rather, it is a book about people in Ford County, including a gruesome murder, its trial, and after-story, in 1970s.
Part 1 of this story is mainly developed around a murder and its trial, and then part 2 is more focused on people in Ford County in a wide range.
Ok I just recently came back to my love of literature since my Harry Potter craze & I immediately stumble upon this book from my cousin.
I approached it with an Open mind & one heart.
I flipped the pages each day and with each depth i fell in Love with the Plot setting, the theme and overall the characters.
Also the Author Tackles Race and Discrimination so candidly.So I ain't no expert on Literature but if you like to be transported back-in-time this books is for you
This is my first Grisham novel and I absolutely loved it!Set during 1970 in Mississippi, Willie Traynor a 23 year old dropout takes ownership of a falling newspaper.One of the first items he's set to cover is a trial involving a rape and murder of a young mum. The book really sets the tone of the era, Grisham expertly creates a vivid setting where the characters come to life.I'm certainly intend to read more of he's bibliography.
2.5………The reason I gave this a lower rating is because this just wasn’t what I thought it was going to be. Going by the title and the synopsis, I expected this to be about……..well…….the last juror. The back of the audio said: “…..Tried before a packed courthouse in Clanton, Mississippi, Danny Padgitt threatened revenge against the jurors should they dare convict him. Though  found guilty and sentenced to life in prison, Padgitt managed to get himself paroled after nine years, returning to Ford C
2.5………The reason I gave this a lower rating is because this just wasn’t what I thought it was going to be.
Though 	found guilty and sentenced to life in prison, Padgitt managed to get himself	paroled after nine years, returning to Ford County to begin his revenge.”I think only 30% (okay, I’ll even up it to 40%) is about that.
Grisham delves into racism, religion and politics during those 9 years and even when Padgitt gets out of prison the story tends to drift.Other than that I don’t have a problem with Grisham’s style of writing.
The book actually started off great and I thought I was going to be in for a really good book.
John Grisham is a favorite suspense author because he writes succinctly and develops the plot beautifully.
My mom recommended I read this a few years ago and I really enjoyed it. I found my hardcover copy yesterday after cleaning, and was compelled to leave this review!
Ah, Grisham. How I love thee. Here's the ways: 1) The right amount and type of details. I tried to stretch and read an Agatha Christie instead, but bailed. Christie packs in too many characters and too little detail. 2) The balance of human interest vs. moving the plot forward. 3) The inherent civics lesson incorporated within. 4) The same rush as watching an intelligent thriller.
Great audiobook for my road trip!
