https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39999.The_Boy_in_the_Striped_Pajamas
The German boy, raised in Berlin, who thinks that Der Führer is "The Fury" and Auschwitz is "Out-With," despite being corrected several times and seeing it written down?
Or even the author's refusal to ever use the word "Auschwitz," in an effort to "make this book about any camp, to add a universality to Bruno's experience."That last is from an interview with the author that appears at the end of the audio version.
In this case, though, I feel like, due to the fictionalizing of it, the book is far enough removed from Auschwitz that it's okay to be negative about the book without being insensitive about the Holocaust.
"The Boy in the Striped Pajamas" would easily top my list of "Worst Books about the Holocaust."I am writing as one who was there -- I was once myself a boy in striped pajamas and am a survivor of six German concentration camps.
This book is so ignorant of historical facts about concentration camps that it kicks the history of the Holocaust right in the teeth.John Boyne's premise is that the nine-year old son of the commandant of Auschwitz, bored with his isolated life, takes walks to the fence surrounding this infamous camp and meets there a nine-year old inmate who is on the other side of the fence.
3.5*I didn't love this, but I did appreciate the fact that it had a very powerful message (and an ending I wasn't expecting at all). My feelings were definitely changed by the fact that the author describes the story as a fable. The abstractness makes a lot more sense in that way. Definitely an unforgettable read, nonetheless!
Insipid And Smarmy: this book was not meant for kids to read.
It's meant for adults who know about the Holocaust already, so they can read it and sigh over the precious innocent widdle children's adorable misunderstanding of the horrible events surrounding them and how they still remain innocent and uuuuuuggggggghhhhh.
A nine-year-old boy growing up in a military household in Nazi Germany doesn't know what Heil Hitler means.All of this comes back to my original thesis: John Boyne thinks that children are idiots.
Look, Boyne: just because you don't understand anything (history, children, good writing) doesn't mean the rest of us are quite so useless.
Found this in a charity shop and couldn't put it down.So sad. Really loved it. Had no idea it would end how it did.
It won't fill your thoughts for many days or shock you; rather it will fill your LIFE and make you feel sick to the core of your being.Paul Friedlander, himself a survivor, recounts in his recent highly praised book the incident of 90 Jewish infants all under the age of five, orphaned after their parents were murdered in a mass shooting.These children were subjected to indescribable mistreatment for days.Then they were individually hanged.I read this with horror, revulsion and total disbelief.(ref.The Years of Extermination: Nazi Germany and the Jews, 1939 - 1945)Or the incident of the young German soldier participating in the evacuation of the patients in the hospital in the Warsaw Ghetto.
What a waste.Postscript 1Arising from Kelly Hawkins' review:Boyne says:I think the most frequent criticism of the book in the years since it’s been published is that Bruno is too naive.
Boyne (posting as John) responded to some of the criticisms:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Postscript 4, 14 May 2017In today's Sunday Times, the Prime Minister Theresa May was asked by a 19-year old in her constituency, "Has your thinking ever changed because of a novel?"She replied:"A book that brought something home to me was The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas.
The author John Boyne did a masterful job of depicting the setting in such vivid detail and exposing the events in a manner that I felt a constant emotional pull as the story unfolded and impending doom lingered on the horizon.I was recommended this novel a while back while reading The Book Thief, but after finishing that story and experiencing such deep sadness, I knew I couldn’t jump into another novel about the Holocaust for quite some time.
I was close to two of my grandmothers and one of my grandfathers, because they lived near my mother, brother, stepfather and I.The other couple, I only saw during summers.
But she never did, because she was far away and we had to stay for three whole months with our grandparents.I felt lonely.
One day, I met a little girl.
I had a friend.When my grandfather woke up from his nap and saw me playing with this girl, he was so angry I thought he would hurt her.
Why couldn’t I play with this little girl?
Lincoln's doctor's dog. An archaic reference in the publishing industry to the notion that the way to ensure a book is a bestseller is to write about Lincoln, dogs, or doctors. This prompted one author to title his book which is about publishing in the 1930s Lincoln’s Doctor’s Dog.- From www.metaphordogs.orgMaybe Lincoln, doctors and dogs have gone out of fashion; but children, the Holocaust and friendship are still the rage. So the sure-fire formula for creating a bestseller is to write a story
So the sure-fire formula for creating a bestseller is to write a story about children’s friendship during the Holocaust……even if you don’t know the first thing about it.The Boy in Striped Pyjamas is the heart-warming (read “emotionally manipulative”) story of the doomed friendship between two pre-teen boys, born on the same day (one Jew and one the son of a Nazi) and its inevitable tragic conclusion.
Yet here we have a camp which is literally crawling with kids, almost like a kindergarten.We also have a German child Bruno, who despite being the son of a high-ranking Nazi officer who is very close to Hitler, does not know about Aryans, Jews and the concentration camps.
I was several pages in before it suddenly dawned on me that the Fury was the Fuhrer but I was a bit quicker to identify Out With.That ending is so very, very sad.
And then the final paragraph which reads like something from a fairy tale when it was so totally the opposite:"And that's the end of the story about Bruno and his family.
Of course all this happened a long time ago and nothing like that could ever happen again.
The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas is a shameless money-making machine without writing skill or depth, without nuance or finesse, without basic knowledge of history or children's levels of understanding at age 9, and without the slightest ethical guidelines.The target group is unfortunately a generation of parents, teachers and children who have lost touch with complex historical and linguistic knowledge and who need a babyish, fictionalised, shockingly inaccurate version of the Second World War to stay focused - and that is unacceptable in my opinion.
I'll give it this much. Few books have caused me to actually shake SHAKE in anger. Wow. I think I need to go boil my eyeballs for a while. What was the author thinking?
The Boy in the Striped Pajamas is a Holocaust “fable” by the Irish writer John Boyne, in which a nine-year-old German boy named Bruno arrives at Auschwitz (or as the novel coyly and annoyingly calls it “Out-With”) when his father is named as the camp’s new commandant.
First, the premise that a nine-year-old boy in Nazi Germany wouldn’t know who the Führer was or what Heil Hitler meant is absolutely ludicrous (as is his ridiculous “mishearing” of Führer as “Fury”, which only works in English and not in German, where the word for "fury" is "Zorn" or "Wut"!) Bruno, at nine, is one year shy of mandatory membership in the Hitler-Jugend, and his sister Gretel, at 12, would have been in the BDM for the previous TWO years and moreover the children of a high-ranking SS officer would absolutely have known who Hitler was and not mixed up his name.
I am bawling my eyes out. John Boyne, thank you for writing this. ❤ I‘ve read many books about the Holocaust (I‘m German so I have been confronted with this topic from very early on) and this is by far my favorite one. I love the bond Schmuel and Bruno share and Bruno‘s innocence. While reading some particular scene I‘ve felt terribly guilty of what my country once has done. I wish I could undo all the horrible things that happened to innocent people ( including all people who were affected by t
I am bawling my eyes out. John Boyne, thank you for writing this. ❤️ I‘ve read many books about the Holocaust (I‘m German so I have been confronted with this topic from very early on) and this is by far my favorite one. I love the bond Schmuel and Bruno share and Bruno‘s innocence. While reading some particular scene I‘ve felt terribly guilty of what my country once has done. I wish I could undo all the horrible things that happened to innocent people ( including all people who were affected by the Holocaust, not only the Jews).
You can read this and all of my reviews at Lit·Wit·Wine·Dine.Since I am the last of the 4.357 gagillion readers out there to read The Boy in the Striped Pajamas, I won’t rehash what can be read in the blurb and I’m going to limit my review to the few points I found to be most important.This is a YA novel and the easy, simple way in which it is written really punctuates one of the main themes; the innocence and naiveté of children.At times I felt Bruno was a bit of a spoiled turd.
At age 8/9 he would have been in school, and subject to the indoctrination of the Hitler Youth; and he certainly would have been fully aware of not only Hitler, but how to pronounce Fuhrer!Indeed, it is this apparent ignorance of even the most basic things about Hitler's Germany, and it's attitude to Jews, that would have been brainwashed into the minds of German Youth, that is hardest to come to grips with.
This story. I'm glad I finally read it. It's taken me years to pick it up and watching the movie last month gave me the nudge to finally read it. Actually seeing it was worse (in the movie) in terms of heartbreak and devastation. Such a powerful read, but not for the faint of heart.
Another case of some unscrupulous bastard making money with overwrought dramatizations of real tragedies. The Holocaust was a crime beyond imagining, and tying in adorable children and cliched tales of ~Friendship~ would only make the book more tempting to those easily swayed by the spell of sentimentality.Urgh.
Other times they discovered something that was probably best left alone (like a dead mouse at the back of a cupboard).”A remarkable, simply told ‘fable’, as the title says – a parable about a boy who realises if he wants answers to his questions, he’s going to have to discover them for himself.
Mostly, he just wants to know why he has to put up with rules and be lonely and uncomfortable.Bruno is a nine-year old boy living a privileged life in a big house in Berlin with his parents and his annoying twelve-year-old sister, Gretel.
Before the film, the stage play and now the ballet…came the original novel.‘The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas’ is a challenging story and at times difficult to read, due to the subject matter and the manner in which it is portrayed.
Without wishing to give anything away to anyone who has not yet read ‘The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas’ – this is the story of Bruno, a 9 year old boy growing up in Germany at the time of WWII and is told from his very protected and naïve perspective – heartbreakingly so.
An excellent and important book that should be read by all.
I have thought about it a lot which is generally a sign of good writing, but in this case, maybe I am thinking about it because the book disturbed me.If I look at the Holocaust historical fiction genre as a whole, I am not sure what this book adds to the group.
Surely it wasn't the shocking ending that served little in adding to the greater story of the Holocaust.
My guess is just shock value.I do think the book makes an excellent argument for being honest with children in even the worst circumstances.
(Yes, there is Holocaust romance.)Addendum, April 16, 2017In my review proper, I framed the controversy over this book both as one of power and one of free speech--huge topics to which I just alluded.
What gets taught in public schools has long been a flashpoint for controversy.Last year a teacher in the Atlanta metropolitan area used an interactive teaching method ("game") to teach about slavery in her fifth-grade classroom.
In this case, power is more clearly the issue (rather than free speech), with the grandmother challenging societal authority as vested in the role of teacher.
I added this to my To-Read list when a couple of students requested it, then Boy began to read it. Whenever he put it down, I picked it up because Buno is the perfect narrator to pull any reader right in. It's impossible not to adore him in his blissful ignorance. Part of me wished he could live in his bubble forever, while another part wanted to explain exactly what was going down. No part of me properly anticipated how the story would end.
Here is a book that reads in one go and that is comfortable. I very much like this story of friendship between a German boy and a Jewish boy. I found that the difference in maturity was blatant between these two boys of the same age, but who lived in two very different worldviews, including one was not even aware of the seriousness of the events taking place just a few steps from home. I appreciated that the violence is not crully said but implied and left to our imagination and our knowledge on the subject.
When his father is promoted to Commandant in the German army and his family is transferred from their comfy home in Berlin to a strange place called Out-With, nine year-old Bruno has no idea of the true nature of his new surroundings.
Bruno’s innocence and his friendship with Shmuel will ultimately have catastrophic results on his life and that of his family’s.Written as seen through young Bruno’s eyes, the book perhaps lacks the visual punch that the movie delivers but this is still a worthwhile and sadly heartbreaking novel.
Bruno loves living in his wonderful house in Berlin but he is soon told that his family need to move to a new house due to his Father's job.
Once at the new house Bruno quickly decides they were much better off living in Berlin - in Berlin they didn't have large groups of people in striped pyjamas spoiling their views from the window.
He is told that on no account must he go near the fence that separates his families garden from the dusty, baron land where the pyjama'd people live.
Soon Bruno makes a friend, a boy who lives just over the fence.
Monica Edinger said: ** spoiler alert ** I don't see the point of this book at all. Doesn't work as an allegory, a fable, or anything else. The boy (both boys, for that matter) are naive beyond belief. The German boy's misuse of language is completely not credible. Want to give a kid a book on this topic? Anne Frank.I added: Completely agree, Monica. What I find so distressing is how many educators are making this part of the curriculum. They think it is a great and oh-so-moving book and are working hard to convince kids of the same.
Over and over and over...Any of these kinds of things would have been perfect times for Nazi Dad to say, "Well, little Bruno, that man gets a star because he's a Jew, and we're rounding him, his family, and everyone like him up so that we can cleanse the earth of their filth." But he didn't, apparently, which begs the question: Why not?
Let readers think for themselves.Another two examples of this protection thing: 1) The narrator has a bad habit of editing out the terms the Nazis used to describe Jews.

