https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122401.Asterix_the_Gladiator
Astérix gladiateur = Asterix the gladiator (Asterix, #4), René Goscinny Asterix the Gladiator is the fourth volume of the Asterix comic book series, by René Goscinny (stories) and Albert Uderzo (illustrations).
It was first serialized in the magazine Pilote, issues 126–168, in 1962.عنوانها: آستریکس گلادیاتور؛ آستریکس و گلادیاتور؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه می سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 04 - آستریکس گلادیاتور؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: مهدی شاه خلیلی؛ تهران، لک لک، 1382؛ از ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 04؛ در 48 ص؛ مصور رنگی؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9646488544؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کلام، 1385؛ شابک: 9646143725؛ در 46 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور از نویسندگان فرانسوی - سده 20 معنوان: آستریکس و گلادیاتور؛ مترجم: فریبرز افروزی؛ تهران، سامر، 1392؛ در 48 ص؛ شابک: 9786006444093؛داستان‌های این مجموعه در دهکده‌ ای از مردم گـل که در مقابل اشغال رومی‌ها مبارزه می‌کنند روی می‌دهد.
বেরনারডিন এভারিসটো'র The Emperor's Babe পড়ার পর থেকেই আবার অযাসটেরিকসের কাছে ফিরে যাবার পরবল ইচছা হচছিল। জুলেইকার জগতের সাথে মিল রাখতে হলে অযাসটেরিকস ইন বরিটেন গলপটা পড়া উচিৎ ছিল, কিনতু ওটা যেহেতু হাতের কাছে নেই, গলযাডিয়েটর-ই তুলে নিলাম। ছোটকালে খুব সমভবত এইটাই আমার পড়া পরথম অযাসটেরিকস ছিল। সেই কলাস সেভেনে পড়া একটা কমিক যে এতো বছর পরেও এতো আননদ দিতে পারে, কে জানতো! ঢাকার বালকের ইংরেজি জঞান তথা সামগরিক সাংসকৃতিক জঞান সীমিত ছিল, তাই অনেক সূকষণ ডিটেইল অথবা ইনসাইড জোক সেই সময় ধরতে পারিনি। আজকে আবার
বের্নার্ডিন এভারিস্টো'র The Emperor's Babe পড়ার পর থেকেই আবার অ্যাস্টেরিক্সের কাছে ফিরে যাবার প্রবল ইচ্ছা হচ্ছিল। জুলেইকার জগতের সাথে মিল রাখতে হলে অ্যাস্টেরিক্স ইন ব্রিটেন গল্পটা পড়া উচিৎ ছিল, কিন্তু ওটা যেহেতু হাতের কাছে নেই, গ্ল্যাডিয়েটর-ই তুলে নিলাম। ছোটকালে খুব সম্ভবত এইটাই আমার পড়া প্রথম অ্যাস্টেরিক্স ছিল। সেই ক্লাস সেভেনে পড়া একটা কমিক যে এতো বছর পরেও এতো আনন্দ দিতে পারে, কে জানতো!
PS জুলেইকাও লন্ডিনিয়ামের একটি গ্ল্যাডিয়েটর অনুষ্ঠানে উপস্থিত ছিল - বের্নার্ডিন এভারিস্টো কল্পনা করার চেষ্টা করেছেন তার মর্মান্তিক বাস্তবতা। অ্যাস্টেরিক্সের লঘু হাস্যরস একদমই ভিন্ন ক্যাটেগরির বস্তু - তবে দুটো পাশাপাশি পড়া একটা ইন্টারেস্টিং অভিজ্ঞতা ঠেকলো।PPS অনুবাদক-রত্ন অ্যান্থিয়া বেল মারা গেছেন অল্প কয়দিন আগে। তার প্রতি শ্রদ্ধা ও কৃতজ্ঞতা বলে শেষ হবে না। ভালো থাকুন, বেল, যেখানেই।
The village bard Cacofonix is captured by the Roman Prefect for Gaul.
The prefect needs a unique present to offer in Rome to Caesar.
Cacofonix's singing is indeed unique (happily so--he is quite terrible) and the villagers aren't so worried when he's disappeared.
The mission will take Asterix and Obelix all the way to the Circus Maximus in Rome to save their fellow villager.The story is the standard mix of puns and jokes along with the mild, ridiculous violence that comes from an ancient tribe with a potion of undefeatable strength.
This provides the standard good fun of an Asterix comic.
El bardo cantor Asurancetourix es secuestrado por los romanos para ser llevado Julio Cesar como regalo. Asterix y Obelix en su rescate llegan a Roma donde terminan compitiendo en el gran coliseo. Excelente tomo repleto de humor e ironías.
Asterix takes his talent to the arena19 June 2012 As a kid I would read and reread the Asterix (and Tintin) comics over and over again. My primary school library (and local council library) had quite a collection of both, and at least with regards to Asterix, between them had pretty much all of them (with Tintin I had to go and persuade my parents to purchase the ones that were not available, so with the exception of the first two, I had read all of the Tintin comics, and the Asterix comics that
Now, being a 'young' adult and working fulltime (as well as having access to the internet which means that I can get copies of the albums at least half of what I would be paying at a bookstore in Adelaide) I have now managed to collect and read all of the Tintin comics and I am slowly obtaining the Asterix comics as well (for some reason I seem to have moved away from borrowing books from the library, I guess because if I purchase them, not only can I then give them to by Dad, but I can take my time reading them).
This was just my latest find, Asterix the Gladiator, and it may be the best Asteriz I've ever read.Asterix is from a village of indomitable Gauls who are among the few holdouts of Roman rule.
This story is different from the other I've read because the root of the quest is based on honor, and not just to beat up Romans for fun, although they did that too.
I wished the later Asterix are like this, although there is still hope because I still have many gaps in my Asterix readings.
I bought this back in1975 and I have read and reread it many times.
It brings back very happy memories of my childhood when I would read this with my nephews whilst translating it into Polish as we went.
I'm happy to say that I still found it funny on the latest rereading, and as always, I LOVE looking at the fantastic pictures by Uderzo.Who else loves the bit where Asterix asks Obelix to knock on a door only to find he smashes it in because to Obelix the two things are one and the same?!
Αυτοί οι Γαλάτες! Αιώνες μετά μας δίνουν χαρά και γέλιο. Κλασικό κόμικς που διαβάζεται διαχρονικά από μικρούς και μεγάλους. Κι ειδικά αυτή η περιπέτεια είναι από τις καλύτερες
অযাসটেরিকস মানে অাসাধারণ
অ্যাস্টেরিক্স মানে অাসাধারণ
Asterix and Obelix travel to Rome to save Cacofonix, who has been taken by the Romans to be fed to the Lions at the Roman Circus... After a long trip and a new encounter with the Pirates (for their misfortune) everything turns up well with a little help of the Magic Potion.Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 19 May 2015.
في عددها الرابع ما زالت السلسلة تتميز بخفة الظل والابتكار بل تتطور للأفضل، هواية جمع الخوذات ولعبة نعم ولا أمتع ما في هذا العدد.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
My favourite Asterix from the first four. I loved the character of Insalubrious, the gladiator trainer. He is HUGE compared to even Obelix!
Nel complesso si nota che questa è una delle prime avventure di Asterix. Il tratto di Uderzo non è ancora perfetto e la caratterizzazione di diversi comprimari è ancora un poco imprecisa. La storia imbastita da Goscinny è divertente e di media complessità, alcune situazioni sono veramente comiche, ma ci sono pochi di quei calembour per cui Goscinny è giustamente famoso. O forse è solo qualcosa che si è perduto nella traduzione.
The further adventures of Asterix the diminutive gladiator and his towering buddy in crime Obelisk as they gladiate their way through 50 BC Gaul. I loved these as a kid and it was a great trip down golden oldie drive reading one of these books again! They are printed the world over, in all languages, with text by Goscinny and drawings by Uderzo. Read one today!
Clever, clever stuff. 'Asterix and Obelix make the ancient Gaulish sign indicating a wish to be taken on board. Note the four benched fingers and the thumb jerked in the desired direction. If you wish to go to Rome. The direction of the thumb is immaterial since all roads lead there.'
El gran drama de este libro es la relación entre el arte de Aseranceturix y la humanidad ¡Pobre bardo!
My favourite Asterix of the first 4 I have read to date. Funnier than the others.
Why not take Caesar one of the invincible Gauls?"The least intimidating of the indomitable Gauls is Cacofonix the bard so he is the one kidnapped and taken to Rome.
While in Rome they find out that Caesar wants to throw him to the lions at the next games in Circus Maximus, and "only condemned men, lions and gladiators get into the circus," so they train to be gladiators.The book features fights galore, at which Obelix collects helmets of the people (mainly Romans) he beats as part of a competition with Asterix.
Veni, vidi, et je n'en crois pas mes yeux!Da zeigt sich der wahre Grund fürs Überleben des kleinen gallischen Dorfs: Sie halten zusammen.
Nach einem oder zwei Wildschweinen, natürlich.Göttliche Persiflagen auf die Gegenwart, wie das ausgesprochen brillante Treppenhausgeschreie oder das Geschäftsmodell der Phönizier vermischen sich mit eher konventionellen Slapstickpassagen - ein sehr durchwachsener Band also.
Doch während der beste Band einer anderen, neulich von mir gelesenen BD-Reihe immer noch nur so lala ist (Le groupe), so ist selbst ein Durchhänger bei Astérix immer noch spitze.
Die Hauptfigur hier - Troubadix, der Barde - wird von den Römern entführt und soll in Rom vor Cäsar persönlich in der Arena vortreten.
Asterix und Obelix ziehen los und befreien ihren "Freund", welcher ob seines Gesangs von den Dorfbewohnern nicht unbedingt liebevoll behandelt wird.
Mit den Römern ergeht es ihm nicht anders und Einer nach dem Anderen verzweifelt ob der Gesangskünste des Barden.Schön dabei zu sehen wie Asterix und Obelix, nachdem sie in Rom angekommen sind sich Zeit lassen um den Barden zu befreien und sich mehr nebenbei darauf konzentrieren die dortigen Gladiatoren zu befreien.
Gewohnt humorvoll und abenteuerlich, was will man mehr.
Наздраве... с глътка магическа отвара! А вместо фойерверки - всеки римски легионер ще види звезди посред бял ден! Да посрещнем Новата Година с едни любими герои от 50 години пр. Хр., които със сигурност ще продължават да векуват! :) Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
A politician is in the area and wants to take Caesar a present, so it's decided one of the 'inviincible' Gauls will be taken.
They chose the bard.
The village gets its revenge on the Roman camp, but the bard is already on his way to Rome.Asterix and Obelix journey to Rome to save the bard.
Meanwhile Caesar decides to throw the bard to the lions (even before he heard him sing.) Asterix and Obelix become gladiators.
They get the gladiators to agree to stop fighting before they go ahead and beat up some more Romans.Pretty funny.
This book had me in stiches when I was young, especially the bit in the pub with Obelix asking the guard where Cacofenix is. I now realise these books taught me more about the Romans than anything else! Pictures and colors remain excellent, and it stands up very well. Supior to Tintin in my opinion.
I must have missed this "episode" first time round. Assourancetourix is kidnapped to be given as a present to Caesar. Asterix and Obelix must rescue him before the lions attack him in the circus. But only the condemned. Lions and gladiators are allowed into the circus floor. What can they do? ....
Første og andre møte med sjørøvararane, og det kan sjå ut til at han frå Arverne som rømte frå Lutetia i La serpe d'or har slått seg ned i Rom.
Another very enjoyable outing. The first appearance of the pirates. Everything in Rome was great. All-round silliness. Fantastic.
Storia semplice, lineare. Vecchiotta ma invecchiata bene. Bella.
I laughed all through! Instantmix! Economicrisis! What hilarious names! What a hilarious story! I've got to hand it to the author. Excellent job!
i've outgrown comics but still I found this funny
Fantástico..... es de lo mejor para descansar.....
As I continue with my rereading of this spectacular comic series, I stumble upon Asterix the Gladiator.
I remember reading this one for the first time and laughing my ass off and I was extremely delighted that rereading it was just as much fun.
I'm always pleasantly surprised and a little awed that this comic has the unique ability of being witty and so very hilarious even after all these years.
And I find myself grasping the little historical references now more than the first time I read it.
Goscinny reeled me in early again, this time by naming the prefect character Odius Asparagus.
I love the playfulness of Obelix as he challenges Asterix in collecting the most helmets from the Roman soldiers they thump.
Asterix teaching his fellow gladiators to put down their weapons and play a childish game in the Circus isn't bad either.That's what this series is - playful.
The indomitable Gauls play with Roman legionaries, pirates, Goths, bandits, everyone they encounter.
Asterix and Obelix hit and laugh hard.
The fearsome playfulness of the main characters makes for one great read.
Five out of ten. CBR format.The romans capture the Gauls village bard, Cacofonix, and plan to use him in the Circus. Only by becoming gladiators can Asterix and Obelix rescue him.
This get more interesting!
There is an interesting mix of Urban rome, mercantilism, and interesting Gaulish episodes in rome.
Asterix and Obelix go to rome to rescue Cacofonix (the gaul who sings terribly, just like me :P).
ON their adventures, they have to cross the seas.
They meet pirates, Economikrisis (who transports them to Rome), their Gaulish migrant in Rome, a sauna (which they find very awkward).
Altogether, it is a mess and it is interesting to read this.
The graphic is different from the three earlier ones.
In toto, it is getting more interesting!
Πλέον η σειρά παίρνει πλήρες σχήμα και το "Ο Αστερίξ Μονομάχος" ξεφεύγει κατά πολύ από τα προηγούμενα τέσσερα σε όλα τα επίπεδα.
Οι χαρακτήρες του Αστερίξ και Οβελίξ έχουν οριστικοποιηθεί πλήρως τόσο σχεδιαστικά όσο και σαν προσωπικότητες όπως και οι ρόλοι τους στο σύμπαν αυτό, ενώ το τεύχος είναι εν μέρει αφιερωμένο στον Κακοφωνίξ, τον βάρδο που όλοι αγαπάμε να μισούμε και εδώ τον γνωρίζουμε για πρώτη φορά καλύτερα.
Σειρά προτίμησης μέχρι στιγμής η παρακάτω και επόμενη στάση "Ο Γύρος της Γαλατίας":Οι δάφνες του ΚαίσαραΟ Αστερίξ μονομάχοςΤο χρυσό δρεπάνιΑστερίξ ο ΓαλάτηςΑστερίξ και οι Γότθοι
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
Read several Astérix comics when I was a kid. These are popular in France, and they were written by the same author who wrote the Petit Nicholas series.
Asterix and Obelix try to rescue Cacofonix from being fed to the lions in this witty and well illustrated addition to the series.
Kutime mi amegas Asteriks. Ĉi-foje ne tiom. Kiom tio ŝuldiĝas al la rakonto mi ne scias; povas esti simple, ke la traduko ne tiom plaĉis al mi. Certe en ĝi estis kelkaj eraroj, ekzemple "Saluton, Cezaro, vin salutas la mortintoj", kio estas tute nelogika (la homoj salutantaj ne estis mortaj). "Mortontoj" estas la ĝusta vorto.Aliaj tradukoj pensigas min, ke la tradukisto ne konas Asteriks, almenaŭ en ĝia originala versio. Obeliks plurfoje diras, ekzemple, "La romianoj estas stultaj". Pli ĝusta traduko por speguli lian naturan parolmanieron estus "Ili frenezas, tiuj romianoj!"
It was funny because the Romans captured Cacofonix.
Na primeira edição brasileira, da Cedibra (sem data, mas provavelmente em meados dos anos 70, com tradução de Eli Gomes), este era o 12º álbum.Agora são publicados pela Editora Record, na chamada série remasterizada.
A qualidade é tão superior que dá vontade de comprar todos os álbuns novamente!> Autores: René Goscinny (1926 – 1977), roteiro, e Albert Uderzo (1927), desenhos> Lançamento original na França	– Em formato seriado: na revista Pilote nº 126, em 22/03/1962	– Em álbum: 1964> Lançamento no Brasil	– final dos anos 60 / início dos 70, por Cedibra, em brochura, com tradução de Eli Gomes> Edição atual remasterizada: Hachette Livre, 1999.
A Roman Prefect has a crazy idea — why not capture one of the indomitable Gaulish villagers and present them to Julius Caesar for use in the circus.
So Cacofonix the bard is captured and taken to Rome.
Along the way, we also get to see some Phoenicians, pirates and even an Egyptian who likes drawing on Roman pillars.Once again, it is an adventure and we don’t get to see much of the Gaul village.
Even though he is the reason for the story, Cacofonix has a surprisingly small role mostly centered around his horrible singing, and in the end, is tied and gagged up when the heroes return back after rescuing him.
Dit gee ons helde, Asterix en Obelix, genoeg tyd om hul vriend uit die kloue van die Romeine te verlos - solank hy net nie sing nie ...Die avonture van Asterix is al meer as 40 jaar oud en steeds geliefd.
Protea Boekhuis se lofwaardige projek om die hele reeks in Afrikaans uit te gee, sou egter 'n vroeë dood gesterf het as die vertaling nie so spitsvondig was nie.
Sonya van Schalkwyk-Barrois buit die speelse segging van Afrikaans uit om die verhaal op taalvlak nuwe skop te gee.
This edition introduces the pirates (who will become a part of a running gag in the comic), as well as Geriatrix (the oldest man in the village), and Brutus.
It also feautures, according to Wiki, the first occurence of Obelix's helmet game where he competes with Asterix for who will collect the most Roman hemlets (after beating up the soldiers first).
The plot, as Wiki explains, is as follows:"When the Romans try to contain the threat from the Gaulish village by building a stockade around it, Asterix and Obelix lay a bet with them.
but who's that little dog that has been following them all the way from Lutetia?"
