https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311203.Death_in_the_Stocks
Antonia was engaged to a man that Mr Vereker disapproved of; while her artist brother Kenneth is in debt, and wants to marry the beautiful Violet Williams, who makes no secret of her desire for a good life.
Both Kenneth and Antonia treat the matter of Mr Vereker’s murder flippantly, to the despair of both Inspector Hannasyde and their, considerably more sensible, cousin Giles Carrington.
I liked this enough to want to read more by Heyer, with a fun storyline, some good plot twists and turns and a likeable amateur sleuth in Giles to aid the Inspector.
There are several other suspects and the case is already shaping up as a major challenge when yet another suspect arrives on the scene, and this new suspect also has no alibi!Despite the best efforts of their cousin Giles Carrington who is acting as their solicitor Antonia and Kenneth insist on making no serious effort to clear themselves being far too busy sorting out their complicated love lives.Heyer’s husband apparently wrote the plot outlines for her mystery novels while Heyer herself was more interested in the characters.
If Tony didn't do it, surely her brother Kenneth, an eccentric artist did it.
Tony's cousin Giles Carrington acts as solicitor and friend to his eccentric cousins and right hand man to the baffled Inspector Hannasyde who is on the case.
Heyer seemed to have a set of stock characters to populate her mysteries and this unloving family is no different from the rest but they're a bit more eccentric and likeable once you get to know them.
I liked this mystery the best of the three Heyer mysteries I've read but it doesn't compare with her Regency novels.
In the past I've enjoyed a couple of her Regency romances, most recently listening to one of the audiobooks read by Richard Armitage, but this is the first time I've tried one of her mysteries.The style of writing seems quite similar to that of her Regency novels, with a lot of witty dialogue and larger-than-life characters.
There aren't very many suspects to choose from, but the mystery is still puzzling, with several twists to keep readers guessing.One character who I do find a bit much is Tony and Kenneth's housekeeper, always referred to just as 'Murgatroyd' - she is something of a sub-Dickensian eccentric.
But in general I enjoyed this a lot and will look forward to reading more Heyer mysteries.
I liked it. First time reading this author, can't believe I had never heard of her even though she wrote in the 30's. As I read, I kept thinking it would have made a great black and white movie, in the syle of the My Man Godfrey, etc.
It's also got its fair share of racist nattering about "dark foreigners," while at the same time being highly in favor of cousins marrying.
This is the type of book that makes one worry about the English upperclass being terribly inbred.I got it for free and mostly read it in between splashing around in the ocean, and for those purposes, it was all right.
But honestly, there's no other reason to read this while inhabiting the same universe in which Dorothy L.
Sayers exists (which, whatever else one might rightly say about our universe at the moment, fortunately, we do).
Yes, well, it's fair to say that Georgette Heyer was not the world's best mystery writer and the plotting in this one is not particularly strong.
Most of the characters are unlikeable, but they are quite funny.
I also loved Roger: he reminded me of one of the stock characters in Georgette Heyer's Regency romances: the disreputable but entertaining younger brother.
I don't think Heyer's mysteries are anything like as good as her Regency romances, but for someone who grew up reading and loving those romances - or for someone with an interest in period mysteries - they still make rewarding reading.
This reminds me a little of Marsh's Surfeit of Lampreys, with the introduction of a family not only indulging in the brittle gaiety of the time, but added a level of eccentricity of their own - though in this case the eccentricity mainly involves being openly rude to their relatives and acquaintances.The mystery is one of those where you can spot your murderer by considering main characters who no-one suspects of the murder (even though there's a logical motive for that person.A reasonable story, but not one of the more compelling of Heyer's mysteries.
Heyer found my credulity level and rubbed it with sandpaper until I thought I would have to put the novel down unfinished.Here are the basics: step-brother (don't dare call him a brother!) is murdered and his body left in a most unusual place; brother and sister should or could be suspects; everyone could be a suspect; engagements and fiancées are proclaimed everywhere except where they should be; the police inspector needs the help of the amateur sleuth to solve the whole thing.Read this if you are curious or if you want to know you've covered the entire series.
I always suspect that either the truth would be too obvious (consequently boring) or a writer would be unfair against a reader concealing important facts to make a story probably more engaging (but it makes me feel cheated).I have found here a very entertaining book.
Together with the mystery and well written characters it made me want to read page after page.There was a love story in the background, it was very obvious from the beginning.
So, in spite of the fact that you will find here only one romantic scene and a few meaningful glances, if you are a fan of Heyer's romances you will feel 'love in the air'.
I know Georgette Heyer is a hit and miss for some people but I love her books, whether they’re her regency or mystery books.
Her mystery books remind me of Agatha Christie—not quite up to par with the Queen but enjoyable nonetheless.
The murder happens right from the start.
Arthur has been found with a knife in his back in the stocks.
From there, we meet several characters.
Including, his half-brother, half-sister, fiancées, a lawyer-that is also his cousin, and all of them have a motive for killing Arthur.
None of them are likable either.
Heyer is incredible at what she writes.
This was my favourite of GH's mysteries when I first read it, & all these years later it still is.
Only a writer as gifted as GH could have made their callousness appealing!There is one general criticism I have of GH's mysteries (view spoiler)[ there are always some characters, usually the romantic interests that the reader just knows won't be the murderer.
But all  characters in a Christie are fair game & this is one of the reasons why GH will never be considered as good a murder mystery writer as her.
(hide spoiler)]My only other criticisms are that the solution is quite poorly written.
The story opens with the discovery of a body in the stocks on the village green. Arnold Vereker was an unlikable man, with plenty of enemies. They cast of suspects is relatively small; there is his half-brother Kenneth or half-sister Antonia, Antonia's fiance and one or two other possibilities.  It is an enjoyable little mystery, but as with her other mysteries, it is not particularly tightly plotted in the way of an Agatha Christie, what makes it so entertaining is the characterisation. This, I feel, is where Heyer's talent lies.**Many thanks to Netgalley for a copy to review.**
Best known for her regency novels, Georgette Heyer also wrote detective novels set in 1930's Great Britain.
In this book a man is found dead in the middle of the night, dressed in evening clothes in the stocks set in the middle of the village green.
Superintendent Hannasyde determines his identity and discovers that he is hated by almost everyone.
It takes all of his skill to uncover the identity of the murderer.
Charming characters and witty dialogue as well as amusing plot twists are all characteristic for a Heyer book.
It's a fun book and well worth reading, especially for fans of Golden Age Detective novels.
The Vereker family is what we now-a-days call a "blended" one - the (deceased) patriarch had several wives - sequentially - and there are now four adult half-siblings, most of whom dislike each other extremely.
As the eldest half-brother, Arnold holds the purse strings and manages the family company, and seems to be doing quite well at it; the younger siblings are due to get rather nice trust funds when they turn 25.
So when, early in this novel, he is found dead in a peculiar place, the suspects are many, and the stage is set for a fairly typical romantic mystery of the period.
Also, while we had a romance that ends in marriage at the end, as in all the other books, at least this time the two people knew each other.
13 and 14 which were relatively absurd.
The fact that she was able to maintain the absurdity for complete chapters is quite impressive.
The mystery itself was blech, but the absurdity is worth looking at.Final thought: these books are also interesting for what they show us about the time period.
In particular, each book talks about electrical plants, and how these were set up for individual restaurants and hotels.
Electricity, even in the 30s in England was still relatively new, as was using a phone.
"It's the perfect crime, Superintendent."One body found stabbed in the stocks of a sleepy village; another found soon after shot in his own apartment.
And one family is caught in the middle of it, desperate to keep its secrets… This was my first mystery by Georgette Heyer.
It is cozy and entertaining, and the murder mysteries themselves, the many red herrings and twists, were intriguing and really enjoyable.
Luckily, what Heyer was incredibly brilliant at was her characters.
The individual conclusions to their fates really interested me more than the murder, which goes to prove how good Heyer was at creating multi-facetted characters.
A cozy murder mystery with brilliant characters!
I love Georgette Heyer - and enjoy reading her mysteries as well as her Regency romances and historicals. This, one of her mysteries, was a solid read. The characters were thoroughly interesting, even if they weren't always likeable, and their biting wit hilarious. I had figured out who the killer was by a quarter of the way through the book, but that did not take away from my enjoyment. I received just as much pleasure from reading about the characters and their antics as uncovering the murderer.
The first of the Hannasyde/Hemingway books -- it doesn't have enough of Sergeant Hemingway for my tastes :(As for the plot, Heyer gives the reader pointers to who is the guilty party but she holds back the final proofs (a bit 'unfair' to my mind). I did enjoy the Vereker siblings' squabbles!
So I got Death in the Stocks on Kindle, execting a fun read.I pretty much hated it - or rather I hated almost every single character - except Hannasyde and I was disappointed in his lack of perspicacity .I expected much play on class and class attitudes and am familiar with them from the Regencies, but maybe because of the more modern setting , instead of amusing, it really grated.
Before anyone tells me how authentic the class based stuff is - I know, I am English, so say no more .
I know GH was reflecting the attitudes of her class and time, but still....
Occasionally, this means affairs can drag a bit, but on the whole, it is the single place where Heyer bests Christie.
In fact, the characters are the reason to pick the book up in the first place.
The mystery is tight enough- or becomes so, that I got that work-things-out puzzle feeling necessary to a solid whodunnit.
Interestingly enough, Heyer's husband actually created the puzzle part of Heyer's books and then Heyer, who wrote mostly regency romance, took on the task of fleshing out the characters and turning the whole thing into a novel.
Superintendent Hannasyde is called in from Scotland Yard and soon finds that there are plenty of suspects for Andrew Vereker's murder.
He had sacked his chauffer hours before the murder providing another suspect and who was that down at heel man who paid a visit to him hours before he was found dead?This is a well written crime novel from the Golden Age of British crime writing.
The Verekers are not particularly likeable characters to modern readers but they do conjure up the atmosphere of the era in which the book was written.
2.5 stars for this one.
This mystery starts with a lot of promise, with the atmosphere and intrigue created in the first chapter being perfect.
As the investigation unfolds, we meet the horrid family of the victim.
But the story becomes more of a soap opera than a mystery as it unfolds.
The story is more of an entertaining family drama than a puzzle.
That said, as a work of dramatic fiction rather than a mystery, it would probably deserve at least a solid three stars.
My first experience with Georgette Heyer.
I will probably read more of her mysteries with Inspector Hannyside.
I probably will never read her Regency books - not really up my alley.This was okay.
When I was about 80% through when I suddenly woke up and said to myself - hey, wait a minute, it has to be so-and-so.
A half-sister is found the next morning in the house.
Other hangers on include his fiancee, a former girlfriend (or perhaps a hopeful future girlfriend) and the sister's fiance.
None of whom particularly want to help the inspector.
Es un tipo inteligente, un par de años mayor que sus primos, es observador, maduro, serio pero no carente de sentido del humor, centrado, no es para nada un aventurero ni excéntrico, es el más “normal” dentro de la familia.Leslie, una amiga de Tony que vive enamorada de Kenneth y pareciera que es su alma gemela, solo que este está obnubilado por la ordinaria belleza de Violet y aunque pareciera tenerle cariño tampoco alienta demasiado la admiración de ella por él.El inspector Hannasyde es el encargado de llevar a cabo la investigación, un policía sin la carga intelectual ni las células grises al nivel de Poirot, hace bien su trabajo basado en su instinto, es directo y tiene un cierto sentido del humor… no es quien descubre al culpable, dentro de la trama tiene un papel menor siendo que podría haber sido más relevante.Tony y Kenneth, son muy parecidos, ambos resultan ser bastante desagradables, un poco groseros, insensibles y algo insoportables, niños mimados que no son considerados ni educados con quienes están a su alrededor, son de sobremanera superficiales y algo excéntricos.
Había leído algunos comentarios que me hicieron esperar una gran novela de misterior pero me ha parecido más bien que el asesinato por resolver es una excusa para retratar a los miembros de la familia Vereker.Sinceramente la mayoría de los protagonistas exceptuando a Giles Carrington y al inspector Hannasyde me han parecido muy extravagantes: seguros de si mismos hasta el punto de creerse capaces de engañar a la policía, rebeldes con los convencionalismos pero con un código de conducta propio y variable.
No por ello dejaría, ni dejaré, de recomendar su lectura porque es una novela de misterio que se lee de forma ágil y denota un muy buena capacidad para crear personajes.
3.5 stars.I will be forever grateful to my high school librarian who introduced me to the world of Georgette Heyer.
I have read all of her regency romances but have never read these mysteries set in the 1930s, a somewhat awkward era (not quite contemporary and not old enough to be historical).
However, I was pleasantly surprised.
The mystery is almost secondary and I thought the culprit quite easy to spot.
Hannasyde didn't take as pivotal a role as I would have expected in the denouement.
I'll be interested to see whether his role is expanded in the next book.

I think I found the core of the book - the vituperative banter among members of the dead man's family and their entourage - more unlikeable than amusing, although it was among these relationships that the key to the mystery lay.
Good fun.The GR blurb:'Beneath a sky the colour of sapphires and the sinister moonlight, a gentleman in evening dress is discovered slumped in the stocks on the village green - he is dead.
Superintendent Hannasyde's consummate powers of detection and solicitor Giles Carrington's amateur sleuthing are tested to their limits as they grapple with the Vereker family - a group of outrageously eccentric and corrupt suspects.'
Death in the Stocks is the first of the Inspector Hannayside novels, a man is found dead in stocks and his family don't seem bothered by this event, in fact they are rather pleased, which makes things difficult for Hannayside to discover who the murderer is. Crime from the Golden Age, full of wit which makes it an unusual crime series to read.
