https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1268331.Ask_A_Policeman
Depois de Quem Matou o Almirante?, publicado em 2014, a coleção Crime à Hora do Chá aposta novamente na escrita a várias mãos do The Detection Club com este Perguntem ao Polícia.
Lembro-me de já não ter ficado maravilhada com o anterior livro, mas este Perguntem ao Polícia deixou-me ainda mais decepcionada.
Este foi o quarto livro do clube, criado três anos antes e apenas seis membros (a rainha do policial já não entrou neste) o escreveram.
Mesmo assim achei-o bastante confuso talvez por trocarem de detectives sempre que era um autor novo a escrever e no fim de cada capítulo estava o caso solucionado, com a justificação do crime bem fundamentada e descoberto o assassino, sempre diferente em cada caso.
I think the books and stories the Detection Club did together must have been a lot of fun to do and to share around with other writers, but they come off less well for someone outside that context, and particularly given that many of the authors and detectives are no longer well-known.
Sayers/Lord Peter were the only ones I knew from this bunch, so the parody and playing in other people’s sandboxes doesn’t really interest me.Going through the same murder in however many different ways just… didn’t interest me enough.
The parody of Sayers was quite fun, since I know what Wimsey is like, but other than that, I found this fairly boring.
Alas.Originally reviewed here.
That's not to mention the servants and any stranger who happened to be passing the gates of his house from which his open study window was visible.John Rhode describes the initial crime and Helen Simpson, Gladys Mitchell, Dorothy L Sayers and Anthony Berkeley each propose a solution using each other's detective characters.
Milward Kennedy wraps it all up with yet another solution.
It is good to see these entertaining books in print again and they are perfect reading for anyone who loves the Golden Age of Crime as well as being a good introduction for anyone who hasn't read any books by these authors before.
Ask a Policeman is written by members of The Detection Club. Four members are asked to come up with a solution of who killed Lord Comstock, a newspaper tycoon, found shot dead in his study. The authors and their detectives are jumbled so that each member uses anothers detective. The only detective I was familiar with was Lord Peter Wimsey, but it did make me want to go back and read more of the others. It was strange to have so many solutions. An odd but interesting experiment.
I am not really familiar with Sir John, but Simpson's portrayal of Mrs. Bradley was picture perfect, right down to the sly humor; I thoroughly enjoyed the chapter.
Unfortunately, Mitchell did end the chapter with a whimper rather than a bang; even so, she piqued my interest in Sir John Saumarez, and I'll be reading the first of the three Sir John novels, Enter Sir John, as soon as I can.The third chapter of Part II, "Lord Peter's Privy Counsel," penned by Detection Club founder and writer Anthony Berkeley rather than Lord Peters' originator, Dorothy L.
Sayers' chapter on Sheringham was enough to convince me to buy a novel in the Sheringham series, Roger Sheringham and the Vane Mystery.
So I have no idea which aspects were parody and which weren't.Out of the four sections, I think the second, "Sir John takes his cue" by Gladys Mitchell was my favourite.
Gotta check out who this Sir John was, and what Gladys Mitchell wrote.My least favourite section was "The Conclusions of Mr. Roger Sherringham" by Dorothy L.
Either one.By the way, the Lord Peter section (by Anthony Berkeley) was a little bit silly, but not bad.
It reminded me that I might want to check out more of Lord Peter's books, since I've only read one.All in all, it's not a bad book.
Who murdered Lord Comstock?
Four famous fictional amateurs, set free from the hands of their original creators, offer their own solutions.
The result is an interesting but uneven experiment in collaborative crime writing.
John Rhode sets up the mystery beautifully, and Berkeley and Sayers are typically excellent, even when switching protagonists.
The lowpoint comes with Milward Kennedy's confusing closing chapter.
If you are a golden age crime enthusiast, this is worth picking up, and the few strong chapters make it a good read.
Otherwise, just pick up the solo efforts of one of the authors within.
If you're looking for a mystery book written in the usual Dorothy Sayers style, skip this book. If you'd enjoy reading a mystery with a puzzle with many possible endings explored, this is the book for you! I really enjoyed it! It was the first book that I've read written by the members of the famous Detection Club. It will not be the last! Happy reading!
Quando não há nada de bom para dizer mais vale não dizer nada.
Wanting the matter brought to a satisfactory conclusion as quietly as possible, the Home Secretary asks four famous detectives – Mrs Adela Bradley, Sir John Saumarez, Lord Peter Wimsey and Mr Roger Sheringham to investigate the murder, the only stipulation being that none of them can seek aid from the police.First things first, despite her name being featured prominently on the cover, Agatha Christie did not write any or all of Ask a Policeman.
Sayers wrote for Roger Sheringham while Anthony Berkeley had Lord Peter Wimsey as his detective.Despite, or perhaps because of, its unusual premise, Ask a Policeman is neither particularly ingenious nor particularly entertaining.
The Detection Club books are more like writing exercises than stories, and with that in mind I liked it for what it was. This one had the authors trade sleuths, and present a solution at the end of that character's segment. Anthony Berkeley's merciless skewering of Peter Wimsey was the hilarious standout (in addition to providing a cracking solution), some of the others were lost on me, as I wasn't familiar with the source material. Milward Kennedy's resolution was by comparison (and in his own words) a cheat, and a little disappointing.
2.5 stars.While a nice parody, of the same death, with different detectives and different solutions yet the outcome was the same as I had determined already.Had Agatha Christie done a collaborative piece we may have had one of her famous detectives come up with the same outcome.
I enjoyed the different approach that Sir Philip took to get this murder solved.
I quite enjoyed the way that John Rhode set it up.I also liked that each of the detectives had a different way about figuring out who dunnit it.
I am really confused because they almost had two different solutions at the end of the novel.
I feel like there was no clear definitely answer for the reader at the end of "Ask A Policeman" which is why I was so confused.
I mean, I have an idea, but who knows.I would have given this book 4 stars had I not been confused at the end of this novel.
Not only are the various chapters of this written by different Golden Age authors (some of whom have retained their fame, e.g., Dorothy Sayers; some of whom are comparatively unknown, e.g., Helen Simpson), but the editors have "mistakenly" assigned each one the wrong detective to write about.
When a millionaire newspaper owner is killed in his study, everyone has a motive--including his visitors, who include an archbishop, the opposing Party Whip, and the assistant commissioner of police.
By the end, too many of these people blurred for me, and the "summing up" ending, after all the detectives had chosen a culprit, was both confusing and unconvincing.
But it was a fun ride for a long time.
Fantastic, and the satire was funny.
An anthology of defferent detectives who was trying to solve a murder case which assigned with dissimilar conclusion.
Each "Detection Club" will give you a clear case what happened, and 'you' as a reader will picked a sleuth who you'd think deserving upon solving the case.The Comstock mystery case......I really enjoyed it.
Hopefully, the "Detection Club" will make some more stories, and this time each of them will provide the miscreant at the end.
I think.......my opinion "Lord Peter Wimsey" was closed solving the mystery which he thinks that it's the Secretary of Comstock murdered him.
An ingenious collaboration of some of the finest members of the Detection Club.
I especially appreciated their difficulty in switching main characters (though I did NOT appreciate Anthony Berkeley turning my beloved Lord Peter into a thundering idiot in truth as well as facade, especially when Sayers handled his Roger Sheringham so exquisitely).
The final solution (or was it ...?) was neat in its simplicity, even if its author did "cheat" in introducing new facts and dismissing certain others.There are always difficulties in this sort of collaboration, but these fine mystery writers handled it better than most.
A thoroughly enjoyable romp through the Golden Age of detective fiction!
The book was put together in an interesting way, with different authors writing different parts.As I was reading, I was confused though, because I had not realised that each of these authors would solve the case. So once a chapter ended, the next chapter had the new amateur sleuth solving the case again.With all the different solutions and descriptions of how the detective arrived at this conclusion, reading became a bit tedious. I felt relief when the book was done.
Considering it is the work of six authors, four writing using established characters that aren't their own, this reads well.Some inconsistencies but all in all a period puzzle whodunit that's an enjoyable read.Would be good to see more examples of a similar kind from different generations of the Detection Club.
Fun to have several mystery writers writing solutions for each other's detectives, but somewhat tedious by the end, after each has worked through the same case. Helen Simpson's version of Mrs. Bradley was my favorite, but I don't know if that was the detective (which means I need to get my hands on some Gladys Mitchell books) or the writer.
Very tedious and far too long. Having enjoyed The Floating Admiral by The Detection Club, I thought I'd try this one. John Rhode's opening is good but the switching of writers and their sleuths did not work well in my opinion. Berkeley's Wimsey was so well over-wimseyed as to make it ridiculous.I was very disappointed.
After an overly-long, but necessarily detailed, introductory set-up we're treated to four neat pastiches of eminent pre-war detective writers. Anthony Berkeley's gentle tweaking of Dorothy L. Sayers' whiskers with his description of Lord Peter Wimsey's luncheon is an unexpected treat!
This was really writers writing for each other, not for readers - a mystery round robin. But they were writing each others' characters; which must have been fun for them, but resulted in an oddly boring story.Almost unreadable. I had to force myself to keep reading.
Cada um dos "detectives" chegou a uma conclusão diferente, e até bastante credível, com os factos que lhe foram apresentados e por cada um deles esmiuçados e, afinal... o assassino é completamente imprevisível!!!Gostei!
This is a really fun, original and ingenious idea for a book - I love the way the authors take each others' detectives and parody them with such delight. The solutions are very clever, and I especially loved the footnotes in two of the chapters - they were hilarious! :-)
Policial bastante confuso. A edição portuguesa dá a ideia que também não está muito bem traduzida.Não gostei muito e por isso não recomendo.
I originally bought this book just because of the entry by Dorothy L. Sayers, one of my favorite mystery writers.
Ingenious.... an innovative concept superbly dealt with by expert practitioners of the genre
leu-se...
eehh. From a group of the best mystery writers ever, I expected more than a pretty ordinary plod.
I like the fact some of my favourite authors switched characters was an interesting take especially since each had a different solution to the problem.
