https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144792.Temple
So the rare Thyrium -261 element, which the beautiful but fearsome idol is made from, took a very long, long time to get here, millions of years, the Incas found the rock and carved The Spirit of the People, shaped like a cat's head, from the black , purple stone and made it their symbol .
The Nazis arrive, kill many people, flee on the nearby river in an armada with the idol, followed by Col. Nash's team , exciting battles commence, bullets fly, planes are shot down, bombs explode, boats destroyed, amazon caiman reptiles eat a lot, then the terrorists and U.S.Navy also come, not to mention his brother Marty working for the other side.
Some of my favorite (laugh out loud) moments, were when Reilly felt like he had to accentuate his action scenes by throwing in an exclamation point at the end of the sentence, as if saying, well, if the image I'm describing isn't getting you thrilled enough, then I'll just force you into it with a shocking exclamation point thrown in at the end.
One of the aspects would have been enough: world-destroying weapon, giant panthers, ancient Inca treasure, modern day Nazis, Armed Forces conspiracy, to name a few.
I’ve been having problems working on my review of this one… I had in mind to write one of those reviews where I explain what actually goes down in this book without saying “fuck” “shit” “OMG” and “WTF” and not talking about the weird shit that happened around me while I was trying to read this book… but instead I was going to talk about the non-stopping action, plot twist that left me completely surprised… I was planning on talking about the Nazis!!!
Rapas are awesome!!!
NAZI EATING GIANT CATS!!!!
NAZI EATING GIANT CATS!!!!
"At that exact same moment" I lost count of the number of times I would have thrown a physical book away.
The central premise of the Thyrium and the Super Nova were handled so badly, it was clear Reilly doesn't know much about nuclear physics.
The falling tank would have been a great scene if I hadn't already grown to despise the book and just wanted to get to the end so that it would just be over.One bonus is that I can be much more confident in my own writing, knowing that something like this can actually get published.
The non-stop action and almost cinematic experience would appeal to many people - including myself.BUT...(and there is a huge but)There were several things about this book which completely ruined it for me, and as exciting as the events were, they just weren't enough.FIRST COMPLAINT:I could not get over the extraordinary use of italics and exclamation marks!Sure, these techniques may add emphasis at the right time, but there is a time and a place.
If the actual events weren't difficult enough to believe in the first place, it certainly doesn't help when you sound so bloody overdramatic!I'm currently reading Ice Station and am disappointed that the same thing is happening (though considerably less, yay!).SECOND COMPLAINT:I by no means consider myself an expert on ancient South American cultures.
I'll admit that the characters are often not overly free of cliché, but that said if you ever want to read something fast, fun and that reads like the explosive action of a blockbuster film then Reilly's your Australian.In Temple I learned facts about Black Caimans*, read about mysterious pseudo-scientific ideas that while fake still sounded realistic enough, learnt about the power that grappling hooks can be as weapons and read about lots and lots of body counts.
I think about one hundred people at minimum died (there may have been more...).Temple, uniquely of all of Reilly's books that I've read, has a split narrative.
Part 3 in a four-book review of Matthew Reilly's novelsContest -> Ice Station ->  Temple  -> Seven Ancient Wonders<=  Ice Station .... couldn't believe it! This, I believe, is Matthew's third novel, and by now he had devolved almost to the level he attained in the only other of his books that I read.But for now, let's stay with this one. True to his chosen trademark, Matthew creates a plot which is so far removed from reality that it cannot seriously be considered any more as a thril
This, I believe, is Matthew's third novel, and by now he had devolved almost to the level he attained in the only other of his books that I read.But for now, let's stay with this one.
We need a jetpack which is able to fire jets with a force sufficient to neutralise the speed of a falling tank.
Delta velocity, in this case, is the velocity of the falling tank one second before impact, as we require a force sufficient to make William just hover at a distance above the ground.
But the sheer adrenaline kick of reading this book will keep you going.
There seems like there will be a relationship between him and a woman who goes along on the mission, and the way that it ends is sad.
But I'm not sure Race can handle a relationship when this book ends.
He has his hands full between the 'bad guys' he knows about and the ones lurking in the shadows.
It's one of those books where you're holding your breath and hoping that most of the characters make it out alive.
Reilly is definitely an autobuy because this guy knows how to write an action book.
plot mechanism.If you either care or know absurdly little about physics, probability, or just about anything -- well, then you might be entertained by the non-stop action and cliff-hanger twists and turns in Reilly's plots.The first of his books, and the first I read, was Contest, and earned three stars for its over-the-top hyperactive attitude.
But the others are all more absurd, more reliant on unrealistic technology and impossible physics, without plots that compensate.
Action Adventure Mystery Amazing couldn't put it down. Superb in its telling, an thrilling adventure. With unforgettable heroes and rip roaring action.

People hate on Matthew Reilly something fierce. Yes, he isn't the best writer in the world, but he doesn't have to be to do what he does; he writes fast-paced, actiony schlock, and it is brilliant; if you expect realism or sensible plots, I think you've wildly missed the point.Temple is possibly the most absurd and campy novel that he's written, and I still inhaled the fucking thing and loved every minute of it. Lighten up or go back to your Tolkien.Read for Aussie Readers' October 2013 "Exotic Location" Challenge
SERIOUSLY?Okay. I love what I call "adventure" novels. I expect some crazy absurdities when it comes to what the characters can do; rope swinging, narrowly missing sword slashes, crazy animal wrestling, and the like. This book was so over the top most of the time I just rolled my eyes because it was so absurd. Standing on the nose of an airplane (a college professor mind you), reaching to another military plane, pushes a button on the outside of said plane and opens to the hatch...then jumps in
This book was so over the top most of the time I just rolled my eyes because it was so absurd.
It got to the point that when I read anything in italics (which happened at least 10 times a page) I read it in a teenage, giddy, 'I've got a crush on boy" kind of way.
Often times it was written on a level that I would consider an adult read.
It was a struggle each time I picked it up to read it, suppress giggles, and contain my eyes in their natural position because of the chronic eye-rolling I was doing because of this written nonsense.
Was it the worst book I've ever read?
A re-read for about the forth time because I was out of new fiction and wanted something fun and fast after finishing The Casual Vacancy.It is a better book than The Casual Vacancy?
If you want Incans, Nazis, doomsday cults, Green Berets, DARPA, river chases, lots of guns and explosions, and don't care much about the laws of physics, Reilly is your guy.It's over-the-top action, but Reilly did it better in Temple, Contest and Ice Station that his latter books, as he was trying to write a good, fast story, rather than continually trying to top his previous works in terms of straining credibility (his Jack West series takes so many liberties with reality that they make Temple seem like a documentary).
First half of the book gone by so quickly, non-stop action.
I will dig in on the 2nd half of the book.
Come to the end of this book...have to say quite a story.
Hero (now the hero) Race is quite steam with action even though he is not train to be one.
Some great high-tech written weapons and equipments...equipments that save last moment of life like diving from the sky.
Even the Native Incas has a part in it to save the idol.
MR has once again did well and I hope to read more about William Race in the next book adventure.
"The young monk sobbed uncontrollably as the cold barrel of the gun was placed firmly against his temple." From cover to cover author Matt Reilly keeps the action cranked up in his overly long novel "Temple." The focus of the book is a frenzied search for an Incan idol that was fashioned long ago from an asteriod.
William Race, a professor with expertise in ancient languages, is essentially kidnapped to help with the search as various rogue groups including the military spare no expense to find the idol.
And by no expense we're talking lives, and also military weapons and vehicles, which are endlessly described in detail.
I LOVE Matt Reilly!
This is his second book that I've read and once again, I just couldn't put it down.
What an action packed book, that just keeps you turning the pages.
He's just such a great guy!And yes, I'll admit, sometimes the action sequences are a little long, maybe even a little over-the-top, but I still love 'em!
I will definitely be reading another Reilly book in the VERY near future, and recommend this to everyone and anyone, what a nice change of pace!
This is my favourte Reilly book so far. It's a big fat blockbuster of a book but I ploughed through it in a couple of days. It's very edge-of-your-seat stuff, written in a cinematic style so it feels more like watching a fast paced action movie than reading a book.The story has two timelines, one set in the time of the Spanish conquest of the Incas and the other in Peru of 1999. The unlikely hero is William Race, a mild mannered, likable linguisitcs expert who, during this story, finds himself on a mission to save the world.
Good grief, I think I'm in love. Matthew Reilly has done it again. His books get my blood pumping and rooting for the good guys, yes, aloud! Course, many may say the action in his novels are pretty far fetched but I don't care! It's fiction after all and as long as I can visualize it in my mind while reading it, it's all good!
I usually love this kind of novels, packed with action and some history between it`s pages.
It has been compared with Indiana Jones, but haven read two of the books when I was younger I could say that this one was way longer (shorter could have been a more good choice) and more intricate (not in the good way) that a Indiana J novel.I guess i`ll stick with two stars for my part.
It was an enjoyable action book to read, with over the top battle/action sequences, and an insane world-ending threat (although it is motive that I think is pretty flat, I personally believe that giving the antagonist[s] a world ending motive is a bit of a cop out, avoiding adding depth and authenticity to their characters - they are just evil for the sake of being evil).
Personally, I think we could have reduced the competing enemies for the sake of giving one depth that would add to their character.
Well now it was a ride, like all MR's books this was also a crazy ride of non-stop action but most of all I loved his interview at the end of the book where he wasn't even sure if he would still be read 10 years later.
Well MR you still rock and you will rock for years to come.
This book has story going on in 2 time lines and both are engaging and awesomeLoved this book, love all MR books this one was left when I finished all his books earlier.
I will say it time and time again, but Matthew Reilly writes exciting, upbeat action better than most authors I've read. His thrilling pace, weathered characters and well thought out mysteries are enough to make any action fan swoon. Although I do not actively add Reilly's work to my TRL, whenever I come across a book of his I haven't read I can't resist the temptation of picking it up and losing myself in a book where I too, am a badass action hero.After all, don't we all like to think of ourselves as badasses sometimes?
"What struck Race most about the carving was how alive it looked. Through a combination of skilled craftsmanship and the unusual nature of the stone itself, it seemed as if the rapa had somehow been imprisoned inside the lustrous black-and-purple stone and was now trying—manically, ferociously, rabidly—to force its way out of it. 'The stone,' Race thought as he gazed at the thin veins of purple that snaked their way down the snarling rapa’s face, giving it an extra level of anger and malevolenc
There are plenty of books that are better suited to those people, and they are welcome to them, but for anybody who loves to be entertained and amazed by a story that's a little unbelievable but at the same time incredibly fun, pick up Temple.I listen to most of Matthew's books via audio CD's while I'm working, so I don't exactly notice the exclamation marks he seems to favor, but I have read a few and while they do seem excessive at times, they're part of the charm for me.
From start to finish, this book is a roller-coaster of energy and intent, something that the dual perspective format only seems to emphasize as opposed to detract from.On one hand, you have William Race, a Professor of Ancient Languages who is thrown head-first into a manhunt for a lost Incan idol.
The only clue to the idol's final resting place lies in a 400-year old manuscript, and a brilliant young linguist is unwittingly recruited to translate the manuscript and to lead the US Army to a mysterious temple where the idol is hidden.
But it is only when they open the temple doors when they discover they have broken a golden rule—some doors are meant to be unopened.The army group is led by unlikely hero William Race, a linguist brought along on the journey to translate the 400-year-old manuscript revealing the location of the idol.
There's always room for a good adventure thriller novel in my to read box.
Ok, I do enjoy action/adventure stories, and I give them a lot of leeway when characters seem a little contrived or forced, for example, simply because the action *is* the whole real focus of books like this.
Also, while I do "get" that in books like this it's ok for the nerd/underling protagonist to become a bit more heroic or athletic than you'd ever expect in real life (or another genre), this protagonist (a professor of ancient languages who was somewhat athletic in school) would have embarrassed Superman.
(Any way to get the money back?) As if introducing uncountable number of characters is not enough, they need to change colour and allegiance every few pages, just to give our hero another chance to defy death and another impending doom to prevent, magically.
I know thrillers are cheap, usually no brainers where laws of physics are like laws on the constitution, break them when it's convenient.
Introducing iron man and super man would be fun and closer to reality actually.
Did they make a movie from it, by the way?
I have to admit that I was apprehensive about reading more Matt Reilly books after I read the Scarecrow series because I didn't think it would compare and I'd be dissappoint...not true, I loved this book!!
The way Reilly writes it makes it extremely hard to find a spot to stop reading at....you really can't put the book down :) GREAT JOB Mr. Reilly!
I can't to read 6 Sacred Stones.
Actually 7 Deadly Wonders is the first book I read that got me into these types of books that led to reading James Rollins and Clive Cussler...
What a rush!
I really enjoyed this, and didn't expect to read so many pages so quickly!
I love the setting, and the adventure attached to mysterious lands and ancient legends.
The military angle is not really my thing but it's always fast action so still entertaining.
Everything about the temple itself and its incredible surroundings held me captivated.
Wasn't exactly the Indiana Jones-type novel I was expecting but it was jam packed with action and I absorbed it all.
I particularly enjoyed the split storylines, and looked forward to each jump back to the past!
Very entertaining.
This had me dreaming of an overseas holiday, because this is quintessentially an "Airport Novel" -- it has all the elements: a search for lost treasure, exotic locations (Peru), lots of carefully enumerated military hardware, conspiracies, Nazis, not to mention continuous, breathtaking and incredible (i.e. impossible to believe) action.
Somewhat endearingly, Reilly often uses italics when describing some moment of particularly hard to believe action, as though he can hardly believe it himself.
Let it be said that, although this ain't literature, it did have me reading it from start to end in one (long) day.
Perfect for your next holiday.
