https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100365.The_Mote_in_God_s_Eye
Good science fiction.
Heinlein himself is quoted as saying something to the effect that this was the best science fiction novel he had ever read.
David Allen Coe claimed to have sang the perfect country and western song, and in that same regard, Niven and Pournellle may have collaborated to create the perfect science fiction novel, it contains all of the important elements: future, space travel, time travel, aliens, space ships, laser blasters, planetary colonies, etc.
Whoever created the 1980s film Gremlins may have read The Mote in God’s Eye and been inspired by the miniature Moties, or watchmakers.
There is nothing in this review that would surprise you if you've read the dust jacket and have a passing familiarity with tvtropes.org.The story opens as tough-guy Commander Rod Blaine gets back from saving damsel Sally Fowler from evil rebels on New Chicago, where they all speak like Chicaehhhgans and of course their economy is of course heavy industrial (this pattern plays out in all planet-from-a-place instances in this book).
The author apparently couldn't bear to characterize a female scientist as being able to present a clinical view of the thing.Another thing you might feel more strongly in this book than in others is the idea that religion will still be important to people when they're flying around in space.
The Mote in God's Eyeis generally considered to be their partnership’s best book (have a look at Larry Niven’s Goodreads page).I believe the blurb by Robert A.
These few terms notwithstanding I would argue that The Mote in God's Eye stands the test of time very well.
Both authors are excel at writing hard science fiction and the science details make the story that much more vivid and believable without ever bogging the book down with excessive infodumping.
The “dramatis personae” at the beginning of the book kindly provided by the authors to help the readers keep track of a fairly large cast of characters is an interesting feature.
Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle gives as right from the prologue a couple of millenia of our space faring future, complete with technological breakthroughs, explosive colonisation followed by economic collapse, imperialism and rebellion, space fleets modelled after the British colonialism Navy, complete with its highly exclusivist social structure.The detailed setup, and the lively introduction of the Hero, in the incarnation of a young and daring scion of a noble family who distinguishes himself as temporary ship captain in putting down an armed insurrection on a colony world, is merely the background for the most important event humanity has faced so far: first contact with an alien civilization.
Lucifer's Hammer concerns the collapse of society in the face of a comet impact on Earth.
Once we meet the aliens, known as Moties, it takes many more pages before we learn anything about the society.
No and No. All the more galling the Church apparently hasn't changed much at all in a millennium.There is a decent story about alien contact amongst all its problems, but it is such a short part of the book, it is probably not worth working your way through to find it.
The Mote in God's Eye is probably the finest contemplation of a human-alien first contact that I have ever read.
The story deals out a sizable cast of characters without seeming overwhelming.
Mote explores every issue from multiple perspectives, leaving no room for good vs.
evil simplifications despite that fact that some characters are not likable.
The core theme of the book - that a superior alien intelligence is limited by its inability to tolerate ideas based in hope and imagination - evolves slowly enough to maintain interest and tension throughout the "slower" (i.e. non-action-packed) sections of the book.
All in all a wonderful set of characters to journey through the difficulties of first contact with.There are a lot of considerations when two intelligent species meet in space for the first time.
How much information can you learn about the other without giving away too much of your own nature?
It makes things very difficult for both parties I think.
There is one main female human character.
And I was pleased to have a female character in an action / military scenario who didn't have to kick ass just to be there.
What could have been a decent fist-contact story is completely undercut by poor character writing, lazy sexism, lack of actual critical thinking about human society, and a science fiction plot twist that itself undercuts the book's lazy sexism.
And heck, women are people shaped by their society too and often buy into the sexist assumptions of their society, so the sexist views of one of the female characters in a book isn't a deal-breaker either.
The sexism latent in the society of the story is entirely unquestioned, as is the racist of the character stereotypes.
Heinlein called it "possibly the finest science fiction novel I have ever read." It easily makes my Top 10 Sci/Fi Book List.The story is set in the year 3017 A.D. The Second Interstellar Empire of man is in the process of forcefully reuniting many colonies long lost since the collapse of the 1st Empire, when an alien slower-than-light space craft enters the New Caledonia system coming from the direction of the Coalsack Nebula.
Well, this was a fascinating book.
I can't imagine the thoroughness of invention in creating the Moties, and making sure the science of this book was as believable as could be with known science, especially at the time.
It's truly astonishing.I WILL say that I wasn't caught up in the book in a way that I couldn't stop turning pages: I found it a bit hard to get through, the characters were not particularly engrossing PERSONALLY, but the plot and particularly world-building were so deep and fascinating that it kept me picking the book up again and again.Definitely one of the more important sci-fi books out there, highly recommended!
To quote a line "pretty good yarn".Enjoy.(view spoiler)[While the Moties themselves are fairly "new" (not the idea of a genetically predetermined cast society but the repetitive collapse of said society and the reason for said collapse) but also the meeting of the two civilizations and the differences.
The Moties have gone so far as to establish a museum where all the advances of said society are preserved so that when the civilization collapses again, they won't lose it all and start over completely....again.Why does the society collapse periodically?
A political novel about first contact with extra-terrestrials27 November 2014 To me there seems to be something about these pre-1980's science fiction novels that I am drawn towards reading. Maybe it has something to do with being influenced by my Dad to read the Isaac Asimov novels, or more likely it has something to do with my life long passion for science-fiction. However, the books written in my father's generation seem to have a lot more character, and a lot more insight, than much of the r
The Mote in God's Eye is a story, set a thousand years from now when humanity has colonised space, about the first contact with aliens (at is sentient extra-terrestrial life).
At this point though, I better warn you:	The novel begins with a probe entering human space from a star called the Mote.
As I was reading this book I was really interested in finding out what they looked like, so of course I entered 'Motie' into Google Images, and came up with a number of pictures.
The reason that Australians do not want asylum seekers to come to our shores is because we like our space, and our free standing houses.
I've read a lot of Niven and Pournelle's collaborations over the years, and at the height of my Very White Space Opera phase (i.e., when I was a teenager with no taste and liked anything with spaceships and aliens in it) Niven was one of my favorite authors.The Mote in God's Eye was their first collaboration, and never having read it before, I was expecting something like Footfall.
When the humans finally figure out the truth, they face a real moral dilemma.Where The Mote in God's Eye fails, though, is characterization of the non-aliens.
Like so many books I’ve read, The Mote in G-d’s Eye was recommended to me by father, many years ago.
In any case, I’ve been on more of a sci-fi kick lately, and Starladustess had equally good things to say about this one, so I finally knuckled under and read it.The Mote in G-d’s eye is a story about first contact, set in the year 3016.
Solid science fiction about first contact, set in a universe where humanity reached the stars, fractured, and has slowly knit itself back together under imperial/aristocratic power.
This doesn't actually come through that much for much of the book, other than mentioning that one of the main characters will have a title one day.
And then at the end, we're thrust into imperial politics with little preparation - it's interesting, but a bit jarring.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
One of my 100 best books ever, and usually makes my Top Ten SF novels list.
Ol' Bob Heinlein, who knew a bit about the field, called it "possibly the best contact-with-aliens story ever written" (up to c.
And female readers will note the light representation for their half of the human species (Females are better-represented in the alien moties, albeit with an sfnal twist).
But, once the book gets rolling, I'll bet it keeps you up late.
My booklog lists three reads, but I'm pretty sure there were one of two more.
On the reread list for circa 2021.
An excellent read & raises a lot of interesting thoughts for me. It's about contact with an alien civilization in a more interesting setting than most. Makes me think a lot about some of our civilizations. Well worth reading & a classic of science fiction.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. One of the best first contact SF novels ever and certainly among the best from the duo of Niven and Pournelle. Epic in scope and including one of the best descriptions of an alien society ever put to paper. A true classic. Highly recommended!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1975)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1975)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1975)
I should read more space opera, especially when written by Niven and Pournelle.
The human Empire (Russian in origin, which seemed odd considering in 1974 when first published, the USSR was Communist not Imperialist) has first contact with aliens from a system referred to as "The Mote." Communication is key, but as expected, truth is the first casualty in diplomacy and war.
By the time I reached the end, having had bits of both sides of the story, I kept wishing and hoping ...
I caught my friend Ryan reading some cheesy looking sci-fi and thought maybe I should give the genre a try. Outside of HG Wells, I haven't had much exposure since I was a teenager. This story is well written, but ungodly slow. Hell, I have the patience to read, but this one is mostly discussion and very little action. The story hits a climax two-thirds of the way through and then runs out of steam. I give it three stars for being thought provoking.
review to come later
The Mote in God’s Eye, co-written by frequent collaborators Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle, is a classic First Contact science fiction story which Robert A.
Besides its regular crew, MacArthur has a couple of civilian passengers temporarily on board: Horace Bury, a trader and political prisoner, and Sally Fowler, a cultural anthropologist (how fortuitous) and senator’s niece.It turns out that the alien in the probe ship is dead, but the humans figure out where the home planet must be, so Roderick Blaine, Sally Fowler, Horace Bury, a priest, the crew of MacArthur and a team of scientists are sent on a diplomatic mission to the planet they call Mote Prime.
A brilliant and gripping book. One of the best jobs of creating a truly alien life form, culture and civilization, rather than the usual "aliens" who act just like human beings who happen to look different - and then going on to let the human reader see events through those alien eyes, from their perspective. The human characters are also well developed and the plot serves as a gripping mystery as well as an adventure story, and left me with a strong sense of empathy for the individuals of both civilizations being affected by forces larger than any one character.
Publicada en 1974, la verdad es que no se ha quedado casi nada obsoleta, como suele pasar en estos casos, en que el mundo ha cambiado tanto de un tiempo a esta parte, que la especulación sobre ciertos temas, sobre todo en política y tecnología, son abordados de manera equivocada.Año 3017 d.C. La Humanidad ha colonizado cientos de mundos, pero todavía no se ha localizado vida inteligente.
Esto provoca que no se profundice en ningún personaje, se pasa superficialmente por sus motivaciones, pensamientos, etcétera.La primera parte de la novela se lee bien, es el preludio a lo que el lector está esperando ansiosamente: El Encuentro.
(I am eager to read any suggestions in the "First Contact" category which may approach this puppy.) Just as a great romance novel succeeds because of the misunderstandings between the protagonists; here God's Eye really shines due to the misunderstandings between the humans and the Moties.It's actually hard to find anything wrong with God's Eye. Yes, with a copyright of 1974, the slant on women is a bit dated--one woman on a ship with hundreds of men may confuse today's female readers as much as the alien Moties were confused by this.
This was a fun, old-school first contact story. It's got a good, interesting plot, with interesting aliens and problems. Good use of both mystery and literary irony. I especially like the ambiguous way it ended.The characterization didn't fully work for me -- there were several characters that I never managed to differentiate. This might be an artifact of having read the audiobook version (which sounds like it's read by Zapp Brannigan, which is hilarious).
Wow, over 38,500 ratings. One of the first books I bought after becoming a library director, and one of the few SFF I've enjoyed rereading. Ah, Moties. Even recommended it to some library patrons who were not science fiction readers.
It has everything: human galactic civilization, space battles, heroic spacemen, counter-plots, and very alien aliens.
This is one of the best science fiction books ever written.The plot in basic: In the far future, humanity has expanded to the stars.
Eventually, the humans make contact with the new civilization, only to find the aliens have reasons of their own for venturing into the galaxy.
When they wrote the book, the idea of galactic empires seemed retro, but they researched the possibility enough to make it believable.
The book focuses on the ideas and concept of The First Contact.Still one of the best science fiction novels I have read.
Hmm.list of charactershttp://www.adherents.com/lit/bk_Niven...Commander Jock (Sandy) Sinclair - Scottish engineer??Potter has an accent tooLady Sandra Liddell Leonovna Bright Fowler = SallyDr. Sigmund Horowitz = annoying science guyBuckman - astrophysicistJonathan Whitbread - humorous and roundHorst Staley - handsomeLafferty?Aliens - Jock, Ivan, Charly...What's that word, fiatchhh?22% - Ohhhh, the female engineer is the alien!
The audiobook needs 'italics'.32% - handsome Horst Staley doesn't deserve to be in the character list?44% - Hmmm, where is this going?50% - I wish these mysterious aliens would start shooting lasers at us or something!58% - Ok, there's some action now, at least with the mini-moties.64% - Wierd...76% - Sure has a long buildup.90% - Still waiting for that epic battle to begin.
I found all the characters to be interesting, even some who were almost caricatures, but I especially liked Renner and Hardy.
The Moties were painted quite sympathetically, but always with some doubt as to their intentions.
Interesting how each race (human and Motie) had trouble really grasping how alien the other race was.
The sexist themes were a bit much for me--no women in the Navy, only one woman scientist who explains to the Moties on the place of women in human society and seems to accept that place quite willingly, and the fact that the Moties didn't seem to be able to figure out birth control that wasn't deadly to individuals or the race.
