https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84405.Fancies_and_Goodnights
To quote Collier (1901-1980): "Howinteresting life is when things get like that!""Bottle Party" -- A lonely fella buys a bottle with a full-rigged ship inside.
She assures our hero that she and the rich coot she married are just "friends" ; why, the man is deaf and almost blind and he's lost the use of all his senses.
A lovesick youth seeks a love potion.
"That is love," exults the youth...who must have it.
"I like to oblige," says the wizard.Many of Collier's ironic fables were published in The New Yorker in the 30s and 40s, when that magazine actually published memorable fiction.
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hGgit...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017Reading Collier is like using a jewel-encrusted onyx knife to slice up a wheel of Camembert. Decadent, rewarding, sinister and wonderful. (Man look who's turning all fancy poetsy!)
These stories by John Collier--who spent most of his career in Hollywood, where he was instrumental in the tone and style of such shows as Alfred Hitchcock Presents and The Twilight Zone--are marvelous examples of a sort of short story that hardly exists anymore: sharp, satirical, and mordant flights of fantasy where every O.
Collier's style is dated (in a good way) but never less than brisk, crisp and utterly suited to the ideas at hand.Ah for the days when you could write stories about shops that sell djinns in a bottle or humorously murderous husbands and wives--and sell them to magazines that actually paid.
This man is a genius. He can write a story about a man falling in love with a department store mannequin and make it more touching than any romance novel. He's clever to the point of hilarity. His wit makes it feel like he's winking at you between the pages. The opening to one of my favourite stories, Hell Hath No Fury, goes like this: "As soon as Einstein declared that space was finite, the price of building sites, both in Heaven and Hell, soared outrageously."
Then these stories are for you – you’ll know many natural and supernatural, normal and paranormal phenomena of this world.“The tablets were not long in taking effect.
He shut off that engine which drives us from one moment to the next, and prepared to glide into the valley of the shadow.The glide was a long one.
He anticipated no landing, and was the more surprised to learn that there is no such thing as nothing, while there is quite definitely such a thing as being dead in the most comfortable bedroom in all Mutton's Hotel.”And then you’ll find yourself Halfway to Hell…
But this collection contains something like 32 stories.
A small handful of the stories have supernatural elements, but the rest are mundane, and the supernatural ones are told with the same level of ironic detachment and arrogance so that it is impossible to feel any sense of estrangement or awe or wonder at any of the supernatural elements.
But 2/14 is just not good enough, and while I may be missing a small handful of worthy stories in the second half, it's just not worth the schlep to get through them.
FANCIES AND GOODNIGHTS. (1951). John Collier. ****. Sometimes I come across books that I’ve never heard of by authors I’ve never heard of either, and wonder where I’ve been all my life. This is a case in point. John Collier (1901-1980) was an English poet, author and screenwriter who was very popular in his day, primarily for his skill at developing movie scripts. Case in point: he was the cowriter on “The African Queen,” along with James Agee and John Huston. He was also the writer of “Elephant
Case in point: he was the cowriter on “The African Queen,” along with James Agee and John Huston.
He was also the writer of “Elephant Boy,” and “I Am A Camera,” adapted from “Berlin Stories” and later turned into “Cabaret.” His short stories were featured in “The New Yorker” on a regular basis.
He also wrote a novel (which I have ordered) entitled, “His Monkey Wife.” This book is a collection of his short stories – shich shouldn’t be missed.
They edge on the macabre, with the premise of “what if.” I’m not good at reviewing short story collections.
They are mostly very short tales, many of which have an ordinary setting but contain some element of the fantastical or macabre; others are more explicitly fantasy, but somehow the style is too traditional and matter-of-fact for the book to really feel like it belongs within the fantasy genre.
There is also an unpleasantly sexist edge to many of them which, at the beginning, I was able to ignore, but after encountering the same thing repeatedly story after story, it became exhausting and the whole book started to seem offensive.
Stories where characters get their comeuppance in odd and clever ways. Reminds me of Roald Dahl's short stories for adults, but to my mind Dahl is the better writer. Dahl's stories tend to be a little longer, as he spends more time on character and on creating suspense. But a fun read. "Youth from Vienna," may be my favorite of the collection. (Didn't read the NYRB edition, don't know if that has more or other/better stories).
Clever, I guess in odd bits. But why all the pretensions of Literary merit? For the most part these are simple SF zingers, even more anecdotal and less narratively rich than episodes of "Twilight Zone." Is it because somehow the macabre is awarded esteem solely on account of the cynical sardonic effect it has on the pseudo-intellectual (I'm thinking of Edward Gorey...)? Eh, not that it matters. I really cannot recommend this in any case. Not only is it appallingly sexist, it's trivial. And *two* pieces about department store mannequins? Really?
A pass-along from my mom some time ago, I finally took a look at this collection of short stories.The reviews on Amazon compare Collier's short stories to Saki or Roald Dahl, but I got more of an early Theodore Sturgeon feel, with perhaps a touch of Flannery O'Connor.
However, the dark humour and twist endings make for some entertaining reading.
Not too many happy endings, just appropriate ones.
In fact, they were even happier, for people were not looking at them all the time and their joys were not restricted by the censorship code."She's altogether beyond our class.
They are formulaic, always with a twist, usually a husband realizing he's been cuckolded and then killing his wife, mostly violent.
The Devil arrives and behaves like any young man with lots of confidence, experience, and money.
People lie, claiming that money isn't important to them and love is but then plotting the murder of spouses for insurance claims.
As I said the stories are a formulaic and so we come to expect crazy twists after awhile which dulls the whole effect, in a similar way to Store of the Worlds: The Stories of Robert Sheckley, but one of his stories by itself is totally amazing.
And then I guess I carried it with me when I drove to Denver unexpectedly, God there’s some beauty out West, and I hadn’t known I was going to do it and that’s the main thing really, not to know, to remind yourself that you don’t know, you can never know, there are things waiting around the corner for you.
Will I Keep It: Yeah, I guess so.

I grew up reading the stories of E.T.A Hoffmann, and Collier's stories are a more modern version of Hoffmann's romantic masterpieces: fantastic and fantastical, whimsy and witty, comical and terrifying at the same time. Collier has a flair for language, and it is a simple pleasure reading his stories. Most are not more than a few pages in length, but he conveys a lot in a few well chosen sentences. I cannot help but chuckle as I picture his stories in my mind, who knew that the drudgery life of fiends could be so entertaining.
Collier has just entered my personal pantheon of great gripping/uncanny story authors, with Roald Dahl, Shirley Jackson, Richard Matheson and Patricia Highsmith. Got a nice old used copy of this the other day, and am loving it, and plan to read his 'Evening Primrose' for my Thriling Tales Adult Storytime at the library.
A handful of these stories are truly amazing, the rest are merely good reads. And I mean "good reads" as a high compliment. The best, I think, are "Evening Primrose," "Witch Money," and "Thus, I Refute Beelzy." It's remarkable that such dark but smart and witty stories were such a staple of magazines like The New Yorker once. Bring 'em back!
I’m reading Fancies and Goodnights, a collection of short stories by John Collier with an introduction from Ray Bradbury.
Collier is not an author I was familiar with—in fact, this book was a gift—but in Ray Bradbury’s introduction he wrote, “I had never heard of John Collier, but when I got the book home the stories in it changed my life.” You can’t get much more intriguing than that!
Bradbury also wrote, “one reason John Collier has been forgotten is because he had an arched eyebrow and a strange smile… the stories here are not serious, and thank god for that.
Urban Fantasy - Short StoriesWhat a fun, quirky and gem of a book! Originally published in 1931, John Collier's stories feature black humor, wild twists, "the bizarre, the weird and the surrealistic ".Preface: " ... what if ... a hothouse orchid suddenly developed a bud that looked curiously like the face of Cousin Jane's missing cat?" "in the story "Green Thoughts", it also strikes him even more forcefully ... that Cousin Jane herself has mysteriously disappeared."An excellent choice for readers who love the bizarre and unexpected in fantasy/urban fiction.
I pick up this book once in a while for a quick read. It's fun, creative and many times with unexpected plot twists. But be aware that death is present in almost every story, even if in a humorous non psychopathic way. And hateful people always meet their fate, almost always anyways.
They’re imaginative and strange, and we can cleary see its influence on many authors after him (like Ray Bradbury and Roald Dahl), but many of the stories are a bit dated and one can easily predict where they’re heading.I also felt that it is a huge book of short stories not to be read on one take.
I believe these stories will better be appreciated if read with some other books in between.
Nevertheless, I appreciated his writing and imagination, and would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys strange stories and quick reads.Favorite ones:- Evening Primrose- Another American Tragedy- If Youth Knew, If Age Could- Interpretation of a Dream- Old Acquaintance- In the Cards
That brief story, with its never-saw-it-coming twist ending, enchanted me.
Virtually all of the characters are scoundrels, and if the protagonists were not done in by their own weaknesses and failings, they were defeated by antagonists who were even worse scoundrels than the protagonists.Almost all of the stories have a twist ending, and not an O.
Once I realized that virtually every story was going to have that twist, I started picking out the clues Collier would leave that presaged the end.
I got really tired of looking at it.

I read an earlier edition, which for a while was my favorite gift to give to friends and family. I also used to keep extra copies on hand in case I was invited along to a friend-of-a-friend's birthday at the last minute.Full of imagination, humanity, and plot twists befitting a writer for The Twilight Zone and Alfred Hitchcock Presents (as Collier was), this collection of short stories comes off as one part Evelyn Waugh, two parts Roald Dahl. There are some perfect stories in here, and they will stay with you.
This almost gets a five star. The fifty (FIFTY!) stories in this book are just about uniformly concise and excellent. The whole book has a fantastic-realistic tone, in which midcentury characters might either meet up with a demon or discover their lover's secret, and often both in conjunction. The dry approach works very well here. It's a great book to read in fits and starts on the subway, since you're always only about two pages from the end of a given story.
John Collier's short stories are a potent cocktail of fantasy, horror, and black humor: a seemingly whimsical trifle may nevertheless end with a bone-chilling twist, while a story of cold-blooded murder may be told with a twinkle in the eye. Fans of Saki or Roald Dahl, who both mined similar territory, owe it to themselves to read them if they haven't already.
Collier is a genius of the fabulist and imaginative short story. He should be better known than he is today. I have not read all the stories in this book, but the first half is brilliant. Highly recommended!
An English Twilight Zone. Alice In Wonderland grows up. Roald Dahl's wittier brother. Saki's cleverer cousin. The best read I've had in several years. When will NYRB publish more of him? Or find another comparable.
Like a shard of glass in the eye, these are stories meant to dazzle and lacerate.
I'm glad I happened upon this old edition in a used bookstore.
Neil Gaiman read one of these, "Evening Primrose," on a Halloween edition of Selected Shorts a few years ago, and it stuck with me.
I can see similarities to his own short stories, and can easily picture him as a kid, curled up with this collection, discovering the whimsy and sharp wit of a kindred spirit.
It doesn't hurt that the cover makes it look like a dubious second-hand grimoire.
Didn't get far. It's too much a product of its time in terms of racism and sexism. Aged poorly.
