https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5175.What_Looks_Like_Crazy_on_an_Ordinary_Day
Besides Ava, we have her big sister Joyce, their long-time friend Eddie, and a whole cast of younger women that live in Idlewild trying to do what they can to get by raising their young children.
Idlewild is very much a town like this and to see all of the characters trying to do their best to keep the place alive feels frustrating since you know that they are not going to be able to do much to stem the tide.
This is definitely not the sort of book I normally read, but I liked it because of that.
Faced with your own possibilities, the hard part is knowing a speech is not required.
All you have to say is yes." "And we danced too wild, and we sang too long, and we hugged too hard, and kissed too sweet, and threw back our heads and howled just as loud as we wanted to howl, because by now we were all old enough to know that what looks like crazy on an ordinary day looks a lot like love if you catch it in the moonlight."
Pearl Cleage affronta delle tematiche molto importanti con questo romanzo (l'HIV, la disoccupazione, la criminalità, le droghe, il sesso non protetto e le gravidanze indesiderate nella comunità afroamericana) e lo fa concentrandosi sul piccolo: le vicende della protagonista Ava, una parrucchiera di colore che torna al paese natale Idlewild, vicino a Chicago, dopo aver chiuso il suo negozio ad Atlanta, the black Mecca (così chiamavano una volta il ghetto di Harlem) a causa della diagnosi di HIV e del suo spargersi fra gli amici e soprattutto le clienti.
Normally I run like crazy from an 'Oprah's book club' selection - finding them self-righteous and/or overwritten. What a nice surprise to discover that this book was neither!I found myself emotionally engaged by Ava's situation and relationships and didn't tire of the narrative at all.I guess I've learned a little about my own particular literary prejudices by enjoying this book much more than I expected!
"Because what looks like crazy on an ordinary day can look like love howling if you see it in the moonlight"....this is the first cleage piece i read and it was supermoving...im already looking to collect all her work this was dope
I knew it being an Oprah book I wouldn't be all about it.
The story clunked along with not much to go on.
I knew on every turn what was going to happen.
Then the end happened....what the hell kind of ending was that?
I felt like it just stopped.
I don't like when the epilogues explain quickly what should have been explained in more chapters.
It seemed like the author just wanted to get the story out there and didn't want to build on the characters except to tell you why they were/weren't bad.It was a quick read anyway.
I really enjoyed this book. I had no idea what I was getting into from the description of the book. Really, the book is about two sisters, black women, who live in Idlewild, MI. The book focuses a lot on their personal journeys and one of the main themes is healthy sexuality, and teaching girls about how to find themselves - I loved it!
I first read this book when it was featured in Oprah's Book Club in the late 90s. (Full disclosure: I am an Oprahphile.) I absolutely LOVED it. Cleage's writing style is concise, yet complex. The characters that she builds are rich and dynamic. Reading a Cleage novel, you can picture things exactly how they are happening and I love that
I loved the book I felt extremely bad for the character Ava Johnson who was HIV positive. She felt judged and unwanted by society. But through tough times she went back to her hometown to refresh her mind and spend time with her strong sister Joyce. She unknowingly found true love and a new life she grew fund of.
On top of all that going on, the small town is now having break-ins, there is something weird going on with the Good Reverend and his wife from Chicago that just doesn’t seem right, the secret comes out in town that Ava is HIV positive and the boys in town make that news a living hell for Ava, AND Ava finds herself falling in love for the first time, but she is scared to because of knowing that her disease makes relationships hard and a future almost impossible.
This book has everything a good book should have: it's hilarious, the characters are people you'd want to hang out with for hours upon end, there's romance, and at least one character has devoted her life to making the world a better place. And I don't think it's much of a spoiler to say the plan is working. These characters are making their corner of the world a better place. And the whole book ends in a church, with everyone happy. The book is just perfect.
Fiery Ava Johnson's fast life as the owner of an Atlanta beauty parlor comes to a sudden end when she discovers that she is HIV positive.
Shunned by her peers in Atlanta, Ava decides to start a new life in more broad-minded San Francisco--but first she visits her older sister, Joyce, at their childhood home in Idlewild, Mich.
A former all-black resort, Idlewild is now just a small rural town crumbling fast under the weight of big city problems.
Soon Ava's visit extends into something more permanent as she joins Joyce's efforts to teach teenage mothers.
This work tackles serious subject matter with comedy and black sisterhood.
Review to follow.
Wasn't great, but wasn't terrible either.(don't think it should be a book of the month club choice but hey i don't make that call).
It's probably the only story about an AIDs patient who has a 'happy ending' I've ever read.
And somehow the whole:AVA: I have AIDS...EDDIE: Do you want to have sex with me?AVA: Yes...
No matter how much you like someone starting off in a relationship, I think you'd want to wait at least a couple of days after hearing that have AIDs to hop in the sack.
But I guess it's good of the author to dispel the many misconceptions of AIDs.Second, wasn't eddie in the military when Ava was only 8?
What looks like beautiful is an ordinary novel,I was excited when I started reading this book.
Hell, I fell in love with her language, her aura of truth, until I realized it was all a dream, so real you don't realize how false it is until you wake up: in this case toward the end of the book.Yes, I finished it but I was angry and unsatisfied, like when you expected a toy for Xmas and were given socks or the ice cream you just ate was low sugar.
Ava Johnson is almost the exact opposite of me.
Seriously, we have nothing in common--but I was drawn to her character in just the first page of the novel, when she discloses her big secret.
Her growth and progress through the novel were captivating, and Cleage really sucks you in to feeling as though you know Ava and all the other characters.
I highly recommend it to anyone--no matter how opposite you are from Ava.More at: http://leahslitandcoffee.blogspot.com/
I don't give too many 5-stars, but this one is well deserved. LOVED this book and so did my whole book club.
Interesting, sad, but uplifting in that there was always hope. A little dated.I found it pretty crazy that I discovered the book was about Idlewild, MI while driving through Idlewild.
Certainly not a book for everybody - poverty, drugs, AIDS - strange how much the world has changed but also how things never change.
Ava is spunky and speaks her mind and that’s appealing in a main character.
Her work with teen moms moved the story along nicely and provided a real nasty antagonist.
Eddie was an okay character, but he was a little too good.
He didn’t seem real.I really liked that the main character was living with HIV, but the story touched very little on the details of the reality.
It was nice that the story was about more than that, but it also seemed like Ava had her head buried in the sand.there's more on my blog http://stacybuckeye.wordpress.com/201...

There are a lot of reasons to like this book -- it's well written, has great style, interesting characters, and a hopeful message. But the reason I love it and reread it regularly is because it's about hair -- women's hair and what it means and the relationship women have with the people who touch their hair. And there's other stuff too -- you know, a plot and action and drama and romance. But the parts that always move me or make me think are the parts about hair.
I would have probably read this in a day had I not got it so late. I truly enjoyed this book, like I did not want to put it down. Perfect way to start my reading off this year right. I am excited to get the next book. This is such a beautiful story about unconditional love. This book really had me smiling hard reading certain parts. No matter the extent of the obstacles, love shined it's light above it all. AMAZING!!!
i didn't expect too much of this book, as i haven't heard anything about it before. i found it on scribd.com, to which i subscribe. and oh my - did i enjoy it - what a lovely story. i definitely want to read the second one too. the writing style is easy to read and i can totally hear and see the characters.
Given my feelings towards Oprah's book club books (great writing or agenda?), I was pleasantly surprised by this book. It tackles some pretty hard issues in our culture: racism, AIDS, how people can manipulate religion to serve their own purposes, and the nature of love.
I really liked this book. I bought it not knowing she came recommended from Oprah (I usually like Oprah's picks a lot) and just ended up loving it. Not a slow read by any means and I liked that it kept going without getting me bored at all.
Exactly the book I needed at this very moment in my life...I LOVE it when that happens!
Loved this book from page one. Bittersweet and redemptive.
I loved this book and everything Pearl Cleage write
Absolutely loved rading this book! The author writes very, very well and this story was so relatable for me. I look forward to reading more of her books.
