https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18801.The_Captive_The_Fugitive
but along the way, making some really astute commentaries on human relationships and the love process.i started out with this one, like all the rest, going bookmark-crazy every time i came across a passage i thought was lovely or reminiscent of something in my own life, but if i had kept it up, there would have been a bookmark on every page.
and proust writes them so well, it dredges up every memory i had of every failed relationship, but in a good, "phew" way.and that ending!
But in exchange for what our imagination leads us to expect and we give ourselves so much futile trouble trying to find, life gives us something which we were very far from imagining. If you have come thus far in this search for time lost, here you may remember that, as unfeasible as it may seem, this is in fact but a part of a single work, one that built and built and has finally started to wind its way slowly down trains of thought already distilled, running on rails made efficient by readerl
Past and future are beginning to coalesce within his grasp, and the present is becoming less of a search and more of a complex interchange between self, time, and circumstance with every passing instance; a newness less pristine, a habit less condemned.The sun has begun to set on the stage of this lengthy exploration of color, love, society, leaving a narrator beginning to learn that not all lost opportunities are worth forever mourning, that the paths of life led thus far are no less valuable for not having adhered to a past plan of action, however seemingly frivolous in nature or wasteful in scope of time.
--The Captive (In Search of Lost Time Volume V)--The Fugitive (In Search of Lost Time Volume VI)NotesAddendaSynopsis
Again, the writing is so delicious that I tended to forget what an idiot the narrator is.
I'm not sure how Proust kept the standard of writing so high, but he has.Proust revisits a number of themes throughout and in this volume the narrator in his obsession with Albertine seems to suffer the same sort of separation anxiety he used to feel as a child.
An interesting switch.We get more of the marvellously silly Verdurin's and Baron Charlus continues to delight, but this volume really centres on the narrator and Albertine and whether or not she is having Lesbian affairs.
The only way to deal with the book might be to re-read the darn thing, over & over, without end (as a favourite professor of mine did, with both ISOLT and Ulysses on his bedside table, taking turns), taking in each partial truth partially, so that we approach but never arrive at the true heart of things….We live in parts, but our tyrant, that restless, relentless, sadistic colonizer, love, "is a demand for a whole" that can never be fully met.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0076qrnRevisiting, via BBC R4x, all the books in remembrance, our world has altered too.
I’ve attempted (this is already generous) to review each volume of In Search of Lost Time, but every time I finish reading one, I feel like I should just skip it this time around.
Although it’s nearly impossible to review any specific aspect of The Fugitive without giving something important away, and despite the fact that this was the first volume where the narrator’s major emotions and thoughts were somewhat foreign to me based on my own (lack of) life experiences, I was consistently moved just the same.
Also, Marcel at one point says he'll get the commoner Albertine a yacht and a Rolls Royce -- the class stuff maybe makes me less a full-on lover of this?
More later -- it's hard to summarize since I've already forgotten so much, which seems like part of the point of Mr. Proust's massive project -- over time Marcel forgets Albertine; I've forgotten the first pages by the time I've reached the end.
She is a captive; there's no longer a sense of conquest.Suddenly,some hint of a rendezvous,some hidden agenda,& Marcel's jealousy rears its ugly head- Albertine must be safeguarded like a prized jewel- the wooing starts all over again.Peace re-established,Marcel again loses interest in her & starts moping abt his lost opportunities with other girls,the demands on his time & attention which keeps him away from his artistic pursuits & so on:"(Albertine is) a treasure in exchange for which I had forfeited my freedom, my solitude, my thought.”Now can you really blame Albertine for wanting to have some fun on the side?Marcel is able to carry Albertine back to Paris & keep her under his watch but peace of mind remains forever elusive: only a sleeping Albertine,in her vegetative state can afford him some sense of possession:"when Albertine was asleep, she seemed to have recovered her innocence.(...) she looked as though she were trusting herself to me!
At one time, I felt I was laboriously climbing my way through them and now I feel almost broken hearted that the end is in sight… Such is the way that Proust winds his way, slowly creeping into your life, until I cannot imagine the end of the day without his words lulling me to sleep.Although it does seem as though most of this work takes part in the head of our narrator, some of the themes would be very at home in a modern novel.
alternately beautiful and frustrating, as all of Proust seems to be. Gorgeous descriptions, occasionally humorous anecdotes, angst-filled cries from Marcel, followed by heartless thoughts. quite a book.Full review to come...
Sexual jealousy is just this attempt to control the beloved; and love, for Proust, is just the anguished feeling that our beloved, whose presence helps us to define ourselves, whose physical continuity helps to fight our existential angst, might break away.
It is only through art, not love, that we really get to know another person; it is only through art that the boundaries that separate mind from mind are bridged; and this, presumably, is why Proust is writing this in the first place.
My favorite volumes so far!
"For my taste, Proust explains much: 300 pages just to make us understand that X screws Y is way too much."— Louis-Ferdinand Céline. Letter for Milton Hindus.Well, you better get ready for 700 pages on sexuality, dinner parties, jealousy, memory, art and beauty. Though for my taste, those ‘over-explained’ pages are one of the several things I like so much about Proust’s work. I actually got to know about that quote from a film:  Laurence Anyways  by Xavier Dolan; and, even though I don’t agree w
André Gide said that Proust ‘portrayed only the grotesque and abject aspects of Sodom.’ Well, yes, I agree that homosexuality, unlike in a Proustian world where it represents a majority and a common thing, in the real world it implicates so much dejection and suffering, characteristics which in In search of lost time are left for the narrator, who is a frustrated heterosexual trying to deal with his jealousy for a person whom he doesn’t know how to please.
Not only did Barnes' style remind me at times of Proust, with a certain poetic sensibility (I think T.S. Eliot was right in stating that Barnes' masterwork would "appeal primarily to readers of poetry," and I think that the same could well apply to Proust's writings), but she dealt with similar themes, such as homosexuality and musings on phenomena such as nobility and titles and the fluidity of social class distinctions at the turn of the century.Now I have reached a point in my journey with Proust where I have come to his posthumously published works, and there are some inconsistencies, many which would have escaped my attention had it not been for the notes section at the end of this edition.
In fact, how does one really ever "capture" the beauty of life in art or music or literature?
Even in a masterpiece, is it not beauty the fugitive that usually dwells just beyond one's capture?
Or like Vinteuil's septet or the music of Wagner or the painting of Rembrandt, is the best for which one can hope of fugitive beauty only a brief fleeting experience?
Or is the pursuit of the capture of the beauty of life in fact where one realizes its most sublime value?
The great tapestry of the characters of Proust -- Albertine, Gilberte, Swann, Brichot, Bloch, Charlus, Morel, Saint-Loup -- ultimately surprise and usually disappoint him.
Though these segments of Proust's novel (and the work is fully revealing its novelistic structure at this late point in the game) are bundled together, I'm going to treat them as separate entities:Though there are of course great moments - the first reveal, 3,300 pages in, of the protagonist's name, which is like the sun bursting through a foggy afternoon; the cliffhanger ending; the reappearance of certain traits of Marcel's great-aunt in Combray - THE CAPTIVE is my personal low point of I.S.o.L.T., a long, obsessive meander through the protagonist's most frustrating tendencies (jealousy, homophobia).
I've been reading Proust on and off for 30 years.
It's worth the effort.Reading Proust is a journey.
There's no need to hurry – and like Montaigne and Shakespeare, Proust just gets richer with each reading.
I've been making my way through the Penguin Proust since it appeared in 2002, enjoying the new translations.
I also keep the classic Moncrieff translation at hand so I can switch back and forth.
Moncrieff has been long criticized for making Proust more flowery than he actually is, but his version, as amended by Terence Kilmartin, holds up very well.
All the characters at the salon (in this book, the one hosted by the Verdurins, but also those which occupied central place in the previous volumes) are touched by insincerity in one way or another, making it plausible for the Narrator to do the same himself.
It is hard to understand why he even cares what kinds of things Albertine does apart from himself, except from an insane kind of possessiveness.These sketches of the story of Albertine actually go all the way back to the early part of Proust's writing life, but were only published after his death without benefit of a final edit by him.
(hide spoiler)] Albertine is a captive to the tyranny of Marcel’s jealousy, and Marcel sometimes proclaims that he does not even love her until he watches her sleep.
We suspect that he loves not Albertine but the power of possession.Marcel, in turn, is captive to his obsessive, prurient, and insane jealousy, which is “reciprocal torture.”  He abandons his literary career and social commitments to suffocate Albertine.
I resolve to never again be possessed nor will I possess.) Proust explores the “inverse idiosyncrasies of jealousy.” Captive Marcel tortures himself with imagining Albertine having sex with every woman.
Who knew that bisexual French shut-ins knew everything?
Ok, so maybe just everything about love and jealousy and memory and thought and being a person in the world.
The new Proust translation is the alpha and the omega.
The Fugitive has some strangle plot parts but the phrasing, imagery, pitch-prefect tone, and oceanic depth of understanding of the thing is impossible but extant.
It is humbling and uplifting to read.
Quit your job, unplug all your plugs and read this book.
Note: this is volume 5 of 6, so the previous 4 are required, plus this book is not in print in the US until 2018, so may be hard to find.
With the result that he came to regret every pleasure that he tasted in her company, every new caress of which he had been so imprudent as to point out to her the delights, every fresh charm that her found in her," (Proust, Swann's Way)In his discussion of Proust in "Where Shall Wisdom be Found?" Harold Bloom concludes that the only recourse of the jealous lover "is to search for lost time, in the hopeless hope that the aesthetic recovery of illusion and of experience alike will deceive him in a higher moder than he fears to have been deceived already."(p 256) This is where we find Marcel in his tortuous relationship with Albertine in The Captive.
Charlus’s homosexuality or the frivolity of the Guermantes’ sorties, Marcel Proust’s monumental work In Search of Lost Time paints the unsuccessful reconstruction of a forgone world and a lost existence from fickle memories, which like morning mists would fade with the rising sun.
The narrator Marcel, longing for a past that didn’t exist but must be created, sought to experience Bergson’s continuous time rather than the fragmented and still-framed instantaneous moments by attempting to blur the boundaries between Cambray and Paris, childhood and adolescence, and Swann and himself and integrate here and there, before and after, and him and me through memory fragments of previous objects, people and sensations.
The Fugitive functions more like a post script to The Prisoner and then three stepping stones (chapters) toward, I imagine, what's to come--the final volume.
I wonder if Proust, had he lived to revise it, would have formed it more into a single, holistic piece, like the previous volumes.
peut-etre.Looking back from this far-off vantage point of 6 of 7 volumes, I can only add that this sprawling series of a single, inconsequential character's recollections and petty problems defines the word pretentious, sums up the entire process of creating art out of this meaningless series of moments we call life--drawn together as they are by the mysterious workings of our brains into fallible and flawed memories--and that it makes me relish the human experience and pity our minuscule immensity.
"More often than not, a body becomes the object of love only when an emotion, fear of losing it, uncertainty of getting it back, melts into it. Now this sort of anxiety has a great affinity for bodies. It adds to them a quality which surpasses beauty itself, which is one of the reasons why we see men who are indifferent to the most beautiful women fall passionately in love with others who appear to us ugly."
"The only true voyage, the only bath in the Fountain of Youth, would be not to visit strange lands but to possess other eyes, to see the universe through the eyes of another, of a hundred others, to see the hundred universes that each of them sees, that each of them is; and this we can do with an Elstir, with a Vinteuil; with men like these we do really fly from star to star."
Three times in English, once in French. Ultimately, it disappoints me, especially in the whole forced feminization for ‘normality’ of Albertine. But provocative nonetheless.
At times he appears to be a cynical atheist who derives an incredible amount of transcendental joy from art, and he can’t explain this joy without reference to some other reality, a reality separate from “a life hagridden by people who have no real connexion with one.” (When I read this last phrase, I had a greater appreciation for why he goes on and on about the dinner parties of the Guermantes and the Verdurins.) Of course, this is assuming Proust and his narrator are one and the same.
In discovering that gay people 1) exist and 2) have fairly open relationships (not hiding in the countryside not quite avoiding Françoise's gossip tentacles), the Narrator's insecurities become very problematic for Albertine.
And then, once Albertine leaves (view spoiler)[ and dies in a riding accident mentioned so off-handedly that I almost missed it (hide spoiler)] it becomes an amazing outpouring of grief and trying to figure the whats and why of the whole relationship.
Proust's novel-cycle is omnivorous and omnigenic; it takes in everything; it gives birth to everything.
You can't pretend it isn't periodically boring, but so may all great art be.
A spoiled, cosseted, hyper-observant little boy, who swoons with frustration when his mother fails to come up to kiss him before he goes to sleep at night, grows up to be a spoiled, cosseted, hyper-observant young man who falls in love with a series of women, or in something that passes for love, love that combines obsessive attention to the beloved with an absolute indifference to her needs except inasmuch as those needs might take her away from him.
