https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1125014.The_Little_Rabbit_Who_Wanted_Red_Wings
Wise Old Groundhog sends him to the Wishing Pond; after wishing hard all day, he grows wings.
The next day, seeing he has learned his lesson, Wise Old Groundhog helps him get rid of the wings.
Little Rabbit never tries to be different again!This is an important lesson, boys and girls: don't want to be or do things that aren't "normal." And if you see anyone with an unusual appearance, ostracize them![This probably wasn't in the author's mind, but I couldn't help thinking as I read this how easily the "red wings" could function as a stand-in for homosexuality...:]
Little Rabbit wanted wings, and being that he lives in a world where animals talk to each other, there's some magic to be had.
(My little kid brain thought about how wild rabbits do this anyway.) In the morning he wishes more than anything that he DIDN'T have wings anymore so he could return to his family and be loved again, and that horrified me.
I understand that the story was trying to say you're great the way you are, but the shunning and cruelty by the other characters after he really did enjoy having wings at first just made me uncomfortable.
This book has a terrible message. Don't have your kids read it. :( It disturbed me as a child.
This is one of my favorites from childhood! I still have it, displayed in my "favorite books case".
This fantasy book tells a great tale of a rabbit wishing to be someone else but himself.
This book’s theme stands right out to children and they may relate to Little Rabbit’s self-esteem.
Rabbit goes around telling other animals what he wishes he could change about himself and children feel like that at times as well.
When Little Rabbit is sad, you see the tears running down his face quite vividly and the natural hugging embraces he engages with his mother are what any child can relate to.The most important part about this book is the animal fantasy aspect.
This book was about a rabbit who wished to fly, but when he got his wish for a pair of red wings, everyone he knew (even his parents) shunned him and treated him like a monster.
While the illustrations were lovely and the rabbit's celebration of flying shortly after getting the wings was really fun, the payoff just made me feel sort of sad and sick.Think about it this way.
The rabbit wanted to fly, thought about it all the time, and eventually got his dream.
It's important to teach children that what others have isn't necessarily better than what you have, and the rabbit learned that the hard way when he finally got his red wings and nobody recognized him anymore.This is a simple story that children would enjoy!
For instance, the rabbit (from the illustrations anyway) looks exactly the same when he gets his red wings, except for the fact that he got red wings, so I was a little confused as to why none of the characters "recognized" him.
I see the reviews are pretty split on this book. There's the "it teaches your child to never be different, boo" camp, and the "be happy with your blessings, yay" camp. I'm on the fence, but my 4 year old loves it, so we'll go with "yay."
Great read aloud for children of all ages.
I smile, thinking of her growing up familiar with this simple present.
My parents prepared me well enough that I didn’t fall for it.The rabbit of this book wants wings.
Firstly, this rabbit wants everything he sees, like a squirrel’s tail.
The titular wings are thus not an object of desire; merely a whim for a moment.
He obtained wings but his friend in need refrained from telling him how to easily retract them.
I considered that unkind and a simplistic story ending.The cruel scenario is that Little Rabbit’s friends and Mother fail to recognize him with wings!
There was a little rabbit who wanted to fly, but when his wish comes true will it be all he hoped it would be?It wasn't until I looked this up and saw the other cover art did I realize I totally knew this book as a kid.
There are a lot of reviews on here that I think are seriously missing the point of this fable, but I'll just say that especially nowadays it's more valuable than ever for kids to know who and what they are, and to be grateful for their own unique selves just as they are and as they were created.
Pretending and wishing is perfectly fine and quite important, but understanding who you are is even more so.
C'est l'histoire plutôt mignonne d'un petit lapin qui a tout pour être heureux, mais qui malgré tout rêve d'autre chose.
A chaque fois qu'il voit un autre animal, il rêve de lui ressembler.
Il est vrai que ça à l'air sympa de pouvoir nager avec les pieds palmé du canard, ou pouvoir voler avec les ailes d'un oiseau!Mais un jour l'un de ses voeux se réalise, et commence alors une journée à l'issu de laquelle ce petit lapin se rendra compte de la chance qu'il avait d'être ce qu'il était!Bref, un joli conte pour les tout petits!
En plus les dessins sont jolis.
Don't Read This To My KidsThis book sends the wrong message to impressionable children. I hated it so much that I posted a video review of it on YouTube. You can find it on my channel, "Don't Read This To My Kids". Basically, when the Little Rabbit gets the titular red wings, his mother and all the other animals reject him as a stranger and he is forced to undo his wish in order to fit in again. It teaches kids that being different is bad. My video review goes into more detail. https://youtu.be/pSOI8ZVIi4E

This has been a favorite of my nieces and nephews, starting back in the early '80s. (Not a favorite of mine, but that doesn't matter.) I know they liked pointing their fingers and moving their hands in circles three times each time the rabbit made a wish.It also gave me the opportunity to teach the kids the difference between a male and a female mallard. ( Miss Puddle Duck looks very much like a male mallard.)
This is a cute story of a rabbit who wants to be a little different and wishes to have red wings. The bunny eventually gets what they want and runs into some issues with having the wings. This is another great story to teach kids how being yourself is important and you don't need to change in order to be happy, just be you.
This is the story of a little rabbit who made a wish to have beautiful red wings. When his wish is granted, his friends and family do not recognize him. He found out that its better to be yourself than wish for something your not. This would be great to use when teaching students that the best thing you can do is just be yourself. It can also be used when talking about friendship.
This is a story that I read to my students about not wishing to change ourselves. Sometimes you don't realize how lucky you are until something or someone is gone. This book teaches that no matter what you might not like about yourself, sometimes the grass isn't always greener on the other side.
Theme: I'm specialSummary: A story about a little rabbit who wishes he was everybody else but himself and his final appreciation of who he is after he spends a day having a wish granted.
This was one of my most oft-requested bedtime stories as a child--not particularly well-known, but like most children's stories, it has a moral.
"Shannon 1988." Creepiest book EVERRR. Heavy handed on the moral of the story, and did I mention it's creepy?
The edition I found on the shelves was published in 1978. the year I was born. It was rather creepy.
This book had nice big pictures and a good message about being yourself. The children enjoyed it.
Don't you dare dream, children, for if you do, and if you grow into something you wanted to be, then nobody who loves you will know who you are. What a nightmare.
I recall liking this book as a child, but thinking about it now (and after reading other users' reviews), it seems to have a pretty terrible message - that you need to conform to be happy, that being different will make everyone ostracize you. But then again, I don't think I picked up on that as a child - I just thought it was about being happy as yourself, and not wishing to be someone else.
Great story that teaches kids to accept themselves just the way they are.
a bit preachy and the mom is cruel- but the little rabbit learned his lesson!
I don't like this book.
The little rabbit got very wise and I could learn from that! Cute illustrations.
short and sweet
