https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34506912-the-prince-and-the-dressmaker
It's a really cute story but, as a person who generally prefers "tense" and "gritty" over "cute" reads, it's not too saccharine as to be unbearable.
This is a good graphic novel for readers who enjoy the occasional fun read like Simon vs.
The Prince and the Dressmaker is about Frances, a Parisian dressmaker who suddenly receives an amazing opportunity to make dresses for royalty-- Prince Sebastian, to be precise!
Together the pair dazzle around Paris at night, with Sebastian - or Lady Crystallia - wearing Frances's gorgeous creations.
Friendship grows between them, and then something else, but when Sebastian's secret threatens an amazing opportunity for Frances, things get complicated.
I have always loved stories about princes and princesses and kings and queens and lavish dresses—no wonder I couldn’t put this down.I don’t want to speak too soon… Oh hell, I can already see this one winning Best Graphic Novel in December 2018 when the Goodreads Choice Awards makes its appearance once again.
After all, who wants a prince who wears dresses?
I loved the characters, the story, the themes, the drawings, and even the ending (regardless of the fact that it’s not one hundred perfect realistic).
Absolutely charming.

THIS WAS SO PRECIOUS. All of the stars for it!!!
This book is the anachronistic 19th century French fairytale meets Project Runway but with cross dressing and deconstruction of gender norms of my dreams.
I know a lot of reviewers have said they're hesitant to call this a queer story, because Sebastian never specifically calls himself trans, nonbinary, gender-fluid, etc.
When I showed this panel to a loved one of mine who is nonbinary, he immediately said that it resonated very strongly with him, and frankly, that's good enough for me to recommend this as a must-read, beautiful queer story.
This was exceptional! So heartwarming, and the characters were so lovable. This is definitely a story I’ll read again and again, and recommend to friends.
In my top ten day for the year!The Prince and the Dressmaker is a kind of revival of a long used concept, the idea of (sort of) swapping identities and/or class positions.
She doesn't want to be poor, she wants to design for the rich and famous; he doesn't want to be chosen to marry the pretty princess, he wants to wear lovely designer dresses (though it is more complicated than just that, actually)!Sound already cliched, in this time of the explosion of glbtq books?
The art in this! Just stunning! The colors, composition, the flowing linework...Meanwhile the story is modern while retaining the old-school sweetness and charm of a fairy tale (with a happy ending). Just incredible overall. Worthy of study by all illustrators and writers.
This might sound Cinderella-ish, but everything starts with a royal invitation for the Prince's 16th birthday celebration sans the trope-tastic fairy godmother: As everyone in town clamors for that alluring gown to wear for the ball, only one dress stood out amidst the kaleidoscope of colors inside the kingdom's hall.
However, something's not quite right: With Prince Sebastian's identity exposed, Frances and the Prince both enter a pact that paves a way for a special friendship to develop.
No labels here as far as I can tell, but the messages in this graphic novel are truly inspiring.
WHAAAAAAT.Never in a million years did I expect that from this book.Literally awesome. Beautiful art. Just fantastic stuff. Read it read it read it.That's all I have to say.Bottom line: WHY HAVEN'T YOU READ THIS YET WHEN I JUST VERY POLITELY DEMANDED YOU DO SO.
well, that was super cute and adorable. My first graphic novel for 2018 and it felt like a breeze of fresh air, I loved it  Full review postedWell, The Prince and the Dressmaker turned out to be the most delightful surprise of 2018 and for many reasons:1/ To say that graphic novels aren’t my cup of tea is an understatement. I don’t like them very much and I feel like I can’t get a lot out of them. it’s not like I’m judging them without trying, it’s actually quite the opposite, I tried many times
it’s not like I’m judging them without trying, it’s actually quite the opposite, I tried many times to read graphic novels and every time I can’t get through it, I just stop and feel totally disappointed and then I get scared of ever trying again but the prince and the dressmaker completely changed my mind.
I’m always scared that I will get distracted by the illustrations that I won’t connect to the characters but it was not the case here because I enjoyed those pictures but what I enjoyed more is the different characters this novel introduced to me from the loyal Emile, to the lovely, talented and ambitious Frances to the price who wanted more than arranged marriage out of this life.Adorable, Beautiful with an important message to communicate, The Prince and the Dressmaker is definitely worthy of recommendations.
Muchas veces lo que no me acaba de convencer de este tipo de novelas es que no suelo llegar a entender del todo las motivaciones y las personalidades de los personajes, porque siento que es difícil hacerlo...
Llegamos a conocer a los dos personajes principales muy bien, y eso ha hecho que los ame con toda mi alma, de verdad.Frances es una modista que consigue trabajar para el príncipe Sebastian, que le encanta vestirse por las noches con vestidos y convertirse en lady Cristalia.
Otra cosa que me ha encantado es que representa maravillosamente el tema de género fluido, y jamás había leído una historia donde saliera este tipo de representación tan necesaria para muchas personas, así que ¡chapó!
The art style reflected this in its use of gold, olive, and muted jewel tones.Topics include gender identity and self expression with relation to gender identity, family pressure.
I loved how Frances, the dressmaker, was so skillful and talented with fashion design and was quietly confident.
I also loved the use of bright bold colors when showing her designs in contrast to the muted jewel tones and gold of the setting.Sebastian was a wonderful character who was also quietly strong and the way he was portrayed reflected his challenges well and didn’t downplay them.Overall, definitely a graphic novel I’ll remember.
Empecé a leerlo pensando que iba a ser una novela gráfica más, pero me encontré con una historia increíble sobre un príncipe de Bélgica al que, por las noches, le gusta vestirse de mujer y, eventualmente, encuentra a una chica que le diseña vestidos maravillosos y lo acepta tal cual es sin juzgarlo.
Jen Wang nos presenta la historia de estos dos personajes de una manera que es imposible no amarlos desde la página uno, es imposible no querer que puedan ser ellos mismos sin miedo a lo que puedan pensar.
Y es que, claro, desde la perspectiva de la realeza...¿quién iba a querer a un príncipe que se viste de chica por las noches?
I read this book in under three hours and I’m literally drained. This book, omg. Where do I begin? Because I don’t personally go through what Sebastian went through, I can’t comment on the accuracy of the representation, but holy damn, was it amazing. And I ship them so much, my heart is exploding with love and acceptance. I WOULD 10/10 RECOMMEND!!!

The Art! The Story! The Art! Everything about this was great and amazing. I read this is one sitting and refused to put it down.
A copy was provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest reviewThe Prince and the Dressmaker is perfect for fans of the manga Princess Jellyfish and eccentric anime such as Ouran HIghschool Host Club.It tells the story of a young prince Sebastian who loves to dress up as a woman known simply as Lady Cristallia.
After seeing a young designer's talent, he hires her as his personal seamstress, all while knowing he may be shunned by her and proper society.
I'm looking forward to more of this author's work!I feel like stories like these, that break gender norms and show us a different side of both our lives and history can help future generations accept themselves more easily.
This was so cute! And I loved the art! And the ending was so sweet and heartwarming!
I received an ARC of this book from Rich in Variety Tours in exchange for an honest review. You can call me... Lady Crystallia. THIS BOOK. THE FEELS.I REQUESTED A REVIEW COPY OF THIS ON NETGALLEY BUT THEY DECLINED. WHEN I RECEIVED THE EMAIL TELLING ME I'VE BEEN SELECTED FOR THE BLOG TOUR I WAS SO HAPPY.When I was young, I loved reading The Smurfs and Geronimo Stilton graphic novels. They are so colorful, the stories are so captivating, and aaaahh I just LOVED the way of storytelling through draw
WHEN I RECEIVED THE EMAIL TELLING ME I'VE BEEN SELECTED FOR THE BLOG TOUR I WAS SO HAPPY.When I was young, I loved reading The Smurfs and Geronimo Stilton graphic novels.
So I'll be referring to Sebastian / Lady Crystallia as they / them.) I was rooting for them all the way :D This is my first time reading a YA novel featuring a genderfluid character - I didn't know much about genderfluidity before, and this book opened my eyes and showed me what it was.Overall rating★★★★★THIS BOOK IS SO FREAKING CUTE.
UGH THIS BOOK IS ADORABLE AND HEARTWARMING 💕 the graphics were gorgeous, the storyline was cute, and the characters are amazing. i forgot just how much i love graphic novels
So wonderfully sweet and kind.
"I'm a prince who likes dresses."...The Prince and the Dressmaker is a graphic novel I've had my eye on since before it was released, and the premise intrigued me.In this story, we follow Sebastian: by day, he's the crown prince of Belgium, destined to marry a princess and carry on his family's legacy.
She wants to make a name for herself in the fashion world, but how long can Frances ignore her dreams to help her friend?I absolutely adored this.To start, the art style is beautiful.
Jen Wang really brought 19th century Paris to life, and I was completely sucked in.I'm in love with the characters.
Sebastian and Frances are so freakin' adorable, and the dresses??
And, being a reader who might someday marry a fellow reader and possibly find herself the proud mother of several book-loving offspring, I wanted to get a feel for the politics are being slipped into MG/children's books, today (even though motherhood is a loooong ways away).Surprisingly, The Prince & the Dressmaker was fairly clean.
It's a book that says, "Boys, it's okay to dress up like a girl if you want to!"I don't agree with that.I don't want to bog down any brave souls who've managed to make it this far through my review, so I'll leave you with a few verses:But for Adam no suitable helper was found.
There are lovely and sweet moments in it, but it also has other things going on that may be difficult and painful for trans and/or non-binary readers.I enjoyed many things about this YA graphic novel.
Unfortunately, for much of the story, the prince is closeted and feels like their non-binary gender is ruining their life and that they can never really be themself and be a monarch.
The romance that is included in the happy ending felt unearned, and like it was there to give a reason for the intimacy of the relationship between the prince and their dressmaker, and that made me sad.
4.5 stars. THIS. WAS. ADORABLE. I went more in detail in my blogpost. Thank you so much, 01SecondBooks, for sending it my way!https://dylanthereader.com/2018/01/26...
i wish there hadn't been a forced coming out scene but this made me so happy
This. Is. ADORABLE! It's the classic Prince and Peasant story turned on its side with the peon being a dressmaker who has big dreams and the prince secretly being a princess or, more accurately, a society lady.The dialogue doesn't always flow well or make perfect sense but the illustrations make up for that, filling in blanks left by the words. This looks to be Wang's first all-her-own graphic novel in which she was responsible for the story and drawrings and I feel maybe she just doesn't have t
It may have worked better to put this in a realistic yet imaginary setting, like that of The Princess Diaries so that the language would not interfere with the environment.2) The romance because that's always my complaint.I didn't think it was necessary and was maybe even detrimental since it could be inferred that all your dreams can come true but you're never fully complete until you have a romantic partner, which I think is BS.
