https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17810.In_the_Miso_Soup
There is something not quite right about Frank.Kenji has formed some opinions about Americans over the years.
In a word, they’re childish--but maybe that’s what makes their smile so appealing.”Usually Kenji just escorts guys around showing their options for “entertainment” and then if they insist, rarely so, he accompanies them into the clubs and service oriented places.
Frank keeps him close, even starts to consider him a friend, and at one point insists on getting his picture taken with Kenji.
I was very wary when he gave this to me because I do not like gratuitous violence that leaves one feeling desensitized or empty.This little novel was so much more though.
This left me with feelings of unease, fear and yet with a dreamlike haziness.
I read this in the late spring heat but actually felt chilled even when I read this book in a sun-brightened public park.A dark intelligent little novel that I will not forget even if right now I would like to.
The author uses this thriller not only to strike fear into readers' hearts, but to make them think on societal values and habits, such as our different ways of communication, the obsession with consumption and image-building, the great escape from Loneliness Prison where the only tool some people seem to get is the social equivalent of a plastic spoon.Japan, and Tokyo in particular, has always been an inspiring setting to me, ever since seeing the movie "Lost in Translation" and visiting the country myself.
What the hell did I just read? Digesting.......Ok, I swallowed it.Are you ready to read something REEEALLY weird? Check out these two quotes: "Killing people has always been absolutely essential for me to go on living."  "I'm a man who consciously commits murders and scares the hell out of people and makes them reconsider everything, so I'm definitely malignant, yet I think I play a necessary role in this world." In this weird-ass story, there is one weird-ass creepy American businessman/tourist
What the hell did I just read?
Digesting.......Ok, I swallowed it.Are you ready to read something REEEALLY weird?
"I'm a man who consciously commits murders and scares the hell out of people and makes them reconsider everything, so I'm definitely malignant, yet I think I play a necessary role in this world."
In this weird-ass story, there is one weird-ass creepy American businessman/tourist named Frank (we think) who hires an almost legal Japanese tour guide named Kenji to show him around Tokyo's sleazy nightlife.
(including me?) Super weird!
What starts out as a sleazy, guilty pleasure of a pulp novel about an American tourist and his guide visiting the Tokyo pleasure palaces turns into a soup broth of over-the-top violence and nutty serial killer philosophy that makes Jeffrey Dahmer seem like the boy next door.
But I have an uncomfortable admiration for the way the author tells a unrelenting suspenseful story and the way he makes you think about the psychological questions of good and evil nagging throughout the book.
That would have been interesting.Sounds like one of your crap art house movies.Thanks.Hey, I sat though enough of those.
Through Franks strange and erratic behavior, reports in the news of body parts being discovered in the area and the cold marble eye look in Franks eye, the two of them tour the district with Kenji a nervous wreck fearing some nasty happenings are right around the corner.I feared this would turn out to be your typical slasher/horror novel but it's nothing of the sort really, and is built more on a sense of mood and unease rather than shocks and that's precisely what it delivers, to describe in simple terms it's like the calm before the storm.
According to the Lebanese man, Japan’s just about the only country in the world that’s been untouched, except for the U.S. But he said of course there’s a bright side to that too and started telling her about [] saying that precisely because the Japanese have never experienced a real invasion, there’s a certain gentleness here you can’t find in other countries, and that they’ve come up with these incredible methods of healing.Don’t read it:•	After a climactic scene midway through, In The Miso Soup lost a little steam and didn’t seem as sure of where it was headed.
I can say that the translator did a serviceable job, but the amount of typos and missing words did distract, especially since this isn't an indie published book.
The director says it's a metaphor for the violence in Serbia.
But, while there is not infant rape in this book, there is a scene that describes brutality in such simplistic language that I instantly wished I hadn't read it.
The killer removes the tampon, rolls up the ear, and stuffs the ear into the dying woman's vagina.That fucked me all up.
Night one is slightly strange but when Kenji finds what he thinks is a piece of flesh (arggg!) on his property, he knows it came from that weirdo Frank.
Frank, who claims to be missing a bit of his brain (lobotomy, perhaps?), stares into space for eternities and Kenji mostly muses to himself on the state of people in the sex trade industry and worries about being late to visit his girlfriend.
Things get vaguely exciting when Kenji finds that itty bitty ominous patch of flesh but that’s the only intriguing thing that happened for pages on end.
How Murakami goes about this is completely his own idiosyncratic way: a fat, vulgar American tourist (with plastic skin) hires a street-savvy but thoughtful Tokyo youth to take him on a safari through the sleazy sex trade pocketed within the nation’s capital city.
Our narrator, the Japanese youth, quickly realizes that something is terribly off with his American charge, but the lure of monetary gain muffles his worries, and soon the pair are off on a hellish weekend of sightseeing involving cheap sex, black magic, and mass carnage.
America remains an alluring yet horrifying abstraction throughout the novel, even though the device of an obese, obnoxious American psychopath would have made for an amusing, albeit cheap, satiric device.
With this book, I even experienced a genuine episode of that fabled cliche: almost missing my stop on the train because I was so completely absorbed in the story.Kenji is a tour guide who specialises in helping foreign tourists navigate sex clubs and brothels.
As Frank's stories and behaviour become increasingly bizarre, it all starts to seem frighteningly plausible, yet Kenji can't seem to tear himself away.I unequivocally loved everything about this.
I feel like this was such a perfect collision of book and reader that it couldn't possibly be replicated.
Fuck me, this had me emailing my brother who lived in Japan for a year, asking him what the fuck is wrong with Japanese writers.
Heh. Although this book offered much more insight into Japanese culture than Kirino's  Out: A Novel, while also giving thoughtful and poignant perspectives on American culture, I just can't stand this bloodbath shit that's popped up in both of these novels, along with high school girls selling themselves, bodies being hacked up and thrown away in the local trash bins, designer brands sported by chicks who are moments away from having their throats slit in graphic detail, etc.That's not to say that the book isn't well-written.
The Japanese have a similar defect..."Read this book if you want to be entertained and learn about Japan, but be prepared for gore and psychological drama.
In the Miso soup is a spit in the face on great American obsession of the east/Japan. There's this subtle angst all over the place which stays with you for a long time . This was creepy in all levels. That ear/hypnotism thing might be the creepiest, random-est thing I've ever read. If you're willing to explore Ryu Murakami/ Japanese transgressive fiction, this is where you start.
In the Miso Soup follows the 20-year-old tour guide Kenji in the nights leading up to New Year’s as he shows Japan’s sex district to an American tourist who happens to be a pathological liar and may be responsible for the grisly murder and cutting-up-in-bits of a school-age prostitute (yes, your favorite kind).
Unlike other page turners, In the Miso Soup creates a story that never comes at the cost of character.
How do you do it, Murakami, um, Kenji?
Even better, unlike Murakami's more recent book, Pierced, this one never made me squeamish or wince.
Like a smiling child with a box of crayons, humming the Dora the Explorer theme song, then showing you a crudely drawn crime scene with headless chickens and bloody axes and dead parents.It is a delicious read.Kenji has the slightly illegal job of guiding tourists through Japan's underground night life.
He is hired by Frank, an American, for a three-night job ending on New Year's Eve. Kenji is immediately on alert around his client, who always seems to be lying, who's skin seems cold and plastic, who occasionally gets a dark and violent look in his eyes.
Der Anfang war super aber das Ende war einfach nur wirr und ekelhaft..konnte mich leider nicht überzeugen
I think Miso Soup is a harsh criticism of society, Japan's and America's, their relationship with each other, and how they are both different and alike in a sort of social paradox.
All of Ryu Murakami's horror stories are a social critique of some kind.
Kenji's growing paranoia and fear of this bizarre stranger, Frank (if that's even his real name) is all too realistic.
Even more so when Frank starts to think of Kenji as a friend.
Kenji is just an ordinary guy trying to make a living, albeit in a somewhat shady business, but hardly deserving of getting harrassed by a psychopath.
Beautifully written, unsettling, disturbing, and unforgettable.
Loneliness is a major theme throughout In the Miso Soup.
Loneliness of Japanese and American culture is looked at through the eyes of Kenji and Frank - a pair who form an odd, and jarring bond that pulls you into the story.
Kenji takes Frank (an American tourist) on a guided tour through Tokyo's nightlife and sex industry, only for Kenji to begin to suspect Frank of murdering a high school student.
As per usual with Ryu Murakami, there's always one frightfully disturbing scene that makes your skin crawl, and your stomach queazy.
O autor consegue ficar a meio caminho do que eu esperava obter com este livro, mas ainda assim é uma obra que nos obriga a alguma reflexão.Kenji é o guia de Frank, mas também o nosso guia neste submundo de Tóquio habilmente apresentado.
É através de Kenji que nos chegam muitas “sensações”, muitos desconfortos, muita deriva de pessoas que procuram uma cura milagrosa para a solidão.
E foi aí sobretudo que o livro falhou para esta leitora: não encontrar uma lógica (mínima que fosse) para a prática de actos só por si ilógicos.
In the Miso Soup is the disturbing, paranoid tale of Kenji, whose job is to show tourists looking for the kind of entertainment Tokyo's dirty back streets and sex trade provide.
Kenji is passive, unambitious and kind of annoying.
Frank is a monster.The book succeeds in creating a pervasive, inescapable sense of dread, as Kenji becomes more and more convinced his client is more than just another Western sex tourist.
Horror is one of my favorite genres.
But there's a difference between horror and torture porn.
Parts of this book were just that.
I write novels in my spare time- well, I've written one that's finished, and a pretty decent draft of a second one- you won't get any annoying updates from me though, there's plenty of that abound, and I'll be really careful to find the right audience and not bother anyone else...[1] Okay, it's been said somewhere, good [2].What's my point though?
(These totally genius ideas are yours for free btw, and if you like them, stay tuned for what I actually chose to write about!)What's my point though?
And what a test of good writing that is?
It takes place over the three nights he spends with Frank, an exceptionally strange American tourist who he begins to suspect may be behind a string of horrific murders that have occured locally in the last few days.
In a novel of extremes, Frank is the living embodiment of Murakami's vision: alternately timid and exhuberant, waffling from an almost disinterest in sex to manic horndog antics, Frank's increasingly bizarre behavior and contradictory stories about America give Kenji ample reason to suspect him of something darker.
(Why can't he be both?) In the Miso Soup is a taut, noir-as-fuck, entertaining as hell look at the underbelly of one of the world's supposedly squeaky-clean cultures and a book that left me thinking big thoughts.
I felt the end was stopped short that really left me bit disappointed with the story.
I ordered it at a little sushi bar in Colorado once long ago, and I thought it was a darned peculiar kind of soup, the smell it had and everything, so I didn’t eat it, but it intrigued me.
It had that funny brown color and smelled kind of like human sweat, but it also looked delicate and refined somehow.
Not at all what I had expected, and the last third definitely saved this book from a lower score.
Definitely not for the weak stomached because of extremely graphic violence.
This is a book about a Japanese man guiding an American into the seedy underbelly of Japan's commercial district, Shinjuku, also known as Kabukicho and Murakami provides a much more cynical perspective on both Japanese and American cultures than you normally see in Japanese fiction.
More than the plot, this novel is really about loneliness, phoniness, and identity (although this is definitely more subtextual than not, so you have to put those pieces together yourself, despite the fact that I'm sure this is Murakami's true message behind the novel).
I remember reading this book many years ago, back when I was living in France.
Despite its content, it didn't stop me from moving to Tokyo."In the Miso Soup" is very graphic, violent, and at times downright scary.
The writing is excellent, and the description of Tokyo's red light district (Kabukicho) is still very vivid in my mind.
But the real strength of the books lies in the relationship between the two main protagonists: Kenji and Frank and the dialogues."In the Miso Soup" is a creepy, unforgettable novel and one of my favorites from Ryu Murakami.
Is this book a meditative study on the human imagination? The longing for acknowledgement of one's existence? Whatever it is, In The Miso Soup is one of the most visceral and cerebral books you'll ever read. Ryū Murakami combines philosophical nihilism, existentialism, surrealism, disillusion and black comedy to craft an overwhelmingly disturbing and thoughtful novel.
So scary, creepy-crawly flesh tingling, ickily real scary. I don't know anyone I would recommend this graphic of book to, but if you like, say, Sin City or gory chop 'em up flicks, this might be the book for you. Be warned, you won't be able to put it down, until you see murders happen behind your eyelids when you aren't even reading . Excellent.
I read this on a Saturday afternoon, mostly wondering: uh, what?
Yes, there's one shocking scene, but no, it's not actually that shocking and when I turned the last page, I asked myself: what was the point of this?Not every book needs to have a point, but this, while fairly entertaining, narrated in quite an interesting voice, did not leave a lasting impression, and a few days later, I've already forgotten the main character's name.The pages leading up to that one shocking scene are captivating, afterwards the book loses steam, and it felt like the author did not quite know what to do with it now he'd written the main event.Recommended to readers who enjoy books like American Psycho.
"it was a darned peculiar kind of soup, the smell it had and everything, so I didn’t eat it, but it intrigued me. It had that funny brown color and smelled kind of like human sweat, but it also looked delicate and refined somehow. I came to this country hoping to find out what the people who eat that soup on a daily basis might be like."  I feel the same. Yes i do. Oh Japan. The land of all that is wonderful, exciting, creepy and gory.The graphic violence in this is just plain gross and horrif
I came to this country hoping to find out what the people who eat that soup on a daily basis might be like." 
For example in this paragraph where he talks about American 'innocence'/ignorance  What’s good about Americans, if I can generalize a little, is that they have a kind of openhearted innocence.
There are so many psychological evaluations (as are always seen in books with a lot of crime), like the odd critical appreciation of social conditioning.He takes the experiment of a cat who is given food when she rings a bell and then when it becomes habituated to the process, punished by electric shocks.
