https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383198.Sweet_Danger
Ms. Allingham, you can't just slap some Ruritanian Romance into your mystery.
It does not work, just like the Holy Grail stand-in, tower-of-mystery trappings in Look to the Lady didn't work.
For Campion, I mean; most of her books have the standard innocent-you-love-interests of mysteries of this period.
I feel like Allingham just put that in the book to make it clear that Campion isn't gay or completely asexual.Also, there was a scene that pissed me off (view spoiler)[where Amanda's brother Hal physically manhandles her, twisting her arms and dragging her to lock her in a shed.
I have, slowly, been reading two of the Golden Age ‘Queens of Crime,’ this year – Margery Allingham and Ngaio Marsh.
However, I was keen to read the two other giants and am, so far, really loving Ngaio Marsh, while Allingham is more difficult for me to define.Without doubt, Albert Campion is a great character.
In this book he meets Lady Amanda Fitton, who becomes his fictional wife and so I was looking forward to this.The issue is that, although some of the Campion novels are mysteries, others are adventures.
This is a somewhat infuriating novel, full of bizarre characters.
This is outright adventure, with discredited heirs, regal impersonations, postage-stamp kingdoms, international implications, and a whale of a treasure hunt.The story itself is great fun, but Amanda Fitton makes it her own. Flame haired, talking a mile a minute, reviving ancient motor cars, turning an old mill house into a battery-charger, and knowing far more about what's going on than initially expected. She makes a fantastic 'Loot' to Campion's 'Orph', and thankfully reappears several books from now as an aircraft engineer.
Una búsqueda del tesoro con pistas, valientes detectives, peleas y malos malosos que quieren acabar con nuestros protagonistas, pero solo al final, que antes queda anticlimático.Margery Allingham consigue una historia muy entretenida y divertida, con personajes que caen simpáticos.
El misterio no es tan importante.
Lo divertido es la persecución de las pistas (el contrato, la corona y el tambor), con ese sabor tan de película clásica de los años 30 0 40.No es nada del otro mundo, si se analiza con frialdad, pero a mí me ha hecho pasar un rato estupendo, y al final es eso lo que valoro.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good adventure story, because it's not so much a mystery, but rather more of a suspense/adventure type thing.
Campion must take Randall into his confidence and explains that a very important piece of property must be claimed by the British Government, and he is trying to get a lead on some rather important articles that will lead to that objective.
If you haven't seen these DVDs, do so now!Highly recommended; not a cozy, not a police procedural, but mystery readers will enjoy it.
This book is especially enjoyable because it is the one where he first meets the flame-haired, resourceful Amanda Fitton, who goes on to play an important part as his romantic interest in later books.After reading a lot of Golden Age mysteries over the last few years, I've realised that many of those from the late 1920s and early 1930s aren't murder mysteries at all, but breathless adventure capers involving stolen jewels, gangs, fiendish chases through the countryside, etc.
On the romance plot, rereading the books this time around, I've been noticing that Albert really has his heart broken by Biddy in Mystery Mile, even though this isn't dwelt on.
I never know if I am going to enjoy Allingham's Campion books since they are erratic.
This one didn't make a whole lot of sense and I never knew exactly what was going one since there are so many holes in the plot that are never explained.
This story is concerned with the restoration of a title, the hunt for the objects that will provide proof, witchcraft, and the secret machinations of big business to get their hands on land belonging to the putative Earl.
Not one of the best of Allingham's prodigious output.
This is a bit Raiders of the Lost Document/Ark in rural Suffolk.
I found Campion's omnipotence a bit trying in this book and some of the escapes-from-death-and-injury caused me to roll my eyes.
While Allingham maintains her skill with pace and description, this story would be more suited to a film genre where belief can be more easily suspended.
As it is, this reader found it hard to maintain interest through the complexity and detail of the plot and sub-plots, finding some of it indulgence on the part of the author.
It is the fifth adventure of the mysterious Albert Campion, aided as usual by his butler/valet/bodyguard Magersfontein Lugg.Now I find myself sitting here doing nothing at all except wondering if I could find the book under the title Kingdom of Death.
One of the things she did other than write Albert Campion mysteries was to write Sexton Blake stories.
They are on a search to find the proof that this land belongs to the Pontisbrights, so is everyone else it seems, and the pretending to be kings didn't seem to fool anyone since the bad guys (remember the rat face guy?) shot at them on the train there.
When the title lapsed the old Countess, who was the only member of the family left, simply sold up everything, lock, stock and barrel.
Savanake (what a name!) is one of the more 'evil' villains I have come across in Allinghams' mysteries, and he pulls out all the stops.Campion is shanghaid but manages to keep one step ahead of the opposition and thwart the well-laid plans to get him out of the picture -- and the reader, along with his three friends, will not be able to guess how he manages to elude his adversary until he re-appears near the ending...
Wildly improbable but totally satisfying nonetheless.The delightful and mysterious Albert Campion (not his real name) is tasked by the British government with finding the lost proofs of ownership of a minuscule eastern European duchy that has unexpectedly developed value.
A criminal mastermind has also learned of that value and is sniffing around for clues.
There are treasure-map-style clues written in doggerel and concealed in unlikely places for inadequate reasons (who cares?); there is much upperclass-twit bungling about and some of the delicious lower-class bungling of Campion's sidekick, Magersfontein Lugg.
It all wanders along in mysterious fashion until the complex, fantastic, and suspense-filled climax.
When you pick up a book by one of the Grand-Old-Dames of mystery you may have certain expectations - a fine country house bursting at the seams with family including an ingénue and the neer-do-well son just back from Australia or the continent, the faithful gossipy cook, an absent minded vicar and his bossy wife...
Otherwise I greatly enjoyed this fun story, which is really more of a light-hearted adventure than a straight mystery.
Fans of the series will enjoy meeting Amanda - who shows up in several later books, too.
Part of that may be that I saw it in Spanish, but more I think had to do with the changes the scriptwriters made.
Having said that, I much prefer Campion as a detective than as a James Bondy wannabe.
The problem boils down to this: Allingham seems to be running two entirely different stories in tandem, one with a very unsuccessful woo-woo factor, and the other a race to get the proofs to own a tract of land that...nobody wants?
There's yet another old well in this book, along with the mill and its race and pool, where she works in the Jamesy Bondy action scene.
Margery Allingham is an old favorite, and every decade or two I go back and re-read the books.
This is one I hadn't looked at in a long time; it was fun to rediscover it but just a bit of a disappointment, as I last read it in callow, wide-eyed wonderment.
It's all about the intrigue, as Campion and pals race to find the trove ahead of the sinister tycoon who wants to sell it to the highest bidder.
But it has the Allingham touch, with distinct characters, vivid local color and Campion's self-effacing cleverness, a pleasing read for fans of the series.
Ah, what fun Campion is.
I think my enjoyment is heightened by viewing the BBC dramitization of many of Margery Allingham's Campion mysteries.
The characters enacted by Peter Davison (the seemingly distracted sleuth) and Brian Glover (his willful manservant Lugg) are always in my mind as I read these stories.
For anyone who has not seen these episodes, buy or rent the DVDs at once!This book did not disappoint.
All this adds to the enjoyment of the story.
One real bonus is the insertion of the mad doctor - what fun!
And of course Campion lives to solve another mystery.
This had some good characters, including one whom I hope becomes an eventual regular, and it wins big points for having a teenage girl who is an electricity geek, demonstrates tons of agency, and is shown to really brave without being stupid. But the overall plot is definitely more in the thriller category, and I was reading it hoping for detective fiction, so I was not as thrilled as I might otherwise be.
My absolute favorite Campion book thus far. Not only does it have all the elements that made Look to the Lady a favorite, but it also introduces Amanda Fitton, the woman who will eventually win Albert's heart, and you could not find a more perfect match for him--brilliant, stubborn, spirited, long-lost royalty, and best of all, a redhead! *g*
Campion gets involved in a case of international diplomacy and crime, trying to prove ownership of the land of Averna.
The trail leads him and his friends to Suffolk, and an eccentric impoverished family living in a water mill.I read some of the Campion books many years ago, and it has been a real joy to rediscover them with a Goodreads group.
Campion's foolish exterior hides a sharp mind, and even though we know this, he is still capable of springing surprises on the reader with his bravery and intelligence.This is a sparkling thriller with plenty of fun and a hint of menace throughout, plus a cast of entertaining characters.
Enjoyed this: liked the first appearance of Amanda, and find the story ridiculous and enchanting. The super-villain gets his in the end, and that is satisfying as well.
The Fitton family whose father attempted to establish his claim to the Earldom, live in poor circumstances in a Suffolk mill.
Campion meets the delightful Amanda Fitton and she joins the campaign to put together the pieces which will solve the mystery.There are not as many eccentrics in this although Dr. Galley is decidedly odd and Savanake preposterously villainous.Again there are a few classical references.
Elsewhere there are references to Orpheus and his lieut i.e. Campion and Amanda.
Interestingly, here, it is Amanda who rescues Albert and they both rescue the claim to Averna and the family fortunes.An enjoyable potpourri or plum pudding of a novel.
Wildly improbable and melodramatic, with ruthless villains, black magic, a mad doctor, a secret marriage, an obscure prophecy, lost heirs, and an unexpectedly valuable inheritance.
Fun and different!
Albert Campion and Amanda Fitton are both keenly interested in re-establishing the title to the rightful heir (her brother Hal), before a robber baron named Savanake gets his claws on it.
Amanda Fitton makes the book: she's one of the most interesting female heroines of the golden age of British detective writing.
Very modern thinking for the early 1930s.The shrewd Albert Campion finally meets his intellectual and eventual romantic match in the precocious Amanda, although at this point, because of their twelve-year age difference, both are playful about their alliance (maybe Campion more so than Amanda).
However, the whole story is so implausible that it may be best thought of as a fantasy, first published in 1933, but akin to one of Jasper Fforde's more modern stories.Along with being fantastic, it's also an exciting, charming, and romantic adventure story, set mostly in darkest Suffolk, although it begins with an unlikely encounter on the Mediterranean coast of France: starting as it means to go on.Although the story is obviously dated, the writing style is remarkably fresh; Allingham was still in her twenties at the time of writing, and this is a young person's book.The plot revolves around the lost title to the tiny kingdom of Averna, located somewhere on the Adriatic coast; although the story never takes us there.
The usual subtlety of Allingham's text is a bit less striking than usual, but the broad strokes of the plot make up any deficiency in fun.Rereading April 2017: Picked this off the library shelf without realizing I'd read it already.
I figured out not too many chapters in that I'd seen the story on TV, but it was a long time before I was quite sure I'd also read it.
I'm not sure what inspired Margery Allingham to give Campion a romantic attraction to a woman not yet old enough to marry, but it creates an interesting tension, handled in a light-hearted way.
Contrary to the blurbs on the cover ,Sweet danger is actually an Adventure not a thriller or a whodu
BBC produced a series called Campion based on these books which I really like.
The Fear Sign happened to be the only one of the Albert Campion books that my library had.
The book was overall okay with a few scattered laugh out loud lines mixed in.
Maybe it was this particular plot line that I didn't particularly enjoy or maybe because I kept comparing it to the show.
But I think it would be worth tracking down other books in the series to give them another shot because I think the main character, Campion, is hilarious.
I have definitely decided to skip the rest of this series.
I dislike the premise to start with; a man living over a police station under an assumed name?
There seem to be a number of people who know Campion's real name, but are discrete about it.
Is he protecting his family by engaging in police work under another name?
He is patronising to "lower" class people, he makes unnecessary mysteries.
No, I don't like Mr. Campion and the stories all seem to be about plots with some Mr. Big in charge.
There was a reason those stories went out of fashion.
I read the entire Allingham series earlier, and liked them all. This one is one of my favorites. I like the ones that feature Amanda Fitton.The series was written from the late 1920's through the 1960's, and the tone and style is not the same in all of the books. Some were humorous, witty whodunits, some were more serious novels.
An absolute corker, one of my favourite Campions to date!
