https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86236.Into_the_Forest
this is definitely a novel.i mean, i never thought it was a true story, but i just want to emphasize that decisions characters make in this book are very much suitable for literary purposes; they provide dramatic tension and character development and a story arc, but as far as practical decision-making goes, these sisters fall a little short.
and there was a period when i thought, "hey - these girls finally have it together and are taking real steps towards their own survival," only to modify that somewhat later to, "oh, these characters are making decisions that will have literary appeal and dramatic heft.

Where to start?First off, I was a bit irritated by the implausibility of the characters' transformations from civilized girls to wild women.
After reading The Omnivores Dilemma just a couple months ago, it was hard not to scoff at, say, the pig-hunting episode, or the "I'm gonna teach myself how to shoot a rifle today!" episode, or the ease with which the girls begin identifying edible plants in their yard with nothing but the help of a poorly illustrated field guide.
My only issue was the way the story was told: through journal entries that Nell wrote.
I feel like if the story had been told in third person it would have given a more complete picture of what the two sisters went through, and would be more realistic than Nell constantly writing in a journal despite all of the other things keeping her busy.
Other than that, I was obsessed with this book, and I think anybody looking to read a really realistic apocalypse story should give this a try.
I, um, pretty much talked her into buying a book that I kinda wanted to read.
Worrying where your next meal is going to come from (Nell) and no dreams (Eva).
The point of the book was kinda bullshit because in the end Nell is still just collecting facts and cowtowing to her sister.
Nell still goes with Eva into the forest where she'll continue to take care of the person who would never care enough to set the boundaries in the first place.
Nell had the chance to BE her own person, away from Eva, and she did not take it.
This book is weird.For the first 100 pages or so, I loved loved LOVED the story.
Basically...it half scared the crap out of me, and half made me want to dance around my house hugging everything from my clean socks to the light switches.Then, the characters take over the book, and it is downhill from there.
Especially when they "made love." (Sorry for the spoiler, but I sure wish someone had warned me about it.)So the portrayal of a dystopian America gets 5 stars...and the characters get nil.
I compromised and gave the book 3 stars.

In this haunting and thought-provoking book, a series of natural disasters and man-made events conspire to bring the U.S. to its knees as the infrastructure gradually begins to falter.
Eventually all utilities shut down completely, and without electricity and gas, there is no real news—-just rumors.
Even as they begin to grow and preserve their own food, and then develop more aggressive survival skills, they watch their resources dwindle.
It's hard to read this book without feeling like an unappreciative squanderer.
This is an amazing story about survival against all odds and about the gifts of nature, and finally about a much-tested love between sisters.
By its very nature the beautiful is isolated from everything else.From beauty no road leads to reality. ~Hannah Arendt  I waited for over a year to read Into the Forest. In that frame of time, I had imagined this idea in my head of a book filled with controversy and chaos. The reality of what this book was never crossed paths with what I had imagined. It was far better.This story takes place in a post-apocalyptic time but it is not a post-apocalyptic book. This story features an act of incest
I waited for over a year to read Into the Forest.
It was far better.This story takes place in a post-apocalyptic time but it is not a post-apocalyptic book.
My favorites being Little House in the Big Woods and The Long Winter, the common thread between those two stories being the elements of day-to-day survival and finding the means to care for oneself with limited resources.
I did not mind the open ending but I'm not sure if I would have made the same decision that they did.
Even though I know that this type of story won't be for everyone, I'm so glad that I took the time.
The story is told through Nell's POV, and it would be hard to craft a generic character.
Although the girls are alone with each other for most of the story, their relationship has only the trappings of intimacy, and none of the depth of it.
This book has all the emotional intensity of a school essay--and reads like one, too.OK, so the characters and emotional life are a bit lacking--surely their methods of survival would make up for it?
Hegland is as vague about how to can or make acorn flour as she is on the intricacies of the girls' relationship.
After hearing about the basic themes of the book, essentially 2 sisters in the middle of nowhere trying to survive after some sort of war or peak oil situation (it's never clear what's going on exactly) essentially shuts down civilization as we know it, I was expecting to like it.
Granted, the scene isn't graphic at all, it's pretty much limited to one line, something like "And then we made love, my sister and I." I don't have a problem with the lesbianism or the incest, I mean hell, it's a NOVEL.
And I actually think there reactions to the end of the world as they know it is probably how a lot of people would react - with a bit a denial and an unreasonable hope that things will get better soon.I found the characters pretty unlikeable however.
Nell, the heroine of the story, was of course the more interesting one, but even she had her moments.
I was actually pretty accepting of the book until the very end.
However, the ending for me ruined the entire thing.
I can see why some people like the book, but the weird plot points lost me.
I had to think about this book overnight before figuring out what I thought about it.
But a couple of things happened near the end that were disturbing which ruined the book for me.
(view spoiler)[There was an incestual scene, not graphic, but whaaattt?
(hide spoiler)]The two items were totally unnecessary to the story so they must have been there for shock value.
I would have rated this a high 4, but because of those bizarre scenes, I lowered my rating.
Then we watch as the sisters try to figure out how to survive when most of their resources are gone and how to maintain their relationship when other people come into the picture or when conflict arises.I love post-apocalyptic books but this is much different from any I have read in the past.
First, the beginning is very, very slow and I imagine a lot of people would simply put the book down and stop reading.
I did however, really like the ending of the book and thought it was not only good closure for the book but that Nell and Eva also finally figured out their relationship as sisters.
i had some difficulty relating to the main characters, but the story of the slowly crumbling infrastructure of the united states is incredibly compelling, and i found myself thinking, "oh my gosh, that could really happen ...
Then, too, they cursed and complained, and soon adjusted, almost forgetting their lives had ever been any other way." this is a haunting story that creeps back into your psyche each time a phone call is answered by the automated response, "We're sorry, all lines are busy now.
“Maybe it’s true that the people who live through the times that become history’s pivotal points are those least likely to understand them.”This is the end of the world.
Eva and Nell, two sisters, live in a house that is 10 miles from their nearest neighbor, many more miles from the nearest town.
It isn't until their mother dies that they start to leave the house, visiting town once a week.But as soon as they begin to visit town, they begin to notice things are turning.
Slowly, they being to live off the land and try to find a way to survive.It's an intense story about survival and love and how to keep going.
The fictional town of Redwood reminds me of Sebastopol.So first you have to wrap your mind around a society which is falling apart: natural disasters, disease, government infrastructure collapsing, etc.There is a family who lives about 30 miles from the town of Redwood, as as things start to collapse they learn to cope in their individual ways.
Scary and strange, yes I suppose it could happen.My issue with the book is that once I chose to become part of this world so I could get into the story, there were still situations that pulled me back, things that maybe would unlikely happen, even in that breakdown of society.
After a string of lighter reads, I felt ready and relieved to tackle something with more substance, more darkness, and so I picked up Into the Forest from the library having little to no idea what I was about to get myself into.One of the things I liked most about this book was that you know no more about what is going on in the world outside the forest than Nell and Eva do.
And even if it only decreases by a fraction, the fact that this book has at all changed my habits is a testament to the quality and insight of its' content.Jean Hegland, it was a pleasure.
This book?
In a way, I guess it's a more realistic look at what a post-apocalyptic world would look like for a family that was already pretty much living off the grid.
Nell cans tomatoes.
Nell learns how to kill a pig.
All, conveniently, by reading encyclopedias that are in the house.
I am as if-ing all over this book.
He just randomly hikes out to your house?
Nell needs a hi-5.
The rape?
And the subsequent rape-baby?
This my friends, is the danger of home-schooling your children and isolating them from the real world.
ALL of that being said, this book has a lot of beautiful writing in it.
When 9/11 hit, I was reading this book. It was frightening and exciting all at once. It is about a sickness that causes everyone to either die or hide. Two sisters go into the forest with their family and later must learn to survive on their own. I learned some interesting survival techniques and think that if we ever have to go survive in our cabin in some type of disaster situation, I just might have some skills.
J'ai déjà été déçue par les romans de retour à la nature forcé (je pense à Le Mur invisible notamment), mais Dans la forêt restera très près de mon coeur et de mes pensées maintenant que je l'ai refermé.
La plume de Jean Hegland est superbe, sobre puis lyrique tour à tour, j'ai relu des passages entiers en me répétant "mon dieu c'est comme ça que j'aimerai écrire".J'ai adoré les thématiques, subtilement tressées entre elles : le deuil, l'instinct de survie, la passion comme échappatoire, la sororité...
It must have taken little convincing, though, as I do like novels in which society has collapsed and the main characters are women.
(hide spoiler)]In some ways, this 1998 novel feels like a harbinger of the current trend for literary novels to employ post-apocalyptic settings as a backdrop for narratives of relationships and emotions.
And after the darkness of the parental deaths and the rape, there was little reason to expect such a hopeful conclusion.
(hide spoiler)] While the apocalypse was frustratingly vague and the narrative relentlessly individualist, I forgave 'Into the Forest' as the sisters were interesting and their struggles well-told.
Everything the girls (mainly Nell) learned, she learned on her own, through her own interests, from books, from trial and error, from invention.
As to the characters, I liked Nell more than Eva, as I thought she was more I interesting and resourceful and nicer.
I admit that I did like her mother's pushing her to entertain herself, to pursue her own dreams, and to "be her own person," when she whined about Eva's desertion of her in pursuit of ballet.At the end of the book Eva "stepped up" and took charge and I think the book ended in the best way it could.
A poignant, sensual and carefully written book that will remain quietly in my mind for a long time to come.
What Hegland does so skillfully is to convey the diminution of the girls' physical impact as the natural world seeks to reclaim her ground, yet also the strengthening of their characters and bodies as they are forced to work for their survival.
There is also great hope and wisdom embodied in these two girls who become father, mother, lover and protector in the months that we are allowed into their world.
A series of events leaves the girls stranded on their homestead, surviving on dwindling stores, and no contact with the outside world.
As soon as I began reading this story, I was struck by how easily this could happen.
Our world seems very close to unraveling and this book brought immediately to my attention just how easily things could go awry.
It was inspiring to read about how these girls learned to survive and at the same time deal with the extreme grief and loss of not only their family, but life as they knew it, their hopes and dreams.
J'ai dévoré ce roman. J'ai tout de suite été happé par l'histoire et les deux personnages principaux, Eva et Nell. Ces deux sœurs se retrouvent à survivre dans leur maison de famille au fond des bois suite à la disparition de l'électricité. L'intrigue est prenante et racontée avec beaucoup de poésie. Ça aurait pu être un coup de coeur si quelques éléments ne m'avaient pas dérangé..
This book was SO good until about halfway when the author made it get extremely weird. Besides the very disturbing parts, the ending was terrible as well.
Bon, en soit, ça a été une bonne lecture, mais pas un coup de coeur.Bien qu'il y ait peu de détails, j'ai de suite accroché avec le réalisme de la fin de notre civilisation qui sert de base au roman (plus d'essence, ni d'électricité, des magasins fermés...) Non pas que je n'apprécie pas la science fiction mais disons que la plausibilité de cet effondrement me touche particulièrement.J'ai aimé le fait que l'histoire, racontée au travers le journal intime de Nell, soit écrite simplement.
Ce roman est un étonnant mélange d'histoire post-apocalyptique et de nature writing.
Une bonne partie du récit était assez angoissante, non seulement parce que les deux jeunes filles doivent faire face seules à un monde transformé, mais aussi pcq ce nouveau monde pourrait très bien être le nôtre.
L'autrice dénonce les dérives de notre société et les menaces qui pèsent sur nous et ça m'a vraiment saisie.Mais c'est aussi un message d'espoir et d'amour.
Face à un mode de vie totalement chamboulé, Nell et Eva vont devoir faire le deuil de beaucoup de choses pour pouvoir renaître et s'adapter, c'est difficile et angoissant mais aussi intense et beau.Un roman digne de Gallmeister !
L'écriture est superbe, et nous emporte dans ce monde qui est quasi à portée de mains, si nous continuons sur ce chemin avec nos œillères.
Nous sommes dans un monde détruit, l'électricité ne fonctionne plus, les épidémies se développent, la méfiance règne : ce contexte apparaît en filigrane, mais là n'est pas l'essentiel.
Et la question en filigrane : aurons-nous l'intelligence et l'instinct pour survivre dans un climat hostile, comme le font ces deux jeunes filles ?
Plus que jamais, il est temps de faire des efforts pour le monde de demain.
