https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22590.Ubik
Joe Chip works for a team that shields organizations and the general public from illegal super-psychological activity like, for example, the unethical use of precognition.
The LOA edition (you know, those heavy black books with the nifty attached bookmark) includes three other novels, notes from Jonathan Lethem, and a detailed author timeline/biography.
This novel is the poster child for the difference between workmanlike genre fiction (nothing wrong with that) and the kind that makes you want to jump and down with your hands in the air like you're a twelve year old at his first rock concert.
His novels are genius, and Ubik may be the best one I have read yet.
Telling an inventive sci-fi tale that is entertaining on its surface, this is also a theological metaphor that keeps the reader thinking and trying to figure out what in the world PKD is getting at.
His brilliance is compelling and his forays into a more absurd fiction only heighten his return to substantial narrative, but all is held together by his unmistakable voice.
For a PKD fan, Ubik is a must read, but it is a fine book all by itself and would be a good introduction into his world.
Ubik the review is easy-to-read, easy-to-understand, nonflammable, and avoids directly mentioning those aspects of your existence that might make you squirm.
Beware grammatical and typographical errors.____________________________Dick, like Pynchon, has a THING for entropy and he perfected this theme in Ubik.
Dick seems more than willing to bend entire universes to create a world where he can ask some really BIG questions in ways that give you two more levels of uncertainty.
Every time I read another of PKD's novels it is the exact same thing.
Each Dick novel should come with its own Ubik-type of warning: this novel will alter your reality, even when read as directed.
It is about psychic power battles, the nature of death, alternative reality and changing the past.
Who are the goodies and who the baddies in such a setup: "A policeman guarding human privacy" or "trying to turn the clock back"?Glen Runciter is the larger than life figure who heads one such prudence organisation, and Joe Chip is his right hand man.
she merely can't contact you.' Runciter said 'A metaphysical difference which means nothing to me.'" QUOTES* "Herbert felt the weight of the hand, its persuading vigor".
Hoping to appeal to black voters while retaining the support of the KKK?
Use Trump!Need to balance the budget while increasing military spending and reducing taxes?
Trump will do it!Trying to combine total openness with complete secrecy?
Trump makes it simple!Looking to stand up to foreign aggressors while fawning all over Vladimir Putin?
It's possible with Trump!If you require a woman-friendly message that stars Roger Ailes...
Trump's the answer!Want to crush ISIS without sending more troops to the Middle East?
Trump's got a secret plan!Tired of the law of the excluded middle and prefer 2 + 2 to make 5?
What those inertials really need is leadership and guidance from none other than down-to-earth Joe Chip.Pat Conley – An enigmatic, cagey dark beauty with the unique psychic ability to undo events by changing the past.
Having such a unique ability, Glen Runciter decides to include Pat in the critically important mission to Luna.
- From the moment of the explosion on Luna, the group begins to experience strange shifts in reality and time, including a number of chapters in their adventure covering the United States back in 1939.
La genialidad de Dick consiste en contarnos una historia que al principio del libro es confusa o no entendemos bien de qué se trata hasta que a partir de ese viaje a Luna de Joe Chip y un grupo de telépatas y precognitores (una suerte de tergiversador del pasado y adivino del futuro) ocurre algo que cambiará sus destinos hasta el final del libro.Otro aspecto genial de este libro es la manera que se suceden distintas regresiones en el tiempo, o saltos entre realidades, lo que hace que la novela le haga trampas al lector, quien desorientado, no sepa para dónde se orienta la trama.Pero todo esto se desencadena hacia las últimas cien páginas.
.. "He felt all at once like an ineffectual moth, fluttering at the windowpane of reality, dimly seeing it from the outside."  -Philip K Dick "A fool and his poscreds are soon parted." -Kevin AnsbroPlease allow me to preface my review by stating that sci-fi is not normally my thang. Aside from Asimov, when I was a teenager, I've preferred to watch it, and write it, rather than read it. In fact, were it not for Obi-Wan Cecily's recommendation, I might have erroneously imagined Philip K Dick to ha
In fact, were it not for Obi-Wan Cecily's recommendation, I might have erroneously imagined Philip K Dick to have been a 1970s' porn star!Well, I'm relieved and pleased to report that this pre-cyberpunk gigglefest was an absolute joy to behold!Written in the late 1960s, Ubik is set in the 'future' of 1992, a future we've overstepped without one sniff of dystopia.From way back then, Dick presents us with an analogue dreamworld that we can still enjoy in a digital age.
“He felt all at once like an ineffectual moth, fluttering at the windowpane of reality, dimly seeing it from outside.” Ubik is a fun, fascinating, and often surprisingly philosophical look at the nature of reality and the role of our perception thereof. PKD also delves masterfully, cleverly, and even quite exuberantly, into some of his other favorite food for thought, which in this case includes entropy, alienation, and the question of (in)sanity, to name but a few. All the while, the story pla
Ubik is a fun, fascinating, and often surprisingly philosophical look at the nature of reality and the role of our perception thereof.
And if there are plural realities, are some more true (more real) than others?
Maybe it's as real as our world.
Maybe we cannot say that we are in touch with reality and he is not, but should instead say, His reality is so different from ours that he can't explain his to us, and we can't explain ours to him.
The problem, then, is that if subjective worlds are experienced too differently, there occurs a breakdown in communication ...
What I want more than anything right now is for some fashion designer or talented artist to do a series of illustrations of the clothing in this book.
[Don Denny]• a sporty maroon wrapper, twinkle-toes turned-up shoes and a felt cap with a tassel [Joe Chip]• his electric-yellow cummerbund, petal skirt, knee-hugging hose and military-style visored cap [standard office worker]I mean…I can't even picture half of those in my head.
If this doesn't turn out to be one of my favourites of his, I'll eat my apricot-colured felt hat.
It starts out with a very far-fetched future world set in 1992, and the plot revolves around telepaths, inertials, prudence organizations, snarky coin-operated household appliances, "cold-pac" half-life moratoriums, crazily excessive clothing styles, mysterious life-enhancing spray cans, life force-sucking half-life entities, and scariest of all, 1939 Des Moines, Iowa~Well, there isn't much point describing the plot, since it just gets weirder and more disorienting as the story progresses, but surprisingly PDK is in full control of the story and tone despite the strange twists and confusion the protagonists suffer through.
And although there are many humorous elements, overall the story is dark, philosophical, and just plain disorienting.I found the book impossible to put down and engrossing, and I really like the fact that SF books back in the 1950s/60s were SHORT and TO THE POINT.
Dick is generally very welled loved by the sf readership, nobody writes quite like him.
In a good way of course.It is difficult for me to choose a Dick favorite, I have never read anything by him that I did not like.
Dick tend to be criticized for poor writing style and characterization, I have no such issues with his work.
As for the characters, they seem like pretty odd individuals to me, they tend to do and say the most unexpected things, I like that about them.If you have never read any PKD book before you need to rectify the situation ASAP, Ubik is a great one to start with.
Once again I bow to the genius that is Philip K. Dick.. I'm envious of his madness really because it's so wonderfully controlled. I really do think that he was born in the wrong time, or maybe he's visiting from the future, or maybe he's an alien. Needless to say I loved the book. Packed full of adventure, original as always and a thoroughly enjoyable experience.
Dick, because they both use writing to question the nature of reality.
(hide spoiler)] Every chapter is basically a twist ending to the chapter before it - this book is like a series of trapdoors - and in the final twist, (view spoiler)[Runciter realizes that he too is dead.
(hide spoiler)]Ubik - pronounced like "ubiquitous" - is slippery.
Like Kafka, Dick isn't trying to write something that makes sense.
At first I was thinking his face was going to appear on the coins in my pocket, but then I remembered that in 2017 coins no longer exist in the United States.But then suddenly coins did exist.
Useless devices.I had spent so much time ranting about how I suddenly had coins I couldn't use that I failed to notice how stale my cigarettes were.
"Spray paint will solve all your problems when you're dead," he said.
That's why you can use spray paint.
You can also use spray paint as deodorant or breakfast cereal, or any of the other advertised purposes found in your cherished bombed book.
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.
I am Ubik.
Before the universe was, I am.
I made the suns.
I made the worlds.
I created the lives and the places they inhabit; I move them here, I put them there.
They go as I say, then do as I tell them.
I am the word and my name is never spoken, the name which no one knows.
I am called Ubik, but that is not my name.
I shall always be.
Three stars, but also four stars, and two stars, and five stars and only one.
I've not read much sci-fi and
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.
I am Ubik.
Before the universe was, I am.
I made the suns.
I made the worlds.
I am the word and my name is never spoken, the name which no one knows.
I am called Ubik, but that is not my name.
I've not read much sci-fi and I just can't review something like this: I feel ill-equipt and under qualified.
Argh I just don't know.
Once I've delved further in to sci-fi, and Dick in particular, I'll return to this.Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
Dick's strangest novels.
Those who have read his novels know that is saying a lot.
This is one of his wittiest novels.
Yet sooner or later Dick will take you into the weird dimension and he does it with finesse.
frustrated protagonists, strange alternate realities, a taste of the mystic, etc...for a Dick novel is here and they come together nicely with one of his best and most cryptic endings.
This would be a great introductory read for those not familiar with this great athor.
In fact, I would say if you haven't read Ubik, you haven't read Dick.Sorry.
perché al di là del fatto che per distonia non leggo mai i foglietti con le istruzioni, se avessi immaginato tutte le implicazioni sulla realtà vissuta e/o percepita, sul sistema delle merci (meglio: sulla mercificazione del sistema), sulle proiezioni e su una simulazione (chiamala se vuoi semi-vita) in cui puoi scoprire di essere congelato grazie alla scritta sul muro di un bagno pubblico, ecco se-io-avessi-previsto-tutto-questo e il molto altro, l'ansia da prestazione comprensiva mi avrebbe tolto metà del piacere di lettura.
che ci vuol niente, non facendo uso di anfetamine, a sentirsi stupidi anche se non ci si mette di mezzo una trama così complessa da parermi a tratti dick-ensiana.
But wait there’s more…..It is hard to read a Sci-Fi book from 1969 and not feel like it is dated especially since the far off future is 1992.
Dick (PKD) thought we’d make it a lot farther than we actually did technology wise with the flying cars and talking electronics but since 1992 is our past sometimes it is hard to get past the things that are so off for that time period.A few things that are pretty cool in this book is the actual world and some of the discoveries in it.
Like every character in the book was a smoker and some of the story totally revolved around cigarettes.
I asked Goodreads if they knew of any books like this movie, and I received two suggestions by P.K. Dick, “Ubik,” and “Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?”  For some time this year I left the “pleasures” of reading to pursue my dreams of writing.
And now I’ve read “Ubik,” by P.K. Dick.
I want to write for pleasure now, not to achieve some pompous goal to prove something to myself only to cry I have no more worlds to conquer like Alexander the Great.
He keeps me wanting to read, and reminds me of my best reason to write fiction.
I've been meaning to try one of Dick's sci-fi books for years because I have enjoyed a lot of his books and novellas that got adapted into movies.
It was a good thing I had low expectations because Ubik turned out to be a pretty average read.
Once the reality twisting stuff started up about mid-way the fun bits of Dick's sci-fi world started to take a back seat and the story and the characters were not strong enough to keep me fully engaged.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Don't Throw the Baby Out With the Bath Water: "Ubik" by Philip K.
Dick "'I am Ubik.
Dick  This would feel like a meaningless read indeed if it wasn't, in fact, a very FUNNY one, full of a dry humor.
What makes Ubik a wonderful read still today?
The result may seem a potpourri but his worlds live and breathe.
I think the current fascination with Dick seems tied to the fact that most of his most popular books have dystopian or control themes.
Ubik es una novela extraña, que va evolucionando mientras encajas las piezas hasta un final magnífico. Tal vez el peaje que paga en la primera parte para poner en contexto todo lo que sucede en la segunda es lo que lastra un poco el desarrollo general de la historia. Pero cuando consigues avanzar unos cuantos capítulos, K. Dick crea una historia psicológica, filosófica y detectivesca increíble y que demuestra la capacidad del autor.
E io, in che parte dell'universo ho vissuto per non aver mai letto niente di suo?
Certo che per avere delle paranoie simili, tanto bene Philip non doveva stare.
Dick crea un labirinto concentrico che frastorna il lettore, lo ipnotizza, lo fa dubitare di quello che sta leggendo, poi di se stesso e infine del mondo intero.
E di quello che Ubik potrebbe essere, credo esista un'ipotesi per ogni persona che ha letto questo libro.
(innocuo se usato secondo le istruzioni).Edit: alla fine ho dato 5 stelle perchè, riguardando i libri a cui ne avevo date 4, ho visto che la differenza come gradimento di lettura era troppa :)
I don't know why but I always get a huge kick out of reading an older sci-fi story that was set in the near future, but it's a date I've lived through.
Joe Chip is a tester for Glen Runcitor's anti-psi security firm, and when a job with a team of Runcitor employees goes horribly wrong, Joe finds reality shifting around him and is soon unable to distinguish past from present and what's real from what isn't.
A little dated, but pretty good stuff with a lot of dark humor, which is something there isn't enough of in sci-fi.
La relatività della vita "Prima che l'universo fosse, io ero."Dick, mai come in questo romanzo, dest
Glen Runciter is dead, or maybe he's not.
All the people who work for him in his anti-paranormal "Prudence Organization" are dead, or maybe they're not.
Dick, after all, and bending our minds was always one of his greatest talents.The problem for me, though, is that Ubik's execution doesn't match the brilliance of the idea it's trying to express.
It feels like a lesser episode of The Twilight Zone; one of those episodes that couldn't transcend the time of its making, so we're too aware of its post-Nuclear War, pre-Space Age placement.
Ubik, like its Twilight Zone kin, is too dated, which isn't unique in the oeuvre of Dick.
Even when I was as confused as Joe Chip about what in the hell was really going on, I loved every second of it.
I love the Ubik ads at the beginning of each chapter.
So funny :) I think the first time reading this book will always be special because you don't yet know what's actually going on and it's all a mystery that you unravel with the merry band of characters.
However I suspect I'll get a lot out of re-reads of this one and I'm very much looking forward to that already.
If you haven't read it, you really should.
Hey, what happened to my review? It was here recently but now seems to have vanished. Maybe it died in a bomb blast on the moon. Or maybe it crawled, weakened and frightened, into my closet in the middle of the night to die. Or maybe it's not dead at all. Maybe I'm dead, and my review is alive, trying to reach me through various apparitions in what I perceive to be reality. Or maybe it's all different. One thing's for sure: I'm going to need a lot of Ubik.
I'm going to echo one of the reviews I read earlier. What just happened?!? Apparently reality is simply a matter of perspective...I love it when the classics are still so incredibly fascinating! This one definitely stands up to the test of time. For a better review, why reinvent the wheel when Alex has already written perfection.4+ StarsListened to the audio book. Luke Daniels was excellent
