https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54283.When_Hitler_Stole_Pink_Rabbit

(Me included!)Anna tells the story the odyssey her family is forced to undertake in 1933, when Hitler grasps power in Germany and her family has to leave Berlin in a hurry - being Jewish and politically active against the Nazis.
When the family moves on to England, she has new confidence in her ability to adapt, and she starts out with the knowledge that she might not be able to understand a word right now, but if she gives it a couple of months, she will talk without any difficulty.
4,5'tan 5
Her family fled Germany just before Hitler came to power because her father was a well-known writer, and had been openly criticizing the Nazis.
Anna is 9 when the story opens and she first learns she is a Jew. She hadn’t realised she was one as her family didn’t follow any of the customs or worship as Jews.
Just after they arrive in Switzerland to join Anna’s father Hitler wins the election and now has supreme power in Germany.WHEN HITLER STOLE PINK RABBIT is written from a child’s point of view, so innocently we see how a once well-off family finds themselves to be now poor and struggling to make ends meet.
-3.5-"Algunas cosas habían sido difíciles, pero siempre había sido interesante, y a menudo divertido: y mamá y papá y Max y ella casi siempre habían estado juntos. Mientras estuvieran juntos, no podría tener nunca una infancia difícil."Es curioso ver un hecho histórico a través de los ojos de un niño inocente.
Até há 5 dias, nem sabia que este livro existia. Até que "tropecei" nele na prateleira de destaques da biblioteca e... ainda bem!Não só o adorei como o li na íntegra durante o dia de hoje. Mas que delícia de livro! Que bela introdução à temática da Segunda Guerra Mundial.Não se esqueçam, contudo, que é um livro infanto-juvenil.
In Germany this is done very well in school and after reading this novel, I can see why many people read it during their school time.Judith Kerr did a fantastic job describing this part of the German history from the view of a Jewish family escaping from Nazi Germany.
The story shows that no matter how difficult life can be there is always something that matters more than money or valuables and that are the people surrounding you.When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit is a story that gives hope and perfectly explains the most important bits of history of the Nazi time.
There's a kind of simplicity in the way they cover it, that always makes it feel more real to me.Carrie's War, Goodnight Mister Tom, The Kingdom by the Sea, The Machine Gunners, Blitzed...have all at some point or other been one of my favourite booksI'd been looking for this book for quite a while, and chanced upon it a while ago.It was a sweet book, with the main difference being that it didn't dive as deeply into the War as the others did.
There was no talk of bombs, and death was only lightly mentioned.
จะวาไป หนังสือเลมนีนับวาเปนอัตชีวประวัติของผูเขียนดวยเหมือนกันหากแตเขาไดเลามันออกมาเปนเรืองราวของเดกหญิงเลกๆ วัย 9 ขวบคนหนึงทีตองอพยพลีภัยออกจากบานเกิดเมืองนอนเพียงเพราะครอบครัวของเธอมีสายเลือดยิวนีเปนเพียงกรณีหนึงทีเรารับรูกันดี ถึงเรืองราวเลวรายทีฮิตเลอรทำเลมนีไมใชโศกนาฏกรรม ไมไดทารุณจิตใจหากแตเปนเหตุการณในชวงทีเธอและครอบครัวตองอพยพจากประเทศหนึงไปยังอีกประเทศไมจบสินแมวาสำนวนแปลมันจะดูไทยไทย และกเดกเดกแตเราชอบสำนวนแปลของผูแปลนะมันเขากันกับเนือหาทีไมหมนจนเกินไปนักมันทำใหเรืองสุดดารกในประวัติศาสต
จะว่าไป หนังสือเล่มนี้นับว่าเป็นอัตชีวประวัติของผู้เขียนด้วยเหมือนกันหากแต่เขาได้เล่ามันออกมาเป็นเรื่องราวของเด็กหญิงเล็กๆ วัย 9 ขวบคนหนึ่งที่ต้องอพยพลี้ภัยออกจากบ้านเกิดเมืองนอนเพียงเพราะครอบครัวของเธอมีสายเลือดยิวนี่เป็นเพียงกรณีหนึ่งที่เรารับรู้กันดี ถึงเรื่องราวเลวร้ายที่ฮิตเลอร์ทำเล่มนี้ไม่ใช่โศกนาฏกรรม ไม่ได้ทารุณจิตใจหากแต่เป็นเหตุการณ์ในช่วงที่เธอและครอบครัวต้องอพยพจากประเทศหนึ่งไปยังอีกประเทศไม่จบสิ้นแม้ว่าสำนวนแปลมันจะดูไท้ยไทย และก็เด้กเด็กแต่เราชอบสำนวนแปลของผู้แปลนะมันเข้ากันกับเนื้อหาที่ไม่หม่นจนเกินไปนักมันทำให้เรื่องสุดดาร์กในประวัติศาสตร์ ดูน่ารัก และเบาลงเป็นเรื่องที่เด็กๆ อ่านได้ และได้เปิดโลกทัศน์ส่วนเล็กๆรับรู้บางเหตุการณ์ในสงครามโลกครั้งที่ 2 ไปพร้อมกันด้วย
II. Dünya Savaşı'na dair -gerçekten- farklı bir bakış açısı arayanlar için ideal bir kitap. Savaşı arkaplana alarak kültürel çatışmaları ve mülteciliğin enteresan yanlarını ele alıyor. Hakiki olaylardan esinleniyor olması da cabası.
This book is brilliant, the story is heart warming and a new favourite of mine. I liked how it focuses on a child's confused/ever so slightly naive thought process of the First World War. It shows Anna's pure excitement and slight anxiety about becoming a refugee in Switzerland, then France and finally England. I am going to make sure I have a copy of this book in my classroom.
Esta es la historia de Anna y de las aventuras que vive cuando, junto con su familia, sale de su Alemania natal tras la subida de Hitler al poder para ir a vivir a Suiza, luego a Francia y finalmente a Inglaterra.
Se encontrará con los problemas típicos de su edad y enfrentará otros más serios con el mayor ánimo, como la necesidad de aprender un nuevo idioma para poder ir a la escuela y hacer nuevos amigos.El punto de vista de Anna convierte a Hitler en un ruido de fondo que da algún que otro dolor de cabeza a sus padres pero también en el inicio de una serie de acontecimientos la mar de excitantes.
This book is aimed at pre-teens / early secondary school level, but I thoroughly enjoyed it, and possibly empathised more with the adults, particularly the mother, than I might have done if I'd read it as a child.This is one of those stories rarely told about the period preceding WWII; the everyday difficulties of a Jewish family who left Germany before Hitler came to power.
When he rises to power, Anna and her family are forced to leave their home behind.
When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit is written in a way that reflects the real dangers of the author’s own childhood while still having a lightheartedness about it.
This book contrasts many war-time stories in that Anna is not an orphan – she always has her parents with her.
Also, there isn’t lots of worry about Hitler - the book focuses more on how the family will survive as refugees.
I recommend When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit for ages 8 and up and give it 3 out of 5 stars.
Although the author sticks to facts and memories, as much as possible, the book is presented as fiction -- she distances herself with the third-person point-of-view, and by referring to herself as "Anna" (which actually was one of her names, as she explains in the Author's Note).As a popular and well-known critic of Hitler's Nazi party, Judith's father Alfred Kerr was at the top of Hitler's enemy list.
Anna, from a child's point of view, describes each new world -- and her experiences of learning how to fit in, make friends, negotiate a different educational system, and in the case of France, learn a new language.
Y muy de fondo, desafortunadamente para mí.Así que tras el telón histórico tan despreciable de la era del alzamiento del tercer Reig, nos encontramos con las desventuras de una familia de clase media de inmigrantes judíos, con los cambios a los que se verán abocados de un día para otro y todo bajo la mirada de Ana, la hija pequeña.Quien haya leído la sobria “el diario de Anna Frank” o la magnífica “La habitación de arriba”, encontrará que ésta presente obra adolece de dramatismo y no ahonda en las penalidades de un régimen tan punible y maldito así como en el duro martirio personal de sus protagonistas.
This book follows Anna throughout the first part of her journey, from Germany to Switzerland to France and finally to England.
The story is then continued in the much darker The Other Way Round.Anna is young, an innocent in many ways, and we see their journey through her eyes.
Kerr's ability is immense in this book, and she delivers the story in a simple, graceful style.
There's parts in this book that I remember from my first reading, many years ago, and the impact they had then has not lessened.
Muito mais do que uma história sobre a Segunda Guerra Mundial, esta é, acima de tudo, a história de uma família de refugiados.
Como o faz lembrar – e muito bem – Carla Maia de Almeida no prefácio, estamos a braços com a maior vaga de refugiados desde o tempo da Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Neste livro há muita coragem mas, sobretudo, muito afecto e uma mensagem importante: tudo está bem desde que a família esteja unida.Opinião completa no Deus me Livro: http://deusmelivro.com/critica/quando...
One of the favourite books of my childhood. I used to reread this obsessively, though it's been a long time since I last read it. But I found it a very touching and captivating story of how a child experienced having to flee from country to country after Hitler rose to power in Germany and then also began to overpower other countries. It didn't encumber the storytelling with the sort of historical detail that would have been tiresome to a child, but still gave me a vivid image of what it was like to live in such a time period.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1JFiK...Que livro tão bonito! Adorei a versão da Anna, uma criança que se torna numa refugiada, pois por ser judia, tem de sair do seu país...
Ein wirklich gutes Buch für das frühe Jugendalter über die Zeit des Nationalsozialismus. Anna und ihr Bruder Max müssen mit Mutter und Vater ihr gemütliches heim in Berlin verlassen. Ihr Vater, ein Regime kritischer Journalist und zudem Jude ist in Gefahr. Sie lassen sich zuerst in Zürich nieder und siedeln später nach Paris um.Das Buch ist aus Annas Sicht geschrieben, die selbst schriftstellerische Ambitionen hat.
I still love this as much as ever.
Her family chose to flee Germany just before the Nazis came to power because her father, Alfred Kerr, a well-known writer, had openly criticized this regime.
Their Onkle Julius, who happens to have had a Jewish grandmother, but thinks he is safe and that the Nazis won’t last anyway, is sorry to see them go, but expects the family back with a short time.The train to Switzerland is a harrowing adventure.
They soon learn that the Nazis had shown up at their home in Berlin to collect their passports the morning after the election that gave Hitler supreme power in Germany.
This is the story of a nonreligious family of cultural Jews who were smart enough to get out of Berlin right at the time of Hitler's election.
The father, a famous journalist and Nazi critic, got word that if Hitler was elected the Nazis were going to take his passport so he slipped out of the country to Prague and then to Switzerland a short time before the election.
He had his wife and kids come to Switzerland and they spent over a month in an expensive hotel and had the doctor in daily due to Anna becoming seriously ill.
All of a sudden, that strange grownup world of worry and fear tore into her safe childhood bubble.
Anna’s world as she had known it for her whole life began to fall apart at the seams, and with one train ride, it fell apart, never to be the same again.When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit is actually quite an interesting book.
However, this book didn’t make a huge impression on me – looking back on it a few weeks after reading it, I only remember it as a story of a girl and her family trying to find home in a war-torn continent.
This book is about a young girl and her family who move from Germany because they fear Hitler would soon be elected.
Her dad decides to move the family, because he is worried that if Hitler is elected that he would take his job away.
I thought that the family would get stopped by Hitler when they were leaving the country.
I felt like the book didn’t involve Hitler as much as it should have.
The book ending with the family in a new country and they were getting into a cab.
A lo largo de las páginas hay dificultades serias, pero también particulares alegrías que hacen que la familia tenga una vida compleja que se siente muy real a lo largo del libro, sin importar que el tono sea sencillo durante la trama."Cuando Hitler robó el conejo rosa" es el primer ejemplar de una trilogía en la que la vida de exiliada de Anna continúa lejos de donde pasó su infancia.
Anna and her family have to go to various countries and have to learn to adapt to the foreign customs.The title of this book (When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit) is actually a reference from the author's stuffed pink rabbit that she accidentally left behind when she herself was evacuated.
In fact, the whole book is based on her childhood, which makes this book all the more interesting.When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit is a very fast-paced, funny and cheerful as well as sad and deep story of World War 2 that I would recommend for ages 8+.
It is a simply written and true story of a young girl growing up at a time when Hitler came to power, forcing her father, a well-known, humorous and very outspoken writer who for his popular articles and radio programmes was on the top of a nazi list of persons who would have their passports revoked if and when Hitler came to power.
This book was originally written so that Judith would have a legacy to give her own grandchildren, but due to the success of this first book, two more have been written continuing the story.
Such a bad book. It was so boring... When I first saw this book, I bought it. When I read it, I realized, I wasted my money. This book is such a waste of your time. The title sounds interesting but when you read it you would want to put down your book at your 4th - 5th chapter. I read the whole book anyways because I didnt want to lose my money.
