https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75411.Summer_of_49
To make things even more interesting Joe’s little brother Dom played for the Red Sox. His whole career was spent in the shadow of his brother, but he was one hell of a player in his own right.
The Yankees and Red Soxs met in a final series at the very end of the season to determine who was going to win the pennantIt was very simple…win or go home.David Halberstam gives us an inside look, not only at the stars, but each significant player involved in this rivalry in 1949.
Because despite all the great things about baseball – the complex history; the mythic heroes; the traditions; the beer-swilling – the games also tend to be a bit boring at times.
In broad strokes, Summer of ‘49 is concerned with the 1949 pennant race between Joe DiMaggio’s New York Yankees and Ted Williams’ Boston Red Sox. Spoiler Alert for time-travelers from 1948: The battle came down to a final game in which the Yankees beat the then-hapless-now-insufferable Red Sox to go to the World Series.
The Summer of ‘49 is about the American League pennant race of that year between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. Although the author researched the book in usual ways, his main research consisted of interviewing scores of people mentioned in the book.
See http://www.baseball-reference.com/tea...This weekend the Yankees played a two-game series at Boston.
The Yankees played at home against the Philadelphia Athletics, who were actually 9 games above .500, in fifth place; the Red Sox traveled to Washington for a set against the last-place Senators, who were then 48-101.Each team was able to win, but not sweep, their series.
Mr. Halberstam begins the book in 1948, a year that featured a three-way battle for the league title between the Yankees, the Red Sox, and the Cleveland Indians.
All three teams were knotted with one week to go in the season, and when the dust settled, the Indians and Red Sox were tied and headed for a playoff game.
Understandably, Boston considered 1949 to be “their year.”The rest of the book takes the reader into the baseball season of 1949, covering the pennant race that would essentially be about two teams, Boston and New York.
For those of us who are Boston Red Sox or New York Yankee fans, one of the biggest baseball rivalries in history, 'Summer of '49' explains much of the history and romance of these two teams.
The subject is the pennant race of 1949 between the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox which wasn't decided until the last game of the season.
David Halberstam brings us the day to day spotliughts of the Red Sox and Yankees for an entire year, from the end of the 1948 season through 1949.
1949 was a bit before my first MLB ball game interest but this book, written 40 years after the season with the aid of most of the principle players, captures brilliantly one of the best pennant chases in history between two of the greatest rivals of all time: the Yankees and the Red Sox. At a time when baseball and American culture was on the verge of a monumental change because of television, this season was still played out in the imaginations of radio listeners.
I loved getting to know Bobby Doerr, Kinder and Allie Reynolds, Joe McCarthy, Eddie Lopat, Vic Raschi,, Dom DiMaggio, and Johnny Pesky.
Riveting account of the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry, featuring Hall of Famers Joe Dimaggio and Ted Williams as well as a host of other talented (though often less famous) ballplayers, during a heated race for the pennant and a time of great social change. Halberstam strikes a perfect balance between profiling players, culture, and play-by-play to keep readers sitting on the edge of our seats to learn how it ends -- more than six decades after the fact.
Um... it's a book about baseball. It would have been near impossible for me NOT to have loved it. The only way it could have been better would be if it came with its own beer. It didn't, so I supplied my own.
They are also applicable words to Halberstam’s well told novel about the Yankees-Red Sox pennant race in 1949, for if you were to judge this book by its cover you would think that it was a poorly researched cartoon about baseball.Once you get past the odd sight of Joe DiMaggio hitting left handed (with a reversed NY on his uniform) the book tells the tale of mid-century America with a focus on its most popular sport.
This is a baseball book, but it is not about the nitty-gritty events of a game.Halberstam rightly spends a good amount of time on the teams’ two stars: DiMaggio and Williams.
I usually stick to fiction, but a co-worker (and fellow Yankees fan) gave me a copy of this book and I decided to give it a read, and I was very pleasantly surprised.Even though "Summer of '49" is way before my time, I appreciated it on a number of levels.
In the final game of the season, Joe must win to get his World series check, and Dominic just wants to get to the great World Series.
Another great character who was in the story for all the years, and through ‘49, is Yogi Berra, as he transforms from a talented young rookie to a clubhouse leader.The story was a little off-centered, it started out way before ‘49, and then finally got to 1949 halfway through the book.
I t took many turns with different teams and different players, before reaching the destination, the 1949 season.this book is very humorous and has a great arsenal of quotes.
This was a great book for my taste as well, because it covered not only the baseball aspect of the year of 1949, but also how baseball affected society and the people in the United States during the time, so it doesn't have to be fore just baseball lovers.
Drowning in detail. Dull and hard to follow. The opposite of bringing a story to life.
This isn’t much of a book review but these were some of my dad’s favorite players. It was great to learn some background on them. I really enjoyed getting a peek into his “baseball world” and why he loved them so.
Great analysis on the diamond -- but off the field a little too stuffy and patrician!I tell everyone that this is the best baseball book I ever read, except for THE GLORY OF THEIR TIMES by Lawrence Ritter.
this book comes with a point of view.
It was truly astonishing, Halberstam often thought, that his own brilliance allowed him to see the heroism in these men's lives.
But on the field they played like Greek gods, like immortals who would live forever.
It was only fitting, Halberstam thought, that by celebrating their deeds he would become an immortal too."
Halberstam tells the story of the 1949 American League pennant race between the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees.
The outcome rested on the final game of the season when these two legendary rivals faced off in Yankee Stadium.
The topic has obvious appeal for fans of the game (particularly to those of us with a stake in this rivalry), but Halberstam offers a narrative that can charm the general reader as well.
He is at his best when he sticks to the tale of the season, the games, the players, and the fan reactions.
I used to go up to Cape Cod every summer.
We also went to Cape Cod League baseball games at night, go Cardinals!
Halberstam made you feel like you were a beat writer with the Yankees in the hey day of Joe D.
I remember lolling in that hammock, hanging on every word, praying for another game winning hit, catch or smart play by the great Joe Dimaggio.
play and neither did my dad, a Mickey Mantle fan from the '50s, but I got to feel the cool grace with which he played the game through that book.
I personally love baseball and also played sports growing up, so any sports story really gets me and reminds me of the competition and excitement of days gone by.
This book was especially good and reminded me why baseball is America's favorite pastime.
The pennant race between the Yankees and Red Sox was exciting and Halberstam made it come alive.
I loved the way he brought the players' personalities out in the book and really made me feel like I knew them.
Not only was it an exciting read with the race, but I also enjoyed learning some of the history of the game and the mid 1900's.
Read this at the perfect time, during my first trip to NYC which was to see games at Yankee and Mets stadia, which were torn down at the end of that season. Great weaving of player's lives with the baseball story and historical context of America. Interesting items - it was considered a sign of weakness to drink water during a game, and this was when wearing wool uniforms, also to eat a candy bar or anything like that. Even though the nation only had 3 million TV sets, fans were already clowning for the camera. Ahh America!
If you’re a fan of sunlit vistas, of Teddy Ballgame, Dommy (DiMaggio), Johnny (Pesky), and Bobby (Doerr), maybe Birdy Tebbetts too, or if you inhabit the benighted world of The Stadium, Joe (DiMaggio), Yogi, and Casey Stengel, this is one you should read. If you look up how the season ends you’ll cheat yourself out of enjoying those and many other larger-than-life personalities. But even more so, Halberstam really takes you to America, the way it was before Korea and Vietnam. Everyone should have that at least once.
This book was great...interesting story between the two rivals of the pennant race of 1949. Of course, as a die hard Red Sox fan I totally enjoyed it. I still believe Ted Williams (the last guy to ever bat .400) the greatest hitter that ever lived. It was also fun to see the Dimaggio brothers playing against each other as well. A good book for baseball fans and die hard Yanks or Sox fans everywhere!
What I most appreciated about this Halberstam baseball book was his sense of the ends and beginnings of different eras in the evolution of the game: racial integration, the dawn of televised games, the last seasons of Joe DiMaggio's career and the beginning of the years of Yankee dominance through the 1950s. A great read!
Fantastic book for anyone who loves getting lost in the magic of baseball. I throughly enjoyed all the little backstories of the lesser known players (except to the rabid or lifelong fan), and would recommend to all baseball aficionados--especially Red Sox and Yankees fans.
Fantastic book about the teams and great players, Yankees no Red Sox. Halberstam is a great sports writer.
I read Teammates first and really enjoyed it. This book was good but went on tangents from time to time that didn't relate as much to the Summer of 49.
It had been some time since I read a book about any kind of baseball history, but when I saw this one at the public library I felt compelled to pick it up after seeing who wrote it.
Before seeing this book, I admit did not have a high interest in reading about the 1949 Yankees and Red Sox. I'm not from New England or New York, but I love baseball's rich history.
Without knowing it at the time I picked this up, it was the offseason read I needed.
Halberstam argues that baseball is the last great American mythology, and I think he's right.
As Halberstam details so well in this book, that doesn't mean that baseball is without its real world problems.
Halberstam has written one of my all-time favorite books.
For a person like me, an avid reader who is often entrenched in the "real-world," this book provides what baseball does - a moment of calm and unmitigated enjoyment.
When the book is over, the escape is over, for a time, until I pick up another baseball book by David Halberstam.
This is the third book I've read by David Halberstam and I continue to deepen my respect for his talents as an author (also read: 'The Coldest Winter' and 'The Children').
I highly recommend any oil his many books."Summer of '49" is about one of the most storied Major League Baseball pennant races in history, between the Boston Red Soxes and the New York Yankees.
Halberstam's writing is superb and his love of baseball is obvious.
If you are a baseball fan or just love a good story, this one is well worth your time.
Great reading for any baseball fan!From someone who is primarily a National League fan, I found myself learning just why fans from the northeastern States feel that this IS the greatest rivalry in all of Major League Baseball.
Mr. Halberstam's writing is highly detailed, but still easy to read and understand.
I have more of his books on my Kindle wish list and I look forward to reading them.
I only wish that I had discovered his books earlier in my life for the sheer pleasure of learning what Mr. Halberstam has shared with us.Highly recommended reading for anyone interested in any or all of the subjects he has covered in his career.
As he is prone to do, Halberstam tells a great story while providing insightful profiles of all the characters.
Halberstam also provides great analysis of the history of the times (the 1940s) in the form of the relationship between the media and athletes, the development of baseball on the radio and the birth of televised baseball games.
The book is both a history lesson and a story of a great moment in sports.
This is the third sports book by Halberstam I have read (along w his book on Bill Bellichick and the 1977 Portland Trailblazers).
