https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865110.Sodome_et_Gomorrhe_I
It is as if, in the library of my mind, I absolutely need to place a suitably illustrated volume entitled, My version of Sodome et Gomorrhe beside its comrades, leaving room, of course, for my thoughts on the remaining volumes of A la Recherche du Temps Perdu.Because so many months have gone by since I’ve read the book, and I’ve read the rest of the Recherche in the meantime, I’m curious to see what stands out in my memory about this volume.
I often think in visual terms and I imagine Sodome et Gomorrhe, which is the fourth book of the seven volumes of Proust’s Recherche, as the apex of an isosceles triangle, or like the gable of the house in the foreground of the image above.
4,5... as usual!
The narrator first sees them conversing before they enter Jupiens building.
In a sense, this is Swann passing the torch of unbearable, jealous love on to Marcel, who will carry it fiercly and for a long time.
This volume also contains one of my very favorite parts of the entire In Search of Lost Time: Marcel remembering his grandmother.
As you’ll remember his grandmother passed away during The Guermantes Way, and though her death devastated his mother, Marcel himself seemed almost unaffected by it.
She comes back to him, as alive and wonderful and full of love as she was when she was alive.
Sodome et Gomorrhe by Marcel ProustAs mentioned in my previous notes, “reviews” on A La Recherche du Temps Perdu, Proust is my Favorite, Number One of All Time writer.
At the time when I had my first encounter with Sodome et Gomorrhe, I did not know Proust was gay.
My perspective on Sodome et Gomorrhe changed dramatically; in fact, I have a different view on Proust.
I remembered now that I was not keen on the subject of this novel and happy that the book is so complex and treats so many subjects in such an exquisite way.Romania gets mentioned with its queen, her pen name being Carmen Silva.
Life goes on, from Paris to Balbec, and M spends much of the book observing and theorizing about homosexuality.
As in the other volumes, some days some glide by, others drag.
But I've come to accept that.
It's as though I have a brilliant and long-winded friend who is an amusing and insightful raconteur, while at the same time obsessive, immature, and not entirely believable--at least when it comes to his own desires.
Sometimes he rambles, or whirls in circles...
How's the book?
It's him and his world, just the latest chapter.
