https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251547.The_Anarchist_Cookbook
This book is getting all sorts of bad reviews. Its got people who don't like the concept of making drugs from bananas and peanuts. But it does have some things that prove useful. most of this book is crap, but some of it has been very useful in wasting a summer day making fireworks and other various experiments.And don't be dumb enough to try to make drugs from 200 pounds of bananas. If you're dumb enough to buy 200 pounds of bananas, you're probably already on drugs.
I do not believe the bomb making tutorials are the best to be found.No what I love about this book is how blatantly useless it is, while somehow managing to be so feared and despised.
Obviously those people haven't actually looked at this book.But, it seems to my eye that that is a succinct observation about modern America.
We don't need to read a book to see if it is really the devil's best attempt to destroy humanity, we just need to believe as we're told.At least we're the home of the brave in our songs.
As the author of the original publication some 30 plus years ago, it is appropriate for me to comment.The Anarchist Cookbook was written during 1968 and part of 1969 soon after I graduated from high school.
I can say that the original Anarchist Cookbook has not been revised or updated in any way by me since it was first published.During the years that followed its publication, I went to university, married, became a father and a teacher of adolescents.
In 1976 I became a confirmed Anglican Christian and shortly thereafter I wrote to Lyle Stuart Inc. explaining that I no longer held the views that were expressed in the book and requested that The Anarchist Cookbook be taken out of print.
With books all over the house, I found the Cookbook sitting by itself on a table of knickknacks, supervised by one of the sellers.
You could get put on a federal watch list just for owning that thing".He responded with something akin to, "Yep," which carried a tone of "I'm not gonna let this book get into the hands of any impressionable youth.
'Murica's not gonna be compromised, not on my watch."And I walked away, feigning as much ambivalence as possible, all the while knowing in my heart that I was not going to let that man burn that book.
“Unity is the only way in which the people in this country can overthrow the fascists, communists, capitalists, and all the other assholes who claim running a representative government is so difficult” (id.) Uh?Begins the gun porn section with foreplay regarding hand-to-hand combats, including gems such as “a clapping motion over the victim’s ears can kill him also immediately” (79).
Duh?) By contrast, one'd think that a proper anarchist would disagree vehemently with the Constitution (NB: his statements otherwise that the only law and justice that matter are self-oriented.)Advises that “the major cause of the failure of the Minute-Men” is that “they have the weapons, but not the training or the technical know-how” (87), citing again weirdly to Nkrumah for the proposition that the guerrilla must be trained in the “justness and the reality of his cause” (id.).
I'm probably already on some government lists thanks to this book, so what's another entry. To hide the book from my parents, I ripped out the pages of 'Children's Stories of the Bible' and glued the AC in its place. I think I actually tried the nutmeg method of getting stoned when I was 13. It didn't work. A lot of the stuff in this book didn't work. Still a great read. I can picture a sweaty William Powell trading banana-skin hash to his buddy to do the illustrations. I liked the random quotes from Marx and Eugene Debs.
LAME!!! Could also be titled,"A Big Long List of Crap That You Must Be Stoned to Even Consider Trying in The First Place, Because You Will Probably Die or Cause Yourself Permanant Brain & Bodily Damage".
I can remember when we were in high school that this was something that people passed around or talked about.
Nostalgia is the biggest draw for the book, not for the information, but for a time when this was the way that information had to be distributed by rogue presses and hand drawn sketches.
It was still enough to get my son sent to the principal's office when a teacher saw it in his backpack at school, which left me bouncing back and forth between annoyed at my son and amused because the information is so useless compared to what a google or youtube search would get.
I remember my older brother telling me how hard it was to find this book.
This book is more likely to get you killed then it is to get you high or make a bomb.
I don't think any of the so called 'anarchist recipes' work in this book.
Doesn't work at all.
But like my brother said this book is just for show.
It's pretty entertaining and funny to read but if your dumb enough to actually try the stupid recipes in this book then you need some help.
Nevertheless it's a fun book to read.
IF YOU WANNA LEARN HOW TO GROW POT THEN THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU.
MOST OF THE BOOK IS COMMON KNOWLEDGE BUT IT WAS WRITTEN ALMOST 30 YEARS AGO.
SINCE THIS IS THE CASE MOST OF THE SECRET KNOWLEDGE BACK THEN HAS BECOME INTEGRATED INTO COMMON KNOWLEDGE.
THE BEGINNING IS FUN LOVING TEACHING YOU ABOUT DRUGS AND EXPEREINCES THEN IT GETS MORE INTO STRATEGIES OF ANARCHY.
TEACHES TO HOT WIRE OLD CHEVY'S STEAL THINGS, MAKE BOMBS AND SUCH.
THIS BOOK IS ILLEGAL TO OWN SO IT SAYS.
I DON'T MIND IT BUT THEIR ARE DIFFERENT LEVELS OF ANARCHY.
Hey, let's make bombs and shit! ;)
In fact, I couldn't, if I was only using information from this outdated, wildly inaccurate book.
As a kid, I ordered this from Barricade Books, which also offered Vietnam-era military training manuals and the like.
My friends and I knew immediately from the hilariously crude illustrations and rambling diatribes that the information was suspect at best.
The Poor Man's James Bond was a much more reliable book on booby traps and improvised weapons, even if it was written by a right-wing survivalist lunatic.But Cookbook is still an amusing read.
Unbeknownst to us at the time, the idea of getting high on banana peels is a hoax, and the book's author fell for it.
The philosophy weaved through the book, such as it is, was probably a pretty groovy rap for picking up girls with long hair and headbands, but I don't think it could survive the morning sun and running out of pot.The first chapter is on drugs because I mean what's the point of revolution if your mind is still in chains, right?
How did we get from stealing ham to killing infiltrators?It turns out that this book was written by a 19-year-old who basically copied and pasted a bunch of stuff from military manuals and whatever else was laying around.
I have the privilege of knowing some of them.But this book is not the way forward and it is more likely to get you blown up then to change the world.
Recalling the book now, it just seemed like a collection of random things you might hear rumors of in a school yard or maybe some modern myths if you will.
Not sure what of them actually work as I didn't read it to make bombs, but to see what the fuss was about.The sections on "phreaking" or stealing cable, phone service, free long distance, stealing from public machines...
(IE: Catnip, cough syrup, bananas...) That is all over the internet now and is truly common knowledge for anyone who would be interested in it.The rest from what I remember were makeshift bombs.

Too many recipes in this book are dangerous and/or have the possibility of failure. The author at the time was pretty much uninformed and untrained in the usage of most of these tips and tricks. For a better handbook on the subject check out "Anarchist Cookbook 2000" or "New and Improved Anarchist Cookbook," both of which are available in PDF format online and are in some ways better (more informed, more recent) and yet more dangerous.PMZ
Inaccurate recipes, even worse politics.
Teaching self proclaimed anarchists how to sabotage society, injure and kill others and wreak havoc. What can possibly go wrong?!
i just wanted a recipe for a meatball

It's interesting but dated. Technology has come a long way since the 70's. Definately has a leftist bias. Can come off as propaganda... However, damn, those recipes are interesting.I watched a documentary about William Powell, and he said he regrets writing this book. It's worth a read just to see why.Disclaimer: I'm a WRITER and read this book for research purposes only.
Shhhh.. don't tell anyone.
Oh my! Found this in my new office. Hidden Reference collection.
tidak semua dapat dicoba... tapi sangat menarik hehehhhe
A great how-to for everyone. Although, there were some chapters that made me cringe, but I can't promise I won't use any of this stuff...
Considering many of the recipes are either too old to work, dangerous to the maker or straight up lies - I'd suggest to avoid this book.
These days it brings back disturbing memories.Powell, it turns out, did have plenty to fear from “The Establishment.” His original publisher, Lyle Stuart, insisted that the naïve teenager sign over the rights to him.
Powell has tried unsuccessfully for years to take the book out of print, as he no longer endorses violence as a means to an end.
The book reminds us of the rougher aspects of the 1970s, although some of the drug suggestions are now rather humorous.I cannot endorse buying this book new, since the author receives no royalties and no longer wants the information in print.
Not what I expected. Good read and interesting, but overall a little let down.
I excitedly read this book as a teenager.
It was a book that had an air of mystery surrounding it and a lot of alleged 'powers'.
Much of the information was at hand for most people even when I had read this book.
The fear mongering surrounding it and books like this will continue until the last days human society I fear.
And the existence of such books is the apparent tool or even catalyst that some may need so as to do harm.If some one is so motivated to do great harm or criminally violate another then the existence of such a book has nothing to do with their intentions or unfortunate conduct.I personally found this book over rated but interesting.
It also teaches you methods of creating explosives and poisonous gasses.
Along with multiple weapons and other methods of killing people.I did find this book amusing to read.
I feel that if I was to try and duplicate, I would probably die.
Most of the contents of the book could get you arrested if you were to attempt to duplicate it.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is looking for an amusing read.
If they only want it to try and duplicate anything in it, I would strongly advise against it.
