https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397872.Lair
OMFG more fucking rats and this time these 2ft critters are now climbing trees and launching leapfrog style ninja attacks.
There is some pretty scary moments in the Lair, the feeling that the rats are watching from the grass, from the trees, ready to pounce and again we have our hero.
This time it's personnel, our hero lost his family in the first wave of the rat campaign and he's hurting.
Two headed rats are to be avoided at all costs, just smile and walk on by, no run on by.
This is the second in the famous Rats trilogy (in fact there is a forth called the City written 10 years after Domain but thats a different story - literally)Anyway I digress this is part of my nostalgia tour of the early books and authors I read as I was getting in to reading while at school.
Remember this was written at the end of the 70s when trust me there were enough horrors and fears with out giant flesh eating rats adding to the mix to make you retreat from the world.
But this book condensed those fears and gave them life.
Nothing quite like reading a book where the whole plot is based just outside your doorstep! Apart from that, this book blew my mind. This is the second installment of James Herberts "The Rats" based five years later, after the carnage the rats caused in London they are back.. Bigger and bolder and much more cunning than before. I Absolutely loved this book! Like most of James Herbert's book's I've read so far I couldn't put it down. Well worth the read.
The rats were fresher in THE RATS.
Personally, I enjoyed Lair a lot more than I enjoyed The Rats.Lair takes place a few years after The Rats, dropping us back into the wonderful horror of the monstrous creatures.
Whilst we do have one character from the prior book in this one, and references are made to the events of book one, it was nice to be introduced to a fresh cast.
It was only a little thing, but I do believe it played a big part in my enjoyment.Overall, I enjoyed Lair a lot more than I enjoyed The Rats.
The white rat that survived Herbert's first novel brings a whole new meaning to musophobia as it attacks humans and eats them. Really chilling and creepy novel, definitely worth reading.
The second in the Rats trilogy, this middle book takes place five years after events in the first novel. The Outbreak that plagued London was over, but the horror was about to begin again, this time in a forest preserve outside the city. Epping Forest is about to be awash in blood and torn, mutilated bodies, but the real horror is worse than imagined.James Herbert is one of the best ever, bar none, and one of my all-time favorites. While, sadly, he passed away a few years ago, his backlist is required reading for horror fiction fans.Highest of recommendations.
The rats are back and they are on top form.A very few managed to escape the ‘cleansing’ of London, and moved to Epping forest to hide. Four years have passed, they are still hiding and staying away from the humans that they fear, but they have reproduced and evolved. The question is: how long are they going to be able to resist to their craving for the human flesh?Lair was written in 1979. It is and old school, rock-solid horror book that still delivers.And I’m really not into creature feature but I make an exception for James Herbert’s rodents.
Another fine entertainment in the rodent trilogy. Actually better than its predecessor as Herbert gets his bearings aligned and full steam on so to speak. Herbert is no craftsman of metaphor; this is a straight ahead story full of suspense, romance, and most of all grue, so don't think you are going to come out of this a better person for it. This beautiful Centipede edition is rather too high class for the writing which is better housed in one of those stinky mass market paperbacks printed on cheap, soon to be yellowed, paper. Really, a ribbon book marker?
LAIR follows on from James Herbert's early bestseller THE RATS, and in some ways it is just more of the same.
That being said, personally I thought this was an even better book than THE RATS.
A few years after the earlier outbreak, a new plague of rats begins to run amok, this time in the Epping Forest.
It falls to a rodent control expert named Pender, to try and incite 'the powers that be' into taking an early and proactive action against the marauding animals.The carnage doesn't start immediately, and Herbert deliberately, and expertly allows an atmosphere of dark foreboding to build, until it explodes in a frenetic release of bloody violence!Read Lair and enjoy it, but I don't suggest reading it if you are planning to go camping in the woods, anytime soon!
Lair is about what you would expect from your average sequel.
The plot is bigger and badder, but the overall gist of the action remains the same.
There were new characters and a few allusions to old ones.
Except for a few especially intense or creative moment, I felt like I had been there and done that.
The overall quality of the writing was excellent.
Where else are you going to find a character who is a middle school gym teacher who sneaks off into the woods during lunch breaks to flash his privates at unsuspecting hikers?
Rollicking sequel to Rats. Didn't think you could make giant killer rats hunting down humans scary but boy was I wrong. Better than Rats and very exciting and terrifying
The rebel rat broods almost as much as the hero, and looks to be the leader in the third book, which I don't remember reading in the past, The Domain--so will get that one next.
The woman in this book, instead of fashion designer, is like a park ranger/ecologist, who has cloistered herself in the rat infested woods to get over falling for a married man.
If you really want to check out Herbert, I'd advice starting with his first two books--The Rats and The Fog--before this.
In the second book of this trilogy rats seem to have acquired a taste for human flesh after having fled from London and after having found the sanctuary in Epping forest.
It could have also been a good standalone novel since the writing style is slightly better than the one of The Rats and there is a lot more gore.
Rat leaders love human brains everyone!Human characters are still poorly developed so that's a minus, but, hey, at least you get a constant feeling of dread not knowing where the furry monsters would strike next.
The second book in the Rats series is just as good as the original.Moving the setting from the busy 
If you've read the first one, you will have a good idea of what to expect from this book.
The rats are just as just as vicious, clever and disgusting as ever.
The setting has changed from London to a wooded area outside of the city called Epping Forest.
The characters are new, but overall, it feels very similar to Rats.
I would recommend not reading this book directly after the first.
The ending of Lair sets up the third book in the series.
While I think I will enjoy it, I am in no hurry to read it.
The second in the Rats trilogy. This one takes place four years after the Outbreak of the first book, the setting now transferred from the squalor of urban London to the idyll of rural Epping Forest. Harris, the hero of the original story is absent from this sequel, getting only a name check. The story begins with a slow-building, hidden menace, before erupting into the familiar frenzy. If you liked The Rats, this is more of the same.
The second book in Herbert's Rats trilogy, picks up a couple of years later and has a completely different cast of characters from the first book. Some giant, mutant rats that survived the first book flee London to a nearby forest where they regain their numbers. They begin to terrorize the countryside, including a police academy that is in the vicinity. This shows Herbert's growth as a novelist. The story is more concisely told and the ending is more satisfying than the Rats.
Lair is a truly brilliant sequel to my all time fave horror book, The Rats. This time, the rats infest Epping Forest, and once again the poor humans become helpless rat meat! Even more spine-chilling and gory than the first, Lair will send the hairs on the back of your neck prickling with sheer terror. The greatest sequel to the greatest horror novel ever. Read it . . . if you dare!
Han pasado cuatro años desde la pesadilla de Londres, pero las ratas no han desaparecido del todo.
Un pequeño grupo de ratas mutantes huyó a los bosques de Epping Forest a través del alcantarillado, con lo que han acabado proliferando.
Al principio han pasado desapercibidas, pero cada vez están atacando a más animales.
El protagonista principal es Pender, especialista en desratización, que trabaja para Ratkill, la empresa que acabó con la primera invasión, y que se dedica a viajar a distintos punto del país cuando se sospecha de que haya ratas.
Cuando acude a Epping Forest, todos los indicios apuntan a la rata negra, pero los burócratas prefieren asegurarse antes de alarmar a la población cercana.
An unnecessary and unjustified sequel to a pretty shitty novel. Contains all of James Herbert's usual inputs: well-written but unstirring horror, boringly normal protagonists, gratuitous and cliched sex and the ominous promise of another one.
After really enjoying The Rats, I found Lair to be a bit of a step backwards. There was some good rat violence as you'd expect but overall this was a weaker story with weaker characters than the first one. However it does further the evil rats storyline and throws in an unexpected twist at the end which leads to the triumphant Domain.
The 2nd in the trilogy, after I'd read the 1st some 30 years ago. There is a new protagonist, and I enjoyed his view, along with a blossoming love story.This novel is set 4-5 years after the first, with the surviving mutant rodents relocating to a peaceful forest area outside London.
you will be put off rats forever well written constructed and thought provoking ,out and out simple no frills horror that will leave image sin your mind to haunt you well described
This series should be made into a movie
Thoroughly enjoyed it- classic Herbert, build up of suspense then a crescendo of gore, guts, blood and senseless killing....utter joy....can't wait to get my teeth into domain now
When the creatures are sighted in Epping Forest, ratcatcher Pender is sent to assess the situation.
Unfortunately, with conflicting witness statements, the authorities are reluctant to take his word that the woodland must be evacuated…This is book 2 of the Rats trilogy, and it’s a cracker.
Herbert ups the ante with a gripping tale of woodland folk who haven’t a clue what’s coming.
The hero this time around has his own axe to grind and as he and the army struggle to overcome the blood-thristy creatures, the plot throws bitey spanners into the works at every turn.
OMG!! I just finished #Lair by James Herbert. What a book!!! Filled with gore, and terror I was completely captivated (and scared s***less!). Not sure I am quite ready for Domain yet.
Over the years since I read this book, I've tried to put my finger on what it was, that I found so scary about the storyline.
That's what made it so frightening to me.Soon after reading this book, there was a report in our local paper of a rat that had been seen in a nearby city, which was as big as a small dog, and that compounded my fear and I still had the last in the series to read.I really recommend this book, if you want a really good scare.
You better bring a cushion to hide behind.Serina Hartwell Author of 'Hidden' & 'Trapped'(coming soon) http://figment.com/users/248791-Serin...-

