https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8439160-parva
I was curious to know what logical reasons S.L. Bhyrappa had tried to give in his book de-mythologizing the original tale in a believable way, which is quite a challenge in itself.
From there the story moves to Kunti’s point of view - how she gave birth to her sons practicing niyoga and what difficulties she faced because of that and then to Bhima his love for Draupadi and how he felt sorry for Hidimbi and how selfishly he went to invite his son Gatohkacha for the war.
Its difficult to write about each characters and their view point, their feelings, frustrations, loss everything in one single book.
And it also means chapter or lesson...Parva uses monologue as a technique for the non-mythological retelling of the Mahabharata...It is written by acclaimed Kannada author S L Byrappa .
I have read this book in two languages One in the language it was originally written Kannada and in english ...
Raghavendra Rao’s translation is not only true to the topic, but also gives complete justice to the book.( i was afraid the original essence will be lost )In Parva very character is human, and every character is a complex character feeling a gamut of emotions be it jealousy, anger, forgiveness ......
For the past year or so I have been trying to cover most of the books from http://the-mahabharata.quora.com/Note...
and while I am nearing the end of that reading list, this book stands out as the best demythologized version of the Mahabharata I have read so far.
In this book, the all too familiar epic is narrated from the point of view of many of its participants, each stripped of any possible divine connection and treated as flawed human beings.
Apart from creating extremely believable characters the author also creates a socio-cultural background to the battle and its preceding events that lends it a "aaah...this would have actually happened" that most agnostics will welcome.
Mahabharatha mythology or history....... This is not just a novel but an well researched book on the subject.. Must have won a Nobel if not written in Kannada language...
While there is debate on whether this story is mythology or an actual event, the author has done a spectacular job of writing the epic in a believable, it-could-have-actually-happened way.
The author spent decades in researching the actual customs/traditions in ancient India & has justified many actions/events outlined in the epic, that otherwise is regularly classified as fictional/godly.The epic is an important & revered book for the hindus, with many of the characters treated as demi-gods.
The author has depicted every character as humans with strengths, weaknesses & vulnerabilitiy.
Mythology rarely provides an explanation for their characters motivation or offer reasons to their actions. Parva retells Mahhabharata stripping it off its mythological elements and giving the characters humanity that can be related to. Will be reviewing in detail :)
my all time favourite book
Devdatt tried a little bit to make Mahabharata more humane and tale of people during those ancient times.
He teased me to see The Epic more as a reflection of society of ancient people and there evolution then a Mythology.
SLB takes from where Devdatt left and gives you a story with no holds barred.
SLB does a fantastic job of keeping you interested in the story which one would have heard or read soMany times.
SLB takes Dharma and interprets it with a intensity so raw that you start to understand the hypocrisy of the same.
By far, the best book I have read about Mahabharata. If you are interested in understanding how the real life would have been, instead of bollywood style two flowers touching each other, who actually would have begot whom, and more than that, what those "human beings" would have thought and done - this is the book to read.
A brilliant original take on Mahabharata stripping it completely of its divine elements and holiness of characters. A dozen point-of-views thru a lot of monologues, a no. of questions and observations that i have not found in the dozen other books on d epic that i have read.
One of the most best books on Mahabharatha fromeach characters point of viewBhyrappa is a hidden gem in regional Indian literature Happy I got to read his translation
The book showcases a different viewpoint of what happened during, before and after mahabharatha. It gives the perspective of some of the characters in the story in a way which has not been done before. It's like a good behind-the-scene view of what is usually portrayed as mahabharatha.The book has not been written well as it appears to be the direct translation from kannada, but if that bit can be ignored, the story and the information is quite captivating. The book ends very abruptly.
De-mythologized Mahabharata!!!This has got be interesting. A retelling of Mahabharata in a new format - characters reminiscing their lives, with replacement of divine and mythical events in the original with more realistic ones. Consider me intrigued.
PARVA! Well, by far my favorite Kannada novel. I wish fantasy directors like Peter Jackson take a look at this gem of a novel by S.L.B. Parva is one of the rare documentations of the epic Mahabharatha, which is logical and based on Science rather than on stories and legends. A must-read for all Kannada novel fans.
So far, Bhyrappa's best novel. A reinterpretation of Mahabharatha by revisiting those elements of the epic which seem too far fetched and away from reality. One of the best novels of Kannada literature and an indispensable part of its history.
His greatest creation. This Magnum Opus is a must read.
This book from Bhyrappa contains about the final war between Kauravas & Pandavas. This book has mainly 2 specialities. 1. Depicting the story in such way that it looks possible in the current world we are living. 2. Highlighting the war but not neglecting the back story ie he reveals (in his sense) the truth of birth of Pancha Pandavas.
மகாபாரதம நாம அனைவரும கேடட கதை தான , இநத மணணில வாழும அனைவரும ஒரு முறையாவது கேடடு இருபபாரகள , இனறு மகாபாரதம ஒரு புராண கதையாக நமககு கிடைகிறது . கடவுளகள , வரஙகள , சாபஙகள நிறைநதது இநத புராணம . கணடிபபாக காலம தோறும மகாபாரதம மாறி வநது இருககும . புது புது கிளை கதைகள இணைநது இருககும , காலததுககு ஏறற மாறறஙகள நிகழநது இருககும .மகாபாரதததின காலம எனபது இநதியா ஒரு பழஙகுடி சமூகததில இருநது மேல எழுநது ஒரு நில உடமை சமூகமாக மாறும கால கடடம . பெரும அரசரகள உருவாகும ஒரு காலததை காடடுகிறது . அதறகே உணடான அற விழிமியஙகளை பறறி ப
மகாபாரதம் நாம் அனைவரும் கேட்ட கதை தான் , இந்த மண்ணில் வாழும் அனைவரும் ஒரு முறையாவது கேட்டு இருப்பார்கள் , இன்று மகாபாரதம் ஒரு புராண கதையாக நமக்கு கிடைகிறது .
முக்கியாமான கதை மாந்தர்கள் குந்தி , பீமன் , திரௌபதி , அர்ஜுனன் , யுயதனன் , பீஷ்மர் , துரோணர் போன்றவர்களின் என்ன ஓட்டங்களால் முன்னகர்கிறது .நாவல் நாம் மரபாக அறிந்துள்ள தகவல்களை மறு அமைப்பு செய்கிறது.
இதை போல் நாம் தெரிந்த தகவல்களை மறு புரிதலுக்கு உண்டாக்கும் இந்த நாவல் .திரௌபதி எப்படி ஐந்து ஆண்களை மணந்து கொண்டால் , அவள் எப்படி அவர்களுடன் உறவு கொண்டால் போன்று விஷயங்களை புனைவின் சாத்தியங்களுடன் எழுதி உள்ளார் .
ஒரு பெரும் மழை அச்தினாவதியை அதன் அசுதங்களில் இருந்து சுத்தம் செய்கிறது .
I felt 'Palace of Illusions' did not do enough justice to her character as much as SLB did (avoid that book, not worth it).What I was expecting by the end was,I wanted the author to go more in detail about Karna and the pain he felt, there are a few chapters but they just do not do justice, he comes across as a minor character.Same goes with Duryodhan, why do you leave him?
Want to read more on him.Also, I feel some character plots and their chapters could be avoided and there was no need for it.
ಪರವ ಓದಿದ ನಂತರ ನನಗನಿಸಿದದು ಭೈರಪಪನವರು ಕೇವಲ ಒಬಬ ಲೇಖಕರಲಲ ಅವರು ಒಬಬ ದೊಡದ ಮನಃಶಾಸತರಜಞ ರೆಂದು. ಪರವವನನು ಒಂದು ಕಟಟು ಕತೆಯಲಲದೆ ನಡೆದ ಐತಿಹಾಸಿಕ ಘಟನೆಯಂಬಂತೆ ಚಿತರಿಸಿದದಾರೆ. ಮಹಭಾರತದ ಪಾತರಗಳ ಮನಸಸಿನೊಳಗೆ ಇಳಿದು ಅವರ ಭಾವನೆ, ದವಂದವತೆ ಮತತು ಅಂತಃಕರಣವನನು ಓದುಗನ ಮನಸಸಿಗೆ ಹತತಿರವಾಗಿರುವಂತೆ ವಿವರಿಸಿದದಾರೆ. ಮನುಷಯನ ಸವಭಾವವನನು ಕಾಲ ಮತತು ತಾನಿರುವ ಜಾಗದಿಂದ ಬೇರಪಡಿಸಿದರೂ ಅವನ ಮನಸಸೆಂದರೆ ಅಸಂಖಯ ಭಾವನೆ ಕಲಪನೆಗಳ ಮೂಲವೆಂದು ಒಂದೊಂದು ಪುಟವು ಹೇಳುತತಿರುವಂತೆ ಭಾಸವಾಗುತತದೆ. ಪರವದ ಎಲಲಾ ಪರಮುಖ ಪಾತರಗಳು ಅವರು ಬದಕುತತಿರುವ ರೀತಿಯೇ ಧರಮವಾದುದು ಎಂಬ ಸವಪರಶಂಸೆಯ ರಾಗವನನು ಓದುಗರಿಗೆ ಕೇಳುವಂತೆ ಭೈರ
ಪರ್ವ ಓದಿದ ನಂತರ ನನಗನಿಸಿದ್ದು ಭೈರಪ್ಪನವರು ಕೇವಲ ಒಬ್ಬ ಲೇಖಕರಲ್ಲ ಅವರು ಒಬ್ಬ ದೊಡ್ದ ಮನಃಶಾಸ್ತ್ರಜ್ಞ ರೆಂದು.
ಪರ್ವವನ್ನು ಒಂದು ಕಟ್ಟು ಕತೆಯಲ್ಲದೆ ನಡೆದ ಐತಿಹಾಸಿಕ ಘಟನೆಯಂಬಂತೆ ಚಿತ್ರಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
ಮಹಭಾರತದ ಪಾತ್ರಗಳ ಮನಸ್ಸಿನೊಳಗೆ ಇಳಿದು ಅವರ ಭಾವನೆ, ದ್ವಂದ್ವತೆ ಮತ್ತು ಅಂತಃಕರಣವನ್ನು ಓದುಗನ ಮನಸ್ಸಿಗೆ ಹತ್ತಿರವಾಗಿರುವಂತೆ ವಿವರಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
ಮನುಷ್ಯನ ಸ್ವಭಾವವನ್ನು ಕಾಲ ಮತ್ತು ತಾನಿರುವ ಜಾಗದಿಂದ ಬೇರ್ಪಡಿಸಿದರೂ ಅವನ ಮನಸ್ಸೆಂದರೆ ಅಸಂಖ್ಯ ಭಾವನೆ ಕಲ್ಪನೆಗಳ ಮೂಲವೆಂದು ಒಂದೊಂದು ಪುಟವು ಹೇಳುತ್ತಿರುವಂತೆ ಭಾಸವಾಗುತ್ತದೆ.
ಪರ್ವದ ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಪ್ರಮುಖ ಪಾತ್ರಗಳು ಅವರು ಬದಕುತ್ತಿರುವ ರೀತಿಯೇ ಧರ್ಮವಾದುದು ಎಂಬ ಸ್ವಪ್ರಶಂಸೆಯ ರಾಗವನ್ನು ಓದುಗರಿಗೆ ಕೇಳುವಂತೆ ಭೈರಪ್ಪನವರು ಸೊಗಸಾಗಿ ನುಡಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
ಭಾವನೆಗಳ ಸಂಘ್ಹರ್ಷಣೆಗಳು ಪರ್ವದ ಪ್ರಮುಕ ಚಿಹ್ನೆ.ಪಾಂಡವರ ಹುಟ್ಟಿನ ವಿಷಯದ ಗೊಂದಲದಿಂದ ಆರಂಭವಾಗುವ ಫರ್ವ.
ಎಂಬ ನೈತಿಕ ಪ್ರಶ್ನೆಗಳನ್ನು ಓದುಗನ ಮುಂದೆ ಸ್ರುಷ್ಟಿಸುತ್ತದೆ.
ಮೂಲ ಮಹಾಭಾರತ ಮನಸ್ಸಿನ ಭಾವನೆಗಳನ್ನು ತಾಕದಿರಬಹುದು ಆದರೆ ಪರ್ವ ಮನಸ್ಸಿನ ಉದ್ವೇಗವನ್ನು ಹೆಚ್ಚಿಸುತ್ತದೆ.ಪರ್ವದಲ್ಲಿ ಬಹಳ ಇಷ್ಟವಾದ ನುಡಿ 'ಹುಟ್ಟಿಗೆ ಅರ್ಥವಿಲ್ಲದಿರುವಾಗ ಸಾವು ಅನರ್ಥವಲ್ಲ'
I had read Mritunjay and Radheya before this book but parva completely changed my perspective on mah
I read the Tamil translation of this Kannada novel (பருவம). It is a very notable modern renderning of the Mahabharata. The author deconstructs the multiple layers of the story and presents it as essentially a great human drama set in the socio political, cultural landscape of ancient India..All references to supernatural elements in the story are removed. The novels narrative succeeds in beautifully portraying the inner struggles and conflicts of the various characters along with the outward tur
I read the Tamil translation of this Kannada novel (பருவம்).
The author deconstructs the multiple layers of the story and presents it as essentially a great human drama set in the socio political, cultural landscape of ancient India..All references to supernatural elements in the story are removed.
The novels narrative succeeds in beautifully portraying the inner struggles and conflicts of the various characters along with the outward turmoils and events that are unfolding..
The text gets dry and cliched at places and towards the end, it vigour somewhat diminishes (perhaps the author got fatigued in handling such a mammoth classic like Bharata till the end).
एक विलकषण अनुभव. मृतयुंजय वाचलयावर महाभारतातील इतर पातरांबददल पण वाचावसं वाटलं, तेवहाच मितराकडून परव वाचायला मिळालं. महाभारतातील डोंगराएवढी पातर, पण सरवांचे पाय मातर मातीचे हे परसतावनेतील वाकय पुसतकात पूरण सिदध झालं. परतयेकाचया मनातील परेम, दवेष, लोभ, राग वगैरे भावना खूप छान मांडलया आहेत. परतयेक पातराचं एक असतितव उभ राहिलंय, परतयेकाची चांगली-वाईट बाजू आहे. महाभारताला कोणी नायक किंवा खलनायक नाही हे पण नकळत पणे कादंबरी सांगून जाते. शाप, वरदान, चमतकार वगैरेना फाटा देताना काही परसंग वगळावे लागले तरी
एक विलक्षण अनुभव. मृत्युंजय वाचल्यावर महाभारतातील इतर पात्रांबद्दल पण वाचावसं वाटलं, तेव्हाच मित्राकडून पर्व वाचायला मिळालं. महाभारतातील डोंगराएवढी पात्र, पण सर्वांचे पाय मात्र मातीचे हे प्रस्तावनेतील वाक्य पुस्तकात पूर्ण सिद्ध झालं. प्रत्येकाच्या मनातील प्रेम, द्वेष, लोभ, राग वगैरे भावना खूप छान मांडल्या आहेत. प्रत्येक पात्राचं एक अस्तित्व उभ राहिलंय, प्रत्येकाची चांगली-वाईट बाजू आहे. महाभारताला कोणी नायक किंवा खलनायक नाही हे पण नकळत पणे कादंबरी सांगून जाते. शाप, वरदान, चमत्कार वगैरेना फाटा देताना काही प्रसंग वगळावे लागले तरीही तर्कशुद्धपणे मांडलेले बहुतेक प्रसंग मनाला सहज पटतात. एका महान कलाकृतीवरून निर्माण झालेला एक महान अविष्कार 'पर्व' .
A brilliant retelling of the Mahabharata as an ancient Indian political battle with morally grey actors. Bhyrappa clearly did a lot of research and it shows in how geography and history combine to give plausible political tensions (like the Panchala-Kuru divide). I liked that everything had a rational explanation and that the plot was devoid of divinity. I would rate it 4.5 stars, one less for what I felt was the treatment of Karna as a minor character, and, what I felt was, the lazy treatment of Gandhari's character (especially towards the end).
There is no doubt that the story telling of SLB is awesome. I really like his books, Gruhabhanga, Vamshavruksha. But in "parva", in effort of de-mythologizing mahabharatha, he has twisted its story itself. I do not recommend the book for those who wants to know mahabaharata and get some good from it. I should say that ,  "Parva" is not the mahabaratha story , rather its just another social novel of SLB. I would recommend the books by Devudu and K.S. Narayanacharya to actually know about the epic and get something good from it.
well.I am fortunate to read original Kannada version and this was my first bhyrappa novel!. oh. what an experience..its most humanized mythological masterpiece I have ever read..I liked self reflecting monologues that each character engages in.be it bheema,Arjuna or draupadi..its written in most innovative technique known in Kannada lit..
Fantastic rendering of the Great Epic as it might have happened, without the mythology or divine interventions. This book presents the dilemma faced by individual characters of the epic, and why they did what they did. Highly recommended.
Superb work...a fresh way of looking at the characters of Mahabharata...really makes you feel pity for Draupadi and Kunti...questions arise on the way we respect Yudhisthira and Arjuna...fantastic perspective...
ಅತತಯುತತಮವಾದ ಕಾದಂಬರಿ.ಮಹಾಭಾರತವನನು ತರಕದ ಮೂಲಕ ಮತತು ಅಂದಿನ ಕಾಲದ ಸಥಿತಿ-ಗತಿಗಳನನು ತುಂಬಾ ಸೊಗಸಾಗಿ ಚಿತರಿಸಿದದಾರೆ.
ಅತ್ತ್ಯುತ್ತಮವಾದ ಕಾದಂಬರಿ.ಮಹಾಭಾರತವನ್ನು ತರ್ಕದ ಮೂಲಕ ಮತ್ತು ಅಂದಿನ ಕಾಲದ ಸ್ಥಿತಿ-ಗತಿಗಳನ್ನು ತುಂಬಾ ಸೊಗಸಾಗಿ ಚಿತ್ರಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
The best I ever read in Kannada..
