https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844940.The_Truth_About_Stacey
stacey's all growed up!!but she's still incredibly fashionable!
I looked forward to Book Club day (Ashton Scholastic) with anticipation and my $5.95 in an envelope.
I was in year 5 at public school, the books came out monthly and I discovered them when no.
I didn't collect all of the off-shoot series, there were too many, but my oldest daughter decided to collect the Little Sister ones, but didn't complete it as she was again, too old.
My girls now read a little bit, but they are more interested in their iPhones and communication that way, and instant gratification.
the way these books were written, i got the idea that diabetes was an STI when i was a kid (cut me some slack, i was seven years old, it was 1986, & we were surrounded by safer sex lectures & STI information everywhere we went, but it was really vague information that only served to make us all completely confused & freaked out).
but then i realized that the way diabetes is written in these books is really weird.this is the first confession that stacey has to give herself daily insulin shots.
they snake a lot of BSC's business before the girls figure out that the agency's sitters are kind of shitty & the charges don't like them.
Re-read of 2018 Stacey was the "big city" gal of the Babysitters Club and I loved her stories so much!
It is now November and Stacey is loving her time with the Baby-Sitters Club.
It was also the great idea introduced in this book that the BSC would adopt the Kid-Kit. I must confess that I did this too when I was babysitting.
Total fangirl, I know!Two things that I haven't spoken about in my other re-reads is the kids I remember so well and all the literary references.
Second, the girls all are huge readers and so many children's books tag along during their babysitting time.
BSC was instrumental in bringing to the forefront those hard-hitting issues weighing on every upper-middle class goody-two-shoe New England girl. Here, we learn about the horrible secret Stacey (the pretty/popular girl) has been hiding. I won't spill the beans, but she can't eat sugar!! I know, I almost fainted, too. But with the BSC, you know we'll all make it through!
Great book in a series of great books. Much more female empowered than the last one which I had to rant about so that's awesome.
The truth about Stacey is she has diabetes! and a severe case, too, just to make things worse! I like this book because I liked learning about diabetes and how hard it is for Stacey. This book was really good! five stars!
And what, might you ask, is the truth about Stacey? Well, I wouldn't want to give it away...but...
Stacey is threatened by a rival baby-sitting club and a new diabetes doctor.There are two main conflicts in this book.
Kids like the kits (will be referenced in pretty much every BSC book from now on), but this word-of-mouth isn’t enough for a serious advantage.Through their charges, the Baby-sitters begin to hear bad reports about the BSA sitters.
There’s plenty of baby-sitting, but because it all supports the BSC/BSA A-plot, it never feels like doing time.The two plotlines are never actively compared, and it wasn’t until I was writing this review (after many years and many readings) that I consciously realized that they have the same moral: in medical care, as in child care, it’s better to go with professionals you trust rather than gamble on something unproven.
Uh Oh! Looks like there is new competition in Stoney Brook! What happens when a new babysitter club forms? AND all these babysitters are older. The girls start losing jobs and don’t know what to do. Can they regain control and beat out this new competition? On a side note: I loved how much information is shared about diabetes in the book.
3 StarsI think my favorite part of this story was the BSC dealing with the Baby Sitters Agency. I appreciated how Stacey's parents kept searching for something better to deal with her diabetes, but now reading it as an adult I can't help thinking how much money that probably cost :)
The binge continues...
True story- this was the first BSC book I ever read.
The reading level is a bit higher than future books, meaning that either the target audience was a bit higher than the actual audience, or that, sadly, it needed to be dumbed down a bit to be more accessible.
The other plot (neither is really a B-plot; the book doesn't follow the A-B formula of future books) revolves around the BSC's handling of a competing group, the Baby-Sitters Agency.
I'm finding that as I reread the books, I'm either loving or hating each one that I read.
My 7 year old daughter recommended this book to me--"mom, it's really good, you've gotta read it"--so I did. One of the joys of sharing books w/ your children--you get to talk about characters/situations together and they can become part of your family's "culture". (Although I'm not sure "Babysitter's Club" books will become part of our family culture--I was thinking more about Chronicles of Narnia, or Winnie the Pooh or James and the Giant Peach)
This book is definitely nostalgic for me, but although I enjoyed it as a kid, reading it now makes me wonder what ever possessed me to like reading this series. Still, despite its choppy sentences and limited vocabulary, this isn't a bad book for elementary school children.
Great! Not only did it...Great not only did it educated me about diabetes, but it Was a epic book!
Im having so much fun with these!!!
***Rated by my daughter***
Poor Stacey! I wouldn't like to have diabetes. But luckily she has her friends to help her.
So amazing
I really liked this book because it is exciting, but it is the third book there are 2 more before this that you should read before you read this book. Also the characters are cute and funny.
Three books in, you already have a sense of which character you identify with most, and as a lifelong Stacey McGill, I eagerly awaited her first turn as narrator.The hand-painted original cover art depicts a nearly 30-year-old Stacey in a candy shop, looking forlornly diabetic.
Really this book is about the heinous bitches at the Baby-sitters Agency who not only steal the BSC's idea and their clients, they go after their reputation as well.
It is thrilling to watch those double crossing copycats go up in a puff of illicit cigarette smoke.Now I just can't wait for the Logan era to begin in just a few short books.
I gave this book a 4/5 because I really enjoyed this book because it was kind of similar to smile and sisters.
I would recommend this book to my friends because it is about friendship and sticking together.
This book has lots of things that you could actually do in real life like begin a job with your friends to win money like the girls in the book did , they started a baby sitters club and they took care of kids.
Also in the book when you are reading there is a conflict with another group of baby sitters , the baby sitters agency.
Stacey has diabetes. No one seems to understand her condition, not even her parents. Stacey is scared to tell her Babysitters Club friends, afraid they won't understand either. This novel really tests true friendship. I loved this novel of the series.
I first read this when I was in Grade 2 or 3, and it introduced me to diabetes and New York City ❤I loved the BSC growing up, and have decided to re-read (or read for the first time) some of the books in the series. Which of the members are you? :)
I first read this when I was in Grade 2 or 3, and it introduced me to diabetes and New York City ❤️I loved the BSC growing up, and have decided to re-read (or read for the first time) some of the books in the series. Which of the members are you? :)
I loved this series when I was younger. They are the books for me, that started it all!
The babysitters face a huge challenge when a competing babysitting agency is set up and holds older teens that can be out longer.
But Stacey will not let the one good thing she found in Stoneybrook be torn apart so her and Kristy were set on doing anything they can to draw back their clients.
As stacey get the odd work with clients that use her regularly she finds the children angry and miserable, thinking she was just like their older newer babysitters.
Another good read, though I must admit that there are so many grammatical errors in these books that do totally annoy me, but the story is what keeps me interested.
The BSC books, especially the very early ones, treated diabetes like it was some untreatable death curse.
Including a fad doctor someone saw on television once and is like one step away from being a faith healer.Awesome.While Stacey is fighting the good fight, the rest of the club is fighting a baby-sitting agency that is threatening to put them out of business.
The end would have been way more delightful if Kristy had instead had to fist fight Liz Lewis in a winner takes all baby-sitting knock down drag out.That is the kind of club I'd sign up for right now, and I'm 32 years old.
I borrowed this book from one of my best friends (whose father had diabetes), probably in the third grade.Things I remember from reading this as a kid:Not much, surprisingly, considering it's referenced so much for the rest of the series, although I do remember being impressed that the BSC was willing to have a showdown with older girls at school (about knowing their baby sitting charges of all things).
I read The Baby Sitters Remember over and over, partly because I liked the story of how Stacey first got diagnosed with diabetes, the bones of which are summarized in chapter two of The Truth About Stacey.Things I've considered since reading this as an adult:Oh boy, where to start?
The Babysitters Club The Truth About Stacey by Ann M.
Martin, is a story of four friends who created a babysitting club together to help parents out.
The names of the four friends are Kristy Thomas, Claudia Kishi, Mary Anne Spier, and Stacey McGill.
This story is told in Stacey’s point of view and set in Stoneybrook, Connecticut.
I like this book and would recommend it to others because it is about four friends how the overcome obstacles in life together, They are always working together so people can learn about teamwork, and because they don’t try to hide the fact that sometimes life isn’t fair.
