https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16168254-the-burrow
كيف يمكن لكافكا ان يتمتع بالعزلة دون أن يزعجه أحد؟أن يختبئ عن العالم الشريريبني عالمه الصغير ويخزن مؤنته الصغيرة فلا يدري أحد عنه شيئاأن يتجنب هذا العالم بكل ما أوتي من قوة وموهبة فنية تحاول بناء منزلا خرافيا لا يستطيع أحد رؤيته فيه:::::::::::::::"أجمل ما في جحري هو الصمت"حلم كافكا "بورشته المثالية المعزولة عن العالم"سرداب محكم الغلقيُجلب له طعامه ويوضع خلف أبعد بابفلا يعوقه عن إبداعه أي احتكاك بالبشرهدوءسكون تام:::::::::::::::لكن هناك أيضا أعداء في حشايا الأرض لم أرهم مطلقالكنهم أسطوريون وأنا أ
كيف يمكن لكافكا ان يتمتع بالعزلة دون أن يزعجه أحد؟أن يختبئ عن العالم الشرير‏يبني عالمه الصغير ويخزن 
A muddy hole in the ground becomes a great castle30 June 2014 The more of Kafka's stories that I read the stranger they seem to become. Well, it is not that the next one is stranger than the last, but rather that are all on the same level of strangeness. I guess that is what comes from somebody who has spent a bulk of his life working in the 19th Century version of Workcover. Hey, I work for an insurance company basically doing what Kafka did and, well, to be honest with you, it is driving me nu
A muddy hole in the ground becomes a great castle30 June 2014	The more of Kafka's stories that I read the stranger they seem to become.
This is another thing that I love about Kafka, and that is that the way he uses language means that what he is describing could be anything.
Here we have a burrowing mammal who is describing what is in effect a muddy hole in the ground as if it were some exotic fortress and some fantastic palace.
Yet, in another way it is an exotic fortress and a fantastic palace because that is how the owner sees the burrow.
O covil é bastante simples por fora, mas no interior esconde um labirinto de corredores, diferentes câmaras e uma divisão que é o forte.O animal vê o abrigo como uma segurança que nunca o mantém totalmente seguro do mundo exterior.
Da mesma forma, se nos excluirmos do mundo e nos isolarmos na nossa mente, não iremos de encontro à preocupação excessiva com o que se passa no mundo onde não estamos e à falha em compreender o que está acontecer e porque razão acontece?Por muito que o pequeno animal tente viver apenas no seu covil, o seu mundo está dependente do mundo exterior para obter comida e ar.
The story ends with the creature convinced a giant predator is closing in on him and his home, and his extreme anxiety about such an attack.I’ve heard Kafka was a humongous influence on later 20th century authors, and I can really see that here.
This is both a simple fact (void of noise the mind hallucinates) but also slightly tragic given what we know about the author.The story reflects issues Kafka experienced all his life, and so have I.
I think it’s fitting to end on such an arbitrary note, for we know there is no predator, indeed there never was.
دائما الإنسان في مواجهة الآخر عند كافكا..و دائما كل ما يحيط بالإنسان هو بمثابة خطر عليه مهما كان هذا الشئ أو الشخص..ماذا يفعل الإنسان عندما يشعر بهذا التهديد الدائم من الآخرين؟ ماذا يفعل الإنسان عندما يشعر أنه خائف من التعامل مع كل شئ؟ أو بالأحرى غير قادر مع التعامل مع أي شئ؟الحل بسيط..
و لكنه في أثناء وجوده مع الناس فإنه لن يستطيع أبدا أن يبني حياته كما ينبغي..
أو هو الشعور الإنساني بشكل أدق؟!البطل يبني حياته كما يحب..
فهو لا يستطيع أن يعزل نفسه كليا و يبني حياته حسبما يريد..
إنك لا تدرك أبعاد هذا الخطر.
يا إلهي ما هذا الكافكا!!!مبدع مدهش كئيب سوداوي عبقري،، كوكتيل مرعب لذيذ كل كلمة لها وقع خاص في النفس،،،أنشأ له عالماً خاصاً بعيداً عن كل متاهات حيواتنا،، لعيش بمفرده داخل جحره الخاص لينعم بصمته لوحده،، لكنه يبقى يعيش في حالة من التقرب والشك لوجود كائنات وهمية تتربص به وتحاول اختراق عالمه،،،مبدع كافكا مبدع بكل ما يكتب
Eventually, towards the middle of the story, it starts hearing a sound in its burrow that it is not able to detect the source of -- which can be read as its complete loss of its ego barrier and consequently, loss of its ability to distinguish between outside and inside input.This bodiless sound is a perfect example of the uncanny; First, the creature is doomed to stay unfamiliar with it because it is not able to find a body that the sound belongs to, which positions the sound in an ambiguous place between materiality and immateriality; Second, because it is a sensory input that seems to the creature to be from the outside but is actually is an externalization of its own fears that it has been desperately trying to repress; And third, it is literally un-heim-lich in the sense that it, according to the creature, does not belong in its house and is very unwelcome.The creature itself is also utterly unfamiliar in its defiance of any kind of human-animal separation, its voluntary seclusion from society, and its corporeal ambiguity.
Primeiro temos "O Processo", claro, mas neste livro encontramos uma condenação à morte, sem julgamento, por um método impressionante (por um lado, o triste e torturado destino do condenado, por outro, a ideia de escrever a norma desobedecida no corpo do infractor não deixa de ter o seu quê de salomónico); um personagem que se sente perseguido por umas bolas (mais do que perseguido, a palavra usada no conto é julgamento); outro conto em que temos o julgamento do filho pelo pai...
Diferentes tipos de julgamento, ora a personagem se sente julgada pelos outros, ora os outros realmente julgam a personagem.O primeiro destes contos, que dá nome ao livro, não tem fim.
من الجميل أن يكون للإنسان عرينه الخاص به وحده الذي يلجأ إليه كلما شاء..عرينه الذي أعده بنفسه وجهزه بكل ما يحتاج إليه وما قد يحتاج إليه أيضا حتي لا يصطدم بالعالم الخارجي..ولكن هل يستطيع أحد منا الصمود وحيدا في هذا العرين دون الحاجة إلي الآخرين!!
أنا شخصيا أشك في هذا، فمهما صمد الإنسان وقاوم احتياجه للآخر فلابد له وأن يسقط في وقت ما..البطل في الرواية لم يكن إنسان بل حيوان، فهل كان كافكا يقصد بذلك أن الحيوان هو الأقدر من الإنسان علي بناء العرين والاختباء به هروبا من العالم الخارجي!!
هل هذا اعتراف من كافكا بأن الإنسان لا يستطيع الصمود طويلا أمام مواجهة الآخر مهما كانت مقاومته!!
Este livro inacabado de Kakfa é uma narrativa sobre um animal (deve ser um animal) que vive numa toca.O que surpreende é a forma como a vida monótona deste "bicho" é contada e aí se encontra talvez uma metáfora da condição humana.
Os sentimentos e os pensamentos do bicho são humanos e isso aflige uma pessoa porque se põe (mais uma vez) a pensar no sentido da vida.
Este livro tem a mesma temática da Metamorfose e é igualmente claustrofóbico e penoso.
Na Metamorfose sabemos que o bicho foi uma pessoa e tem um nome, aqui não.
I read it translated by Willa and Edwin Muir.The final one i read in Kafka's complete stories collection, and my opinion now is that Kafka importance as a modern literature pioneer and as an artist is achieved only by the trail and the metamorphosis. Other aspect of his personality and writing could be achieved by his "articles" no need for all these stories which i read most of them as a literature articles where the idea and symbols are more important than the art of writing itself which he master in the mentioned two works.
This long short story/novella is, IMHO, the greatest of Kafka's works. Rich, strange, funny, poignant, terrifying. Bonus fun fact: Ian McEwan used a quote from this story as an epigraph to his (outstanding) novel 'The Innocent'.
This book is so special and it is written from an animal which seems to be a mole's perspective. The animal is working so hard to build its burrow and trying hard to safeguard it. It's peculiar, strange and cute.
A weirdly relatable story that makes you feel kinda insane while reading it.
Probably my favorite short story by Kafka, and one of the best ever written.
Uma luta desmesurada pelo pilar da nossa existência. I thank you for this one, Kafka.AMAZING.
The interesting thing becomes clear right from the outset; as with some other Kafka stories, there is effectively only one character and that character is addressing an audience; in this instance the character is some form of burrowing creature.
. .' Surely there are many who like this animal's 'voice' a lot?* Kafka's The Burrow Left Unfinished.
Ili uopće isključim neke putove iz gomilanja zaliha, u svrhu zavaravanja, ili izaberem sasvim skokovito samo mali broj trgova, već prema njihovu položaju prema glavnom izlazu..."Koliko su ove rečenice stilogene, intencionalne, a koliko su izraz nedovršenosti ove kratke priče, vrijedi i za roman "Dvorac" koji je također nedovršen, ne znam.
Rekao bih prije da su odraz nedovršenosti, odnosno neuređenosti teksta, jer u brojnim drugim tekstovima se ne javljaju u tako dugolikom i nespretnom obliku.Homodijegetski pripovjedač se nazire iz ovog citata te on iznosi cjelokupnu priču iz prvog lica.
Prevoditelj Matetić za ovu priču ističe da je neprijateljska životinja, neprijateljska glavnom liku životinji, metafora za kašalj jer dok je pisao ovo štivo Kafka je bio obolio od tuberkuloze.
I will admit, I had not read any Franz Kafka before starting on The Burrow and so it became my first introduction to the author.
The Burrow is a collection of short stories and flash fiction written by Kafka, but not published during his lifetime.
While Kafka’s creativity comes across on all the pages, I just found his stories very dull, coming across more as ramblings than actual tales.
It is only a short book, yet I ended up skimming some pages just to get through them.
There were a couple of interesting tales in the book but, on the whole, Kafka is not an author for me.
Kafka at its best.
Analytical, thorough, going back and forth to find the best way to resolve his deepest fears and worries.
I read that this book is mainly about his work.
I have to admit though that while I was reading it, I had the impression that describes mostly our lives.
We build our own house and we build it in that way to protect it from any danger around us.
The whistle or the blow that Kafka mentions is the constant fear, in my opinion, that something is wrong in ourselves and we constantly fight against it.
Nice read!
One of Kafka's greatest short stories. The book is about a mole-like created that spent all its life building an extremely elaborate burrow to face all sorts of dangers, while not really ready for any. The syntax of this translation is very simple, but the single strain of consciousnesses of the mole-like creature is often hard to follow. Naturally, because this is Kafka, there are a lot of paradoxes and incongruities. Perhaps other translations would be better. Nevertheless, a must read.
I enjoyed this at the beginning, but my goodness did it drag on and on repetitively. I don't think Kafka is my cup of tea at all judging by the short stories I've read so far.
Leider nur ein Fragment, aber mit unglaublicher Präsens geschrieben.
Kafka has a style of his own....very different, very good.
Well, again, the thoughts of a mole-like creature, on the creation and upkeep of his "Castle Keep," his labyrinthian home. Kafka, oh, Kafka!
– The Burrow “There I sleep the sweet sleep of tranquility, of satisfied desire, of achieved ambition; for I possess a house.
– The BurrowThe Burrow is an unfinished short story written by Kafka.
As in many of Kafka short stories he writes this too from the within the mind of the protagonist and his introspective and through whose eyes and words we understand the maze of the burrow is the author himself (Kafka).
I don’t understand Kafka’s love for isolation from the rest of the world as I have read in his diaries and most of his work.
The Burrow was the first book I read for Kafka in 1996 when I was studying architecture.
It was used as a theoretical base to start a research and build an architectural concept.
I read the book with an architect's mind, someone who tried to find a spatial term and meaning to interpret into art/architectural drawings.
I started drawing a 2D of the experience.
Now, after all these years I still feel the "burrow creature" experience- it was so heavy.
The read is highly recommended for those who question existence and reason.
In dieser Erzählung geht es darum, was Isolierung über einen längeren Zeitraum mit einem machen kann.
Ich sehe sie fast als ein Plädoyer dafür, dass man hie und da — selbst wenn man, wie der Maulwurf selbst, extrem introvertiert ist — Kontakt zu anderen Menschen aufnehmen muss.
Wenn man dies nicht tut, läuft man Gefahr, ungebremst sich selbst überlassen zu sein.
Der Psyche sind dann nämlich keine Grenzen mehr gesetzt.
So sind die merkwürdigen Gedankengänge und obsessiven Handlungen des Maulwurfes zu erklären.
Da er keinen regulären Kontakt zu anderen Tieren hat, hat er keinen Maßstab der Normalität, an dem er seine eigene Befindlichkeit messen kann.
En väldigt psykologisk novell, och högst allegorisk. Kanske den mest svårlästa texten jag läst, tror jag. Kändes som att en fjärdedel av texten var kommatecken och tankstreck... Men det bidrar mycket bra till att gestalta berättarens intensiva karaktär.Historiens tema var väldigt intressant och känns tidlöst, i likhet med Kafkas övriga grejer jag läst.En djupare tolkning vet jag inte om jag vågar mig på. Det får jag nog i så fall återkomma med.
Infuriating! One of the most tedious stories I've ever read. But it made me feel (annoyance) in such a deep way--which I respect.
