https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021665-moab-is-my-washpot
In short then, in the East they like to dance, in the West we like to get the sex over as quick as we can so we can all head down to the pub to tell our mates.In a review of another of Fry’s books I wrote at the start of the week and before I had started reading this one I said, “The thing I like most about Fry’s writing is that it is disarmingly honest.” Now, you would have thought I would have been primed for a good dose of honesty here – this being his autobiography.
I am not EnglishI am not JewishI am not GayI am not MaleI did not go through an English public school system or prison.I understood and related to every single beautiful syllable of this beautiful, beautiful memoir.
Stephen Fry's first autobiography was an absolute pleasure from start to finish.
He is a true master of words.
This 'celebrity tell all' is heavy and pungent with words.
Nice sweaty words filled with flavour and colour.
It is everything a good/great memoir should be, open, indulgent, philosophical, passionate, truthful, extravagant, confessional, with a hint of inaccuracy that only personal memory can provide.

He is my inspiration and my hero, I love his attitude to life, his sense of humour and unflinching ability to stand up and speak out for what he believes in.He here tells a brutally honest account of his growing up and how he first came to realise that he was gay.
He tells of his troubled mind and how it led him to spend time in prison prior to completing his education at Cambridge, he also speaks of his first love and questions his own thoughts and feelings.
Like a lot of people, I had got used to Stephen Fry the "national treasure" and I looked forward to understanding and appreciating a little more of this enigma.
This in itself is not a reason to dislike a book although in the case of an autobiography it doesn't help.Clearly you should judge his character for yourself; his use (and abuse) of privilege, his dishonesty (not just in terms of thieving), his problems with bipolar disorder and his own achievements in TV and other areas are all things that are matters of personal opinion.
As you'd expect from Mr. Fry, this memoir is well-written, witty, charming and brutally honest. Recommended to anyone who is a fan of his work.
Reading this book was much like listening to an interesting but self-important guest at a dinner party, who buttonholes you at the hors d'oeuvres and talks to you all night on a wide range of subjects.
Still, I listened to the audiobook version read by Fry himself, and most of the weaknesses of this book are glossed over or forgotten under his skilled performance.
It is strange to hear recounted in the same voice used for Harry and Ron and Dumbledore, the stories of the darkside of boarding school - beatings, bullying, stealing, rape by older boys in the bathrooms, all given in a light and witty tone.) (hide spoiler)]
Im Zentrum seiner Erinnerungen an seine 20 ersten Lebensjahre steht jedoch die Identitätsfindung – er erzählt, wie er sich zum ersten Mal verliebte – dass er schwul ist, hatte er zu diesem Zeitpunkt bereits realisiert.
Gleichzeitig zeigt sich jedoch die verletzliche und die depressive Seite seines Gemüts.Stephen Fry berichtet außerdem völlig offen von seiner Delinquentenzeit – nachdem er von zwei Internaten geflogen war, wurde er, bereits geprägt durch seine Bipolarität, straffällig und verbrachte eine Zeit in einem Gefängnis, bevor er sein Abitur mit fulminantem Ergebnis wiederholte und in Cambridge erfolgreich Englisch studierte.Manche Referenzen sind für deutsche Leser nicht einfach zu verstehen, da sie sich auf britische Persönlichkeiten beziehen, die dem deutschen Publikum nicht unbedingt bekannt sind.Frys Buch ist eine lohnende, sympathische Lektüre, wenn man sich nicht vor den schwierigen Passagen und philosophischen Konzepten fürchtet.
Ah well, you can't get everything in life, and I would settle for a conversation with him.After hearing Fry read this book, his own autobiography covering the first 20 years or so of his life, I feel like I've had that conversation.
I feel like I know him, like he's a favorite uncle whose stories I love to hear over and over again.And what stories!
To hear Fry tell it, he was a hellion of the highest order when he was a boy; stealing, lying, and falling in love with beautiful boys.
I've adored him since he was Jeeves to Hugh Laurie's Wooster.
Of course, his early life was full of much more interesting things--private English schools in the 1970s (a couple of which he was asked to leave), a suicide attempt, early explorations of his homosexuality, earnest struggles to find just where his genius might lie.
I was a tiny bit anguished, though, to realize that this memoir only went through his unlikely acceptance to Cambridge, and then stops.
Cambridge is where he did two things I've always been fascinated by: kicked ass on University Challenge, and was best pals with Hugh Laurie and Emma Thompson.
I really, really hope he writes another memoir.
As it concerned the first twenty years of Fry's life too, it did focus on the period in autobiographies which I often most appreciate - there is often a pleasure in reading about famous folks' childhoods which lessens when they get on to talking about their professional/adult lives and it gets a bit name-droppy.
Fry also talks at length about his sexuality, more in terms of his discovery of love as opposed to his discovery of sex, and this was insightful and thought-provoking too.
It will take those expectations, multiply them with a factor of 10 or so, take you through 60s England, through the land of schoolboy mischief and lies and heartbreak, show you kindness and compassion along the way, go off on tangents about music and madness and philosophy,and leave you with mad props and respect and love for one Mr. Fry.For that is the heart of it, of this book and of the writing and all that contained therein: Stephen Fry. Incredibly funny, witty, kind, compassionate, brutally honest and very, very clever.
Brilliant stuff!Stephen has such a command of language and the written word that I felt his pains and triumphs.
His love of words.
Strengthening my own love of language.Unlike others, I knew a few things going in so I didn't find a lot of what he relayed quite so shocking.
What I did find surprising is just how sincere he is over the pain some of his misadventures had caused others.
Stephen faces his head on and I found that profoundly heartening.
I am absurdly glad that I already have The Fry Chronicles so that I don't have to wait to continue Stephen's memoirs.
[Quick and short review before I re-read and re-review at a later date:Ahh Frymo how I do indeed love you, though I should probably not call you Frymo. In any case, his biographies are some of the best out there. There's a lot to tell, because he was a wee little shit back in the day and it's important to know this because look where he is now. I feel this might have been, like his other one, full of tangents but that's half the fun, yes?]
Well, Stephen Fry doesn’t have to.Fry’s autobiography, intriguingly entitled Moab is my Washpot, tells of how he managed to live through beatings, expulsion, imprisonment, probation and suicide attempts – all before he was eighteen!
It explains how and why he turned eighteen (came of age) in a rotten diner, many thousands of miles away from his family.But despite his criminal activities, Fry emerged a year or so later to be accepted into Cambridge University.Before you read this you have to know that you will never read another autobiography the same way, if ever.
I love Stephen Fry. No matter what one may think of him (and I personally think he's brilliant), the man's command of the English language is wonderful, and he uses it to his full advantage in this memoir of his childhood years.
This book reminded me an awful lot of Roald Dahl's Boy: Tales of Childhood, in both its eloquence and its quintessential Englishness, with both men writing in such a way that you feel like you're truly there, experiencing the depicted events as they occur.
Overall, a great book about the youth of an extraordinary man, and an excellent precursor to The Fry Chronicles.
In the introduction of his second book, he writes:"If a thing can be said in ten words, I may be relied upon to take a hundred to say it.
I ought to apologize for that.
After all, as you will already have noticed, I am the kind of person who writes things like "I shall append a superscribed obelus, thus".
If my manner of writing is a self-indulgence that has you grinding your teeth then I am sorry, but I am too old a dog to be taught to bark new tunes."Something about this actually makes me angry.
I seem to forget over and over again that people are sometimes very bad at writing their own memoirs.
I enjoyed reading about his past and he was very open about everything which is a quality I like in people.
His memory is amazing, I don't understand how some people can remember such details from such a young age.
I didn't like how his train of thought got caught off constantly and he went into lengthy sidetracks about things that in themselves were interesting but not in a memoir.
I adore Stephen Fry, ever since I discovered the joy that is QI, and mainlined like 8 seasons in 2 weeks. Ahem. Unfortunately for me, at least, his trademark verbosity is better suited to the audio/visual medium than the written word - while he is very expressive, it can get a little much to try and digest. However, the book still gives great insight into his humungous genius mind, and it was fairly entertaining/shocking to read about his various self-destrutive exploits as a youth and the rather unique nature of his experiences at boarding school.
Lookit, I'll call it quits around page 300. A big disappointment from a man that I hold a passionate and undying love for. It just never caught me as it was a dry and uneventful retelling of what might be called a remarkable youth. I think it is proof that Fry's spirit is best shown by his actual presence and voice rather than words on a page. Really he is to be experienced rather than studied.
An insight into Stephen Fry's childhood, enjoyed his comments on himself as a teenager. Not an easy childhood, but not because of his parents or family but seemingly because of things he did, you'll just have to read it.
Against all better judgment, I rather fell in love with him.This should be honestly described as a partial-autobiography, since it only takes the famous British comic actor from birth to about the age of twenty.
Much better, from my point of view, than the fictionalized version of his early life offered in “The Liar,” “Moab is my Washpot” is a wry confessional in which the author admits freely what a twat he is while at the same time making the reader (at least this one) want to hold him tightly and promise that everything will turn out all right.
And then for me -- well he's my decade, a couple of years younger than me -- and so many of his references were my references, his life is my life.I even know a bit about the sort of background he thrived in, the whole public school thing, because although I didn't go to one, I did grow up in a private primary school that prepared wee boys for the Common Entrance exam.
And then so difficult, if you're Stephen Fry, not to.He talks about how much he still hates not being able to sing, because it means not being able to join in.
Perhaps owing to the TV show Bones (which I have not seen), you're maybe a little more likely to have heard of him in America than a few years ago; you probably have heard of his long-time comedic partner Hugh Laurie, now better known as Gregory House, MD.
He and Hugh Laurie also played, respectively, Jeeves and Wooster, and Stephen was the titular Oscar in "Wilde." Oh yes, this is supposed to be a book review - Well, turns out Stephen had a semi-rebellious childhood and adolescence, with a penchant for stealing that ultimately earned him prison time; he is known for saying (not frivolously) that boarding school was the best preparation for prison as one could expect.
I always liked Stephen Fry. After ”Moab is my washpot” I like him even more.I like the way he talks about himself.
This seeking of challenge and craving for attention has finally led him to a situation that could have costed him everything.
Fortunately it didn't, and apparently even taught the unruly youth a lesson, or perhaps simply gave him that portion of attention that was needed to be able to turn everything around.It is a very personal account of growing up, but it is written by Stephen Fry, so as I felt my heart go out to him, I couldn't ignore the possibility that maybe I am being manipulated.
I loved reading every page of it…I received this book as one of my Christmas present from my husband.
Stephen Fry is the quiz master in this program and they talk about some very interesting topics.
This program clearly gives us an idea how clever and witty the guy is…The more I watched the show the more I became interested in him as person….When my husband gave this autobiography to me as a present, it was spot on!Stephen Fry’s writing style is magical.
I wouldn't say over my head because I'm sure I have the capacity to understand what the devil "Cambridge Blue" means and how exactly the British school system is structured, but having very rarely come into contact with it before, I have to say it's just beyond me.
Fry's rambling memoir also devolves into long non-chronological rants upon such things as Authors he has Loved (most of which I'd never heard of) and How Music Feels, which, as even he acknowledges, is impossible to put to paper.
He ends things just after having "sat his Cambridge exams" (whatever that means) and going to apply to be a schoolmaster.
In which Stephen Fry gives a frank and funny recounting of the first twenty years of his life.
Dude’s got balls, man: I could never be this honest about myself or my life.
Everything he says about not fitting in just makes me ache, especially his discussion about his inability to sing—and if this were fiction instead of biography, wouldn’t music make the most perfect metaphor?
Real life is sometimes so generous with its symbolism.Fry takes full advantage of this fact when appropriate, and he’s a very good storyteller, wonderfully tangential and honest and reflective.
Meandering, witty, defensive, wildly self-indulgent, honest, conceited and very entertaining, reading Moab is my Washpot is an experience which I must imagine is very akin to sitting down with Stephen Fry and having him talk with and/or at you for a couple of hours about any subject which comes into his head.
Fry recounts the first twenty years of his life—his periods at various boarding schools; his struggles with his sexuality; his suicide attempt and his conviction for fraud—with a great deal of candour.
That said, still a very enjoyable book, which gives a very amusing insight into the weird and wonderful effects which the English boarding school system can have.
During a recent bout of post-surgical insomnia I whiled away my middle-of-the-night hours watching episode after episode of QI, hosted by Stephen Fry, on Youtube.
He writes about the difficulties inherent in growing up and his own difficultness, sometimes extreme, during that time period with both candour and discretion, changing the names of some people to save them from potential embarrassment or pain at their inclusion in his reminisces.
You know that question, "If you could have dinner with any three people, alive or dead, who would they be?" Stephen Fry would be one of the three at my table, and I'd be tempted to tell the other two to be quiet, the better to let him ramble on.
