https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56073.Living_History
Maybe I'm feeling guilty for not supporting an accomplished woman's presidential candidacy.
Maybe I'm becoming increasingly aware that the media hasn't treated Hillary Clinton fairly compared to Barack Obama.
Whatever the reason, I've been taking a second look at Hillary Clinton and decided to finally read her autobiography--the one in which I stood in line for 3 hours for her book signing.
I was surprised by how much I enjoyed the book, how readable it was, and how personable Senator Clinton is.
I finished the book with a renewed respect for the Senator and all that she has accomplished as an individual, and for women.
Enjoyable read..interesting history lesson and life on being a first lady....(paperback!)
Far from wanting to influence public opinion of the American people, I think Hillary has everything it takes to be the first woman president of this country.
A positive attitude, easy to communicate, commitment to what they do, flexibility and adaptation to adversity, know how to manage, with priorities, the working group are many of the features that Hillary presents.
I think this book is a good start to get to know better the political activity (if it is not already well known), by Hillary Clinton.
Enjoyable read! interesting history lesson and life on being a first lady (paperback!)
(In her acknowledgments Clinton mentions Lissa Muscatine as “Responsible for many of the words in my speeches as First Lady and in this book”.)The first few chapters, about Clinton’s early years and college days, are rather plodding, but once she meets Bill at Yale Law School in 1971 things pick up, and I found the whole informative and diverting.
I LOVE bios and I did enjoy this one.
Hillary was doing amazing, selfless things at a very young age and I was very inspired!
The thing that I didn't like about the book was that it was sort of a "who's who" list at times.
I appreciate that she remembers everyone who has ever helped her, but it seemed fake.
Here's who I know...here's who I appreciate...blah, blah.
I'm on the fence about Hillary as a politician.
But as a person, I like her and I very much admire her strength.
I got a feel throughout the book that she really was truly in love with Bill and that his betrayal of her with Monica hurt her deeply, but it was her love of him that ultimately kept them together.
Hillary talks about her health care reform efforts and how those were blunted by the Republicans, although she did get more accomplished there than I had realized.
All in all, if you're a Clinton fan, you'll probably enjoy the book.
A lot of people on Goodreads complain about the name dropping in this book, but I viewed it as legitimate.
Hillary DID have a lot of people to talk about and thank.
Now I have to read Bill's books....
I won't take this review as an unbridled opportunity to defend Clinton in the wake of her current demon-ization by the press (both liberal and conservative.) Suffice to say that I don't see how one can not finish this book and not gather that she is HANDS DOWN the most QUALIFIED Democratic candidate for the U.S. Presidency.
This is worth the read for an appreciation of her role in breaking new ground for the first lady as ambassador and foreign policy consultant.
Very interesting in light of popular indictment of her role in the failed (more like doomed) push for healthcare reform during the Clinton admin.
Also interesting to get her perspective on Whitewater, although of course, the reader must consider the source.Oh, and the Lewinsky stuff?
I did not realize how badly I wanted to see a woman president until I listened to this book on audio and listened to her voice and fell in love with Hillary Clinton and started crying (lots of times throughout).
It's really interesting to hear about all of the scandals during the Clinton presidency from the other side and then to compare them to what's happening now.
Listen to the audio version of this book instead of reading it, I think.
It's nice to hear Hillary's clear voice.
(Audio for rent at Women and CHildren FIrst)
And I don't even regret Hillary didn't make it to president.:]Warning: This text isn't as much about the book as it is inspired by the book!Living History, Hillary Clinton's autobiography, that focuses on her years in the White House.
I have always admired Hillary Clinton, and thought she is "good".
It was interesting to read about life as the First Lady in the White House, and about who Hillary Clinton actually was.
But I do also know that this book is an autobiography, and it presents things like Hillary Clinton wants me to see them.
Hillary Clinton is one intriguing person.
She has drawn strong opinions, both good and bad, over her politics and serious personality, but the lady deserves some respect.
Her autobiography is written in a straightforward manner, at times dry and crowded with name-dropping, but the details of Clinton's life and what she learned in her eight years as First Lady are often poignant.
In all, a stimulating look into the life of an intelligent, accomplished woman who continues to shape political history.
With all the media attention Clinton gets, it's hard to imagine her as a real person.
I never imagined Hillary Clinton, one of the most controversial figures in American politics, to have such a "normal" upbringing.
Even more surprising was reading about her conservative family and her own participation in the Young Republicans as a teen!
This book is a really interesting account of our country's history during the time of the Clinton presidency, even as Hillary's own opinions shine through.
It was nice to get to know Hillary as a real person and not just a political figure.
I, Quinn Breen, do solemnly vow, that I shall never read another biography, memoir, or autobiography.As I sit here in guidance class thinking about this book I want to vomit.
Chris Kyle would skip like 5 months of his life at a time and I would be like "Yeah, whatevs bra"But with Hillary, it was like she tried writing down every single stupid little detail about her life.
My mistake to pick up a memoir written by a politician who was still trying to climb up the ladder of power.
In addition to telling life stories, a good memoir author should be able to honestly face the ultimate question from herself: who am I.
There is nothing wrong with pursuing more power, especially if the purpose is to “prepare the nation for the future”.
I am also not trying to judge her as a person as I hold a very neutral opinion here.
It’s just not the memoir I appreciate, as there is too much self-justification and too little introspection.
Bill is energized by people and Hillary is drained.
She has learned to overcome some of her shyness, but people don't seem to warm up to her easily.
After listening to this book, I find Hillary to be a warm, caring individual committed to helping others.
Hillary tells the story of her mother and father and how her mother was raised by her grandmother.
Her father was raised in Scranton, PA but escaped to Chicago as fast as he could.
She tells the stories of her college years, meeting Bill and her time in Little Rock, AK.
This memoir of United States Senator from New York and former First Lady and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.Living History was published in 2003 in the wake of those leaked revelations about Bill Clinton's last-minute confession of his affair with Monica Lewinsky, but that only takes up two or three pages of the book.
Indeed, the central theme in Living History is Clinton's journey through the role of first lady, a role she came to understand as both surrogate and symbolic.
At the same time, she came to understand that "the role of First Lady is deeply symbolic and that I had better figure out how to make the best of it at home and on the world stage".Living History is a long book.
Hillary's pre-Senate life was less known to me than I had anticipated, but the bones were there and my Spanish compensated where something about which I knew very little (like Whitewater) came up.
Like me, she started off as a conservative/Republican and gradually but deliberately developed more liberal positions when she left her little bubble.
I can see why people don't trust her--my god, the Clinton scandals never cease!--because for every scandal, instead of contrition there was just a bunch of "total ignorance," "just a big misunderstanding," or calumny of some sort, and this starts to wear a bit thin after 600ish pages.
The book was very historically interesting. I didn't know how much she fought for women's rights and for children's welfare (welfare reform period). She went through a lot and stayed strong. I admire her.
Finished my first ever biography! And I'm thankful that I have chosen one of Clinton's! A beautifully written biography! Hillary's writing is simple and very easy to understand, her life is sure a hell of a ride! Can't wait to read more of her books 😊 I love how she supports women rights which are equal to human rights, in this biography it shows feminism and more.
I would have liked to have read more details about her childhood and high school and college years because I found those sections very interesting and too short.
She obviously has had an incredible career and Chelsea, by all accounts, seems to be a very healthy, positive young woman in her own right.It was interesting reading Clinton's perspective on the 1990s, especially her explanations of her various faux pas through the years (the Tammy Wynette "Stand by Your Man" thing still tickles me even after all these years!) Most importantly, reading this book really made me excited for the possibility of a Clinton Presidency.
Julius Sumner Miller was first) you might ask, why Hillary?I have a vague interest in politics, but unfortunately, the Australian political scene is like a Punch and Judy show (apologies to P and J), Pommy (UK) politics is painfully boring, European politics is too complicated and they speak weird – and eat funny stuff.
So when I saw Hillo’s book, I thought I’d give it a go.It was nothing like I expected.
I did get the strong impression she wants to leave the world a better place.
Go Hilly!Listen you Americans – if you don’t want her, can we have her?
When her future mother in law meet her for the first time she did not know why her son who is well l
The book can be tedious to read. She shows a serious lack of humor. There is speculation that it was ghost-written. I suppose one should read it to find out details. It was only ok. And I like Hillary.
I love Hillary. I think she is a great politician and a wonderful inspiration for young women with political aspirations.Seriously though- she could have done so much better than Bill. I loved this book, until she met Bill.
I wanted to learn more about the life of the person I hope and believe will be our next President.This is the first political book I have EVER read.
Hopefully Hillary can do it as President!This book honestly made me feel like Hillary was my best friend.
She came across as such a HUMAN person, someone who I honestly thought was so cool and who I would want to hang out with.
As I've said, I am hoping for eight years of Hillary as our President so I recommend reading this book!
History does not tend to remember presidential contenders who were unsuccessful in their bid for the White House but she will be remembered for ever as the most influential First Lady, Senator from New York during 9/11, the first woman candidate for a major political party and one of the two principals in the most highly contentious election in the history of the country.Yet, she is someone who is mistrusted, even by many of those who supported her, and vehemently reviled by those who oppose her.
When I think of Hillary's historical analogue, the person that comes to mind is no less than Elizabeth I.
Hillary doesn't manage as personable a tone as Bill does in his.
Hillary's story could have ended in 2001 with the end of Bill's presidency, but somehow she picked up the pen and wrote herself an independent destiny.Will Hillary run in 2016?
I don't know, but I think she'd make a great president.(Postscript: And I love that Hillary and I share a favorite movie quote from "A League of Their Own"!)
Now that I've finished the book, I still think she would have made a great POTUS, but Secretary of State is definitely a great position for her.
Toward the end of the book, I feel like she really flew through the last few years of her time at the White House, but it's better than what Bill did in My Life By Bill Clinton.
Personally, I think Hillary is an amazing woman because she stayed with him after his indiscretions.
I'm just a few chapters in, but I already feel better about voting for Clinton in the primary.
Let's revel in that irony.[If you find a copy nearby, do check out the photographs.
There's a really funny one of her on the back of an elephant, where the driver looks freakishly tiny.]As much as I enjoy reading in general, this business of presidential candidates putting out books doesn't impress me much.
Some of them are well written, but the only candidate's books I've ever really enjoyed were those of Al Franken, and he was definitely a writer first.
Now there's a book that evokes personality and determination and so forth.
Only one of those books sets the reader into full-on fandom.Library copy
I listened to this unabridged book as an audiobook.It is read by Hill, herself.I have to say honestly it was pretty uninspiring - until the end.
It does give her point of view nicely of all the scandals of her administration, and for that reason it's worth reading.
The most inspiring part is her speeches about 'womens rights' being no different than 'human rights' and for that I have to totally agree with her.
Bill was a great president, despite the ridiculous scandals - both real and imagined - that ravaged his 8 years in office.
Hillary's point of view makes her more human to me.
