https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72161.Cat_on_a_Hot_Tin_Roof_and_Other_Plays
read for school
Now, I know what you're going to say, "but they're quite old!" But Bertholdt Brecht's plays are older, Oscar Wilde's plays are much older, and they aren't dated; the truth is that there's little that's timeless about Tennessee Williams: his plays were sensationalistic for their time, and have become rooted in their time.But it gets worse!In good dramatic writing, characters reveal themselves through their words and their actions.In primitive drama, plays for children, or bad drama, characters simply stand on stage and proclaim their inner selves, as in, "Hey!
I really like Tennessee Williams' style, with his strong characters, with strong personalities, and everything is going quickly...
Below, briefly what I thought of each story:Cat on a Hot Tin Roof: I thought the rythm was a little slow, and the scenes were very repetitive (I did not count how many drinks Brick took, but it must be a great number...).
After having finished reading the book though, this story is the one I see the most as "Tennesse Williams' style".
very repetitive, but interesting characters at the same time.
but that's it.The Glass Menagery really is my favourite play of Tennesse Williams up until now.
The collection consists of three different plays by Tennessee Williams: Cat on a Hot Tinroof, The Milktrain Doesn't Stop Here Anymore and The Night of the Iguana.
Overall the collection was quite versatile, though the plays were at parts very depressing.
Each play is judged individually.My favorite one was Cat on a Hot Tinroof, mainly because of the versatile characters and plot, which was interesting and not too complicated to follow.
The language was at parts a bit difficult to read, because of the southern accent used in the text, but it gave depth to the play.
The dialogues between Maggie and Brick in particular were sometimes painful to read which made the tension feel even more real.
It was amazing to unearth so many mixed emotions (loneliness, fear, guilt, envy, revenge etc) in such a short play and it provides an intriguing overview of how complex people's lives can be.The other two plays in this edition were interesting, but very slow going.
The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore is bitterly slow, perhaps to correlate with the narrator's impending death, though I struggled to get through it.
Whilst in my opinion not Tennessee's best work-- a merit that belongs to A Streetcar Named Desire, Cat on a Hot Zinc Roof remains as one of his classics, a must read for all lovers of the dramatic arts.
Still poignant, the story touches, like many of the author's other works, the theme of apparence versus being; are we really what we seem?
In this play set in a rich plantation in the South, the characters join together to honour the patriarc of the family, Big Daddy, but the relationships between them are never quite what they want them to seem to be.
A relatively easy read, interesting and vibrant.
The cat refers to a particular fantasy of femininity and feminine desire. The play's primary cat is Maggie, a typically hysterical, dissatisfied Williams heroine who prostrates herself before Brick. Maggie's loneliness has made her a "cat," hard, anxious, and bitter. The exhilaration of Williams's dramaturgy lies in the force of the audience's identification with this heroine, a woman desperate in her sense of lack, masochistically bound to man who does not want her, and made all the more beautiful in her envy, longing, and dispossession.
Last year, I read Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and I thought it was amazing!
Although a mature book, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is interesting and reminds me of everyday life.
The book was written in play form, so it was like I was actually observing this ongoing conversation.
Throughout the book, there were many life lessons in between.
The big take away I got was to do what makes you happy because if you try to please others then you won't be content with yourself.
I would recommend this book to anyone because it can help guide them in things that they do in life.
Classic Southern Gothic, class-conflict and inner demon riddled theatre.When I picked this up at the library I'd already read The Night of The Iguana and Cat on A Hot Tin Roof and loved them. So I was interested in The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Any More, which I'd never heard of. This story in particular is by no means his strongest play but has some decent satire in it and a memorable lead to boot. Overall highly recommend.
I've never been a fan of the fallen Southern family genre but Williams knows how to draw interesting characters. The only trouble is they belabor their problems without any revelation or charater development. I makes me want to drink until I hear the 'click' that Brick rambles on about. But it will be interesting to see the new all-black cast of 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' in London...
I did this play, at least I rehearsed the whole thing in the beginning of my acting career. Only performed monologues from it...the remainder was alone in my LA apartment. I was Brick and Big Daddy. I liked Big Daddy best, only wish I could have been as good as Burl Ives in the role.
I'm biased. I think Tennessee Williams is our Shakespeare. I don't really care what he writes about as long as he keeps creating that amazing dialogue. Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is stunning. My nominee for The Great American Drama.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0051459
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0051459
Tin roof not one of my favorite Williams plays, but the final scene in the movie between Elizabeth Taylor and Paul Newman is the hottest thing you've ever seen.
Fantastic - wonderful to analyse!The mood is perfect.
Intense and dramatic! I love his plays. Once you start reading you can't stop.
Extremely heart rending play... The conjugal relationship between Brick and Maggie demonstrates beautifully the unexpected lacunae between hubby and wife... love Williams' plays...
