https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25653545-murder-in-stained-glass
Sadly, this is the only book to star this detective, though Armstrong did write two other murder mysteries.The author's family were stained glass artists (Armstrong herself was a book designer who started writing fiction in later life), so she clearly knows her stuff and the portrayal of this world feels very authentic.
So overall I'd probably give this 3 1/2 stars.For anyone who wants to know more about this author, The Passing Tramp blog had an interesting article about her life and her family's art: http://thepassingtramp.blogspot.co.uk...
and also a detailed, spoiler-free, review of the book: http://thepassingtramp.blogspot.co.uk...
Murder in Stained Glass is the opener of a new series of old titles all falling under the heading of "American Queens of Crime", issued by Pepik Books.
The novel also has one of the best twists that I must say I never saw coming -- and in this book, there are a number of potential suspects as well as a few well-placed red herrings that will keep any reader guessing.
Yes, it's a bit dated but once in the mindset of the period, it became a fun, interesting and delightful read.
Recommended for vintage crime readers.
Miss Trumbull, a well off spinster, goes to visit Charlotte, an old schoolfriend, and gets caught up in a lot more than she expected.
If the weather hadn’t cleared I wouldn’t have gone to stay with Charlotte Blair; I shouldn’t have been on hand with my eyes wide open when things began to happen; I shouldn’t have been forced to play the part of innocent bystander – a dangerous part when bullets are flying about; and as I should have known nothing about the case, except what I read in the newspapers, I couldn’t have been of the smallest use to anybody concerned.
Or, rather, I saw it sooner."Near Charlotte's home is the Ullathorne glass shop, which is where the legendary glass artist Frederick Ullathorne crafts his glass masterpieces.
A frothy, silly mystery wherein the wealthy New York socialite amateur detective goes to extreme measures to solve a murder but comes very close to becoming one of the victims. The story revolves around a famous artist who has just finished his greatest work of stained glass. He then stages his own death to get out from under a blackmailer. It is mildly amusing, but not enough to look for others just now. This book came to my attention as part of the Lost Crime Classics Collection available from Amazon.
Got onto this book through the Queens of Crime list as I was looking for something like Agatha Christie - and I wasn't disappointed.Good simple narrative with all the elements of a good whodunnit - dead bodies, suspects, red herrings, elusive detectives, interfering but knowledgable "Miss Marple" type and, of course, the murderer who is not revealed until the final chapter!The only thing that was slightly lost on me was to why the murderer did what they did.
I may have missed something - might have to peruse the pages again.Otherwise a very satisfying read.
Will be looking for other books in the series.
This was free on Amazon and is worthwhile for fans of classic amateur detection.Fairly straightforward murder mystery which is easy to read. Interesting background of stained glass making. Not top notch but quirkily amusing in places.The names are fun, vaguely Dickensian!
A nice cozy mystery.
What a great nor type book!I was not familiar with this author, however, I certainly will be very soon.
Her writing is so interesting and creative.
Not sure how old she is but she sure picked up on Victorian speak, actions and mannerisms!
I love books and movies from that Era and a he takes you back there from the first page to the last.
All the quirky characters and twists are so very fun.
Even if you are not especially into this Era or this type of mystery, try it, I think this talented author may make a convert out of you.
The body of a local glass artist is discovered while Miss Harriet Trumbull is staying with her friend Charlotte Blair at Bassett's Bridge. Her interest is piqued and she starts to investigate.An enjoyable mystery, original written in 1939.
En esta historia ubicada a principios de siglo XX, Miss Trumbull viaja a un pequeño pueblo en las afueras de Nueva York a visitar una amiga cuando se ve envuelta en un asesinato ocurrido en una fábrica de vitrales.
A fun enough read most of the way through, but I personally didn't like the ending!
I didn't make it past page 5 found it boring.
A decent mystery and enjoyable read.
Mrs. Podsnap, Mr. Drinkwater, Mrs. Winklebrook and Mrs. Pullover for a few!Bones were found in a kiln.
Burned so hot that the bones were almost dust and very fragile.
So the clue that told them who the body was is a little far fetched."Your Honor, I have just received a report on th shred of cloth and the two trouser buttons found in the kiln.
The New York police inform me that L P Fortune, the tailor, made a suit of this sort of cloth, a Canadian homespun, for ******** about two years ago.
2.5 stars. Just okay...the mystery plot itself was fairly interesting, but the writing rather perfunctory and the characters never became three-dimensional. I suspected the culprit all along, but not because of any clue; just the way they acted! Also, it does seem a decided cheat that (view spoiler)[we're told blackmail was the motive but never learn what the person was being blackmailed for—or even how they were acquainted with the blackmailer! (hide spoiler)].(Minor point, but the ebook cover led me to believe this was a glamorous NYC-set mystery when in fact most of it takes place in a country village.)
As a fan of Agatha Christie books I decided to try this, and I am so pleased I did.
It is very much in the vein of AC, a gentle whodunnit with a few twists and surprises, very much of its time (written in 1939) but set in the USA rather than in England, and that made it sufficiently different from AC's books.
An added bonus for me is that the story is features a stained glass maker, and glass is one of my passions, so it is always a joy to find books set in the glass world.
A good enough vintage read with its ups and downs. Miss Trimble is OK, even if what interested me most about her was her apparent affluence. The murder plot is far more convoluted than seems reasonable and while Trimble does solve the crime, critical details are left out making it unlikely the reader will.
For a free read from Amazon, I would say , if you like a classic murder mystery this is one of the best. Written in the Agatha Christie style it has all the twists and surprises and sometimes the humor you would expect. Read and enjoy.
Amazon - 17/10/2016
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Easy readThis was a perfect little storyline to keep you interested and written to keep you guessing. If you are looking for a book to read on a journey to work this is great.
