https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152662.What_s_Eating_Gilbert_Grape
Endora is where we are, and you need to know that describing this place is like dancing to no music. It’s a town. Farmers. Town square. Old movie theater closed down so we have to drive sixteen miles to Motley to see movies. Probably half the town is over sixty-five, so you can imagine the raring place Endora is on weekend nights. The bright side for me is difficult on mornings like these. There’s no escaping that I’m twenty-four years old, that I’ve been out of Iowa a whopping one whole time
Probably half the town is over sixty-five, so you can imagine the raring place Endora is on weekend nights.
I can't believe I'm actually going to say this, but I liked the movie better than the book.
I like reading about regular people with real problems.
I love good old-fashioned granny/grandpappy names, like Becky, Gilbert, Arnie.
I am sick of reading about good-looking rich hipster characters with names like Rule, Shaw, Sparrow, Asher, Sharkeisha, etc.
I drive around town and dream about going places.
I dream about the kind of families I watched on TV as a kid.
Peter Hedges created many memorable characters in small town Endora, Iowa, also known derogatorily by Gilbert as Endora of the line.
A touching story about a dysfunctional family wasting away as their mother Bonnie eats herself into oblivion, I rooted for Gilbert to get out of town the entire time.
It has been twenty years since I read this charming novel, but Gilbert, Arnie, and Bonnie have stayed with me, and I recommend Peter Hedges' work to any looking for a book about small town America.
“You can tell the idyllic nature of a family by the upkeep of its picnic table. Ours is its own indictment. We are splintering and peeling. We rot.” – Gilbert Grape Before Jonathan Safran Foer was the talk of literary circles for writing Everything is Illuminated at such a young age, there was Peter Hedges. What's Eating Gilbert Grape is his profound post-coming-of-age novel about twenty-four year old Gilbert Grape, a grocery store stock boy living in the tiny town of Endora, Iowa. Grappling wi
Grappling with the desire to leave town and start an exciting life elsewhere, and the guilt and responsibility to stay and care for his family, he is unprepared when a beautiful young girl from the big city comes to town, and unexpectedly helps him come to terms with his feelings about his family and their past.Considering how old Hedges was when he wrote this, it too was equally profound.
Gilbert is a complex young man, and several times I found myself thinking about how Johnny Depp was the perfect actor for this character.
I was also struck by the loving relationship Gilbert has with his disabled brother, Arnie, probably one of the most astute characters in the book.
Further topics Peter Hedges wrote about are as follows:-Economic depression-Adultery-Sudden death-Family shame-SuicideIt’s too much, and it’s What’s Eating Gilbert Grape’s biggest flaw.
Hedges’s most promising storylines involve Gilbert’s obese mother, Bonnie and mentally handicapped brother, Arnie.
What’s Eating Gilbert Grape could have been really something if it had Gilbert and Bonnie just as they are, but with a honed mother-and-son focus or if it had Gilbert and Arnie just as they are, but with the honed focus on him and his brother.
As a result, What’s Eating Gilbert Grape is more of a light read, and that’s a shame, because I doubt that’s what Peter Hedges intended.
Gilbert Grape lives at home with two of his three sisters, Amy and Ellen, and one of his two brothers, Arnie.
In a very sad, but real way.The Grape clan was a bunch of characters to say the least and Gilbert's friends and fellow citizens were every bit as quirky, but anyone who has ever lived in a small town knows this is the way people really are.
Becky belonged in Endora in the same way Gilbert belongs and for some of the same reasons that Gilbert's older siblings who have left town do not.
From a passage in the book where Momma is talking to Gilbert about motherhood/creastion: "I see you and I know that I'm a god.
Yes, Gilbert.
And you, Gilbert, are my knight in shimmering armor."..."Shining, I think, Momma, is what you mean."..."No, I know what I mean.
You don't shine, Gilbert.
You shimmer.
This novel shimmers with that soft, tremulous light.
The above discussion of "shimmer" is such an example.
As is this, possibly my favorite sentence in the book, marking the moment of Gilbert's, for lack of a better word, awakening: "And as the remaining dirt on Arnie starts washing away, it begins." I have wanted to read this book for years.
One of the few books where I enjoyed the movie version more.
Here are some unsettling things about the book version that got left out of the movie:-Gilbert is kind of an asshole, especially the way he constantly refers to his brother as "the retard." Not even Johnny Depp could have made that a likeable trait.-Becky, Gilbert's love interest, is fourteen.
-Glbert's younger sister goes on a date with the owner of the funeral home.
She is fifteen, and they are discovered together in the back of the funeral car.
Ew. If you liked the movie, you might find this book interesting, but I wholeheartedly prefer the movie.
Yes, I am a librarian and have been for a really long time and still, I had no idea this was a book.So much shame for me.My ridiculous excuse that I just now made up to make myself feel better about my prior ignorance: This came out in 1991 and I had been in college for a year and was getting the hang of things and really buckling down to study and such.
That's my excuse.Anyway, I now know this is a book and I have read it.It makes the movie make a lot more sense.
From IMDb:Gilbert has to care for his brother Arnie and his obese mother, which gets in the way when love walks into his life.
If I liked the book, I'm curious to see how they adapt it for the screen.
If I liked the movie or at least found it interesting, I want to go back to read the book to fill in the inevitable blanks.
House of Sand and Fog, for example, was a great adaptation of the book but ended when there was still half the book to go.
Ditto for Cavedweller.Then you've got a book like this, which takes the same characters (Gilbert Grape and his dysfunctional family remnants) and setting (a dying small town in rural Iowa) but has a totally different mood from the film.
His distance from everyone let's him look at them in a light untouched by positive regard or optimism.
He shares with the reader the brutal truth of what he's thinking, which is often guiltily hysterical.Even still, you know there's a heart somewhere in there by the way he looks after Arnie.
It was one of the sweetest relationships I've ever seen, although he treated everybody else kind of like crap.There's no use trying to escape your life, it won't make any of it better.Loving people is the best thing you can do for yourself.
A Masterpiece
The story of the Grape family in the novel is more realistic, while all the characters are simply more human.
Surprisingly it is the book, not movie, that brings the flesh and bone to Gilbert's struggles and to people around him, who do not serve as background characters but simply feel as other real people living in Endora.Arnie's illness is far less pretty, Amy's struggles are far harder, and his mother is more disturbed than in the movie.
And there is far more that's eating Gilbert Grape.
One of my very favorite books.
I'd seen (and loved) the movie version before picking up this book, but it was the style of writing that made it jump out to me and establish itself as separate.
Gilbert's inner monologue?
Brilliant and hilarious, I could go on and on.
It felt so REAL to me.
Through the prose I was enveloped in the sleepy town vibe so completely that I felt as if Endora were my own hometown, familiar in every way.
I continue to recommend this book to anyone searching for a good read, and no one has been disappointed so far.
None of this really sounds like a good book to me.But this book (and Gilbert) did very much captivate me.
Gilbert is affecting because he simply recognizes what is good and true.
He is sensitve to what is good and true.
I want him to be able to 'live out' what is 'good and true'.
And he doesn't say enough (or do enough) when confronted with the 'good and true' that he desires.
The community (in this book) seems to have a rooting interest in Gilbert.
This probably would be removed if Gilbert is not handsome, and the book would be much different.

I enjoyed it so much because it’s not quite a coming of age story; Gilbert is older and feels the adult pressures of being a grown up but he’s still young enough that his life has not passed him by, even though he thinks it has, and all these other characters in the book are trying to show him this.
Coming from a “unique” family myself, this story endures itself to me as much for the good of it’s characters but also their flaws.
My only regret is that I wish I had read this book sooner!
This was my favourite book when I was a teenager. I loved it when I was in high school, had parts of it memorized and read it multiple times. I was nervous and scared to read it. But you know what, I LOVED it. It's extremely well written and the voice is strong. It is funny and sad and influential. It has shaped the way I write . I still love this book. I noticed that the author has a contact form on his website. I intend to write him a note.
I had no idea it was a book, because it's not the type of literature I pay much attention to: it would normally be considered too realistic for my usual taste, plus it is too modern for my taste in classic 'realistic' literature (I tend to stop in the 1960s).
As good as the film genuinely is, the book proves the rule that one should always read first, watch later, whenever possible.
The book adds so much, and causes me to think of the story and characters in ways the movie could not.
I don't think I would have given it 4 stars if I only read the book, but I kept picturing the movie, which I loved (although it has been at least a decade since I last watched it).
Full review to come. (I hate reading slumps.)
But for me, the book felt like it was missing some pieces.
I like a skimmed down, show the important things to the main character, get to the story way this book is told.
And you forget how things used to be until you read the older books.
But this wasn't also what took off some stars for me.I think it was because in the book, Gilbert and Becky weren't the same from what I LOVE about the movie.
Reading him stressed me out.Another thing was the additional siblings of the Grape family.
Nothing like the book.
Another title for this book could have been "Dysfunctional Family Personified." While I did enjoy the read, I felt that the subject matter has been done often and frankly a lot better.
We follow Gilbert and his family of siblings and a grossly overweight mother through their sufferings and eventually experience their love realizations of each other.
I suppose for the time in which it was written, that this book was intended to shake up readers to the realization that a) don't think your family is the worst, and b) someone always has things worse than you do.
Yes, the dialogue is sometimes a little forced and some of the characters are a tad too eccentric to come off real, but Gilbert Grape's voice makes up for all of that.This is a great novel I'm glad I finally read.I almost feel like I lived in Endora for the last two days.
This sort of feeling like you know all these people: Larry the brother who won't deal but will succeed.
And finally, Gilbert, the family member who seems to know the truth about everybody else, yet, won't see his own.We know these people.
What’s Eating Gilbert Grape?
from the perspective of someone who grew up in Iowa -- that field-of-dreams, first-to-the-primaries, nothing-but-corn-and-more-corn mythical paradise that purports to be the heartbeat of the United States -- is a romance.
Romance, not in sense of 24 year old Gilbert being torn between an affair with a married woman old enough to be his mum and a femme fatal 15 year old from Michigan, but in the sense of Don Quixote in quest of the Holy Grail, of Holden Caulfield searching for honesty.
Gilbert is looking for a path around his family in a state where family is a synonym for the deity.
If you haven't read this book or seen the film adaptation, this is one book you should definitely read at some point because it's an amazingly written coming-of-age story about a young man dealing with a dysfunctional family while trying to find his own place in the world as well.
His brother, Arnie, is "retarded" as Gilbert puts it - but Gilbert cares very much for him and tries his best to keep the town gawkers, gossips and bullies away.
The small town Gilbert lives in is facing economical changes and Gilbert himself is having issues with women.
This is by far one of my favorite books!
Before reading this novel, I had previously read Hedges's other novel, An Ocean in Iowa.
Both are fantastic!
Those of you avoiding the novel because you've seen the movie are making a mistake.
Gilbert is an amazing character who struggles to understand his role in the world.
I've followed Hedges's career since, and though he doesn't write novels anymore, his film career has filled the void.
He still manages to display the same tenderness, and heartbreaking solitude within each of his characters.
Hedges' masterful first novel should be studied and studied (and studied again) by anyone thinking of writing a book in the first-person/present-tense because it is a style that only lends itself properly to a particular voice, rhythm, and cadence.
It should never be approached in the same manner as a novel written in the more common first-person/past-tense.
That said, What's Eating Gilbert Grape is nothing short of a modern classic.
I've read it over 30 times (on one particular occasion, I immediately turned to the first page after finishing the last and started reading again), and I know with complete certainty that I will read it many more times before my time is done.
I'm really upset that this book isn't appropriate for me to read with my 8th graders. I was really looking forward to giving them something full of feeling, something real, something with the kind of problems that actually exist, and of course, showing them a Johnny Depp movie. But there is too much for me to overlook, at least for the 8th grade. I really liked it...so many themes in common with The Catcher in the Rye...just a different generation, a different family, a different landscape.
UPDATE: I can't stop thinking about this! 5 stars!4.5 starsWhat's Eating Gilbert Grape is one of my all time favorite movies! The book is a lot different than the movie, but I enjoyed it very much! Although I must say I like the movie adaption better!
