https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34440.Doctor_Faustus
"Ode to Despair"Figuratively or musically speaking, Thomas Mann lets time and culture move backwards, from the emotional bliss and security of Beethoven's 9th symphony expressing hope for humanity, to his 5th symphony symbolising fate knocking at the door, in one German novel of gigantic weight and proportions.
Starting with the 19th century's belief in progress and development, the plot moves us through the delusional madness of the first and second world wars, showing the genius of German culture degenerate into mental disease and the destructive power of Nazi Germany.We follow a narrator's obsessively close analysis of a childhood friend, a talented and self-important musician with charisma.
The idea of the composer as a writer is particularly intriguing; Mann reminds us that Beethoven continued to write music long after he became deaf but could experience it by reading the score as we read a book.I loved the character of Adrian Leverkühn too, there was an honesty about him that seemed to me in total contrast to the narrator’s opacity although the narrator supposedly represented ‘good’ and Adrian ‘evil’.
♫. Another neat coincidence worth mentioning here are the references Thomas Mann makes to Laurence Sterne and Jonathan Swift, both of whom I was reading while I was reading Doctor Faustus.Speaking of Swift and Sterne reminds me of the aspect of Mann’s writing I admire the most: his quirky characters.
THE LAMENTATIONS OF THE HUMANIST NOVEL Oratorio in Five Parts.Composer: M.Conductor’s Edition.Dynamics and Mood: Melancholia.Tonality: G** minor.Venue: Church of St. Thomas, Leipzig.Date: 23rd May 1943. Duration: The Hour-Glass will determine its Time.Première: Serenus Zeitblom as Conductor.Singers: Tanya Orlanda (a dramatic soprano and a stupendous woman with a heroic voice).Harald Kjoejelund (as Heldentenor, a quite rotund man with pince-nez and voice of brass. (p. 293)OVERTUREI, John Serenus
More bewitching music is needed and I will introduce then some of Liszt’s Mephisto Waltzes in all their sensuality.FIRST Part: A Trio of Order, Humanity and Love.
To reinforce her point, Holst now finally comes to the fore with his Neptune, the Mystic planet, and we hear the celestial sounds of his celesta accompanied by the harps of Haydn’s angels.
If we forget Handel, the great internationalist, born in Germany but who learnt a great deal of his music in the land of the arts, incorporated elements from the land of beauty, and then developed his compositions in yet another court, we could fall and let us be driven by nationalist conjuring in its devilish quest for power.
“…a night, where it doesn’t get dark for the lightnings.”This was the entire troubled life of the great groundbreaking composer Adrian Leverkühn…This is the world of man:All about him was coldness – and how do I feel, using this word, which he himself, in an uncanny connection, once also set down?
Στην ουσία της ιστορία μας πρωταγωνιστούν ο βιογράφος Ζερένους Τσάιτμπλομ κλασικός φιλόλογος, που γράφει μέσα απο την ψυχή του και με βαθιά αγάπη, την βιογραφία του παιδικού του φίλου, του Άντριαν Λεβέρκυν.
Σε τέτοιου είδους κολοσσιαία έργα λογοτεχνίας φυσικά και μπορεί ο κάθε αναγνώστης - κι ας μην ειναι γνώστης μουσικής παιδείας- να προσπεράσει τα δύσκολα της λεπτομέρειας και να αφοσιωθεί στην ολότητα του κειμένου, στο σύνολο και στην αξία, που αποδίδεται απο τον συγγραφέα μαζικά, με εγκυρότητα και σημασία.
Ο απομονωμένος ευφυής συνθέτης είναι ένας απο τους ελάχιστους ανθρώπους της εποχής του που αναγνωρίζει τις δαιμονικές δυνάμεις στην τέχνη και την ανθρώπινη ζωή.
Here Mann locates art, that which resolves the horrible contradictions, which expresses in ambiguous tones something that, as much as is possible within the limits of our expressive capabilities, names the approach of grace.
Like in The Magic Mountain, if you make it through the first 250–300 slow, dense pages, things take off at a pretty good upwards clip, plus the long opening semi-slog becomes a super-strong foundation on which Mr. Mann builds his dramatic and thematic pinnacles.
A divine little boy makes a stand toward the end but not for long, thanks to Adrian's pact, which is sort of the point of the novel's end -- after Nazi horrorshow, the mass destruction and murder but also the eternal damnation in the narrator's eyes of all things German (the land, the people, the language, the culture), redemption/hope for humanity won't come easy.
I was quickly seduced from reading the first pages and I bought the book.
What started as a love affair soon gave way to a caring relationship.
The writer, through his narrator, took me gently by the hand and with quiet desperation guided me through the world of the musical genius Adrian.
The relationship of the hero and the narrator at times reminded me of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson.
At other times I felt like I was reading Jane Austen, Goethe, or even Dickens.
I am a musical person but sadly I never mastered the reading of notes.
Let me tell you, I incline more and more to the admission that there is something very odd indeed about this music of yours.[...]I do not like to call it beautiful.
The word 'beauty' has always been half offensive to me, it has such a silly face, and people feel wanton and corrupt when they say it.
But it is good, good in the extreme, it could not be better, perhaps it ought not to be better...It's the Faust story, except with modern music, serialism, music theory, philosophical dialogues, the psychology of religion, hidden love, a political allegory (although I don't buy that one as much) and Mann's delicious gnarled referential prose style.
Ο Μαν στο τελευταίο του βιβλίο θέτει πολύ ψηλά τον πήχυ, τόσο που νομίζω χάνει λίγο την ουσία, παράλληλα με τους μουσικούς όρους. Το λεξιλόγιο, της μετάφρασης, είναι όμορφο αλλά δυσκολότερο από την πλειοψηφία των μυθιστορημάτων. Δεν μπορώ να κρίνω αν ήταν καλή η μετάφραση, σίγουρα όμως πρόκειται για ένα κατόρθωμα. Δεν το θεωρώ εντέλει καλύτερο από το μαγικό βουνό και τους Μπούντενμπροκ, αν και αντιλαμβάνομαι την ποιότητα του έργου, ασχέτως αν δεν κατάφερα να μπω στο κλίμα 100%.
Or even be humbled in a group read with readers who know or can track down every clue.
I don't know if all group reads are like this (I suspect not); but my sincere thanks to everyone who participated, even if by a single post.
It's, you know, small stuff.)Yes, yes, it's about Germany, and Germany's soul.
No. The metaphors can be demonic or Devil may care.Where were you when you had a choice?
What shape was the choice, and what shape the advice?
A well-turned ankle?
Even as I toss and turn.
And ask myself: would I have made a different choice?Du?
Obwohl ich die frühen Werke von Thomas Mann sehr mag, hatte ich vor diesem Spätwerk einigermaßen Respekt und war auch nur bedingt durch eine Leserunde bereit, mich dem Faust-Stoff auf der Ebene eines Künstlerromans zu widmen.
Meine Grenzen wurden oft überschritten, und ich musste lange Passagen über mich ergehen lassen, in denen ich nur recht wenig verstand von dem, was der Autor zu erzählen hatte.
Manns Leidenschaft zur Musik war nicht bloß auf das Genießen wunderbarer Kompositionen beschränkt und daher ist es kein poetisches Buch über die Schönheit der Kunst.
One is "How can the culture that produced Bach and Beethoven also produce Auschwitz." A second naive question is "Can there be poetry after Auschwitz." I think about the novel "Doktor Faustus" as a response instead of an answer.
Since music has served as a source of great national pride for Germany, starting long before the country actually existed as a unified nation-state, Mann revises the deal with the devil.
Something indigenous, that is beautiful and magical, has a dangerous internal logic...I don't think Mann asks us to read this as a universal, but that is how I read it.
*******Thomas Mann, from his 1930 speech which was, as one would expect, protested and interrupted by S.A. men sent by Goebbels for precisely that purpose, and which I paste here just because it reminds me why I love the guy, and feel fitting for our current political climate: Der exzentrischen Seelenlage einer der Idee entlaufenen Menschheit entspricht eine Politik im Groteskstil mit Heilsarmee-Allüren, Massenkrampf, Budengeläut, Halleluja und derwischmäßigem Wiederholen monotoner Schlagworte, bis alles Schaum vor dem Munde hat.
Fanaticism turns into a means of salvation, enthusiasm into epileptic ecstasy, politics becomes an opiate for the masses, a proletarian eschatology; and reason veils her face.)  ***** Anyone read a good bio of Mann?
The relationship between the book's narrator and his forsaken hero, Adrian, dallies in sentiments rarely explored between two male characters.
There are some echoes of Herman Hesse's  Narcissus and Goldmund, except that Adrian Leverkühn's encounter with "love" comes with dire consequences.I'd like to re-read the novel with a focus on the music only, because what resonated for me most loudly was how the book serves as a treatise on the dangers of blind nationalism.
His story is told by a childhood (and adult) friend Serenus Zeitblom, who also presents the changes in German culture during the years, ending with the bombing of Germany by the Allies and the encroaching Russian army.The allegories are plentiful, the writing is often amazing.
Toward the end of the book, in passages such as the latter, I even began to glimpse some of what Mann was saying in the musical interludes.I think this is a brilliant book, written by a German ex-pat living in the United States, compelled to write of what he knew to be a horror in the land he loved.I do recommend this with the acknowledgment that this is, at times, not an easy read.
Destina il suo tempo alla stesura della biografia del suo carissimo amico: il compositore Adrian Leverkuhn.
E qui, Adrian avrà una lunga conversazione con il demonio; conversazione che si concluderà con un patto infernale: 24 anni di esaltante forza creatrice e poi la dannazione.Adrian non potrà coltivare affetti, avere una vita normale, amici, una compagna, gli verranno strappati l’amore e la gioia del piccolo “Echo”.
Il dolore e la disperazione del suo animo corrispondo al dolore e alla disperazione di un popolo.P.S. Non è certo una lettura scorrevole, semplice, lieve.
Un vast studiu romanţat despre decăderea psihică a unui însetat de cunoaştere, a unui erudit ce nu se mulţumeşte cu telurica modalitatea de a cunoaşte, ci aspiră la absolut.
supranaturale.Un lucru foarte interesant: e uluitor cum Thomas Mann reuşeşte să scrie un Bildungsroman despre viaţa compozitorului german Adrian Leverkuhn folosindu-se de două planuri narative, unul situat în anii celui de-Al Doilea Război Mondial, iar celălalt, cronologic, din 1900 până în anii premergători războiului total dus de nazişti.
*Ioana, dacă acum, după atâta timp în care nu ne-am vorbit, citeşti asta, să ştii că-ţi mulţumesc pentru faptul că, atunci, în acele momente de cumpănă, mi-ai oferit prilejul să citesc această carte.*Andrei Tamaş,27 ianuarie 2016
Sin embargo, eso no quita que Mann se tome la tarea de explicar con solvencia y ánimo pedagógico algunos de los pasajes más difíciles (situados sobre todo al comienzo del libro) al final de la obra misma.
En este punto, creo que Mann retoma la vieja fórmula de Nietzsche (no pretendo ser para nada exhaustivo en esto) del "Nacimiento de la Tragedia" para definir a la Tragedia misma: el arte parte del diálogo dos fuerzas o pulsiones, lo apolíneo (lo ordenado, punto de partida de las composiciones del personaje azotado por Mefistófeles) y lo dionisiaco (lo desordenado, tal vez lo más pasional) y; 3) la obra de Leverkühn se muestra como un hijo de la historia.

Η κίνηση αυτή είχε καταστεί απαραίτητη καθώς o Mann ήταν ένας από τους λίγους ενεργούς δημοσίως αντιπάλους του ναζισμού, προβαίνοντας, μόλις με το ξέσπασμα του πολέμου το 1939, σε αντι-ναζιστικές ομιλίες.Η ίδια η υπόθεση του εκτενούς αυτού έργου άπτεται άμεσα της κατάστασης που επικρατούσε στη Γερμανία, καθώς η ζωή του πρωταγωνιστή και αντι-ήρωα Leverkühn χρησιμοποιείται ως καθρέφτης των εκδηλώσεων που συμβαίνουν ταυτόχρονα στη γερμανική πολιτική σκηνή και στην κοινωνία εν γένει.
Τα μουσικά δη στοιχεία του Doctor Faustus μολονότι πυκνά και στρυφνά, ιδίως για τον αναγνώστη που δεν έχει ασχοληθεί με τις νότες, που δεν είναι εξοικειωμένος με τη μουσική ορολογία, δεν αποτελούν τροχοπέδη στην απόλαυση του έργου.
Como amante da música, o que mais me interessava não era a lenda, mas o fato de narrar a vida de um compositor alemão, ainda que fictício.Li aquelas primeiras páginas umas trocentas vezes.
E o que surge diante dos meus olhos são capítulos maravilhosos, sensacionais, seja sobre música, seja sobre guerra, intercalados com uns capítulos malucos, de quebrar a cabeça.Ambientado na Alemanha da primeira metade do século XX, Doutor Fausto nos conta a história do músico Adrian Leverkühn, narrada por Serenus, seu amigo de infância, que tem uma profunda admiração pelo compositor.Após ter se relacionado com Esmeralda, uma prostituta, e contraído sífilis, Adrian, doente, faz um pacto com o diabo – em um capítulo de tirar o fôlego – no qual vende sua alma e a capacidade de amar em troca de 24 anos de uma carreira brilhante na música.
Ich fühlte wohl, daß mein Buch selbst das werde sein müssen, wovon es handelte, nämlich konstruktive Musik.
(Thomas Mann)Doktor Faustus ist tatsächlich, wenn man es so ausdrücken will, ein polyphones Gesamtkunstwerk geworden.
Als Leser muss man sich manches mal strecken, um den gestellten Ansprüchen gerecht zu werden.
Thomas Mann wollte nichts weniger als den Roman einer ganzen Epoche schreiben.
Ein Unterfangen welches in seiner allumfassenden Absicht, selbst geradezu faustisch genannt werden darf.
Es ist tatsächlich das Portrait einer Epoche geworden, in dem sich die Krise der bürgerlichen Gesellschaft zu Beginn des 20.
Ein Buch, welches vor allem durch seine enorme Vielschichtigkeit zu bestechen weiß.
دكتور فاوستوس.....توماس مانحفيد فاجنر وبيتهوفن وموتسارت يتحفنا بسيمفونية أدبية من أروع ما تكون،سيمفو
Mann is Teutonic Melville, and like Moby-Dick this book is filled with digressions and discussions alongside the unavoidable plunge toward madness and doom.
These digressions interweave the narrative with images of Dante’s Inferno, Dürer woodcuts, puppet theater, fairy tales, German culture during the period through the World Wars, lengthy discussions of Classical music, and apocalyptic and prophetic literature.
Its sad that the music discussed in this book is fictional becomes it all sounds really awesome.
Patience. That's the word.
What an extraordinary book. Thomas Mann—even translated into English—has such an immersive and yet easy style of writing. He’s a pleasure to read even when he’s not saying anything interesting, which he certainly is here with this deeply symbolic web of personality and history. Most interesting of all, however, is his deft use of a highly unreliable but entirely earnest non-protagonist narrator. I didn’t enjoy this quite as much as Magic Mountain, but it cements Mann as one of my favorite classic authors.
Ξεκινώντας μετά από σχετικά σχόλια που διάβασα σε μια ομάδα στο facebook, θεώρησα ότι μπορεί να κάνω λάθος τόσο καιρό που δεν διαβάζω κλασσικά και κατά κοινή σχεδόν ρύση αξιόλογα βιβλία.
μέσα από τη συμφωνία του πιανίστα με το διάβολο, ουσιαστικά κρίνει την Χιτλερική Γερμανία κλπ.) το βιβλίο είναι πλούσιο σε στοιχεία μουσικής, σύνθεσης αλλά κυρίως γλώσσας.
Για να μην γίνομαι κουραστική, νομίζοντας ότι λέω και τίποτα σπουδαίο, θα πρότεινα ανεπιφύλακτα στους ανήσυχους και "τολμηρούς", να κάνουν τη βουτιά σε βιβλία που μπορεί να φαντάζουν, αλλά και να είναι κουραστικά, όμως στο τέλος σε αποζημιώνουν πραγματικά για το άρωμα και τη γεύση που σου αφήνουν.
My reading of this book, like my reading of Beckett's Molloy, Malone Dies, and The Unnamable, has left a great gaping void where my brain used to reside, but a void more capable of being filled now, because of the beautiful trauma that has been inflicted therein.Since I am ill-equipped to address the slow-burning, then fast-burning plot, the emotionally deep and most-often tragic characters, or even the many clever uses of metafictional technique throughout, I will concentrate, quite simply, on one of the central conceits of the novel: the music of the composer, Adrian Leverkuhn.Mann has caught my innermost feelings regarding what I will call "avant-classical" music.
My initial reaction to being done this book is relief.
Like the other Thomas Mann book I've read, I've found this a slog at times.
But despite that, despite how long it took me to read, and how I was never quite eager to get back to it, I am glad I read it.
A difficult read, but still, a worthwhile one.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
