https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180645.Afternoon_on_the_Amazon
Read for my son as a review for his Advanced Reading test tomorrow. It’s a fun action and adventures read. A brother and sister exploring trip in the Amazon rainforest. They travel using the magic tree house and a book. During their travel in the new place, they often refer to the book for info. They encounter problems and figure out solutions. Their trip are for a mission. Highly recommended!
“It spun faster and faster then everything was still. Absolutely still.”
And I find that a lackluster story interspersed with a wooden main character reading aloud from a reference book isn't really the way I want Logan to get his facts.
In a 67-page story, here is what we got:--The Amazon rainforest is hot & steamy, has a lot of plants, and is made up of three layers: the floor, the understory and the canopy.
--When an animal blends into its surroundings, that's camouflage--Flesh-eating army ants march in hordes and eat flesh.--The Amazon river is over 4000 miles long.--Piranhas will eat anything, even people (seriously, that's all the info we got.)--Green snakes look like vines.
My favorite part about it was the piranhas and crocodile. And the silly monkey that kept throwing food at them. The ninja one is still my favorite.
I enjoyed this book because I liked the part when Jack and Annie got to the other side of the Amazon river in the Amazon rainforest. I did not like this book because I do not like crocodiles, jaguars, and monkeys.
Jack & Annie are still on their quest to find 4 things in order to break the spell that the enchantress Morgan le Fey is under. This time, the object needs to be found in the depths of the Amazon Jungle. Danger lurks around every corner! Jack & Annie encounter Snakes, Marching Army Ants, Jaguars and many other creatures along the way. Will they find the second object? Will anyone help them this time? This book is full of adventure and danger. A msut read for all Magic Tree House readers. =)
My six year old daughter loves this series and is reading it aloud to me.
"It doesn't matter if the bugs have names. They know who they are."This one got really deep at the end, but I loved it.
The book, “Afternoon in the Amazon” is about a girl and a boy named Annie and Jack.
They travel to the Amazon because they like the animals.
They keep traveling without the monkey down the Amazon River.
Do they make it back safely to the treehouse and their home?Annie and Jack are adventurous kids.
Annie is more talkative and Jack is a researcher.The story takes place in Frog Creek and then they travel to the Amazon.
They try hard to get the four items, but fail.
Both boys and girls would like this because of the adventure in the story.
With book 5, I started reading them out loud to my dogs.
This one was way too scary for the one dog I have how gets scared and anxious easily.
SPOILERS BELOWFor an adult, I thought this was interesting, but for a child (since it scared my dog) I could see how this could be rather scary and suspenseful.
However the kids managed to get back to the treehouse and finally learned the monkey wasn't being mean - he was just trying to give them a mango which was the second of the 4 things they need to help Morgan.
I think this book lends itself well to a unit study of the Amazon.
You can use this as a jumping off point to study animals, geography, weather, etc.
My generic review for the Magic Tree House books - We've loved them all so far.
They are fun, easy to read and contain quite a bit of historical information.
We use them as read-alouds, but most elementary/middle school kids could read them on their own.It does have a touch of 'girl power' at the expense of making the brother seem a little dumb.
They think Jack is just as cool as his sister.
Do you like interesting books?
If you do, you should read the series of the Magic Tree House because there are a lot of books in this series.
In one book, Jack, Annie, and Peanut went to the Amazon rainforest in a boat.
A monkey was throwing some things and they thought it was attacking them, but the monkey was just trying to help.If I was the judge, I would give the series 5 stars because all the interesting books in this series.
I will also give it a silver award because in each book it gives enough detail so I can picture what Jack and Annie are doing.Sincerely,Ben
My son is on a re-reading spree.
He could read them himself, but he still likes them for bedtime stories.
This one is quite harrowing, given that the Amazon rainforest is filled with dangerous animals at every turn.
But the kids prevail and find what their looking for, but not without the help of a "native".
But I countered with logic (and it actually was acceptable to my son!): if she needed help because she was under a spell then how could she transform herself into various other people/animals but not back into herself?
He said, "Oh, right".First read April 2015
In the sixth installment of the Magic Tree House Series, Jack and Annie travel to the Amazon Rain Forest in search of one of four items that will help them rescue Morgan Le Fey. They encounter a mango throwing monkey, a swarm of millions of marching army ants, a crocodile, a jaguar, a snake, and some piranhas.
Plenty of suspense and action in this amazing Amazon adventure.
After finding the second item, they return to Froggy Creek.
Just what is the second item?
Read it and find out.
Nice story with equally nice illustrations that help young readers picture the story.
Jack and Annie go back to their mission of saving Morgan le Fay. They travel to the Amazon rainforest to acquire the second object to save Morgan. Jack and Annie faced many threats from carnivorous animals. A monkey gave them the second object and they made it home safely.I liked it. It teaches about Amazon wildlife, the three layers of the rain forest and about the amazon river. I like how they are in the rain forest, which is very interesting to me.
Any book that gets my third grader's nose glued inside deserves a 5 star review--my daughter LOVES these books! Honestly can't put them down. She and I especially enjoyed this one set in the Amazon jungle.
Lexile 290 - Reading Counts 3 Points
don;t be afraid
In this book eight year old Jack and seven year old Annie found a magic treehouse.
At the last adventure they found a mouse in the treehouse and they also found a letter that said Morgan is under a spell it also said find five things in each adventure to free Morgan.
Jack and Annie discovered that the book they need to go into is the book that is lying open.
They carefully climbed out of the treehouse, minutes after Jack heard a weird sound soon Annie also heard it.
Do you think the fruit is the second thing they need to free Morgan?
In this book they decide to take a trip to the Amazon Rainforest to see the cool animals and have an awesome adventure.
A lady named Morgan LaFay has sent them on a quest to find four different items.
It is raining so hard that they can't find their treehouse to get back.
I have always liked the magic treehouse books.
This book also was a great lesson on never giving up in tough situations.This whole book series would be good to have in the classroom because it gives good insight on historical events and different places.
Jack and Annie were wondering around in the book of magic which could take them anywhere well they picked the Rain Forest.
Well they wondering around in the Amazon River which had crocodiles and a lot more scary predators.
There were vampire bats and fire ants.
They were get worried because mom and dad was probably wondering where they were .So they ran across the Amazon river on a log like they thought they were going to die.
Jack and Annie thought they were stuck.
Jack and Annie encountered snakes and marching army ants and crocodiles.
In this story, Jack and Annie open a book about the Amazon Rain Forest.
To their surprise, the Amazon is dark and rainy.
They encounter a lot of different things along their journey and put themselves into some pretty dangerous situations.
If you would like to find out if they make it out alive, then you should read Afternoon on the Amazon.
I loved these books growing up and I could always relate to them because I pretended they were about my brother and I.
If you have a big imagination, then these books are perfect for you.
They give a lot of insight into historical events and places.
Magic tree house: afternoon on the amazon is about two kids named Jack and Annie.
They find themselves in the Amazon after finding their lost mouse and a book about the Amazon.
They are on an adventure to find the second item they need for Morgan le Fay to free her from the spell.
They end up finding out that they needed a piece of fruit for Morgan.
It was a quick read and is good for children that like fun chapter books.
This could be a good book for the classroom to teach kids about the Amazon and what it's like there.
Decent intro to the Amazon rainforest and river A good simple introduction to spark curiosity.
The levels of the rainforest trees, the river and some animals are mentioned with simple info.
Reading in kindle (where I could tell with pages/book size) was confused when it was over because it seemed like there could have been more.
As a fun way to get a picture of what the rainforest can be like, including the levels, I’d recommend it as a start to learning more.
I highly recommend Journey to the River Sea for another amazon jungle/river book.
The pure luck of the children to not die is rediculous.
There are humans that live in the Amazon and are fine.
I got the impression that despite being allowed to roam free, these children have helicopter parents at all other times because they spout warnings to each other and no advice.
I know they might have been rarer back when this book was written, but mangoes can be found in supermarkets.
Actually, mangoes are from south Asia and Africa, aren't they?
-Wikipedia- Yep, looks like mangoes in S.
America would have been taken there to be farmed, not likely found in the Amazon.
All my third graders love this series, so I thought I'd try reading one, despite not liking these books as a child. I had hope that I have greater insight as an adult, but nope, child me was right about these books. They're awful. I get that they are supposed to teach kids about places while keeping them engaged, but a nonfiction book about the Amazon with pictures would be more engaging than this silly, disjointed addition to a never ending story.
I read this with my 6 year old son. I liked this book better than #5. Basically, I realize that I prefer the books that don't have interactions with people (especially when they speak modern English) because those are just too far-fetched to me. Still, all of the books are definitely appealing to little kids.
Per L: “I loved afternoon on the Amazon because when Jack and Annie said that they don’t like the animals in the water they said they were just regular and themselves and they were not being mean and I loved the crocodile, the fishes, the snake, and I liked how the monkey gave them the second thing”
I think everyone should have to read this book. If you don’t read the whole series. The ending really makes you think about things. As a kid it can be a good fable. I didn’t listen the meaning of this fable very well. Now reading this and being older there is such a huge message that this book is trying to teach and everyone should read it.
Of all the places for Jack and Annie to get lost and lose track of the treehouse, it just had to be the Amazon jungle! Osborne excites readers with the next thrilling entry to the beloved "Magic Tree House" series. Beware everything that moves in a landscape full of surprises, and you may just get out alive!
