https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582856.The_Cat_Who_Played_Brahms
Book Review  Another fun release in the "Cat Who" series by Lilian Jackson Braun with this fifth installment, The Cat Who Played Brahms. I gave this one a 4 of 5 start as it introduces us to Aunt Fanny, thus beginning the transition for Qwill from the big city to 400 miles north of everywhere. By now, you get the formula... you know who he is, but this one brings out his softer side when he delves deeper into retirement. Looking for relaxation, he stumbles into a mystery at the cabin and among
Book Review
You get to know several people who will be in future books, but you also get a sense of cats in the country!
Good writing (though basic).Just one of those fun things to read over 3 to 4 hours.
And in this one, you get the opportunity to learn a little more about classic music.
I'm game for the opera and theatre, and I do enjoy classical music, but I know very little.
So an education in the book was a nice thing too!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
When the building he’s living in (Maus Haus from the previous book) is sold and the residents given notice, Qwill decides it's the perfect time for a vacation.
Qwill is a city boy and everything about isolated Moose County seems strange, but before long he gets to know and appreciate the beauty of the area and the quirky, friendly locals.
This would be a huge blow to the citizens of Moose County, who for years have been promised funds from Aunt Fanny’s fortune for various community projects.Qwill is torn.
I don't know if it was just because I was on vacation while reading this or what, but I enjoyed this installment more than any of the others in the series so far.
As usual the story is full of quirky characters, some new and some old.
When the identity of the killer was revealed at the end, I was surprised.
For some reason Braun's books always end up surprising me at the end.
And the cliffhanger at the end was great!
Readers will have to pick up book six in the series to find out!
Meet Aunt Fannie here! A nice smooth pace and a plot with twists and turns. Qwilleran faces life changing decisions again.
It's interesting reading about the Michigan of years ago - by now, all of these little towns would be full of strip malls, the Dimsdale diner would be gonezo, people couldn't just "not print" stories about murders (someone would write a blog and then it would be on national TV), etc.
I like that in these earlier books Qwill seems a bit younger and there's a bit more of an edge to the stories, but they're still cozy and full of food and descriptions of interior decorating and cats sitting on moose heads.
Reading these books is always such a treat.
I'm only going to rate one of the books from 'the cat who' series because for the most part they are all equally excellent in my eyes and there are far too many of them to go through one by one.
The books are by and large a laid back, easy going, day to day approach to mystery solving.
It was actually shifted the series from the setting of the first books to a new one, but that plays only a minor part in why I liked it.
A detective series that features a crime-fighting Siamese cat must tread carefully. The author misses a step here as the light-hearted tone of the previous stories is gone, replaced with an overly convulted plot, an affable main character turned snobbish, and the cast of Deliverance (okay, maybe not that bad, but close).
I love Quill and his cats! This is where the inheritance started. He has a lot to learn about the town of Pickax!
This series is stupid and easy and doesn't require a ton of thought.
Another solid Cat Who - but not my personal favorite. With Qwill’s move to the country it took longer than usual for the mystery to really get going.
Very fun Cozy Mystery and an incredible cliffhanger!!!BUTYou must read the first four novels before this one to truly get the gist of the stories.
Koko also has a hard time getting Qwilleran to notice and interpret the clues he keeps trying to leave him.Dissatisfied with changes made at the newspaper where he works and the renovation of the Press Club, his favorite haunt, Qwilleran decides he needs a change and accepts an offer to spend the summer at his "Aunt" Fanny's summer cottage and write a novel.
The book ends with a cliffhanger - Qwilleran is deciding whether to return to the Daily Fluxion as the new investigative reporter or stay in Pickax City which he must do in order to inherit millions from Aunt Fanny.
Book #5 in this series has to be the best one yet!! It offered a break from the art-focused conversations from the previous 4 books in the series. I look forward to reading more!
Maybe it's just contrariness, but as much as I disliked the next book in the series, as much did I like this one.
If it hadn't been mooched I might have kept "Postoffice" because "Brahms" introduces characters I know will be killed or killers.ETA: this is another unfortunate similarity to M.C. Beaton, who also has her protagnists stagnate in non-relationships, but teasing even worse by breaking it up in each book again and again.
I will keep this one, though, it has too many funny or nice bits where Qwill is wrong.
It seemed rushed and lazy.Qwilleran was extremely unlikeable with his wannabe womanizing and his treating Tom like a servant.
There was no buildup or working anything out for yourself, it was more just waiting for the book to end.Also, poor Yumyum barely got a mention throughout the book.
I wanted to remind the arrogant protagonist that he had TWO cats, not just one!I disliked the ending leaving off the way it did.
This is not the type of series I read all at once, I like to intersperse other books between it, so now there's a cliffhanger!
However, the murder wasn't as interesting as other books.This had to be the first Cat Who book in the series that I noticed it's age!
Firstly, the romantic dynamic with Rosemary was pretty sexist and is absolutely a product of its time.
Secondly, the character development of Tom was extremely racist.
Tom is clearly a Black man who is mentally slow, a ex-felon, and works very hard to please his White master.
Gotta say it's pretty cringe-worthy.
The ending of the book was a treat though.
It was the first book that I felt ended on a semi-cling hanger.
In THE CAT WHO PLAYED BRAHMS, Qwilleran's new location and neighbors breathe the life that I missed in THE CAT WHO SAW RED.
Qwill, taking a summer's leave on the shore of the Great Lakes with his cats Koko and Yum Yum, immediately engages with his wealthy "Aunt" Fanny and the neighbors around his borrowed cabin in Mooseville.
While supposedly standing empty, the cabin seems to have been Crime Central, and now Qwill is in someone's way.
The ending leaves Qwill breathless with shock and totally indecisive, facing several new life possibilities.
It's no hardship to have to read the sequel to learn his choices.
Really cute. Of all the animal sleuths I've read this week, this has been my favorite.Some of the transitions are a little rough. This editor didn't believe in the "***" to separate jarring scene breaks, I reckon. If not for that and some of the dated sentiment (super sexist), it would be five stars.
Theres no country like the old countryAlways a treat to read, you get so sucked into the story, you don't realise how fantastical it all is until you finish the last page. I hate running out of book.
This is the book where Qwill moves to "Moose County", the place that becomes his home in future books. In this one he takes a cabin though he will move in later books, and again, gets involved in murder. Well, Qwill and the cats.
Comfortable and undemandingThe great thing about The Cat Who... books is that they are such easy reading. I turn to them when life gets complicated. This one lives up to expectations, and I like that it takes Qwill away from the city. I am re-reading them in order.
Love these booksI thoroughly enjoy the entire "The Cat Who..." series of books. Each one is better than the last. This is my third time through the books. Braun is a great weaver of words.
I have come to the conclusion that I just don't care for Jim Qwilleran.
The usual Braun offering, this title is just before the main character Qwilleran inherits his millions.
Though when he gets there, things start happening...
and people start turning up dead yet again.
Can Qwill and the cats catch the killer before they hit closer to home?The first book in the series to be set in the now-familiar environs of Moose County, The Cat Who Played Brahms offers up a decent mystery, as well as introduce some characters who would go on to become series mainstays.
Though, to be honest, it also introduces a question that lots of people might not think about: on one hand, you have your dream job.
As soon as you pick one, the other one becomes unobtainable.
This was my first The Cat Who ...
Quillweran uncovers some odd happenings in the rural community and soon finds himself in the middle of a murder investigation - three actually when all is said and done.
With his cats - Koko and Yum Yum - uncanny assistance, he answers a lot of questions for many townfolk.
That said, the book was well written.
It was a nice easy read in the middle of my hectic week!
A journalist owns two siamese cats.
The cats can pick up the phone and play records on a pick up.
The journalist has senseless conversations with the locals in a small northern community where he goes for a holiday.
Many conversations, they bore you stiff!
The mindless conversing goes on till page 74, when finally someone is murdered.
Not that I am bloodthirsty, but postponing a murder that long in a book that is only 192 pages long, is asking a lot from the reader, especially when neither the cats, the journalist nor the village idiots are interesting enough to keep one interested.
Is it just a case of summertime blues or a full-blown career crisis?
Newspaper reporter Jim Qwilleran isn't sure, but he's hoping a few days in the country will help him sort out his life.With cats Koko and Yum Yum for company, Qwilleran heads for a cabin owned by a long-time family friend, "Aunt Fanny." But from the moment he arrives, things turn strange.
And then while fishing, Qwilleran hooks onto a murder mystery.
Soon Qwilleran enters into a game of cat and mouse with the killer, while Koko develops a sudden and uncanny fondness for classical music...
Like all of Braun’s books in this series, it was mostly predictable with a few surprises mixed in.
A light read and the kind I like to have as an “in-between” to fill time when I have a few hours to read and want something fun and quick to read.
I have the entire series to read (passed down from a friend) so I’ll be on them for a while.
I enjoy the characters who connect the books, mostly Jim Qwilleron and the cats.
I’m a cat lover, which helps.
Nothing reaching the level of great literary classics here, but fun to read!
This story has Qwill heading out for a summer in the country with the just the cats and a typewriter to keep him company. His aunt, a woman who was a friend of his mother's not really a relative, has been trying to get him out to Pickax, county in the middle of nowhere. This summer he's going to do it. Besides, he hasn't seen Aunt Fanny for years.As soon as he gets there, things are amiss and KoKo doesn't waste any time letting Qwill know.Love these stories. They are a snack you can't put down.
