https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105974.In_Morocco
A very poignant story for me personally because it mirrors an event from earlier in my life, a choice, a path to choose or not to choose. As in Robert Frost's poem The Road Not Taken, two roads diverge, and we never know which to take, how things will turn out, only in the "long run".
I have been interested in this part of the world for some time...I have always been something of a romantic, devouring the works of Paul Bowles ,long time resident of Morocco..
The lush descriptions of the sights and sounds of Morocco were enticing, the historical detail absorbing, and in this respect I was not disappointed.However I was unable to completely enjoy this book because of my modern -day sensibilities jarring with the terminology and attitudes of the period in which this was written.
4 MAR 2016 - cover love! This is a better synopsis: In 1917, amid the turmoil of World War I, Edith Wharton, the author of The Age of Innocence and The House of Mirth, travelled to Morocco. A classic of travel writing, In Morocco is her account of this journey through the country's cities and through its deserts. Free download at Project Gutenberg - http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/111049 MAR 2016 - review pending.
I knew going into this book that Edith Wharton traveled to and wrote about Morocco during its French colonial period,after reading the book you learn that her entire trip was made possible by the French colonial government, so I was not expecting a nuanced account of life in Morocco, but I wanted to give her account and experience an open-mind.
Her experience in Morocco (though it is an important fact that this book is little more than a travel journal for a one month journey) is one that has been forever lost, mostly because of colonization and now neo-colonial tourism.
Some fascinating vignettes, especially her harem visits. Also interesting to see the colonial mindset of the period being reflected in real time, as it were. For each interesting detail, there is a political or racial view that will make the modern reader cringe. (Or I should say this modern reader - the truth is that Wharton's reductive view of the Islamic world is probably not that different than that held by many today). I read it in Morocco as we visited the same sites that Wharton saw a century before. Could not really recommend it unless under similar circumstances.
Edith Wharton wrote 22 novels, many groups of short stories, some poetry, and several works of non-fiction on interior design, architecture, and travel guide books.
In Morocco falls into the travel catagory as it documents her 1917 trip through parts of Morroco, traveling with a French General in a motorcar.
Edith Wharton's wonderful writing skill, and her ability to capture the finest detail, paint interesting and beautiful views of the ports and cities that she visited.
She focused her descriptions on the people, the architecture, and the history of each region.
Wharton's preference for French Colonial rule is obvious.
I won't lie to you. I didn't enjoy this. I feel like I was supposed to, but I didn't.Wharton's vocabulary and personal knowledge are positively overwhelming. It's actually ridiculous how much she casually knows about art, history, architecture, genealogy, culture, music, urban planning, religion. Her intense zeal and passion for travel and other cultures is apparent....but it's just not interesting to read about her experience. There are a lot of a adjectives and a lot of unexciting observations. Nothing like her fiction.

This is the true experiences of author Edith Wharton's expedition to French Morocco in the early days of WWI.
At the time, there was little travel to this country.Ms Wharton had an extraordinary view of Morocco.
He was the French Resident-General (head administrative honcho in Morocco).
He could have done more if France was not fighting the Germans in WWI.Do you remember reading Ethan Frome in school?
That was also written by Edith Wharton.
I wasn't a fan of Ethan Frome and it took me quite some time to feel at home reading this travelogue.
The first five chapters tell of the writer’s journey across Morocco in 1917.
Wharton describes, in beautiful prose, the towns and landscapes, the animals and plants, the men and women that she observes in a Morocco as yet untouched by tourism.
The souks are ‘mere mud lanes roofed with rushes’ It is here that the journey ends, but without a hint to the reader that this is so.
In the fifth chapter, the writer re-visits places on her journey, under the heading of “Harems and Ceremonies”.
It is the disjointed nature of the account which makes these five sections unsatisfactory for the reader.
So art school cliched, but it's good to establish at what precisely we're looking.
Wharton does this impeccably and in the process such observation is imbued with her own voice.
It seems like Wharton was one of the few women on the trip and her descriptions of not belonging with the wives of the officers, the harem girls, nor wholly the party itself are of particular interest.
Did it serve as a good reminder of how to write about these sorts of things and interesting window into Wharton's experience as well as a meta guidebook on guidebooks?
It was definitely interesting to read how different our impressions of the country were and how similar they were at the same time.
The flow in the book does seem off, as she doesn't really seem sure what she is trying to do here, claiming a more scholastic text in the introduction than actually comes out in the finished product.
So the descriptions of here travels often seem lost in her attempt to get a complete picture of the country across, and her historical parts seem too truncated.
Wharton makes her steady, stately way through Morocco, commenting on Roman ruins, chubby merchants on tiny donkeys, short or long trains of camels, veiled women, dark-eyed children darting through the plazas and bazaars--over bad roads, good roads, or no roads at all.
As long as she does all the work, I can't get tired of her remarks.
And since I've never been to Morocco, I'll never know if what she writes is at all like the real place.
And since she was there a hundred years ago (almost) it might all have changed since then anyway.
I'll go along for the ride.
This book was dryreading from a writer who I normally love. I know this book is a document of her travels rather than a fictional work, but I still expected a more interesting read.I gave it three stars, because it did still present a verbal snapshot of what the country of Morocco was like in the early 1900s along with a good historical background on the country.I was particularly intrigued (and saddened) to read how restricted the women were.
I had forgotten that Edith Wharton was an interior designer. The most interesting parts of this book describe her impressions of the Moroccan design aesthetic, in clothing, architecture furnishings, etc. her political and social "insights" are as poisonous as one might expect from a provincial white lady of great privilege in the early 20th century. The rest is blah. Blah.
I went. She forgot mention a few very important things.
I am planning to visit Morocco later this year, so was particularly excited to read Wharton's travelogue.
Her descriptions are lovely, and the sense of place is certainly the strength within In Morocco.
It is very of its time, as one might expect; there is little which is politically correct with regard to her descriptions of the Moroccan people.
The book does not always feel quite consistent, and whilst it is nicely written, it was not as interesting as I was expecting it to be.
It did tend to feel a little repetitive after a while.
While it claims to be the very first travel guide to Morocco, it more resembles a book-length justification for French colonial rule.
And I would hardly consider that enough for me to write a book about) in Morocco and was at all times under the watchful eye of French guides provided by the colonial government, seemed to engage in virtually no interaction with actual Moroccans and essentially gleefully repeated everything she was told by her hosts about the country.
And Wharton is normally exceptional at prose writing (I would put her with the all-time greats), but here her writing seem perfunctory and lifeless.So unless you're a professional apologist for colonial rule, I would suggest skipping this.
In Morocco is one of the most interesting books I have read in a while, a real hidden gem stumbled upon while browsing Wharton's works.
It has kind of a strange arrangement though...The first section was my favourite- dreamy poetic descriptions of cities and ruins with a few vague personal experiences.
Critics think this part show the most personal opinions.
What I think of as the third section is various background information, starting with recent history and politics, then ancient history, and finally art history.
Other than that it was a really lovely book, and I'm so glad I read it.
Edith Wharton_NEVER lets me down.This was one of the most descriptive books I've read in some time.H
This book was written over a hundred years ago, so it came to be a surprise that it was relatively correct as a guide for modern times.
I enjoyed the commentary on the customs and peoples that Ms. Wharton encounters on her voyage to a place 'that has no guidebook'.
She makes everything sound so exotic which was perfect for my own experiences in Morocco.
It is exotic.
Don't expect the same restaurants and hotels to be around, just like picking up an old guide from the 90's, but the people and the places remain the same.
++Free book for kindle.3 stars
I enjoyed the descriptions of Morocco, particularly the cities and the landscape generally. It was very atmospheric. Having been to Morocco a couple of times, reading this really took me back there, which was the main reason I enjoyed it.I gave it three stars because the attitudes to the people were really quite dated and on occasions I found it slightly uncomfortable to read. I know it was a long time ago, but compared to someone like Freya Stark, who travelled through Arabia only a couple of decades later, her attitudes to the Moroccans are really very arrogant and colonialist.
I am really enjoying Wharton's short stories. I remember finding the first novel of hers I read, The Age of Innocence, rather dull and stuffy. Ethan Frome, the second, was much better. This is slightly reminiscent of that short novel.I find it very interesting how both the characters in this are shown to be reduced by the experience they went through, despite the fact they did not even actually do anything improper.I recommend starting off with Wharton's short stories, before her novels, as the short stories showcase her wit much quicker.
Wharton is much more vivid in her detail in her descriptions in "In Morocco." Because her background knowledge is so much less than for her other, European, travel writing, she relies more on her descriptive powers, which are in abundance. Try to overlook the privilege that this woman is exerting by taking this trip: she is traveling via French military car during WWI escorted by a French General... who, later in life, would be a fascist sympathizer. But other than THAT, this is actually a really detailed and surprising account of her journey.
Lots of remarkable descriptions of Morocco as it was: Wharton's visit took place just after the French established their presence there, post World War I. Just be wary: her views and opinions are a reflection of the contemporary colonial mentality that prevailed at the time; she was an adamant supporter of French imperialism, in praise of their "civilizing" influence on the country. Nevertheless, her first-hand account of harems, the countryside and the sultan, etc., are insightful.
Wharton pays very close attention to the history of every place she visits, and recounts it here. While the stories she recounts are interesting, her travelogue comes across pretty dry. There were scant descriptions of people - just sweeping histories or observations of groups, but hardly any narratives of individual Moroccans , nor of herself or her travel companions. This was a pretty big letdown.
Considering the distance in time, this was a fascinating account of a wartime trip through Morocco. I was interested to find that things had not changed in some ways from 1918 to 1979 when I went there. We tend to think women of Wharton's era were ignorant or innocent, but Wharton was neither as her novels show, and she has convinced me to return in Morocco.
Really the first travel guide to Morocco. Beautiful descriptions of souks, buildings, and life in merchants' houses. Not much personal detail - a shame as this would have livened up the account even more. I was irritated by the uncritical account of the work of Lyautey, but then Edith Wharton couldn't know that he would end up admiring Mussolini.
Entertaining and highly descriptive, yet anachronistic. A good portrait of Morocco at the time. Lots of detail toward the end regarding the government and statistics...out of step with the rest of the book.
Probably not the most relevant research for my forth coming trip to Morocco, but it has made me more excited about the trip. The writing style was beautiful and highly descriptive, and has left me with an exotic impression of Morocco, but I'll have to see how it measures up.
