https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198783.They_Were_Strong_and_Good
This is a historical record and maybe it should be seen that way.
I feel like Robert Lawson is trying to prove that his family were good even through they were racists.
I know we can't chose our parents actions, but to me this book feels like he is defending them.I feel like books like this should be forgotten in the past.
There is no reason to keep these racists accounts around.
I think Caldecott should strike it from their records and let an honorable mention have the spot in history from now on.I did not let the kids read this one.
I'm trying to write an adequate review but for now I will just say that I found Lawson's story touching, fascinating and beautifully told and illustrated.
I could really feel the love and respect he had for his ancestors and he conveyed a great deal about their times and attitudes in just a few words and those remarkable illustrations.
Certainly it was difficult to read about Lawson's father having "two dogs and a colored boy" (*wince*) or and the illustration of the African-American housekeeper (I assume slave) chasing off the Native Americans was also rough to see.
But, I don't feel that Lawson mean this to *promote* racist attitudes.
I was horrified when I started reading this—the tacit approval of prejudice against Indians, the nonchalant references to slavery, its blasé understanding of the pilgrims and the pioneers—until I realized that it was written in 1940!
It’s amazing how our tastes develop over the years—I don’t think the illustrations would win the Caldecott in 2010, not because they aren’t good but because they aren’t innovative.
And how our understanding of history changes, too.
Of course, there are plenty of people today who still understand American history through that lens.
You just don’t often see it so blatantly presented in picture books.
It was written in 1940, so it's amazing to think that the story is more than 70 years old and yet still is as important as a historical account as it was then.
We really enjoyed reading this book together, especially since we attended a Civil War program at our local library the next day and many of the same topics were discussed.
This is the next to the last Caldecott Medal book for us to read until we are caught up with the list as it stands now.
They just don't make children's books like this anymore.
Sigh.A bunch of reviewers complained about the stereotypes and racism.
(See the book's Wikipedia entry for some specifics.) I supposed it's your prerogative to find such things offensive (e.g., the author explains that his mother, growing up in Minnesota, didn't like Indians, because they would come into her mother's kitchen and demand food and rub their stomachs until they got it).
But most of us, if we sat down and told the simplified but honest stories of our ancestors, would have to include a stereotype here and there, or a little racism.
I read this book to my son. I feel kind of bad for him.Not our favorite book.
Ok, so, the 8 year old niece actually really liked this book, which I was kind of surprised by.
And while she specified that we should give it a 5 star rating, I feel compelled to mention some rather serious issues I had with the book and consequently that I tried to address with my niece.
While reading the book and then after we were done, I mentioned some of what I saw as being the authors attitude towards the issue of slavery/race relations and Native Americans and explained alternative view points, as well as just whole concepts that the author left out entirely.
1. Children’s Book- Other2. This book reflects on the lives of Robert Lawson’s ancestors, throughout history, living in America. It shows them braving Carribbean storms, walking through the streets of New York, and fighting in the Civil War. 3. Critiquea. This book was a recipient of the Grand Caldecott award in 1941. The illustrations are clearly the most important element in this book, and they are beautiful and well done. b. Although I am not a huge fan of the story itself because it is rathe
The illustrations are clearly the most important element in this book, and they are beautiful and well done.
b.	Although I am not a huge fan of the story itself because it is rather outdated, it is important to acknowledge the importance of the illustrations, and the almost cartoon-like way in which they are portrayed.
These illustrations show the idea of other races at the time in intricate detail.4.
This book is by no means “politically correct”, but can provide a great insight for older students to describe how ideals of other races were viewed in the 1940’s, and how they have evolved.
I just have no words for this. Honestly, I know what time in history it was written but I was thoroughly disappointed that this is an award winning book.
Love, love, love Robert Lawson's illustrations and stories. This is one of his best.
And in the author's time, words like "Negro" were the words that people used.
When he describes his mother being frightened by the Indians who would come and sit on the family's kitchen floor, he wasn't commenting on who the Indians were as people at all--he was just stating what those particular Indians did, and that his mother didn't like them.
I can think of a few stories from my own family history that I probably wouldn't tell without making it clear that I didn't support the attitudes of that time.
The one part I did find amusing was where the text says that his Mother's Mother "did not like sailing on the sea" with a corresponding illustration of her backside as she is vomiting over the side of a the boat.Related material on Debbie Reese's blog:http://americanindiansinchildrenslite...
Problematic for racism against Native Americans and African Americans.I don't have a problem with books depicting racism because obviously racism exists and should be present in the stories we tell particularly about different time periods.
My problem with this book starts with the title: "They Were Strong and Good".
BUT, maybe don't state they were good right before you talk about their slaves.
Obviously they weren't that good, a lot of good people were opposed to slavery before it was illegal.
Maybe don't state that your relatives were good right before you state that they didn't like the starving natives whose farmland they basically helped steal.
They Were Strong and Good is a short narrative of genealogy, focusing on Lawson’s parents and grandparents, and how they came to be and met each other.
Using a traditional and realistic art style, Lawson uses ink to illustrate his family’s backstory and accomplishments.
This book depicts the lesser-known stories of those who helped create America, purposefully leaving figures such as presidents and generals to other authors.
Interestingly enough, Lawson also makes sure to illustrate and discuss enslaved people in his family’s stories, thereby including them in the narrative of America’s being.
It’s short, sweet, and informative.
Great for grades 2-4.Review cross-listed here!
I thought it was brilliant, and I loved the "I'm proud to be an American." aspect of it. The illustrations are stunning! I do get a little judgy about part of his family being on the wrong side of history. However, at the same time I'm glad he didn't smudge over it! AT ALL! It happened and we need to talk about it. I'm also happy he didn't call that person "Strong and good" when they were fighting for the wrong side.
1941 Caldecott Medal. I love this book. A great way to start talking about and be reminded of family roots.
Lawson tells the story of his parents and grandparents, and how they came to help shape the history of America.
Some of these illustrations are delightful – I liked the contrast between a “modern” city and the farm land that was just two generations previous, and laughed at the illustration of the aftermath when a parrot nearly devoured a Panama hat.
I also appreciate Lawson’s acknowledgment of oral story telling traditions, and of children listening and learning their own family histories from their elders.
But I just don’t like it.
My kids enjoyed this story and I liked the fact that it looked back to ancestors and gave short stories about how they ended up where they did to meet each other.
Then he talks about his parents' lives and how they came to meet and have him.Now, I'm sure many people lambast this book because it was written before the time of political correctness.
The judgements that were made and that I appreciated was that these people were strong and good.
They worked hard, had lots of children and helped to build America.Others might be upset that this simple black and white book won the Caldecott.
The 1941 Caldecott winner.
Even with these changes to the text, the accompanying drawings remain - a slave woman with bandana-wrapped head shooing Native Americans away with a broom; a young slave dressed in rags and carrying two dead animals while accompanying his white master on a hunt ("He was a slave, but they didn’t call him that.
You get a Caldecott winner apparently.If you do choose to push ahead and read this one to youngsters, be prepared to answer questions about slavery and race terminology.
Also, expect little ones to be uninspired by the black-and-white drawings.
Perhaps everyone should write their own version of this book about their ancestors who were "strong and good." (Of course some of us have ancestors who were NOT strong and good, but we can still focus on the ancestors who were.) I very much enjoyed the general message that it is good to learn about your ancestors and to tell their stories, even if they aren't famous.
Actually, particularly if they aren't famous.
It was interesting to me that one of the ancestors in the book fought in the Civil War on the side of the south.
He tells several stories about each of them, all trying to show that they were strong and good.
I know that many people will find these stories troublesome as they lived in a time of slavery and racist attitudes.
While I do not condone these attitudes...I find them abhorrent, I do believe a book written in the 30's about people who lived even earlier is likely to contain attitudes we would find disturbing today., I think they were widespread at the time and I still believe you could be strong and mostly good even if you held these attitudes.
I love the illustrations and how the author uses them to tell a story and not just reflect the text.
I love how proud he is of his ancestors and how sweetly that comes through.
But, then I couldn't help cringe when the fact that his mother did not like the Indians or his father owned a slave came across as natural or acceptable.
Anyways, it was an interesting read because there's a "cringe" factor and "feel good" material all in one.
I ended the book a little conflicted, really liking it and feeling guilty about it, crazy:)
I know that the book won a Caldecott but that was for the pictures. The pictures were good but sometimes missed the mark for the most interesting parts of the pages. The story was good of emotion for the most part. It relied heavily on the pictures. The narrator did not talk about how he formed his personal beliefs about G-d, Satan, Indians, the Civil War, slavery, hard work...
As someone who finds history & genealogy fascinating, I really wanted to love this book. As someone who thought Lawson's illustrations in Rabbit Hill & Wee Gillis were beautiful, I really wanted to love this book. I understand why people say "But it was the times!" Still, you know what? Nope. I just can't see any reason to share this one with kids.
One of my favorite Caldecotts.
4.5 stars. This made me think about my own family history and what kind of stories my relatives could tell.
Absolutely wonderful. How I love Robert Lawson (sigh).
Enjoyable on so many levels!! Loved the part about the slave friend!!
• 1941 Caldecott Winner •This is an awkward book to rate because of some of the language is rather racist, but when it was written in 1940, it was typical of the time (Lawson nonchalantly writes that his father had a slave and that his mother didn’t like Indians because they begged for food).
I like the drawings in this and this is one of the very few books without color art that I didn’t mind.
This is an interesting book as a historical artifact and I think this would be a good read for older children with some adult guidance regarding slavery, racism and the Civil War. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
As the story proceeds, the reader learns about a young man and woman who met and created the start to a tremendous family.
Throughout this book, the reader gets to learn about how some of the true American families came to be.
Ranging from the illustrations to the cultural references, the reader can easily tell how different society was back in the early 40s.
Although this book is simplistic, with the basic font, one paged illustrations, and black and white coloring, it gives a great example as to what classic American life was like.
