https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323929.High_Lonesome
As I've said before, westerns are not my favorite genre, not even close.
But I still try to stretch myself by reading things that I may not normally choose.
Such is the case with this one.
And I didn't like it.
The story was very elementary, too simple, really, which is probably why I don't like this genre.
It's too simple.
Give me complexity and twists.
I listened to the Audible version narrated by David Strathairn.
He's an outstanding actor, but his droning voice did nothing to capture my attention.
This is one case in which I probably would have liked the printed version better.
The description of the book makes it sound more epic than what it is. After Hondo  this came off as more formulaic and the characters were more shallow. It's also quite a bit shorter, so no surprise there! Still, it was a solid story of an outlaw with a heart of gold, Apache attacks, and a pretty girl. L'Amour's prose was still simple and yet very poetic. I can't put my finger on it. A pleasant way to spend the day while sewing. Strathairn's narration was again terrific, especially his accents. No  Slavic-sounding Mexicans, so that was a relief!
My favorite thing about this book was the prose and a bit of the dialogue. I like how conversations just start, are short, but tell you a lot. The real thrill is when you get about a page of prose, perhaps describing the country, the Indians, or just the outlaw's way of life. I did find myself wandering in thought on this one, sometimes losing my place as I forgot what I read. Besides that, this is a pretty solid western, a short read you can do in a day if you want to.
This is the story of Considine, an outlaw who is going with his gang for one big score and then off to Mexico.
Along the way, they run into a retired outlaw and his daughter.
After the robbery, the gang heads for Mexico.
And the book was only 150 pages, so the repetitiveness was very apparent.Considine spent A LOT of time thinking about the girl which would have been okay except he didn't have a lot of thoughts about her so he just kept thinking the same ones over and over.
A western that is all a Western is supposed to be. Outlaws who are good guys, bank robbery and of course a girl. And did I mention a stand off with the Indians where three of the outlaws are killed?I liked the descriptions of the American desert and the countryside.
Entertaining! Louis L'Amour writes riveting western action.
Very Good!
This is 90 percent straight-up action and still manages to pack in plenty of life-choice situations for this band of (mostly) bad guys.
“High Lonesome” is about last chances, big choices and dreams.
Even bad guys have dreams and Considine’s hopes are clear.
He even wants to rob the bank in Obaro with his way.
He would like to rob the bank of Obaro to get the money and to taunt them, but he wanted no killing.
It requires only the observant and understanding eye to read what the trail can show.” That’s about as good a summary as any.
I grew up hearing my dad mention Louis L'Amour on several occasions, branding him one of the best authors of western frontier fiction that ever lived.
Brilliant!From bad guys that have a glimmer of hope in changing their law breaking ways, to old friends honoring one another despite the different paths their lives have taken, to a father wanting nothing but the best for his young daughter as he contemplates what her life will be like when he's gone, HIGH LONESOME was a great, short ride and will certainly not be the last Louis L'Amour book that I read.
The sheriff of this town used to be the protagonist's best bud, who is also a good dude.
On the way they meet a former criminal (also a good dude) and his babe of a daughter, who are going to Cal-i-forn-i-a.
So the protagonist has to decide if he wants to flee with the money from the town or help this young woman, because it's clear that since he's a bad/good dude she is totally in love with him at first sight.
I think this book's problem is that it always wants it both ways.
A very popular title for tales of the old west, this one by Louis L’Amour.
Settlement of the Western territories often preceeded government or any form of law and order.
The law of the gun and the quick draw were the only enforcers and settlements were often controlled by rustlers hence bandits could count on the fact that no jury of their peers would find them guilty.
The quartet who range the high country in this story are bank robbers.
A L’Amour Western always has a love interest and this one is no different.
The high desert holds dangers all its own.
2.5 I hadn’t read any westerns before and chose this one because it was available from Overdrive. I have some L’Amour books in my classroom library, so when I saw the read harder challenge I thought I should pick one of his. This book was short and pretty underwhelming. It was predictable with superficial characters. It even had some insta-love. I did like some of the writing, particularly the descriptions of the desert. It was ok, but not for me.
I have been reading some western in between the other genres I enjoy to try them on for size. I have been thoroughly enjoying those by William Johnstone and thought I'd give the famous Louis L'Amour a chance. L'Amour's 'High Lonesome' is a simple story of cowboys and Indians with a semi romance thrown in for good measure.
I actually really enjoyed this one by L'Amour. His stories are sometimes a little to simple and not quite my thing. However, this one I pretty much read from beginning to end without putting it down. Great story and worth a read for any western lover. Im glad I keep reading L'Amours books. The first few I read weren't great but that latest few have been really good.
I enjoy a good Western tale, but I don't read a lot of them. This has everything a good Western should have, including a blurred line between good guys and bad guys. In the 21st century we will never really know how difficult a life this was for anyone, women and Native Americans especially. L'Amour doesn't clear that up for us, but he writes a good tale with plenty of action.
I love Westerns, and this one is excellent. You've got all the elements; an outlaw trying for one last score so he can leave the world of danger and thievery behind, lost love, friends turned to enemies, impossible odds, a chance at redemption, fights, chases, and last stands.L'Amour was a master of the genre. This book proves that title was not unwarranted.
An Outlaw with a heart of gold leads a gang as they rob a bank in his old hometown. High Lonesome was a fun adventure, but the love element that the whole book revolves around seemed forced. It was still an enjoyable read, but the characters falling in love after only meeting once seemed a stretch.
Louis L'Amour is always the same, a great read if you like westerns. For me they are getting few and far between, so this was a treat.
LL at his bestGreat story, definitely Mr L'Amour's writing. Readers will enjoy the story right up through the last word. Was sorry to have it end.
Good review of a story of a good man making bad decisions, and turning his life around again.
Pretty good as westerns go.
Engaging storytelling!
Great!Love the book and the action. Nonstop!Its truly a must read for everyone. The last chapter is my favorite.
A Typical Western
All written, interesting, action packed western. The book was somewhat short, it was fast paced, descriptive and well thought out. Enjoyed it very much. It is one of those classic style westerns.
Great read Louis L'Amour has always been my Favorite Western Author
Another Hopalong Cassidy. I can see why he was a favorite character that lasted.
You know I’m a sucker for a good western......and this fits the bill. A guy on the wrong side of the law considers one last bank robbery before settling down with the woman he loves. Good read.
Great story of redemption.
Quick read. There is nothing extraordinary about this typical “Western” story. Nothing bad about it either. Simple plot – bad guy seeks revenge; bad guy meets girl; girl falls for bad guy and vice versa; bad guy goes good; marauding Indians everywhere. My only criticism about the novel is that the “girl falls for bad guy and vice versa” element of the plot is extremely shallow and, consequently, somewhat unbelievable.
