https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293629.Black_Jack
Black Jack is a grand western adventure story told by a masterful story teller Max Brand. I shall give a more detailed review tomorrow.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Elizabeth Cornish takes an orphaned baby under her wing and vows to her brother Vince that she would make a good and decent man out of this boy with an outlaw father.
Vince Cornish, out of fear of losing the vast wealth his sister had acquired to Terry, he thought up and executed a plan to undermine the sister/boy relationship.
The question of inherent good and/or evil plays a pivotal role in this story.
I enjoyed the story as a whole but found some of the scenes absurdly naïve (but this was a general trend of the times).
He grabbed the arm of Elizabeth....) I kept revising the sentences in my head as I listened.
But when Igot to the end and heard the publication date it made that style acceptable.
(Another drawback to audiobooks is that with my setup it is impossible to tell how much story there is to go.) I kept thinking maybe Terry was going to end up going bad.
I would have liked to hear how Vance got his, but then again I could just imagine his fate.
I imagine she was quite a character for 1920s fiction - I thought she was a fine modern strong woman.
As always, an excellent Western by Max Brand. It was a bit slow in the beginning, but then it picked up. The subject in this book is a bit different and the hero of the book is almost going bad.
This book annoyed me; it was so different from any Max Brand book I had read before.
In the first three chapters, I almost put the book aside, because the story seemed obvious, but it turned out that I was wrong, and the book took some twists and turns I hadn't expected, but it kept leading me back to my initial assessment.
The protagonist was so good and so intent on being good that I didn't feel the empathy I normally have for Brand's heroes.The story was interesting and well told, and, although I found it somewhat unsettling to read, I couldn't put it down.
A masterpiece!!!!This is the first Max Brand book I have read. Thoroughly enjoyed this book. Had a happy ending. I highly enjoyed this book.
Pulp western, moves along quickly. Yep, there is a bad guy to hate throughout the book. Ending wasn't a surprise, but how it got there was different.
A Great Western Audio by Max Brand
Now this is a Western, better than any western movie I ever saw, and this one is a good novel, right and tough, with feeling.
I have to admit I had a lot of tension in reading this book, because the main character was very likable at first, winning me over right from the start, but then he started making some very poor decisions that really bothered me. Good Western saga. First published in 1922. I listened to this novel as a free download from LibriVox.org by an excellent reader.
Two stories in oneFirst there is a very fine Western about the son of a murdered bad guy who is raised as a fine gentleman. The story is about a bet between sister and brother whether genetics is stronger and the child will turn bad like his father or environment shall prove stronger and the child will become an outstanding citizen.The second story leads two young Western men, thrown together by circumstances, to New York City where they encounter a crime boss and his minions while trying to rescue to damsels in distress.Both are fine Western stories and worthy reading.
Faust was an amazing author that wrote over 500 books back in the days of typewriters.
Many of his books could have been listed at my favorites, not that I've read them all.
It is estimated that Faust wrote approximately thirty million words in his lifetime, writing under nineteen different pen names.
Unfortunately he was killed in Italy as a war correspondent during World War II, otherwise I'm sure he would have written over 1,000 books.
Throughout his life he suffered from chronic heart problems but that didn't become an excuse for him to stop writing.
I read this because it was a freebie through the Gutenberg project. It is not great, but is a decent, lightweight read. The central question seems to be the age old nature vs nurture question. Several of the characters are thoroughly unlikable, but others are shades of grey. All in all, it was nice to read while the tv was on - not demanding and entertaining.
Good read. It kept me interested. It delved into "The sins of the Father" issue. I downloaded it from the Nook store. $2.99 for 50 classic western novels. Should keep me busy for the summe!
Nice WesternI grew up with my grandfather and my mom reading. They were into Zane Gray, Max Brand and a few others. I have read this book before but one can always read it again.
WESTERNJim read this on 5-19-16 and rated it 4.7 stars.
it was alright. the ending was pretty anticlimactic. i listened to this as an audiobook while working, it was good for that purpose.
I really liked the concept (kind of a Pygmalian in the Wild Wild West).It kept me wanting to turn the page to see how things would turn out.
