https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135229.Saint_Joan_of_Arc
This is a sympathetic and well-written account, though occasionally more opinionated and less objective than I'd like. However, I've read several reviews which point out misrepresentations and mistakes in Sackville-West's citing of the evidence. I think I'd like to read Marina Warner's book on Joan of Arc, which seems generally better reviewed.
A well thought out biography of a mysterious figure in history. Joan of Arc is half religious figure, half historical personality. When writing such a biography it is difficult for an author to walk the line between stating purely factual information and not offending those who view the figure in religious terms. The author states both cases by discussing her miracles and offering plausible but difficult to prove theories on how those miracles could have been performed in more secular terms.
I found this book interesting, but not compelling. I learned more of Joan's life, but found the writing laborous and rather dull.
Sackville-West leaves open the question of whether Joan was a saint, but there is no doubt she was an amazing woman, who was able to move men, kings, armies and whole nations to her will when she was just 17.
She states that she knew nothing of his garments, the judge then asked, "Was he naked?" Her reply, "Do you think our Lord has nothing to dress him in?" Next question, "Had he any hair?" Answer, "Why should it have been cut off?"This book was written in the 1930s, so of course there is later scholarship that may disagree with some of her comments and conclusions.
I also love the writing of Sackville-West who employs incredible humor, insight and personal opinion into her books, daring to reveal her own thoughts and conclusions.
She also provided a wonderfully descriptive historical setting for Joan's life, which was not easy to do given the complexity of the 1400's in mainly France and England.The book also raises lots of questions about religion, spirituality, God, the saints, prayer and receiving guidance and direction from those who have gone before us.
I used my highlighter throughout the whole book, with great intentions of going back to sort through it all one more time.
Although this book has a lively writing style, historians have criticized it for its many erroneous claims, especially the implication that Joan of Arc was a lesbian and the explicit claim that she had an "unattractive", mannish appearance. Both of these claims have been debunked thoroughly by historians. Wikipedia has a good summary at: St. Joan of Arc by Sackville-West
Vita Sackville-West's scholarship is extensive and presented joyfully--although it's been challenged by later scholars--but the greatest value I took from this book was her application of the novelist's aptitude for character to Joan, whose character was in many ways the great miracle. Also, Sackville-West's prose is delicious.
An interesting a well written biography with a good amount of background information about the political climate of the time. I enjoyed reading it and keep it on my shelf, so I will likely reread it at some point.
Biography. Vita Sackville West unabashedly moons over Joan of Arc in this biography, but the book is a fun, easy, reverent read for those interested in a breezy Joan bio. Brush up on your French before reading it, as the author sprinkles her writing with untranslated French passages.
A very strange take on St. Joan
Mentioned in The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women by Harriet Rubin.
944.02609 S1219 2001
Fascinating and beautiful. I will re-read this at some point.
The result is pure gold."I don't dispute that Vita Sackville-West is an accomplished writer, showing more "style" than any of the other authors I have read on Joan of Arc. Problematically, however, she writes from the perspective of the English only, thus "refining away the sentimentality." While this may be natural, the author can be quite cutting in her appraisal of Joan, discounting all of the miracles and plainly making fun of some of the claims.
Myers himself wrote about Joan of Arc. In the end, Vita Sackville-West professes a believe in "one comprehensive, stupendous unity of which we apprehend but the smallest segment.
Jeanne d'Arc emerges as a vivid and courageous character in Sackville-West's thoughtful biography.
Sackville-West sifts through the historical sources to give us a balanced and thorough account of Jeanne's life, from her birth to her death following her excommunication.
This is a dense biography, but Sackville-West's prose is skillful and readable, and she presents the facts clearly, allowing a portrait of Jeanne to emerge.
I have always been fascinated by Jeanne d'Arc's bright, uncompromising life and terrible death, and her powerful personality shines in Sackville-West's accomplished biography.
The author, V.
Sackville-West is obviously fascinated by the saint and her short life.
19 years between birth and a horrible death (burned as heretic).
Some effort was made to “set the background” of France at the time (The Hundred Years’ War and the confusing multiple claims to kingship).
But his time and effort were justifiably short and inadequate.As saints go, Joan unique.
No “softness “or overt “piety” thru her short life or since her Canonization some 489 years after her death.
The Patron Saint of France seems to intrigue the English as she does the French.
A truly remarkable, and dramatic rendering of an enigmatic saint. Regine Pernod may capture the details of Jeanne's remarkable career with his beloved and really French biography, but Vita West brings Jeanne de Arc to life with candor and a respect for Jeanne's devotion.
