https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9806.Our_Ancestors
My favourite story in this collection is The Baron in the Trees which is a wonderful fairy tale about a kid who wouldn't finish his dinner, decides to live in a tree, and crosses Europe from Italy to southern Spain without once touching the ground.
It is a beautiful, masterful tale that reminds us how man in the last 6 or 7 centuries has destroyed many of the forests and natural diversity that existed on the Mediterranean coast in the middle ages.
This collection of three Calvino stories features partial people, an empty suit of armour, a half man, chopped in half by a war would and a baron who doesn't have his feet on the ground.Apparently then we are in the world of fables, are they critical views of our heroic past?
And are we being brought to perceive of the Rococo and Enlightenment as periods when people had their heads in the clouds and couldn't keep their feet on the ground?
and all this for ideals which I shall never, perhaps, be able to explain fully to myself...“„I too,“ replied Cosimo, „have lived many years for ideals which I would never be able to explain to myself; but I do something entirely good; I live on trees.“Čudno je reći za Kalvinov roman da je „običan“ ili (relativno; ipak je osnova narative o klicnu koji odbije da večera i ode da živi u krošnjama do kraja života) normalan, ali ovaj to jeste, bez obzira na ekcentričnost priče – ali je i lep, nežan, miran, i iako na kraju malo otaljan, celovit.Nepostojeći Vitez (5) ja baš ono što mi je trebalo od Kalvina – zabavan, mojtipantonovski viteški roman/novela.
I toliko mi je žao što nije duži, ali i ovako je izrazito simpatičan i drag.Za mene, Kalvino ne zna za poraz – ovo je još jedna prilično ubedljiva knjiga, ali nažalost i još jedna manje njegove bibliografije koja mi ostaje.
This volume pulls together two novellas and one novel written across the length of the 1950s by Italo Calvino as partial pastiches of past literature, all with an implied commentary about the position of the intellectual in post-war Italy.
This means that the works are (mostly) enjoyable but also rather shallow, a case of educated bourgeois knowingly speaking unto educated bourgeois.For all the claims Calvino was to make about abstracting the authentic vision of the common man from traditional literature (exemplified by his remarkable knowledge of folk tales), his work requires a fair amount of education to appreciate fully.
Calvino is probably my favourite writer.
His books are as varied and beautiful as it is possible to be.
These are a fascinating series of stories, almost stories for young adults, but also allegories on a world divided into East and West.My favourite of these stories is Baron in the Trees.
The tale of a young man who fights with his family, storms out of the house in a fit of fury and climbs a tree saying he will never come down - and never does.
Unlike many of Calvino's other books this is straight narrative and wonderful story telling by a master story teller.
Not only does the story explore the lost landscape of Ligurian Italy-as Calvino said most Italian Literature is regional by nature and Calvino is able to recreate the Baron’s arboreal kingdom wonderfully well, but it also expands the ideas in ‘The Cloven Viscount’ on nature of the self, but also of individuality and the importance of living life against ones own principles and ideals and not bowing down to societal norms and pressures.
Los temas...miles: metaliterarios; el ser humano en conjunción con la naturaleza (aquí surgen las metáforas y símiles más hermosos que haya leído); el amor; la enajenación; el dilema por la libertad individual o en sociedad [¿se dice así?]; la existencia del mundo; la percepción que tiene el hombre de él.
Υπέροχο, γεμάτο φαντασία, ξεχνιέσαι!
Uno più bello dell'altro, anche se a me ha colpito "Il cavaliere inesistente".
İtalo Calvino’nun 1960 yılında yazdığı sonsöz(?) ile birlikte Vikont, Baron ve Şövalye ile tanışmış oldum. Okurun yolculuğu “okuma” eylemi devam ettiği için sonsöz henüz okur için söylenmedi:)....Sıradan Asyalı bir kadın olarak - ünvansız- şunu açık ve net olarak söyleyebilirim ki kitap farkındalığa yol açıyor!
This book contains three fairy tales/folk tales/moral tales (or may be folk novellas).
In a simple fairy tale the history of Italy and Europe with emphasis on French revolution and the Muslim occupation of Spain, the philosophical opinions (Communism and feudalism) and psychological insights and many other reflections on human nature and history are all splattered.
In fact, they are part of the story and a knowledge of it would lend the reader a different reading.
If a reader is happy enough only to pass the time by reading a book, these would serve as simple fairy tales.Calvino was truly a story teller.
Mas por mais que se dedicasse, de alma e coração, a organizar uma nova sociedade, estabelecendo-lhe meticulosamente os estatutos, a finalidade, e escolhendo com cuidado os homens mais dotados e capazes para desempenhar todos os cargos, nunca os seus companheiros sabiam, contudo, até que ponto podiam contar com ele, quando, como e onde poderiam encontrá-lo ou quando ele, imprevisivelmente, se sentiria preso pela sua natureza de pássaro livre e não se deixaria mais apanhar por ninguém.”O Barão Trepador apresenta-nos o jovem Cósimo que decide voluntariamente viver sobre as árvores.
Uno dei primi libri importanti che ho letto in vita mia. Splendidi tutti e 3 i racconti, con Il barone rampante forse in cima al podio.Devo rileggerlo, un giorno o l'altro...
This is my favourite work of fiction ever.
In a sense it is cheating for me to say this because there are actually three novels here presented between covers as a single book.
This work is a trilogy that isn't really a trilogy.
The three novels are related to each other, yes, but not by plot, characters, location or even mood, only by the fact that they each seek to play with the profound truths that stem from a single incident or situation or conceit.There is so much richness in this volume that the spirit of much of modern literature could probably be reconstructed from it if all other books were destroyed in some improbable disaster.
I love this book.
It is a symbolic story in wich the principal character has had divided in two parts. A good and a bad than constantly are fighting for their own interests. And it was until the end that they had an agreement. In my opinion, all of us have a good and a bad personality inside us. In many ocations we have to mediate between both of them. But that is our human escence and that makes us unique.
La obra plantea un mundo único, con personajes excéntricos y sumamente divertidos, situaciones que se mueven entre lo cómico, lo trágico y lo absurdo, descripciones tan realistas e imposibles a la vez que demuestran la originalidad única que habita en la punta de la pluma del autor; todo esto con un marcado estilo que, semejando al Vizconde y sus dos mitades, es una armónica unión entre el realismo mágico y el género fantástico.Un hombre toma una decisión difícil, poco cómoda, que contradice todas las reglas y los modos de los tiempos en los que vive, y con gran autodeterminación la cumple por el resto de su vida: de eso se trata, a grandes rasgos y en principio, "El barón rampante" de Italo Calvino.
I read 'the baron in the trees' as an adventure story about forming an own 'self' by rebelling against what is expected and also about the difficulties which flow from making your own, critical decisions.'The non-existent knight was my favourite, a parody and critique on medieval knightly stories used as a way to question what it means to exist.
Il visconte dimezzatoEra da tantissimo che volevo leggere questa famosissima “trilogia” di Calvino!
Bello, indubbiamente, ma non bellissimo come immaginavo.
Non so, forse mi aspettavo troppo, o ho aspettato troppo per leggerlo, fatto sta che non sono riuscita a dargli le 5 stelline.
Ma quattro sono fuor di dubbio, perché è veramente un bel libro!
:)http://www.naufragio.it/iltempodilegg...Il barone rampanteSecondo capitolo della trilogia degli antenati, ennesima conferma della grandiosità di Calvino!Lo STILE di Calvino è semlicemente perfetto!
Il suo modo di giocare con le parole, certe uscite imprevedibili, l’ironia, la caratterizzazione dei personaggi… è geniale, non c’è altro da dire!
Se non lo avete ancora fatto, leggetelo!http://www.naufragio.it/iltempodilegg...
One of the best books I've ever read for the beauty of its language and the creativity of the stories.
I am lucky that I could read it in the original.
I do not know how the translations fare.
The three stories are all narrated from an external point of view, but by somebody who was a direct witness of the fantastic events.
In all three, but particularly in the last story of the "Non-existent knight" whose existence is defined by his armor and missions, one can always glance the troubles and dangers of trying to know one-self.
Beautiful, funny, imaginative.
C'è forse un'altra valutazione possibile se non le cinque stelle per la trilogia araldica?Da bambina, avrò avuto 11-12 anni, cercai di leggere il barone rampante, ma lo piantai dopo 10 pagine.Per troppi anni lasciai perdere Calvino e la sua trilogia.E così la ripresi in mano solo 10 anni dopo, per (ri)scoprirne la potenza. Ma ancora ci sono parti che riescono a sorprendermi, come quando sentii la lettura de Il Cavaliere inesistente (quello che avevo sottovalutato) su Radio3 e mi affascinò come se non l'avessi mai letto.Calvino è un mago.
I often used to think that the postmodernist Calvino is the one with the magic ink. But This book has performed a certain metamorphosis on my thoughts. To be honest, Cosmicomics and this book together establishes Calvino as the invincible fabulist. I cannot remember a writer of modern era telling such deceptively simple tales to mystify generations of fable-readers.
Loved all three stories, read a few books by Calvino and like his style. His tales are full of amazing characters such as the knight who isn't there, the baron who lives in the trees and a group of spanish exiles.
for war can be well fought where there’s a glimpse of a woman’s mouth between lance points, when nothing, wounds, dust, horses’ stink, means anything, but that smile.
DA FINIRE.Manca Il cavaliere inesistente
The first two take place in Liguria, all three have themes related to fighting the Turks and they succeed in being what Calvino describes in the introduction as "the book I myself would have liked to read, the sort by an unknown writer, from another age and another country, discovered in an attic." He succeeds in summing up this feel very well by having each story told by a first person protagonist who is a minor character.
Това съм си наумил и точка, няма какво да ви обяснявам.Таткото на Памела мъкнел към маслобойната чувал с маслини от своето дръвче, но чувалът бил продупчен и следа от маслини се проточила след него по пътеката.Като усетил, че товарът му олеква, таткото свалил чувала от гърба си и забелязал, че е почти изпразнен.
Ще дойда в замъка и ще стана виконтеса.Гадника не очаквал подобен развой и си помислил:„Тогава няма смисъл от целия театър с венчавката за другата ми половина – женя се аз за нея и готово.” И рекъл:– Нищо против.А Памела отвърнала:– Разберете се с баща ми.Недълго след това Памела намерила Добряка на неговото муле.– Медардо – заговорила го, – осъзнах, че съм дълбоко влюбена в теб.
Selon "1001 books you have to read before you die" la trilogie bizarre et surréaliste de Calvino est un eufemisme pour respectivement la guerre froide (the cloven viscount), les lumières (Baron in the trees) et la bureaucratie anti-humaine (the non-existent knight).
Cela demontre que la fiction est parfois la meilleure facon de déborder des thèmes philosophiques et difficiles, car cela permet d'aborder le sujet d'une facon plus libre et de cette manière de s'approcher de la vérité (si elle existe!) comparé une thèse ou un simple critique littéraire.
Que Calvino a raté le prix Nobel reste un mystère, mais nous les lecteurs ne devraient pas reater ses oeuvres - ils restent fantastiques et ne cessent de nous surprendre.
Prosa yang asyik dan indah. Terkandung 3 novela; Belahan Mendua, Bertakhta di Pohon dan Kesatria yang Tidak Wujud yang dihimpun sebagai Warisan Kami. Paling saya suka adalah Bertakhta di Pohon (versi terjemahan 350+ ms) mengenai Baron Cosimo yang naik radang pada suatu hari atas faktor2 sekeliling lalu memutuskan dengan tekad tertinggi untuk tinggal di atas pokok sepanjang hayatnya. Belahan Mendua pula tentang Viscount Medardo yang terbelah dua dek meriam askar Turki. Manakala Kesatria Agilulf pula tidak wujud tapi punya matlamat yang penghujungnya kabur.Sememangnya cerita yang indah dan dijalin dengan baik oleh Italo Calvino.
Yo veo que las obras de Calvino pueden resultar interesantes en cierto modo, porque más que nada son una reflexión acerca de la literatura y de la vida, pero precisamente porque pretenden ser una reflexión me parecen aburridas de leer, aunque reconozco que es divertido hasta cierto punto analizarlas y comentarlas.
La mejor, de lejos, es 'El caballero inexistente', porque es la más divertida y los giros de la trama son tan inverosímiles y patilleros que casi parece una parodia (una parodia de Calvino, probablemente).
El caballero inexistente en cuestión no es nada más que alguien que existe, porque tiene un nombre y una armadura, pero la armadura está vacía.
This is a wholly bizarre and unusual book - by turns magical, humorous, historical, fantasy, fairy tale, medieval, realist...Calvino definitely had his own take on life.
There's one surreal part where Cosimo, the hero, encounters some aristocratic refugees from Spain who also inhabit trees, but in their case still maintaining the trappings of courtly life.
Unfortunately the knight is prone to being pedantic and a bit of a jobs-worth, which irritates the other knights (they don't seem to mind the fact he doesn't exist!)I think you can safely say that Cavello wins the prize for originality and sheer balminess, but nothing wrong in being balmy, particularly when it’s as elegantly written as this.
