https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99089.La_B_tarde
Leduc herself writes that she told her schoolmates “I said I shall be the anvil on which I forge my own sorrow.” They replied “Violette Leduc is nuts.” Another time Leduc writes “I missed the poverty and the nullity of my life in Paris.”The story is essentially in three parts: her childhood in a small French village in the early 1900’s; then her coming of age as a young woman on the Paris literary scene, and finally World War II when she and her Jewish gay male lover (they had a 9-year on- and off-again relationship) hide out in a rural village from the Nazis.
For a long time this was my favorite book.
When a friend heard that, she gave me a copy she'd found in a 2nd hand shop, and then a year later, forgetting that she'd already done so, made me a second gift of the book (she's very thoughtful).
I now own three different editions, neither of which is the one pictured here, a newer one by Dalkey Archive.
I remember strongly recommending this autobiography to a new writer-friend in 1986; she started it and found it too slow-going.
LeDuc is ever the intense writer.
I still remember her describing herself as a wilted lettuce leaf...
This book had an incredibly powerful tractor beam/lesbian Death Star effect on me in my mid-20's. Literary self destruction at its best. All of you sexually confused goth girls: put down your razors and pick up La Batarde.
Violette LeDuc is needy and she knows it.
She stages suicides.
She delights when her big nose halts elevator eyes.
She’s prone to romantic friendships and poor boundaries; as a result she’s always unhinged.
I particularly love her in obsessive-romantic mode; she records her hard falls for brutes, sycophants and gay-identified father figures in painstaking detail.
I imagine she was an undertow in real life, but in print she’s glamour and genius.
LeDuc's prose is consistently amazing.
Observe: “Judge me.
I could have taken him to some disused barn.
I discovered this author recently through the film Violette by Martin Provost.
Violette Leduc, at the age of 57, enjoyed a short-lived literary success with La Batârde.
Her previous books did not sell, despite the critical esteem of Simone de Beauvoir, Camus, Sartre, Jean Genet...
To read Violette Leduc is to share her emotional torment.
It’s an intense read, infuriating at times, (when she so clearly sabotages herself) but absolutely fascinating.
Provost’s film focused on her friendship with Simone de Beauvoir in the post-war years described in the second installment of her autobiography La Folie en tête —I can’t wait to read it.
Leduc refuses to stoop to pander to panting hearts - she simply gives you words of poetry to describe her ugliness, her love affairs, small joys and solitude.
And yet, she is not all poetry.
Yet this woman must have had charisma, for designers gave her clothing to wear and show off on the streets.
A contradiction, this woman was, and this quality of hers is very much shown to the reader in her autobiography.
Wore on me after awhile.
Imagine the most irritating, self-absorbed person you have ever met, who has minimal self-discipline, but who also happens to be a beautiful writer.
On one page she writes about the pleasures of eating an endive cooked in cream.
On another page she writes a really miserable self-destructive dialogue with some horrible man who doesn't love her, and twenty pages later, she's still going at it.
Welcome to almost 500 pages of this stuff.
Liked the obsessive vignettes about buying dresses at Schiaparelli though, later running around Paris with a suitcase full of black market meat, and of course the publishing stuff.
Well written, but too indulgent. It's like being in a relationship that you can't get out of until the bitter end. I felt this after reading 187 pages of the 400+ pages.
In this current climate obsessed with personal narrative essays and bildungsromans—I'm thinking of Knausgaard, Ferrante, etc.—it is Leduc that everyone should be turning back to with awe and adoration.
This autobiography, self-portrait, novel looks back at Proust with affection, looks sideways to Sarraute and Robbe-Grillet with nods of appreciation, looks always at its creator with vicious scrutiny as she traverses through childhood to womanhood, through war and loss and a rich sexual awakening that, just like Leduc's narrative, is not here completed.
A masterpiece.
Sarte, de Beauvoir, Genet, Camus, and Cocteau were all right: Leduc's prose is of the highest order.
There are moments of brilliant writing in this, but much of it is so buried in the writer's obsession with herself that it makes the book quite a slog at times.
Often I just wanted to slap her and tell her to stop bitching.
Also, this is the only memoir I've ever read where the writer skips over scenes by telling the reader she's already written about those events in previous memoirs.
I guess for the ideal Violette Leduc experience, one should surround oneself with all of her books and breathlessly switch back and forth between them for all the juicy details.
"Oh, Violette Leduc" is now my inner monologue refrain for making terrible decisions with complete self-awareness and stubbornness."Her desires were like farewells"
Her injections of poetry into descriptions of her everyday life is gorgeous; aside from her stormy love affairs and WW II black marketeering, Leduc didn't have wild, life-shaking events to recount but made the most mundane morning activities a captivating read.
I love this abbreviated line, which is featured in a misty, vague description of her wanderings by the Seine and her ability to drive people away : "My empire of invalids, my crustacean cemetery." Her words are reminiscent of Lautreamont, yet her grotesqueries are gentle and elegant rather than shocking.
A must read. She was forgotten, but she shouldn't have. Always needy, always down, lacking formal education, haunted by the love-hate relationship with her mother, perhaps. But she had the ability to write. "Anything unattainable, she wanted", said John Patterson in his review of the movie in The Guardian - like so many of us have at some moment in our lives. De Beauvoir put it brilliantly too - “I know of no finer salvation through literature.”I will definitely reread this book again.
La batarde est la grande classique des hauts et des bas d'une lesbienne mal comprise pendant les annees vingt, trente et quarante . Esperons que tous les efforts bien intentionees des dernieres annees pour promouvoir la fierte gaie rendent la vie plus facile aux gens prises avec une societe et une famille qui n'ont aucune sympathie.Malheureusement je crois que ce livre tres dur n'a perdu rien de son pertinence depuis son lancement en 1964.
A gorgeous but heartrending portrait of a dyke born before her time. Her languid experimental prose rises to sensuous heights when she's describing her relationships with women, but the 2nd half of the book, where her ego gets the better of her and she sets her sights on a wealthy and cultured gay man, is harder to stomach.
i have read this one over and over again and never fail to be inspired by its brilliance
Me: Uncle, uncle, uncle!P. 135: I win.I lack la stamina for this extreme of navel-gazing, no matter how sparkly the lint.
Violette is incredibly frank and such a compelling, passionate writer.
now rereading, and will add notes when able to compare two views from fourteen years apart. the ghost of it has sustained me during those years.
The greatest book to come out of the post-war French generation? I think so.
An exquisitely written existential, feminist masterpiece. A tantalizing and tumultuous descent down the rabbit hole, journeying through the author’s personal trials set against the escalation and onslaught of WWII and occupied France. Shocking in places, even by today's sexual mores, the loathing and longing in this story brought me to tears at several points - overwhelmed by such brutal honesty told with unflinching self-analysis and insight. ‘Dear reader’, you will be inextricably changed.
I find her books tedious to read. She can be quite poetic at times but her narrative tends to ramble. She definitely had issues & I think that she was not able to convey them clearly. Obsessive...Yes!
hadn't heard of this author before i came across it in my workplace's library, but simone de beauvoir wrote a laudatory review of it... hope to finish it within the next couple of days and write my thoughts about it; seems like it has a lot to mull over!
Difficult and enlightening, La Batarde is a gorgeous self-reverie by a unique writer. See the movie Violette, then read her work. Her voice is awesome. She drags you deep in the world of an ugly, poor woman who manages to redeem herself against all odds.
Very heavy. Doesn't let you remove yourself from her situation.Taking all too long on this one. I lent it to a friend so I'll be taking a break on it.
Life-altering.
Iniziazioni: a sé, all'amore lesbico, a Parigi e a tutto ciò cui Parigi, consapevolmente o inconsapevolmente, allude. Con oscillazioni nella tenuta narrativa (perdonabili, volendo). Volendo si può accedere, da sentieri paralleli e a diverse quote, alla prefazione di de Beauvoir.
2.5/5 I kissed her on the neck, in the hollow where men as well as women are soft with the softness of silk. Part of the arduous nature of being a bisexual reader is finding, and largely failing, to find oneself in works of literature. I'd have an easier time of it if I confined myself to contemporaneous works, but how limited is that? Still, the incessant cries that she must be straight, she must be gay, she must be a lesbian despite relations with a man (I'm aware that this does happen, but co
Still, the incessant cries that she must be straight, she must be gay, she must be a lesbian despite relations with a man (I'm aware that this does happen, but considering how many bisexual celebrities are claimed by the monosexuals, I've little faith in others keeping their hands to themselves), so forgive me for having become overly excited about a work such as this that hints at so much promise, the women, the men, the eros, the reading, the writing, WWI, WWII, a life lived book ended between those last two dramatic monstrosities.
In lots of other ways I remember feeling like it was just self-involved posh girl angst, but it does contain that really brave portrait of an altered consciousness episode.
She mentions the book to Ruth, who is also struggling with breakdown and unreliable perception.I guess, too, a lot of very brave and brilliant modernist women wrote books that were there for us to read in the 70s and 80s and which shaped our thinking and our lives.
They are books thinking girls talked about then.The other thing about this book is that it contains a thinly veiled description of LeDuc's affair with Simone De Beauvoir!
I've spent weeks on this thing and have read as far into it as I'm going to get. It's incredibly well written in a beautifully personal style but it is just from too difficult of a read for even me. Incredibly slow-paced. I challenge anyone who thinks they can take this on to do so because I imagine the rewards are worth it but it just wasn't for me.
