https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377691.Submarine_
Great Action different than lessons in leadership.Not that Ned Beach ignored leadership,but it was not his primary thrust. I enjoyed all the first hand stories, but the tale of Abacore and Cavalla sinking Taiho and Shokaku, both 50,000 ton aircraft carriers at Battle of Philippine Sea is near to my heart after spending much time aboard Cavalla on Pelican Island in her Museum berth and meeting Ensign (now Captain, USN, Ret.) Who was aboard as a Jr. Officer for the battle. (I was 4 years old at the time)
This book was a mediocre read in terms of understanding what was going on.
The author often used abbreviations and terminology that wasn't explained and made it difficult to understand what he was talking about specifically; at times it made it difficult to know what was happening.
However, this book had several breathtaking moments in it.
Out of everything, I feel like the author really immersed himself in this piece of work and deeply cared about it.
He used descriptive words that made me as the reader feel as if I was in the submarine right alongside of the men serving.
This book was originally written right after World War II where Commander Beach had been the skipper of a Pacific Fleet submarine.
The review said that it was originally published in 1990 in error.
I read the book ten years after being published and it left a mark on me at that time.
People's tastes change as they mature and I don't know how I would feel fifty years later, but my evaluation is derived from the values and opinions that I had as a teenager in the fifties.
Commander Beach went on to write good fiction with novels like "Run Silent, Run Deep", which became a popular Movie.
A sequence of short moments in the life of WW2 subs in the Pacific. This is very well written. There are tales of courage and humor. Technical details, while present, are abstracted in a way that doesn't keep the uninformed (like me) from following the stories. I enjoyed it a great deal, and was glad to find it in a used bookshop.
Ever been stuck in a tube under the ocean whilst people try to drop explosives onto your head? Neither have I, but it sounds intense. Like this book...intense. And from the horse's mouth too. Probably the best book about submarine warfare I have read.
I remember reading this as a teenager and found it thoroughly enjoyable. May need to read again.
Interesting. I read this after reading his Run Silent, Run Deep.
Real classics of submarine warfare. Beach was very good at bring the readers with him into the thrilling and at the same time scaring battle scenes in a closed-in iron coffin....
An easy to read overview of the author's real life submarine experience in the Pacific during WWII.
Edward Beach went on to a long and influential career in Navy submarines, so the fact he presents such a high-level perspective sheds light on why.
I would choose this book as one of the best WWII memoirs for getting started in this area, as it's easy to read, and full of stories.It's true the author's cavelier attitude towards the war is a little tiring -- he makes only the most rudimentary observations about the awfulness of what is happening ...
Hall of HeroesEach of the stories of specific boats brings to life the stories about the patrols of these boats, as well as the men who manned them. I find it a pity that their history, as well as their sacrifices in the name of their countrymen both past and present are becoming less and less known by Americans today. I would highly recommend this book to learn what sacrifices The Greatest Generation did in our name.
This story about our WWII Submariner warriors tells the great story of their character, bravery and importance. The author, Captain Beach, gives a general sweep of how the boats in the Pacific helped defeat the Japanese. The importance of their missions and their sacrifice cannot be overstated. Captain Beach has written this in a very interesting manner. He discusses several of the boats, their Commanders and crews. It’s an enjoyable read. I recommend it to all.
Nothing tells a story better than words from the men who where there.History is so !such more than just dates and places. The story of the men who served, their emotions and thoughts, that is what makes a complete history.Kudos to the brave men who lived and died in the silent service. The book is a great retelling of their deeds
Interesting, though not-quite-thoroughly-explained accounting of the American submarine fleet in the Pacific Ocean during WWII. If you've seen (and enjoyed) Das Boot, this will be interesting and intriguing. If you haven't seen Das Boot, Go do it!
A former submarine officer, Beach tells about life aboard American submarines during war and the dangers faced by the "silent service". With the adventure protrayed, the book almost appears fictional.
True stories well told of those who served under the seas, and of brave men who gave the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. I'm rereading my hardback copy printed in 1952. It's nice to turn a physical page again!
Great book that gives you a first-hand account of what it was like to be part of submarine warfare in World War II. Brave men enduring horrible circumstances, where even basic mistakes could take out a sub and the entire crew.
beach combines his own patrols with narration of other boats' logs. He was there!
Good read, a little cliché.
Nice quick read on WWII submarine warfare. My only complaint is that it was all told on the captains perspective. I would like to learn more about the enlisted mans life on board
A really gripping account of the undersea warfare in the Pacific theater during the second world war. The action sequences are written so well that one can almost visualize the whole battle.
The conversations and descriptions of the sounds and experiences on a submarine were terrific. I could almost experience the depth charges and the torpedoes hitting ships.
Very good non-fiction story about ww2 submarines. I would recommend this to people who enjoy military history books.
