https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240815.Elmer_and_the_Dragon
Elmer, using considerably less resources, though just as much ingenuity, is able to help them unearth the mystery that's besetting them so.It was really fun to read the continuing adventures of these great characters, but something about this story didn't quite stand out to me as much.
It was just as quick to read as the previous book, and I still rather liked it.I did enjoy this great sequel to My Father's Dragon, but it didn't charm me quite as much as the first book in the series did.
It was very fictional, he could talk to animals, or the animals could speak english.It was very boring.
-Random House-Time:10/17=30min 10/18=31min 10/20=12min-7words summary:Elmer-dragon-help-King-treasures-present-back-Discussion question:1.Animals can speak in this book.
What kind of animals do you want to talk?I want to talk with horses.
I like horses.
I want to ask how horses feel about be ridden by people.2.In the end, Elmer gave presents to his parents.
I don't know what presents my parents want.
I will try give something next my parents' birthday.It is interesing that Elmer can speak all animals.
Moreover, It is funny that dragon can speak like a human.I cannot imagine how dragons cry.
I know the Elmer series have one more book.
Elmer and his baby dragon head for home.
No, they have to make a pit stop on Feather Island, the island that all lost canaries go.
Only, there's a problem on the island - everyone has a deadly disease.
They are dying of curiosity!
Here's my favorite part: "Gold!
I knew it!
Just think of it, Queen.
Six bags of gold!" trilled the King.
"What will you do with them, King dear?" asked the Queen.
"I won't do anything with them.
I'll just have them and be rich." Also, Elmer's mom redeems herself a little after her atrocious behavior in the first book.
wish i could give it 6 stars!! one of the most awesome childrens books ever!!
Although Elmer's resourcefulness wasn't as apparent to us in this book as it was in the first, my five year old son and I still enjoyed the adventures on Feather Island and how curiosity nearly killed the...canary.
it was a good book elmem got she want it and the dragon was in a spell but got better
First published as a 3rd grade level book (probably 2nd grade by today's standards): my son's favorite at that age.
At 76 pages, my reading time was an easy hour.Book 2: Elmer and the Dragon.Not as rich as book 1, but still rich, and a fun read.
This book follows the adventures of Elmer and the dragon as they make their way towards Elmer's home as he tries to return after his two-week adventure.
Though I read My Father's Dragon when my son was little, I had never read this until now.
okaaaaaay you ever read a book that you read a lot as a kid as an adult and it's completely different from what you thought? Like I know this is the same book because I still have it in my collection but I recalled literally none of it except the dragon liming tangerines. still, cute and fun book. always a joy to read about dragons.
All the books in this series are excellent! Every few years I dust off my childhood copies and re-read them to the boys! Fun fact: Gannett raised seven daughers and lives in Trumansburg, NY. She is 93 years old!
It was really fun. And it took a few days to finish it. And the first one Elmer was tricking all the animals and I really liked that part and I really liked the new chapters too. -Tommy
I enjoyed this one a lot more than the first one, because it actually has the dragon in it. I look forward to reading the third one, which sounds like it will be FULL of dragons!
While on the island, Elmer meets an unexpectedly familiar face from his past, and both he and the dragon will end up helping the canaries solve a mystery that has haunted their island for years.I don't consider this novel quite as good as the first -- its plot isn't as neat and concise, and it lacks some of the silly wit and humor of the first book (though it has a good deal more snark).
The first book was one of my favorites as a child, and I never knew there were sequels until I finally decided to review it here on GoodReads.
While this book did not have the same nostalgic quality as the first to me, it still brought me along on a brilliant adventure with Elmer and the dragon I love so well.This book picks up immediately where the last ends, with Elmer and the Dragon on their quest to return to Elmer's home.
Naturally, Elmer decides to help out.The book is incredibly sweet and entertaining.
I loved this book, as I did the first, and I can't wait to meet  The Dragons of Blueland now that the Dragon himself is about to return home.
Fortunately, they happen to land on a submerged sandbank and are able to make it over to the nearby island once the tide goes out.They find themselves on Feather Island, where all the escaped pet canaries go--including Elmer's!
Elmer and the dragon are able to help solve the mystery; (having hands is a big help), which cures all the birds of their dreadful disease.* * * * *Well, this was no My Father's Dragon, but it was a funny little story that made a decent sequel to Elmer's adventures from the first book.
Elmer has rescued the baby dragon from Wild Island and they start to make their way back to Elmer's home.
They meet the birds that live there and help them solve a mystery that goes back generations.I was really disappointed with this book after reading the first in the series.
My daughter wasn't a huge fan, either.
For me it just didn't have the same sense of adventure as the first and the story really wasn't all that interesting.
We still plan on reading the next and final book in the series and I'm hoping it's a good ending and brings back elements of the first book.
The first book described the dragon's rescue, and now Elmer needs to return home.
The grateful baby dragon offers to fly him home; a storm forces them ashore an island, where some shenanigans take place, but Elmer is able to make it home in time for his father's birthday.It's hard to reflect on this one without mention of My Father's Dragon - there is a distinct story within these pages, but it picks up immediately where the first book ends, so that I find them a natural pairing (who wants to read about the end of a journey without also reading what brought them there in the first place?).
We have just finished reading: My father's dragon -- Elmer and the dragon -- The dragons of Blueland.We absolutely loved the books!
They are short chapter books, approx.
Despite being short they still feel like a full story and remind me of the books I read as a child (which were largely published in the 1800s or 1950s.Miss 4 and I like to explore different books and authors at the library, sometimes around particular topics or themes.
We try to get different ones out every week or so; it's fun for both of us to have the variety and to look at a mix of new & favourite authors.
This was a more pleasant reading experience than the first in the series because instead of “my father,” the main character is referred to by his name, Elmer. As I started the book, I thought I would end up giving it 5 stars because of that, but this one didn’t hold the triplets interest as much. It may just be a maturity issue, and this would be more highly rated in a year or two. I love how unique and imaginative the books have been so far.
I liked when he got to the island, and I liked also when he dug up the treasure. I liked it a lot, and I really wonder how the mom and dad thought he got the bag of gold and the watch. And I hope I could find a treasure box, too!
I read this one with my daughter as well. She seemed to enjoy it more than the first one. There's more of a story and character development than the first one. We're excited to read the third one together!
My son and I's third read along book. It is the same lovable story as the first one. My son really love it. It is constantly the topic of our conversations. He also said he wants to buy the next one right away. It is a hit in our house so 4/5 stars!
Not as captivating as the first book in the series for my Kids.
I love these books
With Elijah's book group... I like this better than the first of the trilogy.
The kids enjoyed this sequel! They thought it was so funny that the birds were “dying” of curiosity. Cute story, moved quickly enough for their attention spans, and was a speedy read.
2018 Read aloud to W age 3
i like the dragon more cause he play a lot but not the boy cause he dosn't do much
Read with Vivian (age 7)
No where near as good as the original story, My Father's Dragon.
