https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331894.The_Emotions

جذبني اسم سارتر على غلاف الكتاب..أو بالأحرى..خدعني اسم سارتر على غلاف الكتاب!لا أؤمن بعلم النفس..
أعتقد أنه من الخطأ أصلا وصفه بكلمة "علم"..
العلم هو ما يوجد فيه "قوانين" ..
لكن علم النفس توجد فيه "نظريات" فقط..ببساطة لا أتخيل أن يقوم عالم نفس بإجراء تجربة على عشرة أو مئة أو ألف..
او حتى مليون فرد و يخرج منها بتعميم يشمل الجنس البشري كله منذ بداية الخليقة!!!!
و لا يمكن وضع "النفس" تحت الميكروسكوب..
ببساطة "نظريات" لا أكثر...ماذا عن الكتاب؟سارتر يحاول استخدام الفينمونولجي (الفلسفة الظواهرية) في محاولة وضع تصور لأسباب الفعل و الانفعال عند الإنسان..
ببساطة لا يهمني!
It might be just me, but when he’s critiquing the views of others (Freud, James, Janet, etc.), I can’t understand him. But his sketch of his own phenomenological views is quite clear and his illustrations are pleasantly vivid. It’s a very short read and worth checking out before drowning in Being and Nothingness. If only that book were as clear!
يدور الكتاب حول فكرة الانفعال كسلوك فاشل وتهربي بحسب قول سارتر , يهدف فيه الانسان الى التملص من سلوك اكثر تعقيداً ويدخل وجهة نظر التحليل النفسي برغم انه ينكر اللاشعور واللاوعي ويصنف السلوكيات بين سلوك متأمل وآخر مستغرق وبرأية فإن الانفعال هو تدهور في الشعور باتجااه العالم الذي لا يستطيع الشخص تحمل صعوباته .
consegui visualizar o que Sartre disse no capítulo "esboço de uma teoria fenomenológica"... bom!
Pendapat Sartre bahwa emosi adalah 'kegagalan diri' tentu menarik.
Saya sendiri meski berada di titik sepakat dengan Sartre bahwa emosi adalah kegagalan dalam kontrol ekspresi, ketenangan, kebijaksanaan sikap, kedewasaan dan sebagainya, tidak menemukan alur pendapat yang presentatif dalam buku ini.
Kita tidak selalu merasa sesedih itu untuk hal-hal yang berbeda.
Situasi tersebut tentu tidak dapat diselesaikan dengan kalimat "kita tidak selalu segagal itu di waktu yang berbeda".
Dan situasi di mana manusia 'tidak gagal sama sekali', titik di mana seseorang mencapai puncak kontrol kesadaran apakah disebut ketiadaan emosi?
Saya tidak tahu seandainya Sastre punya buku lain untuk menjelaskan pendapatnya itu.
Couldn’t get into it at all. Avoid.
Me pareció muy tedioso a veces difícil de comprender
butuh baca versi lain, karena sama sekali ga nyambung dengan versi terjemahannya.
الترجمة زفت
unless 'subconscious' is simply taken to mean aspects of our neurochemical and physical state of which we are not aware), but then he muddies that statement and makes it mean that the way we act, feel, exist in the world—the forms our consciousnesses take in response to events and previous moments of consciousness—is a result of free conscious will.
While such things obviously occur, I think in many cases their is no willing lining up with the response, and there is a fundamental semantic problem in Sartre's description.Not one of his best.Quote: We can now conceive what an emotion is.
In this short book, emotions are some sort of mental act directed at a object as a way to "apprehend" the world.
Apprehension involves what we choose to know so that, "in a word,the emotional subject and the object of the emotion are united in an indissoluble synthesis." More specifically, "during emotion, it is the body which, directed by the consciousness, changes its relationship with the world so that the world should change its qualities." When we flee, for example, we negate the dangerous object.
Sartre's theory, aims to describe psychology in terms of phenomenology (probably because of Martin Heidegger influence on him).Sartre tries to shift our focal understanding of human psyche from physiological interactions that merely answer what is, a rather remote picture of our emotions as living beings, to a more immediately felt medium, the phenomenology of what we experience.
Sartre's criticism of physiological and psychoanalytical understanding of emotions in a nutshell is that they all lead to reductio ad absurdum.
Maybe he missed that point, nonetheless trying to understand our emotions with Heidegger scope and Sartre's ink is an enjoyable adventure.
Het stuk over Janet, James, Wallon, Lewin en Dembo was daarom lastig te lezen (en te begrijpen).
Over droefheid en lijdelijk verdriet: "(...) één van de gewone bestaansvoorwaarden van ons handelen is verdwenen en nu eist de wereld van ons dat wij in een werld en met de wereld handelen zonder die voorwaarde." Herkenbaar, troostend zelfs.
Sartre maakt duidelijk waarom je niet in staat bent nieuwe wegen te zoeken om dagelijkse handelingen uit te voeren als je verdriet ervaart.
Een oproep tot het nemen van verantwoordelijkheid, zoals ik het zie.
Een boek om te (her)lezen als je tijd hebt, als er rust is.
This book is a good introduction to Sartre's existential philosophy and his support for phenomenological psychology.
Sartre firmly believes that psychoanalysis should focus on conscious experience, and its reflexive nature.
Emotional behavior is our conscious reaction to situations in which the parameters do not yield a reasonable outcome.
Additionally, he meanders around his argument in my opinion, spending a lot of time on logical questions of consciousness and the self-reference involved in our consciousness of our being conscious of experience.
Sartre describes emotion "an abrupt drop of consciousness into the magical." His writing is dense and circular, and in many cases, much lengthier than required.
Good ideas, but not magical.
Un dolor, un auténtico dolor muy fuerte ha sido leer este libro.
Primero intenta cargarse toda la psicología existente hasta la época en que se escribió, después alude a miles de referencias filosóficas que hay que conocer a fondo para entender algo de la teoría que posteriormente enunciará.
Y la teoría en sí misma es poco menos que un viaje lisérgico.Es bastante más que probable que no haya entendido este libro pero tampoco me hace falta creo yo, así que altamente no recomendado para conservar tus niveles de dopamina y serotonina en cantidades más o menos normales.
Desde la semi-ignorancia opino, también es verdad.

A very interesting book/essay. It definitely gives food for thought. It's very short, but still manages to answer its own questions in a satisfactory manner. It's a bit difficult to understand at times, and it sort of presumes a knowledge of a few philosophers/psychologists - a knowledge that probably heightens the reading experience, but alas, it is also knowledge I don't yet (and might never) posses. Still, it is interesting and well written. Sometimes this translation comes up a bit short or gets a bit messy, but it's intelligible, and all in all a good piece of work.
Sartre's existentialism has many attractive features but it's phenomenological account of psychology is not one of them. In this short tract, one can feel the determination to get away from traditional and psychanalytic theories but Sartre's own effort seems to come up short. Neverthless I feel some of the basic ideas could be developed into a coherent alternative account.
A nice little intro to phenomenological psychology and existentialism. Unfortunately, there are some typically constipated sentences that say things like "phenomenological psychology". But most of the examples and dichotomies are easy enough to understand.
A good introduction to his work, however the more other philosopical works I read the more I have issues with his work and theories. Still thought provoking and I would highly recommend this book as a starter for Sartre's work.
Sartre's difficulty in making his concept of the emotion understood can be explained by the fact that they don't make much sense. His primary psychic model (tripartite: behavior, body state, conscious state) is flawed and I think is exemplary of the convolutions of early psychologists.
A fairly easy short read on how the emotions colour our world and give it a 'magical' quality. A fundamental text in existential phenomenology. However, I think Goldie's book of the same title is more up-to-date and comprehensive and a lot easier to read than Sartre.
Not the greatest of hos works.
I cannot really rate this book because there many things I din't quite get~! Interesting book, with very clever theories on the emotions, but I found it kind of demanding! I'll be reading it again!
مقدرتش أكمل قراءتهلا أدري ألركاكة الترجمة أم لأسلوب الكاتب
I admit that this was a difficult read for me but the knowledge gained is priceless. It's all about perception baby.
Sartre fala sobre as emoções, mas sem qualquer fundamento experimental de suporte, psicológica ou outro, o que torna o livro muito pouco interessante.
Another work from Sartre elegantly written, but more of an historical piece as I can't say I learned anything new about human psychology.
