https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129494.The_Greek_Way
It was not until her early sixties that she wrote her first book, The Greek Way, which stands in opposition to the German style, seeking to understand and explicate the Greek mind.This compilation of considerations, assembled at the end of a lengthy career, might be seen as a series of lectures on related topics, each chapter tackling a different author or concept, giving an introduction, facilitating understanding, and gradually, producing an overarching theory concerning the Greek mind and the Greek, himself.It is a most unusually personal look at the Greeks, from someone who spent her life growing near to them, and it is entirely full of extraordinary theories and observations, all backed up by quotes from the great thinkers, not only of Greece, but of all ages.

The author makes the excellent point, for example, that while we take Greek statuary and architecture for granted, we are in a very different place as far as their language is concerned.
On balance, however, it is clear that given Greek writers' love of symmetry, harmony, and a due regard for the relationship of the part to the whole, Hamilton is spot on when she reminds us that the form of many of their literary productions turns out to have much more in common with their architecture and statuary than might at first appear.
Edith Hamilton's prose reads like a disjointed and stilted school-boy translation of ancient greek. Plus, she's a snob and a hyperbolist. Her books should be put on the trash heap with all the other Victorian bombasts. If you want to learn why to love the ancients, go read a novel by Mary Renault.
I have been re-reading this, for the first time since high school.
Hard to imagine what could be better for the purpose of introducing the achievements of classical Greece to modern readers.
She explains to the reader what was singular about the Greeks, and why it continues to matter to this day.When I had read it in high school, I had not favored it as much as I had H.
Now, however, I understand that both books are indispensable for any English-language reader who wishes to appreciate the legacy of the Greeks of classical antiquity.
Although it's sixty years old, this masterful little book brings ancient Greece to life and connects the core issues and questions that drove their lives to the issues and questions any thinking person struggles with today.
She describes how in ancient Greece, for the first time in history, man was sufficiently secure to let go of the day to day concerns such as securing sufficient calories and reproducing, to ponder about a life beyond mere survival.
She describes the essential character of the great writers of the period so their words and stories don't simply blend together in an unintelligible mass but are clearly distinguishable.Some of my favorite quotes:"'God offers to everyone,' says Emerson, 'his choice between truth and repose.
Beautiful descriptions of Greece and the Athenian people. Truly a gorgeous picture set and many different perspectives opened up. Some parts were dull but other than that, I totally recommend!
Hamilton is a classicist rather than a historian, although historians of Ancient Greece tend to be as familiar with Aeschylus as they are Thucydides.
Hamilton does know her history, but is rather bold if not reckless in her ideas which would probably get a more circumspect response from a true historian.
The Athenians were the only civilization up to that time who loved life, she says.
All other civilizations, she says, created institutions around death and the afterlife.
(As to the famous amphora painting of Oedipus and the Sphinx which I mentioned in my review of The Echo of Greece there is still no explanation.) Then, when confronting the pyramids, apex of Egyptian art and as natural as mountains or sand dunes, she is caught in a bind.
So she instead writes, “All the tremendous art of Egyptian sculpture has something of this unity with the physical world.
But the priests stepped in, and that direct experience of the spirit was arrested at a certain point and held fast.” In other words, yes, Egyptian art is realistic and natural.
I first read this book back in college at a humanities survey course.
She was also made an honorary citizen of Athens for her work.I happened to pick this book up at a library sale—it is a double book which contains not only the Greek Way but a second book by Hamilton, the Roman Way. I’ll go back and read the second title later.
Human history, he says, is a cycle which excess of power keeps revolving.
The more power they get the more they want, and they go on abusing their authority until inevitably opposition is aroused and a few men, strong enough when they unite, seize the rule for themselves.
3 stars [Anthropology]Hamilton writes a decent book on Greek anthropology. The best element is her writing, which is often superb, poetic, and passionate prose of a bygone age. The worst element is that she often sidetracks into subjects she is decidedly not competent in.W: 4.5, minus 1/2 star for occasional mixed metaphor, vagueness, and slow passagesU: 3.25T: 2, a composite of some 3.5 and much 1. Valid points exist alongside ridiculous oversimplification, cultural hagiography, sloppy philosophy, biblical illiteracy, and ignorance in comparative religion (which she covers a fair amount).P: 3.25.
Alas, an old and decrepit copy!Simply, a treatise on the greatness of the Ancient Greeks.
From this statement, Hamilton then proceeds to show the reader why we can say "great."She traces each "big" writer: Aeschylus, Herodutus, Plato, etc.
and sets up a comparative with each.
Aeschylus with the other dramatists; Herodutus with Thucydides and Xenophon, etc.But, the two most powerful arguments, I think, come at the beginning and the end: the first setting in relief the difference between thinking of the East against this "new" Greek thinking that ultimately becomes the core to the West; and, the second concerning a follow-on to the first—that of the spurning of religeon as a controlling force in men's (and women's) lives.This, like other works regarding the classical world, I will return to again and again, I'm sure.But first, I'll definitely have to buy an updated copy—one that is not bound with an elastic.
I first encountered the work of Edith Hamilton when I was a student of Latin in high school.
She enchanted me with her love for classical Greece much as did my Latin teacher.
Hamilton outlines both the mythology and cultural history of Greece from its literature to it art, architecture and beyond.
Her passion for the classics, she co-edited what is still a standard collection of Plato's Dialogues, is evident on every page.
It hard for the reader not to succumb to the admirable presentation and seek further immersion in this culture.
This is a wonderful overview of the culture that influences yet today.

I read this at around the same time we were made to read her Mythology for freshman English class and during the period I was fulfilling high school foreign language requirements by studying Latin. It was probably my first survey of ancient Greek culture and society and I thoroughly enjoyed it, particularly the part when she pointed out that Greek buildings and statues were originally painted brilliantly, the latter often equipped with glass eyeballs. That blew my mind. It still does.
My current favorite book; brilliantly presented, truthful, braod, and just the right amount of justified snobbery on behalf of the Greeks. Changed my life and how i think about the world.
I began this to enrich my trip to Greece. It has enriched my understanding of the world. It's relevance to today's art, literature, and politics continually made me pause to consider my previously deficient understanding. I am so glad I read it at this time. It has helped me gain additional perspective in many fields.
Excellent read encapsulating a lot of wisdom.
Ik heb geen idee of dit boek inmiddels verouderd is, of er nieuwe gezichtspunten zijn over de Grieken, maar het was in ieder geval wél heel enthousiasmerend.
Hamilton was from an earlier generation, when the study of the classics had not been entirely relegated to an out of the way corner of academia.
The Greek Way (written when Hamilton was already 60 years old) appears to be a summary of that love, and a distillation of what she found reading and studying what the Greeks left behind—material compelling enough that it was preserved for millennia.
Hamilton argues that the Greeks were the originators of much of what we take for granted, including our assumptions about art, the importance of a free mind, and the reasons why we find tragedy compelling.
Edith Hamilton writes beautiful prose which has been a joy to many since her book was first published in 1930.She writes for an audience unfamiliar with ancient Greek culture.
Scholarship is yet another expression of the time in which it was written.Yet of course all this is little in comparison to the book’s great virtues.
The first volume of the Loeb edition of Athenaeus’ Deipnosophists has an index listing over 300 writers – poets, dramatists, dancers, painters, philosophers, performers, writers on food, scholars, satiric poets and so on – none of whose works have survived the years.
Edith Hamilton’s The Greek Way is still a useful aid to appreciating what remains of ancient Greek culture.
In order to draw out the extraordinary nature of the so-called Greek Miracle, Hamilton amalgamates all the Asian cultures west of China and ascribes to them a host of generally unsavory and developmentally shortsighted characteristics that they have maintained since the days of antiquity.
This is not, strictly speaking, scholarship, but it sure makes for some interesting reading - largely, perhaps, because it is the kind of thing that one would never see in a contemporary work of this kind.
Hers was a formidable intellect and the essays in this books will hopefully continue to give some very nourishing food for thought to any interested in ancient Greek culture.
Edith Hamilton's The Greek Way is essentially a long opinion piece on why the ancient Greeks matter in the modern world.
Ms. Hamilton would assert that in many ways those ancient Greeks are better than their modern counterparts.
It does help to be well read, because Hamilton will go at length comparing AEschylus' character Clytemnestra to Shakespeare's Lady Macbeth or Sophocles poetic meter to Milton.
I have to admit, while reading this tome I kept thinking that Edith Hamilton should go on a blind date with Will Durant.
Like, really bad.
Hamilton is obsessed with placing national cultures in boxes (if you’re western, if you’re “eastern”, its all the same shit to her).The “east” care not for the individual soul, as Buddhism is a religion of personal renunciation.
The French are our times great thinkers, while the British are our great poets.Seriously, she talks like this.I almost feel bad for her, so myopic is her view of the world.
There is Greece in its democratic glory, the flower of all that is good in our world.
I found Mz. Hamilton's writing to be easy to read and, at times, amusing, and always informative.The only negative comments I would make would be that the book presents itself as a discourse of Greek culture, it really only focuses on a very short (albeit productive) era of Athenian history.
The book makes some interesting comparisons to the Bible, as well, which I would not consider hostile to the Bible and useful in seeing connections between the Greek way of thinking, unique in the ancient world, and the way in which particularly evangelists used Greek culture to further God's message in the first century.
This is about ancient Greece. All I wanted to know and forgot about philosophers, artists and the Greek contributions still enjoyed today. Interesting and uncomplicated for example the word 'character' is Greek. To us the word character indicates individual uniqueness, for the Greeks it meant individual integration to society. The book has many of the philosophers long forgotten, yet brought back with vividness and ease........
a very interesting read offering a myriad of valuable perspectives... beware, however, as the scholarship used to refer to the ancient Egyptian civilization is dated and inaccurate... still, like Oedipus Aegyptus, although the information is not correct, the perspective is still a valuable one to explore.
I wish I had read this book long ago. It is indeed brilliant.
This is a classic. And for a reason. I recommend it highly.
Reading this book for me was like slipping into a graduate level college class while having barely mastered elementary level instruction in the field of the Golden Age of Greece.
Now, because of Edith Hamilton, I know why people attempt to study Classical Greek and attempt to read the remnants of Greek writing from two and one- half centuries ago.
Time spent in these pursuits is time gained in learning about great ideas, distinct to Greek civilization, and having left their mark on freedom loving peoples coming after them.
