https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7971.The_Call_of_Earth
You have to act as if something is true, and so you choose the thing you have the most reason to believe in, you have to live in the world that you have the most hope in.
I'll choose the one that, if it's true, makes this reality one worth living in.

I read this book because a person I mentor was reading it and I felt I needed to keep up with them and discuss it.
I definitely WILL NOT be reading any more.
I am thoroughly disgusted with this author using a story from scripture with such vulgarity.
I discussed with my mentee why I will not be reading any more of this series.
It was a good discussion about choosing good classics vs.
something others are raving about that may not fit with our personal goals.
NOTE TO PARENTS: This book contains material I find inappropriate for youth and adults.
He even introduces new major characters that have no parallel in the "Book of Mormon." The writing itself also seems improved and definitely free of the errors I saw in the first book.This may surprise some Mormons, but this book spends a lot of time talking about sex.
One of the characters also turns out to be gay, where Card gives a surprisingly sympathetic point of view (well, surprising to those who think they fully understand Card's views).Towards the end of the book, I saw the pages running out, and I wondered where Card was going, but as always, he ends with a very satisfying ending that ties everything together.
I really did not like the story. I had to stop reading it. The series is just a fantastical account of the Book Mormon stories. Not my thing, even though Card is an amazing author. He should stick to more "Ender" books.
Being the second book in the series, I was afraid it will be less interesting. Fortunately, my bias was wrong! The characters are developed even more, both good and evil are present in all of them.
Well, to give Card some credit, he made sure there was appropriate chaos and conflict following the (oh so convenient) death of Gaballufix in Book 1.
However, the politics in the book (concerning Basilica) are still way to simplistic and have some faults.
I'm starting to get...
My love for Card's books only goes so far!As a side note, there is still so much drama in this book.
Some things were also really unrealistic or lazy like in the first book (view spoiler)[ For example, Moozh is actually the father of the waterseer and ravler.
The Call of Earth focuses more on the Wetchik's family ties and other surrounding characters that the Oversoul is affecting to accomplish its plans for a return to Earth.The Call of Earth is the direct continuation of The Memory of Earth.
It continues to use the Oversoul as a stand in for God. Card does a great job showing the struggles that a person has with God and the questions a person asks in times of happiness and in times of sadness.
Ultimately I think that one of Card's messages in the book is that you cannot escape the will of God even if you defy God.
This parts of the Homecoming story explores the dynamics of marriage and sex in a society that is run by women.
It reminds me a little of Ursula Le Guin, except Le Guin is much more obvious and usually stretches the boundaries of relationships even more.This story sends our group back to the the city of Bascilica to find wives.
This mission to find wives is the reason there is so much discussion of marriage and sex in this book.During this story there is also a political power struggle in the city of Bascilica.
There is not much progress toward the colonization mission, but there is some interesting dynamics explored in the relationships.
Then the Oversoul’s network of satellites orbiting the planet began to deteriorate and the thoughts of men began to return to conquest and greed.According to its programming, if the Oversoul ever lost control of its charges it was to gather up a faithful few and lead them into the desert, where the great ships still lay waiting with the purpose of returning them to Earth: an Earth which should by this time have healed itself, to begin again.
The Oversoul admits that it does not precisely know where the rogue dreams are coming from but thinks it may be the Keeper of Earth, an even more powerful computer left behind to watch over the planet and call its children back when the time was right.
I try to give every book I read the benefit of the doubt.
This book was actually recommended to a friend to thought I'd like it, so I read it to be polite.
That being said, I wouldn't have finished it except someone else asked me to read it.
Card has definitely written better stories.
This one was just weird - the society was weird, the characters were weird, the plot was weird.
I couldn't stop squirming as I read it.
It was not enjoyable.
It was disappointing after the first book, because the first one was much better.
I mostly feel the same way about this book as I did the first in the series, so I'm not going to write a complete review. It's a good enough story, but only if you don't focus on the weird religious implications like the fact that many people actually DO think an invisible, all-knowing being sends messages to them. The story would fit right in with the Old Testament....just with computers and satellites and hover-chairs added. Oh, and there is an ick factor involving child marriage.
This is another great book by Orson Scott Card. I am enjoying how the story is complete but still very obviously part of a larger story arc. It makes it feel like the book shouldn't be over and makes you want to jump to the next novel right away. The citizens of Basillica continue their journey towards destruction while the over soul works to save humanity from itself.
While it is still a great book, it's definitely not as intense as the first book of the series. There are some twists and turns that you end up expecting. However, OSC made sure to leave some food for thought. In my case, this refers to the giant rats and the flying monkeys. Looking forward to reading the sequel!
So...I didn't listen to the first part, but it was still entertaining enough...big picture revalations inserted fairly regularly into a decent plot. Enjoyable enough to listen to, but I won't be looking for more, and happy not to have read it.
Excellent Book - OSC has done it again. This book is truly one of the best book's I have ever read. If you liked Ender's Game then you should like this as well. In a way there are parallels between Ender and Nafai.
I'm still holding my breath for the cool action that was promised in The Memory of Earth to begin. Or the characters to undergo something profound.It's not happened yet. Oh well, maybe in the next book.
Liked it, better than the first book. The author has a way of writing that is thought provoking. I prefer action in a book, but sometimes character development is a pleasant change. I will read the next book mainly to see how it ends, and I love space travel books.
Interesting story
Not going to continue the series - got too bogged down for me
Well I am a big fan of Orson Scott Card, so I might be a bit biased. This was nothing like I expected from him but I enjoyed the story. If you like his other work then this is worth a try.
Reasonably entertaining and thought provoking. Interesting concepts laced with pretty typical sub-plots.
Nothing spectacular but good enough to keep my interest.
7/10
This is a good book - sequel to volume 1 I really liked the character development but did not like the abrupt ending of this book nor the way it was told in an epilogue.
The writing and style of storytelling reminds me much more of "The Song of Ice and Fire," though Card manages to develop and present similar ambitions, passions and jealousies of nuanced characters in about a fifth of the length that Martin does.Here's what happens:(view spoiler)[The Oversoul sends dreams to the people it has caused to be in the city of Basilica, trying to convey both direction and a sense of urgency.
But at the last, the Oversoul's plans all come together, and Moozh is convinced to let them all go into the desert as he takes control of Basilica, shepherding the City of Women in its final years.
And like I said, the tension just keeps getting higher.This is also when we're introduced into the minds of several new characters that help to even things out in terms of point of views.
We get Elemak's mind, in particular, and his jealousy and hatred of Nafai.The interesting thing I've always liked about Orson Scott Card is that when he uses two conflicting viewpoints, he gives us justification in believing both sides.
More or less.The novel really gets interesting at the end when just when you think Card's not going to pull it off (and I mean there is literally ten pages left of the book at this point), he does.
I am loving this series for the second time.
Am I getting so picky that when I have such a brilliantly written, fascinating, page-turning read, I only recommend it for my school bookshelf and not higher because it wasn't as good as the one that came before it?
I read the first book in the series, and I've read plenty of other Card books, so I am a bit jaded.
The situations are really interesting, the twists and turns exciting, the discussions are very sophisticated, and in the end, the story wraps up in a compelling and appropriate finale.
Also, while the situations were interesting and discussions sophisticated, that is about all the story offered.
Ils sont moins impulsifs, moins insupportables, et le récit, toujours centré sur Basillica, prend de l'épaisseur, et les enjeux deviennent clairs et intéressants.
C'est une très bonne suite au premier tome qui s'attachait plus à poser le décor, fait vraiment avancer l'histoire.L'auteur distille aussi des indices sur les tomes suivants, et comme j'en suis à la seconde lecture, et me souviens de la suite, je me rends compte que la série est vraiment bien construite et que tout a été minutieusement planifié.Un bonne suite donc, qui pose de bonnes bases pour le reste de la série.
