https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43916.Magician
Sometimes a book comes along at just the right time.The year after high school I was working a dead-end job as a receptionist for a company that ground lenses for prescription glasses.
I was in my second flat (share house) and I had 20 cents a day budget for food – one deep-fried potato fritter – supplemented with endless quantities of free alcohol, bought for me by my boyfriend's cronies, who, in retrospect, hoped to get me drunk enough I'd go for a foursome.
Maybe it's true that another story would have started it all even if I'd never found Feist's work, but I'll always remember Magician as the book that saved me.
This excitement was high, fantasy is my bread and butter.
It is just everything about fantasy that makes me enjoy it.
Not relevant, and possibly petulant, but I hated the name Pug, and his other name, and couldn't seem to get past his stupid names.
Sometimes standard fantasy, sometimes beyond the norm, often with clichés and often unique and imaginative, but never enough to keep me interested.
It just seemed as if things were just happening, as opposed to the characters actually influencing or making the plot happen.
But standard fantasy, I think.
But the young king is set upon a dark path towards the depths of madness, and the stability of the kingdom is threatened both by his own reckless impulses and the machinations of the scheming eastern nobles attempting to control him.In the city of Crydee in the far west, two young boys are approaching the age of apprenticeship in a certain trade.
For when they return to the west after speaking with the King, a rift between worlds has been torn open, and an invasion has begun…The story of Magician is mostly split into three different points of view.
Feist." Whenever I saw a hard cover come out I would buy it - no questions asked.The adventures of Pug and Tomas and the many assorted characters of this world have been a true fascination for me and I am pleased to say that every second I spent reading these books was time well spent and I would be willing to bet that my view will be the same on my death bed.Long live heroic, epic fantasy - the truest form of story I have ever come across.
A young orphan boy Pug is taken as an apprentice to a master magician.
While this still goes on the peaceful life of the kingdom is shattered when a mysterious alien invaders came out from nowhere.
The boys are swept by all the drastic events and are destined change their whole world.This book could and should be used as a checklist for fantasy cliches: it has them all.* Sturdy miner dwarves?
Check.* A mysterious invader force bringing peaceful life to the brink of complete annihilation?
Check.* A young boy (better yet - orphan) whose destiny is to become the mover and shaker of the world with kings bowing to him?
I love this book Alhamdulillah!It is a very different kind of fantasy book not like 'Harry Potter' or other fantasy books.I think anyone who likes fantasy books should read this book. Also I would recommend those who haven't read fantasy before to read Magician by Raymond E. Feist.
I was captivated and interested from the start which is really important for me.
I don't like books that are slow to start and often put them aside after a few chapters if it hasn't grabbed my attention by then.
I didn't notice Feist spend any time at the beginning on world-building, but rather it felt like he let the world of Midkemia spring up around a diverse and interesting cast of characters.
I loved all of the main characters and felt them grow and change as time passed, even when months or years passes between two pages.
Feist wrote this back in the early 80's so he should know better - Tolkien, Norton, Moorcock and others tread this ground before.Admittedly though, it is a hell of a pageturner even though the characters are badly drawn and the narrative is wacky as it speeds through years of development in a single paragraph.
The love and romance is painful to read, skip over them.Considering that Feist stumbled upon a unique and admirable new fantasy conceit in these novels, I am amazed that he couldn't truly extract better characterization and narrative from the two worlds of the Tsurani and Midkemia.
in the some way that Shakespeare's works took concepts from older balladeers and authors.There are new concepts such as the Valheru (the Dragon Lords) , the Tsurani , the Rift , the Empire of Great Kesh and new types of magic.
Feist explores (albeit in a tasteful way) love and sensuality more than does Tolkien.And Feist's worlds of Midkemia and Kelewan are also well developed, you'll really find yourself lost in these intricate lands.Certainly Magician and it's sequels are immense in scope in creating a vast world of magic,war,adventure,love,hate and political intrigue
The first half is a generic fantasy tale but it’s quite a good read.
Some of the characters are plain and stereotypical which lets things down but the plot moves fast and over a number of years so plenty is going on to keep your attention.Then the second half happened and I just wasn’t interested.
The thought of slogging through it for a couple of weeks didn’t appeal but I’d put in time an effort to read the first part so I wasn’t going to DNF it.
The ending was very sugary too, maybe reading ASOIAF and Abercrombie has made me want all fantasy characters to suffer.
Lord of the Rings written for Middle Schoolers, but with aliens.I was looking for something easy to pick up and put down, something story driven that wouldn't be too much of a mental commitment; in that way, this book was perfect.
However it felt very...
I suppose all fantasy books have the misfortune of being compared to Lord of the Rings (the only fantasy series I've ever devoted myself to), and this one is no different.
There's a bit of political drama, and magic.
But it felt a bit obvious.
I didn't feel myself getting lost in the story.
In a word yes.Magician remains the greatest stand alone fantasy novel ever to be published despite being a quarter of a century old.
Truly epic in scale the novels main focus is the story of Pug, from his humble beginnings as orphaned kitchen boy, to his apprentice and mastery of the magic arts.
The plot is also fantastic, although it spans years and multiple worlds it never feels rushed and all of the various side plots add to the main story, the invasion of the Kingdom of the Isles.Any review should touch on the negatives of a novels as well.
I had high hopes for this series but unfortunately I did not like anything in this book.1.
Plot & World Building The story is about Pug, an orphan turned magician/squire.
Without the backing of a sound plot or interesting characters the lack of a skilled narration is clearly visible.3.
More often that not you begin to wonder whether any interesting character would appear or whether there will be any improvement in the existing ones.
The book is filled with generic characters.
Only recommended to those who like RPG based books and do not mind generic plots and characters.

Maybe he planned from the start to have Arutha kind of monopolise the story and make his other two main characters look...fairly boring.
Okay, Pug wasn't boring, but he was so powerful at the end, I lost interest.
Tomas WAS boring.
But Arutha...During the first half of the book he was just this background character.
Then at some point, he just stands up, coughs, and kind of goes "I've got this, I'll take it from here." And suddenly he IS the main character.
At the time my friends and I considered Magician to be the pinnacle of the Fantasy genre, and I still see it discussed with the same reverence today.A few years back I re-read Magician with very high expectations, but found it a fairly bland read.
Neither the story or its characters gripped me, and the narrative structure seemed somewhat clumsy.I finished reading Magician, but didn't rush out to buy the other books in the Riftwar saga.At 15 years old I would have given this book 5 stars, but at 36 years old I only consider it to be an "above average" read.
Possibly the greatest book ive ever read, gripping from the first page, i cant wait too read the next book. When i read what it was about i thought it was going to be a difficult book to read, but i found i couldnt put it down once id started. i would recomend this book to anyone.
Basically everything you could want in a fantasy epic.
An absolute joy to read. It may seem too generic, orphan bit makes good, but written in 1982, this was ahead of its time. Brilliant story of magic, treachery to steal the thrones, dwarves, elves, dragons, portals to a strange warlike people similar to feudal Japan, battles, love and heartbreaking loss.....the list could go on. Sweeping nine year story that is just a brilliant story and totally captivating. Could not have enjoyed this more.
گاهی اوقات متعجب میشوم از اینکه میبینم یک کتاب اینقدر الکی محبوب است.
کتاب magician هم از ان دسته کتاب های الکی مشهور است.
ایده شکل گیری داستان جالب است اما خوب پرداخته نشده و بسیار ضعیف است در حقیقت داستان magician تقلید بسیار ضعیفی از سری ارباب حلقه ها و هابیت تالکین می باشد.
نویسنده محترم حتی به خود زحمت نداده برخی فضاها را عوض کند.
وجود الف ها، کوتوله ها و گابلین ها.
ملکه الف ها که در جنگل ساکن است.
اژدهایی که در کوه سکنی دارد.
همه و همه شما را به یاد کتاب های تالکین می اندازند.
The yawn factor is a mixture of several things: The pace was off, the characters were bland, the author can’t deal with romance, telling instead of showing was the Feist's favourite formula (which is always a recipe for literary disaster), there was too much things going on with the plot, too many over the top and/ or rushed scenes and there were smears of LOTR rip off.One day, out of the blue, the region of Crydee belonging to the Kingdom of the Isle starts being attacked by the Tsurani, people with Asian features who come from a completely different world called Kelewan.
While I really did love how cool it was: Dragons, firedrakes, elves, trolls… basically every creature you could ask for AND an alien race invading and starting a goddamn war oh and of course magic and a bunch of royal scheming and deaths I just found the characters boring.
If the story was released TODAY it would be a flop because it’s lacking diversity in every aspect.All the characters had okay parts but lacked in personality they had no *spark* no oomf, and made up for it in everyone being male *eye roll*.

The last time was probably around twenty years ago and my feelings about what makes a good book have changed somewhat in that time and my thoughts on this classic of 80's fantasy.
In addition, a few years ago I had generally stopped reading Feist as an author after too many low quality pulp books which failed to even hit that 'guilty pleasure' zone where you can read something which is not really so good, but you like the characters, or the world, or it's just a bit of ripping fun - we all have them in books, TV shows, and films.
Yes, I shall come back.
Until then, there must be no regrets, no tears, no anxieties.
Just go forward in all your beliefs and prove to me that I am not mistaken in mine.” William Hartnell
This is by far my favourite book, I recommend it to practically everybody I know and have yet to find somebody that didn't love it just as much as me!It's a saga, but this book can be read stand alone
This book is epic. Would 100% recommend to any lovers of fantasy!
This meaty novel certainly kept me busy at 841 pages, and I was kept in suspense throughout.
However, with a cast of colorful characters, interweaving storylines merge together to form the most fascinating of reads.
Other characters such as Carline, Arutha and Katla are all interesting, and one cannot help but be drawn into the saga of sibling rivalry, deep magic, hierarchy and otherworldly politics.
The world building is incredible and full credit to Raymond E Feist for creating such a spectacular, fantastical realm.
I truly enjoyed reading this novel that focused on small deeds of heroism, friendship and love that was truly touching.
The characters are not deeply drawn and the dialogue can sometimes be a bit cheesy, but the story is always gripping, there are no bits where you skip or go "bored now".I first read the Riftwar Saga in 1987 as a 16 year old one half term, and was totally gripped, staying up for five nights in a row finishing all three books.
On a rereading for possibly the fifth or sixth time, with an adult perspective, the books are still definitely worth a read as the story is good and satisfyingly complex.
It clearly reads like classic fantasy.
Especially the missing "Sex sells" attitude is a reason for me too love the classics though ;)I had quite some "Is this Tolkien?" moments, but it wasn't enough to actually annoy me.
(hide spoiler)] But at least there isn't really a "bad guy" - there's two sides of the coin, and although you clearly know who to root for, you get a close look at the other side and their reasoning too.
That's something I enjoy tremendously.It is very old school though - so if you don't like the fantasy classics, this might not be your cup of tea.
