https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/717843.The_Swish_of_the_Curtain
When I noticed that this series was being brought out again, and this was being offered on NetGalley, I jumped at the chance.This is essentially the story of seven children between the ages of 9 and 17 (three sets of siblings, a pair among them twins) who are all interested in the stage, and are coincidentally talented in different ways in that direction.
The story of course is of their various adventures in getting their theatre together as well as putting up the various theatricals which they come up with or are asked to put on, but it is also about their ambitions to really do something on stage professionally, and how this leads to much unpleasantness with their parents, who don’t see things in the same way as they do.
A group of talented children comes together to form the Blue Door Theatre Company.
I figured I would like this, because I do like backstage-type books (like Noel Streatfeild), and I did, though oddly, it took me a while to get into, perhaps because it took a while to get to know each of the characters.
I did like how the group's experience with creating and acting their own plays turns into, possibly, actual careers, rather than just being a one-time or holiday thing, and it makes me particularly eager to track down and read the sequels.
(Though since they're all out of print, I think that's going to take me forever.)
As a plump child, I think I identified with her when I first read it, probably later identifying more with the conventional Sandra (although I can't dress-make and I only sing as well as her in my mind).OK, I have one teeny criticism of it.
My favourite book before this was The Box of Delights, so unlike Nigel and Mr Fayne, I knew a bishop should be addressed as "Your Grace".It's also interesting that when the children go to see Twelfth Night, they and the rest of the audience laugh until they cry at the scene of Malvolio being taunted in his cell.
I think modern audiences find the scene uncomfortable and cruel.
I first read this book when I was about ten, and 'starring' in my own Brit neighborhood theater production--I fell completely in love with the book and actually carried it around with me in consequent (and frequent) moves till I was about 18 and in NYC! Today, I can't believe Pamela Brown started the book at age 14, finished it at 16!
I was at school, this book was out of print and I loved it so much I spent 2 weeks every night copying it out word for word into a notebook.
I still have that first copy of the book at home.
As it was set in the late 40's some of the references may be lost on some people and many of the phrases used have changed in meaning but it is still a wonderful story that predates the world of Enid Blyton but keeps a similar strength to the robustness of characters.
This is my kind of fantasy really - a group of kids all have talents in a theatrical direction, stumble across an abandoned church hall, are given it by kindly vicar and rise to local fame putting on productions.
Far more than magical lands and talking animals, this was the kind of highly improbable adventure I used to imagine would happen to me.
I can recite parts of this book off by heart but I know I'll keep reading it on at least an annual basis for years to come.
I think this is likely to be 'my' edition - the one with the BBC cast (including a very young Sarah Greene) on the cover.I've always enjoyed this story. It's not exactly rooted in realism, and some of the dialogue is clumsy, and Maddie Fayne must be one of the most unappealing younger sisters ever written; but if you like the sort of fantasy that doesn't involve wizards, dragons or elves, this could be the story for you.
My most treasured childhood book and handed down to me by my dad who like me adored the theatre. I went on to become an actress partly because of this wonderful story or a bunch of children who set up their own theatre. I will pass it on to my son and I know he will love it just as much despite the absence of digital media.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:A group of children all share one dream, to set up their very own theatre company. Pamela Brown's adventure stars James Lance and Caroline Harker
Loved this book! It was one of my favorites before starting to read adult literature.
This was a cute and endearing read, but I can't say that I was amazed by it.
I really enjoyed the friendship between the characters and the fact that they went after what they wanted even if there were obstacles in their way, proving that, in the end, everything is possible if you believe in yourself.
The writing was pretty decent and there wasn't really anything wrong with it.This book wasn't really what I'm interested in, though.
I think I might have enjoyed it a lot more if I read this when I was younger, but it didn't really stand out for me now.
Pamela Brown’s first book, this was published when she was 16 years old.
Seven children – ranging from nine to sixteen – live close to each other in a small town (not unlike Colchester).
If you like vintage children’s books I thought this was a charming example, good-natured, amusing and a wonderful glimpse of life in the late 30s – although the attitudes towards class are quite striking at times.
The book’s been in and out of print since the 40s and was recently re-published by Pushkin Press, it was the first in a series and Pushkin is slowly bringing out the rest endorsed by Eileen Atkins and Maggie Smith.
Bettie's Books
Very much in the line of Theater Shoes, it's the story of a group of friends from 9-15 who dream of "going on the stage." It's still wish-fulfillment fiction with its wonderful coincidences; the difference is that Brown herself was fourteen years old when she wrote it!
There's no condescension, no "cuteness", no adult winking over the kids' heads at adult readers or making sly jokes at her characters' expense.
I know Brown chose that number so that she would have a whole "company" to do all the different jobs, but it got a bit confusing for me, remembering who was who and related to which other one.
This is an absolute fairytale, and one I wish I had read when I was 12.
Originally published in 1941 it must have, even then, have felt like reading something from a forgotten world as there is no mention of the war or even the possibility of a war being on the horizon.
That sense of being out of time, of being a story simply about the joy of growing up and of finding what you want to be, is what makes this book so timeless.Timeless as long as you think of it as a fairytale.
A re-read of a favourite book, which is just as charming this time round.The author was 14 when she wrote this book, but the writing, dialogue and characterisation is well above the capability of most people of 14. The book lacked a little dramatic tension, but the story kept up a good pace, and carried the reader with it till the satisfying conclusion. I felt the author wrote very well on the worries of teenagers about prospective careers and meeting parental expectations.
i was not expecting to like this book buttttt........ I LOVED IT! it just gave you really warm feeling reading about how children work together to build their dreams. As a budding actress, this book gave me loads of ideas about starting my own theatre! Beautifully written!
ARC Copy...old timey type of narrative and suggestible for the theatrical type of middle grade read outlining both the thrills of theater and the inner, frantic workings behind the curtain.
Really enjoyed this. It's a great children's book, full of children actually doing and achieving things. Excellent.
This is an excellent children's book, originally written in the 1930s and published in 1941, but revised sometime later (1950s?) and then republished & reprinted.
I had the revised version, I am certain, as there was a mix of 1930s terminology and things that I recognised as being from the 1950s.
But regardless of the version, the book is a delight -- the author wrote it as a teenager and it has that sort of breathless enthusiasm and some the most realistic children's conversation I've ever come across in a novel.
when she wrote it, as well as by the story, about three familes - the Faynes is the only surname I remember off hand - whose children share an obsessive love of acting.
Maddy Fayne's the youngest, she's only nine.
Their mother was a ballet dancer before being injured in a car accident (by their father.) Vicky longs to dance professionally.There's conflict with disapproving parents, exams, support from the Bishop who loves Shakespeare, and an evil am dram lady, Mrs Potter-Smith, who lives in a house called Chez Moi. The Blue Door Theatre Company (as they call themselves) enter a competition - to write and perform a one act play.
I've had this book sitting on my shelf for years.
I refused to read it, until now, because I had read that it made some famous actor want to be an actor, and I was terrified that reading it would convert me to the stage, where I would soon find I had no talent, and then I would flail around in a fit of self-pitying inadequacy and cry at my inability to act, OH SO DRAMATIC.
The only direct, tangible influence books have had on me is The Hunger Caterpillar making me want to eat, and Hermione spurring on my nerdiness.
And 'Making love' meant stage kissing.Oh the woes of the 21st century.
I absolutely adore this book!
It was an early edition, bound in pink cloth - I can still see it in my head.
I got my friends hooked on it, and we took turns checking it out from the library until we literally wore the cover off, and the library had to re-bind it.
Later I got my own copy of the new edition, but I was annoyed - parts of the text were changed, and the boys smoke in the dressing room instead of chewing gum.
I loved how it reminded me of my own friends, and how realistic the children were.
This book inspired me.

So, perhaps, you can go home again.
Sort of.
I first got addicted to Blue Door series when I was about eight or ten, bought them with my Christmas book tokens, and read and reread them avidly.With the accompaniment of a few cups of tea and some English tea biscuits I enjoyed spending this afternoon devouring the 300 pages of this book and being transported back in time.
While a bit dated, since it was first written in 1938, I think that the book has aged well and I look forward to trying it out on my third and forth grade grand-daughters to see how they like it.
I have had this book since I was about 13 years old and it has been sitting on my shelf. I finally decided to re read it after all this time. And what did I discover - I didn't really like the book!!There was a TV series made after the book and I did like that series.So, it is an ok book but didn't capture my interest much. It is a British book written in the early 40's so there is some jargon that I didn't know what it means.
Reread this because it was raining, in May. It worked!There are some very dated touches, but the premise of kids starting their own theatre company in an abandoned building is great.Not sure if kids now would like it so much - my daughter gave up.
I read and enjoyed this when I was a child. I must have read it and the other books in the series many times over. I am happy to rediscover it now, 50 years later. The characters are well depicted, but seem now rather dated - how times and thinking have changed!
Re-read in a couple of hours over the weekend, this is the first of Pamela Brown's funny and appealing series about a group of theatre-mad teenagers. Although the Blue Door Theatre Company seem to get more than their fair share of lucky breaks, you can't help wanting them to succeed.
Read as a child
