https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8525.Dead_Cert
While he repeats the same character only a couple of times, virtually all of his protagonists are the same sort of man--relatively young, intelligent, determined, courageous, and somewhat aloof--at least until the point where they might the right woman and then, often as not, it's love at first sight.Early on in the course of each novel, the protagonist discovers some glaring injustice and determines to investigate.
He comes from a moneyed family in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and when he's not riding, he works in this father's shipping firm in London.As the book opens, York is riding in a race alongside his best friend, Bill Davidson, who is riding a horse called Admiral.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1RWb...Horse racing can be a dangerous sport, but it becomes a deadly one when a champion is killed.The film doesn't build the suspense in the same way at all - the book was a corker!
I read and enjoyed Forfeit last month and having picked up a few of his books recently decided to try his first published novel from 1962 next.At 180-odd pages long it was a fairly quick read.
Sufficient length for the author to develop his characters into more than stick people, but not over-long like so many of the books published today.Alan York is our main man here.
Alan is trailing his best friend Bill Davidson during a steeplechase race, when disaster strikes the leading horse and jockey.
His romances are very old-fashioned at times, but they are sweet, and with none of the extensive sex scenes that most books these days insist on having.
(It sure is nice to get back to a time when that wasn't not only completely necessary to sell a book, but also the entire reason for the storyline in the first place!) And I find the world of British horse racing he describes to be a fascinating and exciting one.I also rather like Francis's writing style.
But the basic plot was great and I quite enjoyed this book as well as the others I've read.
A re-read as a palate cleaner. Still love it as much. Wonderful language, great characterisation and perfect racing lore.
Dick Francis: What a great writer. Now and then I'll reread one. I try to wait a long time because they're so memorable. Dead Cert is more than half a century old, and shows its age. Would you believe a fleet of taxis directed by radio from a central location being described as a brilliant innovation? But terrific characters, terrific suspense, and the wonderful world of steeplechase horse racing in England add up as usual to an eagerly read novel -- even the second or third time around.
I love all of Dick Francis books, well written and always has an interesting story. Highly recommend!
Dick Francis may not be trying to earn literary awards, or communicate any life-changing truths with his writing, but he does know how to tell a great mystery story.
I also rather like Francis's writing style.
His spare prose never draws attention to itself; he writes in his genre very competently and never annoyingly.Dead Cert happens to be the first of Francis's many mysteries.
One thing that Francis got better at over time was romance -- this one was really cheesy.
But the basic plot was great and I quite enjoyed the book.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
I was pretty annoyed at that, and had whetted my appetite to finish the novel, which I picked up for a couple of dollars a few days later.Dick Francis is a former steeple-chase jockey, so is writing well within his sphere of knowledge, and that comes across in this book.
To a person with little knowledge in the racing industry, and less interest, it reads as a technically correct book.
The story involves a number of steeple-chase race 'accidents', which of course are not accidents at all, and I would expect that without the technical precision of the writing, a book like this would fail to convince.
Dead Cert, the title of this Dick Francis novel, refers to a sure thing in the racing world as much as that can be possible when enormous horses and the men riding them, are dashing around a steeplechase course consisting of a variety of jumps, different terrains and water barriers to cross.
When a highly respected jockey dies from a fall that occurs while riding Admiral, in a ride which had been touted as a dead cert by those in the know, fellow amateur jockey Alan York realizes that foul play was involved.
I know nothing about horses, steeplechase, or racing.
Blue Duck's new innkeeper Thomkins was a soldier, now organizing local resistance, including guard dogs.
Maybe tough-guys are as dated as pennies for the phone p330.
He knows the criminal from the first.
Stopping for lunch at the Blue Duck p172 provides a clue early, but the mass countryside chase would have given the cabs involvement away eventually.
(Spoilers:Especially when expecting an attack, I did not need to recognize a stolen custom tie to know the pickup police were fake p287.
When Alan remembers who kicked him unconscious, and takes revenge, the step outside the law is troubling; the reunited friendship with romantic competitor hopefully permanent.)
In the library, those book-of-the-month club ads, magazines, I'd always see the same names: Christie, Simenon, Francis...but for some reason I never picked one up.
It was a decent read, as all of the earlier Francis novels are: cleancut heroes, pretty girls, rubbing shoulders with and sometimes being one of the very rich.
There's been some debate in the past few years as to "who wrote them, Francis or his wife" but whoever did, they made a decent job of it.
He is riding well in this race but still a close second to his good friend Bill Davidson … until Bill’s horse falls and Alan finishes first.
As Alan thinks over the race he is certain that there was something unnatural about the way Admiral took that jump.
So, he goes back to the course to look at the jump where Bill’s horse fell.
Trying to figure out why someone would want to hurt his friend, Alan begins investigating and finds a network of corruption that involves much more than racing.
A great ride!Simon Prebble does a fine job on the audio version.
I've only read one other book by Dick Francis, and although I enjoyed the story, I wasn't sure if I'd really be that anxious to read another.
I'm not sure if it was the violence, the horse racing and gambling, or what, but it just didn't pull me in as other series have done.
But then I came across this book - the first by Dick Francis and I figured I'd give it another try.
All of my previous grievances still hold true, but I will admit that he is adept at writing an exciting, suspenseful story.
I love Dick Francis; his stories always seem familiar and comforting. I enjoy listening to audio books while I commute and his books are often read by Simon Prebble, who is quite enjoyable. Although it's not great literature and it's sometimes predictable, Dead Cert is a great read/listen.
All I knew was how to read and to calculate winnings on bets.There is so much to tell of what Dead Cert led me to, and it's probably best laid out by pasting here a blog article I wrote a couple of years ago.Seventeen years ago today I was having breakfast in Winterborne Cottage where I was living at the time.
One of the reasons for the secrecy was, I suppose, the fact that it is almost impossible to bury half a ton of thoroughbred in a dignified manner.Walking toward the winning post on that fine dry morning, I passed the place where I’d stood with Red Rum on the day of his 30th birthday, five months before.May 3rd was to be just another meeting at Aintree.
The main guy is supposed to be an amateur Sherlock Holmes, but he does too many stupid things to be enjoyable.STORY BRIEF:Alan has a good relationship with his father who is extremely wealthy, so Alan doesn’t need to work.
A bad guy strings wire over a jumping fence which causes Bill’s horse to fall, killing Bill.
He is good at sniffing out trouble and bad guys.” Well, I don’t recall Sherlock Holmes doing stupid things.
Sure Alan figures out who the bad guys are and causes them to get caught, but he does stupid things along the way.Stupidity examples:1.
Or perhaps I shouldn't say 'once again', since this is actually the first of Francis's horse-racing mysteries.
However, we do get a bit of a glimpse into the intricacies of protection rackets, bookmaking, and taxicab companies along the way.Every time I read a Dick Francis mystery, I find myself wondering why more of his works haven't been adapted for film or television.
And unfortunately, Alan's got his hands full trying to solve the mystery of his best friend's death, which is something of a challenge when everyone else thinks it was anything other than a tragic accident.
When he retired, he started writing books*, and I think they're brilliant.
His books are almost all quite thin, and thus a quick read, and they are a capital example of how to pack a lot of story into a short book.
There are no tricks, though the reader doesn't always know everything the protagonist knows, especially as all threads start coming together, but the denouement always makes spectacular sense.
The books say "Dick Francis"; makes no difference to me if it's a pseudonym for his wife; the books are just as brilliant.
I know I can always count on Dick Francis for an interesting murder in the world of horse racing.True to form, a likeable fellow is killed off in the first chapter leaving just enough clues for our narrator to track down the culprit with minimal involvement from the police.
The mystery in "Dead Cert" was complicated enough to keep me guessing for most of the chapters, but still gave me a chance to figure it out before the detective.
The main character is likable, has a love interest, and an affection for horses.
Alan, a steeplechase rider, has the horror of watching his friend Bill die right in front of him when his 'dead cert' winner of a horse falls at the last hurdle and lands on Bill.
When he starts asking questions to find out who might've wanted to hurt Bill, he becomes entangled in a mess of crooked jockeys, a gang terrorising small businesses, and a taxi company - as well as in a competition to win the attention of a woman who might be involved, whether she wants to be or not.
He and Agatha Christie started my romance with British mysteries, and I've read every single one of his books.Dead Cert is his first, and it's pretty good.
As always, his hero is unambiguously good, and surprisingly this bad guy is a lot more sympathetic than the later villains.
Dick Francis, a former jockey, paints a vivid and realistic picture of British horse racing, and he writes horses as they are - with personalities distinctly their own.I'm sure there are many who would find this book full of cliches (it is), cookie cutter (also a fair criticism), but I love the setting, the mystery and the horses.
Yeah, I spent my holiday break from school reading Dick Francis. It was good.
Another interesting mystery involving horses.
Although I quite enjoy the books by Dick Francis, I always feel that I have read them before. A good read all the same.
One that I reread
It has many of the elements that Francis would go on to turn into a recognizable and influential franchise, but in only semi-finished form: a first-person narrator who is a young-ish, thrill-loving Englishman connected to the world of horse racing; bad deeds sullying the honor of British steeplechasing; a plot, that for all that it is anchored in the rather stuffy, upper-class world of British horseracing, is nonetheless slightly zany, kinky, and off-beat; exciting and unexpected action sequences--Alan York, the hero, has to escape from the bad guys, who are chasing him in radiocar taxis, by galloping off bareback on his champion steeplachaser--and, the thing that holds it all together and transforms it from a rather silly action thriller into a genuine work of literature: a keen awareness of physical and emotional reality.
Written in 1962, there is a lot in this that is of interest as social history - the police, the town and the communications - but Oh my palpitating heart, the love interest is positively Regency. Love declared by a presumably hot-blooded man on the strength of a glance and gentle, unawakened kisses - and as a result undermines the whole. Than said the plot, even if a little far-fetched, and the writing are superb.
What a fun read! Even after, what, 50 years? Wow. The author wrote the story without too much time-dated detail to distract from the story. The plot flowed smoothly, and the characters were well developed. I listened to the audiobook and the actor did a pretty good job as well.
