https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313998.Johnny_Mnemonic
Somewhere between 3 1/2 & 4 stars.First off, as I'm sure most know, this book (& movie) are based on the short story,  Johnny Mnemonic , by cyberpunk author,  William Gibson .I have never read the short story, though I plan to, of course.If you haven't seen the movie, I'm not sure if you should. The acting is horrendous, the costumes are laughable, the dialogue, horrible. I guess if you like 80's films enough you might get a little heart flutter kick out of it but otherwise it is pretty
Somewhere between 3 1/2 & 4 stars.First off, as I'm sure most know, this book (& movie) are based on the short story, 
.I have never read the short story, though I plan to, of course.If you haven't seen the movie, I'm not sure if you should.
And here's the description from the back of the ORIGINAL short story, with one noticeable difference: in the film he only has 24 hours - not 48 - to get the data out of his head.
I believe this title is available in Burning Chrome as a short story... This edition shown here contains the short story, some pictures from the movie, and the original movie script.Though I love the short story with a passion the movie was sadly lacking... Though when I met Gibson at a signing he was excited to see this edition!
Human SD cardbadass body mod weaponsdrug addict dolphin.
O William Gibson é um dos fundadores do Cyberpunk, a corrente de ficção científica surgida na virada da década de 1970 para a de 1980. Esse Johnny Mnemonic foi publicado originalmente em 1981 na falecida revista americana Omni e ficou mais conhecido pelo filme (cujo roteiro também foi escrito pelo Gibson) de 1995, estrelado pelo Keanu Reeves. Aqui no Brasil foi publicado como um encarte da defunta (e interessante) revista General, em 1995. É um dos primeiros contos do Gibson, sendo anterior ao
Uma linguagem rebuscada, muito imagética, algo confusa em alguns (ou muitos) momentos, acelerada, pós-moderna, também cheia dos tiques de uma linguagem acadêmica típica das décadas de 1970 e 1980 (e em alguma medida até hoje) em que se vislumbra uma pós-modernidade (ou hipermodernidade) pós-humana, em que as pessoas estão integradas, ou melhor, são parte máquina, parte modificação biológica, mas em que o ambiente está decadente, a economia é dominada pelas grandes corporações e apesar disso é também algo pós-capitalista (seja lá o que isso for), profundamente desigual, com uns pouquíssimos mega-ricos e uma multidão de pobres, que são estão deslocados no mundo, em que as instituições tradicionais – família e estado, por exemplo ¬– faliram.
An very interesting adaptation from a very confusing film.
There is a freely available online edition of the short story, as ot should be. However that edition had spelling mistakes, I should write inconsistent, that bugged me. The story is thrilling, perhaps well described as 'John Wick, Data Courier'. It's all a little too lucky, and the fascinating world is exposed in an impromptu manner, making the murder an iceberg (short story sized) of exposition.
This book is a much better read than Over The Top...
I think the book reads much better than the movie shows.
The book creates more intrigue, and even though it wasn't a 'great' read for me, it was a page turner.
But there are a number of good twists in this book, and a few good characters (one secondary female lead).
The thing is; Johnny doesn't know what data he carries, a code is used by the buyer to download the info.
Also, Johnny can only handle carrying so much data (very computerish), and he needed to lose something in order to have the space for data...
The beginnings of cyberpunk.I must have read more times this story. Its plot doesn't matter, it's all about the specifics of the characters and the world: the (post)apocalyptic embedding of technological or biological artifacts into the human or animal bodies.Recommended for cyberpunk fans or anyone interested in another kind of apocalypse than mainstream.
Speculation seemed too wild and creatures undecipherable, but feasible to Lynch and Cronenberg types.The script, on the other hand, was so easy to understand and perfect for any director with great imagination and creativity because it was exciting yet wasn't too detailed.
It is interesting that Gibson himself chose to deviate so much from the original story, (the script is his own), but it is understandable why.
He had a clear vision of how should the storyline of the movie go, and the original story, despite being decent on its own, wasn't filmable as such.
The movie that came afterwards wasn't so good, unfortunately.
The book is really cyber punk, but since it's clear I'm not going to read cyber punk again, I don't want to add a shelf for it.
Science fiction is sort of a category for this book, but it's far more general than cyber punk.
information has to travel securely, so it's implanted into Johnny's prosthetic memory.
I began to lose track of who Johnny could trust, who was an enemy, and who was a sort-of-enemy who might help him out.
Johnny has information that would change the course of a disease, but pharmacom would no longer be able to make money by treating, rather than curing it.
I read only the original short story.
This book was based on the movie, and had more explanation, i think.The movie was so bad, it was good.
I liked watching horrible acting and the dialogues made me laugh, because they were so ridiculous :)The short story is a standalone, good think to read.
I admire Gibson's thinking.
In 1981, before Facebook, Google, online banking and location tracking apps, he wrote:We're an information economy.
What they don't tell you is that it's impossible to move, to live, to operate at any level without leaving traces, bits, seemingly meaningless fragments of personal information.
Fragments that can be retrieved, amplified...<-i>
Starts slow but finishes fast.
There were good cyberpunk elements and dystopian elements in the story.
The "beetle-bomber" was a great detail in the militarized, cyberpunk, dystopian bridge home of the Loteks.
I enjoyed the Lotek home of Heaven and the imagery laid out in the book for how their world was constructed.This was a great story.
Better than a lot of newer, dystopian, sci-fi, fast reads.I enjoyed the idea of the courier and the seepage of data from his implant.
Johnny was a good reader immersive character.The only drawback was the almost magic ending and identity of the mystery lady.
Оказывается в рассказе всего 40 страниц в моей электронной книге. Это было первое, чего я не ожидала ))Гибсон прекрасен, для меня финал получился неожиданным ))Рада встретиться Молли в начале её "карьеры". В "Нейроманте" она упоминает об этом периоде своей жизни.
Cyberpunk.This story is ALL atmosphere. It was so short that I didn't even have time to feel that Johnny was really in peril.Also, despite the title, Johnny Mnemonic is the least interesting thing in this story.
Interesting for a short story although equally a bit too short, and certainly an abrupt ending. Lots of slang and jargon that wasn't immediately obvious, which is frustrating but common in sci-fi / cyberpunk.
A short, dark look into a cyberpunk future with a lot of excitement and action. I was hoping for a longer more developed novel from this story, but enjoyed it nonetheless.
descriptive, in that Gibson way
Very odd short story. It definitely had the "cyberpunk" atmosphere, but idk what just happened.
Man, that was awesome! Writing was a bit patchy at times, but boy did it deliver the message!
Maybe a 3,5, but it seemed to me a bit unfullfilling in general so concluded to a 3/5 instead
Classic cyberpunk.
The award-winning author of Neuromancer brings his acclaimed talents to the screen in a March movie release, starring Keanu Reeves. This special edition features his screenplay and the original story on which it's based. Johnny's a 21st century smuggler with a computer chip in his head--24 hours to complete his mission. Amazon.com Review Johnny Mnemonic is based on a story published in Gibson's collection of short fiction, Burning Chrome Fans will have the opportunity to see Gibson's imaginatio
Johnny's a 21st century smuggler with a computer chip in his head--24 hours to complete his mission.
Johnny Mnemonic is based on a story published in Gibson's collection of short fiction, Burning Chrome Fans will have the opportunity to see Gibson's imagination morph from short story to screenplay.
In this special trade edition, which includes both the screenplay for the film, starring Keanu Reeves, and the original short story, Gibson fans will be allowed a rare glimpse at the evolution of the creative process.
This book includes the screenplay, illustrated with stills from the movie, and the original short story.
Anyway, same place I noted that I noted also that word of changes from the original short story to the movie version had leaked and that the cyberpunk community was expected to hate it.
The short story is much better than the movie (I should note that, in all probability, the three-star rating reflects the fact that this book includes the original short story and the eventual screenplay, whoa!).
Might have liked it better, but I would still have had to give it a negative rating because Canoe, however cute you might find him, still kills a movie where he gets to say more than whoa.
Its a good read.PSA: Don't watch the movie. It's not worth it.
If you can't explain exactly what the genre is or the description sounds lame to someone, you can give them a book with the story in it and say, "Here, read this.
Cyberpunk is, as a friend recently told me, "so over." I don't care.
I just don't care.Without Gibson we wouldn't have cyberpunk and without cyberpunk we wouldn't have this brilliant little novella and I've read this novella I dunno 25 times and it has made me 100 percent happy every time I've read it and without that happiness the formula for the total happiness in the world ever would be THWE = THWE - 25*IHU (where THWE is Total Happiness in the World Ever and IHU is International Happiness Units), and that would be irrational, so let's not even ponder a world without Gibson, cyberpunk or this story.
Johnny makes his way to the Drome bar, with one hand on a loaded double barrel stashed in his gym bag and a head full of Ralfi’s data, Johnny makes his move.
Only Ralfi knows the password and Johnny wants his headspace back.
Ralfi wants Johnny dead.
Ralfi informs Johnny that the data in his head belongs to the Yakuza gang and that Johnny is as good as dead.
The Yakuza doesn’t like loose ends and Johnny’s head is a loose end.
Do not under any cicrumstances waste your time on the 90's film of the same name staring Keanu Reeves.
This is an ode to Cyberpunk.
We are surrounded by a plethora of books on the threats currently posed by the invasion of technology and corporate greed in our soon-to-be-post-modern civilization.
This story (not really a book) is one of the best.
The difference is that Gibson does it great big, well described balls; which Keanu Reeves doesn't quite know how to handle in the movie version.
I love that many (most?) of William Gibson's formative years were spent in my neck of the woods, British Columbia, Canada.
Cyber and punks and balls are all swinging on the Best Coast of Canada.
658 - 2013Duh, pada tahun 1995 waktu novel/film ini rilis, data 320 gigabytes itu memang masih sesuatu banget ya.
Skalanya benar-benar supergede untuk mahasiswa sepertiku, yang masih pakai floppy disk 5.25 inci yang cuma muat 720 KB atau floppy disk 3.5 inci yang cuma muat 1.44 MB.
Bahkan game Prince of Persia pun masih muat di satu buah floppy 5.25 inci.Sekarang sih, data 320 GB itu...
Koleksi film dan buku digitalku saja nggak cukup ditampung oleh satu harddisk eksternal berkapasitas satu terrabytes!Berat ya pekerjaan si Johnny ini, yang mesti jadi harddisk untuk membawa data selundupan 320 GB dengan begitu repotnya!
What an engaging whirlwind of action and excitement!
Great story, although I'm not sure why these cyberpunks would use human bodies to store information - too much of a liability, methinks.
It's much clearer than the film, which isn't really as bad as everyone says (heck, it was pretty entertaining, even if it doesn't make much sense), although I can't help feeling that Gibson could unpack his ideas a bit more - there's definitely an in media res feeling here, but I wanted to know more about this world and how it works.
Lots of good action and ideas.
