https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311131.Instead_of_the_Thorn
I never do that) this is actually a good book and a very brave one for a very young author to have written in the 1920's.I read first the dedication to her very good friend Joanna Cannan
Add to this an aversion to being touched, her marriage to the ardent Stephen Ramsay, eight years her senior, heads towards disaster.While it is a mystery why Stephen falls for Elizabeth in the first place, he wouldn't be the first man to fall for a pretty face.
I haven't read Pastel but Barren Corn is well written but depressing and Helen is one of the worst books I've ever read!
While the writing itself isn't all that compelling, the story has some really worthwhile aspects.
This is a story of a young girl who gets married knowing nothing about what marriage will entail, what love is, or anything about sharing your own opinion.
This story takes her through the process of growing up, but only after she's married.
Though the main character really aggravated me at times, you really can't help but sympathize with the way she's just thrown in the water without even knowing what swimming is.
This is one I'd read again after marriage.
Also, he takes to sleeping in his dressing room so that he doesn’t disturb Elizabeth when he sits up writing late at night.Stephen finishes his book, and expects to pick up where they left off honeymoon-wise.
Heyer must have suffered over Thorn in the same way that Stephen suffers over his clever novels–and he could afford to be as clever as he wanted, at least for a few more years, because he was from a County family, his main income was from stocks, and his country house inherited.
This book left me feeling torn as it rankled me for so many different reasons but at the same time I have to remember: this was written in 1923.
Only 19 (yeah, that's great side cast, way to acknowledge that minor detail after chasing her down the aisle) guess we'll forgive her, b.) separates from her husband and stays at a Baker Street lodging (nothing says independence like living "alone" getting pestered by your landlady) c.) +1 fluffy lamb (what pray tell will you do when its a full-grown sheep ripping up your rustic English lawn?), +1 pony and trap and +assorted ducklings (which I guess where already there but now she takes a more active interest in their well-being).
I enjoyed this one much more than I expected. This is one of Heyer's early 'suppressed' novels that her son released after her death. This was contemporary and rather silly, but I enjoyed experiencing her early attempts at creating laughably human characters. Someday, Megan, you should try it.
This is one of Georgette Heyer's more modern romances and I didn't like it nearly as well as the regency novels. I disliked the beginning but warmed up to the protagonist in the end.
This book was simply awful. Elizabeth was a hateful, pathetic loser! No one could root for her. I felt sorry for Stephen.
