https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18831.Success
When the debauched Gregory Riding undertakes the profound sexual humiliation of his step-brother, Terence Service, he turns him from shy wallflower suffering low self-esteem to a wily aggressor seeking revenge.
Martin Amis once said at a New York Public Library talk that this book was in part modeled on Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita, and you can see echoes of Humbert Humbert's enormous vanity in Gregory.
The narrative moves gradually and convincingly from light to dark comedy, and this too seems a lesson learned from VN's great masterpiece.
Amis has always been open about his models (Saul Bellow's another) and he takes the master's lessons here and makes them his own.
Spanning the course of a year, this third novel from everyone’s favorite author who kind of looks like Mick Jagger tells the story of two repulsive and fiendishly misogynistic foster brothers who share the same the flat and spend an impressive amount of time plotting humiliations to enact on one another.
This is an oppressive read, and as the two cads trade-off first person narration duties, the reader is hard-pressed not to be disgusted by the wanton acts of brutal sexism these two enact and rationalize as perfectly normal ways to treat women.
If I never see the words yob and tonto again it will be too soon.
An extremely clever and elegant novel about the subjective nature of success and failure. For once, Amis wraps up the story properly and has a satisfying conclusion. The sex scene near the end (view spoiler)[(which, it turns out, was all in the main character's imagination) (hide spoiler)] must rank as both one of the most distasteful and one of the most memorable in recent literature.
The story goes a bit like this: a chronicle of a pivotal year in the contrasting lives of Terrance Service and Gregory Riding, provided on a month-by-month basis, with both Terry and Greg taking turns recounting their notable experiences during the elapsed month.
This awkward pair of narrators are foster brothers; Terry has lived a pretty fucked-up life, growing up in near-squalor and having witnessed his father kill his sister (and his mother was also buried when he was quite young, an affair his father is also suspected in having a hand in) and Greg is the scion of the wealthy family that adopts the orphaned Terry.
Success is a possum of a novel.
Let me be specific, I don't mean a cute animated creature hamming along with a William Shatner voiceover: Rosebud.
I mean the feral variety.
Years ago I was leaving a cafe with some friends and turning on the headlights I was startled by a snarling possum glaring at me, threatening me with an ever painful and likely lethal gnawing.
Amis bares his teeth in this one, a fifty-fifty approach to diverting fortunes.
The novel screamed to its conclusion .
Amis brings a smirk to every page as well as our assured doom.
I tend to think he means it.
The Terrys of you out there may not appreciate that the portrayal of the working class yob is a painfully accurate caricature (who am I kidding, the Terrys of the world wouldn't read something as intelligent as this) and all you wonderful narcissus types may not see the funny side of watching the positively divine Gregory fall apart but I don't think that should detract from your overall enjoyment.Martin Amis really is quite the writer, eloquent in the extreme, ever so witty when he chooses to be but in this instance it's not quite up to the very high standards I would prefer.Going back to his early work like this I am learning a lot more about him as a storyteller.
****.When I began this novel, I forecast that it would get a five-star rating.
Towards the end of this novel, the characters began to get boring.
It’s the story of two foster brothers: Terry and Greg.
Terry was brought into Greg’s family from an orphanage, and joined Greg and his sister, Ursula.
Greg and Terry are about the same age – late teenagers, but they are as different as night and day.
Greg has women fall all over him.
She is an available sexual object in the story, but she’s the type of girl boys should stay away from.
Delicious.
Vivifyingly vile.
Amis is at his most decadent and tender in Success, an examination of diametrically stationed yet equally depraved voices; of vanity, misogyny, squalid impotence, all the male vices; at once cheerfully sordid and painfully funny.
You get the feel, reading this novel, that Amis took two ordinary creatures (in their respective 'yob' and 'posh' stratospheres), bequeathed them with the ferocious lyricism and poetic intensity of Humbert Humbert, and gleefully watched as their latent misanthropy dripped.
This is how Amis induces terror in the meek: he delineates unrelenting id and reveals its normalcy, its humanity.
Dozens of laugh out loud moments - not so much incidents per se; more the beguiling virtuosity of Amis' metaphors. Includes one of the greatest sentences ever published: 'He said "hello" like a resolute halitotic sounding out a new friendship.' Certain passages in the novel, particularly Geoffrey at his most arch, stand shoulder to shoulder with Nabokov.
I bought this secondhand about 6 months ago; there seems to be a pretty much unending library of Martin Amis books to read, every time I think I've got the measure of them I find another one I haven't heard of.Then I lost it in the house and just found it again before reading it.
I think it's my favourite Martin Amis book.
There are passages in this book I want to cut out and keep, and feel like they were written directly for the asshole I keep trying to project.
A justification for a sense of humour I was not sure was entirely legitimate.This book is so black and so good.
I absolutely love Martin Amis, been a fan since I read Lionel Asbo, the only Martin Amis book I didn't like was Night Train, a couple of books later, it's good to see he hasn't disappointed.Success is a hard one to review, such mixed feelings about it, but not in a good way.
I think reading Ian McEwan's First Love, Last Rites kinda inoculated me for the subject matter in this book.
This book reads well, its narrative style, the juxtaposition between Terrence and Gregory's POVs of similar/related experiences gives the novel quite some depth.
Smoking carriages on the underground and casual racism... must be London in the seventies. I read The Rachael Papers and Dead Babies some years ago and seem to remember that I found them more impressive than this offering.
In the other corner is his foster brother Gregory, beautiful and bisexual, a gallery worker who flounces around London living the high life and wearing a cape.
The story is told in alternate points of view, starting with Terry's take on events, then followed with Gregory's perception, in which sometimes only the barest of details are similar to what Terry has said.
At the same time, Gregory's biological sister [Terry's foster sister:] Ursala is becoming unhinged.
Blindly open this book to any page, read a paragraph and you will know for sure if it is Gregory or Terry's side of the story.
Success is tonto!
It means this book is funny as all get out.Structurally it’s not tonto at all.
Rather, it’s a tightly wound double helix.
Over the course of one year, each chapter representing a month, we follow two brothers, Terry Service and Gregory Riding.
Now the brothers live uncomfortably together in a London flat.
It’s like a fucked up sitcom.The characters are very much aware that we, the readers, are listening to them.
The brothers are mirror images of one another.
Terry doesn’t remember when he last had sex, while Gregory tells us women throw themselves at him.
Terry mostly makes fun of himself.
Ha Ha Ha! This book is great. It makes me wish I had been born twenty years earlier, so that I could enjoy the kind of London it describes.
Success is a novel about two step-brothers, one prestigious, well-bred, the other a yob, an everyman, a loser.
Success weaves both characters perspectives into each chapter, one half is Terrence, the other Gregory.
Martin Amis often cuts from present-tense, to past-tense, to Terry, and to Gregory.
But, considering all that came before, the enjoyment I had reading Success, I’ll give it four stars.
So, we have a successful book here!
I’m just glad Martin Amis wasn’t some rich-boy sitting on his castle, one day saying:“I want to be a writer, daddy.” No, Success shows me he really worked at it.
I didn't really have a good explanation for "Success", but according to the Goodreads summary it is "a modern-day Jacobean revenge comedy".
So you have a brilliantly talented satirist doing a modern-day Jacobean revenge comedy.
If you gave me this book to read without revealing the author, I'd have recognized Amis's mark by page two, when he writes "You bet.
Amis, in his usual way, takes everything that's horrible about man and blows it all out of proportion until one gets the uncomfortable feeling of looking in the mirror and seeing, not a fat balding alcoholic or maniacal sex-addicted paederast - but oneself.
Except in this rendition of the morality play of decadence, everything is so amplified, so extreme, that, I don't know, it feels more...human than either Keith Talent or John Self do - though, I should be careful to add, significantly less laugh-out-loud funny.
I read Martin Amis's Success immediately after Edward St. Aubyn's Patrick Melrose Novels.
What was interesting about reading the two books in parallel is the contrast between Patrick Melrose and Gregory.
Rather, we deduce it for ourselves through opaque bits of plot and dialogue...so that very late in the book when we learn what happened in Gregory’s childhood, we think, “yeah, I thought that’s what happened.” But the story of Success is the trajectories of two characters, Gregory and his step-brother Terry, that intersect at Gregory’s sister Ursula.
I was afraid to continue reading Success after I finished the first two chapters.
When Terry found a way to capsulate my life, it was much more personalized:“And I can see, too, that I’m going to have to change the way I am.
I’ll show you.”In a dark, dank, down-and-out place, I wanted to hurt people.
And for Amis to understand that, and render it so clearly, it is upsettingly poignant.
Many a critic has said that there is no one quite like Martin Amis.
If every novelist could peer into my soul like this man, reading books would be a much more harrowing experience.
The story's rife with filth and a certain quality of degradation, but I found myself feeling a good deal of empathy toward Greg, the "gay aesthete", while utterly reviling Terry, the "office bum".
Interestingly, my girl, who read this book first, thought she identified more strongly with Terry, but the more I raged at how much of an utter tool and scumbag he was the more she started to come down on greg's side, too.
if you like this sort of thing though, go for it...it's powerfully written and at times will make you laugh, and then feel guilty for having done so!
Two foster brothers --- Terry, a neurotic, balding foundling taken in by a rich family, grown bitter and desperate for sex; and Gregory, the lithe, graceful, snobby, louche aristocratic natural son --- live together in a small flat.
Alternating the narration between the two, Amis paints a picture of conflict and depression, which only increases after Terry’s would-be girlfriend is lost, apparently, to Gregory.
Midway through the book, Amis begins to twist the reader’s sympathies, so that Gregory, formerly the arrogant prick, becomes appealing, and Terry shows himself to be malevolent.But Amis goes to far, for me.
The reader knew that Gregory exaggerated his exploits, and that Terry was being harsh on himself.
Both sinister and witty, Martin Amis delivers characters provocative and repulsive, foster brothers in this novel.
It is the emphasis on realizing a few characters which allows him to reach great heights and explore depths of human experience, putting Amis in a select group of novelists.
Their lives run diverse trajectories, intersecting in a posh London flat they inhabit together physically, their emotional and personal struggles and successes worlds apart.Amis returns to the filial relationship nearly thirty years later in another epistolary novel, 'The House of Meetings' (2006), also highly recommended.
I enjoyed the subtle (and not so subtle) plays between the two protagonists with the subjectivity of description and recollection as they relate to self confidence, 'socio-sexual wellbeing' and – perhaps a preoccupation of Amis', emphasised to the the point of excess – financial success.
Despite the crass mysongeny being a little more balanced by moments of sensitivity in characterisation than, say, The Rachel papers, there isn't a single even half developed female character.
The sexism could reasonably be read as ironic, but one of the main reasons this isn't a five star review is Amis' casual littering of the text with racist slurs.
Why do people like this guy? His characters are almost uniformly unsympathetic, particularly the boorish "Gregory"" who seems most identified with the author's persona. Poorly written, cheap shots, misogynistic - apart from that, it's great. For some reason people seem to identify sheer nastiness - particularly true of British authors (and sometimes filmmakers, rockers) with literary quality, a symptom of deep cultural insecurity. I actually far prefer his father's work, particularly "Lucky Jim,'' and agree with the old man's disapprobation of his son's modish, thoroughly unpleasant ouevre. Life is short, too short to waste it on Mr. Amis, fils.
cinismoGregory e Terence sono due fratelli adottivi, la famiglia del primo ha generosamente cresciuto il secondo rimasto orfano, e non potrebbero essere più diversi, peccato che il primo sembri quel che non è e il secondo diventerà quel che non era...prove generali per l'Informazione, due coglioni di cui si farebbe volentieri a meno, uno mitomane e megalomane, l'altro sfigato e ambiguo...che si incartano nel cinismo dell'autore, prove generali anche di quello, successivamente affinato e decisamente più a fuoco in London Fields
A horrible book about horrible people. Gaah!
Amazing how annoying and unpleasant this was when London Fields and Money were so funny.
This book is well edited and very good.
