https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1714625.Ondine
Medieval tales of supernatural women longing for a human lover and a mortal soul are common throughout Europe, from Melusine, to dragon and serpent women, to Ondine.These mythical women's nature draws in the reader: while they are not good, (being supernatural), their motives are usually pure and the men are the ones who bring about the unhappy ending.
There is no duality to Giraudoux's Ondine, her supernatural nature is never seen as evil, especially because religion is not really brought into the story.
The play is charming in its entirety and Ondine's enchantingly eerie ways give a touching insight into human nature.
اوندين هي اصل اسطورة عروسة البحر اللي بتحب ادمي و بينقلها معاه لحياة البشر اللي مليانة زيف و مواءمات هي مبتعرفش تتعايش فيها.The mermaid عموماً نصيحة جربو تعملو بيها : من آن لآخر حاولو تفصلو و تقرو fairy tales هتفرق كتير لصحتكم النفسية :)
This is brilliant!
The book description may suggest an old-fashioned love tragedy, which is not inaccurate, but this is so much more.
Witty, funny, surreal.
Ondines (or undine) are water spirits, some kind of relatives to mermaids.
The heroine, simply named Ondine, is pure, honest, infinitely loving .
exactly the type to cause problems in the human society.
She falls in love with a man.
Someone is destined to die .
This French drama is based on the German novella by Friedrich de la Motte Fouquee.
I haven't read that older book .
sounds less interesting than this.
(Read in Japanese translation.
Ondine is a beautiful play... If you forget about Ondine and Hans. They're both so superficial, Ondine with her constant changes of emotions and Hans, the perfect representation of a flawed man, so perfect that it's annoying, really annoying. What beautiful about this, is the secondary characters. The adoptive parents, the king and queen, the poet, Bertha... They all have this humanity in them, that makes them so human and interresting.
This play is based on Friedrich de la Motte Fouqué's classic nineteenth century tale about a doomed love between a Prince and mermaid.Giraudoux suggest two reasons for why the pair will never be happy.-1- the lovers come from different class backgrounds-2- the girl is a magical creature whereas her lover is a mere mortal.It almost works however.
Notably the king who is the father-in-law of the the mermaid intuitively recognizes that there is something magic about Ondine and attempts to make her feel at home in what for Ondine is an alien world.
(I read this in French, but I'm going to write my review in English since that's the main language on this site.)This is one of the strangest tales I have ever read or heard of.
It was a little confusing sometimes, because between the different acts there were quite big leaps in time and space and there's a bit of a play-within-a-play structure.
It was a little too out-there for me to love it.
I enjoyed reading it, but it was so weird and unlike what I'm used to reading that I wasn't too enthusiastic about it.
Pretty irritating, both the play and the character. Overall I prefer Medea’s approach to the issue Ondine faces. She kinda reminds me of Sabrina Fairchild, although Audrey managed to use her immense charm and talent to make me like Sabrina so if there’d been an Ondine movie I’m guessing I would have enjoyed her Tony-winning performance while finding the movie lacking, but that’s the way it is with most movies from my fave performers. The characters are dumb and the situations seem to be trying to be funnier than they are. And the emotion feels completely artificial.
أوندين :موجه البحر قصه كلاسيكيه أسطوره جميله طالما عشقناها ونحن صغار وطالما تعلقنا بيها انما اليوم الوضع مختلفانها مسرحيه تدور أحداثها عن جنيه تحولت لأدميه واحبت أدمى أحتكت بعالم الرجال أحبت حتى فطر قلبها احبت ببلاهه بطفوليه لذلك لم يفهم حبها الا وهو يموتستعاقب لأنه خانها وعاقبها هو ان يموت بطلها تحاول ان تنقذ بطلها فتتهم نفسها بالخيانه حتى يجدوا له مبررفتعاقب هى بالنسيان وهوبالموتيالرقة المسرحيه انصح بها للعاشقين الحالمين
A beautiful and surprising play. So much humor in this piece and it holds up so well to the modern ear. I was completely surprised by that. In other ways, it is similar to "The Little Mermaid". Not quite sure that Ondine is the heroic character here. She seems pretty evenly matched by Hans, they seen to go on parallel journeys. But a lovely read. I'm looking forward to going more deeply into the Giraudoux canon.
Read it in French, in class. I loved it, Ondine was a beautiful story, a bit sad but with a good life's rule in it. I also had it for my oral presentation in French at the end of the year for my baccalaureate and I was so happy because it was a story that I knew so well and actually liked, so yeah, it went well.
Not at all what I expected! I just watched the new movie Ondine with Colin Farrell and wanted to read what I thought it was based off of. They are nowhere near similar. Ondine by Jean Giraudoux was different, and sometimes hard to follow but the last few pages were heartbreaking and amazing. I am glad I didn't pass this up!
2.5 stars - I guess plays are just not my thing. Or perhaps I would rather see them performed rather than try to read them. An interesting story, though, and the last couple pages brought everything together nicely.
Really enjoyable surrealist retelling of a very sketchy fable -- supernatural fairy/sprite wishes to become more human and falls in love...and tragedy ensues. Giraudeux's style is cheeky-funny, despite the rather melancholic nature of the tale.
C'est une oeuvre bizzare mais assez bonne pour passer le temps.Elle est trés facile et rapide à lire :) cella là a tombé aux épreuves anticipées du bac 2012 :S
Une merveilleuse histoire d'amour et de trahison
Arabic audio bookhttps://youtu.be/CVIvQoDl8vU
Жироду прекрасен, но это не лучшая его пьеса.
Un drame très onirique. J'aime beaucoup comment c'est écrit, ses liens avec la nature.
