https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75087.Mystery_and_Manners
It is important to be true to one's vocation as a writer, and to write reality as it is, not as one would like it to be.
As a Southerner, says O'Connor, it is vital to be grounded in the region, history and customs which make the writer what he or she is.
O'Connor had a high opinion of the writer's calling and a serious spiritual vision, yet she was able to look at life with humour and to remain firmly grounded in the Southern world from which she sprang.
O'Connor is revered for her short stories and fiction more than for her prose writing.
In a special way, she analyses the questions like Who is a Novelist?, Who is a Catholic Novelist?, What is a Story?, How do we teach Literature (especially the fiction)?, How do we read fiction?, etc.
"Fiction writing is very seldom a matter of saying things; it is a matter of showing things."If I go in this way, I might end up quoting the entire book or at least the first five or six essays.Besides, she being a devout Catholic also tries to answer the call of a Catholic novelist.
There is just so much to learn from her writing and Mystery and Manners is a gold mine for young (and old) writers.
What she did believe, I think, is that her writing could be an instrument for and on behalf of mystery.
But what is amazing about Flannery O'Connor, and why she is such a good teacher, is that this mystery and depth is always attained through an incredible power of seeing the concrete and the particular.
She saw life singly through the binoculars of the specific and the universal so that the reader could see as much of mystery as he or she was capable of seeing.
Flat-out loved the opening peacock essay and wish there were more slice of essayistic life in here to complement the must-read/essential essays that reveal her as a literary fundamentalist, albeit one whose ideation be animated by denominational spirits, a religiousity that's maybe her strength and weakness in this collection, as in the story collection I read earlier this year (A Good Man Is Hard to Find and Other Stories).
Awesome to see where so many of those writing workshop old standbys come from: a story needs a beginning, middle, and end, if not necessarily in that order, etc.
After reading this I don't have to wonder what Flannery would think of modern Christian fiction.
I secretly thinkI will not be a writer until I write fiction and yet when I read this I am pretty sure I don't have the gift.
The scientist has the habit of science; the artist, the habit of art.""I’m always highly irritated by people who imply that writing fiction is an escape from reality.
He can’t put the gift into you, but if he finds it there, he can try to keep it from going in an obviously wrong direction.""Everywhere I go I’m asked if I think the universities stifle writers.
They have to be cultivated like any other habit, over a long period of time, by experience; and teaching any kind of writing is largely a matter of helping the student develop the habit of art.
I think this is more than just a discipline, although it is that; I think it is a way of looking at the created world and of using the senses so as to make them find as much meaning as possible in things.”Highly recommended to writers, but all Flannery O’Connor fans will find much here to enjoy.
I dislike so many things about Flannery O'Connor -- her dogmatic Catholicism, her venom toward the faithless world and other would-be writers -- and yet all the same I'm in love with her.
I'm not the only one; what's wrong with us?O'Connor's the mean girl in your writers' group:"Everywhere I go I'm asked if I think the universities stifle writers.
My opinion is that they don't stifle enough of them.
The idea of being a writer attracts a good many shiftless people, those who are merely burdened with poetic feelings or afflicted with sensibility."Her own explanations of her work is often irritating to me.
Lo scrittore deve partire da quel che vede, dalla realtà, da una storia concreta e non da un'idea o da un concetto, se vuole essere credibile.La realtà, per essere tale, deve avere un suo radicamento geografico, ed ecco perché la O'Connor insiste molto sul rapporto tra la scrittura e il Sud degli Stati Uniti, dove vive.
È una fede che non allontana la scrittrice dalla realtà, anzi, è un modo di stare al mondo: un modo fiducioso, che vede nella salvezza l'epilogo della storia e apre l'uomo alla grazia.
I told him that’s probably an ineffective way of writing and gave him James Joyce’s quote: “In the particular is contained the universal.” In fact, one thing I want my students to take away from my class is writing concretely, whether in fiction or poetry.Another point that is personally relevant to me is O’Connor’s claim that students need to learn tools to understand a story.
Being too self-conscious of technique when writing a first draft, I think, kills any vision that the unconscious mind is trying to communicate to you, and that’s why O’Connor says, “One thing that is always with the writer—no matter how long he has written or how good he is—is the continuing process of learning how to write” (83).
O'Connor averred that she wrote as she did because she was Catholic, and that, as a Catholic, she couldn't write any other way.
As a critic, she was an apostle of Henry James, deeply unsentimental (indeed, a hilariously unapologetic misopedist), an enemy of excess, a believer in humility ("the first product of self-knowledge"), and, above all, gloriously quotable (example: "Everywhere I go I'm asked if I think universities stifle writers.
But even impassioned as she sometimes was when her primary concerns were Catholic (and as compelling as her explanation for the Catholic novelist's poverty of imagination is) she was certainly never as funny as when she wrote about writing.
I thought I’d organize my review accordingly.I. A Short Story – very entertaining.
I am glad the editors included this story among all the essays.
I had never read any of her short stories or novels.
I was pleased to be able to follow her references to some of Hawthorne’s short stories.Overall, O’Connor’s writing is very witty, intelligent, and dense.
I feel like I would have gotten more out this book if I had read it in connection with a class – taking notes, heavy thinking, writing papers, and discussing with others.
And if you're short on time, focus on Parts I and III.
I'm kicking myself for not reading MYSTERY AND MANNERS years ago. Flannery O'Connor is a fiction writer, I told myself; what could she teach me about spiritual memoir writing? And yet some of these are the best essays I've ever read about addressing the spiritual life in prose. If a writer is any good, what he makes will have its source in a realm much larger than that which his conscious mind can encompass and will always be a greater surprise to him than it can ever be to his reader. --Flanner
Flannery O'Connor is a fiction writer, I told myself; what could she teach me about spiritual memoir writing?
--Flannery O’Connor, Mystery & Manners, 83.The point O'Connor emphasizes repeatedly is that only a writer's adherence to reality, in its sensory, concrete details, can make the supernatural apparent.
But where she challenges me is when she discusses the skepticism of modern readers, and how a writer of faith must at times exaggerate to make his or her point:The novelist with Christian concerns will find in modern life distortions which are repugnant to him, and his problem will be to make these appear as distortions to an audience which is used to seeing them as natural.
--Flannery O’Connor, Mystery & Manners, 33.How do we do this in memoir, or essays?
In this collection of essays and talks by O'Connor, the author explores such subjects as writing, the teaching of literature in schools and colleges, the peculiarities of the Catholic writer, and the peculiarities of the Southern writer. Particularly fascinating in the pieces contained in this volume is her discussion of the "grotesque"--a term and literary device with which her work is often associated. For those wishing to gain access to a greater understanding of O'Connor's fiction, this is the place to start.
I went 1-for-3 on Flannery last week, and as you can see, this was the one that spoke a lot of my language. On community; on place; on writing and mystery. Her essays are something ferocious.“A story that is any good can’t be reduced, it can only be expanded. A story is good when you continue to see more and more in it, and when it continues to escape you. In fiction two and two is always more than four.”
This collection is an excellent summary of Flannery's theology and general worldview. She's a wonderful thinker and this posthumous collection of essays and lectures show that. It has been said that the things said in this book are repetitive (and they are in places), but to me it shows what was important to her. She thought those topics so central to who she was that she repeated them wherever she spoke.
Letto e riletto. È la mia bibbia: sulla scrittura, sulla letteratura del Sud degli Stati Uniti, sul concetto di "grottesco" e anche su un certo modo di vivere il femminismo, meno esibito e più solido.Flannery O'Connor era magnifica, non ci sono altre parole.
3.5 stars - but the opening essay King of the Birds certainly gets a 10!
I'm chocking that up to being entirely the wrong collection of essays for me, and placing equal blame on myself for choosing it solely based on its cover when we visited the charming bookstore in Faulkner's once-home in New Orleans this past November, and on the fact that it was curated posthumously by two of O'Connor's closest friends.
Likewise, some of her essays on fiction (and fiction readers) are honest and funny, equal parts brusque and charming.
Likewise, many of them feel equal parts unfinished and wholly repetitive, which again, isn't so much O'Connor's fault so much as it is those responsible for this collection's curation and publication.
Who knew an isolated lupus-suffering hyper-religious Catholic in the smack middle of Georgia could be so hot damn funny!Seriously, a victory.I think what makes Flannery O'Connor's aesthetic so brilliant is its combination of two themes: what she calls the "violent" and the "comic." Her literature, like her essays, is both funny and deeply, unabashedly brutal.
For O'Connor writing, like reading, isn't a science or an exercise in sentimentality.
And no, she's not talking about the X-Files, cornballs.O'Connor challenges her reader to actually read not by decoding symbols and quotes but by going deeply into the text and the world it presents.
Il primo tratta dei pavoni, di cui la O’Connor era instancabile allevatrice.
I successivi quattro sono la ragione per cui questo libro è una specie di must per ogni aspirante scrittore, e chiariscono meglio di qualunque trattato di “scrittura creativa” cosa significa scrivere romanzi e racconti.
Poco più di 50 pagine di cristallina e crudele chiarezza, che non lascia spazio a interpretazioni su come la O’Connor intenda il suo mestiere, fatto di passione ma anche di capacità di vedere e di tecnica.La parte finale – sulle relazioni tra lo scrittore e la confessione Cattolica, il suo ruolo sociale e l’etica dello scrivere, il legame con il territorio e con la lingua – è quello che mi ha meno interessato, probabilmente anche per mia ignoranza degli argomenti specifici.
Flannery O'Connor carries on the tradition of being a great Southern writer.
Mystery and Manners is part biography, part life philosophy with a few tips on writing prose along the way.
As anyone knows who has read O'Connor, she is a pleasure to read.
She's terse, clear and has something interesting to say.She was a practicing Catholic and writes about how Catholic writers of her day were considered hacks.
This was of particular interest to me because these days people adore Catholic gothic imagery in all arts and complain about how thin evangelicals are in the arts.
I have known Southern women to have special fondness for birds and this would be the first chapter in her book as she share with the genius of a witty artist and in charming detail her observations of the peacock as well as people whom she observed; in fact, people who might have eyes and don't see, ears and don't hear, but Flannery delves deep into what she observes and so her book comes in such a vividly and exuberantly alive fashion as if it was written so recently, even though this book was first published in 1957.
Having said that, I can sense a Southern American preachy woman who can't help it and they all sound alike, be they Catholic as she ended up doing or Evangelical as she once was.
Self-righteous Southern spirituality.
O'Connor is one of those rare writers who can write equally brilliantly as a critic as they can in their genre. Required reading for all Christians who work with words. She attempts to answer vital questions about the nature of religion, the nature of art, and the importance of not compromising when you analyze writing (others or your own).
Se qualcuno volesse sapere come la penso sulla letteratura, può leggersi questo libretto. La penso esattamente così.Flannery Je t'aime!
i wish she was as clear about catholicism as she was about storytelling
Chi scappa acconsente.
Five stars for the epigrams, witticisms, and Northerner jokes alone. Flannery really is the consummate writer, even given her stringent standards. She's done more to inform my judgment of good writing, especially fiction, more than anyone else, and I'm grateful. This collection is really well-edited, where O'Connor's fundamental ideas and her go-to phrasings are highlighted and repeated in close proximity, but don't become repetitive. You're really able to get into the essence of her thought.
O'Connor has this down to earth, conversational way of talking about fiction and how it works.
Unfortunately, the last section, where she starts to wax heavy on Catholicism and the role it plays in fiction, really deflated the whole thing for me.
It's pretty damn stupid to think that being Catholic gives you some rare critical apparatus for detecting and dissecting the mysteries of the human condition that the rest of us poor heathens just don't have.
I'm pretty sure that life is just as bizarre and mysterious as often to the secular world as it is to O'Connor's stick-in-the-mud frumpiness.
I love this book.
It's Flannery O'Connor at her best, her nonfiction best, that is: wry, funny, and razor sharp.
God had a hold on her.This book is a collection of O'Connor's speeches, some excerpts from letters and essays she wrote.
Relentless and exhortative, mind you, while thorougly grounded in truth, the truth of real-life experiences and truth of God: "…every mystery that reaches the human mind, except in the final stages of contemplative prayer, does so by way of the senses.
Christ didn’t redeem us by a direct intellectual act, but became incarnate in human form, and he speaks to us now through the mediation of a visible Church…" (176).
She isn’t a very easy or normal writer and neither are her short stories (read: The Bible Salesman) but she was a brilliant woman and she knew she was gifted, with peacocks and with words, and in this careful book she shares some how-to some what-not-to-do and all matter of factly prose about if you have the gift you know and if you don’t have the gift you know - whether you admit to these truths is irrelevant.
Flan takes everything with a grain of salt here, knowing wherever she was, she was the most intelligent and interesting person there.
