https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25883848-the-hating-game
Re-read 3/27/18: Do you ever just love a book so much you read it SIX TIMES?
I love Lucy 4 ev@.Re-read 12/30/17: Had to re-read this one last time in 2017 because I love it so damn much.
Re-read 10/31/17: Was feeling a little gloomy so I decided to re-read this book for the 4th time this year and, again, it did NOT disappoint.
Re-read 7/16/17: Yep, I did just read this for the third time this year.
Lucinda and Josh are just the cutest and this book slays me every time.
This book is adorable and phenomenal.
I adore this little book.Original read 1/10/17: Fucking CUTE.
5 Stars!!I honestly think 'The Hating Game”' is that kind of book anyone would enjoy – wonderfully written is a very entertaining way, griping from the very beginning and perfect if you love enemies to lovers stories. I’ve read many books with this trope, so trust me when I say Sally Thorne’s debut novel was a great one. More than great actually. It was fabulous! It was fan, entertaining and so refreshing. Needless to say, I devoured this little gem from start to finish.   “I'm twenty-eight year
5 Stars!!I honestly think 'The Hating Game”' is that kind of book anyone would enjoy – wonderfully written is a very entertaining way, griping from the very beginning and perfect if you love enemies to lovers stories.
I’m not exaggerating when I’m saying this was one of the most entertaining enemies to lovers story I’ve read so far.
Lucy and Josh’s story was fun, sweet and so well done.
They made me smile and grin so many times as the story progressed and I really had a great time watching them hate each other less and less and slowly falling in love.
It captures that weird obsessive behavior you can't help when you first fall in love, and also convinces you that after a hard-won relationship, these two won't ever stop being endearingly, ridiculously fussy over each other.
Hate-to-love relationships are so fun when they're done well, and this is the best one I've read, in no small part because the "hate" part is pretty convincing in the beginning.
Katy's review also talks a lot about the heroine's feelings of loneliness and failure, as well as the way a big argument between them is resolved: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
5 stars!!!  What did I love about The Hating Game? Everything. I loved everything about this book. There is nothing better than finishing a book by an author you’ve never read and having this flying high feeling. I feel freaking giddy right now. I listened to the audio and I couldn’t wipe the smile off my face. I got asked why I was in such a good mood more than once over the few days I listened to it. That, my friends, is an epic book! What do you do when you’re the nice girl at the office who
What did I love about The Hating Game?
There is nothing better than finishing a book by an author you’ve never read and having this flying high feeling.
They share an office together and it’s torture for her- but what would she do without Josh and their hating game?
My previous passwords have all been variations on how much I hate Joshua.
Joshua and Lucy are quite the pair.
It didn’t read like a debut at all.
If you’re a fan of love/hate troupes, love a good asshole hero and strong/fun heroine, READ THIS BOOK!
Heartwarming (adj.):Causing pleasant feelings of happiness (and silly, stupid tears you can't stop).By all means, it was not a sad book. On the contrary, The Hating Game was a funny, sweet, adorable, intoxicating office romance about two sworn enemies that fell in love. And I'm crying because it filled me with so much joy, and hope and love my body can barely contain!  “Both love and hate are mirror versions of the same game-and you have to win. Why? Your heart and your ego.”   Josh is Lucy's ne
On the contrary, The Hating Game was a funny, sweet, adorable, intoxicating office romance about two sworn enemies that fell in love.
“Both love and hate are mirror versions of the same game-and you have to win.
But after one mind-blowing elevator kiss, and some unexpected kindness from Josh, Lucy starts to wonder whether beneath his cold and cruel behavior exists a Nice Guy after all, with the potential to break her heart.
And then I remember all those moving and sweet moments and I start crying, and people wonder who murdered my cat.
I'm so in love with this book to the point where I feel sick and my heart wants to burst with happiness.
But, if you haven't read this book, then do your souls, hearts and eyes a favour and relish and swim in this incredible and hilarious tale.
I feel like it's been a while since I loved a book so ferociously, where I thought each page of it was pretty much perfect.And it's the author's debut novel.
MY HEART IS ON THE VERGE OF FAILING.SEND HELP!I feel like I can die happy right now.
XDI mean who wouldn’t enjoy reading banter like that?
XD Well, Lucinda’s narration AND the conversations between her and Josh!They were like cat and mouse and I loved it!!!
It’s so bittersweet my heart begins to hurt.In short: JOSH AND LUCY WERE AMAZING and I even liked the sub-plot!
XD I mean I couldn’t help but wonder why Josh was the way he was with his family but when I finally found out it all made sense!
XDAnd because I don’t want to spoil anything I’ll write my thoughts about the ending in a spoiler tag.
;-P At least if you still want to read the book.
"I wish I could use my thumbs to pull his mouth into a huge deranged grin. As the police drag me out in handcuffs I'll be screeching, Smile, goddamn you."  Imagine being so riled by someone that you end up thinking things like the above on a near-hourly basis. That is the kind of relationship the male and female lead in this book have with each other. They're the executive assistants to the joint heads of their company, and are forced to share cubicle space right outside their offices.Which wo
The Mirror Game - where the male lead subtly mimics every move the female lead makes, only on a slight time delay.
I do, however, see where some readers might take issue with Josh, the male lead, as a romantic interest.
He's pretty terrible to Lucy, the female lead, at times, especially in the beginning.
Lucy actively looks for ways to one-up Josh.
Josh, for his part, is obviously trying to get a different reaction from Lucy, and it's not really clear until things begin to change between them what this reaction is.
Love and hate are a fine line, after all.
Normally I hate chick-lity romance, but this is one of those fantastic exceptions that makes me want to reconsider my usual reluctance to read this genre.In fact, I loved it so much I started to wonder:Apparently, I'm really late to The Hating Game party.
And nothing, nothing, makes my heart pitty-pat as hard as a couple who start out with a mutual disgust for each other.Well, these two definitely had the loathing thing down pat.
If you're looking for a fantastic romance novel that will keep you smiling throughout, this is the book for you.
read this for the 3rd time so...probably time to round up that 4.5------------------------------just reread this and i stand by this review.especially the rapunzel gif.------------------------------Oh my gosh.https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...This book was a blast and a half.
But I’d like to think I am sometimes at least almost as cute as Rapunzel.This book was, yes, of course, a lil trope-y.
And the thing I was the very most worried about was the whole you’re-a-jerk-but-I’m-a-pretty-and-nice-girl-and-I-can-change-you-it’s-not-your-fault-you-had-a-dark-past trope.
It’s just not the worst.And Josh’s lady friend Lucy was a little trope-y too.
I’m going to call for the elimination of another trope now: STOP ACTING LIKE HAVING “CRAZY HAIR” IS A BAD THING.
AMAZING NEWS!!!!!!!!! The Hating Game is coming to the big screen! https://deadline.com/2018/07/the-simp... MY DREAM CAST 😍  I didn't love this. No. I need a stronger word than love. Obsessed? Infatuated? Giddy? Whatever, take your pick. But Oh My Joshua, I am crazy for everything about this book. The writing, the humor, the lust, the sexual tension, the emotion, the slow delicious burn. This is probably the best enemies to lovers story I have ever read.Lucy Hutton and Josh Templeman work toget
But Oh My Joshua, I am crazy for everything about this book.
This is probably the best enemies to lovers story I have ever read.Lucy Hutton and Josh Templeman work together at Gamin Publishing and Bexley Books and they have hated each other from the moment they met.
But reading about these two falling in love?
I want to make a fool of myself over you.”"The first smile Joshua's ever had in my presence is pressed against my lips.""I love him so much it's like a thread piercing me.
Joshua Templeman is a GOD and I love him unlike anyone or anything.
“I have a theory. Hating someone feels disturbingly similar to being in love with them. I've had a lot of time to compare love and hate, and these are my observations.Love and hate are visceral.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Sometimes (but rarely) when I finish a book, I think: I’d love to read this again. Like, right now.Is it too early to already start a reread? Yes? Well, but I want to. (My tbr-shelf is probably hating me right now)But... It was so freaking perfect. ♥If you want to have a feel-nice-book then
♥️If you want to have a feel-nice-book then take this masterpiece and read it!
a bit while reading the book)It’s about a boy and a girl who work with each other, both assistants and both have something in common: they hate each other.
But when things start to get chaotic Lucy isn’t so sure about her hate for Josh anymore.
Argh😍Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️If you’re searching for the absolute perfect man who you’ll love more than anyone, then stop looking because I found him and his name is Joshua Templeman.
it was like I read this complete book from my own point of view.
this makes me happy on so many levels.i promise to have and hold this book (often taking it off the bookshelf and flipping through it pages), from this day forward, for better or worse (when other books may tempt me or try to lead me astray), for richer or poorer (when i can afford new books, i will reread this first), i promise to love and cherish (it will always have a 5 stars rating), till death do us part.
gosh, this book makes me so cheesy and i dont even care.
↠ 5 stars
4.5 STARSI've been seeing The Hating Game plastered across my Goodreads feed for well over a year now and avoided it solely due to my phase of being constantly disappointed by the majorly hyped books.
You heard me, I'm a walking, talking cliche and I'm not ashamed to admit it.There's not really much to go into regarding the plot here, as you pretty much get the details you need from the synopsis, but this book is just what it sounds like, a book all about two people concentrating on winning "The Hating Game", a past time where they spend every free moment plotting on how to sabotage one another.
I listened to the audiobook version and spent the day smiling like a loon while everyone in my house wondered what was so entertaining about doing the laundry.
I laughed my ass off listening to their back and forth, passive aggressive banter.
I mean, I always knew that it was there, but waiting for it to evolve in the story was killer.
These two definitely had a love-hate relationship and I knew that they would be explosive when they finally got on the same page.I have to say that I was not disappointed, at all.
THIS WAS SO CUTE!!!
"I want to know what's going on in your brain. I want to juice your head like a lemon."  ➦This is Sally Thorne's debut novel and I have to say - job well done! I love romcoms and this one certainly hit the spot. A book about two co-workers battling it out in the office. You see, there is an opening for a job which they both want. Let the games begin.  "-What are you imagining? Your expression is filthy.""-Stangling you. Bare hands."  ➦Lucy is a sweetheart and a people pleaser. So why is it so
➦This is Sally Thorne's debut novel and I have to say - job well done!
❤The novel is written from Lucy's POV and I loved her thoughts - they were entertaining and on point.
:) This novel is a bit low on steam, you won't find phrases like "he stuck his cock in my vagina and pumped hard." It will be along the lines of "he moved inside me with a delicious rhythm." It was tastefully done, I had no problem with it.
Perhaps I was so in love with the characters that I didn't want the novel to end.
The novel follows the relationship of Lucy and Josh rivals in life and the "workplace." I put workplace in brackets because the two leads rarely do anything but stare at each other and play immature games in the same vain as 2 year old boy pulling the hair of a girl he has a crush on.
It's like ya ya I know how sex works.
This book likes to play with the notion that there is a thin line between love and hate and the two can easily be misconstrued.
We’re told that Lucy haaates Josh, but there’s nothing substantial to back that up, and she kinda just tells the reader HE’S HORRIBLE AND ANNOYING AND I’VE HATED HIM FOR YEARS AND HE’S THE WORST but we never actually see anything he does that’s bad or annoying, he literally just sits at his desk.Usually when books try to be quirky and humorous, I’m gagging and it and rolling my eyes.
It was so refreshing to fall in love with characters rather than feel like I'm reading a regurgitation of every romantic story I've ever consumed.
I wouldn’t say I fell madly in love with it like most people did but it was fun.
Personally speaking, and this is purely a personal taste, I get painfully and utterly bored with books where the entirety of the plot revolves around two people and their inevitable end together.
Eh. What I liked:Lucie and Josh.
What I didn’t like:That Josh was too perfect.
I get trying to lure readers into loving him and going all ga ga over him but this was a few steps too far for my liking.
I didn’t like how Lucie worshiped him.
Review at Of Pens and Pages. Reasons why I loved The Hating Game  1. Lucy Hutton2. Josh Templeman3. The banter4. The chemistry5. SLOW.BURN.6. Matchbox cars7. Smurfs8. White, off-white stripe, cream, pale yellow, mustard, baby blue, robin's egg blue, dove-gray, navy, and black business shirts9. CUDDLING10. Hate to loveI devoured this book. Completely devoured it. I was looking for a slow-burn, hate to love office romance, and this was it. I am so happy right now, you guys. I'm literally grinning
Once upon a time, in a desperate move to avoid financial ruin, Gamin Publishing and Bexley Books merged companies to form Bexley & Gamin, and Lucy Hutton, the executive assistant to the CEO of Gamin Publishing, ended up sharing her office with Joshua Templeman, the executive assistant to the CEO of Bexley Books.
Like their home companies, while Lucy handles her job with a smile, Joshua handles his with a frown and a glare.
Polar opposites.For as long as Lucy can remember, she and Joshua have been each other's nemesis.
Lucy and Joshua's banters are so witty and funny and damn it, they give as much as the other does.
I adored both characters and their fall but those games were such a good time over 5 stars for entertainment value.When two companies merge mixing stuffy suit types with the creative people of a publishing firm Lucy Hutton finds herself facing off against Joshua Templeman the main suits right hand man daily.
As Lucy and Joshua start to get closer the line between love and hate starts to blur.
The infatuation in the game and their fall into love is epic and unforgettable as Lucy starts to see Joshua for who he truly is.
I dare you not to fall in love with Lucy and Joshua!
Okay, seriously . . .? This book was AMAZING. It's so hard to find a fun, clever contemporary romance that doesn't at least occasionally cross over into cornball territory.Lucy was a tiny little spitfire, Josh was just damaged enough to be interesting without being angsty, and together they alternately hys-freaking-terical and so adorable I literally CANNOT EVEN. Sally Thorne . . . I've got my eye on you, woman. *tips hat*Full RTC.
01/22/18:Even better the second time reading.
Josh and Lucy are too cute and so much fun to hang with.
Sigh.Initial ReviewThere's a new kid on the Rom-Com scene and her name is Sally Thorne.
Holy molly!This book...aww...this book.Firstly, the dialogue was insane.
Freaking insane.
No word was misplaced or unwarranted.
All were perfectly placed.Secondly, the plot.
So simple yet so riveting.
Two colleagues who seemingly can't abide each other but ah..
Thorne makes the premise so fresh you can't but cheer them on.
Thirdly, the love and the feels.
No unnecessary angst, just pure emotions that ooze from both protagonists.
Abso-freaking-lutely breathtaking.
5-I-HATE-THIS-HATING-GAME-BOOK-SO-MUCH!!!I  hate  this book.I  hate  these characters.I  hate  the way they made me feel.I  hate  how adorable Josh is.I  hate  how cute Lucy is.I  hate  how I'm in love with their cuteness.I  hate  how I read this book in just one sitting (or should I say lying).I  hate  their stupid but smexy games.I  hate  Sally Thorne.I  hate  how smitten I've been in the last 12 hours.Last but not the least,I  hate  that I  LOVED  this book sooo freaking much!!!This kind of b
5-I-HATE-THIS-HATING-GAME-BOOK-SO-MUCH!!!I 
  hate
 this book.I 
  hate
 these characters.I 
  hate
 the way they made me feel.I 
  hate
 how adorable Josh is.I 
  hate
 how cute Lucy is.I 
  hate
 how I'm in love with their cuteness.I 
  hate
 how I read this book in just one sitting (or should I say lying).I 
  hate
 their stupid but smexy games.I 
  hate
 Sally Thorne.I 
  hate
 how smitten I've been in the last 12 hours.Last but not the least,I 
  hate
 that I 
  LOVED
 this book sooo freaking much!!!This kind of book should be illegal. I 
  hate
 it.
I kept seeing The Hating Game on my Twitter, Instagram, and Goodreads timeline and since it's been gathering high ratings, of course my curiosity was piqued.Lucy Hutton and Joshua Templeman, both executive assistants to the co-owners of Bexley & Gamin, have always been at a clash with each other.
But everything turned to chaos when their daily banters slowly converted into strange attraction and irresistible sexual tension.Despite the usual tropes -- office romance and enemies to lovers, the author was able to bring life to the story through her fun and quirky characters.
Sally Thorn went to Hogwarts, learned witchery, and came back and applied her lessons while writing this book and cursed every person who reads it to inevitably fall in love with both Josh and the book, and as hard as the first time they read it. Honestly we should sue.
Josh was *gasp* secretly in love with her all along, but instead of doing something radical like being nice, he embarks on a third-grader's idea of wooing women.
And Lucy is cute in a way that I finally understand why people hate Zooey Deschanel's characters.
Lucy and Josh both agree Nice Guys are overrated.
We need more Nice Guys in fiction and real life because a healthy relationship is sexy.
-Telling me their bodies fit together for the 1,457,872th time-Lucy objectifying Josh to the point that HE gets uncomfortable She keeps on doing it even after he voices this.
❝Hating someone feels disturbingly similar to being in love with them. I've had a lot of time to compare love and hate, and these are my observations.Love and hate are visceral. Your stomach twists at the thought of that person. The heart in your chest beats heavy and bright, nearly visible through your flesh and clothes. Your appetite and sleep are schredded. Every interaction spikes your blood with adrenaline, and you're in the brink of fight or flight. Your body is barely under your control
You're consumed, and it scares you.Both love and hate are mirror versions of the same game — and you have to win.
Okay, I did NOT expect to love The Hating Game as much as I did.
I needed to read something light and fluffy, and this was the perfect book for me.The Hating Game was like the romantic comedy movie that you would watch with your girlfriends when you're having a sleepover.
The Hating Game was such an extraordinary debut novel, and I expect great things from her!
After The Hating Game, I already know that Sally Thorne is an auto-buy author for me.
Why do you keep pretending that New adult reads like A court of Mist and Fury and in this case The hating game are something that they aren't?
Readers like to read sex scenes and the readers who prefer clean reads should know what they're getting into.This book isn't chick lit IMHO.
A court of mist and fury is New adult no matter if you publish under a children's imprint name and any reader or GR librarian who denies it is lying.So this New adult/erotica book coud have passed as chick lit had the erotic scenes been less graphic (no complaining!
