https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5907.The_Hobbit
It teases and hints at something larger and grander, and it instructs and lectures as from one of the most subtle intellects without ever feeling like it is instructing, lecturing or being condescending.At its heart, the complaint I opened the review with is just a variation on one of the many nuanced observations Tolkien makes in 'The Hobbit' when he complains that a story of a good time is always too quickly told, but a story of evil times often requires a great many words to cover the events thereof.
How often has that idea fascinated me.Consider also how the story opens, with Bilbo's breezy unreflective manners which are polite in form but not in spirit, and Gandalf's continual meditation on the meaning of 'Good morning.’ How much insight is concealed within Gandalf's gentle humor!
Dear Tolkien fans: please don't leave a comment if you're going to spew hatred - I'll just delete it. I'm glad you enjoy Tolkien's work, but I am actually allowed to feel this way, no matter how scandalous you find that idea. Thank you. To be fair, it really is a cool story. Mr Tolkien’s imagination is endless and I respect him immensely for that. To be able to conjure a whole new, magical world and all these creatures in it.. absolutely amazing. But it is also a very long-winded story and I fou
Dear Tolkien fans: please don't leave a comment if you're going to spew hatred - I'll just delete it.
To be fair, it really is a cool story.
But it is also a very long-winded story and I found myself struggling to get the job done.
The story in itself is pretty great, but the way it is told makes the magic disappear.
Maybe it was the way it was written, or the fact that they take a long time before anything happens.
Dear Merlin, the songs!
In any case, still a cool story.
In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. Books exist in time and place and our experience of them is affected by the specific time and place in which we encounter them. Sometimes an uplifting or inspiring book can change the path of a life that has wandered onto a wrong course. Sometimes a book, discovered early on, can form part of the foundation of who we are. Or, discovered late, can offer insight into the journey we have taken to date. Sometimes a book is just a book. But not The Hobbi
It was also, of course, a gateway drug for the grander addiction of LOTR, still my favorite read of all time.
After all, I have read literally thousands of books since, and have picked up at least a little critical capacity.
I well recall reading the book aloud while sitting in a chair by my son's bed.
Maybe one day you can sit by your child's or grandchild's bedside and be the person who reads these words to them for the first time, "In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit" and begin the adventure again.
There are some days when I actually think that the humble Hobbit is superior to it's bohemoth brother,  The Lord of the Rings . It's a much tighter story, and Bilbo is a much more appeal character than is Frodo. I also just love this poem, from The HobbitFar over the misty mountains coldTo dungeons deep and caverns oldWe must away ere break of dayTo seek the pale enchanted gold.The dwarves of yore made mighty spells,While hammers fell like ringing bellsIn places deep, where dark things sleep,In
There are some days when I actually think that the humble Hobbit is superior to it's bohemoth brother, 
The Lord of the Rings
. It's a much tighter story, and Bilbo is a much more appeal character than is Frodo.
Funny I didn't take to wearing rings though...Being pint-sized, Mr. Baggins makes the perfect magnetic character for a young person.
I have read this fantastic tale a number of times, watched the 70s cartoon movie version countless times and was counting down the days with unabashed eagerness until Peter Jackson's new live action film came out.
I will continue to read The Hobbit again and again, for the road goes ever, ever on...Appendix-ish type reviewsThe Hobbit, the 1977 animated film version by Rankin & BassThis may be the movie I've watched the most in my life.
Peter Jackson was given too long a leash when New Line stretched this one book out to three separate movies.
JUST AMAZING! FUN AND BEAUTIFUL ADVENTURE! I HAD TO READ THE END AGAIN BECAUSE OF MY LOVEhow they made three films out of this impresses me!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Were it not for the irresistible allure of The Fellowship of the Ring, I'd start reading this book all over again right now. <3
The peoples are diverse and contrasting; I think the differences between the elves and the dwarves are best captured in their music.
In this, I think Tolkien cements the message of the story; it is not about the tragic death of a dwarf who went slightly mad, and then redeemed himself; it is not about a boatman who slayed a dragon, and became a renowned hero: it is about a Hobbit.
It may have shocked the reader that the sequel was about more Hobbits and not about the Dwarves.
I probably won't write a full review here, as this is just a reread for me, but I found this just as enchanting as the first time I read it.
While I still like this one only SLIGHTLY less than The Lord of the Rings, I'm glad I took the opportunity to read this first before diving into a reread of LOTR this year.
Highly recommended to anyone who may not have read this yet; Tolkien's world building and storytelling skills are rarely matched and aimed for all ages.
This book?Precious.
Maybe one day soon I'll write a proper review of The Hobbit.In the meantime, I want to say this:If you are a child, you need to read this for Gollum's riddles.If you are an adult, you need to read this book to children (if you don't have children, rent borrow some) for at least one opportunity to roleplay Gollum.Becuz  GOLLUM ROOOLZ!!!!!   See here, he even won an award!!  (PS. Since Gollum features so strongly in this review,  here  is an interesting video on the acting and CGI genius that went
is an interesting video on the acting and CGI genius that went into the making of the screen Gollum.)Of course the most compelling reason to add this to your reading list in haste is that it's coming to the MOOVIEZZZ!!
(Update: commentary on the moviez below).Btw, if you like kickass fighting elves, not to mention pretty kickass she-elves and some sizzling elf/dwarf romance--well, then you might like the second Hobbit movie more than the book...
The whole thing seemed like actiony rubbish, though I personally actually quite enjoyed the swinging, shooting, swordfighting ninja elves and the bit of romance.But the THIRD film, The Battle of the Five Armies , now -that- was a good one.
The book is almost always better than the movie, and The Hobbit is the prime example of this sentiment. I have spoken.
The book, even for a slow reader is most likely able to be finished in 1/3 the time that Peter Jackson spent telling the story in 70mm film.
The Hobbit should be read as the Odyssey of Middle Earth - a voyage of self-learning and maturation that is more about the monsters in Bilbo's imagination than those encountered in his baptismal voyage into the unknown with Gandalf.
Bilbo does encounter some monsters and even outsmarts Smaug the Dragon (wow, I mean what a perfect name for a dragon!
Now I don't remember all the names of those 13 dwarfs, but still I can legitimately say I enjoyed the book.
The Hobbit (the version rewritten by Tolkien) is sophisticated enough to please adults and children alike.Initially, nobody knew how Gollum looked like.
Seriously, just take a look at the various covers of the book and you'll see diverse bodies as Gollum.
The Ring acquired by Bilbo is so quaint, so practical.Tolkien weaved his magic here and delivered a timeless classic.
The adventures of Bilbo, especially those without Gandalf to bail him out, are very original.
I give this book a perfect five stars.
This story is associated with only beautiful things in my mind, in fact the whole time writing this review I can’t help but think of sunny spring fields and cold breezes.I loved the world in this book and I mean this book, because I haven’t read the other Middle Earth books but I still love it, it was so vast and beautiful, it wouldn’t be the same journey if it was set in a different world.I feel I’m not doing the other characters justice because so far I only talked about Bilbo but the truth is I love them all.
610. The Hobbit = There and Back Again, J.R.R. TolkienThe Hobbit, or There and Back Again is a children's fantasy novel by English author J. R. R. Tolkien. It was published on 21 September 1937 to wide critical acclaim, being nominated for the Carnegie Medal and awarded a prize from the New York Herald Tribune for best juvenile fiction. The book remains popular and is recognized as a classic in children's literature.عنوان: هابیت - آنجا و بازگشت دوباره؛ جی.آر.آر. تالکین؛ ادبیات فانتزی انگلستان بر
تالکین؛ ادبیات فانتزی انگلستان برای نوجوانان؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2004 میلادیمترجمین هابیت: رضا علیزاده؛ نازنین پوریان؛ سپیده حبیبی؛ فرزاد فرید؛ شاهده سعیدی؛ پریا آقاسی بیگ؛ ماه منیر فتحی؛نمیدانم چندبار این هابیت را خوانده ام، همیشه تا نام بیلبو را میشنوم پرواز میکنم، لابد شمایان هم فیلمش را دیده ایدهابیت‌ها گونه‌ ای از موجودات خیالی در رمان‌های تالکین هستند که در سرزمین میانه و شایر زندگی می‌کنند.
هابیت‌ها نخستین بار در کتاب هابیت تالکین مطرح شدند.
شخصیت اصلی این داستان، بیلبو بگینز هابیتی ست که ماجراهایی دارد.
شخصیت اصلی مجموعه ی ارباب حلقه‌ ها، فرودو بگینز نیز یک هابیت است.
Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor yet a dry, bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat: it was a hobbit-hole, and that means comfort.”So begins J.R.R. Tolkien’s love letter to fantasy literature.A reader to this timeless classic will first notice that this is a first person narration, the reader hears Tolkien’s voice as he narrates the tale of Bilbo Baggins, Belladonna Took’s odd son who, though he resembles his respectable and comfortable father, has an unexpected adventure in him.
J.R.R. Tolkien is telling us a story, with an occasional soliloquy and off stage remark to us the reader.This of course is the charming and entertaining prequel to Tolkien’s monumental fantasy trilogy, The Lord of the Rings, but a fine tale in its own right and by itself.
They sort of made sense, but not quite.Then, when I was 21, I learned Swedish, and suddenly there were many things in Middle Earth that came into focus!
Of course, the Wargs get their name from the Swedish varg, wolf.
And "Beorn" is like björn, bear.But I never figured out why Bilbo was teasing the spiders in Mirkwood by calling them "attercop".
It's an archaic English word related to the modern Norwegian word for spider, edderkopp.
See how much fun it is to acquire a new language?__________________________________If you want to know what I think of Peter Jackson's three Hobbit movies, look here, here and here.
Where there's life there's hope. I've been thinking a lot of how many stars giving to the book, since there were parts that I loved a lot, but there were others that I found tedious and even anti-climatic, but in respect to this great writer, J.R.R. Tolkien, I think that the book deserves at least 4-stars rating with which I feel easy since I am not giving it a full rating but also I am not punishing it for things that maybe a future re-reading will solve. In a hole in the ground there lived a
And even more interesting to choose its point of development, since the core books like this one, The Hobbit and the following trilogy of The Lord of the Rings, are located in an time where the magic is leaving the Middle-Earth and the age of men is becoming the important one.
But hey, if you create such powerful character you have to live with him/her, I mean, if you will have troubles to think about adventures involving him/her, well, then, at least, let's present him/her as a passing character like Elrond, but when you have Gandalf in the travelling group, it's even more notorious the conflicts of the author when that character is dissapearing and appearing.In here, about Smaug's fate...
Terms: cash on delivery up to and not exceeding one fourteenth of total profits (if any); all travelling expenses guaranteed in any event; funeral expenses to be defrayed by us or our represented, if occasion arises and the matter is not otherwise arranged for.Or another gem:"Where did you go to, if I may ask?" said Thorin to Gandalf as they road along"To look ahead." said he"And what brought you back in the nick of time?""Looking behind." Chapter three: A short restWhat I love about this chapter is that it establishes my favourite ship, Bilbo X Rivendell.
I discussed this novel with my book club, Austentatious, here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vvG4...

Unpopular opinion time: I don't like The Hobbit.Before all of you start hating me forever, please, hear me out.
So you can see why I really wanted to like this book.
I wanted to like it so much, in fact, that I have tried to read it three times now.
3) I've already seen the movies.Now before you shout, "SACRILEGE, HOW CAN YOU LIKE THE MOVIES AND NOT THE BOOK!" let me reiterate the fact that I've tried reading this book three times.
It's just not for me.(And no, I will not try to finish this book again.
this is not a review.this is smack-talk.me and a buddy saw the first two films in the peter jackson trilogy (for a second time) this weekend. he says he loves actor lee pace just like i do, but that his character, thranduil, was campy as fuck and also what the hell were they even thinking?to which i reply:y'all know i like 'em long, lean, and unavailable.aint nobody gon' talk shyt 'bout muh boo.ACTIVATE MEME BATTURR
In certain crowds, my rating and the words I'm about to write (well, type) would probably get me shot. But The Hobbit is still one of the most boring books I have ever read. Tolkien's writing seems so dry and impersonal, though I can't deny he had a lot of fascinating ideas.
Albus Dumbledore from Harry Potter is probably the most famous example and yes, he would not exist without Gandalf.Anyhow, for reasons entirely unclear through the whole book Gandalf decided to involve poor hobbit into a grand adventure - the kind where heroes go from a mortal danger to being miserable from hunger and weather having just escaped said danger and to yet another mortal danger again, still remaining miserable.
And so off to a grand adventure Bilbo went, accompanied by 12 dwarves and Gandalf himself who kept them company only part way.
There's no way this is a 1 star novel like I previously rated it; however, there's no way it's five stars either.When I started my fourth "re-read," I could immediately tell I was going to enjoy the story more this time than I had previously.
The writing grabbed me and I wanted to know where the journey would go...
I felt as though I wanted more to happen, but not in an adventurous way.So, am I glad I finally enjoyed this?
In my defense, I didn't enjoy  The Lord of the Ring's  either, so I didn't really expect to like this...
Below is actually a review of the first of the trilogy of movies following The Hobbit (kinda).-----------------There have been lots of thoughts on this movie already, but I felt I needed to add my two cents, because, well, lots of people are just plain wrong.Okay, maybe people have good reason to be disappointed with The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, but I wanted to tell you why you shouldn't be.
I think we all had a bit of an inkling that the film version of our beloved book, The Hobbit, wasn't quite going to follow the book precisely when we learned it was going to be two movies.
However I decided to continue with one thought circling in my head, "it's just a bit of fun".
Whenever I came across a passage with trolls or dragons or the such I remembered that it's all in good fun.
Slowly I began enjoying myself as the pages went on and I found myself in some ways engrossed in this novel, only to be taken out of the narrative by another fucking song.
I suppose I did enjoy it in parts.
However I might need a bit of coaxing to begin that other series of his.
