https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29405093-the-girl-with-the-lower-back-tattoo
I liked this book more than Amy Poehler's or Issa Rae's or Ellen DeGeneres' or Sloane Crosley's or Laurie Notaro's. I liked it less than Mindy Kaling's or Caitlin Moran's or Lindy West's or Roxane Gay's or Jessi Klein's or Melissa Broder's or Tina Fey's. But more than anything else I am grateful that there are so many interesting, troubled, funny, wise, extraordinary female voices that I can read and relate to and be horrified and inspired by.
How to write a successful book:1. Nude photo of self on cover2. Clever title parody3. Put words inside
Did I really need to listen to her TIME SCHEDULE of her work day with her staff....of peeing, listening to staff going down on girls, talking about their lunch, playing on YouTube, and eating snacks?
Oh and the 40 plus things Amy listed that we don't know about her were only semi-interesting.
......as for the 'way' Amy 'started' her book?......PLEASE,....MY GOD.....Sharing with us about forgiving her vagina?
A plus for AMY!I thought everything she shared about her father was 'awful' ...
A minus for Amy!I thought her sharing about her 'experience' of losing her virginity was sad, unfair, unfortunate to say the least.
Brilliant title, brilliant writingI've never seen Amy Schumer's comedy, aside from a couple of clips. From what I can tell, I would instantly dislike her. I don't get her humor - there's too much genitalia and crass jokes. Yet.Her Book. Surprised me. I know my worth. I embrace my power. I say if I'm beautiful. I say if I'm strong. You will not determine my story. I will.   I am convinced that we would not only get along but become long-time friends. I was riveted by the peek into her childhood.
Brilliant title, brilliant writingI've never seen Amy Schumer's comedy, aside from a couple of clips.
She conveys the joyful highs and heartbreaking lows  as her once affluent family plummeted into poverty.We see a bit of her early comedic life and how she found her niche.
She has no problems switching from the hilarity of her first real joke to the disparity of learning her father's fate.
I have rarely seen a celebrity speak with such honesty and raw emotion about the toil that long-term disease takes on a family.
And her comedic timing made all the difference!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
I really don't know why I bought this. I don't even watch Amy Schumer's stuff, but for some reason, I thought this would be hilarious. But to be honest I was just bored. I didn't end up finishing it. I got about halfway through when I said to myself, 'you could be reading something else right now' and that was that.
Now that that’s out of the way let’s talk about the book, shall we?As most of you know I am an oldie (but a goodie) and also a reality television aficionado.
If you liked Lena Dunham’s book (well, you know before the world collectively lost its shit about her looking at her sister’s vag) you might like this one as well.
♪♫this is where my poop comes out♪♫I was expecting her to make me laugh with stories about her sex life.
“I don’t usually like female comics.” That one really gets to me.
I'm about a 3.75 here, so I rounded up because she makes me laugh.Because I spend more time reading and going to the movies than watching television, I'll admit I was a little bit late to the party where Amy Schumer was concerned.
And I am all of you."Schumer made me laugh out loud more than a few times (if you're a fan, don't read this on public transportation unless you don't mind people thinking you're losing your mind), she made me chuckle and smile quite a bit, made me a little uncomfortable sometimes, and beyond that, made me think.
I didn’t really know much about Schumer before I started listening to this book -- I’m definitely more of a reader than a tv or movie watcher.
But her voice and her perspective made me like Schumer – I especially liked her honest assessment of her relationships with her mother and father, and her strong love for her sister.
It was well worth listening to even though I didn’t laugh at all the jokes, and Schumer was a good companion on my morning walks to work.
Since I picked up this book I've learned she's a comedian, she has her own show, an HBO special, and she starred in and wrote the movie Trainwreck.
So why did I listen to this book?
Now, I LOVE this girl.
She's strong, she works hard, (really, really hard), she's (brutally) honest, she has a heart and most importantly she loves herself.
She wants YOU to love yourself.
She also doesn't want any more people to be shot while at a theater watching her movie.
What's not to love?
Love yourself ladies!
2.5 Ok to InterestingFor Amy's die hard fans.
If you don't know who she or don't appreciate her particular humor then I would not recommend.
Amy Schumer is a well known stand-up comedian in the US.
So, I can say that I like her but I am not a fan.
I believe it is the best way to go with this book as she is the most a fitting person to let us know how to read her memoir.
It is probably not the best celebrity memoir (this is my first) but it has interesting insights in Amy's life and some good advice for life in general.
I’m a Summer!)Amy Schumer is just the BEST.
A list of topics Amy covers in the book would be downright depressing: rape, terminal illness, bad parenting, domestic abuse, and gun violence are all on the menu, and she somehow covers everything in an uproarious way without ever making light of it.
Thus is the genius of Amy Schumer.
I’m trying so, so hard to come up with a way to explain it that isn’t horribly corny.
(This is why Amy Schumer has the book deal and not me, guys.)As I always do with celebrity memoirs, I heartily recommend you listen to the audio version.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI keep picking up these memoirs written by my favorite female comedians expecting them to be funny, and then the memoir inevitably turns out to be a "I may be a funny person for a living, but I'm so much more - let me list out the innermost details of my psyche for your pleasure so you can understand my soul" type of deal. Which is fine. I can totally understand why comedians would want to do that. I'm sure you have off days where you don't
I'm sure you have off days where you don't want to be funny, where the last thing you want to do is laugh, where you'd like to talk politics seriously without being expected to toss out a Hillary Clinton/Donald Trump joke.
But on the other hand, that's exactly why people are suckered into these memoirs.People like me.Even when she's in "funny mode", Amy Schumer is one of those celebrities you will likely love or hate.
But hey, it certainly gets her noticed.Going back to this memoir, Amy decides to turn "funny mode" down a few bars.
(I get it, a life can’t be easily sorted into chapters, but YOU CAN’T TELL THE SAME STORIES MULTIPLE TIMES.) And it got less funny as the book went on.
But all of that was more than made up for by how impressively Schumer covered serious topics.Also, she included a bunch of annotated journal entries from different points in her life, and I love footnotes so that was amazing.
I love Bill Hader behind the scenes stuff.Bottom line: this book was SO GOOD.
I can guarantee it won’t be quite what you’d expect, but that’s a good thing here.I know it’s not cool to like Amy Schumer anymore, and I totally get why it’s not.
Was this book supposed to make me laugh?
I've based my rating of Amy's book entirely on how it left me feeling, and I just have this warm glow in my chest and I smiled too much while reading the last paragraph and, I'm not gonna lie, I got all teary once it ended.
I felt like this when I finished reading Amy Poehler's memoir too--just warm and glowing and grateful.
(this might be the cheesiest thing you read today but I don't care, I loved this book and I love Amy Schumer and I just wanted to gush for a second ok)
It felt like talking to one of my female friends over wine and reminiscing about our mistakes and our triumphs and all the ways in which we have grown since then (and as far as I can tell after listening to Amy Schumer tell her story, I am very sure she would be pleased with that description).The best parts of the book were not her jokes but the times when she was painfully honest about her life.
I have seen Amy Schumer in a few things (SNL, movies, etc.) and enjoyed them, but I am not sure if her brand of comedy is for me in an 8 hour audio dose.
This book is for you if you don't mind crude comedy interspersed with serious monologues about sexual assault, gun control, broken homes, etc.
And, I know Amy doesn't give a crap if I feel that way because she says so in the book).
If these are not for you, you may want to check out Amy Poehler or Tina Fey instead.
3.5 Unsurprisingly blunt and funny.
But surprisingly sentimental and heartfelt at times.
I thought the two chapters about her mom and dad were some of the best writing and when I felt like I was really getting to know her as a person.
There were some messages in here that are all well and good but not wholly original; I felt like I'd read them in previous memoirs.
Absorbing and a great read if you're in the mood for a laugh or maybe even a cry, and you'll probably end up crying from laughing too.
This is an easy book to recommend: If you like Amy Schumer's comedy, you will enjoy this book.Wait, I'm going to add to that: If you like Amy Schumer because she's a female performer who likes to talk about sex and relationships and confront gender stereotypes, then you will probably like this book.Miss Schumer's career has really taken off in the last few years — her movie "Trainwreck" was fun, her TV show "Inside Amy Schumer" is still going strong, and she had her first comedy special for HBO.So, naturally, it's time to put out a book.
Her comic timing made this a fun and thoughtful listen.Schumer's comedy persona is a woman who likes men and sex, and someone who drinks and swears a lot.
I have been reading a lot of comedy books and not loving them, but I really enjoyed this book.Amy Schumer is someone that I knew very little about.
But I am glad I requested and read it :) It was well worth my time.The title of the book: The Girl with the Lower Back Tattoo, comes from when Amy got a terrible lower back tattoo in high school.
This book was not only funny, but really deep and personal.
I loved reading about Amy's life and I hope she writes a second book.
Or, "Robbie's got it  bad for Amy!" (Not so much, really.
I really like "Inside Amy Schumer" in teeny doses, but all of her stand-up vagina jokes just intimidate me; besides, I've {embarrassingly enough} already got it  bad for another female empowerment advocate, Caitlin Moran).So why the 5 stars?Simply put, I don't ever recall reading a celebrity memoir as consistently engaging and as candid as  The Girl with the Lower Back Tattoo.
Okay, never mind; I guess I really  do have it bad for Amy. I just never really realized it until reading this remarkably funny and poignant memoir.
Even though this season of her show has been a little message-y, and her movie about an author named Spence (that's an inside joke for readers in the know) wasn't as sharp as it could have been, I'm actually really looking forward to this book. The title is hilarious though.Plus, guys, she's doing a movie with J. Law.
Another celebrity memoir in the form of essays hit the stand.The book is good, some parts are funny, some are sad.
Amy shares a lot of stories about her childhood, how her parents lost their fortune and began all over again.
She describes her lovers, her one night stand, the athletes and musicians she was with.
Amy talks about how she became a stand up comedian and how it was hard and it took her years to perfect her routine.
Trainwreck is discussed along with the horrible shooting that took place during a screening of Trainwreck.
When I started reading this book, I had no idea who Amy Schumer was.
I was sent a review copy unsolicited (and I was thrilled about that, btw), and a friend of mine told me that Amy Schumer is a famous comedian.
I was so pleased to find out that this autobiography is just as fantastic as Amy Schumer's humour is.
I'm so happy I was sent this book, and I'm so happy that I now know of Amy Schumer - I'm pretty sure that she and I would become best friends if we ever met :)
I expected laughs coming out of my butt and instead I got a relative dud.
I did not see that coming!I am a fan of Amy Schumer, yes warts and all*, and so I expected to love this book.
There is a lot of time spent on her mom and dad, who are honestly more interesting people than Amy comes off as in this book.She's just not a truly wild and crazy gal.
I chose to listen to this in audiobook format, because I feel like you should always read a comedian's book that way.
I expected something just straight up funny and silly, but the book had some surprising depth to it.
The best chapter by far, in my opinion, is "The Worst Night of My Life", where she details a particularly horrible night with her abusive ex.
She goes on to emphasize how abusive relationships can happen to ANYONE, even those who have always considered themselves "strong-ass women" such as herself.
I thought that was a really important message to put out there, because there is so often the belief that only weak, submissive women end up in abusive relationships when that is truly not the case at all.
Amy Schumer spends a lot of time driving the point that who she is "in real life" is far from the brassy, slutty persona she has created in her stand-up and that she plays up for laughs.
I had to skim through her love for ugly stuffed animals, the difference between old and new money, and other inane chapters that prove once again the cynicism of the celebrity industry wanting to cash in on the latest pop culture fifteen-minute grasper, filling pages and pages with absolutely nothing to say.
This book wasn't terrible, but aside from being slightly comedic, I found it to be absolutely unmemorable. It seems like one of those books that make a brief surge into bestselling popularity, which quickly dies down within a very short time.
I laughed, I was grossed out, I nodded along in agreement and (with any good memoir) there were sad moments too.
I felt like I was sitting right next to Amy (Oh AND we are BFFS in this delusion) and she's filling me on her life stories.
She throws F#CK around like it's going out of style and I do appreciate a good F bomb now and again.
That part was refreshingly honest and I greatly appreciated (selfishly) those moments.
Overall, an interesting memoir- one that was humorous and one I was glad I listened to.
This was bad, y'all. More like a shoddily written blog than a book (that had more than a million attached to it, what's more!)
