https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15015.Conversations_with_God
When I was going through the roughest spiritual time in my life, this book not only restored my faith in myself as a minister and my ministry in general, but restored my faith in God.It also showed me the God I always wanted to believe in, but was afraid to. I will forever be grateful for this book.
At this point, I was assured that it wasn't GOD who spoke with Neale, the writer.The key to life and understanding : we have to believe first, then comes the understanding.
But if we think that faith to God is stale...we'll never get the true understanding.
For example: this "god" said that, most of the writers of the New Testament didn't live in Jesus Christ's era, they lived after that.
He wrote many books of the New Testament.This "god" said that just to mock Paul, maybe.
Or would you believe in a sloppy god??Oh...there are so many wrong things in this book.
This is definitely a book for people with an open mind.
Many people, I imagine would be put off with the way Neale presented himself.
But then within the early section of the book, he wrote something that God communicate with us all the time.
So this is a book that could made us understand ourselves better, especially how we should see ourselves in our relationship with God. Once you pick it up, get your mind ready to be provoked.
Neale presented it in his own unique way.
I am glad I read this book.
I think I've found my new bible...Conversations with God is a book I will refer to time and time again for inspiration, a lift higher and a reality check.
Determine for yourself if any other emotions do exist.
Examine your motives, your emotives and your every action to assure it withstands the test of your truest self.
Once you experience being God you will no longer fear, no longer hurt and no longer need approval from anyone else but yourself.Bottom line: read this book.
I think the reason most people even pick up this book in a store is because they're searching for something.
I firmly believe that there is a reason each and every person who picks up this book ends up reading it.
Some might feel he's creating God to be something others don't believe He is.
Everyone is entitled to their opinion, and mine is that this book literally changed my life and the relationship that I have with God. Because of this book, I've opened my heart and my mind.
And it's really made me re-evaluate why I'm here and the role I play in God's life and vice versa.
Recipe for Conversations with God Alphabet Soup1.
Carefully rip out all pages of Conversations with God close to the binding.
Can be done five or six pages at a time.
Bring to a boil.
Turn off heat.4.
Plug in and turn on paper shredder.5.
In small batches, carefully shred Conversations with God according to manufacturer's directions.
Set aside in six small artistically arranged piles.6.
Ask butcher to reserve six pounds of tripe.8.
Retrieve reserved tripe from butcher9.
Over medium flame, alternate pound of tripe with one pile of cross shredded Conversations with God in the saccharine water.11.
Boil the hell out of it.12.
OK - I know.
You can laugh, but this book was my life-line during one of the most difficult periods I've ever been through.
The message that love of the self is the key to happiness was something I really need to hear at that point in my life, and it made me realize that we all manifest the events of our life, consciously or not.You don't have to believe in God to appreciate the message of this book: Choices based on love will bring good things in to your life; choices based on fear will not.
It's pretty simple, really.
I am personally not supportive of organized religion in any way.
In fact, I feel that organized religion breeds hatred & ignorance.
That last statement will likely upset a lot of people, including ones that I love respect.
I believe that Neale Donald Walsh's "Conversations with God" books can likely offend in the same sense, which is probably why I agree with so much of what is written about in these books.
I have always considered myself to be a very spiritual person, but have struggled with the fact that I cannot bring myself to be a part of any religious organization.
Whether or not you believe that this book is divinely inspired, it still presents an interesting viewpoint: that the world is what we make it, that we are responsible for everything from the success of our love life to the ravages of world hunger, on both a personal level and through mass consciousness. This book's greatest recommendation is that we each must take responsibility for our lives, and that by changing our basic judgments and perceptions, we can become our own God.
I am not a religious person whatsoever, but I was recommended this book by a close friend of mine & I relish the opportunity to change my mind.Upon finishing this, I've decided to leave my rating blank. Will discuss why in my RTC!
Where many, humanly, see it as completely controversial and totally blasphemous, the truth of this philosophy absolutely cemented my beliefs in the Highest thought of Love - the ultimate and absolute of all that we are; freedom- the Divine Creator (that which we are) has provided us with the beauty of choice; and experience - the ability to distinguish between 'good' and 'bad' and to decide who we are and who we want to be in the world of relative.Neale Donald Walsch is a great representation for the ordinary human being who feels as though he's done everything right in his life but can't understand why it's all falling apart - a horrible reality that most of us have subconsciously shaped and created for ourselves.
Or, I can choose to accept that I have no place to judge what is good or what is bad for other people - only that I need to accept and understand who I am at this moment.
Who I am at this moment is someone who adores this book because it gives me insight into the type of person I want to be right now.
As the book suggests, we are all on a journey to Who We Are and not all people will be able to accept the message that is present here because not everyone's soul is prepared for it.
Antes de iniciar la lectura no estaba muy segura de que fuera a gustarme. Al contrario, estaba convencida de que lo dejaría a la segunda página. Sin embargo, como por la boca muere el pez, ahora sólo puedo callar y meditar sobre todo lo leído.
Subtract four stars for trying to pawn off things like these as words of his God:"Your job on Earth, therefore, is not to learn."  [Strike one...you're out.
No discussion.]"Yet there are no victims in the world, and no villains."  [Um, okay]"In the largest sense, all the 'bad' things that happen are of your choosing.
The mistake is not in choosing them, but in calling them bad.
Oh, also subtract two stars because Walsch wrote two more books on the same subject that I can't muster the will to read.
You are about to have a conversation with God." So begins Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue (Book 1) which was a best-seller, a publishing phenomenon.
Truly, this book is less a conversation than a tiresome monologue by Neale Donald Walsch, who in the process of instructing the reader to liberate himself by recognizing his own Self as God, paints an image of a God as small as Walsch himself, and filled with Walsch's own parochialisms and scars.
Walsch's God is intolerant of any consumption of wine, but tolerant of mass murder as being merely "different".
He also shares Walsch's love of bad prose.
This book has changed my life and has made me see things in a whole new light.
I grew up with deep religious roots, but I have discovered that I enjoy having an open mind and discovering what others believe and just because it differs from the teachings I was raised with, doesn't mean it's not enlightening.
I take the words in this book with a grain of salt and an open mind and decide what and what not to believe.
It's not a book for everyone, but I enjoyed it because it spoke to me and the life I have currently decided to experience.
My honest answer is this: Neal is true enough to the voice of God within him to be saying things you likely will want to read when the time is right.
But when you do, listen to the voice of God within yourself, and let Neal be nothing more than your fellow messenger.
He starts it by "writing an angry letter to God" and says he heard God reply to his questions (hence the name).
Since book one became such a hit, it looks like Neale goes to great efforts to fulfill his role as the spiritual guru, tainting the authenticity that made book one so meaningful for me.
Regardless of who he is or what he's doing now, it's a great read for anyone who's ever thought about the concept of God or no-God.
I do know this happens, but I'm not sure Walsch recorded his actual conversations.
When God speaks to you it is as spirit to spirit and will overcome the lesser, materialistic and jaded voice of the world.
The day after the memorial, I sat for hours, four to five hours, just writing, writing, writing, feeling the power, majesty, depth, mystery, and eternal secrets therein.
I did not feel this power coming from Walsch's conversations.
No disrespect here to Mr Walsch at all but concentrating on the message allowed me to feel it the way it was meant to be felt.
Everything rings very true in my soul.
I do believe that we retain residual soul memory from our lives on the Other Side and from our past lives.
Before you make a decision whether to discount the messages in these books, ask yourself, "Does it ring true in my soul?" You just may be surprised what you hear back.
(Reading for the second time...with a highlighter!)These books have changed my life. And they're not what you'd think from the title. They give a swift kick in the ass to a great many accepted religious "norms." The religious questions I've had, wondering why certain pieces just didn't fit or make sense...they get answered! These books don't promote any religion, but rather encourage a new belief system.
สนทนากับพระเจา การพูดคุยทีไมธรรมดา เลม 1 (Conversations with God: an uncommon dialogue, book one) นีล โดนัลด วอลช เขียน รวิวาร โฉมเฉลา แปล สนพ. โอมายกอดเปนหนังสือทีดีจังเลยคะ อานงาย ทรงพลัง ลุมลึก เพราะเปน Q&A กเลยเลาดวยภาษาพูด ใชศัพทงายๆ ตลอดทังเลม คนถามกถามขยีในจุดทีอยากไดความกระจาง อานดูกรูเลยวาคุณนีล โดนัลดตองโดนคนโจมตีมากแนๆ ขอขอบคุณเขาจริงๆ ทีเขียนหนังสือดีๆ เลมนีออกมา และขอชืนชมคุณรวิวารคะ สำนวนดี แปลอานงาย เขาใจงาย และอานไหลลืนมากมีหลายประเดนมากทีเกิดมาไมเคยไดยินมากอน แนนอนวาบางเรือง

I read it, took on board the messages within and then life happened again, lessons learned were soon less important than what was going on externally around me.
People may think you have to be religious to read this and the other books in the series but that is not the case.
I had lost my belief in GOD the first time I read the book, for me it was a case of GOD saying to me through the book, you may have lost your faith but I am right here...see here I am.
Some books touch us some don't. This one speaks for me. I cried, laughed, twitched my eyebrow reading it, hence, I found myself reading another sequel and another and got the whole trilogy. It left me with a feeling of liberation and some things that I thought complicated before became sensibly simple for me. But again, that's for me. So for everyone who is not only searching for the essence about themselves, the Creator, life, world, and relationships with other people to name few, but also are willing to open their minds and heart about it, I recommend this one.
Some truly groundbreaking insight into religion and humanity. I would highly recommend this fascinating piece of literature.
This is such a bizarre book and I kept thinking I would stop reading it.
But then something would hook me to read on and though I can't say I believed the author (who believes that he is channeling G-d through his pen) I do believe in the message he writes.
Which is basically...be grateful for what you have now and what you will continue to receive in your life.
Don't live in a state of wanting.
I found his message profound.
This was written before "The Secret" and "The Last Lecture" which I have not read.
( see my review of Women Food and God - keep in mind that it was good ol' Lisa that insisted I read it because she totally LOVED the darn thing ) Let me clarify - we enjoy the same genres , but our opinions of individual books usually totally differ .
It was my buddy Lisa that recommended CWG to me ....not only did she suggest reading it , she drove her copy 20 minutes across town, on a saturday evening , in a terrible snow storm for me to borrow !
I will say this much ( despite my hating Lisa's books )....
Mình không phải Christian, cũng không tranh cãi về thuyết này thuyết nọ cho mệt người, còn vị Chúa mà Walsch đã nói chuyện, mình thấy thích ông God này, một ông God không hề mang màu sắc huyền bí, dính dáng tới quyền lực, mà lại rất thân thiện, kiểu như một người Thầy, người Cha, người Anh Em tốt vậy.Ông God mà Walsch nói chuyện có thể là thầy của bất cứ một người nào trên Trái đất, nếu người đó bỏ thành kiến và chịu lắng nghe, vì Ông God này rõ ràng chả thể hiện mình là một đại diện cho bất cứ hệ thống nghi lễ tôn giáo, hình như God của Walsh chỉ cố truyền đạt bằng những khái niệm ngôn từ chung nhất, chứ không qua một hình thức, hay bất cứ concept nào thuộc về một hệ thống tôn giáo.
Não estava à espera de um livro que me agarrasse e que me fizesse pensar, questionar, aceitar ideias, perspectivas e argumentos.A palavra "Deus" fez-me alguma confusão no início da leitura, mas rapidamente percebi onde o Neale quis chegar com este diálogo.A palavra "Deus" não passa de uma nomenclatura que TODOS NÓS entendemos, quer acreditemos ou não na sua existência concreta.
Há quem acredite, e há quem não acredite - mas para ambos a referência é: o perfeito criador, omnipotente, coiso e tal tal e coiso, a lengalenga que as religiões pregam - não é o que se passa neste livro.Se o Neale conversou MESMO com Deus?
As a young religious skeptic in conservative small town Texas, I was awestruck by it.
I believed it for a long time, it just made so much more sense than any other book on religion I'd ever read or attempted to read *coughbible*.Now I'm almost 21 and even though I doubt that Neale Donald Walsch talks to god (since I'm now an atheist) I will always remember this book as the one that opened my mind to new possibilities and gave me the confidence to seek a different path.
I grew up in conservative small towns and had never read or heard of anything like what is discussed in this book.
It was a gateway to a new way of thinking for me.
