https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72536.The_Sociopath_Next_Door
In the hands of its intended audience, it is pure mind poison.So here’s what I did not like about the book: (1) It invites readers with no professional training to set out on a scavenger hunt to unearth a very subtle psychiatric condition amongst their friends and acquaintances and to label, publicly “out,” and ostracize them as “sociopaths.” This book sells itself partly as a kind of witch-hunt manual, helping the reader hunt down the evil sociopaths next door (invariably people who have wronged you or whom you don’t like) and expose them and expurgate them from your life and human society.(2) It invites readers to see themselves as victims of an invisible class of evil people and to put anyone who cheats, or hurts, or manipulates them into this class of secret evil victimizers.

The apartments are set in quite a lot of land and require a gardener, the neighbour wanted to arrange that and also the letting and collecting of rents as the landlady lives on another island.
She killed my cat.The mistakes she made were that the builder, who was my next door neighbour at the time, is a very decent person and he was building it up for free for the landlady because her husband had died and she needed security and the families were very close.
In fact, a constant appeal to pity and sympathy is put forward as one of the most telling signs that one is dealing with a sociopath.This is all complicated by the fact that sociopaths are often quite charming (manipulation, remember?) Unlike people with attachment disorder who are incapable of charm.
The sociopath doesn't feel bad about the victims, unlike a narcissist who feels bad if other people don't like the narcissist as much as the narcissist does.Since starting to read the book, I've been looking at all of my friends and family (and myself) as if with new eyes.
If given the opportunity to read a text about sociopathy and its prevalence, don't bother reading Stout's work. Instead, read "Without Conscience" by the psychologist Hare. Hare's work on sociopathy is notable in the field, and after reading it, you will be shocked to notice that entire sections of "The Sociopath Next Door" appear to be lifted from "Without Conscience," slightly reworded, and placed into the text. "The Sociopath Next Door" is still an interesting book, but it is at best a 'see spot run' version of Hare's only slightly longer book.
According to Martha Stout, just about everyone knows a few sociopaths.......DUH.
I know two people for sure that I used to work with....they were chilling.
But if you keep your eye's open, hopefully you can spot them and avoid them.
If you can't avoid them, then just don't get caught up in their games....because us folks with a conscience are just game pieces to them.
Sure does to me.....you betcha don't ya and also too.Sociopaths suck.
So good, thanks Karma.There were some good stories in this book and the descriptions of the sociopath were well done.
Such a set-up keeps interest high while making the subject very accessible to the lay reader; this is not a tedious psychiatric work that feels like homework to read.
Stout’s book probably is ideal to read, in addition to (and preferably after), Dr. Robert Hare’s more academic Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us. Hare, being the foremost expert in the field of psychopathy, approaches the subject even more thoroughly, but Stout’s book is direct and gripping from page one.
Final verdict: A must-read-now that will change the way readers view the world around them.
You know that neighbor of yours who ignores you when you say hello to him in the hall? Well, he might not be just a garden-variety jerk -- he may be A SOCIOPATH!! In fact, four percent of the United States' population is composed of sociopaths. You know what this means, don't you? TROUBLE!!That might as well be the flap copy of Martha Stout's book, which doesn't seek to enlighten so much as to inflame. Stout throws out a lot of scary-sounding statistics cobbled together with some vaguely philoso
She then ends the list with "Living well is the best revenge." Uh, what?To make matters worse, a glance at the end notes reveals that Stout bases her conclusions on statistics gathered from old studies -- the book was published in 2005 and a lot of the source materials are dated 1997 and earlier -- which makes you wonder about the basis of her conclusions.
The reader is left wondering why, if this problem is so widespread, Stout couldn't have presented her audience with some real people.The most interesting and enlightening parts of the book are Stout's recounting of other studies -- for example, the famous Milgram experiment.
A weird byproduct of listening to this book (a Daily Deal, well worth it) was a conscious undercurrent of pitting myself against the composite sociopaths depicted.
I kept thinking, I hope it's not me.
Then that led to, Only a sociopath would see himself in a book about sociopaths.
So ultimately I decided that I'm a narcissist with sociopathic tendencies.
This is exactly why I don't read side-effects of medications, or delve too deep into Zen Buddhism--koans?
Get the hell outta here, those break my fragile mind, cause cosmic vertigo--or follow any campaign trails.
I bought a book about narcissism.
I have a feeling I have crossed paths with more than one sociopathic person in my life, and you probably have too.
If you're into a lot of references, heavily researched hypotheses and the occasional case study, then this book is for you.
I much preferred the case study chapters and they were the only thing that kept me going throughout this book.
I will probably read more from this lady, she certainly knows what she's talking about.
If there is any way to detect early warning signs that a young child might have sociopathic tendencies and correct it before it's too late, psychology does not yet seem to have figured it out.Stout claims (without a lot of evidence, I thought) that sociopathy is more common in Western society.
I find this questionable; not that sociopaths can rise high in the political or business world (obviously they can) but that any other society is better at filtering out people without a conscience.
Wow--4% of those around us are...sociopaths!
Don't read this book if you have a tendency to be paranoid.
I'm now looking around me now wondering, "Is SHE a sociopath?
Is HE?"A sociopath is someone without conscience (in short, they cannot love or attach value to other living things).
One WITH conscience cannot fathom what this might even be like, and "sociopath" seems like such an extreme label, so the non-sociopaths rarely identify sociopaths as sociopaths ("we" make excuses for their questionable behavior, because how on earth could someone actually be doing what this looks like they're doing?).
I'm paranoid!
(7) It is not correct to believe everyone has conscience, some people (the author claims there make up 4% of the population) simply don't have one, and these people think and function in a way which is fundamentally different from us.(8) In the mind of the sociopaths, everyone who obeys morality, laws and orders are fools.
It was comprised mostly of case studies and Dr. Stout's 25 years of experiences dealing with clients who have been affected and harmed by sociopaths in their lives.
I've always believed that there is a little good in everyone.
At some point in everyone's life they did at least one good deed.
This book discussed how 1 in 25 people is a sociopath.
One, I'm lucky and very grateful to have a conscious, to be able to love, to enjoy just listening to my child laugh or hearing my husband snore (What?
In a reprehensible mix of lowest common denominator psychology, fear-mongering, and insultingly juvenile "real life" examples, Martha Stout explores the claim that one in every 25 people is a sociopath in The Sociopath Next Door.
The most apparent to anyone who can read a narrative that isn't scrawled in crayon is that her real life examples of sociopaths, knowingly composited from different people, read not like people but rather cardboard cutouts over which she has draped symptoms of sociopathy.
The author asks “Why have a conscience?” She argues that being truly human entails having one, and warns the majority of us about the four percent of people who are sociopaths.
Or maybe you are a consultant of some kind, a broker or a gallery owner or a human services director…Whatever your job, you manipulate and bully the people who are under your thumb, as often and as outrageously as you can without getting fired or held accountable.
And this is power, especially when the people you manipulate are superior to you in some way.
I wish that every mood, developmental, personality and every other kind of disorder catalogued by those wonderful folks over at the DSM had a book written about it the way sociopathy does.
I'd like to read like a billion page DSM where every single disorder had a nice book like this under its heading.
First on my wishlist would be borderline personality disorder.
Then Aspberger's.In fact this book, writing-quality-wise, is sort of on the level of a stretched-out Newsweek article, maybe.
Yeah, a cross between a stretched out Newsweek article and a stretched-out DSM article.
It made me want, overall, to be reading easier books.
Uh I'm quitting this book. A lot of it is just very "no duh." Maybe I'M a sociopath but I don't give a shit about this book anymore
The Sociopath Next Doorby Martha StoutA few months ago I was given the opportunity to read “The Sociopath Next Door” and before doing so I chose to look it up on Goodreads, to see what my fellow readers thought of it.
I can completely understand why people who saw the cover, and read the blurb on this book would be dissatisfied with it.
“The Sociopath Next Door” is a book you should read if you wish to learn more about sociopathy, to understand the human conscience, to learn how to recognize and protect yourself from the influence of a sociopath, or if you simply wish to have a new appreciation for the goodness in humanity and the beauty that is our ability to love each other.
he pulled one after another of the power games Stout details in her book...
Reviewers who pan this book have clearly never been taken in by a sociopath (or they haven't realized it), or they would realize how chillingly cunning and methodical the remorseless are in their games.
Ultimately the book is hopeful, giving us two things: the tools to recognize the sociopaths among us (beware crocodile tears that seem to be turned on and off at will, and the overplaying of the "pity" card), and the comfort that the numbers and actions of those who do have a conscience by far outweigh the numbers of the conscienceless.
সামারি টাইপ, পুরোটাই সপয়লার। এই বই পড়ার নযুনতম আগরহ থাকলে এটা পড়বেন না।“What is important to you in your life? What do you want more than anything else?” I thought he might say “getting money,” or “staying out of jail,” which were the activities to which he devoted most of his time. Instead, without a moment's hesitation, he replied, “Oh, that's easy. What I like better than anything else is when people feel sorry for me. The thing I really want more than anything else out of life is people's pi
চারদিকে প্রতিবাদের ঝড় উঠলেও কিন্তু শেষমেশ রায়ের পরিবর্তন ঘটেনি।হানা, যে কিনা মেডিকেল স্টুডেন্ট, এসমস্ত ঘটনায় খুবই ডিপ্রেসড। লেখকের কাছে এসেছে রোগী হিসেবে, কিন্তু বলেছে, দেখ, আমি কিন্তু চিকিৎসা নিতে আসিনি, আমি শুধু কথা বলতে চাই। প্রতি সপ্তাহে কথা বলতে বলতেই বেরিয়ে আসলো, তার বাবাকে সে এতদিন যেভাবে চিনে এসেছে আসলে সে যে তা নয় সেটাই সে বুঝতে পারেনি। ছোট্টকালে একবার পরীক্ষায় খারাপ করেছিল বলে কয়েকদিন কথাই বলেনি। যদিও বলেছে, দেখ তুমি যদিও ছেলে না কিন্তু সব স্বাধীনতাই ভোগ করবে, আমি অন্যদের মত এত রক্ষণশীল না, কিন্তু দেখা যায় নিজের সিদ্ধান্তই সে তার উপর চাপিয়ে দিয়েছে, যেমন তার ডাক্তার হওয়া। তার মা একবার নিউমোনিয়ায় আক্রান্ত হয়ে হস্পিটালাইজড হলেও একবারের জন্যও তাকে দেখতে যায়নি, বরং আসার পর বলেছে, তুমি আর কখনোই তোমার আগের রূপ ফিরে পাবে না। নিজেকে খুবই ছোট মনে হচ্ছিল যখন সে বলছিল, আমার বাবা একবার তার ক্লাসের এক মেয়েকে বলেছে, নিশ্চয় আজও ব্রা পরোনি, একা পেয়ে এক ছাত্রীকে জড়িয়ে ধরা, তার ক্লাসের আরেক মেয়েকে কু … এই যে বাবার সম্বন্ধে এসব বলছে তার পরও কিন্তু সে বলছে নিশ্চয় তুমি আমাকে খারাপ ভাবছো?হানার মায়ের কাছে বিচিত্র সব ফোন কল/মেসেজ আসতো, যেগুলোতে তার বাবাকে ড্রাগ ডিলার হিসেবে অভিযুক্ত করা হতো। সত্যিই কি তাই?
I found this book to be fascinating. I originally picked this book up as part of my research for a novel, but I didn't expect to be so entertained by it. It's a sad truth that statistically one in 25 people you will meet in life is a sociopath (per the book), and I have found that to be somewhat accurate as I've met two truly conscienceless people in my life. While I wouldn't say this is the only book on the subject, it definitely made for an engaging read.
Steve is in fact extremely competitive even over the dumbest things, scheming, and manipulative.
All along I was wondering what is it that made Steve act in the way that he did.
“The Sociopath Next Door” is in many ways the best book on sociopaths/psychopaths that I’ve read.
2.	Stout provides a very easy and counterintuitive way of identifying sociopaths.
Stout provides an excellent and very effective thirteen-point list of ways in which we can deal with sociopaths.
I have been practicing pretty much all of the recommendations on my own to begin with, and I can assure you that they are very, very effective.So if this is such a wonderful and useful book, why did I give it only four stars?

On the level of a Lifetime movie.
Well, this book is certainly readable; it manages to avoid the dry, academia-laden style that many of these Pop-Psychology books brings to to the table.Beyond that, I've not much to say about it; despite the lurid title ("Ruthless vs the Rest of us"?
REALLY?), it's not particuarly "Alarmist", per se, but it does encourage readers (some of whom would presumably be lay-people like me) to judge their immediate circles, and ascribe qualities or issues to these people that are not necessarily there.
I had read this years ago but just recently thought about it because it was referenced in the book I'm currently reading. I thought then, as I think now, that it could very well be true. Give me a good schizophrenic any day over a sociopath or a psychopath, please. They have much better dreams, too.Seriously though, it does come to my mind that if there are that many people without the spark that gives them empathy, it does explain the bankers.
Stout departs from the DSM-IV and argues that the fundamental character traits of the sociopath are the inability to feel love, lack of conscience, boredom, manipulation of sympathy for personal gain ("the pity play"), and treating others like objects rather than human beings.
Stout argues that sociopathy is genetically inherited, untreatable, unredeemable, and that the the only defense against sociopaths is to avoid them like the plague.
Stout draws a very black and white line between sociopaths and "the rest of us," and unapologetically demonizes and dehumanizes sociopaths -- yet she also discusses the fact that when ordinary people hurt others, the two most common reasons for the cruel behavior is following the lead of a trusted authority, and dehumanizing the out-group that is under attack.
"The Sociopath Next Door" delivers both good and bad news.
The good news is, not all sociopaths are violent murderers or serial killers.
The bad news is, you probably know a sociopath.
Sociopaths have no ability to feel pity, empathy, guilt, or love.
Sociopaths are completely devoid of conscience.How to spot them?
Sociopaths know that others do have consciences, and feel guilt.
It's chilling to think that people like this actually exist.
As a cautionary tale, The Sociopath Next Door should be required reading.
However, once you've read it, you'll never feel quite as secure again.
A valuable piece of information to possess in today's world.
These people operate on a level of cunning and deception that normal people would not even consider.
It's important to know that there are among us those who have no soul and do not make decisions based on anyone's feelings but their own.
If you don't think that way, you don't suspect them.
You say you didn't see it coming, but after reading this book, you see where they gave you all these clues which you excused.
Think it won't happen to you again?
Read the book!
