https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1084489.The_Song_At_The_Scaffold
That initiated the horror.In this novel, Gertrud Von Le Fort speaks exclusively of the execution of the Carmelite nuns of Compiegne during the French Revolution.
Milosz in one of his poems speaks of French Revolution as an act of "killing in the name of universal, beautiful ideas."This novel is based on a true event - the execution of the Carmelite nuns of Compiegne who faced the Guillotine singing SALVE REGINA and VIENI CREATOR.
In a simple sentence it is a story of simple, weak, mortal, fearful human being made strong by God.In analyzing the French Revolution she is in alliance with C.
Of course, Caiaphas put this into words, "is it not right that one man should die for the many?" His words were cynical, but came true in a different way than he said them.Therese of Lisieux, a Carmelite, spoke of becoming a "victim of love" "I know well that it is not my great desires that please God in my little soul, what He likes to see is the way I love my littleness and my poverty; it is my blind hope in His mercy, this is my only treasure....
Vivian Dudro, writer and editor at Igantius Press, engages in a wonderful conversation about the work of German author Gertrude von le Forte who was a writer of novels, poems, and essays.
A convert to Catholicism in 1926, most of von le Forte work came after her conversion.
The opera was based on a libretto with this same title written by Georges Bernanos.Click here to listen to my discussion with Vivian Dudro of Ignatius Press about this book As Vivian points out in our discussion, von le Forte’s work is as relevant today as it was in the last century.
Gertrud von le Fort es un gran descubrimiento de las letras femeninas alemanas del pasado siglo.Wilhelm Grenzmann la a calificado así: "Esta pequeña novela es una de las más artísticamente perfectas de la literatura alemana".El elemento biográfico está también presente en esta obra.
En 1930 -según una de las versiones-, Le Fort estuvo alojada en un convento donde le prestaron un libro para que se distrajera.
Este contenía la historia de las carmelitas de Compiègne, condenadas a la guillotina en Grève en 1794, durante la Revolución Francesa.
Esta historia dará lugar también a la obra de teatro de Georges Bernanos Diálogo de carmelitas (1952).
A dense novella crammed with ironies because told by an unreliable narrator who relates a ture story from history but the focus of that true story is the fictional representation of an unstable neurotic.
The author criticizes both extremes of the French Revolution, the blindness of the aristocrats and the blood-frenzy of the rabble.
At the end the author invokes the reader's opinion to meditate on her ironies--whio is the true saint of the novella?
Days later the chemist Lavoisier, one of history's greatest scientists, was pointlessly executed.The theme of teh novella is the blindness of persecution.
Story of the horrors of the 'enlightenment" and age of 'reason'. Began with the guillotine and continues today in abortion clinics worldwide. Nice read with some interesting and all-to-human characters.
A concise retelling of the historical martyrdom of Carmelite nuns during the Reign of Terror, this focuses on the fearful Blanche de la Force, and the two sisters who try to guide her spiritual path. It is a lovely and sometimes moving glimpse into the encounter between the spiritual and violent political upheaval, but the author takes too much license and adds too much melodrama to an already wrought situation. This may the one case where the opera (the superb Dialogues of the Carmelites) is more detailed, more nuanced, and more dramatic.
The story of 16 Carmelite nuns guillotined during the Reign of Terror of the French Revolution. Olga Marx's 1933 translation does not hold up well to the passage of time making the book less accessible to the modern reader. A fine, but one-sided, portrayal of the nuns' story, their motivation, and faith. Interesting use of a fictional character, the nun Blanche, to contrast the fear an average person would feel in this situation with the conviction and courage of these historical martyrs.
The Song at the Scaffold takes place during the Reign of Terror in 18th Century France. It is based on a true story of a convent of Carmelite nuns who accept martyrdom for God’s glory. The character of Blanche had a very intense relationship with fear and appears to suffer from some form of mental illness. Her fate takes an interesting path.The book explores human nature and is very well written.Anyone with an interest in French history will enjoy this novel.
Attracted by the idea of a woman crippled by fear who learns to face the world with God. Stayed a bit too long in the emotional and not enough background. It is an interesting topic to mull over though..making a stand and eventually sacrifice for God even when offered an out as the character is in this one. I found the character hardly developed enough and probably would have made an excellent novel with about 200 more pages!
I love the story behind this book, but the book itself fell a little flat. Perhaps because it is told from a point-of-view that is pretty detached from everything that is going on and also because the characters do not hold much personality. Still, I am even more intrigued in the Carmelite nuns who were the last victims of the French Revolution.
Overall, a very good, short book about the French Revolution. The author is very thoughtful and reflective - stimulating the reader to start thinking quite deeply. It shows how fear can be the greatest sort of courage. I know - it's a paradox. Yet, you will understand and most likely agree after this read.
I find the subject matter interesting, and the ironies of certain characters intriguing. However, I felt as though it only spoke of the injustices towards those it was about as if they were the only to suffer in that time. It was a light read and an interesting change of perspective. And yet, not something I'd passionately recommend.
I had a hard time with this book. I didn't really like the way it was written as a narative. The story itself of the nuns who were martryed during the French Revolution was a story worth hearing. I did not realize that there was so much religious persecution during the French Revolution.
An interesting (and very brief) fictional account of a group of Carmelite nuns martyred during the French Revolution. Raises the curious concept of "holy fear" in light of Christ's agony in the Garden of Gesthemane.
Meh. I found the writing to be overly wordy. It was hard to really get into the story. Sometimes the language was just way too flowery for my taste so I tended to skim some paragraphs.
What a beautiful little book with a truly remarkable final two chapters. I read this in preparation for Poulenc's Dialogues of the Carmelites and am very glad I did.
Pretty good the first time I read it, fantastic the second time!
En medio del torbellino de la Revolución Francesa, las carmelitas de Compiegne son llevadas al patíbulo.
Una a una alternando con las estrofas del Veni Creator, caen sus cabezas bajo la guillotina, y cuando parece que el canto se va a extinguir inconcluso, irrumpe de la muchedumbre la figura débil de Blanca de la Force, joven carmelita que, afirmada en extraño poder, avanza voluntariamente hacia el patíbulo.
Mientras tanto, Sor María de la Encarnación, la religiosa que precisamente más deseó el martirio, se ve privada de él y sobrevive a la tragedia.Gertrud von Le fort revive en esta novela la agonía de las carmelitas de Compiegne, en plena Revolución con una admirable fidelidad histórica y un sugestivo encanto extraordinario.
Head back in time to the french revolution in an intriguing short novel that combines the inisde look at nuns, the mob in Paris at the time and more.
The Song at the Scaffold is a novella written in 1931 fictionalizing the martyrdom of Carmelite nuns during the Reign of Terror.
The narrator tells the haunting story, adding that the song got quieter and quieter, until there was only one person left singing, a former initiate who had been brought to witness the executions.
While the story based on real events, the initiate is a fictional character added to embody the fear and uncertainty felt by so many during the revolution.I enjoyed this book, but it wasn't really what I expected.
It's a story of incredible courage during what is now known as "The Reign of Terror." Taking place in France in the 1790s, there was tremendous hostility against both the ruling class, i.e. kings and nobles, and the Catholic Church.Although few could believe that conditions were such that Christians would be martyred in France, some saw it coming and prepared themselves for it, mentally and spiritually.Sixteen Carmelite nuns and religious women were executed for their unwavering faith by the guillotine.
While we cannot imagine a "reign of terror" in our time, we must keep in mind that neither did people see it coming at that time.
Gertrud von Le Fort does not disappoint.
The otherwise spare details about the Carmelite saints are turned into a fast-moving but thoughtful novel, which uses the details on secondary characters and the opinionated voice of the omniscient narrator to fill in the story.
Good book for people short on time.
I would recommend being familiar with the history before reading this book for balance though, as the narrator voice sometimes gets annoying.
The thesis of the book, encapsulated in Blanche's religious name is good food for meditation.
You never knew the redeeming value of fear and reticence to martyrdom until Le Fort.
In some respects, that's a good thing; there is a lot to chew on in the characterization of both Sr. Marie l'Incarnation and Blanche, and a book I have to grapple with is one I'll keep thinking about long after I'm done.
But on the other hand, I think the last sections of the book were also just confusing.
I really had no idea what was going on with Blanche in the last quarter of the book, and I'm still not sure I understand the motivation for her big, turning point decision.
It's a book I would like to revisit, though.
Interesting and compelling novella reflecting on the martyrdom of the Carmelite nuns during the French Revolution. The author presents characters for both sides of emotions for those facing possible martyrdom and explores those motivations with beautiful meditation. I feel like my current lack of knowledge of this period of history held back a more fuller understanding of the background of this story, but I hope to remedy that problem soon.
A fictionalized account of the true story of Carmelite nuns martyred during the final days of the French revolution, this short novella, written as a letter, is the basis for Poulenc's opera, Dialogue of the Carmelites. It is well worth the read.
This short novel was haunting and harrowing. Beautifully written and a quick read - it placed the reader in the midst of the terror and chaos of the French Revolution. Deeply moving and intense as many of Gertrud von le Fort's works. It was a very heavy read but I'm glad to have read it.
As I read the first chapter, I wasn't swept up in the story, and doubted that I would. However, everything changed after that and I did find myself swept away in the story of the Carmelite Sisters who were executed during the Reign of Terror.
Holy petunias what a story.
3. 5 stars
