https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93723.Boy_Meets_Girl
However, I had a near death experience a year ago, and it taught me one thing: Don’t waste your time on astupid shit.
Don’t waste my time on stupid shit!
I spend most of my time in stupid things: being annoyed to my brother, registering to new websites knowing I will not use it in the long run, contemplating about my life in the past (the happy and sad moments) and dreaming about my future.
I want to live my life in a day.
I want to live it here and now.
Lesson learned and I want to live it.

In a continuing "series*" of modern epistolary romances, we have added IM conversations to the mix, and journals kept mostly on scrap paper.
We didn't need any "oh, I overheard you talking and..." emails this time to forward the plot :o) The journaling also gave a good balance of exposition that you wouldn't necessarily email even to your best friend and "I'm writing this while waiting, on the only scrap of paper I could find" was well done.* with subsequent employees of the same newspaper staff falling in love and telling their also-employed-by-the-newspaper, engaged best friend all about it.
As a fan of Meg Cabot, I know that her books can be funny at times, but I was surprised at the number of times I actually laughed out loud while reading this book.Although this is definitely a stand-alone book, I did appreciate the return of several characters from Boy Next Door in minor roles as well as the chance to see just how vile Amy Johnson (unlike most of the HR professionals I know) really is.I also appreciated the diary entries (some of which were very creatively written between the lines of other handy documents), IM & voicemail transcripts, letters, & PNG notices in addition to the main narrative of email messages between characters.
Still lots of fun.
It could be used as an example in lessons ;-) I copy it at the end of the review.]It was funny and entertaining like the whole series but I have found it a little less witty than the two previous books.
But still, it deserves four stars.Like with all books of the series, The most important thing to realise before starting this is that it's not a novel.
Kate and Mitch were so much not perfect heroes for a simple chick-lit romance that one asks a question: Perhaps they are just like us (a bit spoiled, a bit selfish, a bit lazy, sometimes not professional at work, sometimes short-sighted - sounds familiar?
This book left me in a really good mood.
It is the first book I have read that is written entirely in the form of emails, journal entries, receipts, instant messaging, menus, memos, dispositions and receipts and I was suprised at how well it worked.
This book had a huge cast of characters.
Sometimes when there are so many it can get a bit confusing but because of the way it was set out it worked well and didn't take me long to sort out who was who.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to people who are looking for a quick, light read that will cheer up your mood.
As one actually looks at previous works, it's easy to find a pattern with both plot and characters and that's not something a writer would want.
She shouldn't be taken as a nice girl from a small town who hasn't been able to leave her idiot of a boyfriend even though she's practically his slave.About Mitchell, the main guy, I didn't even want to go there.
It's not a very good thing when all you want to do is ignore the main characters and focus on the others, because they're a lot more interesting.
Boy Meets Girl is the first book I've read by Meg Cabot, and I enjoyed it quite a bit.
Typically, books written in the form of letters between characters do not appeal to me, but this book was cleverly designed and I couldn't help but fall into the storyline and be captivated from the get go.
The storyline was easy to understand, the characters were identifiable, the main characters were extremely likeable, and it didn't lack the emotional or humorous element you would think wouldn't translate well in that style of writing.
Boy Meets Girl had all the elements of a story well told that kept me laughing and rooting on the main characters the whole way through.
As the first book in the series, this novel is written as a modern epistolary.
With texts and emails exchanges, notes, letters, and reports.I loved the second book in the boys series.
It is just as witty, fun, and smart as the first one.
The epistolary interactions were so clever and fun to read.The only missing part, compared to the first book at least, was maybe a bit of a mystery to solve.
I also did not care for the recipes.Mrs. Lopez shenanigans about pie distribution were hilarious.Overall, Boy Meets Girl was an extremely enjoyable romantic comedy, i would recommend it to take your mind off things for a short little while.
Boy Meets Girl - Meg Cabot 16 Apr 20041 May 2016These books do not particularly embed themselves deep into my psyche; I have, in fact, forgotten even the broad plotline. But reading them delights me. The are funny, they are charming, they beguile an hour or two which might otherwise be fraught with angst or sadness. Library copy
zboznuju meg cabotovou. kdybych mela byt objektivni, jsou to spis 4*, ale kdyz ja se tak bavila, ze proste nemam chut byt objektivni ;-)
I feel like this book is the very definition of Your Fave Is ProblematicI really had fun reading this but omg so much trans/homophobia and antisemitism. Granted most of it stemmed from the "villains" but it is definitely hard to overlook in a book that is supposed to be light and fun. It was great to see some of the supporting cast from The Boy Next Door make an appearance in a different way. I liked Kate and Mitch and all the goofy people they worked and interacted with. But the blatant isms took a lot of the fun out.
Will always give this book five stars because it is lighthearted and a super quick read.
Stuart and Amy just seemed to care about themselves . I dislike them and their mom and Kate mom's are weird as well . I'm glad that Mitch doesn't judge his sister "Sean"
I enjoyed this one much more than the first book in the series.
However, this is a companion novel, so we saw many of the same characters.
Which in my opinion was a GREAT decision!!
We saw much more of Stacy and she has become my favorite character, with Dolly close behind.
I loved Kate and Jen, they were the epitome of best friends.
Mitch and Stacy's conversations were HILARIOUS.
(Need I say it?
Siblings!!) I cruised through this one and it was exactly what I needed to detract from all my school/moving/sister's wedding stress!
*4.5* starsBoy Meets Girl is yet another amazing book written by Meg Cabot. I really haven't read a book that is written in the form of e-mails,IMs, Voice Messages and Notices before except for Love Letters to the Dead which I haven't still finished yet. So, I think this my first ever finished book of that type. It really grabbed my attention from the first page itself. I loved this book so much. Really enjoyed it!!! Way to go Meg Cabot!
I was so confused in the beginning, I thought that Meg Cabot would continue the story of the first book so I thought I was reading the wrong book. I really enjoyed reading this book but only the e-mail format would have been better.
Sooooooo cute! I love books like these!
Amé de principio a fin, Meg Cabot jamás decepciona a la hora de escribir novelas ágiles, divertidas y con muchísimos enredos.
Better than the first one as it wasn’t all emails - this book included emails, instant messaging (old school 😄), journal entries, etc. It broke up the monotony a bit more!
By that, I mean EXes, soon-to-be-boyfriends, fiancees, and girl bestfriends combined with life and conflict rolled into a single book of pure and non-stop gossip.
The story, from beginning to end, was actually told through - get this - through a series of email messages, voice mails, journal pages, job memos, letters, receipts, and other random written statements exchanged along the course by the different characters.
Characters talk via email, text messages, chat boxes, and whatnot, but you actually catch the story.
I have reached the succeeding pages and couldn't put the freaking book down.
The book is about a girl Kate and she works for this newspaper place, whatever they are called.
Kate has been with her boyfriend Dale for ten years, then he starts his own band and he breaks up with Kate.
Well, Kate breaks up with him.
In the midst of all of this Stuart Hertzog is newly engaged to Amy Jenkins.
While this is going on her boyfriend Dale is out touring, and Jen, her friend, is allowing Kate to live with her and Craig (her husband).
In the mist of all of this Stuart and Kate’s boss Amy are engaged to get married.
You might know the name Meg Cabot from the Princess Diaries series but this book is nothing like Princess Diaries.
It centers around Kate who is working as an HR rrep for a New York Newspaper called The Journal.
She has a horrible boss and works with her best friend Jen. Her boss Amy asks her to fire the most popular person at the Newspaper Ida (the desserts cart lady).
Ida refuses to serves desserts to people she thinks doesnot deserve them (mainly Amy's boyfriend Stuart who is also cheif legal counsel to the paper).
I highly reccommend this book.
i can totally imagine me being like Kate in a few years stressing over jobs and what am i doing with my life etc and being hella awkward around cute guys.
if you like chick lit or cute books about finding love and crazy friends and mad family members then try this book.
also if you love Meg Cabot then yeah you should totes read it.
totes gonna read the next book Every Guy's Got One and i think she said she's writing another one!
what a wonderful guilty pleasure. I absolutely LOVED this fun little read. the instant chat conversations, letters, emails~ they were just a wonderful and interesting way to read a book. And I loved the main characters. I love that she was sassy and loved and caring. I loved the dialogue between mitch and his 2 sisters and Kate and her Best Friend. All so funny.
Ha. I had forgotten how awesome and entertaining Cabot's books are.Boy Meets Girl was hilarious. it had me laughing my ass off and it's been a while since I've read a funny book.the story was okay But the writing style got me because it was so easy to read. I read it in one day itself, it was that easy and fast paced.witty characters with a sense of humour made this book a thrill to read.
Another fun, fast, easy read! I wish it had been more of a sequel to The Boy Next Door, but at least the characters were worked into this book a little. The writing was interesting because of the different mediums: email, IM, memo, etc. A little cheesy at times, but still a cute book. 3.5 stars.
The romance was less bantery and more on the instalove side of things but this is still a Meg Cabot book so it was a fun and quick read, great for when you're in bed with a cold like I'm right now.
Good bookThis book is good and entertaining. It has a happy ending and I was able to read it in one sitting.
