https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2807199-american-wife
The first three sections were so engaging that I never wanted to put the book down.
Alice Blackwell is the kind of character you wish were real.
The Alice Blackwell in these sections is a woman that is wonderfully complex and interesting.
The real magic is that all the hype about the character being modeled after Laura Bush completely disappeared.
However, that complexity gets lost in the last section.
At that point, I feel the book lost some of its magic for me.
I wish the story and its characters had maintained the same complexities it did in its earlier sections.
For a book to be written about an actual First Lady, a human being entitled to the same dignity we all deserve and a woman who most of America holds in high regard (even the author herself admits that she's fascinated by her), and to speculate about private things like her sexuality, her commitment to her husband, an abortion and drug use, and dress it up as fiction to avoid being charged with slander and libel seems cowardly.The author claims her intention was not to expose Laura Bush but to write what life might be like if you happened to marry a guy who went on to become President of the United States.
Boy did my opinions about this book change as I went along.
As it went along, it got into some deeper issues and I found myself thinking about a lot of the issues that Sittenfeld raised.
It’s not giving away any secrets to say that Sittenfeld’s inspiration for Alice and Charlie were Laura and George W.
But the problem with that is that I could only picture their faces, despite her numerous comments about how good looking Charlie was.
I did not want to picture Laura Bush having an orgasm.
Yet as time went on, and Charlie rose up the political ladder, I appreciated more what she was dealing with.
And truly, when I had a chance to read the ARE, I couldn't say no, since I have heard only good things about Curtis's stuff.There must be something wrong with me, because I did not enjoy this book, and the more I think about it, the less I like it.
Even Charlie Blackwell was a likable enough meat-eater, despite his privledged background and carefree arrogance, because we got to know him through Alice's eyes., who loved him despite herself.I think I began to feel jipped when I realized there wasn't going to be an elaborate wedding scene in the novel, that Alice was never going to wear the wedding gown (or anything nearly like it) pictured on the book jacket.
When our American wife makes it to the White House, the story falls flat on its face.Anyway, this is the engrossing (and somewhat trashy) tale of Alice Lindgren Blackwell, future first lady.
Her father has a job at the bank, her mother is the perfect housewife, and her grandmother is an eccentric intellectual.
It's fun to keep that in mind while reading, particularly when she meets her future husband, Charlie Blackwell.Alice is very likable, and you cannot help but to become involved in her story.
The plot is quite engaging and only becomes stale when she actually moves into the White House.
This book is a fabulous read -- and as far as I can gather, inspired by a sentiment I can understand well: Fascination with Laura Bush.
So the premise grabbed my attention.In the novel, this Laura-esque character is a bit of a contradiction -- a true free thinker and yet an obedient wife and first lady.
And she even does a quite generous job with the George-esque character, finding a narrative that makes him both a dufus and intensely charming -- to the point that we can almost understand how he might manage to win the presidency.
This 'biographical fictional' tale of Laura Bush started out five stars, but finally fell flat in the last third of the book.
This book is no exception.However, the first three hundred or so pages of the book, the detailed descriptions of Milwaukee and surroundings; the lives of Alice as a young teenager and young adult, the colorful social set-up, and the historical background was really well done.
Alice (Laura Bush) started out as a strong protagonist, but ended up a pathetic whiner claiming noble victim status, trying very hard to be a heroine, but alas, did not make it - my opinion.
Wow. One of the best books I've read this year.Just forget what you might have heard about this book being a mirror of the life of Laura Bush (it is, but ...), it's really about the life of one woman, and purely on its own merits as a novel, it’s moving, thoughtful and wonderfully wrought.
And when you put it down for good, it’s like saying farewell to a dear friend.
I loved Curtis Sittenfeld's debut novel, Prep.
And while I wasn't thrilled when I discovered that the main character of this book was based upon Laura Bush, I remembered how brilliantly Ms. Sittenfeld crafted the coming of age story of her young protagonist in Prep.
An American Wife proved to be a refreshingly modern rendition of a classic American coming of age.
It seems that the author lost her focus after the main characters moved into the white house.
I could barely endure the main character's laundry list of complaints and regrets about her role as first lady.
It was distracting and it almost ruined a perfectly lovely book.
The main character is very compelling and I love the grandmother.
9/30: The first chapters are definitely the best, and my biggest problem with this novel is all the TELLING instead of SHOWING.
Also, how did the fairly interesting young Alice become this country club Junior League person?
Alice gets really dull, and we don't really see/understand her transformation b/c of the time shifts between sections.It was creepy to have to imagine George W.
That was another problem--I was always thinking about the real-life "characters," and so it's hard for me to respond to _American Wife_ as a novel.
The grandmother was still my favorite character.
Damn."Of course it's the parallel to that other First Lady that has people reading this book but it's in the first three sections that Sittenfeld creates this interesting and complex character (yeah, she's also pretty passive, but I understood why she was) that you can almost detach from that other First Lady.On reading some of the bad reviews ("here" as well as "there") I wonder whether people are allowing their antipathy for the Bush administration to color their opinions.
I understand this (to an extent) but I also understand how Sittenfeld can take a premise (see 2004 Salon article) and turn it into something that's not a memoir or a biography but a mostly unique work of fiction that is loosely inspired by real people and events.
The life of former First Lady Laura Bush might not sound like promising material, but this fictional autobiography delights.
When shy librarian Alice falls for Charlie, heir of the Blackwell political dynasty, private tragedies from her past − and her disagreement with her husband’s policies − threaten to emerge.
It’s delicious fun to spot Bush family and administration members in this roman à clef.
Imagining the rich inner story that resides in every unassuming introvert, Sittenfeld has created a masterpiece from an ordinary life.(With this 100-word review, I was one of 10 finalists for Stylist magazine’s Culture Critic competition in April 2011.
It was one of my first attempts at book reviewing!)
wow, my foray into new fiction turned ugly with the first of many sex scenes between a Laura Bush a clef and a George W.
That's really why I read this book, because of my interest in the everyday of the great, in contrast to the past many decades of democratic fiction (you might call it) with its obsessive attention to the ephemera of little lives, down to the brands that occur in them and their faintest (especially their faintest) sensoria.
A new entry in the venerable tradition of political pornography, in which the pornography, rather than discrediting "a great one" (un grand), burnishes his title to normalcy.Oh, plus I love how the word "zaftig" stands out like an SAT word in the pallid writing.
(How’s that for alliteration?) And as the central character, Alice, began to grow into a hugely likeable and deeply flawed friend, I became even more sure that Alice could not possibly have anything to do with any living or former First Lady.Then I lost my good sense and wanted to see what the “other kids are thinking.”So that’s how I found out that the main character is a veiled version of Laura Bush.
Now, when I pick this book back up, despite the roaringly good head start I had with it, every time the male central character has dialogue, I am tortured by hearing it as the weaselly George Bush would say it.OY.

(I'm pretty sure I thought about it in my sleep.) First, there's the fact that it's loosely based on the life of Laura Bush; second, there's the fact that Curtis Sittenfeld has a staggering talent for making characters absolutely real (even when they aren't real already; see PREP).
Sittenfeld gives so much insight into Alice Blackwell, and when you, as the reader, understand in such a close and detailed way what "Alice" is thinking and how she is feeling, it's nearly impossible not to be as sympathetic as the author.
It's really, truly, mind-opening (thinking, of course, of Laura Bush).
Three stars is really more of an average.
Four stars for the first half, and two for the last half.
However, when reading the first chunk of the book, I was excited, engaged, engrossed, and believed that Sittenfeld had pulled off something epic here, a truly staggering undertaking.
I'm interested to see what the reviews will have to say.
God knows there have been books with less strong beginnings and worse endings lauded as excellent.
(Indecision, I'm lookin' at you!) I have to say, based on the beginning, I'd say that full scale embrace of the book by reviewers would not bother me.
This thinly veiled fictional account of Laura Bush was absolutely fantastic. I'm sure the First Lady will be embarrassed by certain juicy, fabricated events, but all in all, I found this to be a love letter to her from the author, who claims to be a huge Laura Bush groupie. Sittenfeld is a true master of character development and this is some of the best fiction I've read in awhile--I couldn't put it down and stayed up way too late reading it.
Book on CD performed by Kimberly FarrFrom the book jacket On what might have been one of the most significant days in her husband’s presidency, Alice Blackwell considers the strange and unlikely path that has led her to the White House – and the repercussions of a life lived, as she puts it, “almost in opposition to itself.”My reactionsI was expecting a somewhat light look at a fictional first lady.
I liked that Sittenfeld takes the reader back to Alice’s childhood and introduces us to this young, quiet but inquisitive girl – an only child who lives in a small town with a loving family, including her grandmother who introduces her to the wonders of literature.
A character-driven story about Alice Blackwell, a small town girl who meets and falls in love with a rising Republican hot-shot from her home state of Wisconsin.
It ends up making the story feel very conversational, like sitting down with an old friend and catching up a bit.
The first hundred or so pages are all about establishing who Alice is, before we see her meet Charlie, the young Republican hot-shot whose star is on the rise.
Watching Charlie's star rise until he achieves the ultimate in political success is fascinating.
Well, This book was SUCH a disappointment.
I loved Prep.
I thought Sittenfeld was a master of nuance and capturing the excruciating sensitivity to every social nuance that is being a high school student.
However, this book's main character, based on Laura Bush, is extremely uninteresting.
I just never liked being inside her head, but I stubbornly kept reading.
Also, the sex scenes were difficult to read because I kept having to imagine George W and Laura, and it was just too much for me.
I kept wanting to transport the book to Midland and Dallas, Texas.
I enjoyed "American Wife". Curtis Sittenfeld is a wonderful writer. I liked her first book "Prep" years back, too.When is this great author going to write another book??
I—like many of the narrator's critics in the novel—viewed Laura Bush as a “Stepford Wife” whose background and life story held no interest for me whatsoever.
Whether you loved or hated the Bush's, or fell somewhere in between, this skillful work of modern-day historical fiction is a must-read.
N.B.: I’m not typically one to comment on book covers, but I do take issue with this one: Alice by her own account states that she wore a simple suit on the day she wed Charlie Blackwell.
To say that I'm not a GWB (and Laura) fan is an understatement, so I wasn't sure how I would feel about this book. I've never been one who could admire Laura while disliking her husband, and for many of the same reasons covered in the book. And after having read AMERICAN WIFE, if one can assume it has any accuracy as to Mrs. Bush, I still don't know that I LIKE her or admire her, but I found her story incredibly interesting. The novel itself is well-written, and quite a page turner. I'm anxious to discuss it.
Got about 20% into the book before I realized I'd been tricked into reading a fictionalized biography of Laura Bush's life. Hard pass on the George W. Bush smut, dude. God damn book club books...
Much like the protagonists of her novels American Wife and Prep, Curtis Sittenfeld, and her writing, are interesting, though interesting in a very quiet way.
Sittenfeld doesn’t commit to telling the most thrilling story but she does commit to respectfully recording the mundane events of a mundane person’s mundane daily life—and as a result, she shows that no one’s life is truly mundane.I have so much love for this unshowy style.
This broader scope weakens the novel because sometimes it doesn’t feel like Alice’s story but merely a story in which she plays a large role.
Like her debut novel Prep, American Wife is a lesson in passivity.
According to a brief interview at the end of the book, the author read some material about Laura Bush and got fascinated about why a seemingly compassionate and intelligent woman would marry someone like George W.
This book with the characters of Alice and Charlie was her fictional response to that question, and like most good fiction, it probably has more truth to it than any non-fiction book written.Alice is a woman haunted by a tragic accident and who doesn't quite understand her own love for the rich, spoiled, smug frat boy she married.
Well fuck me in a dog suit, this book turned out to be a fictionalized (view spoiler)[Laura Bush (hide spoiler)] memoir. In all likelihood I probably wouldn't have read it had I done the smallest bit of research (aka reading a few reviews). As it turns out, it was a pretty good book, at least the first three quarters. Early on, I noticed some similarities between Alice Blackwell and (view spoiler)[Laura Bush (hide spoiler)], but it took me nearly about half the book to realize that these were more than mere coincidences. Doh!
This book is loosely based on the Bushes, but the characters are Alice and Charlie Blackwell and they hail from Wisconsin, not Texas.
But, in Alice’s being analytical, over the course of the book I developed an appreciation for what it must be like to be a first lady.
He is as much like George as Alice is like Laura.) As for the quality of the book, I found it too long and there were lots of descriptions of clothing or rooms or car interiors that fell flat for me.
And I have a deeper understanding of what it’s like to live in the oval office and be an object of the public eye.
She plausibly fills in the gaps of Alice's life that seem like they fit the Laura Bush narrative, and Sittenfeld gets the little details right.Most surprisingly was her portrayal of Alice and Charlie Blackwell.
They are perfect complements to each other, just like I feel George and Laura are.I was debating between 4 and 5 stars but settled on 4, only because it goes off the rails slightly when Alice becomes First Lady in the last section of the book and she makes some questionable choices that I don't believe Laura Bush would EVER make.
