https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24388326-the-heart-goes-last
A new Margaret Atwood!!!!A new Margaret Atwood!!!!!A new Margaret Atwood!!!!!A new Margaret Atwood!!!!A new Margaret Atwood!!!!!
Stan and Charmaine were living in their car -married- having lost their jobs.
Back to Stan and Charmaine:They seem too afraid to leave their car most of the time in the beginning..( the monsters would get them), Rapist and thieves were wandering the streets.
They needed a 'little' money for a few essentials and Charmaine managed to land a job working at night in a bar.
In the new community, everyone had to spend a month in prison ( as an 'inmate' - paying forward any crime they may do in the future), lucky knuckleheads!
Think spending time away for a month, in the hole, encouraged innocent people to consider committing a crime?
Too little, too late.The issues include:Sex of all kinds, most of it exploitative in some way; civil liberties; informed consent (not just sexual, but certainly including that); brainwashing and propaganda; social control and compliance (cf Zimbardo); capitalism and profit; sex; identity; criminality, punishment and reform; love, betrayal and forgiveness; euthanasia; human trafficking and prostitution; murder; “recycling”; care homes for the elderly; Elvis; surveillance; pornography; AI robots; what makes us human; blackmail and extortion; free will; industrial espionage; exploitative sex; the good of society against the good of the individual, and empathy ((view spoiler)[it’s Stan’s original specialism, and something Charmaine is either very good at (sacramental attitude to giving a good death) or very bad at (doing it at all – but then she is highly suggestible and credulous) (hide spoiler)]).I think the book might work better if you start reading here, then go to the beginning and read the rest as backstory!Blue Knitted Teddy BearsA cute-kinky trope throughout the book.
Violence reigns, people sell baby blood for money and the couple has seemingly no escape until Charmaine sees an advert for a new project called Positron.
The problem is that when I read a novel by Atwood I don’t want ‘’average’’.
In my opinion, the major problem was the construction of the two characters that were utterly horrible.I don’t believe I am the kind of reader who will dislike a book because I failed to connect with the characters.
Furthermore, I don’t understand the vulgarity with which the theme of sex was treated and the extremely frequent use of the F-word every other sentence.
Soon she and Stan are separated and individually discover what’s really going on inside the armoured gates of the prison.Atwood has lots of fun setting up the bizarre Consilience community, which seems modelled after a 50s suburb and in fact offers up entertainment – the earnest, crooning songs and sanitized movies – from that same era to its citizens.
(Let’s just say that the people who run it want what happens in Positron to stay in Positron.)Atwood samples liberally from high and low culture, with the plot alluding to everything from A Midsummer Night’s Dream and The Stepford Wives to bad reality TV.Stan, like a lot of Atwood’s male characters, is fully fleshed out; in fact, he’s more believable than Charmaine.
It starts with an (American) society on the brink of meltdown (probably not too far in the future) with a married couple, Charmaine and Stan, reduced to living in their car following their layoffs, who respond to an ad touting an edenic, utopian experimental city called Consilience where crime is nearly non-existent (as is unemployment), housing is utilitarian and safe, and food is plentiful, with the only downside: every other month all residents must cede their house/apartment to "alternates" and report to prison (called Positron).
I'm really glad Atwood decided to finish the project and release the entire thing as a full length novel.
Surrendering your freedom of choice for the greater good always seems like the right thing to do, but somehow such social experiments are always destined to go off the rails eventually.
And lots of it.Atwood has a lot to say here about human sexuality too, and the nature of love -- both of the romantic variety, and the more lustful.
It shows us at our most selfish and self-indulgent, revealing our perpetual hunger for assurances we are in the right place, doing the right thing, sleeping with the right person.
CONSILIENCE = CONS + RESILIENCE."But Charmaine and Stan soon realize that, just like their fifties ideal, a facade of perfection isn't easy to maintain.Given the amusingly bizarre premise and the absolute absurdity of later events, I'm pretty sure that the book was intended to be black comedy.
The entire book is about sex, and every single example involves something with the flavor of rape, from Charmaine unprotestingly and joylessly allowing Stan to do what he wants to the more extreme versions found later.
Not rating this. There is not much more I can take of this. Pages and pages of the sex lives of the four main characters, Enough is enough already. I'm done. Started out promising and than slid down from there. Maybe die hard Atwood fans will think differently.
I feel along with the characters - no matter how bizarre the scenarios may be - because they feel human, living in altered worlds that nevertheless hold up a mirror to this one.The bizarre premise and the weird scenarios in The Heart Goes Last are, as another reviewer calls them, absolute absurdity, and the novel's biggest downfall is that it's never really believable.
The catch is they must alternate between living one month in prison and another month in an enclosed 1950s-style community.
This entire novel feels in bad taste, like a funny B-movie where you see the strings holding up the UFO, mocking the reader's intelligence.
What starts off as inspired dystopian horror, a parable or metaphor for the ages, heartbreakingly bleak, soon after delves into bleh. The title tells all: the taut & pretty perfect prose of Atwood (sorry lame musicians & beadyeyed actors, THIS is Canada's BEST export) has heart until it just doesn't. The beating is thus finished, the rigor mortis sets in within moments....This--her latest--may just be my least favorite of hers. (Horrors!)
Is ‘The Heart Goes Last’ just one more story of a possible future where propaganda sells the dream, whilst overlaying and concealing the covert agenda of power grabbing and exploitation of the many by the few, resulting in the proverbial nightmare….?
This is a darkly compelling, intelligently written, thought-provoking and occasionally shocking story; it’s as much about relationships, love, commitment and betrayal as it is about power, corruption and lies, greed, fake news and propaganda, as it is about the possibility of a dystopian nightmare such as this one awaiting us – and perhaps not even that far ahead?
'The Heart Goes Last' balances on a tightrope between humor and horror - and manages to ride its unicycle all the way across.The sharp social satire begins with Charmaine and Stan, a married couple, victims of the recession, who have been reduced to living out of their car.
maybe that's not the ONLY catch.Of course, Charmain and Stan sign up...
I think the reason may have been that those were fairly 'serious' books (or at least, I was reading them as such), and the humor in them felt slightly misplaced.
With this book, it's wholly satirical, so the unlikely absurdities worked.
Wow - this book was weird!
But, very interesting an unique.
Throughout the whole thing it kept changing directions so I never knew what was coming.
But, it was not in a big plot twist sort of way, it was in a "how is that monkey going to get to New York?
Oh, he is going to ride a turkey that is a disabled war veteran" sort of way.
(if what I just wrote makes sense to you, then I am not explaining it very well)If you like weird tales with a few laughs and a lot of head scratching, this is the book for you!
Margaret Atwood has long been a wry, incisive prophet.
From “The Handmaid’s Tale” to her “Oryx and Crake” trilogy, she’s exposed our current ills by peering down the path and discerning perils fast approaching.In that time-traveling mode, I’ve just returned from next Tuesday and can report that her upcoming novel is a silly mess.Several chapters of “The Heart Goes Last” appeared a few years ago in serial form on Byliner under the title “Positron.” At the time, Atwood told NPR that she was inspired by the serial productions of 19th-century novelists such as Charles Dickens.
(It’s no coincidence his brother’s nickname is “Con.”)One day Charmaine sees an ad for the Positron Project and convinces Stan to sign them up.
Doris Day and Bing Crosby play over the speakers (“The past is so much safer, because whatever’s in it has already happened”), but everyone rides scooters and cheerfully goes about their jobs – Stan as a poultry inspector, and Charmaine in hospital procurement.Yet Positron has some sordid and even sinister side-projects.
What is she doing sneaking around derelict houses, and what is her top-secret job within the prison?Gradually both Stan and Charmaine, separately, get caught up in a conspiracy to take Positron down from the inside.
I'm not sure that came from the publisher so I am not accusing them of anything, but at least the first episode was present within this novel verbatim (the "I'm Starved for You" fuchsia lipstick part for those of you familiar with it.) The novel still reads like a string of episodes and the parts written to pull it together feel halfhearted.
I think the back story should have been intertwined into the novel because by the end some of these elements are repetitive - in the way a serial can get away with, when you can't guarantee the reader has read all of it.
I somehow managed to finish this book and cannot decide what point Margaret Atwood is trying to make.
None of the bad things that happen really require the prison-for-housing scheme setup and the plot (lust!betrayal!other less interesting things!) could have unfolded anywhere.She lost me at the point when we find out that Jocelyn (second-in-command, chief of surveillance and co-founder of the Positron project) lives, implausibly, like everyone else in a shared house one month and, one would presume, in jail the next.
No.This was a lost opportunity to hear Margaret Atwood (who better?) confront morality, free will, power and loss.
And better than a warm  watermelon, too, the latter being not all that responsive." Charmaine, thinking Stan is dead, realizes that she loves him after all.
Stan becomes a reluctant Elvis impersonator, living in the "Elvisorium" in Las Vegas.
That shouldn't be too hard for you".As you can imagine, all of this is fertile ground for Atwood's lively imagination and outrageous humor.Terrific Audio ReadersThe audio readers are terrific on this one.Cassandra Campbell (whose work I haven't always liked in the past) is absolutely spot on as the chirpy, ditzy Charmaine, an air headed blonde Barbie doll.Mark Deakins, who's read other Atwood audios, is quite good as Stan.Have Fun!
Atwood writes very believable dystopian worlds—this one is set after a global economic meltdown where things are getting pretty desperate for regular people, those who are currently being politically courted & labelled as “middle class.” Stan & Charmaine are living in their car, struggling to survive.
To me, it seems that Atwood nails it, but I’m female and I’m just judging by the men in my own life and those thoughts that they are willing to share with me.Ever notice how the dystopian worlds are always complicated by human sexuality?
And the characters go bad too, but like really bad, way badder than I would have expected them to go, although of course the idea is that desperation and fear make you do things you never thought you would do, which obviously makes this, like every Atwood ever, crucial reading for these terrifying times, instructional or anti-instructional manuals for how to not fucking be if things in the here and now go as badly as some of us (ME) think they might.
So yes read it, read everything of hers, and think about the ways you will NOT go bad, when push comes to shove, because we can't just all fall apart and turn hideous, you know?
However, by the end with the organ harvesting, blue bears knitting by inmates for the pedophiles, sexbots, green man group, Elvises and Marilyns it became obvious that the book is entirely satirical and meant to be comical.
This novel is very dark and makes you realize that the author believes we are heading as a society in a very unsavory direction.I was so excited to embark on this novel after reading the premise: a couple destitute in this futuristic world decides to sign up for “Consilience,” a social experiment, where you spend alternate months in a prison and in a home with stable jobs within the confines of Positron.
(hide spoiler)] It starts out promisingly, in a dystopian near-future, the kind the Atwood does so well: Stan and Charmaine are a down-and-out couple who’ve lost their jobs and home and are living in their car.
Stan and Charmaine are the sort who are taken in by time-share salesmen, and that’s more or less what happens: an opportunity comes along to join a mysterious movement that promises jobs, food, housing and good living – the only catch is it’s a one-way ticket : after you sign up you can’t go back.
In the near-distant future, Stan and Charmaine are living in a world where the economy has crashed, violence and crime are at an all-time high, and there doesn't seem to be a way out.
When the economy crashed, they lost everything and now live out of their car.
One night, while working at a bar, Charmaine sees an advertisement for a life changing opportunity--move to the town of Consilience, where one can live a secure middle-class life.
Stan and Charmaine quickly sign on the dotted line and give themselves over to the Positron (the corporation that runs Consilience).
*uuuuugggghhhhhhhhh* the ending of this book is so, so frustrating.
I very much enjoyed the story, though it seemed so out of touch with typical Atwood fiction.
But then, for the book to end on such a disappointing note!
These people learned nothing.
They did not retain their morality, after everything they had seen at Positron they still chose to move forward with Charmaine's supposed operation.
It was so frustrating for me, to see these characters go through such a journey that somehow plops them back at the same moral standing they started the novel with.
Definitely not my favorite Atwood.
2.5 estrellasEs un libro que comenzó super bien, tiene una premisa muy interesante. Pero luego pierde demasiado el sentido y se vuelve bastante ridículo, no termina de pasar nada y es simplemente sexo mal descrito. No dudo de las capacidades de Margaret Atwood, ya que con el cuento de la criada me engancho como ninguna y escribió algo que realmente merecía la pena leer. Esta distopía sin embargo, es muy insulsa y no me convenció. Igual la terminé de leer así que algo es algo no?
I was pleased with this reading. If any book could be bipolar, this would be it. On one side- the worst of human atrocities (pedophilia, selective euthanasia, illegal organ harvesting), and on the other side - dry, emotionless language in which it all was presented. Because there is nothing wrong with manufacturing bionic children/toddlers-sex dolls as a way to eradicate sex trafficking. Right?Definitely messed with my head. Recommended.
Another marvellous Atwood novel, accessible on so many levels. The (unsettlingly prescient) futuristic plot is filled with asides to folk-tales - Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, Beauty and the Beast - with a running CLOCKWORK ORANGE motif. Marvellous; grim; funny; dark. And sadly, all too plausible...
I am so uncomfortable with the idea of rating an Atwood book 2 stars but I feel like I have to given my experience with this novel.
The premise is good - I love how Atwood views dystopian situations and I think this particular premise had a great deal of promise.
I only kept reading because I was convinced that Atwood would take all of this oddness to a place that would redeem the entire work.
I didn't connect with this novel and I think this may well be the worst Atwood I've ever read.
Es rematadamente bueno. Sin duda Margaret Atwood es la reina de las distopías que fácilmente podrían hacerse realidad. Nada de zombies ni cosas raras, todo posibilidades de lo más plausibles. De ahí que sus historias den un miedo tremendo.Sin duda terminaré por leer todo lo que haya publicado esta buena mujer.
