https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20663740-eleanor-and-franklin
Eleanor and Franklin cronicles the evolution of Eleanor Roosevelt from an insecure girl and young woman into a woman who would impact the lives of many, many people.
When visiting US installations during WWII, more than once she heard soldiers cry out "Hey, there's Eleanor!" She radiated warmth and compassion with a down-to-earth style that made people feel like she belonged to them in some way.
Mr. Lash takes the time to show us the circumstances in Eleanor's life that shaped and formed her into the remarkable woman she was.
To some extent it is a book focused on the relationship between Eleanor and Franklin.But what “Eleanor and Franklin” really proves to be is an insightful, detailed and often dense review of the life of a remarkable woman who transformed herself from an insecure, orphaned young girl into the compelling champion of a wide array of humanitarian causes.
And his review of the First Lady’s fact-finding trip to the South Pacific during World War II is both fascinating and revealing.Overall, Joseph Lash’s “Eleanor and Franklin” provides an interesting and often insightful perspective into the life of Eleanor Roosevelt and her partnership with Franklin.
This was an odd reading experience.
Normally I finish books quickly, which isn't at all a boast.
I have often envied those who engage with books languidly, savouring the experience.
I, on the other hand, have long sessions, breaking books and getting indigestion.
It was impossible to do that with this book: it was dense.
Really, really dense with tiny font and squished paragraphs that gave me images of Lash sitting on an overfilled suitcase trying to zip it while also pleading with his publishers that it really does adhere to the weight limit.
The accompanying book was a good overview, but just got me interested in learning more details about Eleanor.
This book more than quenched my desire: a bit too long - I wanted details, I got details!
I was exhausted just reading about her many, many activities, and while it seemed like she had a very full life on her own, she was also the "eyes and ears" of her disabled husband.
She eventually became aware of her power - although she attributed it all to Franklin - but the good she did in her life was unprecedented, and completely changed the role of First Lady in the U.S. Highly recommended.
The first ER was a daughter of wealth and leisure, her life being a succession of parties, trips, sporting events, dances and receptions, punctuated only by a notable three-year finishing education in England.
Then, after her marriage to the ambitious Franklin, Eleanor begins to become her own person, a change inspired she claimed by her discovery of his infidelity.
This process accelerates as their children become independent and as they enter the White House, Eleanor becoming the effective conscience of the administration and an influential activist in her own right.
This trajectory is traced until the death of her husband, the last eighteen years of her life not being described at all.
This was a nice, readable biography, primarily of Elaenor Roosevelt.
I chose this biography because it had won the Pulitzer and was presumably reasonably accurate and well written, and because it was written by a family friend.
I wasn't in the mood for a sensationaly, super-revisionist book casting Eleanor as a 21st century feminist.
It did feel a little old school, though, having been written in the 1970s, and I found myself curious about how more recent historians think about Eleanor and Franklin with a bit more hindsight and current perspective.
4. Both Eleanor and Franklin's lives have so many sad stories of unrequitted love.
After Eleanor Roosevelt's death, her children gave family friend Joseph Lash, who had already written a memoir on Eleanor, her private papers with the hopes that he could compile them into a book.
However, if you're going to call a book Eleanor and Franklin, and subtitle it with the claim that it's the story of their relationship, maybe you should begin with their relationship, and not with Eleanor's childhood.
Sure, there was a lot of great stuff, letters she'd written to friend and family, including her uncle TR, but maybe write a separate book on that.
"Eleanor & Franklin" is an awesome achievement of interview, research and writing.
Joseph Lash produced a tome which ever will be valued by scholars and historians.
I think I have never read all of this giant book but I have read some chapters/parts two times, or three times.
Standing in front of Mt. Fuji and being disappointed.
My reaction to, "Eleanor & Franklin," is similar.
Here is a Mt. Fuji of historical literature but I still do not know the actual interrelation between Eleanor and Franklin - and perhaps I should not, and perhaps none of us should.
Joseph Lash helps to appreciate all this.
I could not put this book down, you hear so much of the Franklin Presidency and now you learn so much of Eleanor.
It has letters that she and Franklin wrote to each other.
I love books that put you in the life of the character almost on a day to day basis.
In the beginning of her life you would have never expected Eleanor to be such an important part of the presidency; which I don't know if that was bad or good.
My next goal is to read what her life was after President Franklin passed away.
Magnificently written book about a magnificent woman.
Eleanor Roosevelt combined her caring and compassionate heart, achieved through years of quiet suffering, and her brilliant intellect to be a woman for all people for all time.
A very dense book with tiny font, at times it delved so deeply into the minutia of 1930s & 40s politics that I would break from it to read other books.
That said, it's some of the most worthwhile reading I've ever done.
This world could use another Eleanor to grace its stage - with her among us again it would unquestionably be a better place to live.
This is a very detailed and meticulously researched book based upon the diaries and correspondence of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, along with other key players in early 20th century politics. I’m perplexed by the author’s decision not to explore FDR’s efforts to get the groundbreaking, and then controversial, Social Security Act signed into law in 1935. Regardless, this book was well worth the long read and left me curious to learn more, especially about Eleanor’s life after her husband’s death.
I could not finish this book. I have read many books on the fascinating and amazing Eleanor Roosevelt. This is by far the driest and most boring. Written by her trusted assistant, it seems he just went through her letters and other correspondence and put them in chronological order. A painful read that I just could not finish.
I first read this book in the early 70s when I was your typical 20+-year old idealist and not political savvy.
What I took away from the book was Eleanor's fight for equal rights for the black race and Franklin staying in the background because of the southern Democrats.
Because I'm older now, I found it so interesting to discover that the political fight back then very much parallels the arguments still used today.
Her thoughts on that would have been interesting.
I highly recommend the book, especially to those who not only have an interest in history, but also political viewpoints.
Having read a lot of books on ER it's hard to rate them because so much is just a repeat of what's already known.
It's a bit strange because there's a lot of R family set up info and then nothing about ER post FDR.
I know the author had a personal relationship with ER but this lacks any emotion or intimate details - which closely reflects ERs own memoirs.
It's a good book if you want to read everything written by or about ER, or just want an emotion free overview.
I didn't know she was Theodore Roosevelt's niece (she is Eleanor Roosevelt Roosevelt), she married her 2nd cousin, she was an orphan, she had a very difficult childhood, she was an insecure child, young bride and mother, she was bullied by her mother-in-law, and Franklin wasn't the ideal husband and she had absolutely no desire to be in the spotlight.
Yet, through it all, she became one of the most storied woman in American history.
Isn't that what makes an amazing story?
She was an amazing woman and definitely deserves to be among the greats of history.
HOORAY!
I FOUND THIS BOOK under the seat of my car!
It wasn't even my children's fault!
(Ahem.) ***July 21, 2009 Update:Book MISSING!
I mean, where does a book go?
I haven't seen it for weeks, nay, months!
at this rate I may never never know anything about the Roosevelts.***I can't seem to make it through a book lately.
So my dad being my dad trotted up to his book-lined study this week and pulled a few off the shelf that he thought may get me back in the swing.
I know so little about Eleanor Roosevelt - and the whole era.
It is a very detailed and fascinating look into the lives of two of America's most famous/controversial people.
The thing I found the most FASCINATING was both Roosevelts' initial admiration for Josef Stalin and the way they were so enamored with the whole Communist ideal.
Many of the government programs that both promoted during their time in the White House were reflections of this fascination for Communism/socialism.
The challenges they faced with FDR's polio made them fighters and overcomers in many ways.
The book was another fascinating and successful blending of two biographies by the author Jos. Lash
More of an exhaustive history than an interpretive biography, it is nonetheless worth the effort.
I picked it up to prepare for an upcoming weekend in Hyde Park, and the length - 900 pages in paperback!
- means that I'll still be reading when I return.
There's so much fascinating detail here about two figures so towering that it pulls you through the mechanical pace and academic tone.
Still, I feel the same way I did when I somehow managed to outlast Robert Caro in the Power Broker: it's a pity that the author didn't work with an editor disciplined enough to hone the book to something more merciful to the reader.
I read the first 200 pages or so, which gave a very detailed account of Eleanor's early life, including how she and Franklin fell in love (and yes, it was love!)Eleanor was an amazing force, who triumphed over a miserable childhood and disappointing marriage to achieve great things.
She is definitely worth reading about.
This particular book is based largely on correspondence.
There are too many long quotes from letters for my taste, although I might continue with the book at some point.
The part I read was really interesting, but I will probably turn to more general histories before I come back to this one.
I learned so much reading this book! The author does a great job of bouncing around between history, politics, ethics, and common human experiences. You are left with a sense of awe at the person portrayed as Eleanor Roosevelt. She was a woman of incredible energy and conviction, and definitely had much to do with the success of her husband. And though the author was a personal friend of Mrs. Roosevelt, he still paints a realistic picture of her strengths and weaknesses as a person in this well-documented, enthralling narrative.
Just fabulous! It had all of their years of their marriage, but mostly White House years. It was a complicated but intelligent. They had an open marriage before it had ever been heard of.They were cousins, both born to wealth and privilege, but somehow so level headed about it all. I would highly recommend this book to anyone who loves historical truth from the people who lived it. As this book is based on letters written to and from each other. Also assistants, doctors, secretary's, caregivers, & their own children.
This book is really really good... but I found I knew more about Eleanor Roosevelt than my own kids. It is a lot more detail than I have the mental space for right now. But it is good and someday, when we have a new administration and I don't have to compare and despair, I will pick this book back up. But reading it now and seeing how far we have fallen.... it just adds to my general bleak outlook on America in 2017.
I give it three stars because it is very long and sort of confusing/complex. I wish it would have talked more about what happened after FDR died, but then again it was more on Eleanor and Franklin, so I can understand. It was a pretty good book and cholk full of facts. I actually didn't read the whole thing- I decided it was too long, so I skimmed through it. I think I'll re-check it out and actually read it. Its gotten pretty good reviews.
Revealing, intimate biography that places ER in the context of her marriage, written by a close friend. Pays detailed attention to phases of ER's life up to FDR's death, but slights important friendships, such as Dickerman/Cook, Miller, Hickok (published before the Hickok correspondence was unsealed). While ER dominates, this Pulitzer-winning biography is a balanced, weighty look at a power couple in a political marriage.
My copy of "Eleanor & Franklin" is much better looking than this thumbnail. I say that because I admit that I have not bought books because the cover art was so repelling. I wouldn't have bought this book if it looked like the thumbnail. That said, if you come across this book, swallow hard and buy it. It's wonderful.
This is exactly the way I like to read history-- lots and lots of personal detail, quotes, correspondence and journals: you really get to enter into these lives. Eleanor and Franklin were two remarkable individuals and Lash does them both justice.The amount of beneficent activity Eleanor could perform in a day-- and do well-- is just stunning. A genuine heroine.
I hated to have to give up on this book. Joseph Lash's research is beyond reproach and he's a good writer. It's just not in a style that I am able to read, and I'm finding myself seeking any other thing to do rather than sink into it. It's a good book if you're the right reader for it; sadly I'm not the right reader.
The story of their relationship, based on Eleanor Roosevelt's private papers. A woman who was a majestic figure of her time. The chronicle of a woman and a marriage. A masterpiece of vivid evocation and sympathetic understanding.
I read Eleanor and Franklin back in the late 70's when I was going through a phase of reading biographies.. Their experience of being on Campobello Island when Franklin was stricken with polio was brought to life a few years after I read this when I was able to visit the Roosevelt home there.
I read this one a long time ago (in the 70s or 80s, I think, and had forgotten about it until I saw the recent Ken Burns show on the Roosevelts, with an interview with Mrs Lash. I loved this book--it was an interesting look inside the lives of two extremely complicated and amazing people.
