https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33413128-beartown
There are few things I love more than reading a book that is wholly different than what an author is known for, so I knew I had to pick this one up quickly and see what all the fuss was about.
I found that the overall plot and the hockey scenes awoke that same feeling I used to have while watching high school baseball and it brought to life a sport I never dreamed I could become entranced by.
There are a great deal of characters in this novel; the ever-changing and growing cast seems to add multidimensional aspects to the story that cause it to leap off the page and bury deep into your mind.
'Beartown' is precisely that type of book.
Knowing only that it centered on a junior hockey team in a small town, I had envisioned something akin to 'The Mighty Ducks' played out on paper.However, as the 5-star reviews kept rolling in, I grew increasingly interested.
'Beartown' is the type of book that tempts you to play sick and call-in to work so that you can keep reading/listening.
I became completely engrossed in this story as it unfolded.Beartown is like many small towns across the globe.
It was the type of book that moves you.Without a doubt, I would recommend 'Beartown' to everyone.
Hockey is more than just a game in the 'Beartown'....it's the focus of the community's small town universe.
Everyone is affected.....The game itself requires sacrifice -- long training sessions for the kids - Dedication from coaches, ( old school and new school thoughts of best way to train young kids) , wives, children, and friends of the team are aware they live in HOCKEY TOWN.
......Having buried a father and son within a year period, being the General Manager of the junior Hockey team gave Peter Andersson the feeling of keeping something alive.
David and Sune - both hockey coaches argued about whether a 17-year-old could be ready to play in the A-team.
Here's a little bit of a confession: while I really enjoyed Fredrik Backman's book  A Man Called Ove , and the charming curmudgeon who was its main character, I have found in recent years that there seems to be a glut of charming yet misunderstood curmudgeons doddering their way through modern fiction.So despite people's warm feelings about Backman's next two books, I passed, because I have enough to worry about becoming a (hopefully) charming curmudgeon someday soon. However, I did pounce on hi
, and the charming curmudgeon who was its main character, I have found in recent years that there seems to be a glut of charming yet misunderstood curmudgeons doddering their way through modern fiction.So despite people's warm feelings about Backman's next two books, I passed, because I have enough to worry about becoming a (hopefully) charming curmudgeon someday soon.
Beartown's junior ice hockey team is about to compete in the national semifinals, and many in town think they're going to win.
"People round here don't always know the difference between right and wrong.
But we know the difference between good and evil."Fredrik Backman is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.
Questions of morality and loyalty, passion over logic, and right vs wrong.
The background story of every character is perfectly developed and important in the fine tapestry the Backman weaves.
With some books you may reach the end having found one or two really great quotes.
as almost every page has a fantastic quote that is worth remembering after the story is done.
Backman is good, REALLY good!
4.5 out of 5 stars to Beartown, a 2016 contemporary novel by Fredrik Backman. Although the book had a bit of a difficult start for me, it developed into an emotionally-charged hot bed, triggering anger and frustration over so many things about the human race... and I'm quite glad I read it and enjoyed it. But wow... I haven't a visceral emotional reaction to words like this in a very long time.  Why This Book  Beartown began showing up on a few of my Goodreads' friends booklists earlier this yea
I read the overview and saw many comments that "although the premise of all about a junior hockey team, it's so much more." I had a hard time believing that to be true but thought it might be worth a chance if I could get it from NetGalley.
It feels like a typical American sports town, (but the story is set in Sweden) breeding team camaraderie fueled in some cases by hatred and anger, but in a few, promoting acceptance and tolerance.Each of the key team members (8 to 10) has a personal story.
If they win, they expected investments will be made in the town and it will be a better place.But even if Beartown only talks about hockey, the book is much more.
In more than one opportunity it will leave you feeling more of an emotion.Undoubtedly it is one of the best books I've ever read.✨✨✨No siempre, aunque más en el último año, compro los libros que tienen mucha publicidad.
Pero aunque en Beartown solo se habla de hockey, el libro es mucho más.
Sin lugar a dudas es uno de los mejores libros que he leído.
This is a novel, unlike any of your others, yet it’s so full of heart and emotion that we the readers know emphatically that it is yours.
This one is to be treasured.Now, what can I possibly say about this story, without giving it away?Beartown is a town that eat, sleeps and goes to bed thinking about one thing: Hockey.
Fredrik Backman evokes it from each and every reader and here, he does so in a way that he has never done before.
A huge thank you to NetGalley, Atria Books and the amazing Fredrik Backman for giving me this ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Backman tells us early on what I was about to discover for myself."Why does anyone care about hockey?
This is the story of many of the town's residents - the kids, their families and how they are connected by the game, but the connections are more than just the game .
My favorite characters are Maya, who in the face of being victimized provides the strength and love that holds her family together and of course Ramona who lifts herself out of her grief to save the town from itself.
Late one evening, toward the end of March, a teenager picked up a double-barreled shotgun, walked into the forest, put the gun to someone else's forehead, and pulled the trigger. This is the story of how we got there. At first I wasn't really getting into this book. I don't know why because:1) I love the author2) I love hockey3) I love coming of age stories4) I love the cold 5) I love small towns. I was born in one.It finally got to where I liked it enough to change stars from 3 to 4. Although,
I don't know why because:1) I love the author2) I love hockey3) I love coming of age stories4) I love the cold 5) I love small towns.
Don't get me wrong, it was a great ending.
Let me just say I wouldn't haven't walked away and maybe those that have read it will know what I'm talking about.
This whole little community of Beartown is nothing but hockey baby.
these kids are all different ages and of course everyone in the town knows each other.
A lot of them have been there since the ice age.

I never expected to love this book.
Beartown is about a declining small town in Sweden that revolves around it's hockey team.
There are so many characters in this book, including current hockey players and former players.
The fate of this town revolves around hockey.
I could keep casting but you will just get a list of my favorite actors!
I wouldn't recommend this as a first listen only because there are so many different characters in the story but otherwise I highly recommend the audio!
It will be on many people's top 10 list of 2017 for sure!
I'm the outlier again, I guess.
I DID like this but didn't love it as many readers clearly did.
Backman certainly has a gift for developing characters that feel real and for creating atmosphere, but I didn't love the narrative structure he uses here.
Honestly, I don't do well with "folksy" books and this is one of those varmints.I did like very much the ice hockey setting and the Swedish forest where Beartown is set.
I liked the plot and the characters, I just didn't care for how it was packaged and delivered.
But when I read Backman's last full length novel -- Britt-Marie Was Here -- I wondered whether Backman was a one trick pony, the formula being to create a quirky difficult character and the people who come to love him/her because he/she has a good heart under that gruff exterior.Well it turns out that Backman is no One Trick Pony, and he has a lot to write about besides quirky difficult characters.
Beartown is nothing like Backman 's earlier novels.
The novel focuses on an ensemble of disparate characters associated with the hockey team in different ways.
now THIS is how you tell a story.
the writing is definitely the strength of this book; and it makes me wish i was fluent in swedish, because i know it would be an even more remarkable story in its native/original language (if thats even possible).
this book felt as if fredrik backman had invited me into his home, made me a cup of tea, and sat next to me as he told he a story that came straight from his heart.
you can tell so much love went into writing this, because only someone who loves people could write about them this beautifully and this honestly.
my heart is so full.
No, my rating reflects the fact that this book engaged all my thoughts, all my emotions, in essence I identified with it in a big way.
If no other team is beaten that season but that one, it is considered a victory.This story embraces way more than the sport though, it also showcases the boys, the coaches, the fans, backers, other students in town and of course the parents.
Something terrible happens in this little town, in fact the story opens with an ominous act of foreshadowing.
Now it becomes a questions of judgment, town judgment, team judgment, of integrity and being brave enough to do the right thing.
The players are obsessed!
The parents are obsessed!
The residents are obsessed!
Lives revolve around hockey, and if you don’t tow the line, there are plenty of buses to be thrown under.
The locals are hanging their hats and hopes on the junior hockey team winning the state championship and putting Beartown back on the map of prosperity.Filled to the brim with characters essential to the success of the hockey program, the story is told in short segments, a look as you will into the lives of each individual.
Beartown will never be the same!Fredrik Backman is a masterful storyteller.
"I just want to play." Peter laughs.
Hed Hockey are going to have a fantastic team, financial resources, you'll have much better opportunities to develop there." Benji gives a nonchalant shrug.
d*mn good book.
And it underlines the quality of the author, this story being so different in storyline and style of writing, from his other books.
and think about this book;-) Highly recommended for those who have not read this one yet!The story in short: People say Beartown is finished.
And that ice rink is the reason people in Beartown believe tomorrow will be better than today.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!Well I was born in a small townAnd I can breathe in a small townGonna die in this small townAnd that's prob'ly where they'll bury me -- John Cougar MellencampBeartown is a small town in Sweden, the kind of small town where people are born there, live there and die there, generation after generation. Beartown is, among other things, all about hockey. The lives of those who inhabit this small town are lived around the games, the practices, all the working out in-between. What l
Beartown knows it needs players like Kevin to lift this small town out of the slump it’s been in for too long.
With a win in the semifinals of the junior tournament, they’d get attention, maybe more money would trickle down as a result, maybe even the long wished for hockey school this town needs.
They all know with a big hockey school in town the rest would follow.
Maya plays guitar, but life still revolves around hockey, everywhere in town, in her life.
Beartown is a small, dwindling northern community that is being slowly but surely consumed by the ever encroaching trees.
Hockey is the business of Beartown and they are poised on the cusp of great success with their junior team this year.
Winning is everything.But when a tragic event occurs the people of this small community are left reeling and suddenly at odds, unsure where to place their faith anymore.
It is a inner look at how people, families, teams, those alone and in communities respond in the face of adversity.
The Scandal is the British title for Beartown, a remote northern town in Sweden, a place in a cycle of economic decline and a community with an unabashed primal tribal obsession with its junior ice hockey team.
A hockey team from whom much is expected and demanded, instrumental in defining the identity of a wide array of characters that inhabit this superlative novel, each providing their pivotal piece to the story.
There are so many notable characters from Benji and the amazing Ramona as we see if Beartown is capable of delivering justice with bated breath.One of the major reasons Backmann's novel is so powerful and successful is that he taps into the universality of passion for sport.
When the junior team is actually poised to win the finals this year the whole town starts to become hopeful about the future.
Things become tense in this environment when a violent act is perpetrated by one of the boys on the team the night of the semi-finals, leaving the whole town feeling that their future is in jeopardy.
Like there was a lot put into the book that felt unnecessary to the story line and it detracted from it.
I really enjoy it when books humanize characters whose actions we may find abhorrent because I think its one of those things we tend to lose sight of in day to day life.
The cast of characters still embodies the author’s trademark quirkiness at times, but in this novel he doesn’t mask the sadness, anger, or other emotions behind the offbeat charm or dysfunction of the characters, like we’ve seen in the past.
I liked the ending, was pleased by the way things worked out, and the powerful way the author allowed the suspense to build to an almost unbearable pitch while soothingly assuring us all will be well.
It’s sad that some readers insist they do, often complaining that one book is not exactly like the others he or she as written.
On the surface, Beartown is a book about hockey, but it’s so much more!
Beartown is about friendship, loyalty, family, and, loss.
It’s about a town that’s fighting to stay alive.
It’s about a town that becomes divided over what’s right and wrong, good vs.
It's about the bravest people who break away from the pack to do what’s right, even though the consequences might destroy the town that they love.
this is a book about love.
I honestly cannot find the words to convey what an amazing book this is.
Beartown is more than a book--it’s an experience.
"Like they say in Beartown: some people have the bear in them." I had very high expectations going into this one, and while they were met, I was completely surprised by the way this story went.Turns out I really didn't know what was going to happen, which meant I was constantly shocked.Beartown is a hockey town first and foremost.
The wonderful thing is that we can all live through far more days like that than we think.
The terrible thing is that we never know exactly how many." ************************************************************Bold, honest, infuriating and completely outstanding.
6/5 Stars Every. Damn. Time.  ’Culture is as much about what we encourage as what we permit.’ It’s taking every ounce of whatever self restraint I have left not to go back and start the cycle again. This book will be the death of me! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Last Read - 23/03/186/5 starsIncredible. INCREDIBLE! I couldn’t give it (ME!) 5 stars fast enough. I can’t remember the last time was this consumed by a book and its characters. Right now I’m feeling too many emotions, my thoughts are
6/5 Stars Every.
This book will be the death of me!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Last Read - 23/03/186/5 starsIncredible.
I couldn’t give it (ME!) 5 stars fast enough.
I can’t remember the last time was this consumed by a book and its characters.
Right now I’m feeling too many emotions, my thoughts are scattered everywhere and I am so fucking pissed off because I cannot articulate just how magnificent this book is because I want everyone to read it!!
Now, excuse me while I go sit in a corner and count down the minuets to June for the release of book two.
READ IT!
5 stars, no halves or equivocation, a completely fulfilling reading experience that I'd recommend to anyone and everyone.Fredrik Backman executes his portrayal of a small, hockey-obsessed, economically challenged town and its inhabitants perfectly: the characters are well-drawn and specific and believable, the details and histories and culture woven into the dialogue and actions throughout.
Ultimately, I was completely entranced by Beartown, and Backman's novel is an exemplar of how to cover the whole of the human condition in a single story; how to juggle and wrestle with the myriad emotions and motivations of individuals and collectives, big ideas like love and loyalty and small needs and desires like wanting a better job for one's parent who is increasingly in pain working as a cleaner.
"The town wakes early, like it does every day; small towns need a head start if they’re going to have any chance in the world." He also does a fantastic job of bringing the stinging chill of these fictional Swedish towns right into your own living room - even if you happen to be reading in the broiling heat of summer as I did.
I’d love to read more with a specific focus on one or two of Beartown’s characters in a later book - minus the teen culture perhaps.
A strange thing to say because if a person were to look at my "read" shelf, I have obviously highly enjoyed Fredrik Backman's books.
It was the plot- the fact that that this book would talk about a small town and its obsessive love for hockey.
As I began reading "Beartown," I could feel that this book was hitting pretty close to home.
More jobs disappear each year, and with them the people, and the forest devours one or two more abandoned houses each season.
Now the focus of this book is a hockey town, its players, coaches, and family members.
This sets the tension and suspense rolling from the very first sentence.We also find out that Beartown is a small town somewhere in Sweden where hockey rules, and the club’s uniforms are dark green, with white trim, and a brown emblem on the front – forest, ice, and earth.
The theme of forest, ice, and earth is carried through the book describing variously, the people, the town itself, the hockey club, and how individuals interact with each other.There is a game description roughly 40% into the book that was so vivid that I felt I had been playing myself!
