https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/598159.Panda_Bear_Panda_Bear_What_Do_You_See_
After the lyrical, almost mystical revelation that was "Brown Bear, Brown Bear," let's hope this woeful follow-up is relegated to the ashheep of history and Carle is put to death for his heinous crime.
Panda Bear, Panda Bear, you know what I see?
Thanks for making me believe in the magic of make-believe and then dousing me in the cold water of commercial reality.
I will be leading a rally against "Panda Bear, Panda Bear" and the Von Holtzbrinck Publishing Group, location as yet to be determined, on Christmas Day this year, or sometime thereafter.
Thank you.
There are lots of wiggle and stretch opportunities for children in this book, so in our story time w
The story is very repetitive, which was good for the children as they were able to join in with these parts of the story - it became really interactive for them.
This book worked really effectively as an educational text due to the wide range of vocabulary that the author uses, e.g. using words such as 'charging' and 'swinging' to describe the movements of various animals in the story.
The children enjoyed being introduced to these new words and then doing their own actions to fit in with the vocabulary from the story.
I wish I could say I liked this book, but I rarely read it to my daughters because it is so complicated. It does not flow well at all compared to Brown Bear, Brown Bear. The names of the animals are very complicated so I think it is hard for my language-challenged daughters to follow. Also, the end is kind of preachy.
This is Gus's favorite book in the world. I've grown to truly hate it.
Basic Plot: Animals in the wild.This book was identical in structure to Polar Bear, Polar Bear, What Do You Hear?, also by Bill Martin Jr. and Eric Carle. Carle's colorful, distinct artwork accompanies a simple, repetitive question-response format that my little guy really loves. The only trick was getting him to say "see" instead of "hear" like he did in the other book. As before also, I wasn't terribly into it, but he was, and that's the important thing with these stories. To see him get involved with the reading, I'd happily read a dozen of these.
While I don't think this book is as good as its predecessor I still think this book would be loved by children.
It's use of repetition will have kids reading along and acting out the animals from the pages.
The illustrations are quite beautiful and done in a style that children will find appealing.
I'd use this in a read aloud for kindergarteners or first graders.
The use of animals will engage the students and could be a perfect opportunity to have students get up and act out the animals.
Children learn about ten of the world's endangered animals and the animals is portrayed in eye catching collages and the book ends with a child sleeping dreaming that one day all animals will be wild and free. The children will chant the rhythmic words; make the sounds the animals make and role play the animals. Bill Martin Jr. and Eric Carle are brilliant in children's education and children's illustrations and this is a great book for children in KS1 and can be used in a creative way within the curriculum e.g. cross curricular with Geography, PSHE, RE.
This book is similar to  Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?, but a copy is never as good as the original. The writing doesn't roll off the tongue, but it's nice to see that some obscure/specific (for kids) animals are mentioned. For example: macaroni penguin (as opposed to just penguin) and whooping crane. My husband HATES this book and refuses to read it to our daughter. She seems to be okay with hearing it, though. I don't care one way or another.
This book is very much like "Brown Brown Bear What Do You See?". I liked the repetition which is easy for children to follow. I also liked the introduction of animals that are not very common. The only thing I didn't enjoy was the story line because it is very close to the original. The illustrations were awesome too. Children usually like Eric Carle's creations, so I'll recommend one be in each classroom of young children as well as home.
We've been reading this book every single night for the past year. It's the first book that my daughter has memorized enough to read to us! It has helped tremendously with learning about animals that have longer names. Instead of just monkey, she now knows that there are different types of monkeys. We love explaining the different habitats of each animal. This book has been lots of fun to read together and has helped us learn our colors and learn about new animals.
A wonderful read from my childhood, one I’d certainly suggest for other youngsters. Whilst it is not my all-time favourite childhood read I can still recall all the details of this one meaning it certainly left a lasting impression upon my young mind. And isn’t that what we want with children’s books, for them to leave a positive lasting impression?
My 18 month old likes this book even though I feel like it is Eric Carle selling out. Of course, endangered species are a great clause. But the original Brown Bear had such a rhythmical feel to it and this is tough. "Macaroni Pengiun, Macaroni Penguin What Do You Hear?" .... I mean, come on.
My five year old son and I picked this book out as we had read a lot of Eric Carle books for his schoolwork.
While I enjoyed the fact that this reads like Brown Bear, Brown Bear (making it easy for my three year old to 'read'), I did not really like the inclusion of some odd animal choices - like a black panther.
It would be a leopard.
Panthera is the genus for the big cat family of leopards, lions, tigers, and jaguars.
Look, I'll be honest, I don't understand the appeal of Panda Bear, Panda Bear, What Do You See?.
But the reality is, kids LOVE this book.
I finally conceded and read it during storytime today and got a huge response.
The trick will be pretending I'm enjoying it when I'm reading it (which is usually a prerequisite for storytime -- if the reader doesn't like the book, it's a no-go -- but this is so beloved, I guess there's an exception here).
I read it to my baby/toddler group today, but know it would be just as popular with preschoolers and even a little older.
Eric Carle and Bill Martin Jr. are the perfect pair.
This is the third book written in the what do you see model and is just as good as the others.
A panda spies a bald eagle who spies a water buffalo who spies a spider monkey who spies another animal all the way to a sleeping child dreaming about these animals all wild and free.This is a good book for introducing rhyme to children.It is also a good book to introduce the issue of endangered animals as each animal in the book is on the endangered list.It is also a good book for talking about animals and where they live.
I enjoyed how this book introduces new animals to the reader.
However, I did not like the flow and order of which animals came next in the sequences.
The book didn't seem to have a rhyme or reason to what animal came next.
As a kid I loved Eric Carle and still do to this day and recognize the similar illustrations to his other books.
I liked that this book put all the animals on one page for the reader to review at the end.
It seemed like a very easy read but mentions very interesting animals that are uncommon to children.
In much the same fashion that Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See includes animals, this one also includes fun animals. This book does an amazing job of using verbs that also describe how the wild animals move. While the sister book uses different colors to describe the animals, these wild animals included in this book are fairly true to nature. I liked this book both for it's repetition and illustrations. Bill Martin Jr and Eric Carle make a great team for young readers.
Genre: poetryGrades:Early primaryThis is an okay book it has the same simple story line of all the other what do you see? books. The artistic style that Bill Martin Jr. is so unique that I can tell just by the cover it is his book. I think that when it comes to books like this they are best read to a class while having them do motions for the animals. I recommend this book.
This was a fun read! This would be fun for younger grade levels. The book uses repetition and rhyming so even if kids do not know how to read, they could still participate. It is also a good tool for teaching the students about animals and what they look like.
This is a wonderfully written and illustrated simple rhyming storybook. Each page asks the animal 'what do you see' and they see the next animal in the story. Any age child can enjoy the text and illustrations of this story.
Better use of verbs than  Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?.
Other than Eric Carle's beautiful illustrations, I see nothing of note here. The animals are difficult ones for a child to differentiate from another of their genus. There's also no color learning in this one.
I LOVE this. This is the same idea as "Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What do you see?", but it's all endangered species. I love the art, the descriptors for each animal, and then the sleeping child at the end. I don't know - something about this book makes me feel good inside.
Olivia liked that there was some animals that she had seen at the zoo.
A good children book with different animals than the usuals.My kid loved the macaroni penguin.
This is a poor follow up to Brown Bear. It's just doesn't flow like children's books tend to. There are other books of his I would rather read first over this one.
Great for beginning readers. I love the illustrations and how it goes back over the animals at the end
My favorite part of this book is the world's weirdest looking "dreaming child" that appears to be some sort of moon/child hybrid.
6/25/17 Read with Julia
