https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165526.The_Red_Sea_Sharks
The narrative follows the young reporter Tintin, his dog Snowy, and his friend Captain Haddock as they travel to the (fictional) Middle Eastern kingdom of Khemed with the intention of aiding the Emir Ben Kalish Ezab in regaining control after a coup d'état by his enemies, who are financed by slave traders.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه دسامبر سال 1978 میلادیعنوان: کوسه های دریای سرخ؛ نویسنده: هرژه، مترجم: اسمردیس؛ تهران، ونوس، 1357؛ در 62 صکوسه‌های دریای سرخ نوزدهمین کتاب از مجموعه کتابهای کامیک ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو است.
هرژه در این کتاب برای نخستین بار با جمع بسیاری از شخصیتهای فرعی ماجراهای پیشین تن‌ تن؛ در این داستان کوسه‌ های دریای سرخ، تغییری بنیادی در شکل اصلی داستان‌ها بنا نهاد، و تلویحاً اعلام کرد که علاقه‌ ای به معرفی و خلق شخصیتهای تازه در داستان‌های بعدی تن‌ تن ندارد.
In this adventure, Captain Haddock reveals his great human nature by liberating with Tintin poor people that were being smuggled to work as slaves... In the book it is said "how can this happen at this time and age?" Yet, only weeks ago, how many ships were abandoned in the Mediterranean, filled with families and people that were merely trying to find a better life? We pretend there are no slaves today, when in fact their name is often "immigrants"!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 20 January 2015.
کتابی که در پنج سال اخیر به طور دقیق صد و نه بار توسط من خوانده شده :)با این حال هنوز هم جذابیت خاصی داره وقتی میخونمش :)
হেসে খেলে চারখানা তারা বসিয়ে দেয়া যেত যদি না আরজে লোকটা কৃষণাঙগদের বুদধিমান মানুষ মনে করতেন। তবু এই বইটাতে আগের গুলোর চেয়ে উননতি হয়েছে, আগে কৃষণাঙগদের অনয কোনো পরজাতি ভাবতেন এবং এই বইয়ে এসে মানুষ মনে করছেন তবে বুদধিহীন। আবার খানিকটা দোষ আবার কাটা গেছে যখন পুরো কাহিনীটাই অবৈধ দাস বযবসার (ততদিনে জাতিসংঘ দাসপরসাকে অবৈধ ঘোষনা করবার পর বছর দশেক পেরিয়ে গেছে) বিরুদধে দাঁড় করানো হয়েছে। তবুও কৃষণাঙগদের ছবিগুলোতে আরজের রেসিজম পরকাশ পায় এবং সেই ছবি দেখে একজন রেসিসটের জনয খারাপ অনুভুতি হয়।
হেসে খেলে চারখানা তারা বসিয়ে দেয়া যেত যদি না আর্জে লোকটা কৃষ্ণাঙ্গদের বুদ্ধিমান মানুষ মনে করতেন। তবু এই বইটাতে আগের গুলোর চেয়ে উন্নতি হয়েছে, আগে কৃষ্ণাঙ্গদের অন্য কোনো প্রজাতি ভাবতেন এবং এই বইয়ে এসে মানুষ মনে করছেন তবে বুদ্ধিহীন। আবার খানিকটা দোষ আবার কাটা গেছে যখন পুরো কাহিনীটাই অবৈধ দাস ব্যবসার (ততদিনে জাতিসংঘ দাসপ্রসাকে অবৈধ ঘোষনা করবার পর বছর দশেক পেরিয়ে গেছে) বিরুদ্ধে দাঁড় করানো হয়েছে। তবুও কৃষ্ণাঙ্গদের ছবিগুলোতে আর্জের রেসিজম প্রকাশ পায় এবং সেই ছবি দেখে একজন রেসিস্টের জন্য খারাপ অনুভুতি হয়।
Tintin returns to the Middle East25 February 2012 Once again I simply underestimated Herge's ability to be able to exceed the benchmark that he set with his previous comic, and while the Red Sea Sharks, in the way of comedy, is probably nowhere near as farsical as the Calculus Affair, this comic still manages to raise the bar. An interesting note is that at this stage it appears that Herge is beginning to slow down on the production of comics that had pretty much been a mainstay for the previous
Tintin returns to the Middle East25 February 2012	Once again I simply underestimated Herge's ability to be able to exceed the benchmark that he set with his previous comic, and while the Red Sea Sharks, in the way of comedy, is probably nowhere near as farsical as the Calculus Affair, this comic still manages to raise the bar.
However, these are another series that I will consider a little down the track, and may be ones that I would also like to read (once again being a mainstay of my childhood) but in some ways, while not wanting to underrate Asterix, I feel that they do not come close to Herge's brilliance.
#62 for 2018Genre: Adventure Comic
Not the greatest Tintin, but I always had a thing for Skut.
It was the first time for me to read a comic book in English... with a BIG help from my english-indonesian dictionary. I borrowed the book from my brother.
2,5*
Something smells fishy in the world of Hergé’s Tintin, and I think it has something to do with The Red Sea Sharks.I don’t know about all of you, but I always find it fascinating to reel back the clock to a time when airplane disasters weren’t an idle matter for a satirical comic strip and the representation of foreign, less-developed cultures could be reduced to heinous stereotypes.
Certainly not ethical, but deeply fascinating.This time around we have Tintin and the lovably vexed Captain Haddock encountering every significant face from their previous adventures in a round robin of chance encounters that weave themselves together into a lukewarm narrative about slavery.
This is the first Tintin in which it becomes apparent that Hergé is trying to re-introduce as much of his old characters as he can.
This didn't convince me too much; it seems a bit too improbable that they would all know each other independent of Tintin.That being said, Haddock is as funny as ever, and the plot twist is quite surprising (to me).
It makes me take not of the fact that we live in a different world now, since this topic isn't the talk of the town anymore.
Abdullah'a ben bile gıcık oldum, o nasıl yaramaz bir çocuk yahu :)
Fun plot as usual. But the racist depictions of Black people are cringeworthy. The Black characters' eagerness to serve bothered me just as much as the drawings, if not more. People keep saying it's better than Hergé's previous books, but there shouldn't have been any of these elements in a book first published in the 1950s, especially after the mass criticism.
Another action- and joke-packed adventure, which only slightly veers into pantomime due to the number of recurring characters from previous Tintin adventures.
I was in heaven.The very first Tintin title I owned was "The Red Sea Sharks," which is why it remains dear to my heart.
By this time Herge was reaching his peak, and almost everything about the book is perfect (though, from today's perspective, one might argue that there are some racial portraits -- both in the writing and the art -- that might not be very PC).For some reason Tintin has never enjoyed the popularity in North America (outside of the province of Quebec), that he has acquired elsewhere in the world.
This one takes us to familiar places and brings back familiar faces.
The story isn't as interesting as some of the earlier ones, also because, if you've read the others, you find this a little repetitive.
Tintin, Snowy and the Captain are back in Khemed and you have the usual betrayal, smuggling, rat-tat-tat etc.
But it's nice to see Haddock back as Captain he even gives us the original “I am captain now”)!
There are also new elements introduced which save the story to a great extent.
The best parts of this story, however, are still the physical comedy involving Captain Haddock, Calculus and the Thomsons.
Ini niy seri Tintin yang paling gw suka!! Lucu bangeettt dan hampir semua tokohnya (Selain Tintin dan Snowy) ada. Ada Kapten Haddock, Bianca Castafiore, trus mafia yang idungnya gede (kalo ga salah namanya Rastapopoulus). Cuma yang gw lupa, Detektif Thomson & Thompson ama Prof. Calculus ada juga tao ga...Trus...umpatan2 khas Kapten Haddock juga bertebaran di sini. kaya "Sejuta topan badai!Babon bulukan!Kutu busuk!,dll."Seru..seru...;)
Wow look what TintIn has gotten himself into now...In the middle of the Red Sea on a tiny little raft salvaged from their boat that was blown to pieces by aircraft and then torpedoed and now he has landed himself right in the middle of a war.
this is where i learned about Estonia, where Piotr Skut the eyepatched accidental ally of the Captain is from), and 25 years later met someone from this country (it wasn't a country then).. in (where else) New York City... kewl!
5 estrellas a todos los de Tintin, en homenaje a mi infancia.(Me gustaba el nombre de este título en español: "Stock de Coque". Y el original francés: "Coke en Stock". En inglés es malísimo).
Tintin is up against previous villains as Herge confronts the problem of modern-day slavery and arms trafficking. The artwork is again at par with other Tintin books and the comedy remains biting.
Yang paling epik dari petualangan ini selain pembebasan calon budak, yaah..... Umpatan - (umpatan) legendaris Haddock ( apalagi klo bukan itu? >.
It was completely unlike all the other Tintin comics and had several elements that make up an intersting cover.
The stark contrast between the black cover most of the image and the blue sea with the characters on a raft in the center.
What also makes it intriguing is that the circle in the center with the black on the outside is exactly like a telescope from seamen out at sea which adds to the mystery of the comic.
Like the Calculus affair, the book was created with the help of a team of artists working at the Herge Studios.
The book has a record in this regard.Another subject in the story of the Red Sea Sharks is the discussion of the trade of African slaves, which Herge described in detail in this story and is one of the main themes of the Red Sea Shark.
However, in the 1960s, he was accused of racism for many times because of the way Africans portrayed in his book.
Herge, who was very angry because of these accusations, changed the book for the next print.
This is a pretty great volume, with a lot of what makes the good Tintin books be good: Good pacing, great adventure, good mix between action moments and plot.
Not only that, many of the characters from previous book make an appearance, from cameos to being central to the story.One small return from the previous books I kinda wish didn't return is the racism.
Even if it reflects something from it's time, it's kinda grating today.
A good adventure, and the plot points it left open have potential to lead to something great.
I really enjoyed reading this one.
Quite a number of returning characters feature or at least cameo in this book which makes the overall Tintin world feel a bit more alive.
Somewhat amusing at one point to read Haddock commenting on the number of years since we last me a character, and yet no one has really aged in the meantime :) I also appreciate a couple of scenes cutting back to what is happening at home, which add a good amount of levity to it all.
Plot is an interesting one, and highlights I think how some quite evil trades are still unfortunately carrying on, even today.
Part 19 of my big re-read of the whole Tintin-canon after decades ...I had not read this one before and was pleasantly surprised. It appears a bit dated but put into context when it was written (1956-58) any criticism along those lines would be unfair.Verdict: Among the better Tintins. The benefits of working with a team at Hergé studio show from this book onwards.
Naturellement ça lui rend un peu fâché, mais il s’inquiète davantage du sort de Tintin.Même si l’amitié de Tintin et Haddock dans cette bande dessinée est vraiment mignonne et il y a beaucoup de situations drôles, il y a à la fois un aspect qui est problématique : la représentation des Soudanais et Sénégalais.
En tout cas, je le trouve très problématique et je pense qu’il est important d’être sensible en ce qui concerne la représentation des autres nationalités.En résumé, l’histoire de cette bande de Tintin présente une aventure passionnante, en figurant beaucoup de scènes mignonnes et drôles avec Tintin et capitaine Haddock (qui sont le cœur d’histoire, à mon avis).
A heck of a lot more text than I remembered there being. But I guess it’s a fun-ish story about breaking up a slave ring? A little culturally inappropriate for today’s audiences but nothing abnormal for the era.
The Captain's the hero. Blistering barnacles. :)
