https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680351.Root_Cellaring
If you have ever wondered how Ma in "Little House in the Big Woods" kept all her produce and harvest bounty so that Laura had good things to eat in January and never developed scurvy, this book answers all your questions.
Right?Quite simply, this is one of the best organized, informative, well written gardening reference books I have ever read.
Be warned: Reading it makes one consider (however fleetingly) living off the land in some remote place and attempting to become self sufficient.
Merely reading it once will not be enough for the farmer at heart.
Has almost as much about how to plan, grow, and harvest food for root cellaring as it does about making a root cellar (makes sense, of course). Pretty awesome. I like that it has very detailed fancy options, but also descriptions of people doing things much more simply. And that there are plenty of options that work if you're not out in the country. Looking forward to trying some of this ourselves next season!
A good book for building a root cellar. Includes information on what temperate and condition to keep numerous vegetables as well as many options for creating space both inside the house and out to keep those vegetable through the winter. There are excellent suggestions on where and how to build a storage facility to leave our home grown or locally grown produce in good shape for eating right through until spring.
Very comprehensive book on root cellaring--truly the bible it was claimed to be. It made me mourn the dirt-floored section in our basement that we covered over with cement. Why? Oh why? How will we ever achieve 90-95% humidity now. Wail.
Great information: the why and the how with plenty of details to actually get started.
As someone who's very interested in being more self sufficient and independent from the current mass produced food system we have, it's very comforting to know there are these well preserved methods, which have been thoroughly tried and tested and proven to work.
I am enjoying learning about all the old traditions our grand parents and great grandparents used in a life before convenience foods and large supermarkets existed.
Becoming more self reliant on your own two hands and having a stock pile of produce you yourself grew is true food security.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who would like to learn more about natural ways to store food.
The book seems to be a rather complete beginner's guide to storing fruits and vegetables. If you have the time to waste.
Very clear and concisely written.. A very practical book on how to keep your hard work from "spoiling".
A must have book if preserving food is a passion.
Pretty authoritative book on building and using a root cellar. There's enough detail in here that you will probably want to consult it as a reference (which means I should probably buy a copy).
Any book that shows something as innovative as driving a truck into a hole in a hillside for use as a root cellar is a-ok with me.
This book completely revolutionized the way I see my own home!The Bubels opened my eyes to the possibilities we ALL have at our fingertips for storing our food.
Even if you don't grow your own food it's nice to know how to properly store the food you buy so you waste less and eat more!This book is for anyone who is looking to spend a little less at the grocery store, to be and feel a little more self-sufficient, to walk a little lighter on this Earth.
Bountiful harvest and well stocked food reserves are the most fulfilling way to feel truly wealthy in today's convenience driven society.
Our children should enter adulthood with basic knowledge of how to store food over winter without the cooperation of a nuclear power plant a hundred miles away.
every animal in the forest is taught this skill; we owe our children no less.This is basic knowledge that all our children should not only learn but experience.
When we loosed these basic skills of thanking care of our selves we become dependent on someone else and no longer have free will.Not only will this book if practiced will make our youth better prepared to be free but it will help save the world.
Thanks for helping me and my family.
"This is a truly comprehensive reference on root cellaring: selection of storage vegetables, planting strategies, storage techniques, construction information on various styles of root cellars, descriptions of actual root cellars, and recipes to use with storage vegetables.
The book is well-organized and thorough, with good illustrations and photos, as well as nice reference tables.
I felt the descriptions of actual root cellars dragged and wasn't excited by many of the recipes they suggested (in particular use of nonseasonable ingredients that can't be stored in a root cellar) but I think this is probably the best root cellar bible out there.
I plan to buy this one for myself."
I'm really impressed with how thorough, yet concise this book it.
The chapters are short and divided in a way that you can skip to exactly the topic you need without missing out.
I was afraid there wasn't going to be much usable information for an apartment renting city dweller like myself, but I was wrong.
The author's take into account multiple living situations for most of the information they give and even include a section for planning your garden (community, porch, or backyard) with an eye to storing over the winter.
Really useful book and it has inspired me to get serious with the little community garden plot I rent.
One of my other hobbies is gardening. My wife and I have been becoming more self sufficient each year. We can some. We freeze much. We enjoy fresh fruits and vegetables. My great grandmother had a root cellar and I wondered if it might be right for me. This book gives you an in-depth look at what to grow, how to store it, and how to cook it. The book is delightful and I recommend it to anyone interested in food preservation.
Three stars as i think the book too quickly makes the assumption that there is a time where the ground is frozen in all areas. Living near the SF bay it just doesn't get that cold here. Even still there were lessons to be learned about how/where to store goodies. There are inventive ideas like under existing porches and in closets along side the giant built structures or full basement conversions. The explanations were extremely detailed with great diagrams and easy to understand.
An excellent resource for anyone looking for ways to preserve fresh fruit and vegetables. Some are simple, some require construction... it's all a matter of what you need and are able to do. Cellaring requires little to no energy use, and virtually anyone can find suitable space and materials.I can't imagine there is a better book out there on this subject.
Using this book, I built a wonderful and functional root cellar in an unheated basement room. This winter, it is keeping a temperature of around 38 degrees. It's like having a walk-in fridge. It is filled with veggies from the summer garden, plus my canning. It cost me about $35 in insulation and materials. A gem.
Actually only read parts of this, mostly because I'm pretty sure that there is no way I'm going to construct a root cellar in our backyard. But I think I'm reasonably reassured that it might be possible to store winter onions in our sunroom, so it's not be a complete waste. Might be worth having around for future reference, for a different location or a harder time, perhaps.
This book gives a lot of great information not just on root cellaring! It makes root cellaring approachable for anyone, even if you don't have and actual "root cellar." I especially enjoyed the first half of this book that gives information on when to start different vegetables and different ways for storing them. Recommended!
Wouldn't it be great to have your own fresh veges all winter long that you grew yourself! I thinks so but I was a little disappointed that it is so complicated. Different vegetables need to be stored at different temperatures etc. There are lots of ways to do it though. At least you can easily store winter squash in your basement at a warmer temperature and they will last nicely.
I loved this book, and thought it was very comprehensive and easy-to-read. Of course, this comes from the perspective of someone who knew absolutely nothing about root cellaring before I read the book. There are black and white photos and diagrams that show you how to build a root cellar, but you may have to do some supplemental research.
Okay, call me fruity if you like (pun intended!) but I want to do this. The appeal to be completely self-sufficient is like a siren's song to me.Good thing I've stuck wax in my ears and tied myself to a mast...(3 stars for the boredom factor, but wow what a lot of ideas it gave me!)
Great resource for planning your own root cellar. A little boring to read if you're not yet to the stage when you'll be building one soon, but full of exact plans, first-hand stories, and recipes. I was particularly impressed by a root cellar made by burying most of a large truck.
Great book for anyone who cooks with produce a lot. Even for those of us with no hope of digging a hole in the ground, it gives appropriate storage techniques that can be used by anyone who has ever had a piece of fruit or a veggie go bad before it was eaten.
This book has some really neat ideas for ways to make root cellars or earth-sheltered food storage. I've got two ideas already sketched out after reading this book. Definitely plan to keep a copy of the book around for reference and sharing.
We grow, forage and store most of our food, and this book is one of our most beloved and well used references. An essential, practical and well explained guide to food storage in bulk using time-tested methods not dependent upon the teat of the power company.
being something of a reference book, i can't truly say i've "read" it. i will use this book, however, if we ever have a surplus that we're not canning. the authors are passionate about root cellars and therefore, it's actually pretty interesting.
I didn't get a chance to read the whole thing before it was due back at the library, but it was very interesting to skim through it and get some ideas. It definitely got my wheels turning...
