https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5131.The_Perennial_Philosophy
This book redefined the way I look at religion.
It speaks of the philosophy which connects all religions, and should be used as a way of relating to one another.I found this particular passage quite engaging:"The invention of the steam engine produced a revolution, not merely in industrial techniques, but also much more significantly in philosophy.
External circumstances came to be regarded as more important that states of mind about external circumstances, and the end of human life was held to be action, with contemplation as a means to that end.
Dear Aldous Huxley, I know that you where pronounced dead a long time ago, but because of this book, you are a living presence in my life today.  Thank you, Bryon.
For instance:"Samsara and Nirvana, time and eternity"; "Nirvana and Samsara are one"; for instance: "the path of spirituality is a knife-edge between abysses"; for instance: "to be diabolic on the grand scale, one must, like Milton's Satan, exhibit in a high degree all the moral virtues, except only charity and wisdom."Huxley also does a pretty good job of explaining why mysticism is not equivalent to sticking one's head in the sand, and why its denial of self-separateness is not the same as the dangerous forms of collectivism and indifference to difference.
Everyone should read this book. It is one of the best inspirational, inquisitive philosophy texts I have ever read.
I first read this book when I was on a Huxley kick when I was a teenager.
Needless to say, The Doors of Perception was more my speed then than The Perennial Philosophy.I recently read Mike Scott's autobiography, Adventures of a Waterboy, and discovered that this book meant a lot to him and his spiritual life.
It's precepts are essentially a reiteration of the beliefs that I've developed on my own through reading the writers whom Huxley surveys.
But the book was a VERY necessary read for me at this point in my life.
This is an interesting book but the style and the language are pretty difficult (at least for me).
I think that who is into philosophy will have less problems than me to understand the language.It doesn't talk about the dogma of the main religions (Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Taoism), but about the philosophy and the spiritual side that are very similar if not the same.
This is what I like the most: to see the points in common of religions, and not the differences.
I found them all very inspiring.I recommend this book to who is interested in religions and their philosophical side, but be aware that it isn't a fast or easy read.
He shows in this book how all of the ancient traditions implemented these truths...or didn't.
He is clearly very erudite and the book is full of quotes from early "saints", from both the East and the West.While much of the material is quite interesting I wondered if he didn't write the book simply to show how Christianity has 'gone wrong'.
His anti-Christian bias is pretty obvious.This book is NOT a light read and you should only pursue it if you are really interested in this topic.
Coming back almost 20 years later this book still holds it's allure.This is not an easy book to digest and Huxley did an amazing job presenting such a succinct overview of the Perennial Philosophy drawing from so many resources, it's just plain awe-inspiring.
From Zen to Christianity, Buddhism to Islam, Christ to Rummi, and all religions and philosophies in between, Huxley provides an great introduction to the underlying stream of commonality linking us all together in the greater whole of the universe.
This book is not a light read by any means and it forces one to take a long hard look at life.
Huxley examines a whole host of religions, from Buddhism to Catholicism and everything in between, explaining what the enduring philosophy of each is and what similarities they have to one another. In the end he makes the brilliant point that no matter how different each religion may be, they are, at their core, seeking the exact same thing. Anyone remotely interested in religion should read this. Highly recommend!
Ve bu inançları bir araya getirip aralarında karşılaştırıp evrensel inancın bütünlükçü ilkesini kavramamızı ümit ediyor.
Alanlarında aydınlığa ulaşmış bilge kimselerin(Mevlana, Gazali, buddha, eckhart, aristoteles vb.) eserlerinden alıntılar ile Kadim Felsefe'nin teorisini açıklıyor.
Felsefenin metafizik inançlar ile doğrudan ve dolaylı olarak bağlantılı akımlarına da ışık tutuyor ve böylelikle inançların felsefi olarak irdelenmesi gerektiğini savunuyor.
Hatta bazı akımların mantıksız savlarını kadim felsefenin altdalları ile karşılaştırıp eleştiriyor.
Aslında Kadim Felsefe insan yaşamının incelikli bir detayını içeriyor.
Kitabın son bölümünde ise Aldous Huxley'in nefis bir malaesi de biz okuyuculara göz kırpıyor.
Kaynakça kısmında ise kitap ile pekiştirebileceğiniz zengin bir içerik bekliyor...
ألدوس هكسلي الكاتب الانجليزي الشهير في كتابه المهم بيناقش ماهية الديانة الأزلية أو الفكرة المشتركة بين كل الأديان وكل الفلسفات الدينية وهي الماهية الصوفية، بينهيه باقتباس من الغزالي بيتكلم فيه عن ان في كل عصر بينشط فيه التيار الفلسفي (رمز العقلانية في البحث الميتافيزيقي)، بينشط أيضا التيار الصوفي، الي دوره بيكون المحافظة على العالم.
بمعنى انه لا يستقيم العالم بالعقلانية وحدها لأنها محدودة فلن تقدم أي إجابة ميتافيزيقية كافية، وهذا ما يفتح الباب دائما أمام الصوفية الروحانية، سواء كانت حدسية أو نفسية تخضع للمشاعر، عشان تملأ الفراغ بين العقل والسؤال.
وهذا الكتاب ما هو الا تجميع لاقتباسات وتعليقات لمناقشة الأفكار الصوفية المشتركة بين الهندوسية والبوذية والمسيحية والإسلام، كمحاولة لإحياء الصوفية الروحانية في عصره.
Huxley gets to the root of The Thing by examining religious texts from around the world. He finds out what they have in common to get to the parts that are not human projection, idolatry, and bullshit. It's all around us and we are part of It.
Çevirinin ve redaksiyonun ne denlj önemli olduğunu net olarak anlayabilmek açısından ornek mahiyetinde zira bazı kısımlarını anlayabilmek için kıvrım kıvrım kıvranmaniz gerekebilir :)
So, for example if I went to events organised by the Left I kept feeling I had been co-opted by some church of people who believed they were the chosen ones, the 'good people' who would change the world, and we are in a war with the 'bad' tory people.My friend said that he didn't think this is the ultimate truth of most religions, and told me to read this book.
I was interested in the ideas I mention above about the nature of good and evil, heaven and hell.
"Puffing Billy has now turned into a four-motored bomber loaded with white phosphorus and high explosives, and the free press is everywhere a servant of its advertisers, of a pressure group, or of the government.
And yet, for some inexplicable reason, the travellers (now far from gay) still hold fast to the religion of Inevitable Progress -- which is, in the last analysis, the hope and faith (in the teeth of all human experience) that one can get something for nothing.
The automatic machine is fool-proof; just because it is fool-proof it is also grace-proof." (171)"Original ignorance is the same thing as original sin." (250)
This book is a gem, a must read, for people with even the slightest interest in the esoteric dimension of religions, any religion.
It is a lucid presentation of exalting and inspiring quotes from mystics and saints throughout history.
I believe it is the most comprehensive book on the subject of  Sophia Perennis  from the point of view of its practitioners.
Rumi, Meister Eckhart, Augustine, Shankara, etc.
are among the many others whose memorable words about the Ground of Being are presented in this book.
It is one of the rare books that I can read many many time.
This book explain the ways in which ALL the world's religions, taken at their core, express the "Perennial Philosophy". He quotes at length from Catholic saints, Martin Luther, the Vedantas, the Tao te Ching, George Fox, the Upanishads, the writings of many Buddhists, and so on. I know I've left some out; I'm not looking at the book as i write, and it has been probably 10 years since I read it last.Nonetheless, a major formative book for my life, which I discovered when I was 13 or 14 and have been rereading ever since.
The Perennial Philosophy Forget self to discover the Self The book A Short History of Nearly Everything, by Bill Bryson, is essentially a history of science book. This book is a history of philosophy and summary of major religion, organized into different points. In both, I ran out of room to review. Link to complete review at the end. The main idea is this – all religions are essentially saying the same 27 things and here’s what they are. I found it very neat to jump from a Sufi mystic to a Cat
It cannot therefore be denoted by words which, like “being” in the ordinary sense, signify a category of things…Therefore it cannot be defined by word or idea; as the Scripture says, it is the One “before whom words recoil.” –Shankara 24Point 3 – Personality, Sanctity, Divine Incarnation – personality is a distraction, selfhood is a better concept (less egotistical), you are sacred because you are the same as God (only saints recognize this).QuotesInsofar as they are saints, insofar as they possess the unitive knowledge that makes them “perfect as their Father which in heaven is perfect,” they are all astonishingly alike.
A phenomenal and profound philosophical study, Aldous Huxley seamlessly integrates the thoughts of philosophers, mystics and sages from Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism and Islam into a marvelously thought-provoking and coherent book.
Wonderfully written, Huxley centers his discussion on man's ultimate end: to know the unitive nature of the Divine.
Everything centers around what Huxley views as man's ultimate end, and the discussion of a myriad of spiritual issues centers around what Huxley views as man's unfortunate tendency to confuse means with ends, as people continually fall into the idolatry of means.
If you enjoy the opportunity to better understand eastern and western religious traditions as related through philosophical doctrine and their spiritual traditions this is an outstanding place to start.
Huxley takes the actual words and quotes from great teachers, saints, andsages from the eastern and western traditions to educate the reader about the differences and similarities functionally by subject area from, self, silence, good and evil, eternity and time among others equally compelling to enlighten the reader.
He inserts some editorial comment that reflects his personal views, but generally this is an opportunity to come to your own conclusions as well as become more fluent in areas allowing for selected and deeper study.
There is a lot to chew over in this book, I think I am going to have to come back for another going over.Huxley presents his synopsis of spiritual systems, suggesting there are core principles common to all human spirituality, which are constantly refound and reinterpreted in each system.
This is essentially a digest of spiritual writers, it has lots of interesting and important ideas, and extensive quotes to help you get a handle on them.
Huxley himself seems to be blown away in enthusiasm and the confusion of trying to rebrand some of the non essential ideas attached to the vital philosophy.
I had no idea what "Perennial Philosophy" referred to when I checked out this book and began reading it.
When I learned in the first sentence that it referred to the "divine Reality", I had doubts that I would be able to endure it.
However, Huxley's overview of the spiritual proved very interesting in discussing the various aspects of man's pursuit of spiritual enlightenment.
Some of his comparisons of the Muslim and Christian efforts in that pursuit were so strikingly pertinant to current events, including the 2004 presidential election now underway.
This one was added to my reading list after reading Huxley's Brave New World.
Lest anyone doubt that one of the greatest philosophers of the modern age is Aldous Huxley I give you The Perennial Philosophy. Huxley boils all religious tradition into its basic universal truths. It is through this discovery that he finds what he is good in the best teachings and what is manipulative in its tenets.I am constantly amazed by the breadth of thought that Aldous Huxley explored during his lifetime and how relevant that five years today. I will probably be thinking about this volume for many years to come.
Anyone who is interested in comparative mysticism 'must' read this book. Aldous Huxley, although controversial, did a marvelous job of collecting quotations of mystics of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, and Islam, grouped by subject matter."The Perennial Philosophy" is one of the books in the primary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism" at http://suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf and one of the first that I had read on the topic.
Rational truth can be defined as ideas, definitions, facts, and concepts "about" reality. Mystical truth perhaps can be defined as a direct intuitive apprehension "of" reality. Huxley does a terrific job in using the mystics from the East and the West to help us to understand this most important kind of truth.
This is a very noteworthy book, but the author's style is such that I couldn't bear to continue reading it, on several tries; maybe in a few years I'll try yet again. Some writing styles are a total slog for one person, but fine or prefered for another.
I definitely need to read this again as it didn't click the first time through.
Indeed, this book is almost a perfect companion to Brave New World because it shows what Aldous Huxley actually DOES believe in (whereas Brave New World shows what he DOESN'T believe in i.e. consumerism, hedonism, etc)In this very philosophical work of comparative religion Aldous Huxley demonstrates his incredibly vast and original insights on Religion (drawing from sources all over the globe such as the biographies of famous Buddhist, Hindu, and Christian sages), Psychology, society, and philosophy.
I already believed in the essential oneness of the world's rich spiritual traditions, and have heard it expressed in various ways, but never with the brilliantly argued philosophical reasoning that Aldous demonstrates in this work.
However as Huxley writes this one Divine Reality cannot be directly and immediately apprehended except by those whom we generally give the name of 'saint' or 'prophet', 'sage' or 'enlightened one' and the only way is to study, reflect and comprehend their experience, works and writings.
"If one is not oneself a sage or saint, the best thing one can do, in the field of metaphysics, is to study the works of those who were, and who, because they had modified their merely human mode of being, were capable of a more than merely human kind and amount of knowledge" - writes Huxley in the introduction.
Another book that's really beyond my area of interests, and, I confess, philosophy is pretty much at the bottom of my list of subjects to explore.
On the other hand, this is a surprisingly intriguing overview of religious/philosophical works with excepts from some works I studied in Eastern Civilization (as opposed to the required Western Civ class) with Taoism, Buddhism, etc.
The book is organized by topic--Truth, Grace and Free Will, Good and Evil--and Huxley provides excerpts from these classics, connecting them with elucidating commentary.
A good, though rather academic, overview for those interested in the topic.
