https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26074181-the-crown
"I'm telling you, Eady, wars and treaties and even countries will all come and go. But your life is yours, singular and sacred, and you should be with the person who makes it feel that way every blessed second you live it." First, I would like to thank every person who has liked or commented on this review in the past year or so. This much of a response is unheard of for me. Almost every day, a few more people like it, or someone else actively advocates for Kile or Erik and sends up a prayer in
5/11/15things i would like in this book:- eadlyn to stop being spoiled & do something unselfish for her people- eadlyn to actually interact with her people on any level- a good old-fashioned, knee-slappin, heck-of-a-time ball- henri to find a cute maid to love- ahren come back & have character development- either erik or kile winning the selection- kile builds something cute to help eadlyn- josie to get seriously told off by eadlyn- something exciting with ean- aMERICA NOT TO DIE ???
I enjoyed the book, but OMG, I'm just not buying anything that happened at the end!
I love Maxon but in this book he was just plain weak!
I mean, I like the boy, he was one of my favorites and one of my top choices, I just don't feel like the romance was believable.
Suddenly they both were just like: OMG I LOVE YOU SO MUCH.
The things I liked?
And I also liked Eadlyn's choice, but I still feel it needed more romantic development.
EDIT: 13/01/2016 I hate how gorgeous the covers for this series are. I want to smush them to my face and declare my eternal love for them.
"The highly anticipated conclusion to the bestselling The Selection series."Me:
I don't understand, I thought it was just a trilogy... Why are there suddenly two more books added. Update : I have read The Heir and I must admit that I actually quite enjoyed it, so looking forward to this one.Update #2 : :)
I'm gonna put it bluntly out there -- I did not like The Heir. I consider it one of my greatest literary disappointments, even if it has a relatively high rating (2.5 stars). So my expectations of The Crown were along the lines of  'please be decent, please end quick and please be the last '. Most fortunately though, The Crown brought back the love I felt for Kiera Cass's novels made of syrupy romance and dreamy sighs. Taking this into consideration, this review will resemble half an omen to thi
Unlike in The Heir, I loved Eadlyn.
Each of them (and here I'm talking about the ever-wonderful Hale, Kile, Ean, Henri and Erik) became amazing in their own way and right.
Unlike in The Heir, I did not curse the decision to expand the series from the original trilogy.
Unlike in The Heir, there was so much more of the young Maxon and America we all know.
Like The Heir, don't expect this book to suddenly be a complex piece of literature, because surely it is not.
Unlike The Heir.
Unlike the Heir, The Crown was so much better.
❝Finding a prince might mean kissing a lot of frogs. Or kicking a lot of frogs out of your house. Falling might mean running headfirst into something you always wanted. Or dipping your toe into something you've been scared your whole life. Happily ever after could be waiting in a field a mile wide.❞  Rating: {★ ★ ★}This was an okay ending to Eadlyn's part of the story in The Selection series. I was never really a fan of The Heir or Eadlyn like I was with The Selection and America. The only rea
Instead of believing that everybody lived happily ever after once Maxon and America became king and queen and the caste system was eliminated, The Heir just sort of wipes that all away like happily ever after never even happened.The One was such a bittersweet ending to a fun trilogy and The Crown with its 278 pages wasn't going to top it at all.
The Heir and The Crown may not be up to par with Maxon and America's story, but I still found it bittersweet that The Selection is finally over for good.
but you might guess what happens in the end based on my rating]The Crown  continues as Eadlyn Schreave temporarily takes over Illea after the stressful things happened on the previous book.
Like, really frustrated that I almost throw the book across the room because I'm holding to my thoughts and it ended not the way I expected or wanted.
I know some of you rooted for (view spoiler)[ Erik/Eikko  (hide spoiler)] to win and I respect that.
I want an alternate ending where Eadlyn and Kile ship SAIL.
Everyone was telling her how great of a queen she'd be and I was there thinking, "Why would you guys happily trade Eadlyn in place of America and Maxon???".
Especially when EVERY SINGLE GUY SAYS IT LIKE TEN TIMES.Alright, let me just get it out.
When Hale told Eadlyn that he was in love with Ean I literally said "What the fuck?" while reading.
Whatever, on to Erik.I knew that Erik was going to be with Eadlyn in the end, like how obvious could it be?
But no, everyone was okay with it and didn't think twice.And then, it was just like "The end, that's it, that's the book".
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HORz_...This one was a good improvement on The Heir.
Eadlyn was a huge brat in the previous book, but she comes to some self realization in this book that makes her change her ways.
I liked that with The Heir and The Crown you truly never really know who Eadlyn is going to end up with.
With first three books of The Selection Series, you always kind of know who Maxon is going to choose, but these 2 books kept me guessing.
But overall, I did really enjoy it, but I think it was time for the series to be over.
This is going to go one of two ways.Way #1: I will love this book.
I will gush about this book.
I will want to have its children (not really) and pledge my soul to this book (a possibility).
Way #2: I will hate this book so much that I see red.
Gouging my eyes out after reading is a possibility (gouging occuring during reading in an [most likely successful] attempt to avoid continuing reading this book is also a possibility, BUT it will only happen if the book is really bad), but I may settle for minor hair tearing out and extreme ranting.We shall see.
The Crown is book five in The Selection series by Kiera Cass.
No matter the reason, I’m a fan, and I love the way Kiera Cass wrapped it all up.
Eadlyn has always known the love her parents shared but watching her father at her mother’s side shows her a depth she hadn’t realized.
She is developing feelings for some of these men but could it be love?
With all the responsibility Eadlyn was forced to take on, I wished she had more time with her gentlemen but in the end, I don’t know if that would have mattered.
La Corona es una novela totalmente a la altura del resto de la saga, con unos giros totalmente inesperados y que, sin duda, gustará a todxs lxs seguidorxs de La Selección.Lo cierto es que La heredera no fue del todo lo que esperaba y encontré bastantes fallos que me dejaron con un sabor agridulce.
Creo que si algo le faltaba a la saga eran giros más profundos e inesperados y que con esta novela Cass borda eso en lo que solía flojear.7La secuela de La Heredera y La Corona me ha gustado muchísimo porque aporta una perspectiva distinta a la de La Selección y se ven las cosas desde dentro más que desde fuera.
this book was a great reminder of how weak the story & characters got at the end of The Selection series and HOW MUCH BEAUTIFUL COVERS CAN DISAPPOINT ME.I genuinely liked the first part of Eadlyn's story in The Heir, but there really was no plot arc in this sequel.
The whole book read like watching a middle school play...
I feel nothing except regret for the past 2 hours I spent reading this mess.Nice things I have to say: middle schoolers would probably really enjoy this book (even the adults in it acted like tweens at times).
“Maybe it's not the first kisses that are supposed to be special. Maybe it's the last ones.” The Selection : ★★★The Elite : ★★★★The One : ★★★★★The Heir : ★The Crown : ★★Don't mind taking your time with this one. It won't be a review of me ranting about Eadlyn and how stubborn and foolish and rude and spoiled she is. Or was I guess...I'd like to start off by saying I hated The Heir. I'm sorry, but if you've read my review, you'll know why. If you've read The Heir and were disappointed with it, t
Instead of romance, we get boring dates, awkward ones as well, a boring plot, boring main characters and nothing in comparison to The Selection, The Elite and The One.I will admit, this story did have its improvements like the other ones did.
Her choice felt right and even though there is no other book coming up, I feel like in the minds of fans of this book can imagine the happy life they'll be living.As to the things that did upset me, even though it's really just one, I think making Eadlyn queen at a young age when both her parents are alive was stupid and ridiculous.
Even if the main genre is romance, I just hope the writing improves and it doesn't just focus on one thing.
Maybe it's the last ones.”I have finally finished The Selection series.
It was about time.A few years ago when I read the first book I loved the story.
I hate leaving a series unfished.2.
The plot is basically Eadlyn doubting herself, followed by someone telling her how strong she is.
Then she doubts herself and someone tells her how strong she is.
Which was no big deal, since that's what I was used to from the other books in the series.I'm glad I can take those books from my to-read list and never bother myself with them again.Find more of my books on Instagram
I want to stress that even this early on, I wasn’t planning on rating this book with 5 stars, which is odd for me because I’m an devoted fan of this series.
It’s true that the fourth book in the series was a bother to read because of Eadlyn, but I still admired her character.
I’ve read better self-published novels than this.This is a very, VERY harsh review, I know, but I loved the Selection series because of how emotional everything was and because I was able to sympathize with the characters.
:D--------------------------------------PRE-REVIEW April/16/2016You know I'm not going to put any spoiler, but I need to express how I'm feeling right now after know that Also 17 days until The Crown!!I'm fangirling now and it's only the title...
I can't wait to see the cover!
I think in this moment I'm suffer a heart attack because of that cover!
Only look: And I think I need to say that I really love the cover but it's not my favorite...
And please Kiera don't kill Maxon and America...
;-; Feb/20/16 75 Days until The Crown!!!
And look what Kiera post in her Instagram:
I will never understand why people feel the need to bash something they haven't even read. Irony... God willing, I will be in the same place a year or so from now. I am sure there will be plenty of people who detest my book. LOL!EDIT - 9/2/15The words above were strangely prophetic... I AM preparing to release my first novel and praying my skin is thick enough to deal with the inevitable bad reviews. Wish me the best...
WONDERFUL! What a spectacular ending....I don't know what to do with myself now !
La cantidad de sentimientos que logra producirme esta mujer con sus palabras, sus personajes y las situaciones que ellos viven es increíble y me deja deseando vivir en el palacio de Illéa junto con Maxon, America, Eadlyn y sus seleccionados.Si bien entiendo las razones por las que muchas personas odian un poco La Heredera y La Corona, para mí fueron libros preciosos (no tanto como los tres primeros, pero, oye, llegar a ese nivel es difícil, jajaja).
Casi puedo decir que me leí La Corona de un tirón, pues necesitaba saber cómo iba a sortear Eadlyn a la opinión pública, las trampas de Marid Illéa y los entresijos de su propio corazón.
By halfway through the author still had me guessing on who Eadlyn, our stupid useless heroine, would choose.
She had guys coming from far and wide just for her to "pick".
I just taught Eadlyn's story was pointless.
(view spoiler)[And it was so ridiculous in the end how she proposed to Henri but a minute before the wedding she changed her mind and after he had worked so hard for her to pick him, and he was not the least bit bothered.
What an understanding guy!!!
Totally unrealistic and pointless!!
(hide spoiler)]
I just.....I can't......And...Number 2: It's 10:30 in the morning and we all know for lazy teens like me, I need my beauty rest but I just couldn't lay my ass down in bed and do nothing, SO HERE I AM.Now, with my little update of my miserable life, here i go.Eadlyn was just this little, immature, ungrateful child.
I mean, she literally starts complaining in the book before this!!Besides this, the romance was just trash!
He's the one for me!!"*swoon*I DON"T EVEN KNOW HOW IT WORKED.
The obvious choice was (view spoiler)[ Kile  (hide spoiler)] in my opinion.
In fact, I felt a complete disconnect from all but two of the boys (her choice is not included in the two).
(view spoiler)[ There's something about childhood friends turning lovers that's just so appealing  (hide spoiler)] maybe it's predictable but it's the fairytale story that I was hoping to see unfold - watching them go from not caring much for the other to falling in love.
Besides the lack of romance, the entirety of the book felt rushed, even more so at the end.
This is just too much. The Selection was supposed to be a trilogy, yet there are five books in the series?Woman, let go of this series. Try writing something else - the cow has no more milk!Yep, that's right.
It was definitely predictable, but I think if Kiera Cass ended it any other way it wouldn't have worked, and I would have walked away feeling like all the time I put into reading this series was a waste.All of the books in the series are quick reads, but I found I got through The Crown much faster than the others.
Since this was the last book and it was so short, it felt rushed.I like who she ends up with but I wish we had more build up and a longer look at the relationships between all of the guys who were left in The Crown.
***4 "Happily Ever After" stars***  “Trust your gut. Trust your heart.”“I’m terrified of my heart.” I didn’t mean to say those words out loud, but there was something about him that made this room, and this moment, the only place I could ever admit to the truth.He leaned down by my ear and whispered, “There’s nothing there to fear.”  I'm a sucker for fairy tales...And i was almost obsessed with the first three parts of the series...America and Maxon were amazing and i will never forget their st
Eadlyn was America and Maxon's only daughter and she had nothing from the brightness of her parents...She was spoiled, she had a great opinion of herself and she was sooooo annoying...But damn, i needed to find out with whom she will end up...
In my heart, i wanted her to end up with one of two candidates....And to be honest while i started this book, i diminished them to one....And yep, i'm so happy because my wish came true after all!!!Nope, sorry guys, i can't tell you who he was!!!
If this book is about Eadlyn's twin brother I'm gonna die
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins UK Children's, and NetGalley.)  “There were things I was always sure of, and almost all of that has fallen apart in the last few weeks.”  This was a good end to the series, and Eadlyn really played her role well.Eadlyn continued to be a strong character in this book; she really stepped up, she put others first, and she really cared about what was good for everyone else rather than just for
The storyline in this was about Eadlyn stepping up following her mother’s illness, and taking on a role that she was young for, but capable of it seemed.
We also had the culmination of the Selection, but there wasn’t quite as much of the storyline devoted to this as I expected, and the book felt more about Eadlyn stepping up than about the romance.
The person who I expected her to be with by the end just didn’t happen, and I wasn’t 100% sure about the person she eventually chose.
