https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/440366.Adventures_of_Ideas
Suffice it to say, you should read about it more from someone other than me-- but do check it out if intrigued.It also becomes clear in this chapter that, to Whitehead, "occasions of experience" constitute the fundamental unit of existence.
We would be more honest if we talked about things in terms of "becoming." The notions centered around "occasions of experience" is where you begin to recognize Whitehead's philosophy of process.
I have a great interest in this topic, as music that incorporates "noise" -- in essence, treating discord as a form of beauty -- never fails to amaze me when it conjures emotions you'd usually associate with a pretty melody.
He I would guess believes in a very liberal form of Christianity.
Like most decent and humane Christians he honestly tries to engage with modern science and the enlightenment.
At the same time being an optimistic Christian I sense that he wishes for some divine purpose to the Universe an impulse almost universal to people.
However ultimately as much as I admire his decency and the optimism of his metaphysic the world does not have an ultimate purpose outside ones we create and as much as I would like there to be a cosmic plan or rationale their doesn't appear to be one.
I enjoyed Whitehead's description of philosophy at the end of Chapter 6.
Had I flipped ahead (or paid closer attention to the table to contents), I might've understood the significance of his seemingly senseless history of human civilization and his apologia for Hume and Plato.
Oh, and if I'd had the time, I would've went back and counted all the places where he reminds his virgin philosopher that we owe so much to Plato's dialogues...
especially the _Timaeus_, which Whitehead most certainly had read at least four dozen times.
A good read but by no means an indispensable piece of modern philosophy for the occasional reader.
As Whitehead writes: “The point is, that speculative extension beyond direct observation spells some trust in metaphysics, however vaguely these metaphysical notions may be entertained in explicit thought.
For instance, in Chapter 6, Foresight, he writes a description of philosophy that seemed to sum up his aim in this book:“Philosophy is not a mere collection of noble sentiments.
But when civilization culminates, the absence of a coördinating philosophy of life, spread throughout the community, spells decadence, boredom, and the slackening of effort.”This claim seems to express the rationale behind Whitehead’s project.
My only criticism is the old-fashioned ethnocentrism inherent throughout. On the whole, however, Whitehead was an amazingly progressive thinker whose perspectives, though often difficult and clothed in his own metaphysical terminology, are interesting and sometimes sublime.
Alfred North Whitehead's "Adventures of Ideas" of 1933 could be two separate books.
Parts I and II ("Sociological" and "Cosmological") show a fine thinker considering the history of ideas and the rise of civilization.
There are interesting propositions on every page, presented with refreshing clarity of thought.
It is not a fast read but is accessible.Parts III and IV ("Philosophical" and "Civilization"), perhaps except for the early chapters, are not for the general reader but rather for students of Philosophy.
It may today strike others as consisting of overfine distinctions, some of matters fairly obvious and others of concepts which appear possible of simplification (for instance by reference to adaptive models).
Whitehead travels loose but deep within ideas supporting human understanding/control over nature and over ourselves. The fun here comes from his provocative argument often saying that civilization is composed by patterns of behaviour + emotion + belief but it also need adventurous actions (e.g., his own) to keep things evolving. To conclude that “religions are often more barbarous than the civilizations in which they flourish”. Go for it if you feel adventurous!
Wonderful book. It has a permanent place on my bookshelf.
My undergraduate degree in philosophy focused on Whitehead. This was prior to my own conversion. While I now am quite critical of Whitehead, I acknowledge him as an import modern thinker.
A Classical Whitehead- Style Book , with an amazing flow of ideas , Coherent contents. I really liked it.
