https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6556.Shadows
A school for children gifted -- or cursed -- with extraordinary minds.
Howard: fraudio#3: 1* Brain Child by John Saul: fraudio#4: 3* Domain (Rats #3) by James Herbert: fraudio#5: 3* The Mourning Vessels by Peter Luther: paperback#6: 2* The Doom of the Great City: ebook short-story#7: 5* Long After Midnight by Ray Bradbury: fraudio#8: 5* The Dead Zone by Stephen King: fraudio#9: CR The Chalice: hardback#10: WL Seven Gothic Tales#11: CR Tales of Men and Ghosts: gutenberg#12: 2* Shattered by Dean Koontz: fraudio#13: 5* The Dunwich Horror: e-book: gutenberg#14: CR Death At Intervals: paperback#15: 3* Alone: gutenberg#16: CR The Shunned House: gutenberg#17: CR The Thing on the Doorstep: ebook#18: 2* Shadows by Saul: fraudio
La trama se desarrolla muy bien, fluye y no se hace pesada, sin que te tenga temblando de miedo logra adentrarte en esos pasillos, ese campo, ese tren, ese...mejor no hablar de eso.
el último twist es bastante destacable, principalmente por el cambio en el personaje, además de que te dejá pensando "Demonios, ese niño quedara traumatizado de por vida".Es un historia imprecindible, no.
La recomiendo, sí, especialmente si quieres algo ligero que utilice a las personas más vulnerables como protagonistas.
Shadows was really thrilling and suspenseful, not to mention one of the most creative and original horror stories I've ever read! Though it gets a little choppy at times it was still really great.
Джош е много умно дете. И знае, че след като е прескочил за втори път клас напред, ще има проблеми с новите си съученици. Възможността да постъпи в частно училище за надарени деца идва точно на време.Но много добро не е на добро, казваме българите и Джош ще научи това по трудния начин.По-ниската ми оценка е заради провлачения в началото стил и остарялата информация в книгата. За тези 25 години, светът в който живеем се е променил драстично.Приятно е да се прочете, без да е нищо особено.
April 2011 Group Read in the John Saul LitGroup.
I had to return my copy of the book to the library or I'd post the passage.
I'm giving the book 5 stars.
I did notice that there seemed to be more focus on Josh's mom earlier in the book with all her struggles as a waitress and then not so much mentioning of her after Josh gets accepted into the academy.
Anyway, I loved the book, it remains one of my favorites.
We read at least one John Saul book every month:http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/4...
Spannend tot de laatste pagina!
This book has single-handedly made me a Saul anti-fan.I love suspense and horror stories. But something about this story just rubbed the wrong way. It may just be the trouble getting into an out of date technology-driven suspense. I also remember really disliking the prose, specifically the sentence fragment repetition used throughout.
Тежка ми беше тази книга, най-вече заради замесените деца.
Не че експериментите с живи хора са оправдани по какъвто и да било начин, но когато са с деца, ми свирят по най-тънката струна.
Но пък се потвърди едно мое схващане (може би защото навсякъде търся да го открия) - колко е важно за децата, а и за възрастните да са емоционално интелигентни.
Високият коефициент на интелигентност не бива да бъде проклятие, даже и свръх умни децата си остават деца и имат нужда да израстнат емоционално, преди да започнат да се товарят с отговорностите на възрастните.
Honestly speaking, I don't remember one bit of the plot line of this book. I read this a long time ago, when I was in the 9th or 10th grade in school but I remember being completely 'wowed' by the book so my rating of 4.5* for this book is based alone on that 'wow' factor! I definitely need to re-read this book again and since I don't remember the plot at all, it probably will be a fresh read for me...
You feel for the main characters Josh and Amy and only wonder why no one found out about Dr Engersoll and his experiments as the number of the dead is rising.
It clearly shows that science has to be controlled otherwise it gets out of hand as it is shown with this academy for extremely gifted children.
In my opinion not Saul's best novel but an interesting subject.
Recommended, when you're interested in artifical intelligence and aren't offended by animal experiment (cat) or theft of organs.
It's a science thriller and not a ghost story or a story with superhuman content.
I have things to do and usually prefer those books I can finish over the weekend.
Secondly, I got a bit annoyed by the dodgy science driving the plot, since the subject explored is actually my field of expertise.Without spoiling it too much I'll say that John Saul pretty much nailed the weird science of Lovecraft while using his own voice.
Sometimes Saul puts you in a character's head for a single paragraph and then jumps to another character in the same room during the same scene.
Great concept, unique book, but overall some aspects do not hold up well to time.Without spoilers, this review is nothing, so I'll just say that it was well-written, naturally paced, and super unique.
The biggest thing that dates this book, however, is the talk of computers from the 1990s.
It's hilarious to hear about C:/ command prompts, cable modems connecting a phone line to the internet, and "text boxes" and images forming on the screen.
That said, it wouldn't work in today's society, so I'm glad it was written in the 90s.Overall, definitely worth a read.
One of the worst translations I have ever read. Almost ruined the reading experience.The book was filled with cringe-worthy cliches, but I could forgive it for trying to go into too many technical details for 1992.Reinforces my opinion that Stephen King is The King.
Cartea nu este de groaza dar este un thriller psihologic, tematica este noua, cel putin pentru mine.
Nu am mai intalnit un astfel de subiect si chiar mi-a placut, din moment ce am devorat-o complet in doua zile chiar daca experimentele nu ma intereseaza ca subiect in general.
Josh este la varsta sa un geniu care in curand se va alatura unei scoli speciale pentru copiii speciali.
Dar doctorul institutului face experimente pe creierele lor, ceea ce este normal la o astfel de scoala dar experimentele nu sunt deloc normale, sunt socante si copii din scoala mor de suicid.
What a fantastically unnerving story, the best John Saul I've read yet.The characters were sound, the descriptions were good, the imagination concerning the ability of computers was great considering the impossibilities of the future and the relentless killing typical of his work was awesome, as usual.
The story moved at a quick pace and I tore through the entirety in only four or five sittings.Quality shit for sure.There is something about the loss of senses that rattles me, it's one of my horror soft spots and when Amy awoke in the void, the black vacuum...
oh shit yeah!Great.
GREAT!
GREAT!
This was a really short but interesting novel. It didn't quite end the way that I thought it would but that is not a bad thing. John Saul had me wondering and speculating until the end. An excellent story.
The story was entertaining even though its computer plot was a little outdated. I liked that it's a creepy story that isn't bogged down in gore. The character development was pretty good, but it always seems to black and white when the "bad guys" don't have any redeeming qualities whatsoever.
Someone at my work is a horror fan - managed to snatch this and Clive Barker from the book bin in the lunch room :D
This book is by far one of my favorite creepy books. Gave me nightmares for months after reading it and it's still one of my favorites that I return to.
This was a pretty average book. It felt really dated, published in 1992 when authors were excited about the possibilities of virtual reality and the endless opportunities offered by computers.
I would have loved to have given this book four stars, but the first 2/3 of it dragged for me.
I was reading a few other books at the same time, because it just wasn’t keeping me interested.
I’m glad I finally finished it, because the last third of the book was amazing.
I do think the book could’ve been shorter, though.
This is my first John Saul book, and I got halfway through it when I thought, “well I guess I won’t be reading anymore by this guy.” The latter third changed my mind, however.
Don’t judge this book by its title.
english/españolI really liked that the book has not had compassion for the characters, although I thought it was exaggerated the fact that- almost- all died, but their deaths are justifiable and logical.
I do not know if I didn't read a part but do not define what happened with The Language Teacher (I do not remember his name).Me gusto bastante que la obra no haya tenido compasión por los personajes, aunque me pareció exagerado el hecho que -casi- todos murieran, sin embargo sus muertes son justificables y lógicas.
No se si me salte una parte pero no definen que pasó con El Profesor de lengua(No recuerdo su nombre).
Definitely different from other john saul books I've read. This book took more of a sci fi horror approach. The first half of the book started off slow, not really going into anything too crazy, but once you get past that, the pace really picks up, and gets very interesting. Not my favorite John Saul book, but definitely a good read.
An okay plot for mass-produced horror... however, most of the story is given from childrens' point-of-view. Reads more like YA than adult. Some of the storylines tend to lean more toward cheesy than devious.
Meh with a touch of OMG, this could be so real.Poor writing developed around an interesting idea - transfering human brains into computers to make the brain-computers smarter and help them develop continuously.
This was a decent story. Last 75 pages kept me in somewhat suspense.I may be growing out of this genre though. Just couldn't gettotally into it.
The ending was sad but also took a little to long to get started
This book was creepy & what made it even creepier is that somewhere this might actually be happening. Makes me glad I’m not a genius
Good Saul novel
definite page turner and really makes you think "What if?"
