https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6871617-this-side-of-the-grave
You should NOT be able to spoil either series by not reading the spin-off series in between books of the original series, and vice versa.Although Frost’s Night Huntress World series is supposed to be a spin-off, it really isn’t.
Because readers don’t deserve to have MAJOR spoilers just because they don’t anticipate or expect that it is critical for the two series to be read in a very specific order, here it is (so far):Halfway to the GraveOne Foot in the GraveAt Grave's EndDestined for an Early GraveFirst Drop of CrimsonEternal Kiss of DarknessThis Side of the GraveIn other words, don’t read this one until you have read the first two of the Night Huntress World “spin-off” series.
5 World's Freakiest Bloodsucker Stars*Spoilers*First read 2/27/2014 reread 11/26/2015"Kitten, you've been a vampire for less than a year. During that time, you've blown the head off a Master vampire through pyrokinesis and frozen dozens of vampires into a stupor through telekinesis. Your abilities, plus your occasional heartbeat, are bound to frighten some people."-Bones "You know, in addition to your mind-reading abilities, I may have absorbed some sluttiness from your blood,"-CatThe hits just
You made me promise before to go on if that happened, but Bones" - here my words broke and tears spilled down my cheeks - "I wouldn't want to."-CatThis book was full of sweet emotions for me.
"I am forever yours, Kitten, in this life or the next."-BonesEven though Bones and Cat are fucking awesome characters they are not the only ones that shine in this series or book.
I loved that Mencheres and Cat really made up in this book.
Very embarrassing, I don't like to talk about it."-Cat and VladThere was a little of Ian in this book, but not nearly enough.
🖤🐶🐺🐾
Even if it’s got something to do with the next book, it could surely wait till then, where his appearance would have something to do with the plot.The relationship between Cat and Bones is different this time around and even though I was happy that Cat didn’t follow the pattern of doing things her own way with disastrous results, I dare say that it was… boring.
"Be still my non-beating heart" Let's see...Cat and Bones are in loveCat and Bones have earth shattering sex (chapter 21 everybody!)Cat and Bones fight against a deadly enemy (Bad bad ghouls!)So, not many things happen in this book that move forward the main story. Just Cat feels more comfortable being a full vampire (flying is really awesome).Mencheres and Kira (Eternal Kiss of Darkness) as well as Denise and Spade (First Drop of Crimson) make an appearance.And Timmie, Cat's neighbour seven ye
Let's see...Cat and Bones are in loveCat and Bones have earth shattering sex (chapter 21 everybody!)Cat and Bones fight against a deadly enemy (Bad bad ghouls!)So, not many things happen in this book that move forward the main story.
Just Cat feels more comfortable being a full vampire (flying is really awesome).Mencheres and Kira (Eternal Kiss of Darkness) as well as Denise and Spade (First Drop of Crimson) make an appearance.And Timmie, Cat's neighbour seven years ago from her first book (Halfway to the Grave) is apparently still alive!
And he is a troublesome reporter.But I feel that Vlad steals the show once more and my favourite quote is by him:
Guys, I'm meeting Jeaniene Frost in Orlando at the end of July!!! afaadjfhsohfosndfjzhgljg
Have you ever done that thing where you say something and realize it came out very very wrong, and then tried to talk your way out of it, only to continue making it worse? I have... and I'll fill you in later... it counts as the most embarrassing moment of my life. So, I felt much better when Cat has this same problem twice in this book. I'm hungry enough that both of you are starting to looking really, really good."Vlad's lips curled. "Is this the part where I'm supposed to remind you that this
I'm hungry enough that both of you are starting to looking really, really good."Vlad's lips curled.
"Is this the part where I'm supposed to remind you that this is just the leftover power talking and you don't really want to cheat on Bones?""Not that kind of hungry!" I gasped, eyes bulging that Vlad thought I'd just casually thrown out that I wanted him and Mencheres to double-team me.
Bad.I actually asked a lady if she "had a little baby in there", while patting her pregnant belly, only to have her tell me that she wasn't pregnant.
OMG!! yeahhh... that rocks!! I totally thougt that the 4th book was the last... and now she brings out a 5th book!!!?? Jeanine Frost?! I love u!haha... my fav *kick-ass heroine* vampire book series!! <3 PS.: I think I'll go crazy until it comes out! ...can't wait ^^
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Umm what is going on with me?*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Re-read: 08.11.2018 The fifth book in the series starts several months after book four (seven years from book one). It still centers around now turned vampire Catherine ‘Cat’ ‘Cathy’ ‘Kitten’ ‘Commander’ ‘The Red Reaper’ Kathleen Crawfield (27? 28?) and her vampire husband Crispin Phillip Arthur Russell III (Crispin was his human name) ‘Bones’ (247? 249?). Cat's been a vampire for less than a year, but that doesn't stop her from being special still;
(hide spoiler)]→ Tate Bradley (late twenties), had been a sergeant in the Special Forces, a very select unit of them, is now on Cat's team.
Dave gets killed by a vampire and at end of the book two, Rodney and Bones makes him a ghoul.
Juan got turned into a vampire by choice by Bones.→ Denise, Cat's friend for over three years.
He was Cat's third captain.→ Mencheres (over 4000, though from his appearance, you wouldn’t think he was a day over 25), the vampire who made Ian, so that makes him Bones' fang granddaddy/grandsire.
(view spoiler)[Cat kills him at the end of the book.
Cat and Bones have had a very rough time of it lately and while they have come out on top in the last few battles, there still were loved ones lost and irreparable consequences.
I'm sure there will always be some tension between them as they are both extremely strong willed, but in the end they could not be more perfect for one another.Since this is my favorite series, there always is the fear that the latest book will not live up to my admittedly high expectations.
Bones and Cat have some humor as well but it works even better with ol' Drac around.Marie as the voodoo queen is creepy and brings a dark grittiness to the series that it needed.
The villain was interesting to fit with the story's flow, although not a particularly strong opponent in the end.There's a truly sad occurrence with a family member, but there's a small cliffhanger on the last pages that holds a punch of humor and made me smile and feel better about that plot turn.Cat will never be a favorite of mine, but she's more endurable - and when paired when some creative side characters who make it impossible to turn my eyes away, the story shines.
The quality of this series reduced so much in this, Basically nothing happened it was just repetitions of old stuffs and just a little new stuffs. I was bored half way through and the rest part that was new was really fun.The writing is still great and I adore the character development, the plot not so much. “As long as you’re with me, I can handle it,” I said, reaching up to touch his face. “I can handle anything with you.”“I’ll always be with you, Kitten. Always,” Bones rasped before his lips
The quality of this series reduced so much in this, Basically nothing happened it was just repetitions of old stuffs and just a little new stuffs.
I was bored half way through and the rest part that was new was really fun.The writing is still great and I adore the character development, the plot not so much.
“As long as you’re with me, I can handle it,” I said, reaching up to touch his face.
“I can handle anything with you.”“I’ll always be with you, Kitten.
I give credit to the Night Huntress series and my GR friends who told me about the greatness of this series from the Bones Train in getting me back into the PNR genre again.
Revisiting Cat and Bones is always a fun experience, this time around though I wasn’t engaged like I was in the earlier novels.
Of course just because the story didn’t shine, it didn’t mean it didn’t make leaps and bounds in other parts, mostly the strong relationship between Cat and Bones the backbone of the Night Huntress series.
With the new mature relationship between Cat and Bones one of the bright spots of the book the other was Vlad!
Meh. A little slow.I never would have thought that these would be words to describe a Cat and Bones book.
I’ve always loved Cat and Bones and was looking forward to an enjoyable read.
Don’t get me wrong – there are some great and exciting scenes in the book, but for the most part, it was a dull read for me.Cat and Bones were a little bland for me this time.
A very interesting use of candles, Cat. I did think that the chapter was kind of thrown in, like it didn’t belong so soon in the book, but I’ll take it.
I also loved the scenes where Bones is teaching Cat how to fly.
4 Awesome Stars.In this fifth book we have Cat and Bones in the middle of an extreme war.
Since Cat is under threat she and Bones have to seek help with the most unexpected resources and once again, fight a dangerous war against their lives and this time, against their own species.
But well, Cat is Cat and Bones is Bones and they together are pure awesomeness so you already know what you can expect from these book.
Seriously, these books are like Cheetos: once you have the first one, you can’t stop until you have them all.
It was quite good. Vlad rocks. :DAnd I would appreciate more of Ian. He was there like for five minutes and the author almost just mentioned him! Like all interesting characters are being pushed out of the pages to promote other characters that are just simply annoying.
Cat and Bones are running around trying to prevent a war, Mencheres is having loud sex (yuck), Vlad doesn't even have a girlfriend (I'm guessing that will be fixed in the next Night Huntress World book, that seems to be Frost's modus operandi) and Justina is joining Tate's crew.
For me it was around the time Cat turned into a full vampire.
She's suddenly a fucking Superman, absorbing powers from just about everyone - vampires, ghouls, who cares?!
So with this going on throughout the book, Don coming back as a ghost was a complete surprise.
Bones lost about ten points with that one!
While this fifth installment mainly follows Cat’s mysterious evolution and exploration of her intriguing, mystical powers, it continues to fuel to my desire for more of this lovely couple and their myriad adventures.
I've been on Cat & Bones withdrawals because the 4th book in the series was a bit mehh, and then we got 2 books in the Night Huntress World spin-off, and I was not so happy with Spade's, and I did liked Mencheres.But here we are back with Cat & Bones....
There's a lot of biting involved in both, except OFITG was Bones doing the biting, in TSOTG was Cat. But biting aside, I think this book gives us a little bit more intense view of what else they were doing aside from all the biting ;) And I loved seeing Bones lose control!
It had so many varied elements that make a novel an instant favourite: humour, sadness, mystery, smut...I find it much more difficult writing reviews like this when I really enjoyed nearly every aspect of the book.
I would start going on about his and Cat's awesome sex scenes again but people who read my reviews will start thinking that's all I talk about (hehe).However, Ms Frost, that cliffhanger was hardly necessary, was it?
I was always going to read book number 6 when it comes out in August(!) without you being cruel and giving me something to tear my hair out about until then.
This book continues the vampire vs ghoul war that seems to brewing because of Cat's unusual abilities now that she has been turned in to a vampire.
I liked seeing Vlad and can not wait for his book to come out in the Night Huntress World spin off series.
I also liked seeing Kira and Menchere's as well, and when Cat and Bone's caught, or rather heard them in the act it was fricking hilarious.
Now as for Cat and Bones, the central characters, I love their connection and complete love and trust they have in eachother, which has really grown over the last four books.
Now, onto the inside flap cover...I do have a question, inside flap, isn't Bones missing a nipple?
I was looking (ok I was looking really hard) at the picture of Bones and realized his nipple (I think it was his left nipple since I don't have the book in front of me) or at least a portion of his nipple should be showing just on the edge of his leather vest.
Where is the man's nipple?Also, I forgot what Vlad is supposed to look like?
Someone, anyone, please give me a description so I can imagine all his good juicy details.
Did I just say juicy?
5 stars because... Ghosts are the weirdest thing here. And they go around unexplained much... Just very strange, in my opinion. And even thought Cat and Bones are still made for each other... I love Vlad, and i ship him with Cat (Vlat)
I love how in this installment of the Night Huntress series, we have Bones and Cat happy.It may sound cheesy, but there it is.
While I love the tension of them at odds with each other, I hate how hard it is to read about what we know is a perfect-for-each-other-couple fighting.In this book, they aren't fighting with each other.
So killing Cat is nothing personal, right?
But Cat is a bit more grown-up in this book.
Cat is trying to convince Bones and Vlad to let a ghoul who'd tried to kill her go free as a gesture of goodwill.
Although I did feel that there was far less of that in this installment than in the previous books.(view spoiler)[I have to wonder if Ian will end up with Veritas, the Law Guardian who's as old as Mencheres.
But I have to give credit where credit is due, and I don't feel that Frost deserves as much credit with this one as she did with her previous novels.I'm crossing my fingers that One Grave at a Time will bring back the magic of the first four books in this series.
~~~~ 4 STARS OR 8/10 ~~~~Do you know what the best thing is about this series?There are never any cliffhangers used in place of a good story to keep readers invested!
Do you know why people keep coming back to read more?Because it's not the cliffhanger that keeps us coming, but the incredible stories.With every instalment there's a build from the previous book but things are always mostly resolved inclusively.
I love Cat and Bones.
The last book was quite angsty with the massive blows to Cat and Bones's relationship.
So this instalment had us seeing a new and improved Cat and Bones.
My review would be a broken record at this point. What can I say that I haven't mentioned already? I love the lore. I love Bones. I love the fierce action. I love Bones. I love the secondary characters especially Vlad. I love Bones. I love the steamy scenes. I love Bones. I love the relationship between Cat and Bones. I love Bones. See broken record.One of my favorite paranormal series, but I must be clear... it's not a Young Adult book. Definitely not YA...
LOVE LOVE LOVED it!!!One thing about Ms. Frost's books is that you laugh (out loud), you get excited and thrilled right along with the story .... and yes I was a blithering idiot near the end of the story feeling Cat's pain and loss.I hope Ms. Frost writes about Ian and Vlad soon... these boys so needs to settle down.
No more quickand harsh decisions for our Heroine.Her Relationship with Bones also matured to a full pledge marriedcouple who continue to do things by mutual decisions and not behindeach other backs.Frost was able to keep thier relationship still full of LOVE, LUST,and continues with FUN by bantering with each other.
No worries, Frost left alot ofopen scenerios for her next installment.The book ended with lots of posibilities to new friends(ghosts) andfoes(Marie and her ghoul followers).
Although we lost someone in thisbook, Frost managed to end it with a sentence that made me smile, hugmy nook and sigh.I cannot wait for the next NH book and the long awaited Vlad's series.
Oh thank goodness this series is BACK on track! Much more exciting and SO MUCH LESS WHINEY BEHAVIOR from Cat. I wanted to smack her! So needless to say this was another great adventure and you can never trust the elders. They all play WAY longer games in life haha. Love it 4/5 Stars
