https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672178.The_Best_of_O_Henry
What better writer to read for Short Story Month (May, 2017) than William Sydney Porter, better known by his pen name O.
candy bar is NOT named for him, in case you were wondering, as I was.)Porter left his home state for Texas where things quickly went wrong for him and he was sentenced to five years in a federal penitentiary for bank embezzlement.
He was released for good behavior after three years and moved to NYC, where in 1903, he was hired by New York World to write a short story a week for their Sunday magazine--stories that would reflect life in urban and rural America.
This set starts off with what are arguably his most popular stories, The Last Leaf and The Gift of the Magi, and go on to some lesser-known ones, such as Witches’ Loaves, The Passing of Black Eagle and On Behalf of the Management.
Witches’ Loaves too has some of that laugh-out-loud element, but right at the very end; and it’s there, in a subtler way in The Passing of Black Eagle.
I liked most of the stories in this collection; the only ones I found a bit tedious were The Pride of the Cities, Man About Town and On Behalf of the Management.
I fell in love with O.Henry's short stories after reading The gift of Magi & the last leaf,when I was in class 7. Since then I have enjoyed his work.The book consists of stories with regular people but with a twist in the end.
He has a sharp eye for the minute, daily clashes and crashes between individuals of various races, backgrounds, etc, as per the America of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
It makes me think that Singapore is in a similar situation - if only we had a writer with a sharp eye and turn of phrase to turn our history into the next generation's literature!
He has a style of introducing social criticism and philosophy into his writing, but obliquely, so you're not sure if he thinks it or stating/drescribing it in order to satirise it.
LOVED it. I know alot of people wouldn't sit through a book of short stories, but I've always loved them, and O. Henry has a gift like nobody else. His stories CAN be slightly predictable, but many of them were original, and ingenious, and just thoroughly enjoyable. Loved it!
Back in 2010 or so, I read one of my daughters' school books, The Best Short Stories of O.
Henry.
until my eldest daughter moved out and took the book with her.
Well, when I actually read through the book, I realized that I had purchased different collection.
It had a few tales I hadn't read before and was lacking at least one I had remembered from the other "best".
But in the end the book was still a gem.
O. Henry deftly plays with words and settings, taking the reader on a brief journey into the lives of his character.
I would buy this book if only for Gifts of the Magi and The Ransom of Red Chief.
Gifts of the Magi is a Christmas story that does not lose its shimmer out of season.
If you want to know what love is, true love, read Gifts of the Magi.
And ANY exhausted and dispirited parent of any rambunctious and precocious ten-year-old must read The Ransom of Red Chief, if only to remind yourself, "I am not alone!" Lively story with a funny twist, it will leave you with that, "Yep. That's a boy!"Of course, this is O.
The book description is inaccurate; the Playaway version contains 7 short stories. I was familiar with a few of them, but some were new to me! The disadvantage of listening to a lot of O. Henry all at once is that you come to expect and predict the twists at the end, I suppose. Still, it's a solid collection of enjoyable tales.
Không chắc đúng quyển này không nữa.Tuyển tập O'Henry, quả xứng đáng là văn học kinh điển. Những câu chuyện thường ngày của tuyến nhân vật phụ :)
Have always loved O. Henry's surprise endings.
I also know that he did earn a decent salary for a writer in his day and did live to see some high acclaim, which many writers would have loved to have seen (ahem Edgar Allan Poe for example) But all of this seems well deserved.To get to my point, however, is that usually throughout the course of several stories, you gain a real sense of the author as a person...O. Henry seems to adeptly obscure himself within so many varied characters dealing with so many different issues in life and from so many walks of life.
I picked up this book in a used book store, Cellar Stories, in downtown Providence, RI, while out for a lunchtime walk about 15 years ago.
As most people do, I knew a couple of the stories and was curious about O'Henry's writing style.
It describes how O'Henry's style, vocabulary, story telling ability and perspective it easily witnessed by the reader as she starts and follows, front to back.I loved it.
A brilliant man who has been unable to get back into reading since a he had a couple of strokes more than 20 years ago.
So I have read a script version of this about 1000 times, broken it down, memorized and read it again and then performed it about 8 times.
Many of O'Henry's story's show the "real" picture of life for people in the cities while still giving you the warm fuzzies.
Performances are generally at the Cultural Arts museum.
O'Henry, by the way was born in Greensboro, NC and lived there until he was a young man.
Greensboro claims him, but he did not claim Greensboro, in his heart he was a man of the city.
I listened to this in the car and I think it would have been better in a quiet situation, like in the dark before bed, because everything is so condensed and the innuendo is important.
He manages to evoke a lot of feeling for his characters, especially in stories like "The Furnished Room" and "The Green Door." Yes, the irony is always there, but so are the twists and turns and blind corners.
Having a story from the dog's point of view is pretty cool.All in all, a good set to have.
Nice to pick up and read or listen to now and again.- T.
But I wanted to get Tje Ransom of Red Chief and The Gift of The Magi all in one swell foop (as my aunt says), and the rest came along for the ride.
I came to O Henry at the wrong age.
But as a pre-teen being led by the nose into 'good literature', I was mulish and balky, and determined not to like anything I was shown.
Now, of course, I'd be really glad to come across a copy of an anthology like this.
Anyway, I did read The Gift of The Magi later, so I know what to wish for.
My dad got me this book after he discovered that I have not read the Gift of the Magi.
This book is a huge collection of O.
The Gift of the Magi was probably my favorite short story in the book, but they all had the same formula with a twist ending.
After awhile you train yourself to not read the last paragraph or line of the story so you don't spoil the ironic ending.
While it is quite entertaining the way the stories conclude, it does get a little old when trying to read the book straight through.
I first read O Henry, some years ago in his most famous story 'The Gift of the Magi' which is one of the few stories I recall often as one of my favourite short stories.
This week I was fortunate enough to do so.I enjoyed my short read as the stories were quite short, not so elaborated but relating to a particular incidence, with unexpected twist endings.
And as critics say prominent features of his stories seemed to be warm characterization, witticism and clever wordplay.For me, short story is mostly about how a writer presents an incidence.
I love O. Henry's stories.Although I will prepare my own guess of the how the author will end it, I always surprised how wrong my predictions were when it comes to O. Henry's short stories. The only problem with this collection is that, there are a lot of typographical errors. Almost every page contains spelling mistakes, which I think is a grave sin in publishing. I don't think Jaico had been thorough in proofreading. So, I hope that they will publish flawless copies on their next printing.
O. Henry was a brilliant story writer. I am amazed when I find people who have never read a single one of his stories. There was always one O. Henry short story in my English books and it was always assigned. As soon as my mother purchased my school books at the beginning of the year, I would thumb through the pages of my English class textbook to find if there was an O. Henry story in there. Definitely a wonderful treat for any avid reader of short stories.
O. Henry short stories are the scale that all other short stories in English are measured against. Writers crave winning the O. Henry Award for their writing. Winners have included Stephen King, John Updike, and Woody Allen (had to throw that one in). This is a good little collection of some of the stories from the ex-con who wrote under the pseudonym O. Henry.
O.Henry. "Cop and the Anthem" with Soapy was the first story followed by "after Twenty Years" with Silky Bob and Jimmy Wells. And from then on I've tried to read as much as I could. This collection begins with a beautiful description of streets and roads. And has some very very good stories including the above and also "The Last Leaf". Probably the major missing story is "Roads of Destiny".
The stories of O. Henry are fun, light, and useful for teaching narrative structure in school. However, each story follows a basic formula of setup, drama, and twist ending as epitomized in "Gifts of the Magi." They're not stories which teach much or make you question humanity or the world; they're more like fables with simple messages and morals.
I read O'Henry in school as a part of my English curriculum. I loved the story (20 years later) and always wanted to read more of his works. I was fascinated by The last leaf and also The secret of the magi, but this book was boring to the hiltI never thought that his collection would be so boring. Most of them are so monotonous that it left me completely drowsy to no ends.
Not sure how I missed ready any O. Henry before this. They're great. The first half was western stories, the second half stories centered in New York City. He is witty, throwing in twists to almost every ending. I learned a whole bunch of new words while I was at it (and that I have a lambrequin in my house ooh!)
O. Henry is a master of language and can use it like an artist uses brush and canvas. He paints his story with words. I enjoyed him in jr.high, high school and university. When someone refers to his language as archaic, they should consider the date he wrote it and that the language of that day was. Heck, they even have a candy bar named after him.
Airplane book.Getting five stars because I didn't think it would 'hook' me (and I love O. Henry) because I didn't think these stories were really the author's best.I was totally wrong. This little text helped me survive a scary take-off from PDX, and held my attention on a brutal red eye flight. So, hats off to you, Ian F. A. Bell. You really know your stuff.
It's evident why O. Henry is one of the finest writers from any era. Right off the bat "A Harlem Tragedy" knocks your socks off and the stories that follow are just as crisp, easy to read and captivating. Clip on your "mighty bright" book light (got mine at Borders) in a pitch black room and go off into your imagination. Thanks, "New York World". Thanks, O.!
O. Henry has a way with words reminiscent of Fitzgerald: one turn of phrase, and he owns the English language. Savor O. Henry intermittently. A few stories here and there in between longer reads. Otherwise, many of his "twist-endings" come to feel all-too-predictable.
i adore o'henry. excellent writing style, great dry wit, beautifully crafted sentences. his stories usually have a white hat verses black theme and are good for some quick moral inventory.
Favs are The Green Door and The Skylight Room
