https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40500762-the-broken-sword
Adventurous and entertaining as well, the only reason I can think that it has been less successful than its English cousins is that where Lewis and Tolkien created fantasies rich in detail but were clearly (especially Lewis) a Christian allegory, Anderson’s book is more purely mythic and leans more heavily on the animistic perspective and stands outside the Christian house looking in.
If you like a good fantasy and if you are interested in a blend of history and myth, and any reader who enjoyed Neil Gaiman’s American Gods, should love this book.
A very good read, and should be on a short list of greatest mythic fantasy books of all time.
THIS JUST IN.... In a stunning development certain to send shockwaves through the world of Fantasy Literature, The Lord of the Rings, long considered by many to be the "Greatest Epic Fantasy" of all time, has been bitch-slapped and bitch-smote by Poul Anderson's 1954 dark fantasy epic, The Broken Sword. Anderson's story is now loudly demanding at least a share of the top honors. Such recognition would be welcome and long overdue according to fantasy icon Michael Moorcock who believes that Ander
In a stunning development certain to send shockwaves through the world of Fantasy Literature, The Lord of the Rings, long considered by many to be the "Greatest Epic Fantasy" of all time, has been bitch-slapped and bitch-smote by Poul Anderson's 1954 dark fantasy epic, The Broken Sword.
Both Valgard and Scafloc become pivotal pawns in a complex, massive epic orchestrated by the gods and involving all out (and I mean ALL OUT) war between the Elves and their allies and the trolls and their allies.
Trying to understand fantasy solely through Tolkien and the authors he influenced is like trying to ride a horse with only one leg.Much has been made of the fact that The Broken Sword was released the same year as The Lord of the Rings, and it's true that the similarities between the two books do not end there: both have distant, tall elves, deep-delving dwarves, a broken sword which must be reforged, an epic war between armies of light and darkness, a central character who is trapped between that conflict, and an interweaving of the Christian and Mythical Pagan worldviews.Comparing the two works, it becomes increasingly clear how little of Tolkien's world was original--and how the original aspects tended to be the weakest.
The tales were everywhere as mountains harboured dwarves and trolls, treetops were infested with fairies and the ground one walked upon held within it both the Depths of Darkness and the Source of Life.A wizard sat by the fire, brooding.
The metallic churning of machines and the clinging of dirty coins drowned out all other noise and Man had stopped listening to the wizard’s stories.
One that did not scare away busy Man with many pages but carried an abundance of stories within it nonetheless.
It is a story carved in trees and stones and hearts, whispered in winds and memories.
Now I will talk about his versatility, The Broken Sword is nothing like his sci-fi books that I have read before, and it is so very different from Tau Zero that it is hard to believe the same author wrote both books.
Clarke writing this, or even Heinlein, whose only fantasy Glory Road is still very Heinlein in style.The Broken Sword is one of Anderson's comparatively few fantasy novels, this book and Three Hearts and Three Lions are his two most popular fantasy titles.
The night was very quiet save for the sighing of wind in budding branches, and the world was all sliding shadows and cold white light."Published in 1954, Poul Anderson’s The Broken Sword is one of the forgotten giants of early modern fantasy.
The focus is on the various peoples and creatures of Norse mythology, and as such, this is more than anything a Scandinavian fantasy story, easily explained by Anderson’s Danish blood.To a modern eye, the writing style is archaic, but unfortunately not poetic.
It’s hardly difficult to read in any way, but the writing is in no way outstanding or impressive.Michael Moorcock praised The Broken Sword as superior to Tolkien.
It is a grim tale, full of hardship and scant of pity, worthy of the old Scandinavian sagas that inspired it.It tells of the struggle between Skafloc, a human child raised by elves, and of the changeling Valgard (half elf, half troll) left behind in his place.
The two are destined to battle each other in the great war between the elves and the trolls, and the Broken Sword—a god’s gift to the infant Skafloc—is fated to determine the course of their dark destiny.Michael Moorcock loved his book as a boy, and considered it superior to Tolkien.
There are other mythical creatures and gods involved in the conflict, but the most intimate battles rage in the hearts of Skafloc, who discovers too late that he has unknowingly fallen in love with his sister Freda, and Valgard, who is beguiled by an evil witch into slaying his brothers and parents, which drives him from human society and into the hands of the trolls, with whom he shares blood ties.
It may not be as grand or as ambitious as LOTR, but The Broken Sword is recognized, by several in the know, as an unheralded classic by Poul Anderson, a major fantasy & science-fiction master, and this book, a personal favorite of mine.The Broken Sword was first published in 1954, the same year as The Fellowship of the Ring.
Tell me that doesn't sound cool!I don't want to spoil the story for you so I will say nothing more regarding it.Suffice to say it is written by a master, involving elves, trolls, dwarves and magic swords in a world you will love.
But what of Skafloc, the child that was taken, and the broken sword given to him as a baby by the Aesir?I originally picked this up because Michael Moorcock frequently cites it as an influence on his Elric saga.
The Broken Sword has a lot of the epic feel of the Elric saga, complete with a huge war at the end, a sword with a mind of its own, and some tragedy.The characters were interesting but not developed all that well.
While a lot of the story was predictable, the ending was a surprise.One aspect of the book that I really liked was Anderson's elven culture, much more like Moorcock's Melniboneans than Tolkien's elves.
Thus, she sets into motion a vile plan with the help of a mighty godling; one which will ultimately doom Skafloc, Valgard, their families, the elf-folk, and troll-kind!After finishing The Broken Sword, I can easily declare that it is an entertaining tale which does many things well.
Not only that but other fae-folk, gods, and even mortals foreshadow the coming tragedies throughout the narrative, so when the unexpected doom falls upon our heroes, it is something that most readers will have guessed long before it is actually happens.
For hours I endured this book and its endless descriptions of stuff, and its endless fucking lays and verse (seriously, every time I heard "Scofloc quothe" I wanted to just shove my own head into the dishwater until it was over - the verse or my breathing, whichever came first), and its endless whining romance, and endless everything else.
I don't care to know how it ends.
And so, it is with great relief that I prove that once again I have gone and read a book wrong.
Anything is better than listening to more verse from this book.
Give them immediate adventure, no superfluous quests or long-winded reliance on the little annoying things like lembas this and lembas that, and throw them deep into revenge, epic love stories, swords that will chop down the world-tree, incest, the undead, and the machinations of the Norse gods.
And of course, you can't have a tale without witches, trolls, elves, and dwarves, especially when they are NOT the derivative of JRRT, that they are derived precisely from the epic tales of Norse legends, that they are as old and deep and rich as the real peoples who have been telling these tales for over a thousand years, and we're not forgetting Wagner's Ring Cycle, are we?
Based on several types or areas of mythology from northern Europe the story telling style is patterned after the Icelandic Sagas.
I have seen reviews of this book that rate it as better than Tolkien even one by Michael Moorcock...I can't agree with that.
The title of the book will tell you (obviously) that there is a sword involved and the story of it's reforging is integral to the novel.
So, not a contemporary fantasy and very involved in being a saga, still a good story and a good novel.Even though I go three (3) stars I do recommend you at least give this one a try.
The Broken Sword is a imagined mythology by Poul Anderson in the Norse style.
For that very reason I give it a four star rating and only because of the tragic nature of its plot do I avoid giving it the full five stars.This is an excellent introduction for anyone interested in looking at the style of Norse mythology.
What follows is however also a unique new Norse style myth featuring a few extra characters such as Irish gods and even a faun.
It also read like a mix of faerie tale and Nordic myth, with its inclusion of elves typical from Anglo-Saxon and Celtic lore and creatures that are a trademark of Norse lore, adding also the gods and demigods from both sides, and in tone and style of storytelling, it's reminiscent of the Saga of the Volsungs (the protagonist and antagonist main leads have strong elements from Siegmund and his sons Sinfjötli and Siegfried, which is why I'm adding the shelf tag).I heard that this was published at the same time as LOTR, and with that in mind, it was very interesting to compare the way Anderson depicts the elves with the way Tolkien does.
An elf kidnaps the young baby Scafloc, and in his place substitutes a changeling named Valgard.
He takes refuge among the trolls, where he becomes a feared warrior, bent on revenge on the elves.The story is dark, with not a trace of light-heartedness.
It is common practice for "good" Vikings to go off and pillage, as do most of the other races in the story--trolls, elves, dwarves, etc.
He roamed the lands, found a place he wanted to live, killed the inhabitants, and moved in.
I listened to this book as an audiobook, read by Bronson Pinchot.
He truly brings the story to life.
It draws on the mythology, of course, and the path of curses and thwarted love and raiding echoes that of the sagas, but it also echoes their form: the narration, especially to begin with, is very much like a saga, and the verses all comply with the Old Norse metres.
The tale of lost love, and the verses of first love and desire and then lament fit that pattern, albeit not like a glove.The verses really, really impressed me.
In the course of this, Skafloc and his sister Freda, not knowing their relationship, fall in love...It's fun -- adventure and love and doom and a tragic end, quite fitting for a skald.
(Love that guy!) Dirda notes in his intro that there are two versions of THE BROKEN SWORD in existence, as Anderson made revisions to the text in the early 70's.
(I assume that would have been for the Ballantine Adult Fantasy line of books, but Dirda didn't mention that.) The text Gollancz has reprinted here is the more savage and brutal original version as first published in the 1950s.
Moorcock writes, "I greatly admired Poul Anderson's THE BROKEN SWORD (still one of the great classics of the genre, particularly in its original version)..."
A classic of the first water, full of magic and revenge and inappropriate relations, told in masterfully-crafted prose.
And at various points events are nudged along by a grim-faced, one-eyed wanderer ...
It's been a lot of years since I've read anything by Anderson, although I liked his books quite a bit when I was younger.
I think I bought this in the late 70's, have had it around ever since & am glad I hung on to it.
I think one reason I didn't rate it higher before was because the action was somewhat understated & the jarring ending, which was really quite perfect.I plan to read Three Hearts and Three Lions again soon, another classic by him.
I rated it higher than this book, which is surprising.
More surprising is that his SF is every bit as good.
Ghiaccio e sangue Affascinante e suggestivo questo violento caleidoscopio di mortali e divinità, pun
The story is interesting, drawn from Scandinavian, Irish and English myths, with conflicts between Christianity and Pagan Gods.
Most probably the dark and grim creatures and happenings are closer to the original folklore than in other works, Anderson not being afraid to include bloody murders, rapes, cruel gods.
Battles are masterfully told, but the characters are hardly identifiable with or likeable.Something curious: Anderson's elves reminded me of vampires: afraid of the sun and iron, not bearing to hear God's name or seeing the cross, having no soul.I would be very interested in rereading this, but translated in Romanian :)
"The evil done in the world was never all troll work," said Illrede quietly. "It seems to me that you have done a deed more wicked than any of mine in bringing that blade to earth again. Whatever his nature, which the Norns and not himself gave, no troll would do such a thing.""No troll would dare!" sneered Skafloc, and rode in upon him.
Epic Fantasy, with a capitol Ep. And this isn't your standard rainbows and happy endings Epic, either -- this is old-time-religion, blood-and-guts, Ring-of-the-Niebelung, Bad Sh*t Happens Epic.
The Broken Sword was written with an Epically old-fashioned, Epically dramatic, Epically romantic prose style, and intentionally stole ideas from many other epics that preceded it (as, of course, did many of those earlier epics themselves).
And it's got everything a good Epic could want -- it's got elves, sidhe, trolls, frost giants, Norse gods, changeling babies, witches, Viking invaders, tragically doomed incestuous lovers, patricide, fratricide, huge battles, magic voyages, cursed swords, raped prisoners, horrific torture....you name it and it's in there somewhere.Now, keep in mind that this book has less than 300 pages -- in fact, just barely over 200 pages in some editions.
Poul Anderson è stato capace di condensare in un unico volume gli elementi classici del fantasy con una valida infarinatura di mitologia norrena, cogliendo a piene mani dall'Edda di Snorri Sturluson. Un romanzo che gli appassionati di adult\heroic fantasy non possono assolutamente lasciarsi sfuggire. Cruento e caratterizzato da una visione disincatata del mondo, ricco di azione, sotterfugi, inganni e magia... Insomma non potrete non innamorarvene! 😍
A fast-moving, dark, bloody hero myth. Comparisons with Tolkien are inevitable (it was published the same year as The Fellowship of the Ring), but it has much more in common with Beowulf or The Tain: a grim tale of morally-ambiguous superhumans locked in a struggle to the death, told in high-flown prose that at its best has a certain cold majesty.
هذا الكتاب هو أحد الملاحم الفانتازية المغمورة، فقد صدر هذا الكتاب في نفس سنة صدور صحبة الخاتم الجزء 
And I am taken by how much this shares with  The Children of Húrin, not just in terms of its Skywalker-children-ickyness but also the sense of manipulation of the lives of the children of Orm and the sense that the world of faerie is fading, in this case by the introduction of the jealous and uncompromising White Christ who rewrites the rules of the world.I loved the language, which threaded the needle between a studious replication of Beowulf and a hamfisted reverse-the-words, sprinkle-the-archaism technique of lesser authors of the seventies and eighties.
There was just slight moments where a word choice--"zipped", "scrunched"--threw it all off, but these were overshadowed by tantalizing glimpses of an almost Lovecraftian worldview: "Darkness fell on the world, a living darkness in which tremendous presences stirred."
Brutal, romantic, and tragic. No cute hobbits.
