https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1016243.South_Riding
For me, there are two categories of books.
Such books are rare and precious.
And then there are the ones that make you feel as if the author had extended a hand and held yours, that for the duration of your reading, you found a mirror so perfect it validated everything you'd been and everything you wished to be.
This is such a book.
This is such a book.
We've got to have courage, to take our future into our hands.
If the system is unjust, we must reform the system.'Suffice it to say I've probably been looking for this book my whole life.

There are a large number of significant characters and the main characters don’t appear in large portions of the novel.
Holtby provides no neatly tied ends and happy endings and her characters sometimes have a difficult time of it, but there is still running through a sense of the need for the struggle to improve the lot of people especially through socialism and feminism; it isn’t a depressing book.
Holtby makes even her less savoury characters human with likeable qualities, but she leaves the reader to judge; the other characters not knowing all the picture make their own mistakes.
It is 1932 and Sarah Burton returns to Yorkshire as a newly appointed headmistress with a gift to teach and a desire to awaken interest in her young pupils.
Sarah finds her new role in the small town challenging as she encounters town politics and staff problems.
They cover a wide social range, but share a common love for their rural community.
Ambitions, hypocrisy, triumphs and failures are shared amongst the people of South Riding and their moments of passion, tragedy and hope strengthen their bonds as they face a world that is on the brink of change.
South Riding follows these characters (and more*--it’s a story about an entire community) over two years, with chapters alternating among various characters.There’s a lot going on in this book, and Holtby has a clean style that keeps the story moving and focused on the most interesting moments in the characters’ lives.
South Riding is set in Yorkshire in the first half of the 1930′s, focusing on the everyday lives of the people who live there.
In fact, they are what makes South Riding such a great read.
I also appreciated the fact that, although people struggle and fight with one another, there is no cruel, cackling villain in this book.
The characters go through hard times and experience tragedy, but that is because life is hard rather than because someone is plotting against them.
I’m sad to leave South Riding and it’s definitely a novel that I’ll be rereading in the future.
If you enjoy sweeping English novels with a pastoral setting and social commentary this book is definitely for you.
I would argue, South Riding falls into the same category.Richly written, with characters that come to life, this book, although a little slow at times, has quickly become a favorite of mine.I especially am intrigued by the personal life of the author.
Having researched a bit about Holtby and Brittain'a lives, especially during the First World War. South Riding, its themes (in particular those towards the end of the book) became even more meaningful and deep to me.
There is a large cast of characters, at the centre of which is Robert Carne, landowner and councillor, Sarah Burton, a new headmistress for the high school, and Mrs Beddows 72 Alderman, and great friend of Carne.
Mrs Beddows - a truly marvelous character - seems to be a portrait - at least in part of Winifred Holtby's mother, herself a local councillor who became (like Mrs Beddows) the first woman Alderman.This novel is actually quite sad, although there are many uplifting moments too.
The poignant story of Sarah and Robert Carne is the one at the centre of the novel, is wonderfully romantic on the one hand without ever descending into sentimentality.
I had been meaning to get around to reading this for ages, and now I'm sorry I waited so long.
Holtby takes a community in Yorkshire and, using the framework of its local government, builds up a narrative which tells the stories of many people in the community, all intertwined.
The characterization is simply brilliant; there are a lot of characters, but I never once lost track of who was who nor forgot anyone's particular plot thread.
Fortunately, Virago has reprinted at various times all of Holtby's other novels, which I will be tracking down soonest.
This book deals with the community of South Riding in the 1930s, and in it we encounter a variety of characters who are very different from each other, but who all have South Riding in common.
There is a great set of characters to keep track of, and only some of the chapters kept my attention 100%.
However, there is something nice and pleasant about reading of a community in which everyone knows everyone.
It definitely kept me entertained to read about certain characters and their destinies as well as character development, although I could have lived without all the overt morales towards the end of it.
Fantastic saga set in 1930s Yorkshire.The book is chockful of political and social drama - with truly memorable characters.Like the important women in the book -- Sarah Burton, the Headmistress; and Mrs. Beddows, the Alderman -- I was obsessed with Robert Carne. Symbol of a previous age, so noble and tragic!The entire book rang true, even if it did describe a world unfamiliar to me.I would happily read it again. Like all of the great novels, there is so much in it; one could hardly grasp it all on an initial reading.
South Riding covers two years in the life of a fictionalised borough in Yorkshire (though with a real name), and immerses you into the local politics and social life of the area.
This method of storytelling, if well done, can provide some truly profound insights into human nature, and it’s very well done indeed here, through some excellently drawn three dimensional main characters, and a huge cast of convincing and memorable minor characters.
Inevitably with this kind of multi-dimensional story of course readers will find themselves having to follow many different narrative threads tracing the stories of the characters, their struggles to lead their lives, and to deal with adversity.
Read this if you want to get lost in idyllic prose set in a neighborhood in old Yorkshire.
Be it Carne, a traditionalist who doesn't want to be pitied for his crumbling finances or Sarah Burton, the fiery headmistress who has modern reforms in mind yet hopelessly in love with her fiercest opponent, or Lydia Holly, who has to give up her education or Madame Hubbard who teaches young girls to dance ti ridiculous songs, every character will earn a place in your heart.
I must add this is the first book I have read on local government and workings of the village council in the countryside, hence was refreshing and informative.Half a chapter of romance that made me well up with an undescribable churning in heart is a testament to Holtby's brilliance.
Review included in my second half of 2016 round up on my blog: https://shouldacouldawouldabooks.com/...
Holtby was a spinster and lived in the era she was writing about and her mother was involved in local government so she knew of what she wrote.
All of the characters have chapters in the book that unfold as they relate to Sarah or to the local government.
Even though Sarah was a progressive, liberated 38-year-old she still wanted to love someone and becomes infatuated with Robert Carne, a Mr. Rochester like character, with an insane wife who is living in a care center.
His story dominates a lot of the book.
There are obvious echoes of Jane Eyre and Mr Rochester, Carne's wife is committed to an asylum and Sarah immediately sees the connection when she encounters Carne out riding early on in the novel..."So startled was she that for a moment she could say nothing, aware only of the tossing black neck of the horse, flecked by white foam, its white, rolling eyeballs, its black, gleaming, powerful flanks and the dark eyes challenging her from the white face of the rider...Into Sarah's irreverent and well-educated mind flashed the memory of Jane Eyre and Mr Rochester."Their fractious relationship reflects a community in turmoil where change is feared yet bound to happen and thus we see the balance of power within the local council shifting from the old and the conservative (Robert Carne) to the new and forward thinking, surprisingly coming from the staid Alderman Snaith whose name and slimy behaviour put me in mind of Severus Snape (Harry Potter).
(Certainly she was a talented enough writer that I don’t doubt her ability to create such a scene out of her imagination, but so much of this book feels personal to the author that I think it’s a possibility.) I love that Holtby shows us the inner lives of people from all walks of life and all circumstances—slumdwellers, middle class, crumbling aristocracy, the healthy, the infirm, the married, the single, politicians, journalists, teachers, students, adults, children—so that we as readers really get a feel for the character of the South Riding.
Sometimes you just get the feeling that while you  liked  a book on the first reading, you know you are going to develop a true love for it on future reads.
I groaned a little when my kindle edition started with a list of characters six pages long.
I didn't care much for it at the start, but by the end I was crying - totally invested in the characters.
If it wasn't for the fact that it's nearly 600 pages long I think I'd pick it up and start it all over again (well, that and the pile of still to be read library books staring at me).
I finished this at 4 this morning weeping with just how good it is (one of those that should be 6 stars) This will be one my books to hand out at airports.
Reminded me a little bit of "the Casual Vacancy", but that was just because I don't read books that deal with small-town government much.
I found that the story of cancer-struck Lily stopped - dropped out of the narration - a little too suddenly and because I really liked the woman, that's the one thing which pulled this down from a five star rating.
This is my favorite quote from the book:"And who are you to think you could get through life without pain?
I've had seventy years and more of time and there are plenty of things in my life still won't bear thinking of.
Neanche la fittizia contea di South Riding, nello Yorkshire, è risparmiata alla morsa della grande depressione degli anni Trenta del Novecento.
Ma, in modo forse maggiore, la contea tutta è interessata alla scelta della nuova direttrice  per la scuola femminile di South Riding.Ecco che sopraggiunge la nostra protagonista, rossi capelli e caviglie sottili, l'appassionata idealista (pro-femminista) Sarah Burton.
Personaggio dopo personaggio, casa dopo casa, Winifred Holtby ritrae tutta la comunità con i suoi pro e contro, ognuno con una sua storia, ognuno con un qualcosa da controllare – il tutto accompagnato da una verve audace e di chiara matrice progressista che accompagnerà anche i più scettici.Una lettura simpatica ed appagante con l’unico difetto di risultare pedante su alcuni paragrafi (avrei tolto sommariamente un centinaio di pagine).
Being a Yorkshire girl, born and bred as they say, I was looking forward to reading this book by fellow Yorkshire woman, Winifred Holtby.
Quite simply, she knew she was not entirely alone...It was as though, each of them having known love so intensely, even though not for each other, they had entered into some element greater than themselves...existed eternally within it, and being, thus transformed, became part of each other.'For Winifred Holtby, struggling in this life to help her fellow man, and then dying; this was not the end, but the beginning of a greater and more meaningful existence.
We are acquainted with the fear already coming from Germany and Italy, years before the start of World War 2.
(Much of the comments and fears are eerily similar to those heard over the past two weeks.) We see the lives of the poor, the socialists, the farmers and the politicians.
All these are explored as we look at snippets from the lives of about 10-15 people.
The author, who died before the publication of this book, allowed us to see the strengths and goodness, as well as the weaknesses and evil of each character, so that we get a balanced view of each person.
The novel flits among the local cast of characters--the crafty businessman, the handsome landowner, the local drunk, the smart girl, the matriarch of the county council--making each one so much more complex than they had to be.
Not because of a happy ending but because of its insistence on the universality of unhappy endings, and how we have to learn to live with that.
The vehicle of this wisdom is Alderman Beddows, a spritely woman of seventy and a character who will stick with me.
The ending of the book does get a little discursive with Lessons Learned, but I'll take it.
It is a long book with many chapters, but each chapter feels like a complete short story in itself, with its own mood, plot and characters.
The characters reappear in the various chapters and interact with the others and by the end a complete picture emerges of the people and places of the imaginary Yorkshire community of South Riding.
In the end, I was left with a feeling of hopefulness and a pleasure in being witness to a portion of these characters’ lives.
Most of the story revolves around Sarah Burton, the new headmistress of the local girls’ high school, and Robert Carne, a local landowner and member of the Council.
There are also many vivid secondary characters, including other Council members, high school students, and the women of the area.
Robert Carne is on the Board of Governors for Sarah’s high school.
At the end I thought the conversation between Sarah and Mrs. Beddows was so deep and insightful that I felt I had read a masterpiece.
But also read it because it’s everything a novel should be.
There's one Miss Sigglesthwaite, however, who's the Doomed Spinster, who was meant for a lifetime of research and learning and instead became a teacher, and is ill-adjusted to the work, but because of her position (she has to care for her mother) she can't simply quit her job and do what comes naturally to her.
He believed in me."Miss Sigglesthwaite is not treated fairly at all by the narrative.
All because she didn't realise early enough that she needed to be liked and had to make an effort to appear pretty even if she didn't care for pretty.
Questo libro mi ha sorpreso.
In più di un punto ha preso direzioni che non mi aspettavo.
Mi ha anche coinvolto e ha lanciato il suo messaggio senza cadere nel dogmatismo.
I personaggi sono vivi, per la maggior parte (non tutti) sono tratteggiati con la giusta dose di luci e ombre, e alla fine ci si appassiona alle loro storie.Quindi, nonostante NON mi sia piaciuto al 100% senza se e senza ma (anzi, sono perplessa soprattutto sul modo abbastanza precipitoso e bizzarro di sviluppare (view spoiler)[la storia d'amore (hide spoiler)], che pure alla fine sembra avere una rilevanza spropositata e ingiustificata - per quanto si era visto prima - nella vita della protagonista), e nonostante il voto più "giusto" sia 3, 3,5 stellette, premio queste qualità con un 4/5.
This was a much more thoughtful book than I expected, not at all a standard romance or saga. The motivations of even the least sympathetic characters are explored with kindness, and the unreturned love of a woman in her seventies for a much younger man is shown with great insight - as is the more passionate love of a younger woman for the same man.
3-4 stars.I cant quite decide yet :D
