https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19351043-nimona
This was so great! I love Noelle Stevenson's writing & art style. Can she just write a million more graphic novels please?
Amazing! I loved the strong, unique characters, the plot, the humor, the art, and everything else!
re-read in 2018I actually listened to a full-cast audio production of Nimona this time around, and while it wasn’t quite as enjoyable (the art is half of what makes it so awesome!) it was a fun listen. I’d recommend it if you don’t usually like graphic novels!first read in 2015hilarious, touching, with beautiful art and an interesting ending. Great for fans of Vicious by V.E. Schwab and Rainbow Rowell's Fangirl (because the Simon Snow vibes were strong, let's be real)
‘‘I can’t have a kid following me around all day.’’‘‘I’m not a kid. I’M A SHARK.’’  Pouahaha. What a story! What witty dialogs! Filled with humour, adventure, magic and friendship, it will certainly charm and entertain the hell out of you. This title used to be a DNF of mine, before I decided to give it a second shot. Glad I did! What made me stop reading it the first time around was the graphics, because this is a style that never appealed to me, but truth is, it just grows on you, as do the
‘‘I can’t have a kid following me around all day.’’‘‘I’m not a kid.
I’M A SHARK.’’
Pouahaha.
What a story!
What witty dialogs!
Filled with humour, adventure, magic and friendship, it will certainly charm and entertain the hell out of you.
This title used to be a DNF of mine, before I decided to give it a second shot.
Glad I did!
Ballister, you’ve got my admiration.
Goldenloin, I want your hair.
I want to see Ballister & Goldenloin kiss.
Notorious villain - Ballister Blackheart - gets a new sidekick to help him wreak havoc, obtain vengeance, and fight the Institution. But his new sidekick - Nimona - is a shapeshifter with a mysterious past and a mind of her own. Plus, he also has a love/hate relationship with his friend-turned-nemesis - Sir Ambrosius Goldenloin.Heroes & villains, science & magic, bloody battles & so many giggles...Well, I enjoyed it ;)Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr | Youtube
F*cking fabulous.
I'm always willing to pick up an Indie comic, especially one written by a name I recognize. This one did not disappoint.It's funny at times, sweet at times, pleasantly subversive without being heavy-handed or preachy. I'm reading through it with my little boy right now, and he's enjoying it too....
At first blush, Nimona is the tale of a precocious but powerful girl’s quest to apprentice herself to the villainous Lord Ballister Blackheart as he fights the forces of good and justice, led by the spectacularly appellated (yes, I just verbed “appellation”...deal with it) Sir Ambrosius Goldenloin.
Stevenson’s art perfectly suits the world, and she creates fully realized and rendered characters with both words and pictures.
It’s the perfect fusion of art and story, of pathos and humor, of grace and glee.
As a reader, I’m thankful that new media allows for so many ways for stories like this to be told and distributed, and for talented storytellers like Stevenson to find an audience.Okay, okay—enough with the sentimentality.
I loved it!This story follows Nimona, a shapeshifter, and Ballister Blackheart, a villain with a vendetta.They are partnering up as sidekick and supervillain, and are about to wreak some serious havoc.
Isn’t that the whole point of being a villain, that you don’t follow the rules?”I loved Nimona as a character, her enthusiasm, relatable humor, and her story really added depth to the plot.
I enjoyed reading about her and I would have loved it if Noelle Stevenson had added her journey to uncover the Anomalous Energy Enhancer.That ending left me in tears, I couldn’t believe it when Nimona didn’t get a happy ending.
Lord Ballister Blackheart is a dastardly villain. Well, not really. He could be with the right little push.Enter Nimona! Nimona shows up one day and announces that she is now his side kick. She has some kick ass powers of shape-shifting. She can turn into any living thing. Even other human forms. The only form she can't take is something inanimate. Nimona is primed to help Blackheart be the best super villain ever. If he would let her. She is ready to kill some people including the king. Hey, th
He could be with the right little push.Enter Nimona!
Nimona shows up one day and announces that she is now his side kick.
Nimona is primed to help Blackheart be the best super villain ever.
Hey, that's how kingdom's are taken over right?Blackheart's main nemesis is his old friend Sir Ambrosius Goldenloin and his buddies at the Institution of Law Enforcement.
Blackheart and Nimona have some fun times.Like playing board games together.
I liked Nimona even though she is even more bloodthirsty than I am.
Blackheart does well as the somewhat wussy villain and now I'm a convert to even this style of art.
Reasons Why This Graphic Novel is the Best 1. NimonaThis girl is my favourite thing in the entire world and if I could just get a book based solely off her adventures I’d be content for the rest of my life2. HumourTHIS. BOOK. IS. BLOODY. HILARIOUS.3. BlackheartDo not be fooled by his title of “villain,” Blackheart is a marshmallow and the Dad Friend.4. Villains !!! Is there any explanation needed, we all love a bunch of good anti-heroes 5. ActionThis graphic novel was action packed and honestly
1.	NimonaThis girl is my favourite thing in the entire world and if I could just get a book based solely off her adventures I’d be content for the rest of my life2.
BOOK.
ActionThis graphic novel was action packed and honestly the greatest thing ever6.
The ExtrasThese were just a collection of cute ish that’s supposed to make up for the UNWANTED ending(if these snippets haven’t convinced you to read the book then I don’t know what will)	Other than that.
Nimona’s character was the highlight of the book for me.I want more Nimona and Blackheart getting into trouble.
This was so much fun!Loved the humour and the characters!
What an absolute little gem of a story... this was like the definition of heartwarming and hilarious! I don't read a lot of graphic novels (ok, like none) but I absolutely LOVED this. It's this awesome mix of medieval + science/technology with magic, knights, dragons, and villains who... save the kingdom? The story was super fun, but THE CHARACTERS ARE SO WELL DONE TOO. Seriously check this out because it's straight up adorable.
That ending has me so confused but the art style of this is great and the humor was totally up my alley! But Nimona was definitely not the character I was expecting her to be, and that was kinda upsetting.
THIS BOOK WAS SO MUCH FUN. IT WAS ABSOLUTELY HILARIOUS AND I LOVED IT FOREVER AND EVER. Lord Blackheart was such a great, complex character, and Nimona was a star. Goldenloin was everything. I loved it. Re-reading immediately. Lending it to everyone I know.
Loved! Adorable characters with just the right amount of snark. I approve! Review to come.
I did not know about its history as a webcomic before sitting down to read it, and didn't know what to expect beyond the hype.
Judging from the title, I thought this story was going to be about Nimona first and foremost, so I expected to feel some level of attachment to her.
Their romance (and friendship) was the heart of the story, and I felt it didn't quite achieve what it could because it held back.Overall, I found Nimona to be a cute story, but it did not live up to the overwhelming amount of hype and I've found it to be forgettable since I've read it.
PERFECTION
"You can't just go around murdering people. There are rules, Nimona!"  Nimona was such a fluffy yet meaningful read. It proves as a light escape from reality and into the world of dragons, heroic laws, good villains, broken doors and mostly SHARKS!!! I loved the art-style and the use of so many literary devices within the words and graphics that allowed the story to fly off the pages and straight into my heart. ___________ The Story This was nowhere near what I expected it to be. I was so happi
I loved the art-style and the use of so many literary devices within the words and graphics that allowed the story to fly off the pages and straight into my heart.
Nimona  was originally a web-comic series, and the author/artist even put the development of the character and the art at the latter pages of the novel.
It showed me how hard it is to put an effective graphic novel together.
Because Nimona  is a different story for everyone, it acts as a shapeshifting device itself.
That's the great thing about comics or graphic novels.
Nimona es una jovencita cambiaformas que decide convertirse en la ayudante de un temible súpervillano -con un oscuro pasado, por cierto-.
Además, le da una patada a los estereotipos.
Ay, en serio, no todas las mujeres tenemos cintura de avispa y pechos gigantescos.
La protagonista es una chica bajita, con caderas y muslotes, y no olvidéis que su corte de pelo es dios.
La cosa no acaba ahí, el malo (que no es tan malo, ni los buenos tan buenos) tiene un brazo robótico.
Dedicado a todas esas "monster-girls".
P.D: Que alguien me traiga una pizza a domicilio.
I can't believe I waited so long to read this! 💗 Nimona just turned my bad day around! 💗Side note: I want to be a shark! 😂
Actual Rating: 3.5 Stars So this is definitely one of the cutest graphic novels I've read in 2017.I first want to highlight how great of a character Nimona is.
I mean, I'm not sure what else you could want in a main character?
Anyway, Nimona herself is definitely one of the high points in this comic & I love how her relationship develops with Ballister Blackheart, aka local, reluctant evil villain.
I would've liked just a bit more from this, but I really enjoyed my time with these characters & I'm glad I can finally stick this on my 'Read' shelf!
"I'M A SHAAAAAAARK!"
3.5 stars.
All I do is reading graphic novels and drinking tea these days.
I’m pretty sure some shape-shifter took possession of me, wrote all these evil plans to take over the world (wow, they’re specific)changed my coffee into water sorry, tea and forgot to turn off the TV.
Is that a zombie I’m seeing ?
Gosh.
Ridiculous.
All that’s missing is a morally ambiguous supervillain (yes, I know how stupid that sounds, but bear with me, ‘kay ?) seeking revenge against a dystopian-like organization and I’d almost believe something’s off.
I might write a real review as soon as I’m myself again.
*4.5/5Fantastic! Definitely a book that lived up to the hype.
Let's just say it's more like Batman and Joker.Together, they do whatever it is villainous duos do, create chaos and mayhem, and work on fulfilling personal vendettas against the Institution and their #1 hero Sir Goldenlion.Though I am not that accustomed to reading graphic novels anymore, I found Nimona to be such a fun read I would no doubt revisit often for a quick laugh.
The development was adorably well done.The story takes a darker turn as Blackheart and Nimona graduate from petty acts of villainy to full blown atrocities.
I was too sad.Lord Blackheart is a "villain." But actually not.
She is a very powerful shapeshifter and she wants to help Blackheart take down the Institution....THE GOOD: - Nimona is chubby.
- Nimona is a high-energy, bloodthirsty, murdurous young female - but also cute and at times vulnerable.
- Nimona's personality sparks brilliantly with Blackheart's more staid, cautious, moral, and science-obsessed one.
- Gay characters and homosexual love as a great and completely normal thing - this is an actual baseline of the novel, NOT a sideplot.
[4.5 Stars] This one was super cute and even made me a bit emotional! Definitely a fantastic read!
MY HEART! Dragons! Kitties! Magic! Gay! Science! Friendship! ALL THE THINGS! Humorous and heartwarming, this is a perfectly realised world where science and magic co-exist quite happily, and a dark hearted villain gains an adorably dangerous new sidekick - Nimona. A shape-changing girl with a strange past Nimona shakes up the villain's routine and forces both he, the town, and us, to reconsider just what makes someone a bad guy. And she's great. And there's DRAGONS.
AMEI. Uma estória linda sobre compaixão e amizade, contada através de um humor leve e gostoso. Brinca com o clichê dos vilões e mocinhos de uma forma muito interessante!Essa graphic novel é obrigatória na estante de quem ama esse formato.Minha única reclamação é que não tinha mais. Leria 800 páginas das aventuras do Blackheart e da Nimona. Li tão rápido que agora estou me sentindo perdida... Quero mais Nimona agoraaaaa!!
