https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1800287.The_Biggest_Bear
I ended up really enjoying this little book. At first, I was getting upset that the boy wanted to kill a bear and it turned out so differently. It was a good story with a good ending. The art work looked a little like pencil drawings in places blended with paint, but however it was made, it was lovely illustrations. A work of art on every page. They are black and white. You know what they say about a boy and his bear.The nephew enjoyed reading this book too. He had fun with it. He was a fan.
The Biggest Bear by Lynd Ward is the Caldecott Medal-winning story from 1952 of Johnny Orchard, a kid who wants to kill a bear so he can put up a pelt on his barn like other farmers in the area have.
As one would inevitably expect, problems ensue, and what do farmers expect will happen with (even quite domesticated) bears?
I won't say exactly what happens, but I was relieved about the resolution, let's just say.I read this because I reread Ward's woodcut graphic novel of 1929, God's Man, and was curious to see what else he had done: well, something like 200 books, written and/or illustrated.
The Biggest Bear by Lynd Ward is a children's picture book about a boy named Johnny Orchard. Johnny embarks on a journey to find a bearskin for the family barn and comes home with an unexpected friend.The book is full of black and white, realistic illustrations. We loved the adventure and emotion. Follow along in this exciting and engaging story to see what Johnny will do with his new found joy as time changes everything.5*****
The most depressing Caldecott winner I've come across so far, and an excellent illustration of how times change.
Young Johnny sets out to shoot a bear, as it is embarrassing that his farm is the only one in town without a bearskin tacked up on the wall of the barn.
He tries to turn it loose in the woods, but it keeps coming back home.
But along the way it ends up getting caught in a trap, set by men who are capturing animals for a zoo in the city.
So the bear goes to the zoo and lives happily ever after.
**** Caldecott Medal (1953) ****The illustrations are quite well done indeed. However, the story itself regarding the problem with a pet bear and its' resolution left me dry. Another example of a book from another era that doesn't fit into the modern sensibility... Although it might still fly in the "Red States."
Johnny does indeed find a bear but it's just a cute, little cub and Johnny and the bear become fast friends where Johnny feeds him maple sugar and carries him back home like an infant.
And of course, the bear can't adapt and continues to return to Johnny's home until it's determined that Johnny must shoot him.
It's funny that the men in the community would nominate poor, little Johnny to kill his friend.
Johnny is happy to see his friend in a cage where he can give him maple sugar through the bars of the cage.
I wanted to like this story, especially once the bear cub comes home and is a family pet of sorts.
I was so upset by this book's ending.
The bear grows large and becomes a nuisance so the only the solution is to shoot him?
When shooting him is just too hard to do you trick him into a trap and send him off to the zoo?
No way!
Not a good story here.
Illustrations are in black and white and appear in full pages that mirror text.
They are fairly realistic and well done, but this story was not for me.
The Biggest Bear by Lynd Ward is the Caldecott Medal winning story from 1952 of Johnny Orchard, a boy living in a rural farm area who is embarrassed that his family has no bearskin tacked to their barn.
Johnny is told by his father to take the bear out and kill it.
The Biggest Bear ends up in a zoo where Johnny can visit him.
The contrast between Johnny and the Biggest Bear is striking.
Sensitive readers may not appreciate the hunting and zoo components.For ages 4 to 6, Caldecott, historical fiction, bears, animals, pets, love, hunting, responsibility, families, farm themes, and fans of Lynd Ward.
This is a perfect example of a beautiful book that has not aged well.
So, Ward gives us perfectly crafted illustrations that bring us back to a different world, but we can't wrap our brains around the idea that a little kid could and should tote around a shotgun.
This book is beautiful, but it's now more disturbing than playful.
But perhaps this gives us a chance to consider how much has changed and even talk about which changes have or haven't been for the better!I do love the middle section of the book where the bear keeps returning.
I suppose it would be a good story to read to children with NRA-loving parents.
Like many of these early Caldecotts, it is a product of its time, and while today the idea of boys going around in the woods with guns hunting bears is probably uncomfortable, if not repugnant, to many of us I realize that for the era this was written, and the even earlier (I think) era it was depicting, there was nothing "wrong" with it.
Very, very slowly I am working my way through all the Caldecott winners.
A kid is angry because everyone else in the neighborhood has a big bear skin drying on their barn, and he thinks this makes his father look like a wimp.
He then apparently takes the cub from its family, thinking a bear will make a great pet suddenly, a concept his family does not choose to disabuse him of.
Then it starts into the neighbors' fields, so the kid tries to ditch the bear three times, only for it to come back every time.
So then he goes out to SHOOT HIS PET BEAR.
Set in Canada in the early 20th century, this story is about a bear problem.
Specifically, young Johnny Orchard's bear problem.
I won't give away the plot, but I will gush over the illustrations.
Lynd Ward won the Caldecott Medal for The Biggest Bear in 1953.
His illustrations are completely realistic yet unique.
Each animal on every page shows a distinct but unostentatious emotion that makes me laugh out loud but still leaves the animals' faces looking lifelike.
It was a pleasure to read out loud.The Biggest Bear belongs on our family's short list of stories that completely engage both kids (ages 8 and 5).
5* art3* storyNot politically correct, that's for sure. (This is a red alarm book for any parent who doesn't want their kid to play with toy guns.) A young boy goes out to shoot a bear! I wondered what Squirt would think of that, and he didn't blink an eye, nor did he ask to go out bear hunting. So I don't know. Is it a bad book? It wasn't the best written story, I can say that, and Squirt wasn't that interested. The illustrations, however - fabulous.
Ward won the Caldecott for the detailed, sepia-toned, drawings that accompany this story.Johnny Orchard lives on a farm at the far end of the valley, near a big woods.
I was also somewhat dismayed by (view spoiler)[a scene where Johnny has to take his bear to the woods to kill it because it has become a nuisance.
Don’t worry, he doesn’t ever actually do this, but he has every intention of doing so,  (hide spoiler)] and I find that disturbing in a children’s book.The illustrations are wonderfully detailed.
If I were rating the illustrations alone, I’d give the book 4****.
In my honest opinion, I do not visualize this book as a children’s book.
So for me this is not really the best book to read to a child.This book could make a good read for a child that is not impressionable or of an older age.
This book also had the great point of teaching children the problems that pets can bring to them or their neighbors.
Every build wants a pet, yet they are not well acquainted with the problems that may bring to them.
This book excels in showing said problems to a child.
The cover art on this shiny new copy of an "old" Caldecott winner reminded me of Robert McCloskey's illustrations (which I love more than his stories), so I checked it out.
I love the old fashioned feel, the big furry bear, the humor in the illustrations, and the ending.
And I think maybe Lynd Ward and Robert McCloskey are the same person.
Others reviewers have called this book "ugly" and criticized the ending, saying the bear will be "underfed" and not cared for.
That bear looks pretty well-fed and happy to me in the last illustration.
ugly book.little johnny is jealous that all the other kids daddys have killed a bear.
one day johnny is in the forest and finds a bear cub, feeds it and takes it home.
the baby bear grows up, steals food, raids the other farms and is generally uncivilized.
but damn, the bear runs away, fortunately it falls into a cage set up by the city zoo.everybody lives happily ever after.
the bear being gawked at and underfed, johnny grows up to become a life member of the nra and fly alaska govenors in helicopters.
Dark. And I don't mean Pokémon dark like, "You have no father, go out into the world and force animals to fight each other to settle conflicts. Don't make eye contact, or you'll get into a fight." I mean like Old Yeller dark. (view spoiler)[The friendly biggest bear is one deus ex machina away from bleeding out from a gunshot wound inflicted by his best friend in the whole wide world at one point. Damn. That's even more upsetting than the kid wandering the world by himself with a gun. Different times! (hide spoiler)]
Mixed emotions reading this - as an adult. Interested to see what the kids make of it. Do you shoot the bear? befriend the bear? capture it? put it in a small cage in the zoo? Nothing to do with what the bear wants - he just wants to be where the food is. It would certainly be edited differently now in 2010 to 1952 - but there's something about the compact language and sepia illustrations that are appealing still today.
This book upset my personal sensibilities so my rating is highly subjective. Perhaps had I not grown up how I did, I'd feel differently, appreciating the illustrations enough to give it at least one more star. As it is, I cannot. For more: http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/12/fiv...
Johnny has no idea what he is getting himself into when he brings a bear cub home. The bear eats his way through the neighbors' crops and storehouses and refuses to stay in the woods when Johnny tries to set him free. Lynd Ward finds a practical solution for the bear and Johnny, but I didn't care much for the ending. Caldecott winner.
This book turned into quite a thought provoking book to the children I read (work with), which I was pleased about. It kept them engaged, the illustrations are good and isn't a run-of-the-mill feel good book, where everyone skips away in the sunset happy.....Got us all discussing what we would do differently, so for that reason it's worth a read, I feel.
This book is about kindness, compassion, and responsibility, and how the three intersect in sometimes complicated ways. This book would probably not have been written today.
The poor bear. What an awful ending! Caldecott Medal Book, 1953Favorite illustration: page 19Favorite line: Nothing stands out
I loved this story. The style really reminded me of the Billy and Blaze books by C.W. Anderson.
So, in the end your options are shoot the bear or send him to the zoo...really kinda depressing.
For example, when Johnny and his father decided that there was only one thing to do, they didn't actually say that Johnny was going to have to shoot the bear, but they illustrated it in the pictures instead.
Death is a hard thing to comprehend for some people so it really depends on the age range and self control of the person reading the book.With that said, I still think this book portrays a good message about how important friendship is and the power of friendship.
I personally find this disgusting on a few levels, beginning with the first page which shows Johnny standing, hand in pocket and smiling, all of about 7-9 years old - holding a rifle.
(This a great opportunity for talking with your kid(s) about feeling humiliated, what is "worth" feeling this way, etc.) So, little Johnny goes off into the woods to prove his manhood.
if they so chose.Our boy Johnny finds a bear cub and not only feeds said wild animal but takes him home.
Johnny leaves "his" bear in the woods and the bear, surprise surprise, follows him home.
This book is a magnificent read aloud with important material that can be adapted and worked upon in class but it can be “difficult” to read if children are used to books with colorful texts and happier plots.
This book is certainly high quality as it provides a layered and universal appeal, the main characters (Johnny Orchard and Big Bear) are easy to identify and resonate with the audience.
I would recommend this book if you are doing a lesson on the importance of caring for animals but I would be wary of reading it to “sensitive” children.
