https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459119.Selected_Poems
Many of these poems were too sexual for my tastes in poetry, but I suppose I should have expected that from the author of Lady Chatterly's Lover. There were quite a few poems with themes of death, oblivion and humanity, which I mostly enjoyed, but I wasn't a fan of the tortoise sex and elephant sex and whale sex....
So I found a lot to like in this volume, like "Wedding Morn," "After the Opera," "Snake," "Humming-Bird," and "The Elephant is Slow to Mate." Because, oh yes, Lawrence's preoccupation with sex does not stop at the human, no.
The same hunting imagery that isn't that remarkable in the beginning of the poem (when it's about actual hunting) becomes hot and powerful when applied to sex.So I think I could find quite a lot to like about Lawrence, as long as I ignore his dickbag tendencies.
There is a timeline of D.H. Lawrence's life, but that would have been more meaningful if I knew when each poem was written.Three stars for the poetry.

One of my favorites, recalling the story of Persephone and Hades (a small portion below):  And in Sicily, on the meadows of Enna,  She thought she had left him;  But opened around her purple anemones,  Caverns,  Little hells of colour, caves of darkness,  Hell, risen in pursuit of her; royal, sumptuous  Pit-falls...And the opening to "The Wild Common":  The quick sparks on the gorse bushes are leaping,  Little jets of sunlight texture imitating flame;  Above them, exultant, the peewits are sweeping:  They are lords of the desolate wastes of sadness their screaming proclaim  Some of them didn't really speak to me, like his poems about mosquitoes and peaches.
But the ones that did stayed in my head like favorite songs.
3.5 if it were possible. all gorgeous in their writing, some - being so enigmatic and intuitive - are a little difficult to understand but nonetheless pleasant to read. oddly enough if it was often these subjective ones i enjoyed more. while they are short they're still so expressive and personal, i'm almost jealous of his genius in word choice. lawrence has such a way with words i'm sure many people - including myself - could only dream of. i too frequently find myself lost in this book, and i don't mind a bit.
For many years I have perused this book of selected poems over and over again. I never get tired just opening the book at random and reading whatever is before me. Though I do have many favorites like "Whales not weep not," "The Man of Tyre," and "Self-Pity," there is just so many interesting poems in this book. They cover a wide variety of experiences rather than being bogged down in the same thing, much like my own writing which is probably why I enjoy Lawrence so much.
Lawrence was, in my opinion, a much better poet than he was a novelist or even writer of short stories. The sequence of love poems he wrote shortly after meeting Frieda has few equals in 20th century literature. In the months leading up to his early death at age 42 he wrote poetry of such visionary force and strangeness one is almost tempted to posit the existence of something like a "premature late style" --Beethoven, told at 40 he was dying, composing the great late quartets...
Whenever I read D.H. Lawrence’s Poetryby Gerardo Pachecosomething dark breaks in melike when the sun enters into the world of swamps, marshes and darknessi can feel the rays breaking everything away making channels through my black heartLawrence’s word carved channels into my pomegranate heart his loyal follower
Been lost in these pages many times. Lawrence's poetry is too often forgotten in favour of his novels despite his way with words poetically being potentially far more pleasing. This selection of poems will not disappoint! Highly recommended!
I unexpectedly enjoyed this book. I'd like to think of this as a book of poetry for men that don't know what the big deal is about women and poetry. Okay, I could have written this better but just go ahead and read it.
Read this when I was a young teenager, inspired a lifelong interest in poetry.
The Ship of DeathINow it is autumn and the falling fruitand the long journey towards oblivion.The apples falling like great drops of dewto bruise themselves an exit from themselves.And it is time to go, to bid farewellto one's own self, and find an exitfrom the fallen self.IIHave you built your ship of death, O have you?O build your ship of death, for you will need it.The grim frost is at hand, when the apples will fallthick, almost thundrous, on the hardened earth.And death is on the air like a smell of ashes!Ah!
There is only one evil, to deny life----Love is like a flower, it must flower and fade; if it doesn’t fade, it is not a flower,          it’s either an artificial rag blossom, or an immortelle, for the cemetery.----Tell me a word               that you’ve often heard,               yet it makes you squint               if you see it in print!
Tell me a thing               that you’ve often seen,               yet if put in a book               it makes you turn green!
Tell me what’s wrong               with words or with you               that you don’t mind the thing               yet the name is taboo.

If you love art, mid-century Disney movies and culture, and strong, creative women who push through barriers, you'll like this book!
Birds, Beasts and Flowers is by far the winner, here. The later work was a mixture of pompous abstraction (Love, Death, the soul) and an old man writing angry letters to the editor.
Really good poetry until he ruined himself with free verse. Dialect poetry is always awful, so I skipped that, and I stopped reading once he stopped writing actual verse.
This book was a wonderful experience. I enjoy reading something else from on author that I love. I have never ready poetry from him before. Some parts weren't my cup of tea, some I adored.
Medlars and Sorb-ApplesI love you, rotten,Delicious rottenness.I love to suck you out from your skin
Some of the poems in this collection rank among the most astonishing and beautiful I have ever read, and would easily earn a five-star rating.
However, a smaller group still are not only incredibly ugly as pieces of art, but reflect an astonishing ugliness in Lawrence's emotional relationship with the world and in the internal construction of his political and moral reality.
It is perhaps a credit to Lawrence's dark imagination that such strong terms can be found for a poem that does little more in a literal sense than upbraid a small, ugly New Mexico pug; it does no credit to his humanity, however.Worth three stars on the strength of the best; could never earn more, because parts of it made me want to get in the shower and scrub my skin raw.
What a collection!
it contains some poems that may make little impression on you (or that may even make a thumbs-down impression.) But ahh!
It also brings some all-time-favorite, bookmark-so-you-can-reread-at-will poems.
Nature poems, workmen's poems, erotic poems, and one completely dear poem about "Baby Running Barefoot."I admit that before encountering this collection, my general impression of Lawrence was: testosterone-and-sexual-braggadocio-rich.
After reading these poems, I see that-- well yes, that was partly true.
There's a bit of hypermanly sexual politicking.
But there is much more of observing nature, celebrating life-- and even some wry humor.
And then-- those adorable bare baby feet!

An apparently long out of print edition of Lawrence's Selected Poems I found in a used bookstore with a valuable introduction by Kenneth Rexroth in which he identifies Lawrence as a "minor prophet" as opposed to a "major poet", qualifying that distinction with this important caveat: "Like Blake and Yeats, his is the greater tradtion." Rexroth also contends that Lawrence was the author of some of the "greatest imagist poems ever written." After re-revisiting such classic poems as Snake, Tortoise Gallantry, Piano, and Ship of Death, it is hard not to agree.
and the earth is alive, and ready to shake off his fleas.and the stars are ready with stones to throw in the faces of men.and the air that blows good breath in the nostrils of peopleand beastsis ready to blow bad breath upon them, to perish them allquetzalcoatl looks down on mexicobecause lawrence is genius, although i guess that is insufficient a term. his words have feet and elbow and navel. and his poetry has population
I chose to read Lawrence simply to read a wider range of poetry; I was expecting to enjoy very little of it. However, I was pleasantly surprised. Though some of his poems could be inappropriate material, I still found I greatly enjoyed his style and that many of his were not what everyone makes them out to be. If you are worried about the content, you may need to be cautious of a few. But if you can set those aside, you may not be disappointed to fight passed them.
Overall very good. For me it was best around the middle, starting from the "creatures" section 'Mosquito', the Tortoises section especially. I also liked many in the Pansies 1928 section; 'Fidelity', 'Nottingham's New University', 'Self-Protection', and 'Won't it be Strange -?' is particularly interesting, it seems to be about a woman who gives birth to a bird.
Definitely some confusing and odd poems from D. H. Lawrence's extensive collection; particularly ones wherein he uses dialect to influence the meaning (i.e. 'Violets').Despite this, the poetry contained within is, as one would expect from Lawrence, on the whole of a superb quality and well worth reading. Not my favourite poet (nor author) but still a jolly good one!
Good collection of DHL poems but not exhaustive...several DHL gems not included here, to my dismay. BUT forced me to read beyond my DHL favorites...many appreciated discoveries, specifically the work from his early years.Big fan of the "Sign of a Man Who Is..." trilogy.
Some poems were beautiful (The Mess of Love) while others seemed like excerpts from Lawrence's novels. Overall, it is a fantastic collection of poems on love, domesticity and the responsibility of submitting to one’s sexual appetites.
Trust not the anthology that has space for Prufrock but not Lawrence's 'Snake.'
