https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6181.If_This_Is_a_Man_The_Truce
The camp becomes then a sort of theological enactment of the idolatry of power.
Theological because absolute power is how God is defined in all Western religions; idolatrous because if this is so, the only response possible is relentless (and ultimately futile) participation in the hope of stealing the smallest bit of this power in order to survive.
Could it be that our idea of God as absolute power creates the idolatrous ideal of the deification of man through power; and through that ideal fosters the camp as its apotheosis?
And even if some proof should remain and some of you survive, people will say that the events you describe are too monstrous to be believed – they will say they are the exaggerations of Allied propaganda and will believe us, who will deny everything, and not you.”This is such a stunning statement.
Reading it in the 1980s I was thinking well, at least Primo Levi and all the other great writers and historians have made sure that this greatest of horror stories has been documented and believed.
Reading the same speech 20 years later, I'm not so sure.
Now we have many people telling us well, you know, the Holocaust was just one amongst many - they happen all the time.
It's not that my feelings are ambiguous, or even that I can't find the right words; my problem is that it created such an emotional and intellectual response from me, that I'm finding it difficult to know where to start, or how much of it really belongs in a review.This is actually two books in one: "If This is a Man" recounts Primo Levi's experience of entering and living on one of the Auschwitz concentration camps, and "The Truce" follows his struggle to return home after leaving the camp.
This pair of books are the Italian Primo Levi's autobiographical account of his time in the Auschwitz complex of camps in If this is a Man which was written soon after his return to Italy. It is as harrowing as The Truce, covering his liberation and roundabout return to Italy, is cheering. That journey undertaken at a time when Europe was covered in refuges and displaced persons. First task - find shoes you can walk in, second task - find a market.Completely captivating and heart wrenching writing.
Sorrowful turmoil ......
This book is beyond any possible rating. It is, I believe, the book that says the definitive word about holocaust and about human cruelty. After this, nothing else can be said and no explanation can be given to what men can do to other men.
If this is a Man is a fantastic book and one that really did need to be written, not only so it could be read but because Levi needed to write it in part to come to terms with what happened to him.
However, I was possibly more fascinated by the little told story of what happened in Europe after the truce was called and liberation came to the death camps.
Primo Levi uses "The Truce" to describe how difficult it was to return home and makes a strong case demonstrating surviving the arbeitlager was just the first step in a longer battle for liberation.
Διάβασα μόνο το "If this is a man/Εάν αυτό είναι ο ανθρωπος". Το βρήκα εξαιρετικό. Γραμμένο με σκοπό να ενημερώσει, να μιλήσει στον αναγνώστη για την ζωή στο στρατόπεδο συγκέντρωσης και όχι για να σοκάρει και να κερδίσει την συμπάθεια μας. Η γραφή είναι πολύ καλή, βρισκεις συχνά λυρικές προτάσεις κρυμμένες μέσα σε παραδοσιακά γραμμένες παραγράφους.Συμπάθησα πολύ τον συγγραφέα. Μου άρεσε πολύ η στάση του να δικαιολογεί κάποιες πράξεις των φυλακισμένων λέγοντας πολύ σοφα πως κανεις δεν μπορεί να μιλήσει για ηθικες πράξεις στην αντίθετη πλευρά του συρματος.Το προτείνω.
If I could I would make this book required reading for everyone over 18. It's not that long and it's not that depressing. Levi recounts events that must not be forgotten, but he does so with a spirit and humanity that I have never found in other prisoner of war type stories.
A book about a concentration camp survivor is never going to be light reading and some people don't want to tackle such heavy topics.
Here's some points that I hope encourage you to pick it up- The chapters are nice small bite sized chunks- While harrowing in content, it is not gratuitously graphic- The writing style is beautiful- There are interesting facts about camp life, not usually documented - Characters are well written and fascinatingThe second part of the book, Levi's return journey, is an aspect that I had not read about before.
To those who want to know more, continue by reading The Truce.
Ne pas chercher à comprendre Quanto è avvenuto non si può comprendere, non si deve comprendere, perché comprendere è quasi giustificare… Ma se comprendere è impossibile, conoscere è necessario.Non trovo parole adeguate per esprimere il mio commento a questa testimonianza di Primo Levi. Colpisce la razionalità di questo grande Uomo, che non indugia in giudizi e accuse, non usa toni recriminatori né accattivanti, non cerca pathos. Non è necessario. Applica il semplice metodo scientifico, cui la s
Colpisce la razionalità di questo grande Uomo, che non indugia in giudizi e accuse, non usa toni recriminatori né accattivanti, non cerca pathos.
Non è necessario.
330): Nello scrivere questo libro, ho assunto deliberatamente il linguaggio pacato e sobrio del testimone, non quello lamentevole della vittima né quello irato del vendicatore: pensavo che la mia parola sarebbe stata tanto più credibile ed utile quanto più apparisse obiettiva e quanto meno suonasse appassionata; solo così il testimone in giudizio adempie alla sua funzione, che è quella di preparare il terreno al giudice.
The reader is the judge.The passage which made the biggest impression on me is where Levi talks about the camp musicians, playing the same songs everyday when the slaves go out to and come back from work.
Levi writes that even years later, hearing these innocent songs made the blood freeze in the bodies of the survivors.
The song in itself is not evil, the composer is not evil, even the musicians playing the songs in the camp are not evil.
But still all the lingering horrors of the camp will be connected to and unleashed by a simple, harmless melody.
If you prefer reading short and long paragraphs of descriptions with innumerable good words and sense of humor, this book is for you.I couldn’t help wondering what he meant by this sentence: “… It (the announcement of their return) came in the theatre and through the theatre, and it came along the muddy road, carried by a strange and illustrious messenger.” (p.
416) I would leave you to read how they knew it in the theatre in the book itself; the following three excerpts would reveal my point, the first being a complete paragraph, the second and the third being partial: The next morning, while the Red House was already buzzing and humming like a beehive whose swarm is about to leave, we saw a small car approach along the road.
Brutal și cutremurător. Obligatoriu de citit măcar la liceu pentru a înțelege coșmarul creat în timpul războiului. Îl citesc a doua oară pe Primo Levi și cred că volumul acesta de memorii, apropiat cumva de roman, e unul dintre cele mai bune și puternice pe acest subiect.
The book ends with an excellent "Afterword".
I recommend this edition.This book is quite different from other holocaust books, by its very lack of emotion.
It is a clear statement of what exactly happened to the author, both in the camp (If This is a Man) and afterwards on his travels home to Turin, Italy (The Truce).
In the "Afterword" the author answers questions that readers have repeatedly asked.
This is a perfect ending to the book since you see how the author reasons after living through the experiences described.
He knew exactly where he stood on every question.
One of the most important books in post-war literature. It's vital to keep in mind what happened in Auschwitz because Nazism is not dead and buried, far-right groups spring up everywhere nowadays. Unbelievable as this may seem, some people have either forgotten or never cared to find out. I read this in conjunction with Hannah Arendt's The Origins of Totalitarianism (which I haven't finished) where Arendt describes the reasons why Jews were singled out by the Nazis. Another important book!
I was bought this as a Christmas present from a friend and was told simply: "No one should go on without heaving read this book".
From start to finish Primo kept me drawn in by his fantastic use of language and the way he can put a very human face to a very inhuman act.
This part is just as compelling as the first with the same running theme, a man trying to find his way whilst being bombarded with obsticles at every corner.
To quote my friend: "No one should go on without having read this book".
Vital reading for all humans.
Survival in Auschwitz; And, the Reawakening: Two Memoirs (Auschwitz Trilogy #1-2), Primo Levi, Stuart J. Woolf (Translator)
This is a powerful story of Primo Levi who was imprisoned in Auschwitz.
I’m giving it 3 stars, since I felt that his writing style was confusing and tedious.
I believe that this is the first holocaust account that I have read that has been written from an objective, rather detached and unemotional point of view, or at least the first that I can remember.
I know that if I had gone through all those horrors, there is no way in God’s green earth that I could have felt the same way.
Some of my favorite quotes:"One of the most important things I had learnt in Auschwitz was that one must always avoid being a nobody.
В него се четеше същия срам, който ни беше известен, срамът, който ни заливаше след селекциите и всеки път когато трябваше да присъстваме или да понесем някакво безчестие – срам, който немците не познаха, срамът, който праведният изпитва за чуждата вина и угризението, че такава вина съществува, че се е сместила безвъзвратно в света на нещата, и че добрата му воля се е оказала нищожна или недостатъчна за отбрана.Така че за нас дори часът на свободата удари тежко и приглушено и изпълни душите ни едновременно с радост и с мъчително чувство на срам, поради което ни се искаше да измием съвестта и спомените си от мръсотията, утаена в тях; и на мъка, защото чувствахме, че не може да се случи нищо тъй добро и тъй чисто, та да заличи миналото ни; че белезите на оскърблението ще останат завинаги у нас и в събитията, на които всеки бе присъствал, и в местата, където това бе ставало, и в спомените, които щяхме да разказваме.
How could this be anything but harrowing? And yet the author has survived, kept some portion of humanity about him, the tiniest shred. Necessary.
Due colossali opere racchiuse in un unico libro che altro non è che la sconvolgente e struggente testimonianza, raccontata in prima persona, del ritorno a casa di Primo Levi (e del suo peregrinare in giro per l'Europa) dai campi di concentramento nazisti. Bisogna leggerlo per capire (almeno in parte e per quanto possibile) come può un uomo privato di tutto, anche e soprattutto della sua dignità, riuscire a perdonare i suoi carnefici e a fare ogni sforzo affinché non venga dimenticato ciò che è stato fatto quando il genere umano ha smarrito il lume della ragione...[http://rosatoeu.blogspot.it/2015/05/s...]
The second or third or fourth time I have read it. One of the most important works of the 20th century. Still stunned by how people keep on going, in the face of a bottomless abyss. Exhilarating, inspirational, full of an unfathomable spirit.
This book is one of the best books I’ve read so far, and every day you just want to get more and more involved with Levi.
They all knew they were going to die, in a matter of time, but it was better to make their last time on earth the least unpleasant possible.So, you start to robe the miserable people in the same condition as you, because you need to find a spoon to eat, or you need a better shirt… Or the smarter ones, that robe “the system” in all possible ways in order to get more bread or soup (the currency on the Lager).
I read this book as an undergraduate in 1992, and in those days had the luxury of suiting myself timewise...
I started in the morning and read through the day: I don't think I moved from my sagging armchair until it was too dark to read, and I had to get another loo roll for soaking up the copious weeping.
Nearly twenty years on, the narrative still haunts me: it's every bit as breathtaking in translation as in the original, which is truly rare.
This is a desert island book that I would never leave home without: a manual for humanity and a study in hope.
How can I even think that I can pass judgement on this in a literary sense?
It would be wrong.Quite simply the rawest and most moving book I have ever - and probably will ever - read.
Not just because of the personal experiences that Primo describes, but also for the inconceivable way in which he rises above the inconceivable evil.The end of the books contains a list of the questions he was often asked after writing the book and his answer that he doesn't hate Germans because that is the root of the evil that he endured, is incredible.
Se questo è un uomo lettura dal 09 al 15 marzo 2015 La crudeltà dei campi di concentramento non ha eguali nella storia dell'umanità, nonostante tutto ogni volta mi meraviglio ancora di come sia stato possibile per menti umane arrivare a concepire una cosa del genere. E non penso ci sia altro da dire, libri del genere non hanno bisogno di ulteriori commenti.
4.5/5 'Hier ist kein warum' (there is no why here)It was a naïve hope, like all those that rest on too sharp a division between good and evil, between past and future, but it was on this that we were living. For reasons obvious to those who have been paying attention, I've been focusing more on Jewish people in my reading than I had been previously. This particular dearth in the past has everything to do with my continued fumbling through the biases of my appetites when it comes to the written w
In every part of the world, wherever you begin by denying the fundamental liberties of [humanity], and equality among people, you move toward the concentration camp system, and it is a road on which it is difficult to halt.He told me his story, and today I have forgotten it, but it was certainly a sorrowful, cruel and moving story; because so are all our stories, hundreds of thousands of stories, all different and all full of a tragic, disturbing necessity.
The fact that he chose to target specific mythologies in his afterword (examples being the rise of the angry masses and the lack of courage of Jewish people) arose from even more chance, wherein audiences asked questions about certain topics and Levi responded to a certain few of those questions.
[Only read the first of the two books in this double-up]Primo Levi's path through the camp system, and his perspective on it, seem set apart from most other accounts (Elie Wiesel for example) owing to his knowledge, which made him more valuable (in purely economic terms) to the system that used up labour as a prelude to destroying the labourers. It's interesting to compare and contrast, noticing how each survivor's account tells us a little more about the central crime of the twentieth century.
