https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254799.The_Creative_Habit
The moment I tell the driver where to go, I have completed the ritual."Don't get me wrong: I am not saying we editors and writers need to get up at the crack of dawn to get the most out of our day.
I'll do it again.)"So if you're like me and need a little something extra to get you going, try establishing a ritual that makes your space feel good, and most importantly, makes you want to get to work, whether it be on the story you can't bring yourself to start or the editing project gathering dust on your desk.
Best book I've ever read on what being creative actually means - not a book about "lateral thinking" or how to have ideas or some crap like that, but a book by someone who needs to be creative regularly to pay the bills, has done so in her career over decades, and shows you that creativity is about work and discipline, not magic or mysticism. Read this book.
One of the most valuable tidbits I got was the understanding of what actually makes a habit a habit: for instance, she says she goes to the gym every single morning and works out.
But the habit is not the working out -- it's getting in the cab each morning to go to the gym.
But the habit was in place, and that felt like the most important thing.All in all, a worthwhile and motivational read, especially for us "flighty" artist types determined to get over the creative dips -- or, as Tharp puts it, through the "ruts."
If this is your second book on creativity, you will know the drill already:-geniuses are made-creativity is hard work -routine is importantBut what makes this worthwile is that everything TT preaches has been lived and tested by her.
Mrs. Tharp shares her excercises, her insecurities, her failures and, most interestingly, her actual creative issues and the path to the truth.If this is your second book on creativity, you might find some new things as well, still:-"Quiteness without loneliness" is crucial, find time for yourself.-Spend one week without something which is important in your life (phone, email, laptop, TV, social media, etc), this will cleanse you, make you observe it in new light.-Cultivate scratching (i.e. searching).-To be creative you have to be generous (to share ideas, concepts).-Finish the work knowing what you’ll do next (the Hemingway lesson).
I find it inspiring to read about Twyla Tharp's daily rituals and creative habits. I suppose it belongs to the self improvement genre but it is written by a brilliant choreographer and dancer. I guess I like reading about the weird things people do to trick themselves into working fearlessly.
The Creative Habit: Learn It and Use It for Life (2003), Twyla TharpOne of America's greatest choreographers, Twyla Tharp, shares her insight into the creative process in her sophomore venture into authorship.
The best part of The Creative Habit is at the end of each chapter where exercises are prescribed to the content of the corresponding chapter.
In between you will find stories primarily from Twyla's experience with musicals and other artistic ventures.I tend to prefer straight forward talk and therefore found the majority of each chapter to be boring and unneccessary.
However, she should be credited with successfully mixing content about a methodical process with interesting narrative.
This is likely the best book on creativity you'll read this year.
I'm not a dancer (I'm a fiction author), but The Creative Habit addresses all artists and business minds too.
This is more than just practical suggestions to stimulate your creative juices and not the same ol' you've read before.
Generous with deep perspectives, philosophy, and real life insights.
What do you do if you are in a rut with your project or story or music?
How can you unleash the energy you need to move ahead?
Do you need to face your fears?
This book is full of answers.
I started this book some time ago after I received it as a gift.
I can develop a habit; I can't really wait around for a flash from God. I took the first test and had a hard time with some of the questions, but found that I got into it as I went on.
Not being a student, I don't sit with my books at a table and read and write notes or take tests.
Eventually, I just started to read the book, not do the tests and underline words and phrases that spoke to me.
This isn't a practical manual for developing creative habits.
Rather, it's a thoughtful, mostly backward-looking essay that describes how Twyla Tharp stays on top of her creative game as a choreographer.
This book would be most on-point for two specific categories of readers: (1) those who are professional choreographers like Twyla Tharp, and/or (2) those who are interested in reading about Twyla Tharp's career highlights.
For the rest of us, the book reads more like a memoir than a how-to guide; it offers some very high-level strategies for staying creative and productive, but it's up to readers to translate these into any useful action steps.
Which is a pity, when you are a developing artist who is attempting to make creative pursuits your job, as this book is entirely about how you make the supposedly mysterious act of creating things good old-fashioned hard work.So, my advice: read this book flexibly.
Making things isn't the big obfuscation our culture seems to make it, and The Creative Habit helps to slay this myth and with good cheer.Anyway, I'll probably make a point to reread this title every few years, since I have it on hand now, along with making it an idle reference book.
Twyla talks mostly about the hard work she has put into her craft.
She also relates information about other famous lives who she admires and were successful due to the amount of work they put into their craft.
Twyla writes about Mozart, who everyone thought was born with pure genius.
Observation, reflection, carrying a pencil to sketch and write, are all ways to help professionals generate ideas for creativity.
Here are Twyla's planning once one has an idea for a project:"A plan is like the scaffolding around a building.
But once the shell is in place and you start work on the interior, the scaffolding disappears.
I was expecting this book to be a lot better than it actually was, and I feel that the idea was good, it was just presented in a way that I didn't find at all engaging.
I felt that Tharp's ideas were kind of shoved down my throat in a very demeaning way, and I didn't like the way she treated the reader.
Overall, I felt that wagging her finger at things that people do in everyday life wasn't really the appropiate way to get people to follow her; not only did it make me feel like saying "What do you know?", it also made me feel like I was being treated like a 4 year old.
This book gave me a lot of new insight into the creative processes employed by artists - some of which seems definitely worth emulating.
Contrary to what I believed, successful artists seem to be ones that impose some order prior to open the stage up to creative freedom.
There is routine, there are deadlines, there is regularly inspiration drawn from prior work to kickstart creative processes, and effort to get into a “groove”, and to exit a rut.
Working every day on this blog—having to come up with an interesting or compelling shot even when I’m sick, distracted, or would rather be doing other things—is the best thing I could have done for my creativity this year.
The Creative Habit reconfirmed some of the creative practices I’m already using, but it also gave me a lot of ideas that will help me improve my projects, from this daily video blog to my writing.
Оно доступно бизнесменам, ищущим новые способы увеличения продаж; инженерам, решающим техническую проблему; родителям, желающим, чтобы их дети увидели мир под разными углами зрения.«Когда творчество входит в привычку, когда вы умеете управлять своим временем, ресурсами, ожиданиями и требованиями других, когда приходит понимание важности объективной оценки, последовательности и сохранения чистоты идеи, вы оказываетесь на пути к достижению наивысшей цели любого творческого человека — к обретению звания мастера, профессионала».Каждый человек может пропустить через себя сюжеты обычной жизни и создать нечто удивительное.
I enjoyed this book a lot more than I expected I would.A few things I took away from it:Every creative work has a 'spine', a metaphor or message that holds it together.
Not exactly the theme, more like the trace of where the idea came from that kept the project going.I liked her concept (maybe it isn't hers, but it's in the book) of a 'metaphor quotient', one's ability to use and understand metaphors, to explain the world using reference to memories and experiences.
I love the point she makes with the exercises that creativity isn't just something you get out of bed and do, it's something that you need to work at.
One of the best books I've ever read. If you're struggling creatively, or even just with life, this book gives you all the tools and tips you'll need to get back on track. Things I've been doing that I felt were spontaneous actually have a name (at least in this book) and now I can actually track the tools used with my success and failures. It's one of those you can't put down, highlight and underline, and go back to again and again.
I just started but I love the pragmatic approach Ms. Tharp has to creativity. She demystifies her process and attempts to make creativity and innovation accessible.I actually stopped reading the book because the style was very expository. Since I did not have the time to treat this like a workbook with exercises I gave up on it. It got dull. She really made her creative process mundane.
Twyla is a bit of a hard-ass. She thinks people that don't wake at 5:30am and then work out for two hours are lazy. She's definitely of the "will-power is king" school of thought. I certainly didn't envy her her choices in life and did not respond to her manner of writing either.
Unique perspecitve into the creative self through exciting, unusual exercises to practice from a dancer's POV. Easy reading and fun to follow.
This means she has a lot of experience with keeping the creative workflow going and with getting out of the inevitable rut.Her way of work is dependent on rutines and habits and hard work.
You need to keep your instrument of choice sharp and at the ready so when inspiration hits, you are ready to catch it and run with it.I think she is mostly right about her attitude towards working creatively for the most parts of the book - the only thing is, that as a person with a full-time job, kids, a family, pets ...
My own work output this week has probably tripled as the result of reading this book.And it wasn't all about work, by the way.
It is utterly reassuring to know that even bona fide geniuses (perhaps especially!) such as Twyla Tharp, regularly need to get up everyday at the same time and go to the gym, and file away papers in cardboard boxes, in order to wow us all with their seemingly divinely- inspired artistry.
Tharp insightfully demystifies the creative process, showing that it's mostly a matter of discipline and hard work.
To me, this is the key thing in the book and creativity for that matter.
After that, you can worry all you want about how to end something.There's a lot of dance talk throughout the book, but not as much as to overwhelm.
Plus Tharp is so well versed in other creative fields that it never reads as creativity through the eyes of a choreographer, but as someone with a deep knowledge of the creative process who could be in any creative field she wanted.
Big growth between my first full read of this book almost 10 years ago, and my second time through the book, which I finished yesterday.
This time, I studied intently the early chapter on ritual -- because that's my focus in the new year.
The first time I read this book, it was such a revelation.
After all, nothing is truly original, she reminds us.
But most, if not all, of her personal examples showcase her complete individuality, absolute originality, serendipitous who-knows-how-I-came-up-with-this sense of wonder about her own unique brilliance.
Read the complete review: hereI started reading The Creative Habit because of Chase Jarvis recommendation.
He wrote a blog post where he shared a list of 6 books that "will make you more creative".
I chose The Creative Habit to read because the title was already a lesson!
But what is creativity for Twyla?
“Creativity is a habit, and the best creativity is a result of good work habits.
Creativity is a combination of hard work and consistency.
Without it, you can’t create as much great work as she did.Read the rest my review here: http://filipacanelas.com/the-creative-habit
I picked it up because I am on a "creativity" book binge this year, but this book is not inspiring just because of the creative exercises Tharp includes.
She is a master of her art because she has devoted her life to it, and her inner drive, disciplined work ethic and determination is more inspiring than any creative exercises.
The book does not teach a particular method for building a creative habit.
But, through the example of Tharp's own life and experiences, I understand, on a deep level, that only passion, hard work and consistent practice will lead to success.
In a nutshell what you'll learn in this book is how to form habits and routines that keep you creative.
She defines creativity as a product of hard work and preparation.
That’s it in a nutshell." The book includes a lot of exercises and examples that can help you tap into your individual creativity and achieve your goals.
To help you internalize the material I recommend you to read a few book summaries after you've finished to boo.
There's so many lessons so reading a summary will help you connect the dots.
She inspired me to check out her choreography online after finishing this and she's so lovely.
Some of my favorite quotes and bits are:Metaphor is the lifeblood of all art.Before you can think out of the box, you have to start with a box.If it's true that who you are now and who you will be five years from now depends on what books you read and which people you meet, than you need to think more aggressively about those you invite into your creative life.Energy and time are finite resources; conserving them is very important.You do your best work after your biggest disasters.Totally inspiring!
I started this in the summer (using the Oyster app) and read a chapter or chapter section every day or so. I was really surprised at how universally applicable most of the advice turned out to be. I didn't take advantage of the written exercises, so I'm thinking of picking up a hard copy and going through it again. I particularly appreciated the way she included things like slumps, ruts, mistakes, and even aging as part of the creative life. This was kind of like if The Happiness Project had been written by a recognized MacArthur Genius.
The highest accomplishment of Twyla Tharp's The Creative Habit is to point out the effort creative work requires.
You must study the tradition of your chosen discipline (as well as surrounding creative disciplines), learn its vocabulary, the skills it demands, keep a daily practice, and learn how to help yourself out of a rut.
As she discusses each of these, Tharp offers examples from multiple art forms and from her experience as a choreographer.
Her discussions of classical composers has prompted me to search out more recordings of their music.
