https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1538917.The_Stephen_King_Companion
I wanted a book of minutiae and, boy did I get it! What is different about this book vs others on King is that it barely touches upon his works themselves and spends more time with history: his non-book endeavors, how his works have been perceived over time, artists influenced by, and attached academia. I was absolutely riveted. Even those who think they knew all about King (like myself) will come away a more well rounded fan.
Taking up 27 pages, this interview delves deep into Stephen King the man, and Stephen King the writer.Another excellent interview included here is one with writer Harlan Ellison, conducted in 1989, by George Beahm and Howard Wornom (specifically for inclusion in this book, I’m guessing).
He’s not afraid to speak his mind, and though he praises King heavily, he readily identifies what he feels are King’s weak points, including the one complaint I hear most, from other readers, that he pads his books with a lot of unnecessary verbiage.
Enjoyed insights into King's self and the trajectory of his career.
Wow..what a wonderful homage to SK!
Beahm covered such diverse topics on SK, his family, all his books, movies and all the little known story about him up till 2015.I went down memory lane with some of his works and details given by Beahm.
It was such a joy to have my love for SK work re-kindled ..no...strenghtened since i had left SK's work for a while in search of new authors to fill my reading itch.Very well done Mr Beahm.
If you update this book I'm gonna get the next one for sure because i will remain the Constant Reader ❤
This is my new favorite companion piece! Wow! I am going to hang onto this like a cherished textbook! If you're a King fan, like me, you simply need this book. If you are one of his Constant Readers, you'd be incomplete without it, man. Amazing. As an English teacher, I often read Carrie with a group of students, and this is what caused me to wonder about *this* book. I not only have new resources to go into the classroom with, I have a greater appreciation of King's entire universe.
It was an OK read. I was expecting a bit more insight in to the man and it was a bit dated.
I plan on using it together with reading Stephen King's books so it will sit on my shelf for awhile.
The plan is to read the book and then the pages for that specific book in this Companion.
I'm not usually a fan of biographies, but he is such an interesting man and it made me so much more excited to start my Stephen King challenge.
Would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes Stephen King.
*I'm not including this in any challenges because it will likely be on my currently reading list for more than a year or however long it takes to read all the books!
Excellent, and eminently readable, resource for King fans. I burned through it much faster than I anticipated.
An absolutely magnificent look at the man and his works.
4.50 of 5.00 stars
This new edition of Beahm's King Companion brims with excellent essays, interviews, reviews, photographs, and art. If you love Stephen King or horror novels, this is a must for your bookshelf. It's a book I revisit often after I read King's work or watch adaptations of his books. Beahm works hard to create a complete, complex picture of the author's career up to this point, and he does so with great success.
I adore this 90s edition of The Stephen King Companion. Though the current 2015 edition is more expansive as well as more delicately typeset and designed, this older edition covers King's work through Insomnia, has some great interviews, and generously devotes pages to large photos. I enjoy having the older edition along with my newer volume because the content varies between editions and the older copy is a more manageable size to carry around.
This companion book provides good context behind some of King's most popular stories. For instance, I wasn't aware that "Misery" was originally intended to be published under King's pseudonym (Richard Bachman). The editor and collector of this book has done his research and chunked each chapter into logical sections.
A very good companion book. Holds up very well considering it was originally published twenty-five years ago. I enjoyed the interviews the most, having that extra insight. Not a book I would recommend for the casual King fan, because they simply don't need to read it. But for King fanatics who must read every book that comes out, this is a must-read treasure to round out your collection.
While very interesting to read, I sure wish I would have a more updated version of this book. Stephen King has written many more books in the meantime which renders this 1989 edition quite outdated. Nevertheless, this book delivers some informative tidbits for Stephen King fans like me.
Good. I read this one because I thought it would be useful, as a fan, to have a better knowledge of his life. Sort of. The impression I get is that King is a private person (wise man) and this book doesn't delve that deeply into anything personal.
One of the best book companions I have used. George Beaham seems to study the person he is writing about very while. The was a library edition. Now I plan to purchase the book since I am a huge Stephen King fan.
-
re-visiting on audio
For a Stephen King fan in the pre-Internet days, this was invaluable. Now, not so much.
I have always been a big King fan, so of course this is a good one!
A real compendium of information that is full of detail but too often gets bogged down in what is little more than trivia. Worth a read if you've never read anything else about King.
2015 Edition
Very thorough resource if you like to read Stephen King's books. At least for when it was published.
Read old version 10.3,15
It was Greeeat
I've had this book for quite a while. About 90% of it is outdated however there is some good material about the books in the University of Maine collection.
quite interesting
I have a Publishers Copy (Copy Number 'PC') hand signed by George Beahm and the contributors. It's a nice edition.
Good enough.
