https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76401.Bury_My_Heart_at_Wounded_Knee
It belies claims that the US is uniquely placed in the modern world to be the arbiter of global justice.The catalogue of crimes against humanity detailed by Brown is chilling, but I was shocked most by where the guilt for these crimes lies.
It is a humbling indictment of what some claim is the greatest nation the world has ever seen.
If this is the greatest nation the world can come up with, we have truly seen that humanity is rotten to the core.
Wow its cold and we’re hungry; you wouldn’t be so kind as to help us out.”Native Americans: Awe, they are just like little children.
“Alright you can purchase some land” snicker “How do we go about this?”White guys: “Well, we will give you some shiny things, trinkets and bobbles and you will sign a piece of paper that says this land ours and that you will stay off of it.”Native Americans: These guys hilarious, but just to keep the peace…….”Okay, deal.
But what happens if we enter “your land”?White guys: “We will kill you.”Native Americans: Oh man!
It took me forever to read, largely due to the fact that it is absolutely heartbreaking.
That said, I believe it is one of the most important books I have read in my life.
I was surrounded by Native American culture, I learned about them in school, we took field trips to see places they'd lived, and yet, I NEVER learned about what really happened.
I love America, I'm thankful I live here, but this book made me angry with the government, past and present.
The massacre of the American Indian was nothing short of a holocaust.
Every American should read this book.
And, to be honest, I don’t know nearly enough about American history to give an informed opinion on that question, but what is virtually impossible to ignore is the effect of US government actions and inactions throughout this period and that effect was invariably the same – the genocide of the local indigenous populations.
The government would do nothing to remove white settlers from Native American lands, despite their treaty obligations – but tell Indians to either move further west or south and to forsake their lands.
Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West, Dee Alexander BrownBury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West is a 1970 book by American writer Dee Brown that covers the history of Native Americans in the American West in the late nineteenth century.
Brown describes Native Americans' displacement through forced relocations and years of warfare waged by the United States federal government.
The government's dealings are portrayed as a continuing effort to destroy the culture, religion, and way of life of Native American peoples.
The entire book is a sad depiction of the historical progression (regression) of American values and attempts to add to their imperial quiver, which has sadly not stopped into the 21st century, when more dreamed up needs for ‘taming the infidels’ emerged and left future generations full of hate and to carry the burden of being tarred and feathered.
Those with much curiosity about the subject can rely on Brown to offer raw and realistic depictions of an indelible stain on (North) American history.This is my first book by Dee Brown, read as a favour to a great friend in her choice to initiate me into her book club.
I read this book for the Goodreads' book club Diversity In All Forms!
This book is told in story form.
However, the author got his information from using council records, autobiographies, and firsthand descriptions.The stories range from multiple different tribes: Dakota, Ute, Sioux, Cheyenne, and more.
The pain, death and defeat (emotionally and physically) that the Native Americans went through and still are going through is so hard.I encourage everyone to read this book and any book that they can get their hands on about Native Americans.
I hope to read other work by this author, because this book was so fantastically written and informational.
It doesn't matter if the native people were Navajo, Sioux, Cheyenne, Apache, Modoc, Kiowa, Commanche, Nez Percé, Ponca, or Ute. The same theme was played again and again (because it worked for white Americans):1.
Often, we treated the American Indian as something to be removed, destroyed, cheated, profited off, and mostly ignored.I think some things have changed, but then I see how we treated the Navajo Nation, Hopi, Ute Mountain Ute, Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation, and the Pueblo of Zuni in regards to Bears Ears earlier late last year (motivation?
Most white people never bothered to understand how many different tribes and languages there were.To be fair, the book does mention a few white people who tried to do the right thing, including President Ulysses Grant, who hired the first Indian to workas Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
I'm proud to be American, but this aspect of our history is truly shameful.
Isn't it wonderful that as Americans we have the right to speak out when something is wrong!
People need to read this book, educate themselves, and not let this kind of atrocity happen again.
Written in the 1970s, Dee Brown's Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee remains a popular, relevant history of the Plains Indians.
A book subtitled "An Indian History of the American West" has an Indian-centric point of view.
This should go without saying, but before Dee Brown, every book, essay, short story, novel, novella, film, television show, play, and interpretative dance came from the white point of view.
The second charge against Dee Brown is contextual; that is, he simplifies the story into one of good verses evil: good Indian verses bad white.
Captain Silas Soule, Lieutenant Joseph Cramer, and Lieutenant James Connor protested that an attack on Black Kettle’s peaceful camp would violate the pledge of safety given the Indians by both Wynkoop and Anthony, “that it would be murder in every sense of the word,” and any officer participating would dishonor the uniform of the Army.”  In short, this is a book you feel ought to be taught in schools because it makes such a strong and moving case for the paramount importance of respecting foreign cultures.
The white man has taken our country, killed all our game.
Native-Americans tried very hard to stop the theft of their lands and the murders of their women and children, but they lost in spite of trying to use the White race's legal mechanisms of Congress and the courts.
Actual witness statements from soldiers, politicians, reporters, missionaries, settlers, historians, artists, photographers, and surviving Native-Americans from 1860-1890 were collected by author Dee Brown.
I first read this at Uni a long time ago; a factual and disturbing book, it pierced my conscience.
This is an account of a government intent of eradicating the American Indian.You'll learn how the Indians peaceably handed over tracts of land as requested in the beginning, how the white man came back for more and more and more.
How the Indians were a people just like the white man: they had families, communities, leaders, even pets; they lived peaceful lives.This is a book which will shock you, sadden you but mostly, make you re-assess certain attitudes to a people who are still fighting for their heritage.
It features on Books Everyone Should Read Once lists and rightly so.
It's not only to find out what's wrong with us, what we've done, that I read books like this, not only to try to create (by being the change) a culture of remembrance that learns from its bad past, but also to figure out what should be done and learn ways of living and being which may have been destroyed or driven out of sight of or protectively hidden from the white gaze, to know that it doesn't have to be like this.
You answer and there are a bunch of gun-toting immigrants, saying they want to be your new friends.
Their kids REALLY liked the apples, so they are just going to have to take ownership of the trees (waving their guns).
If they see you taking apples again, there is going to be trouble!- The next day...
The cops tell you that you've never had any rights to those trees and these new immigrants need them.
They warn you that you better not be a "trouble maker." Some of the cops are the same guys with guns who came to your house the first time.- The next day...
All committed to (1) furnish the commercial markets and (2) destroy the Indians' way of life.
The soldiers' fears of uprisings and the power of Native American leaders.
The Native Americans' fears of imprisonment, and loss of their way of life and land.
Fear make men react in dangerous ways, but in this instances, loss of life and retaliation for wrongs done on both sides.Dee Brown has written a well, researched account of the Western Native Americans.
Tragic because of the Native Americans suffering.
Brave because of the many, many times Native Americans endured and hoped for the same or a better way of life.
The two heaviest and most significant millstones both are aspects of one common flaw, the failure of the majority of white Americans to truly identify with people of other races as fellow humans with the same worth and rights as themselves, most glaringly evidenced in the attitudes toward and treatment of black Americans, originally forcibly brought here as slaves to serve the white community, and Native Americans (American Indians), who were already here when the whites arrived, and were forcibly dispossessed of the land which they were at first prepared to share.
Books like this one, a people’s history, told from the perspective of the vanquished, are a necessary corrective to this, and perform an important moral function in our society: shining a light on the misdeeds perpetrated by our national heroes.The greatest testament to the success of a book of this type is to render itself obsolete, and I think this is what has happened in this case—at least, to an extent.
I think it was important that Brown narrate this fighting from the other perspective, since it formed such a cherished part of our myth, but apart from sheer drama I did get much out of it.
I got this book on our first trip around what I call the 'Great Sioux West'.
When my dh retired from the AF we took a version of the trip I always dreamed of taking to see a good portion of our American West.
We visited mostly historic forts and National Parks.
We stopped at endless historical markers and for countless deer, bison, and other wildlife.
And all the while I read this incredible book.
If you read no other book on our American Indians, read this book.
Booklady motto: Never judge a book by its movie!
I make no assumptions as to why people have given this book such a high rating, though I do suggest one possibility could be to acknowledge the book's undeniable importance in presenting the Native American side of the story against the then-prevailing "victor's narrative."I only read the two chapters concerning the fate of the Apache in general, and Cochise and Geronimo in particular, as background reading for a class I am teaching.
Certainly, the subject of the book is disturbing and compelling, as is Brown's decision to tell the story of the genocide from the victim's POV.In light of the favorable and emotional reviews on this website, I will spend more time with the entire book at a later date.
I will keep it simple since I can’t seem to come up with anything to say, or more accurately, find the right word combo to say it with.This book incites a powerhouse of emotions: anger, remorse, loss, outrage, sadness, disgust…Notice how I left off the and?
I had to put this book down so many times to allow my mind time to process the horror I felt after reading each downward spiral into hell.
It had the feel of a horror story when you can see something bad on the other side of the door but the character can’t, “Don’t trust them!!
Audiobook was available at Downpour for only USD5.95.
Excellent narration by Grover Gardner.DEVASTATING.
Very difficult reading.
Dense.
I am very glad it was written and that I have read it.
The language used is perfect.
I don't know how to properly convey to what extent this book upset me.
Everyone should read it.
Maybe you think you know what has happened to Native Americans, but you do not know the half of it.
In 30 years, 1860-1890, the people were destroyed, and along with them fauna, flora and a whole different way of looking at life.
Progress?
Yeah, sure......
Not because it isn't a good book, the writing and the details in the historical events provided is exceptional.
I really believe I can look at this history with an impartial mind.
The Indians were an obstacle, and under the banner of old glory and the Christian cross, we wiped them out; men, women and children.The remaining survivors of the Massacre at Wounded Knee were brought to the Pine Ridge Agency just a couple of days after Christmas.
in the rafters over their heads were the remains of holiday decorations and a streamer that read, "PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN".
The way the US government and military broke so many contracts, promises, and deals over and over and over again leaving the Natives with no choice but to hope the next time would be different is so heart breaking.
Be warned this is not a happy book, each chapter begins with a new deal that was struck, and you KNEW how it was going to end up - but you were hoping along with the Natives "maybe this time will be different", and each time your heart broke with them when inevitably the promises were broken.http://weatherwaxreport.blog
That men such as Kit Carson, who had lived with these people, fathered children with Indian women, and spoke so highly of them as a race, could have been persuaded to join in the mass slaughter of them is incomprehensible.I could go on, because the outrage feels very personal.
The flag that Black Kettle stood under with his women and children huddled around him as the wholesale slaughter of his people began, a flag that he was promised would be his protection if he did not take arms against American troops, was my flag.
Brown explores in a frank depiction how all the great Indian tribes were lied to, cheated and killed by the US government and military so they could settle the best territories and plunder the land and expand it for personal gain.
Our United States was not expanded and built on freedom but on greed and oppression.For many years before this book came out, we were made to believe that the Native Americans were oppressed and wiped out by settlers, miners, ranchers and mercenaries.
It was truly horrible to read how they were betrayed and treated by our government for national gain and their culture was completely destroyed.
I enjoyed this, even though it was about a tragic part of American history.
I walked into this nonfiction book expecting a history report of sorts.
While it was that, I was so happy that it wasn't dry.
This was fascinating and the narrator of the audio version, did a fabulous job.
It was interesting to see this part of American History from the Native American perspective.
I firmly believe that when people show you who they really are, you don't ask for a repeat performance.
So many times, tribe after tribe, believed the government promises and time and time again, they were just lies.
This is the kind of book you never forget. Every time I think of what the Nazis did, or some other of the many genecides the world has seen, I remember what we did to the native Americans who were living their lives in the way of ours, and I am a little less self-righteous in my criticism of others. Apparently, we are all capable of doing horrible things.
This is a great book! Hard to read in many places. My blond, blue-eyed husband let out a "whoo hoo," though, when Little Big Horn ended! In full disclosure, I am more than 1/16 Native American.
As I listened to this book, I kept thinking back to that old adage that history is written by the victors.
Nevermind hundreds of thousands of innocent, peaceful lives lost in a show of astounding greed and ignorance and hatred.
Nevermind the thousands of years of history and culture lost forever.
I tried to think of how it could have been different, how we might have learned to live together...
The events depicted in this book were inevitable from the moment we landed in the New World.
I definitely think that this is a book that should be required reading.
