https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86172.A_Man_in_Full
I am convinced that, had you chosen to avoid doing such a thing as describe each cut of cloth, each brand name, each sartorial style, and its significance based on the character or the setting, etc., this book could have been a much crisper, much leaner, much more manly 400 pages.Sincerely, SteveBut I guess that’s what you get when a foppish little dandy such as this:[image error]… writes a book about what it is to be a man, or at least a portrait, or cross section if you will, of the state of manhood in the late 1990s south (Atlanta to be specific).Let me say it this way: I don’t give a flying fuck what kind of suit your character is wearing from day to day.
This book is Tom Wolfe's Masterpiece. I have read The Electric Kool-aid Acid Test and The Bonfire of the Vanities and this is by far his greatest accomplishment. I was surprised to read the reviews saying the book is contrived and predictable. I thought is was an engaging commentary on American culture. Tom Wolfe is first and foremost a social commentator and this book is no exception. I generally avoid modern authors as the contemporary authors are weak writers, this book is awesome. Ignore the self-righteous pretentious reviewers. Tom Wolfe is awesome.
And to get the plot going along comes a big problem for the mayor of Atlanta featuring a big sports star who’s black and the daughter of another Atlanta bigshot who’s white and who’s making an accusation of rape.
No John Lennon around to cast withering glances.This third thing is where Tom gives us a phonetic version of deep South English pronounciation whenever there’s a character with a strong accent.
He is endlessly ebullient, insouciant and all those other things which add up to wanting to pick up a 750 page novel at every opportunity for days at a time.
Even at the local thrift stores, it's there, sitting right next to Lonesome Dove and Tim Allen's autobiography.This book must find its way to second-hand shelves because it's both big AND mainstream.
Some people read their novels for bragging rights.
Perhaps this is why Wallace and Pynchon don't make it to thrift store shelves as frequently as Wolfe."A Man in Full" is a different kind of big book.
Tom Wolfe avoids the narrative flourishes of his contemporaries and uses old-fashioned and unsubtle plot devices.
The cast of characters is Dickensian - there's a tycoon, a young worker, a scheming banker, a well-heeled lady, and a debutante.
A major whiff at satire of Atlanta society.
Wholly unlikable cast of characters, all made of sticks, within jagged story lines, seemingly pasted together.
The book displays a significant disconnectedness with or misunderstanding of Southern U.S. culture in a way that is inexcusable in satire.
Moreover, the thematic thread of Stoicism appeared mostly forced and, more significantly, exposed illogicality and gaping gaps in the novel's arc.The worst of the three Tom Wolfe novels I've read (Bonfire of the Vanities, 5 stars; I Am Charlotte Simmons, 3 stars).In a word,Sad. The novel as a whole, not its story or me upon finishing it.And, bad.
It is well written, fascinating, thought provoking, delightful, fairly light reading, even at 700 pages.
This is the first Tom Wolfe book I've read.
The story evolves around 4 main characters, and one of them ends up in jail.
I decided to skip many of the jail sections, as I cringed at the violence that was there.
It turns out that the jail pages are the glue that holds the whole book together.
I've had to go back now, and read those pages, and although I hate reading about violence, it all makes sense.
It is at this point where you will realize that you have come to like Charlie Croker, that you are pulling for this humus head from south of the gnat line, that Croker, raw and crude as he is, contains a genuine spirit and optimism that has been squelched in the rest of us.Politics and money drive the entire story.
The tribal art collection ebbs and flows through his office in accordance with the political tide.Wolfe brings the Mayor, Croker and Planners Bank together on an issue that threatens to explode the entire city in racial tension.
If Croker, (a former football great) speaks out on Fareek's behalf, maybe the mayor can help him with all his debts to Planners Bank?
I read this about 8 years ago and started listening to it again a few weeks ago while I was doing some home improvment projects.
I love tom Wolfe - I think he is one of the best story tellers ever and he can really spin a totally believable tale.
This is the story of 4 main characters as they come to find out what potential lies within each of them.
He also gets to use the term solar-plexus in this book just like he does in all his others.
Its my second favorite Wolfe book next to the Right Stuff.
Black Freaknik!"The scene then shifts back to the street level perspective, the “Queen of the Rout”, the college aged girl, now dancing on top of the Camaro:“The Deb, this beautiful, exquisite young woman was…grinding her booty and projecting her breasts…she looked at them with a grin of concupiscent mockery and continued to grind her hips.” Then a scene transition happens, the aristocratic Driving Club members suddenly find themselves being observed by the partiers below:“When suddenly Circe, the Deb, the golden tan daughter of some Ideal Black Professional Couple of the 1990’s, stretched her right arm straight out, pointing upward – and grinned.Stunned, astonished, her besotted subjects on the pavement swiveled their heads in that direction too.
The settings vary from southern plantations, to ghettoes, to prisons and small suburban homes.As a caveat:I am not sure which side Tom Wolfe is on – and I don’t think he favours any of his characters.The book is very male-centric (something the author tried to correct with his next book I am Charlotte Simmons)Don’t look for long introspective meditation; that is not the style of Tom Wolfe.Page 643 (my book)On almost every wall surface of the house were ...
The most beautifully colored ones – and some were extravagant examples of the porcelain maker’s art – were arranged on wooden knickknack shelves, like the dolls.
He is an excellent stylist.So I have no problems with the writing in ‘A Man in Full’, but I do have reservations about it as a work of fiction.Wolfe’s adherence to a Victorian novel is admirable, the old idea of looking at life at every strata and weaving these different strands all together.
Probably not, but as Wolfe had already done the research then he might as well work them in.Another problem I had was this a very male book.
I found myself blasting through this book, not only because the story, with all its sub plots and twists and turns, was superb, but because his writing is just easy to understand; like Tom Wolfe himself is retelling the account to your face.
but i gave it the benefit of the doubt and now i feel like, for some reason i cant even begin to ponder, i was supposed to get this book...that i was supposed to read it...that this is my life path and now I cant wait to indulge more into the wonderful ecstasy that is Tom Wolfe.
This is a long book at 740 pages.
Tom Wolfe is nothing if not good at character development.
The level of detail he provides really allows you to see the scene in your mind and know the characters in the book.
It seems that most of Wolfe's books surround a period of time such as Atlanta in the early 90's in this case.
The story tries to portray the politics, mood, and traditions of that period.
Almost as if the entire point of the book is to paint that picture in the readers mind rather than telling an effective story.
I wanted to like this book because it's set in Atlanta & I like Tom Wolfe. Um, yep, so I wanted to like it. But weighing in at a gajillion pages, if I ever have to read 20 pages about each ancillary character's italian leather loafers or bowtie type or silk cravat knot's again, I may shoot myself in the face.

This is one of my all time favourites.
I read it when it came out and still remember parts of it vividly - Charlie Croker's almost invisible women, the rape, the meat factory, the jail, Plato and Socrates, the machinations of racial politics, and the kingly pride of real estate moguls who literally shape our cities.
It isn't as perfect a novel as The Bonfire of the Vanities, and you need to give up a few days of your life to read it - because once you start, you can't stop - but as with its predecessor, it beautifully captures the concerns, the perceptions, the foibles and the politics of the time.
This book might not have captured the zeitgeist as fully as some of Wolfe's other books, but I think time will be very kind to it. In truth, I think it was ahead of its time, presaging the mortgage crisis and all the other excesses of this past decade. Some of the best, funniest, and most insightful writing I have had the pleasure of reading - ever. Just great stuff.
9.5/10A man converted to stoicism in prison in Alameda County, California escapes during an earthquake which flattens the prison and proceeds to travel to Atlanta on the lam, where he in turn converts a bankrupt legendary real estate developer to stoicism.
Said real estate developer is on the sidelines of a race riot in Atlanta (during the mayoral campaign) caused by a date rape accusation lodged against Georgia Tech's black All-American running back by the daughter of another legendary real estate developer.
Tom Wolfe does it again: I just wish he could have worked some Marcus Aurelius in.
Recommended to anyone interested in philosophy, business, prison, or race.
I don't know how Tom Wolfe gets this stuff by the censors.
Upscale black lawyer Roger White is asked to represent Fanon and doing so offers Charlie a deal that would get the bank off his back, it would mean speaking in favour of Fareek at a press conference.With the press conference looming Charlie must decide whether to go along with White's plan by praising Fareek and save his empire or risk losing everything and possibly causing a riot in Atlanta.The author narrates in this novel a myriad of details and social observations.
Wolfe exposes pretension, hypocrisy, malice, greed and vices on top of the dynamism of contemporary life.
So he enlists his old friend Roger White to talk to Charlie Croker and see if Croker will make a statement supporting the running back, thinking that having a prominent white citizen on his side will prevent the issue from splitting along racial lines.Race is one of the main issues in both The Bonfire of the Vanities and A Man in Full, and I admire Tom Wolfe’s willingness to engage with the issue.
(There’s even a form of it called Streptofoam, mentioned on page 168.) And only Tom Wolfe could have written a fictitious hip-hop song with the lyrics “shanks akimbo.” (p.120) Wolfe’s usual keen eye for details is evident throughout A Man in Full.
In "A Man in Full," the plantations haven't receded into the past as we'd like to imagine.Wolfe keeps wrestling with the moral challenges that modern life presents amid the promise and chaos of so much material wealth.The white real estate baron watching his empire collapse, the black lawyer grasping for white respect, the bored loan officer fending off an angry mistress, the terrified prisoner fighting for his life - their experiences couldn't be more different.
When he was researching A Man in Full and knew he would have to write about men working in the freezer of a food distribution company, he experienced it himself so that he could write with perfect accuracy--and this is such a minor detail of the story!That being said, I have immense respect for Wolfe and know that when I read one of his books, I am certain to also learn facts about a variety of things that make up multiple human experiences that are quite real.A Man in Full tells the tale of Atlanta when it was just beginning to become the economic powerhouse that it is today through the character Charlie Croker.
Wolfe certainly took his time in creating his opus maximus and his work ethic is worthy of great respect.
Wolfe's ear for American dialect showed great range and seemed unfailing in its ability to ring true.
However, Wolfe went too far in the Epilogue and appears guilty of hubris in asking his devoted readers to succumb to the willing suspension of disbelief that he had laid at their feet.
How can we accept the destinies Wolfe has shaped for the great Charlie Croker and Conrad?
Wolfe is a great American mainstream novelist.
Easily in the top five greatest books I've ever read, Tom Wolfe's, A Man in Full, is a modern day classic that has just as much to say about humanity as Uncle Tom's Cabin or The Jungle.
But by the end of the book, even that part, which comes out of nowhere (But makes sense given the location it takes place in), seems justified and essential to the rest of the story.
In the end, I don't think I have ever read a book that has captivated me so much as A Man in Full.
Tom Wolfe may not write great female characters, but he is a damned master at writing about the rise and fall of overly self important men in all strata of society.
Does society respect me?
And, if you need another selling point, Chapter 3 is a true masterpiece where a pompous business exec defaulting on millions in loans shows up to a bankruptcy proceeding and gets taken down by a mid-level bank officer, piece by piece, and reduced to a sweating, cowering milquetoast.
You read that chapter and think, if only this had happened to Enron and Goldman Sachs.
Painful Paean of self-loathingPlot: 150 pages worth of drawn-out setup, spread over 750 pages of florid prose; followed by 150 pages worth of climax/denoument crammed into 30.Characters: Multitudes of self-absorbed, petty characters, most of whom we (unfortunately) have omniscient access to, and yet none of whom are remotely sympathetic.
They are so unlikeable that none of them like themselves.Message: Murky and internally conflicted.
And for all that careful setup, the ending feels extremely rushed, and whatever message there may have been is contradicted in the epilogue, which seems to have been tacked on as an afterthought.
I remember that when I first picked up this book it was missing the first 30 pages.
They actually had another copy of this book on the cart that looked like it was in new condition, but that copy was in Spanish.
My spanish was intolerable at best, and I considered completing my spanish language learning quest just to read the version that was untouched.
That was impractical considering my situation, so I read the English version with the first 30 pages missing.
I can see why Tom Wolfe is considered such a great author.
I also read a copy later on that had ALL the pages in it.
I'll go ahead and admit it: he might not be a "great" writer, but I like Wolfe all the same. He has a smooth, flowing style and, though he tends to overindulge--I doubt this book needed to be 742 pages long to achieve the same effect--he fashions a compelling narrative. A little complexity and unpredictability couldn't hurt his characters, but nonetheless Wolfe makes you come away feeling somehow emotionally connected to even the most contemptible plutocrat.
Having become interested in Stoicism, and having much enjoyed prior books by Tom Wolfe, I was eager to read this book. It did not disappoint. Great characters, great dialogue, and vivid settings. And, it included strong Stoic themes.
I hated this book so much I threw it away. It is the ONLY book I have ever done that with but I didn't want anyone to pick it up and read it and have me be responsible for it in any way, shape, or form. I ADORED Bonfire, but this? This was DRECK.
