https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16376.Full_Moon
His hilarious writing makes you forget you've read nearly the same story a few times before.Full Moon is a tale of Blandings Castle and has the usual suspects.
You have the Ninth Earl, Lord Emsworth, his smooth talking brother Galahad Threepwood, the overbearing aunt, Hermione this time, unrequited love, and a pignapping.
Still, it's as crisp as ever.Lord Emsworth isn't on stage as often as I'd like but he makes it count when he is.
Hilarity ensues.If you've read Wodehouse before, you'll belly up to the bar for this one for sure.
If you haven't read any Wodehouse yet, rectify this problem immediately!
Hilarious, laugh-out-loud, softly giggle to oneself kind of book. Most of the characters are easily identifiable and that's what makes P.G. one of the greatest writers of his time. Situational comedy is hard to depict but he seems to be a master at it.
Enjoyable, amusing and entertaining, a very well written story.This is the first Wodehouse I have read (on the recommendation of a friend) and it strikes me that this is very similar in tone, nature and style to the 'Ladies' Detective Agency' series by Alexander McCall Smith (of which I have read many) - presumably McCall Smith is a fan of Wodehouse's?Great escapism to a long gone time and place that never really existed.
3.5 starsA fun entry in the Blandings Castle series revolving around the love affairs of 2 of Emsworth's nieces but not the zaniest of the series. Paul Galdone's illustrations were an added bonus :)
They shone on turret and battlement; peeped respectfully in upon Lord Emsworth's sister, Lady Hermione Wedge, as she creamed her face in the Blue Room; and stole through the open window of the Red Room next door, where there was something really worth looking at - Veronica Wedge, Lady Hermione's outstandingly beautiful daughter, who was lying in bed staring at the ceiling and wishing she had some decent jewelry to wear at the forthcoming County Ball."Can you BUHLEEVE that?
I love the feeling of peeping into one room then another, one creaming her face and one staring at the ceiling, OMGosh!!And it's MOONLIGHT that's doing the peeping, stealing around.
Ah, P.G. Wodehouse is good for the soul.
I got interrupted in my reading a little more than I'd like with this book, but still had a lot of fun.
Brought me back to my younger years when my whole family would take Wodehouse on family vacations and read them and swap them around.
There aren't a lot of books out there that make me laugh out loud, but Wodehouse does.
If you're new to Wodehouse this probably isn't a starter book.
It doesn't really matter, but there are characters from previous books and if you know them already it is funnier.
Fun. Also read in September of 1982. Finished again in May of 2018.
What better reading for a spring visit to the balmy country seat of the Sarlls, especially when the Moon is still pretty much full?
It's the usual Blandings formula - star-crossed lovers, stern aunt, funny business involving the ancestral porker - and none the worse for that, though here the form is perhaps being refined to the point of decadence.
The doubling and interweaving of the romance plots must have required the most needle-sharp planning, but it was worth it; of all Blandings' imposters, I suspect none ever got quite so many bum's rushes as poor plug-faced Bill Lister, yet never does the repetition stale.
Laugh out loud funny, especially enjoyed the perceived alcoholic visions of Tipton Plimsall.
That is perhaps why, this book which was given to me with quite good intentions by a distant cousin a good lot of 10 years ago, didnt catch my attention.
P.G Wodehouse wasn't an unfamiliar name to me at all, but why of course I had never read a work of him !So I took the book out, finally understanding the meaning of omnibus got on to reading it.
What a beauty.Right now I am ordering more Wodehouse and cursing myself for not reading it oh so many years ago.There is a magic in him, a spell quite esoteric.
The beautiful thing about Wodehouse's writing is the predictability of outlandish behavior and misunderstandings followed by a happy ending, and yet he still manages to surprise you with his humor. Yet another funny read (with fake whiskers...)
It had been a while since i picked up a Wodehouse, and Full Moon just reminded me why that was a big
I enjoyed this story. Lots of good laughs and comical situations like only Wodehouse can set up. But it's not his best.
Freddie Threepwood is back in England to promote Donaldson's Dog Joy when he discovers his cousin Prudence is in love with his old friend Bill Lister.
Prudence's mother doesn't approve but Freddie falls on the side of true love and encourages his young cousin to marry at the Registry Office before any of the family catch on.
Freddie invites Tipton to recover at Blandings Castle, where he discovers his cousin Prudence in residence without her beloved!
The course of true love never did run smooth but leave it to P.G. Wodehouse to put his characters in the most outrageous situations.
Initially I wasn't too sure on how enjoyable this book would be but once I became familiar with the multiple characters the plot becomes hilariously interesting. It's worth reading for the comic situations and the wonderful characters!
I am now adding this to my list of favorite books. Wodehouse is an amazing author, and I really loved reading this story. I look forward to reading even more great novels.
P.G. Wodehouse creates characters that leave the reader simultaneously shaking their heads in flabbergasted disbelief and nodding in hopeful delight. In short, it's a pain in the neck.
Too many. Gotta take a break. Five stars!
The scenes where he does show up, however, are amusing and among the best parts of the novel.I’m also disappointed that Lady Constance doesn’t grace the pages.
I particularly love the dialogue exchanges between her and Emsworth in previous books.Of the new characters, I really like Veronika.
Shame she doesn’t feature more, as she’s very funny.The plot resembles many other Wodehouse tales, but somehow this one isn’t as engrossing.
It annoyed me at times, and I couldn’t help wishing he’d put all reported speech into dialogue, as I consider dialogue to be the author’s greatest strength.In short, a little disappointing, yet still a worthwhile read.
Full Moon is part of the Blandings Castle series, a humorous, entertaining romp full of stereotypical caricatures of the over-the-top, “best of British” characters whose lives would typically revolve around the goings-on in one of the great country manor houses of rural England.
The plot is an absurd farce involving thwarted lovers, a pig portrait artist, a lost family heirloom and a ridiculous series of events where everyone “gets the wrong end of the stick”.
Some very clever and funny writing, particularly in the first chapter which provided many “laugh-out-loud” moments but it all became rather predictable as the story progressed.
Another farcical romp at Blandings Castle complete with ditsy dames, formidable aunts, prize-winning pigs, and cowed men. The plot is fueled with lots of alcohol, dubious disguises, thwarted lovers, and a misplaced diamond necklace. In Wodehouse's world, women rule, men drool, and lovers always win out. The stories may be set in an upper class British world that never existed, but they are hilarious and subversive. I would love to see the "conspiracy wall" that Wodehouse used to keep track of all the complications and mix-ups. No one could keep all that in their head while writing. A fun read.
It's always good to be back at Blandings Castle, ook al zinken de capriolen van de bewoners van Blandings Castle in het niet bij die van Jeeves en Bernie Wooster...Vaudeville op z'n best... typisch Wodehouse... misverstanden alom tussen idiote upper class aristocraten... meer is dat niet en meer moet dat niet zijn...
Really enjoyed this one. Found myself laughing out loud several times. Plot was as loopy as ever, but easier to follow. Wodehouse was at the height of his powers by this time of his career, and it shows. I look forward to continuing through the Blandings series (five more novels!).
What can I say? P.G. Wodehouse is P.G. Wodehouse: ridiculous plot, absurd misunderstandings, cardboard characters and all. But where else might you read someone refer to a British peer as possessing an intellect "about 30 points below a not very agile minded jellyfish"?
Not quite first-rate Wodehouse I thought; some of the set-up and the pay-off seemed a bit slapdash by the usual standards; what was all the business with the necklace hidden in the hip-flask? But worth it as ever for the bright, spark-ey narrative voice and the idyllic world of Blandings.
Another fun read from Mr. Wodehouse, picturing the panic in Tipton Pimsoil's face every time he sees Blisters face. This joke takes the reader to jolly good climax. Just the names Wodehouse contours up is enough to make one smile.
Like any Blandings Castle series, this one is really funny in its own classic way. The plot becomes too long-winded at the end, but it would have made a great comedy movie or play. I wish I get to watch one someday.Recommended light reading....
The perfect antidote to the beastliness of contemporary politics. A typical Wodehouse cocktail of unlikely misunderstandings and intricate turns of phrase.
Excellent, just like all his books. So enjoyable. I cannot think of any better book for a holiday by the sea.
Hilarious !!!
