https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76645.Pearls_Before_Swine
It’s not until the second half of the book that these characters are really given a chance to breathe and grow into themselves, so that the reader can relax and enjoy the story.That whirlwind opening means that this isn’t as good as the last Campian novel I read (‘Police at the Funeral’’), but once it finds its feet it does have a great deal of charm.
In particular I liked that the character of Campian is not fixed in the way Poirot or Holmes are, but is instead getting older and feeling nostalgia for the world he once inhabited, which he realises has been smashed apart forever.
One of the best things about Margery Allingham's Campion series is that pretty much uniquely we follow his life from bright young thing in the 1920s to older and wiser in the 60s.
In this book, set and written around 1944/5 he is on leave in a battered London and war weary.The Campion books also have an impressive range of plots from straight crime to treasure hunt.
This book is the purest kind of mystery in that for over half the book the reader doesn't know what's going on as odd events accumulate - both brilliant and ahead of its time.What we have here is also an interesting examination of the class system in a state of change.
After three years of service overseas during World War II, Campion returns home to enjoy two precious weeks of leave, and immediately gets drawn into murder.This is a novel of change, of the wreck of the old world, and the formation of a new one, as the madcap attitudes of the 20s-30s generation give way to one coming of age during a time of bombing and deprivation. Also a solid mystery - though with the police a little inclined to fix on one suspect above all others.
maybe my second-favourite, for writing, and ace plotting, you'll enjoy sleuthing it. Palinodes a bit silly, but very period i suppose. Charlie Luke very misogynist i thought, hope he doesn't get Clytie.
Great read, really one of the best classic British mysteries I've ever read! Definitely going to read more of this author, since I now see that this the 12th Albert Campion book. Started off brilliantly, and just kept getting more compelling to the end. Very British, but in a fun way, I think. They didn't call it the golden age of mystery fiction for nothing, that's for sure. Enjoy!
There's a *lot* of elements introduced and most of them tie together but it's not completely neat and I felt there were some things unexplained, and I feel like there's no way it's a "fair play" mystery (although that might just be me not being very smart).
Ending spoilers re what I didn't understand (view spoiler)[What was the whole roses/pearls thing about?
It's really strange, the explanation given is Chivers sent roses and pearls to Moppet for years because...
And then Moppet sent notes back like "I don't want this but thanks" every single year?
After almost ten years and a couple of novels that try to pull the series in new directions - sometimes feeling as if Campion himself is only included as a necessary marketing measure - Allingham manages to fuse her darker, wartime sensibility with both a plot and a set of characters who are more recognizably of a classic caliber.
It's obvious that Allingham sees the war as a turning point, and the time of Bright Young Things has now passed.
If you enjoy Dorothy Sayers, you'll enjoy this classic mystery. it's set in war torn England and involves nobility and commoners. very British and somewhat dated...but intriguing characters. the villain surprised me.
While he's there, he's suddenly interrupted by his servant Lugg and Lady Carados, the dowager of a local aristocratic family, carrying the dead body of a woman into Campion's bedroom.
However, one thing I found interesting about this book was the way that Allingham explores the effects of the war on the characters and their status.
Lady Carados and cockney servant Lugg, a former burglar, are volunteer fire wardens together with equal status.
Charming, intelligent, people who get themselves in a bad situation and among the group- one is a killer.Albert Campion has come home from doing intelligence work for the Government and is headed home to his wife and son.
Despite his best intentions of catching the train home he has to solve the mystery.The characters are stunning in this book...
Don Evers is in love with Susan.Allingham is amazing at the way she collects the characters and sews them into a complicated plot but does it in a way in which you stay fascinated.
Albert Campion is one of my favorite fictional characters and this is one book in the series that I missed in my initial binge of Allingham's classic detective series.In some ways this novel is right on point with the others in the series:.
. we get a detective who is far brighter than he appears to be;.
When Campion comes home from a secret mission towards the end of the war, he finds chaos and a woman's corpse in his London home.
Besides considering herself and all of her class above the law, the aristocrat is the mother of a long-time friend of Campion's, a war hero to boot.
As Campion learns of more subterfuge, theft, murder, and strange connections, he becomes ever-more fearful that his friend Johnny may be responsible for a series of crimes.
Since the first book in this series, Campion has become more interesting as he matures, always remaining ever outside of and intellectually just a little bit above those around him.
A well-written window into the shakeup the war caused to all classes in British society, seen through the eyes of a war-weary detective. He'd like to go on vacation now that he's home from the front, but somehow someone has deposited a corpse in his bed while he was soaking in the tub. It only gets better from there. Even after I've finished the mystery, I'm still not very sure how it all unraveled, but that's not really why I read these anyway.
Albert Campion has just returned from WWII and is on his way home. When his servant, Lugg, appears with a dead body and a lady in tow. This brings in more people. Then he is hit over the head when he leaves the house. His story is not matching the story told by the lady and he sets about trying to figure out what is going on.Good story and writing.
Definitely my least favorite of the Campion books so far. The plot and pacing sort of dragged for me, and the solution was not particularly satisfying. Still a cut above most mysteries, but I expect only great things from Allingham and this was just so-so.
Margery Allingham is an amazing writer. Even today her 1930s books are complex, interesting and filled with cultural references. I recommend any of her books written in the 30s.
Heavy on atmosphere and English upper-class interaction. A bit light on actual mystery.
A good plot, with the right number of red herrings. The characters a little too simply drawn. Interesting dialogues.Note : the title of the original, British, edition is Coroner's Pidgin
This was okay, but I think there is room in my heart only for Sir Peter Wimsey. I like Alber Campion, but as more of an aquaintance than an old dear friend...
Aka Coroners Pidgen
Too many undistinguished characters to keep track of.
Old fashioned crime story and told by one of the best. Margery Allingham writes quality fiction. She captures the time and place exquisitely and elegantly drops the reader into wartime London. Her main character is gentleman sleuth Albert Campion, understated but completely appropriate and an attractive hero to carry the day. VERY good.
I found this on Kindle under the title of "Coroner's Pidgin." I thought the mystery was quite good, and the descriptions of London during the blackouts were fascinating.
The man and woman in question are transporting the body to the apartment of Albert Campion, amateur detective and adventurer....and a man who is not supposed to be at home.
However, Campion has just returned to England after spending three years doing top-secret war stuff (see quote below) and is making a stop at the London apartment before heading to his country hearth and home (not to mention wife and babes) for some well-deserved R&R.
He discovers that his old retainer, Magersfontein Lugg and the Dowager Marchioness of Carados, are the whisperers and that they have deposited the body of a woman on his bed.
I'm working my way through Allingham's Campion series, and this one is set in 1945 as our hero returns from three years abroad working for British Intelligence.
Writing in 1945, she really brought to life for me how the war, the Blitz, the whole experience changed people; in one memorable scene Campion fondly recalls the things that seemed important before the war to people of his class.
With typical stiff upper lip, Allingham in her dry, understated way lets us know things will never be the same again for anyone.
I enjoy the fine writing of this series and the way Campion and his fellow characters age and develop believably.
He wants to relax, but instead gets pulled into a mystery when his manservant Lugg and an aristocratic lady smuggle a woman's corpse into his flat (apartment).The corpse had originally been found in the bed of the Marquis of Carados, who is scheduled to get married.
This one differs in its setting during or directly after WWII, with plot elements including Nazi plans to loot European artwork along with the more domestic story.(view spoiler)[ Amanda doesn't play a role in the mystery, but does have a cameo at the end.
I'm working my way through Allingham's Campion series, and this one is set in 1945 as our hero returns from three years abroad working for British Intelligence.
Needless to say, he doesn't catch his train, the mystery deepens, and we're sucked in.
As always, Allingham weaves a fascinating thriller around sophisticated, upper class Londoners; what I found more interesting was the war-time atmosphere she created.
With typical stiff upper lip, Allingham in her dry, understated way lets us know things will never be the same again for anyone.
I enjoy the fine writing of this series and the way Campion and his fellow characters age and develop believably.
This is one of my favorites of the many Allinghams I've read this holiday season.
I won't give a spoiler but there are massive amounts of stolen works at the heart of this mystery, and it's so interesting to read about them in a book written in I think 1944.There are also some extraordinary character sketches in this novel, especially the one of the Marquess of Carados' mother.
It makes your hair stand on end in terror as he describes this lovely, slightly idiotic and yet incredibly willful and powerful elder woman of privilege who absolutely believes the rules don't apply to her and her type.
The way Allingham describes her is ....
Margery Allingham is one of the notable authors from the best years of mystery fiction but I hadn't read much of hers outside of the occasional anthologized short story.Normally I am easily caught up in mystery stories but I had a harder time with this one.
Even though the plot takes place over just a few days, there was no sense for me of a complete story being told.Or perhaps I was just too tired while I was reading it and the fault lies not in the book but the reader.I'll have to try another of hers another time and perhaps I'll have better luck.
Margery Allingham's Albert Campion books are usually good reads the first time through, but several get better and better with subsequent readings: The Fashion In Shrouds, The Tiger In The Smoke, and this one, which I just reread after about a decade.
Several outstanding characters in this book, too: Johnny Carados and his mother (with the Downton Abbey dowager's sense of entitlement), Campion's uncle the Bishop of Devizes, Miss Pork.
The other 2 Allingham books mentioned have better mysteries than this one, but you can't beat the side stories in it.
