https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207546.A_Preface_to_Paradise_Lost
Lewis traces the expectations behind Paradise Lost by looking at Homer and Virgil and Beowulf.
Makes me want to read Milton.His defense of Milton's Style had this fine gem, worth quoting at length:"The older poetry, by continually insisting on certain Stock themes--as that love is sweet, death bitter, virtue lovely, and children or gardens delightful--was performing a service not only of moral and civil, but even of biological, importance.
Once again, the old critics were quite right when they said that poetry "instructed by delighting," for poetry was formerly one of the chief means whereby each new generation learned, not to copy, but by copying to make, the good Stock responses.
I don’t necessarily know if that makes them more valuable, but it added a warmth and enthusiasm that was hard to resist, a warmth and enthusiasm that made me want to go back and re-read passages as he referred to them.Lewis is like Chesterton to a large extent, in that all his writing and judgements rest explicitly on the foundation of his faith, as well as on a foundation of highly conservative, traditional views of culture and society.
What I do like about Lewis, is that he makes no pretence that it’s possible to avoid doing so, that in some way he’s writing from an objective point of view.
Very nicely argued!
Lewis argues against the William Blake notion, and very intelligently.
Not many critics see in Adam anything heroic or admirable, but Lewis pleads his case with great conviction.
The last few chapters on Milton's theology, his concept of angels, and the Fall in general are also some of the most informative and interesting chapters in the book.I wasn't expecting this book to be enjoyable as books of criticism are mostly preconceived to be dry and tedious.
Recommended to students of Milton and to classical epic enthusiasts in general.
C.S. Lewis writes what may be a very poorly titled book in A Preface to Paradise Lost.Certainly, the last half of the book, or so, is a book about how to enjoy and understand John Milton's Paradise Lost.
Lewis makes some very poignant observations about epic poetry in general and about The Iliad, The Odyssey, Beowulf, and the Aeneid specifically, in addition to Paradise Lost.His clear favorite, I'm sure, is Virgil's The Aeneid.
He also sees flaws in Milton's Paradise Lost that he believes Virgil does not make.
I recently heard from one of my professors that "when you read Lewis' critical stuff, you wonder 'wow, how did people ever get published with stuff like this?'" I pulled this off the shelf to reassure myself that such statements are silly, and it worked.
A book like this would have trouble getting published today, but that's just to say that people like Lewis did their jobs back then: we have no room for sweeping, incisive criticism like this anymore because it's been done, and we need to chop our subjects up into tiny peices to "create knowledge" about them now.
Lewis is astonishing because his specialty is Literature.
My third reading was just as beneficial as my first. I love this as both a Homer and Milton source.
Lewis takes the reader through the history of epic poetry, identifying primary epics (e.g. Homer's works) and secondary epics (e.g. Milton's Paradise Lost), and discussing the subjects, techniques, and style of each.Lewis comments on the great works in the early chapters: Iliad, Odyssey, Aeneid, Beowulf, Dante's Commedia, and Faerie Queen.
Without a proper understanding of hierarchy, I think it really isn't possible to receive Paradise Lost as it was meant to be received.
Read for ENGL 385This didn't actually help me with my dislike of Paradise Lost, but it did take me down a peg or two in my judgment of how well John Milton achieved his literary goals. My favorite part is Chapter IV: The Technique of Primary Epic, in which he writes about why we need ritual and how modernity has lost the art of truly enjoying ritual.
Next, in a lecture titled, The Unchanging Human Heart, he deals with how to read a poem (or book), which is perhaps my favourite lecture of all.
[thus] our whole study of the poem will then become a battle between us and the author in which we are trying to twist his work into a shape he never gave it, to make him use the loud pedal where he really used the soft, to force into false prominence what he took in his stride, and to slur over what he actually threw into prominence ………..
He has them all!Lewis is most helpful in addressing the "Satan Problem." Put briefly, Lucifer is the first character in the poem, and is presented quite sympathetically.
(PL, IV, 73-82)Seems reasonable: Milton a rebel, Satan a rebel.
Lewis admits that Satan is the best drawn of Milton's characters, for the simple reason that he is easier to draw.
This Lewis will not do:"To admire Satan, then, is to give one's vote not only for a world of misery, but also for a world of lies and propaganda, of wishful thinking, of incessant autobiography.
Gratitude, that a great expositor can still open a great poem to us.The mis-state Wordsworth: Lewis!
This delightful piece of criticism is a reminder of not just why Paradise Lost is one of the great works of literature, but why C.
S. Lewis was one of the great literary critics.
Lewis surveys the whole sweep of epic poetry from Homer onwards in the introductory chapters which lay the groundwork for his discussion of Milton's work itself.
For the most part these deal with Milton's theology and his supposed heterodoxy - Lewis is clear to distinguish between ideas that Milton held and those he actually propounded in Paradise Lost.
PDF here.Read this in my Milton course at Bob Jones University with Dr. Caren Silvester. The more I skim through various parts, the more I think that I just need to go back and read the whole thing again. It's really good, and I'd probably give it 5 stars the second time around.
Read about half of it, need to go back and read the rest. Chapter 7, "The Style of Secondary Epic," especially caught my eye.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2970090.htmlC.S. Lewis had a good year in 1942; he was a regular broadcaster on the BBC, he was working on Perelandra, and he also published The Screwtape Letters (which are certainly on my Best Novel Best Novella ballot).
A very interesting examination of what epic poets are trying to do.However, I think Lewis himself clearly does not regard the book as related to the field of science fiction, fantasy, or fandom.
I doubt that the hypothetical voters of the non-existent 1943 Worldcon would have put this on their final ballot, and more important, I doubt that Lewis would have accepted nomination if offered the choice.
(Unlike The Screwtape Letters, which clearly has some sfnal roots.)
One of the best introductions to Paradise Lost. Lewis gives you an understanding of the lost art of epic poetry that better helps you grasp the arc and purpose of Paradise Lost. He also introduces main themes and certain things to look for. If you want to get the most out of Paradise Lost, read this first!
I haven’t read Milton (!) so I wasn’t a great conversation partner with Lewis. But I have read Beowulf. My favorite chapter was ‘Hierarchy’. “...the modern idea that we can choose between Hierarchy and equality is, for Shakespeare’s Ulysses, mere moonshine. The real alternative is tyranny; if you will not have authority you will find yourself obeying brute force.”
As always from C.S. Lewis, it's well-written and clear. He constructs strong arguments and gives a very interesting delineating history of the epic poem. However, how you feel about this piece is likely to be influenced by other factors such as your feelings regarding Paradise Lost, your religious faith, your preferred theologies, etc.
Satan's own fall had come about by refusing to accept subjection to God. What could be more natural for Satan than to approach the one easiest to disgruntle?- I love Lewis' description of vocation.
"These references to the obvious and the immemorial are there not to give us new ideas about the lost garden but to make us know that the garden is found, that we have come home at last..." His conviction that the knowledge of Paradise is there, already inside us, is just one example of Lewis' sweet and compelling call to faith.- Chapter 13 (Satan) has a very interesting answer to the question, why are Milton's Adam and Eve so boring, compared to Satan?
Lewis explains that in Milton holds a hierarchical conception of the world, in which one's happiness consists in joyfully submitting to one's place in God's order.
In this view, once we submit to the God-designed natural order of authority, we are free to become what we were fully created to become.
Yes, we must submit to the rules of the dance or the notes on the music--but once we do submit to the created order, we become what we were created to be.
"[Milton] pictures the life of beatitude as one of order--an intricate dance, so intricate that it seems irregular precisely when its regularity is most elaborate.
Just in one short section of this Preface, Lewis poignantly explains why Milton's Satan is not a comic character and should rather be taken extremely seriously.
This and other facets of Satan's character have made him seem comic and indeed have made him one of Milton's best characters.
The reader may choose to laugh at what he views to be a comic character, or he may decide to recognize the truth that Satan lives in a monomaniac selfishness of infinite boredom and yet WANTS to go on living that existence.
This work in particular gives one the tools to see Milton's great epic for what it is and not necessarily what can be read into it."To look away from the effect which the poem might be expected to produce, and was calculated to produce, on the ordinary educated and Christian audience in Milton's time, and to consider instead all the connexions it may have had in Milton's private thinking, is like leaving the auditorium during a tragedy to hang about the wings and see what the scenery looks like from there and how the actors talk when they come off the stage" (91).Lewis's comment here, taken directly from "A Preface to Paradise Lost," suggests the kind of critical analysis he is attempting with Milton's epic.
I highly recommend this work for its thoughts on Milton, on "Paradise Lost," on literary criticism and for its engaging and plain writing style being one worthy of consideration, if not emulation.
Books don't get much better than this.Second thoughts: There are two really important things that Lewis demonstrates:(1) People often try to read Paradise Lost either as a realist novel, or as a lyric poem, or as some kind of synthesis, and thereby get bogged down and give up.
He believed that there was in fact a God, and a Satan, and a Hell, and angels, and that there had been a Paradise and an Adam and an Eve. Once you appreciate this, everything falls into place much more easily.
Lewis, unsurprisingly, puts it far better than I can.)One final, personal, note.
There are many introductions and prefaces written for 'Paradise Lost'.
C.S. Lewis is not only a 'likable' author, but one of the greatest scholars of 17th century English literature to date.3.
C.S. Lewis is not only a scholar of middle English literature, but he is also known as 'The Last of the Old Western Men'.
Lewis not only knew about the subject of Milton and Paradise Lost, he fully believed and held the same religion and worldview as Milton himself.This last point makes Lewis uniquely qualified to speak to us about the work.
This preface should be required reading by anyone getting ready to read, or currently reading 'Paradise Lost'.
I agree with Steve that most of what Lewis says is beyond me. AND, the middle part of the book about doctrine, theology, Augustine was not of interest to me. I really liked the beginning chapters about epic and epic style, etc. and also the last chapters about the different characters, sexuality, etc. So, really it was only a few middle chapters that I didn't love (maybe though that was mostly because I didn't get them :)). Nothing says intelligence like a smiley face emoticon.
Lewis' very orthodox Christian reading of 'Paradise Lost' that focuses on what Lewis believes Milton would have meant, rather than the supposedly incidental sympathy with the Devil and portrayal of God as a tyrant. I found this book very interesting, though it was quite limited to literal interpretations. The discussions of the tradition of epic poetry were also interesting and useful.
First book of literary criticism by Lewis that I have read. Absolutely brilliant. I can't believe I went through a lit crit class without reading Lewis' criticism. If you're interested in epic poetry, this is the book for you.
A book that not only engaged my mind, but also inspired me to delve in the classics. I can't believe how deficient my education has been. I need to read the classics -- back to Homer and on. It also has illumined my own understanding of Milton's Paradise Lost.
I really do enjoy this! Lewis's introduction is just peerless.
Magnificent. Also read around September of 1986.
In the same way that good Biblical interpretation (my area of advanced study and practice) hinges on understanding what the author was trying to say, if we want to understand PL, we have to approach it as Milton intended it.They had already struggled with this mightily in Lewis's day, and we're a lot further away from that now.
In fact, as much as I enjoyed reading this book and plan to buy it for my collection, there is no doubt in my mind that few people will try to understand PL specifically as Milton intended.
