https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106458.The_Selected_Poems
This book I have finally read,(*) along with English language translations of Mandelstam's poetry by a collaboration of the Mandelstam specialist, Clarence Brown, and the well known American poet, W.S. Merwin.(**)Most of my favorite 20th century poets wrote at least a few translations, and though the bulk of Mandelstam's translations were forced upon him in order to be able to eat while he was banned from publishing his own work or in the midst of his own poetic doldrums, he also wrote some translations in order to become intimately familiar with an admired poet's craft, to ingest and incorporate it into his own voice.
“Sleeplessness.
Homer.
Taut sails.I have counted half the catalogue of ships:That caravan of cranes, that expansive host,Which once rose above Hellas.”Antiquity and modernity, ancient times and nowadays – in a single stanza Osip Mandelstam establishes a link between eras making his poetry timeless.“When the city moon looks out on the streets,And slowly lights the impenetrable town,And darkness swells, full of melancholy and bronze,And songs of wax are smashed by the harshness of time;And the cuckoo is weeping in its stone tower,And the ashen woman descends to reap the dead world,Quietly scattering huge spokes of shadow,And strews yellowing straw across the floorboards…”Imagery, tropes, metaphors, symbolism and allegory: in the hands of a master, they are capable to work miracles.“We exist, without sensing our country beneath us,Ten steps away our words evaporate,But where there are enough for half a conversationWe always commemorate the Kremlin’s man of the mountains.His fat fingers slimy as worms,His words dependable as weights of measure.His cockroach moustache chuckles,His top-boots gleam.”It isn’t often that the poesy is priced so dear.
Osip Mandelstam was a genius who paid with his life for his poetry.


Like Tsvetaeva's, Mandelstam's poetry is built around an autobiographical framework (his is the archetypal tale of a poet who seals his own fate by opposing his homeland's tyrannical government).
Like Tsvetaeva, Mandelstam is not deficient in self-worth and sometimes even displays a fair amount of braggadocio ("My blood is not wolf's blood/And only an equal shall kill me").
For where one finds commensurability with paraphrase, there the sheets have not been rumpled; there poetry has not, so to speak, spent the night.Repeatedly, as I read the poems in this collection, I had to confess my inadequacy.
Nowhere.You left me my lips, and they shape words, even in silence.Then there are the striking images, as in Poem 129 written in 1922:The scalp tingles with cold.Nobody speaks out.Time pares me awayLike the heel of your shoe.Life overcomes life.The sound fades out.Something is always missing.There's no time to remember it.You know, it was better before.But there's no comparinghow the blood used to whisperand how it whispers.It's plain that some purposeis moving these lips.The tree-top laughs and playsinto the day of the axes.What an image!
from NOÖ [14]:Read a lot of this on a bus in the fog and drizzle of a deeply enwintered Massachusetts.
Osip Mandelstam was a Russian through the busy times: the Revolution, Stalinism, wars.
He died in a gulag.
You can tell he knew the dirt and the wine both without lying.
You can tell he liked clapping until his cheeks turned red.
You can tell he liked weeping enspooned with a beautiful woman as they both lay on a frozen lake and withstood the wind that was keeping the ice below them from giving way.
I don't usually read poetry, but this book was something else.
I have copied below some excerpts from three different poems I really liked:This one had a hugely emotional impact on me, I could almost feel his regret bleeding through the page:I could not keep your hands in my own,I failed the salt tender lips,so I must wait now for dawn in the timbered Acropolis.How I loathe the ageing stockades and their tears.This one was written during his time living in Ukraine while the great famine was going on.
Also, he read Poe's poems which is was a great surprise as well because he referenced some of them.
There is finesse in these poems that without being romantic are not quite existential either. Certainly history and political struggles have a weight on the poems, but they are not historical of political poems. If there is a tension is between a western heritage and an eastern life and cultural experience.
Mandelstam once said: "Only in Russia is poetry respected, it gets people killed.
Is there anywhere else where poetry is so common a motive for murder?" He wrote some non-conforming stanzas and ergo died in transit to a Soviet labor camp, after living for years in exile.
/ He wishes he could hug them like big friends from home.")I don't love Mandelstam's early poetry, about honey and tree boughs and birds in flight.
So I'm also complicit, because what morphs these words into magic is his terror.
Nowhere.You left me my lips, and they shape words, even in silence.
And your whispering spray shall fill, With wind and rain and mist, The walls of the brittle shell – A heart where nobody dwells …---Where a Roman judged a foreign people A basilica stands and, first and joyful Like Adam once, an arch plays with its own ribs: Groined, muscular, never unnerved.
But the more attentively I studied,Notre Dame, your monstrous ribs, your stronghold, The more I thought: I too one day shall create Beauty from cruel weight---There are orioles in the woods, and length of vowels Is the sole measure in accentual verse.
He died in 1938 on his way to a Siberian labour camp.Mandelstam's poetry is lyrical and thoughtful and in this edition beautifully translated by Clarence Brown and W S Merwin (the new USA poetry Laureate).
Some of his poems draw a picture of a Nature pushed to the margins and almost seem prophetic, for example, 116 talks about the plight of the bees:For us, all that's left is kissestattered as the little beesthat die when they leave the hive.***************************But lay to your heart my rough gift,this unlovely dry necklace of dead beesthat once made a sun out of honey.Osip Mandelstam - Selected Poems translated by Clarence Brown and W S Merwin and published by Penguin
My copy is so dog-eared it can't even stay closed unless its wedged between two other objects.
I always used to carry the select Osip in my pocket. A profound poet. The works by his partner are a feat of memory and love that is simply monumental .
The thing about Russian poetry (specifically of the non-conformist variety) is that is deliciously dark, and cold, and real:O Lord, help me to live through this night -I'm in terror for my life, your slave:to live in Petersburg is to sleep in a grave.The big difficulty I have with excerpted poetry in collections such as this is that I am always wondering what I am missing.
However, for a first experience in reading Mandelstam I have to say the choices here were quite yummy and it certainly makes me want to read his full poetry.
Extra-delicious is Conversation about Dante included at the end.Meow!
Let me give but one brief example:“The shy speechless soundof a fruit falling from its tree,and around it the silent musicof the forest, unbroken…”While this does not have the precise form of a haiku, it matches it in spirit, capturing the sensations of the moment.Many of Mandelstam’s poems require knowledge of classical literature in order to understand his allusions, and that is not a criticism.
Others, however, require a knowledge of the poet’s life and his circumstances in the Soviet Union in the first four decades of the 20th century to make much sense.
Here are the opening lines of one of his poems:Hagia Sophia: here, God himself decreedNations and kings to stop! As witness eyesIn words, your ancient cupola is indeed,As if on a chain, suspended from the skies.Across the centuries, Justinian’s exampleShines: Diana of Ephesus abets The theft of 107 columns in green marbleFor the benefit of those alien gods.
I didn't enjoy Mandelstams' poetry as much as I thought I would. His style is different from Arkhamov and maybe that's on me since I enjoyed Anna's poetry much more. Several of his poems about Stalin flip easily into comments about President Trump. But egocentric megalomaniacs are all the same so the comments should be similar. Enjoyable poetry for those who want to think.
ernal
3.5/5
Read Harder - collection of poetry in translation on a theme other than love.
♥️
When Mandelstam disappeared into the gulag for the second and final time in 1937, the world lost a potent voice for art and for resistance, though Mandelstam’s politics was not ideologically motivated but in defense of art and freedom to give voice to truth.
In 1934 he was arrested for a poem he’d written satirizing Stalin and recited among a small group of friends.
/ Why is there such silence?” Here is the first stanza from the title poem of his 1922 collection: “I have studied the science of good-byes, / the bare-headed laments of night.
For high culture, the poetic tradition from the Greeks down through the nineteenth century, seems to be the redemptive force that Mandelstam clung to throughout his short, tormented life.
Time, on the other hand, is the destructive, fully negative force that Mandelstam looks to art to rescue him from.
At times, Mandelstam reminds me of Adorno and Benjamin, but he lacked their complex relationship to modernity that resulted from their admiration of Marx.
Arrested and tortured for a brazenly anti-Stalin poem that he publicly recited (bad idea!), Mandelstam's last creative years were spent in exile, where, to my mind, his greatest work was composed.
Possibly due to not knowing the Russian language and thus having to read an English translation whic
Some brilliant poems (#223; #344;#351;#388 to name a few), but overall I couldn't connect with the poet's voice on any deep level. Perhaps the dense classical allusions, which forced me to rack my brain for my long ago Classical Culture studies, stopped me from being drawn into this volume.
I'm convinced Mandelstam was the reincarnation of Ovid, or else these things simply recur in time as archetypes in some Borgesian/Spenglerian fashion.
These translations are wonderful.
Mandelstam was truly a giant of modernism.
Merwin & Brown do an admirable job with these translations, but I still feel like this poet is awaiting a superb translation into English.
I'm not sure if Pevear and Volokhonsky have translated much Russian poetry beyond the poems in Dr. Zhivago, but they should team up with a poet, maybe Ilya Kaminsky, and do a complete translation of Mandelstam's poetry and prose.
Ovid IVRanked 4 only for Mandelstam's poem, "Tristia", and its telling of Ovid's story. The collection as a whole is a solid 5. Mandelstam's "Tristia" is inspired by Ovid's poem of the same name. It is saturated with the feeling and language of exile.Mandelstam himself fell out of favor with the Stalinist government and eventually perished in exile, whether explicitly murdered or a victim of the gulags. "Tristia" proved eerily prophetic.This concludes the round up of works inspired by Ovid's exile. I am still awaiting the truly great retelling. Maybe I'll have to write it myself.
how i wish i could flywhere no one could see me,behind the ray of lightleaving no trace.but you- let the light encircle you.thats the one happiness.Learn from a star the meaningof light.if it's a ray, if it's light,that's only becausethe whisper and chatter fo loversstrengthen and warm it.and I want to tell youthat I'm whispering,I'm giving you to the ray,little one, in whispers.----------------Mounds of human heads are wandering in the distance. I dwindle among them. nobody sees me. But in books much loved,and in children's games i shall rise from the dead to say the sun is shinning.

