https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/901311.Black_Gold
And for two, and for me, even more importantly, I absolutely and massively chafe at all the glowing epitaphs which somehow portray the fact Black Gold did manage to complete his final race with a broken leg as somehow heroic and courageous (sorry, but there is NOTHING even remotely heroic or courageous about a severely, fatally injured Thoroughbred continuing to run its race, simply because that is what these horses have been trained to do).
Based on a true story, this book follows a boy's dream of being the jockey to ride a small, overlooked horse that he knows to be a champion.In general, Henry's books, which are typically horse-related, are great for early readers.
All of Marguerite Henry's books are amazing, but this one has a special place in my heart. This is the first tragic animal tale I ever read. I cried for days. I couldn't believe the hero could have a unhappy ending. As an adolescent girl, it was delightful!!!
Very weird and tragic "children's" story based on the life and death of the 1924 Kentucky Derby winner Black Gold.
For example, that Black Gold was infertile was only hinted at, since you could talk about death but not sperm count in kids' books in 1957 (when Black Gold was first published.) The real history of Black Gold and his impact on American thoroughbred racing and the Kentucky Derby is more interesting than Henry's book.Try to get an edition with full-color illustrations, as they greatly add to the story as a whole.
THE SIZE OF THE HEART IN THE HORSEInspired by a true story, Marguerite Henry continues her literary tradition of showcasing a love of horse (and mule) flesh for youngadult readers.
Set in Okalahoma, then in Kentucky in the 1920's this story relates the birth and racing career of a thoroughbred whose smaller stature caused him almost to be overlooked for serious training.
Both horse and youth must demonstrate that it's the size of the heart in each one--working as a team--which ultimately matters in this highly competitive milieu.
This is a chapter book about a horse named Black Gold.
The horse is seen by many as being too small to race.
A young rider named Jaydee thinks the horse has what it takes to win horse races.
The story ends with Black Gold breaking its leg during the final stretch of a race and has to be put to sleep.
I think you would have to enjoy horse racing to have a chance at enjoying this story.
I think children might be bored by this book and would struggle to finish it because it doesn't hold the readers attention.
Black Gold is the center of two dreams. The dream of Al Hoots, who risked much on a mare named U-see-it; then lost the chance to race her and set out to breed a Kentucky Derby champion. And the dream of Jaydee Mooney, a young boy destined to become a jockey and determined to ride one very special horse.Black Gold is now one of my favorite Marguerite Henry books. The story seems more solidly based on fact than many of her other novels. And the horse is truly legendary.
It was about a very fast horse named after oil. The Native Americans called oil black gold.
I'm trying very hard to not cry right now.Better review to come.
Dear reader, I advise you not to buy this book, for the reason that the horse, Black Gold, the Main character, is killed. I also think that the people should not have taken him away from his mother.
Horse is born.Horse races.Horse dies.The end. I was mad after reading this book at eleven or twelve years old. See my review of San Domingo for my opinion of this author's books.
However, during his free time he enjoys sneaking to the race track and day dream about being a jockey.Black Gold, the name of the main horse character in the book, is introduced a bit later.
Normally I get frustrated when it takes too long for a novel to get into the action (I usually give a book 50 pages to secure my interest.) But the background information/build up to the introduction of Black Gold was so skillfully done I enjoyed reading about U-see-it, Al and Jaydee's life before Black Gold came into the world.​In fact, I felt like I grew more attached to Black Gold because as a reader, I grew rather fond of U-see-it.
This book was good in the beginning.
I loved her characterization of Black Gold's jockey, and it was good to have even a fictionalized version of an otherwise forgotten Derby winner.
I liked U-see-it, Rosa, and the boy.
The trainer, though...he was all right at first, but got progressively more frustrating.Black Gold's ultimate fate was (view spoiler)[very sad (hide spoiler)].
Despite being something of a downer, however, it's still a good, moving story.
I think it still has relevance today in the treatment of Thoroughbreds, even if there are a few things today that weren't around then.
This story is the story of Seabiscuit and Ruffian.
I think people like horse books so much because a horse symbolizes so many things from friendship to freedom.
Those particular horses who can run so fast and jump so high on their own strength and without machine and who let us harness them teach us the power of synergy.
Then we take those lessons and apply them to the most important relationships--those with our families and loved ones.
The lessons a horse who runs until he breaks teaches us are about loyalty, dedication, and pure desire to do something just for the love and joy of it.
It was really well written.
I think the tragedy at the end of the book was well put into words so much so that it brought tears of sympathy to my eyes.
I really did enjoy this book...
and I would recommend this book to horse lovers and young Jockeys that want to go to the track and be able to walk around in the winners circle.
I read this book because its main basic story goes along about an race horse that made many wins and brought hope to the less fortunate.
Black Gold was beautifully set and thought out.
I was obsessed with horses when I was younger and read EVERYTHING by Marguerite Henry. This one is true--and heartbreaking.In case you're wondering, I'm still obsessed with horses; I just don't have the time or money.
A good book about the true story of a horse no one thought could and a jockey with big dreams. I love the drawings in it -they're very cool! Of course my copy is an old harcover version which I love to collect old horse books.
Agh, this was way sadder than expected... But I loved it all. I feel like everything ended up the way it should, even if it wasn't how I wanted it. I've always loved Marguerite Henry's books and this is no exception.
Ha ha ha, I saw this book and had to add it to my books. I have very good memories of hiding in my closet reading this book when I was supposed to be doing my chores. I think I was 8. I probably read it 5 or so times.
This is probably my favorite of Marguerite Henry's books, partly because Black Gold was real, and at the time I read all her horse books, I was an elementary school girl who loved horses more than just about anything!
One of my all time childhood favorites!
I really enjoyed the book! but the ending was better sweet.....
This is still one of my favorite horse stories. I read it many times when I was in sixth grade! My father gave this book to me.
This book evokes childhood memories! I still have the hardcover given to me 30+ years ago. It's a treasure to me.
These marvelous books wouldnt be the same without the collaboration of the incomparable illustrations by Wesley Dennis.
What I remember most about this book, is how after Black Gold died, there was a memorial set up for him at the race track, and I have always wanted to go there to see it, and maybe someday I will.
Black gold was a fun easy read. A classic horse book any true horse fan in my opinion should read. I really enjoyed it. I am sure that I will someday share it with my kids.
This is a book that needs to be expanded in the same way that Seabiscuit's story was. It is a true story of a horse owned by an Osage Indian woman from Oklahoma who won the Kentucky Derby in 1924.
sad
this was really good I read it in 3 days, I loved how M Henry made 2 plotlines slide into one in the middle of the book, at the end it's really sad though
