https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831414.The_She_Devils
This, so far, is the only book I've read that kept me tumescent the entire way; literary Viagra of the first order.If this is too much information then get back to the junior leagues, o' timid ones."Despite the fact that my sexual exercises are ordinarily as reserved and conservative as my language, my moral scruples do not go so far as to prevent me from fucking a mother on top of her daughter and then deflowering the same daughter on top of her mother."Just to give you an idea of what's afoot...
Before it ends, almost every variation of depravity is explored in dual and gang-bang configurations dealing with one of the most potent of male fantasies, the taking of a mother and her daughters simultaneously.The writing is not avant-garde or offputting, just to-the-point, explicit and unashamedly nasty.
**DNF @23 % **. . . . And just when I thought I've read everything, one of the heroines fist her mother.. For more Reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways
Completely depraved, full of typoes, very sexy. Silly. Fun. Hot. Did I say it was hot? Yeah. It is.
As many other open-minded readers from our time, I guess, I was also openly shocked by almost every page of it.
I didn't find it arousing at all, but I did find it mostly fascinating, sometimes too strong, other times kind of sweet and innocent, all of it depending on the point of view and the level of relativism applied...Today a good friend asked me about one erotic novel to read, and my mind came to this book, not as "one of the best erotic novels" but as "one labeled-as-erotic novel that could shock any reader up to some high levels"...
Todo o texto parece obcecado por cenas de sexo explícitas, com absoluta preferência por situações sado-masoquistas, algumas das quais absolutamente nojentas.
Fucking Masterpiece
Si tratta del classico 'romanzo proibito' che sfidava la censura dei secoli scorsi. L'autore, un vago seguace di De Sade, trovandosi a sviluppare un tema borderline con l'inferno e ritenendo ormai evidentemente di non aver nulla da perdere, ci caccia dentro un po' di tutto: incesto, coprofagia, pedofilia, zoofilia ninfomania e chi più ne ha più che metta. È un 'romanzo erotico'? Non direi. Nella costante sfida provocatoria che percorre le sue pagine è assente l'eros, in qualunque sua sfumatura. Anzi, è proprio il concetto di 'sfumatura' ad essere estraneo all'autore.
If I am going to speak about a lady's erotic feeling, then it had better be as a woman feels.
Well, this work feels like it is written by a schoolboy who just hit puberty and now is the time to chronicle is boyish fantasies and attribute them to ladies.
This reminds me of Arabian Night where erotic works are written for the sole pleasure of male Arabs and as they understand sexuality, to no regard or consideration whatsoever for how it goes in a woman's world.
Off to the author's other work published by Dover, The Songs of Bilitis.
Apparently, I first read in March 2010. No, that can't be right. This is when I gave it all these stars here... Actually I used to own a copy, maybe in 2008, but then I started lending it to friends, to friends' sisters, to their girlfriends. I kinda miss it.
Um livro antigo, erótico mas com um nível de devassidão sem qualquer pudor com vernáculo associado. Algo pesado, não é para qualquer um. É um livro bastante forte na linguagem.
Bien moins érotique que son Aphrodite. Décevant.
Leído en Mayo del 2013Libro para leerlo con la mente muy pero muy abierta, me choqueo bastante.
A dirty, dirty, dirty book. Not for those who are into some light erotica. This is some perverse stuff. NOT RECOMMENDED for light weights.
Best book ever.
Had to read it for a University Course - one of the most disturbing books I've ever read!
ribcage/knickers
This is a tough book to finish, not because it's too rough for me -as many reviews complain- but because -at least in this translation- it's boring and repetitive. It's a graphic read, yes, but it has nothing on Sade. This is like a less cruel/violent, more Freudian, "psychological" Sade. Not a lot to recommend here, unless you're particularly interested in the literary pornography of that era (late 19th century). I would have given up on it early on, but I did pay to download it and I felt obligated to finish it eventually.
