https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196977.Twelve_Who_Ruled
The atrocities commited by Robespierre and the Committee of Public Safety are horrendous, but the speed and ease with which French society crumbled into deadly despotism--its utter plausability--is truly scarier than an horror film I've ever seen.Palmer essentially tells a straight narrative, following the exploits of Robespierre and the other members of the Committe of Public Safety, which ruled France with a brutally harsh dictatorship.
His prose is easy to read and very engaging, making this an ideal book for historians and the general public to enjoy.Overally, Pamer here presents perhaps the greatest narrative of the Reign of Terror, and possibly the most balanced viewpoint.
For two years after the French revolution, France was ruled by a committee of twelve men.
Palmer recounts the events of "The Year of Terror" in Twelve Who Ruled.This book was finished in 1941, and it contains oblique (but not opaque) references to invading armies and the dangers of totalitarianism.
It is paradoxical that the French, who tried so hard to recreate the American Revolution, and who fervently believed in Constitutional government, feared factions and divisive thought.
-- 20th century Americans would do well to reread Madison.) Of course, the Committee failed politically.
But Palmer makes clear that of greater concern to the Committee were the “federalists,” centered around Lyon and Marseilles, who strongly supported the Revolution but opposed the Jacobins and those even farther left, the so-called Hébertists.) The economic situation was stabilized, both in terms of food supply and in terms of ability to manufacture essential goods for the state, especially munitions.
Palmer discusses their origins and pre-Revolutionary lives, how they managed to end up in their positions of power, their activities during that turbulent period, and the crises that led up to the day of 9 Thermidor, the famous Thermidorian Reaction, when Robespierre, the Committee's leader, was guillotined along with his colleague Saint-Just and the Revolution ended its most frenetic phase.The book has a strong narrative style, which is excellent, because this is a confusing time to read about (though of course even more so to actually live through).
Palmer's account of the Terror is supposed to be a classic on the subject, and it is easy to see why.
That's not to say it is an easy read, it is not.
Palmer's passion, which he does not try to hide, comes out and is in and of itself a propellant to reading this book.
PS: Robespierre in my opinion is very much like Shakespeare's Brutus, the only one who comes off as truly believing in the cause of the Terror and who really thought that he was doing the right thing.
This is an excellent work of historical scholarship. It can be a bit dry at times, though that is to be expected when reading scholarly works. Palmer has a distinct narrative voice that carries throughout the book and heightens the reading experience.I found that this read like a 12-part biography (if the title wasn't a giveaway), with a backdrop of the Year of Terror. Particular focus was given to Robespierre, but that's not exactly a surprise when reading about the French Revolution.
The author's use of literary scenes to open each chapter helps the narrative along, and the insertion of the author's voice from time to time gave me needed perspective on what is, ultimately, a cast of hundreds, and intrigues almost as numerous.This was the fifth book in a series of five I tackled, and was clearly the superior history.
After suffering through Hibbert's Days of the French Revolution I actually enjoyed reading most of this book.
It seemed to flow most easily when the author recounted military maneuvers or battles, although he did a creditable job with the politics and economics as well.
Concerned that other types of historical scholarship missed vital details that could answer the question, Palmer sets out a micro-history, which closely examines the rise and fall of the twelve individuals seated on the Committee of Public Safety (the small autocratic committee that briefly gained leadership of the National Convention).
Through his meticulous micro-study, Palmer makes a convincing case for the complex motivating forces both inside and outside of Paris that ultimately determined people’s courses of action.Methodology: Palmer’s work uses many historical methods related with the Annales School (whole history thinking, broad human interest, detailed evidence, environmental conditions and unusual documentation), while consciously modifying or choosing not to employ other aspects of it.
It is brilliant in the portrayal of the men who led France during its darkest hour, and as a comparison with those who could not lead and only collaborate in 1940.
It is brilliant, finally, in the contextualization of these decisions: the reader is able to understand, reading this account, why these men took these decisions, even if, and perhaps even more so, when the rest of Europe was besieging France.
I liked reading this book -- it is very well written, and today history-writing is too distanced to this kind of narrative -- but I also finished it with an immense frustration.
When I studied the French Revolution in school, it began with Lafayette, went to Liberté, égalité, fraternité, then a single paragraph about beheadings galore and the monster Robespierre.
Magically, then there was Napoleon.
Needless to say, it is about time I filled this hole in my education.
The French Reign of Terror was administered by men.
Men who had lives just like anyone else, but also men who had power and had to figure out how to use it.
That is, that regular people do horrible things and find a way to live their everyday lives, feeling self-justified.
In this way, this book is a lesson for our time.
Compare this book to Hamiltion. Both try to rehabilitate historically unliked figures of the 1790s. This book could have been called Robespierre. It's mostly an amusing undertaking because we thereby learn something deep about the author. This book would have been better if it had focused entirely on R. We dabble in European war politics, we dabble in the factions, we dabble in philosophy, we dabble in economy - but not a lot becomes lucid. And there are a lot of sentences that begin: we don't really know what happened that day in the Green Room...
We have 2 levels of understanding of most events. First there is the myth, filtered through the bias of the group, and then there is an intimate understanding of the inner workings of the event, which brings out the humanity and often the tragedy of its participants. Palmer is a bit of each for he was a revolutionary romantic, but one committed to evidence and unwilling to ignore the complexity of human experience. Twelve Who Ruled is a classic of its kind, being fair and honest without being cynical. This is the French Revolution as tragedy.
I mean, the Terror is obviously the most interesting part of the French Revolution, and this book, especially considering it was originally published in 1941, is like, surprisingly... interesting? Like readably interesting. There are a lot of very interesting books that are hardly readable to the contemporary reader, but this one was like, damn, Palmer, this was interesting and readable and just good, man. Also the epilogue nearly made me cry so that's that.
This is a very good book but also a project to read. If I had been reading this for a class it would have been exactly what I expected, for leisure it was a bit much. Nonetheless, Palmer writes exceptionally well and the materiel is well presented and obviously well researched. In the forward Woloch writes that Palmer never revised the actual text despite several new editions being released over the years. I can see why he wouldn't have, why revise something you got right the first time?
A decent book! Granted it could get a little dry at times, but it was very informative!
This is a beautiful and well written book about 12 people that constituted the famous Comity of Public Safety during the reign of Terror. The book flows nicely from beginning to the end and explains the inner workings of the comity very well. Each chapter more or less describes one or 2 different characters from the comity. I learned a lot from the book and I have to shape it changed my opinion about few of its members, in particular Couthon, who was not as evil as I initially thought. Recommend to anyone interested in the period.
Although somewhat dated, this book written in the beginning of the Second World War is one of the most balanced works on the subject I have read so far.
Inviting the reader to interpret Nazi Germany as a German Revolution, Palmer creates many fascinating points.
Palmer refuses to use many French words, substituting “Mountaineers” for  Montagnards  and “virtue” for vertu, to mention just a few examples.
Many general history books lean towards either an audience who is quite new to the subject, making the author appear condescending to a more knowledgeable reader.
Ultimately, the author argues, Robespierre and his peeps fell victim to their own success: the regime they created became too efficient at identifying and arresting "conspirators" (100,000 in jail and 40,000 executed by July 1794), and no-one in the National Convention was willing to tolerate the Great Terror once the threat of foreign invasion had passed.
After the Committee of Public Safety fell, of course, France returned to revolutionary chaos until the only public institution that still worked, the Army, took charge.
A must read for anyone interested in either politics or history.
Brilliantly written, and a gripping read.
One of the best non-fiction books I've read in years.
I would particularly recommend it as essential reading for anyone on the radical left, or who consider themselves libertarians - far too often those of us agitating for radical change don't learn the lessons of history, and this really is such a good illustration as to how noble intentions can - through gradual steps, each one of them logical and understandable in isolation - can in total turn into horror.Seriously.
Read the book.
"Twelve Who Ruled" is an account of the French Revolution's Reign of Terror. It focuses on the twelve men who ran the almost-dictatorial Committee of Public Safety. It is a detailed account and is well-written for the amount of detail it contains. Palmer presents a balanced interpretation which strives to understand each personality and not vilify anyone. I would recommend this to those interested in the details of a key time of the French Revolution but it is not a book for those casually interested. Cautions: none.
Reread this book a little more than 40 years after first encountering it in a history course, and am glad I kept it on the shelves all these years. A difficult subject handled with sureness of touch and admirable scholarship. Delves deep into the workings of the French Revolution to make it more understandable. Written at the human, individual level as well as at the level of broad social forces. The reflections of that landmark event also help explain the terrors of our own age.
The most efficent and just rulers France ever had, despite the terror. Perhaps, because of the terror."The attribute of popular government in a revolution is at one and the same time virtue and terror. Virtue without terror is impotent; terror without virtue is fatal....terror is nothing but justice; prompt, severe, inflexible. It is the emanation of virtue."
Before reading this book, I was all too familiar with the manifold failings of the Committee of Public Safety. After reading it, I have an appreciation for its many and important accomplishments. Professor Palmer was quite a good historian and analyst.
I may get back to this at some point... it was interesting and well-written, but it just didn't grab me. At this point in my life, my reading time is so limited that I need to be reading something I REALLY enjoy, or I don't make time for it.
For me, it was a labor to get through.
ABOUT THAT MONSTER ROBESPIERRE (AND FRANDS) AND HOW SEXY HE'D BE IF HE WAS A FICTIONAL CHARACTER :(
Awesome read about the notorious Committee of Public Safety of 1793-94; I took far too many notes! I will certainly be re-reading this one at a future date. Insightful, clearly written. Lovely!
Interesting to see an individualized history of the Committee of Public Safety, instead of the general, "they," in many French Revolution histories (including many scholarly works).
This is an excellent account by a premiere twentieth-century historian.
A good historical read of the Reign of Terror amd the Committee of Public Safety, how they came to power and lost power in only a year.
