https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20758105-monsters-of-men
I don't think a book has left me feeling this shocked and amazed in years––not even the first two books, which also totally blew my mind.All right, well, let's get down to business.
You become so attached to Todd and Viola and you see them go through so much terrifying crap and it's just like … aaahhh … It gives you that total feeling of dread that eats away at the inside of your stomach, and your eyes are glued to the page and it's like "HOLY CRAP!
This book doesn't share the fast pace of 'The Knife Of Never Letting Go' and doesn't put as much emphasis on the shock factor like 'The Ask And The Answer'.
But it delivered beautifully in a way I could never have imagined.Firstly, I've never been a huge fan of swapping the narrative repeatedly from person to person, but not only does Patrick Ness make it enjoyable, he also makes it necessary.
I like the careful way Ness makes the lines between heroes and villains very blurred.
I don't want to say too much about that and ruin the novel but the ending was the most shocking one I have read in such a long time...
Like I said in  my review of The Ask and the Answer, Patrick Ness is the one with power here.
It is an excellent, thought-provoking series recommended to all, although I agree with others that 3rd book did not follow the path 2nd and 1st books went on, it still was a moving read and extremely deserving to be the closing chapter of this immensely emotional and powerful ride.On Page 402 there is a line -“ And I wait for a long minute.And I don’t know what to say.And I don’t know what to do.
I think this book had the best beginning in this series but unfortunately, it was tamed a little bit in the middle.🌟 There was a 3rd POV in this book and I am not going to spoil it because it was creative and is better to be left a surprise.
It was one of the reason that made the middle part less interesting.🌟 The Plot is great and there are twists and drama and darkness as usual that will destroy you in the best possible way!🌟 Summary: A great continuation of the series that is almost guaranteed not to disappoint you.
So somehow this isn't my most favourite book of the series but it's still getting 5 stars because I'm just proud of myself for surviving the whole thing.PS.
It makes me super excited for the movie haha.LITTLE THINGS TO NOTE:• I absolutely 100% ship 1017 and (view spoiler)[ Ben (hide spoiler)].
Just because someone doesn't lay out all their secret, doesn't mean they're not trustworthy for goodness sakes.• I LOVED THAT WE GOT THE SPACKLE'S POINT OF VIEW.
One of the best endings of a trilogy i have ever read. I sobbed, and laughed, but most sobbed. So poetic, honestly, Patrick Ness is a gift to this earth.
that is not to say there is no action - there are battles and smaller skirmishes and many innocent characters have terrible things happen to them, so it is very similar in that way to the first two books, with more politics-of-war and musings on the nature and meaning of humanity.
whenever i came to that font, i was like "nooo - gimmie more viola!!" it's not my fault that those two characters are so close to my heart, while the land is interesting but not all up in my emotional grill.this really was an excellent conclusion to one of the finest trilogies i have ever read.
both todd and viola grow so much as characters, it is a phenomenal series for that part alone.
Patrick Ness, that's what other writers of YA dystopian books want to be when they grow up.
3.5 stars ⭐ I liked this, it was enjoyable. I just didn’t seem to find it as mind blowing and life altering as some other readers.  “War makes monsters of men.” I was never bored, but I feel this novel could have been cut down by a few hundred pages. A good 300 pages in was just back and forth war between the people of New Prentisstown, Mistress Coyle’s group and the Spackle. But there was plenty I did like (view spoiler)[ I loved Ben’s return, (hide spoiler)] and that he had become like a messe
A good 300 pages in was just back and forth war between the people of New Prentisstown, Mistress Coyle’s group and the Spackle.
But there was plenty I did like (view spoiler)[ I loved Ben’s return,  (hide spoiler)] and that he had become like a messenger between the men and the Spackle.
Also the ending was satisfying (view spoiler)[ the Mayor finally admitting he had lost his mind after hearing the entire worlds noise most of his life, he felt he needed to destroy the world to make it quiet again.
(hide spoiler)]Entertaining, with good characters and villains, an interesting New World to experience.
EVERYTHING HURTS RIGHT NOW, DON'T TALK TO ME!!!!
Character development is far worse with Mayor Prentiss, Chaos Walking's bad guy who's meant to disturb readers with his near-unending cruelty and unhinged understanding of the world.
But Mistress Coyle is not the bad guy readers were introduced to in book one, and though she's of a similar nature to Prentiss, she is the lesser of evils, whether Ness intended for her to be or not.
While Ness accomplishes some of the latter in Monsters of Men through Todd and Viola, he struggles to portray the former because of his poor development of Mayor Prentiss.
I'm still trying to figure it out.Maybe it was series fatigue or maybe I waited too long between reading books 2 and 3 (I hate getting locked into series books, so that is a possibility).
War with the Spackle, conflict between Mayor Prentiss and Mistress Coyle, Todd and Viola don't know what to do, and round and round it goes.
Each time I picked up the book, I felt like it was Groundhog Day--I could have sworn I read the same damn thing yesterday.
Ness skillfully asks these questions without glorifying war nor necessarily vilifying it, which makes this an above average young adult read.Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
He had the schools burned… They can’t help being the way they are!” If someone were to point out that its monstrous size just covers a lot of violence, I’d (again) say, “Because that’s the way it is… Sans rainbows and robins, the world can be violent and ugly… but at least there’s some hope.” So, yes I’m probably too close to the characters; too much a loyal fan of the series to say anything unbiased about the books and the people in it.
Or more aptly, there are only people~ all capable of doing bad things; all capable of doing good things.
my heart has officially been blown up into a million little pieces.boom.
Maybe it was that all along.I have to disagree with other reviews that book two The Ask and the Answer was about Todd and Viola trusting each other.
Viola and Todd who on the surface know that what they are doing is wrong (if someone else's fault, of course) and do it anyway because the other one is supposed to come and tell them what to do.
Well, they didn't have the right question 'cause they only cared about the answer (what would Viola think?
In Monsters of Men Viola cannot trust Todd unless she can hear his thoughts.
The book was great to me when I thought that Ness knew that Todd needed to be told.
Definitivno najslabija knjiga trilogije.Malo vise me je smorio rat na 500 strana.
Communication, real and open, so we can finally understand each other for once.” So, now that I've managed to gather my thoughts a bit, I'll try and write some form of a review for the whole trilogy rather than the last instalment alone.
This book is about a boy who lives in a town of men - and men alone - where they can hear each other's thoughts.
Then he stumbles upon an 'area' and he's unable to hear their thoughts.
I feel that it is best to go into these books knowing as little as possible.
That was some solid and furious ending. Maybe a bit larger that it should’ve been but powerful in the lessons it wants to deliver, and emotional in its characters. I’m very happy I got to finish this trilogy that has so many depths under the already great superficial plot lines. Highly recomended for any YA lover looking for a mature reading.  Choices may be unbelievably hard but they’re never impossible.  Cuando un libro centra toda su historia en algo muy pequeño y lo repite mucho puede llegar
Cuando un libro centra toda su historia en algo muy pequeño y lo repite mucho puede llegar a hartar.
Una historia con mucha inocencia a pesar de las crueles tramas que tiene y las incontables situaciones duras por las que hace pasar a sus protagonistas.
Y junto con la intensidad que la escritura de Ness aporta se siente como un libro mucho más serio que el promedio YA y eso es algo que no puedo más que aplaudir.
A monster calls sigue siendo mi libro favorito del autor pero sin lugar a dudas Patrick Ness sabe llegar al corazón de sus lectores.
What a book, and what an ending!
Definitely one of my favourite literary characters.
His character development throughout this series is INSANE.
A genuinely sweet, well intentioned character, you can't help but fall in love and root for Todd.2.
All of the characters are amazing.
From the antagonists, and side characters, each had a unique purpose, and perspective in the book.
Deeper themes of war, hope, communication, love, humanity, and trust is handled beautifully.
Made the plot, and the purpose of these characters more meaningful.5.
I loved it.
An outstanding way to leave the story open-ended.
The characters, plot, and theme is well rounded.
How do I begin to describe the awesomeness of this book? When I read The Knife of Never Letting Go, I liked it A LOT... but I never imagined that book would lead us to this masterpiece. I really don't have words. Just... wow.
ya harika harika harika harika harika
Altough I have to mentioned that sometimes I didn't like how things where going between Todd and Viola but that's a spoilery thingie so we leave it as it is.It is still really hard for me to describe what I feel for the characters because none of them is flat or anything and I am sure everyone has done bad things in this book but at the end..
Todd and Viola, a good plot, mind-blowing plot twists and the world finally got more depth.“Because even the one you hate leaves an absence when they go.”To come to the world and the Spackle now...
*** 2.65 *** "...“Worst is the one who knows better and does nothing.” ..." I don't get it... I think this is the moment I figure I am reading this series wrong, because I stuck with it to the end and I still had some major issues with it. Most of all, the two teenage main characters, Tod and Viola. It is very hard to keep on reading when you strongly dislike the leading couple and where everything and everyone makes you extremely angry. I had this constant buzz, or noise, of anger simmering und
I had this constant buzz, or noise, of anger simmering under my skin, ready to explode every twentieth time Todd or Viola would say in the most dramatic and emotive way possible, the other person's name!
Todd becomes his besty, with delusions that by staying with him he will rub off some of his good will and hopes for peaceful and happy future and unity between the human fractions and the local Spekle, somehow changing President Prentice and redeeming him.
The moral ambiguity of The Knife of Never Letting Go and The Ask and the Answer (can Patrick Ness title a book or what?) continues as Todd and Viola attempt to negotiate peace among two human factions and the natives of the planet where the humans have settled.
Monsters of Men, like the first two books, is not a warm and fuzzy read, but it is a satisfying end to the trilogy, and I look forward to more books by Patrick Ness.
And…SHDAGFSAGHFDHSAGDFHASGFDSGAGDFSHGFDSHADFSAJHFSDHJGDJSAHFDSJAHGDASVCXSNABCXASHBASGDHSAGFDJGSAJDGSAJGDJSAGDGASJ THE RETURN/1017 OH GOD I LOVE HIM SAJFGHJGD OH GOD VIOLA AKQSFJGFHDAKJFGKSJADGJKDGSJG OH GOD TODD FKASHFKHASAJDFFJDJHSAFFHSAJ OH GOD LEE AKSKJHFDKJHFFJKDSHFKDHSKDHFKDHKFDHDFKDSHKHDSHDFJKFDSJHFDKHSAKGGKASHJK FUCK YOU MAYOR PRENTISS ASJKFHKJSAHFKJDHF OH TODD KAJFHAKJSFKJFHKJSAHFJDHASFKJH OH ACORN AJHSDJGDHSGHGSAJHGDSHADFASDG OH THE SKY SAJGFJSAHGDAJHSGJ OH GOD OH GOD OH GODDDD!!!Yes, uh… for those of you not quite fluent in the language of fangirl, allow me to translate.Oh my goodness that was a wonderful book, and the addition of the Spackle character allowed for a wonderful new perspective on the events in the book.
The main problem was fucker Todd and fucker Viola, they were the most selfish and vile teenagers ever — the dicks actually thought it was cool to start a war as long as it meant saving the other.
Todd's attitude towards the Spackle was fucked up, he thought they were animals, and was cool with hurting and enslaving them.
A dead rat could lead better than those two selfish fuckery fucks.-Viola only cared about male characters, it was all about Todd, Liam, Bradley and Wilf.
... I don't know what to say. What a wonderful series.
5 effing Stars for Monsters of Men and 4.9 Stars for the entire series.WOW....just Wow. This is one of those books or actually it is an entire series that I will have the most difficult time putting into words how fantastic it is.  There are so many great moments and beautiful writing that I'm amazed by it all.The thing about war is there is never a winner. Both sides lose; the winner is the one that loses the least. Ness did a fantastic job of showing the lengths that people go to for what they
5 effing Stars for Monsters of Men and 4.9 Stars for the entire series.WOW....just Wow. This is one of those books or actually it is an entire series that I will have the most difficult time putting into words how fantastic it is.
Out of this whole planet, you're the only thing that matters.”“Sizewise, she's always been just smaller than me.But I think of her and I feel like she's as big as the world.”The Mayor is such a complex villain, manipulative and cunning to the point you almost think maybe he can be redeemed at times.
This one time, Monsters of Men punched me in the face. It was awesome.  Proper review to come (eventually). [Note: By "proper" I mean probably full of italics, caps, uncontrolled flailing about, and the literary equivalent of high pitched screeching].Start making my t-shirt, Jo!
It dragged a little bit in the middle, but I still enjoyed it a lot. a new favorite series for sure
