https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37775.Girls_at_War_and_Other_Stories
Chinua Achebe's short stories show various situations in which young girls and women try to figure out how to navigate in a community that has no intention of letting them think and choose for themselves.Bleak?
But he also, indirectly, shows their will to change their lives, their wish for a better future, their belief in justice and education no matter what their private fate is.Between the mayhem of civil war and cultural clashes, he shows young girls who think for themselves and play their cards well, according to the hand they are given.And he shows that the misogyny - a fundamental part of Nigerian society - is just as rooted in the "progressive" colonists' culture as in the traditions of the different tribes.The most backwards-striving character is a father who pushes away his son for choosing a bride out of love, not out of filial duty, and he is a devout Christian, adopting the colonial religion word for word:"Teacher, did you say?
Why, you check out another book, a short story collection by an author whose 'opus' is a novel you read over a decade ago for your World Civilizations course, and which you remember slightly less than the conversations you and your friend had about the guy in Buddy Holly glasses two rows behind who your friend wanted to make out with, and who you found out years later was the childhood best friend of the first boy who would eventually break your heart.
War is a theme that I have a hard time getting to read and like in any kind of literature.
Once in a while, though, a story or book about war comes up in my reading that draws me in regardless of the pain and suffering it tells.
I am drawn to the women, like Gladys, who do what they can to survive and live another day.
Only survival rules, and to survive people would do things regardless of their previous lives and convictions.
Things become upside down in war, including people.
Another thing I like in this book is Achebe’s descriptions of people and setting.
Chinua Achebe died today, and being a great believer in the maxim that dead authors live on in their books, I thought I would do my bit by reading something he wrote.When I was in high school, I read Things Fall Apart and strongly disliked it.
Now, as a (semi) adult, I enjoyed Girls At War much more than Things Fall Apart.
There were two or three stories that I simply didn't understand (particularly Chike's School Days and Uncle Ben's Choice), but there were also two or three stories that made me cry (Girls At War and Vengeful Creditor) and two or three that resonated very strongly with me (Civil Peace, Marriage is a Private Affair).
“Obi’s wife replied, “We shall have such beautiful gardens and everything will be just modern and delightful.” The book states that Obi’s wife was thinking already that the other wives “would envy her position.” While making some changes to the school and around it Obi decides to close the footpath because he sees no sense to it.
Obi asked, “What will the Government Education Officer think of this when he comes to inspect the school next week?” The priest asks Obi to reopen the path.
With this power Obi wants to make changes and that’s fine but, when the priest tries to warn him about the path he is ignorant.
Clearly the ebook was not 128 pages. Only 68 or there about. I loved the book but I hated the pigensglish because I couldn't even infer what was being said from the narration. But these are great stories. Some of them are too short and others ended just as the story seemed to be picking up. The shelling remark had me wondering what the woman meant and it took more reading for me to get the meaning. Such an expression.I will never forget the story of Akueke. She sure had spunk!
So reading a book of short stories by Achebe is a great way to delve into little aspects of 20th century life there and to chide oneself for one's ignorance.
Like, when you're reading short stories that take place during "the war" and you have to think, hmmm, am I sure about which war we're talking about here ?
I think my favorite stories were "The Voter," "The Madman," and "Vengeful Creditor." They're all a little depressing, because humanity is depressing, but also inspiring, because Chinua Achebe didn't give up on humanity, which is nice of him.
While reading this collection of short stories, many which centered on the hopes and disappointments of education, I was repeatedly reminded of the "you don't need college" schtick of Rick Santorum, or that other fool, Andrew Sullivan, who once posted an article by a burnt out adjunct, entitled "Please!
Don't go to college." Sullivan was smugly riding the words of its author, an exhausted composition teacher, who had he decent benefits and fair compensation for the work he'd now concluded was meaningless, would have likely retained some of his commitment to his students.
Achebe's stories, all written before 1972, are early work, and though a few are didactic, most are vivid and offer great insight in the daily life of African natives, shedding light on the influences of colonization and the Biafran War in the 60s. Of particular interest is "The Madman."
"The Sacrificial Egg", set in the midst of a horrible smallpox plague, has a greater sense of direness and action than most of the other earlier stories, but most of them come from an almost tranquil place, which I found a little harder to access.There's a real enjoyment in these 'social portrait' stories, please don't misunderstand me.
Instead of feeling small and distancing as it might have in the earlier stories, the narrator's harsh judgment of Cletus seems absolute and total.
Maybe I am a victim of the small-minded dependency on war culture that Hedges described, but these three stories are those that most struck me in this beautiful little book.
I mean... it was okay, I guess? There wasn't anything to hate or dislike, but there wasn't anything to love or like either. So... \_(ツ)_/
I mean... it was okay, I guess? There wasn't anything to hate or dislike, but there wasn't anything to love or like either. So... ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
إﻻ أن اﻹشكالية العميقة بين السود والمستعمر اﻷبيض ﻻتنفك تتعقد نتيجة التناقض فيما دعى له المبشرون والممارسات المعاكسة من قبل البيض، والتي آبانت عن طمع فيما تمتلكه تلك اﻷرض ونظرة دونية ﻷبنائها!.لعل هذه الجملة من قصة أنا وبابا والثعبان لبي ال هونوانا تبين مدى السخط لديهم تجاه تسلط المستعمرين وهيمنتهم على حياتهم:[ ﻻ يهم أيتها اﻷم، لكن ابننا يظن أن الناس ﻻ يركبون الخيول الجامحة، وأنهم ﻻ يستغلون إﻻ الجوعى ومن ﻻ حول لهم، ومع ذلك عندما يجمح حصان خارج السيطرة يطلقون عليه النار وينتهي اﻷمر، لكن الخيول المروضة تموت كل يوم، هل تسمعني؟]..
Chinua Achebe includes severalshort stories in this book that displays the heart and soul of life in Nigeria.
When you begin each story it feels as if you are beginning a different novel.
There is the feeling that there is more to the story than what has been told thus far.
Chinua Achebe has the ability though to help readers travel to Nigeria and experience what the culture would be and learn about traditions that are held onto.
While the stories have different storylines, they all have a commn theme: tradition verses modernism in his country.
It was a sad day when Chinua Achebe passed away. This is another fruit of his literary brilliance. It's a collection of short stories set in Nigeria Igbo culture. The stories run through the Biafran War. Before during and after. Some are better than others. The narrative is economical and muscular - concise sentences that hold more words than are written. The characters are colorful and different, giving a deeper looking into their lives than one would expect from stories only a few pages long. The whole book is just over 100 pages, an easy in a few hours.
I'd never had a chance to see Achebe's short work before and I liked it. Like his longer work, he gives a great sense of the humanity of these people trying to survive in a world that is sometimes humorous though often heartrending, unfeeling, and hostile. It may not have the same scope as Achebe's longer work, completely obviously since these are short stories, but there's some good stuff in here and it shines all the same.
Some stories are a bit weaker than others, but overall this is a great collection of stories from Nigeria and Biafra that reflect life lessons and challenges that are similar to those faced everywhere, albeit in slightly different settings.
These stories were of varying quality. Not all held my attention, but the ones that did made quite an impact, particularly the story of a young girl who would (quite literally) kill to go to school. The title story, “Girls at War,” was also one of the more powerful tales in the collection.
Except for two or three stories I didn't like it so much.
While some of these stories possessed a charming quality, most of them seemed to end abruptly and seemed unfinished. Short stories weren't Achebe's forte, and he says as much in the introduction to this edition. I'm reading through all his work this year, and I'd put this super short collection on the low end of the scale of his works that you "must read"
3.5 stars. I enjoyed it a lot but wasn't blown away. Will likely read more in the future.
Obi’s perspective is that of change and progressiveness, which in respect to the circumstances at play, is not innately wrong.
The priest’s perspective is that of conservatism and tradition, which in and of itself is also not a wrong notion, again, with respect to the circumstances.
I think the priest was right, but he could’ve also taken a deeper look into the opposing perspective (which may be harder since he has unwavering loyalty to the town, and Obi’s arrogance/stubbornness basically radiated off of him), which could’ve been a great opportunity for him to propose a common ground for the sake of the village.
There are stories like Madman, set in tribal villages where the men have several wives and send them to the market to sell goods.
One story, Sugar Baby, involves a man who finds the lack of sugar in the war difficult to cope with and rots his teeth with excessive sweet things after the war.
Tribal loyalties even forbid intermarriage, and children are disowned in the community, to the point where a man does not see his mother for a dozen years.
One story involves a clerk in 1919 during a smallpox epidemic who escapes the disease, although his fiancé and mother do not.
We see a shift from stories that discuss clashes between traditional Igbo culture and 'modernity' to stories about inequality, poor governance, and the civil war.
I found 'Girls at War' particularly moving and tragic because of its realistic portrayal (albeit through the perspective of a man) of a young woman's journey of patriotism and survival during the civil war.
I also appreciate the realistic glimpse into the societal containment of women's offered skills during the Biafran war, as well as the steep differences in the way the poor and the rich/powerful experienced the war, even in the Eastern region.
Great collection of stories spanning his first 20 years of writing (including a couple pieces from his university days).
It's a pretty slender volume and left me wanting to pick up continuing volumes of his short stories.
It was like palm-wine.
Mary could not manage palm-kernels on her own account yet so Vero half-chewed them first before passing them on to her.
But even after the food and the kernels and the grasshoppers and the bowls of water Mary was rarely satisfied, even though her belly would be big and tight like a drum and shine like a mirror."
The strongest of this collection, three (and maybe four) of these stories succeed in Chinua Achebe's goal to preserve the memory of the Nigerian Civil War and the effect it had on its people.
In each of the stories he is also looking forward, willing to point out in his frank honest style the specificity of the failures of leadership and the still-present danger of self-preservation and greed to meaningful change.
His other stories are strong as well, and reflect familiar themes of the importance of education and the necessity of change in order for society to thrive.
There is good growth and there is bad growth.
The belly does not bulge out only with food and drink; it might be the abominable disease which would end by sending its sufferer our of the house even before he was fully dead.
46)I wanted to remember why I loved Achebe so much after the mild letdown of his memoir, There Was A Country: A Personal History of Biafra.
This is why: stark, simple presentation of symbolically loaded stories that he never unpacks for the reader.
Like Hemingway, I prefer it when he shows, as here, rather than tells, as there.
A nice collection of short stories from Achebe. I wasn't quite fascinated by the content, as it seemed to be a set of recurring ideas linked strongly to Igbo culture and their way of life, which is probably very distinct in most of Achebe's works. However, I loved a couple of references that led me back to the days when I was much younger and would curl up with my copy of 'Things Fall Apart' when there was nothing else to read. 'The Madman' wasmy favourite, closely followed by 'Girls At War'. Three stars.
A very sad story took place in eastern Nigeria, just after the civil war has ended, What Nigerians went through that time was more horrific than the Great Depression. 1000s of bodies were piling up each day and there was no law to protect the civilians from outlaws and rebels. Protagonist of this story, Jonathan Iwegbu, a willful family man, is trying to make ends meet with his family, trying to build up their wounded lives. And its a very difficult task to accomplish with the corrupted people around him.
I read this book because I read "Things Fall Apart" and I really enjoyed it, so I thought I would like this one too, but I was so wrong. I didn't like it at all.It is a short book of short stories but except for one or two, I thought they were one worse than the other.I expected more of this book, but I ended up disappointed. It was slow, dense and uninteresting. The stories were downright boring.
*Girls* is a short-story collection, chronicling with everyday life in 50's - 60's Nigeria. Actually, they're vignettes rather than stories, serving more to illustrate the political corruption and the effects of missionaries of that time. It was an ok read, if a bit dry. A few exceptional passages were: "Vengeful Creditor", "Civil Peace", and "Sugar Baby".I much preferred Achebe's *Things Fall Apart*, though I can't really say why.
