https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21.A_Short_History_of_Nearly_Everything
For example, careful examination reveals that The Odyssey and The Gospel according to Saint Mark are primitive versions of Percy Jackson and the Sea of Monsters and Bared to You. Similar relationships have been shown to obtain for all modern books.Problems arise, however, from the fact that these archaic protobooks still exist today; indeed, some have adapted to the e-reader environment and begun to thrive there.
It is entirely too easy for an unsuspecting internet shopper to purchase a copy of Pride and Prejudice, incorrectly believing that it is part of the Twilight series.
Good grief if I had even one textbook half this enthralling in high school, who knows what kind of impassioned -ologist I would have grown up to be.
I hereby petition Bryson to re-write all curriculum on behalf of the history of the world.I would run across things half-remembered from midterms and study guides and think, "You mean this is what they were talking about?
How fantastic little we know about the world in which we live.
All the great scientific leaps fallen through the cracks, all the billions of leaps that will never be made, every scientist who with an amiable grin shrugs to say, "I don't know.
We don't know.
Okay, so here's my Bill Bryson story.
A guy approached our table and asked me in a sly surreptitious manner if I was him.
Now it is true that I bear a very slight resemblancebut you could also say that about Bjorn from Abbaand a zillion other white guys with beards and gently rounded fizzogs.
So the guy immediately asked me if I'd sign two of his books, and before I could say "Come on mate, I'm not actually American, can't you bleedin well tell?" he had zapped out of the pub.
Friends, I signed them - "Best wishes, your friend Bill Bryson".
What I learned from this book (in no particular order)1. Phosphor was accidentally discovered when a scientist tried to turn human urine into gold. The similarity in color seemed to have been a factor in his conviction that this was possible. Like, duh. I’m no scientist, but shouldn’t it be obvious enough?2. “In the early 1800s there arose in England a fashion for inhaling nitrous oxide, or laughing gas, after it was discovered that its use ‘ was attended by a highly pleasurable thrilling’. For
Throw away those yoga mats, your ARE already levitating without knowing it.6.
The image of Ms. Parton with her, uh, cosmic mammaries bouncing around the atomic nuclei is VERY unsettling.Thankfully, that scientist guy changed his mind.7.
* Note to self: must throw away sea monster perfume collection*8.
The ‘maidenhair’ in maidenhair moss does NOT refer to the hair on the maiden’s head.BUT SERIOUSLY,this is a fascinating, accessible book on the history of the natural sciences, covering topics as diverse as cosmology, quantum physics, paleontology, chemistry and other subjects that have bedeviled a science dolt like me through high school and beyond.
A book on science written by a non-scientist, this a perfect bridge between the humanities and the natural sciences.
When name-dropping, Bryson always gives a short description of the person in question; if mentioned earlier in the book, he drops in a quick reminder to the reader.
This is fabulously effective at giving the names some context, not to mention a little personality.And indeed, isn't that what science education needs most: more humanity and less intimidation?
Those science-phobes out there who freely admit their near-complete ignorance of the subject should do themselves a favor and buy a copy of this book.

The author is incredibly entertaining, and I came across dozens of great stories from the history of science.
But I hadn't heard that Newton intentionally made it as difficult as possible to read because he didn't want amateurs bothering him, or that Halley's reward was to be told by the Royal Society that since they could no longer afford to pay his salary in pounds sterling, he would instead be given remaindered copies of The History of Fishes.
A Short History of Nearly Everything is Bill Bryson's summation of life, the universe, and everything, a nice little easy-reading science book containing an overview of things every earthling should be aware of.As I've repeatedly mentioned over the years, every time one of the casual-readers tells me I have to read something, like Harry Potter or the DaVinci Code, I dig my feet in deeper and resolve to never read it.
His easy, breezy style makes even the most complicated topics easier to digest.It's not often that I come away from a book having felt like I learned something new, criminal techniques from my usual reads excepted.
Picked this up on audiobook when I was on tour and listened to it in my car. I found it fascinating and informative. Kinda like a reader's digest version of the history of science. And even though I knew a fair chunk of what was mention, there was a lot of material I'd never even had a glimmer of before. Fair warning: If you are prone to worry about, say, the end of the world. This probably isn't the book for you.
It was one of the bestselling popular science books of 2005 in the United Kingdom, selling over 300,000 copies.عنوانها: تاریخچه تقریبا همه چیز؛ شرح مختصری از همه چیز؛ علم و سرگذشت آن؛ نویسنده: بیل برایسون؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه جولای سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: تاریخچه تقریبا همه چیز؛ نویسنده: بیل برایسون؛ مترجم: محمدتقی فرامرزی؛ تهران، مازیار، 1384، در 615 ص، شابک: 9645676487؛ موضوع: علوم به زبان ساده - سده 21 معنوان: شرح مختصری از همه چیز؛ نویسنده: بیل برایسون؛ مترجم: محمود زنجانی؛ تهران، دایره المعارف ایرانشناسی، 1388، در 512 ص، شابک: 9786005204155؛عنوان: علم و سرگذشت آن؛ نویسنده: بیل برایسون؛ مترجم: مجید عمیق؛ تهران، مهراب قلم: کتابهای مهتاب، 1390، در 171 ص، شابک: 9786001033636؛نقل از متن: نمیدانستم پروتون یا پروتئین چیست، کوارک را از کواسار تشخیص نمیدادم، نمیدانستم زمینشناسها چگونه میتوانند نگاهی به یک لایه از توده سنگ دیواره ی یک دره بیندازند، و عمر آن را تشخیص دهند، حقیقتاً هیچ چیز نمیدانستم.
این همواره بزرگترین شگفتی زندگی ام بوده است ـ دانشمندان چگونه از مسایل سر درمیآورند...
I probably shouldn't say this, but it puts such problems as global climate change into context when you read how an eruption of the supervolcano beneath Yellowstone National Park would wipe out most of the life on earth in a painfully slow manner; especially when Bryson describes how this eruption is overdue by 30, 000 years by historical average.Combined with those two new impressions, I am left with the following conclusions, and a slightly rearranged outlook on life.First off, it is clear that science benefits from a large degree of serendipity.
It's what I want to do.So, in an incredible way (that even Bill Bryson probably didn't predict) this book can really change your life.
The book walks through just about every significant scientific discovery from the creation of the universe to the present day.
Well, not quite the present day, given this book was published some fourteen years ago.
But given the universe is currently thought to be some 13.7 billion years old, I’m comfortable it covers the mother lode.The list of sciences included is exhaustive, I spotted whole bunch but I’m also convinced I missed a few.
Want a whirlwind worldwide romance adventure minus the romance? This is the book for you.This book really does cover nearly everything. From the Big Bang to current life on earth, Bill Bryson does wonderful job of breaking down complex theories and concepts to their essential message: Protons give an atom its identity, electrons its personality. Though, sometimes he  gets a bit wordy. Not one of your pertinent ancestors was squashed, devoured, drowned, starved, stranded, stuck fast, untimely wou
From the Big Bang to current life on earth, Bill Bryson does wonderful job of breaking down complex theories and concepts to their essential message:
This was such an interesting book to read and I walked away learning so much.
This is the sort of book that requires two or three times reading through it to fully understand and digest everything.
Audiobook Comments:While he did not narrate his own book, the Richard Matthews does a great job of reading it.
This is a great big-picture book.
For a fun microhistory, I'd recommend  At Home: A Short History of Private Life also by Bill Bryson.Blog | Instagram | Twitter

2.5 Stars This is probably going to make me sound as thick as two short planks but I didn't like it, I knew going into this book that it was going to be a challenge as Science is not really my preferred bedtime reading but I do think its good to try new things but unfortunately yes this was just hard work for me and I struggled through this one.
I will probably tell the other half that I gave it 5 stars :-) This book is extremely well written and researched and for those interested in science I am sure this is an amazing read as Bill Bryson travels through time and space to explain the world, the universe and everything.
"تبارك الله أحسن الخالقين"هذا ما ستنطقه شفتاك حين تنتهي من كل فصل من فصول هذا الكتاب ستشعر بكم العجز
A fascinating history of science. Ever curious how everything we know about the world came to be - read this! I loved reading about what old greats like Darwin thought about the world - they were all right about most things, but also very wrong about some things - makes you wonder how much we are wrong about today!Another interesting piece was how many of the world's prominent scientists had the time to do their research because they came from rich families. Very different from todays notion of 'trust funders'.
از عنوان شروع کنیمعنوان کتاب تقریبا گویای همهچیز هست. نویسنده نزدیک سه سال به شکل حیرتآوری حجم عظیمی از کتابهای علمی توی رشتههای مختلف رو خونده و به جاهای مختلف سر زده و تقریبا توی تمام شاخههای اصلی علم روز دنیا حداقل سی چهل صفحهای نوشتهآیا این کتاب ارتباطی به ما دارد؟خوب. این یه سوال جدی برای من بود. چون شخصا هیچ ارتباطی با کتابهای علمی نداشتم و ندارم. اما خیلی وسوسهانگیزه که کتابی رو بخونی که توش عصارهی همهی علوم گنجونده شده باشه. کتابهایی که به این شکل وجه دایرهالمعارفی دارن این فرصت رو به خو
نویسنده نزدیک سه سال به شکل حیرت‌آوری حجم عظیمی از کتاب‌های علمی توی رشته‌های مختلف رو خونده و به جاهای مختلف سر زده و تقریبا توی تمام شاخه‌های اصلی علم روز دنیا حداقل سی چهل صفحه‌ای نوشتهآیا این کتاب ارتباطی به ما دارد؟خوب.
با همه‌ی این احوال قطعا تاریخچه‌ی تقریبا همه چیز کتاب خوبیه.
نویسنده انسان شوخ و دوست‌داشتنی‌ای هست و سعی کرده جا به جا از اتفاق‌های جالب علمی بگه که شاید توی متون "رسمی" علمی هیچ‌وقت ازشون صحبتی به میون نمیاد [بخش‌هایی از همین تیکه‌ها رو تو استتوس‌هام می‌تونید پیدا کنید].
The best thing about this book is that it introduces other books you would like. It showed me that I should probably read more about Newton and Einstein, and that astronomy is something that I am still interested in. I did find myself scanning through certain sections because I already understood them well (the vastness of the universe) or I don't think I will ever understand them (complicated aspects of biology). Like all science book, they get outdated fast but this one is still holding up, at least for now.
Success depended on enough provisions being transferred from West camp to Eismitte ("mid-ice") for two men to winter there, and this was a factor in the decision that led to his death.
On 24 September, although the route markers were by now largely buried under snow, Wegener set out with thirteen Greenlanders and his meteorologist Fritz Loewe to supply the camp by dog sled.
There being only enough supplies for three at Eismitte, Wegener and Rasmus Villumsen took two dog sleds and made for West camp.
Villumsen buried Wegener’s body in the snow and marked the grave with skis.
Secondly, this book should be read with some frequency.
This is my second time reading it and I plan on doing it again next year.
Bryson's light, common man’s writing style “scats” from universal, to global, to biological with a loosely constructed cause and effect outline.
His books (thankfully, including this one) are all peppered with wit and charm and a heavy snatch of sarcasm.
I feel like he wrote this book for me and I hope he writes 10 more just like this.
Imagine the fun he had writing this book as he allowed his mind to logically wormhole through and across time!
Stunning in scope and execution. Loved every page of it, even geology was made exciting. That really is some feat.
La vita dell'umanità come la conosciamo noi, se rapportata alla vita della Terra, ha una durata praticamente inesistente."Se immaginiamo di comprimere i quattromilacinquecento milioni di anni di storia della Terra in un normale giornata di 24 ore, la vita compare molto presto, intorno alle quattro del mattino, con l'emergere dei primi semplici organismi unicellulari.
Subito dopo, quando rimangono solo due ore, compaiono le prime creature terrestri.Grazie a una decina di minuti caratterizzati da un clima mite, alle dieci e ventiquattro la Terra è coperta dalle grandi foreste del Carbonifero dai cui residui deriva tutto il nostro carbone, e sono evidenti i primi insetti alati.
In high school, I had to work harder in my biology and chemistry classes, whereas English, history and social studies always came more easily to me.Bill Bryson's "A Short History of Nearly Everything" is a good overview of all the science classes I didn't take (or don't remember) in college.
If you can find it, I highly recommend reading the illustrated edition."A Short History" was first published in 2003, and at the time, it was a big change from Bryson's previous travelogues.
If you're reading this, Bryson, please, take a trip somewhere.
A really interesting book. Bryson succeeds in explaining some complex topics in such a way that they can be understood by the layman. I enjoyed this one a great deal. If I had one complaint it would be that some of the tangents were allowed to run on a bit too long, to the point where I almost forgot what the author was talking about in the first place.
How can a book about the history of science fuck up the science?!Number 2 is just downright sad.
it's just a meandering of random scientific endeavors, somewhat brought into chronology.Number 3 is a difficult criticism, because with this kind of book, it is hard to get away from misc.
I don't even want to sell this book back, but throw it away (and I thought I would never say something like that)!
Let's see.So far, this book shows its 2003 date by providing currently inaccurate data; I also did not realize the author would assume zero scientific knowledge on the part of the reader...
While reading it, one might wish to remember all its content, but it's written in a way allowing the reader to pick up the volume and start reading at any point, according to his interests, though Bryson relays all subjects in captivating and available way, with a big dose of humor.This is a weighty book - 600 pages - but Bryson's not joking.
In the introduction, Bryson recalls his childhood and remembers how he was fascinated by the image of a cross-section of our planet, but at the same time put down by the nature of the book that contained it.
يقدم الكاتب كل ذلك بطريقة سردية جميلة جدًا ومبسطة بدون معادلات أو مصطلحات معقدة ولكنها دقيقة وعميقة في نفس الوقت.إذا قررت قراءة هذا الكتاب فاستعد للانبهار بتاريخ الاكتشافات العلمية والاستماع لقصص العلماء وعبقريتهم وأخطائهم القاتلة وبعض الحقائق المضحكة، بل وحتى بعض قصص المنافسة غير الشريفة.نشر الكتاب في عام 2003 ولذلك فهناك تطورات علمية حصلت اذكر منها التالي:1.
لم يذكر الكاتب دور "آر إن إي" في الفرضيات التي تتناول ظهور الحياة
At one point the text says about the planet, “For all the instability, it’s mostly remarkably and amazingly tranquil.” Understatement!Although Mr. Bryson appropriately does not explore or accept or reject the idea of a Creator (that is not the realm of science anyway) and after reading this book the myriad of improbable, impossible and /or unexplainable intricacies of the universe, nature on earth and life itself have only deepened my belief in a Creator who put all these processes in motion.
responsible?) people, I prefer to read about science from people who actually practice science.
Bill Bryson is the only exception though because he's an exceptionally gifted writer who just happens to share my sense of humor--that the end is nigh and that maybe is not necessarily such a terrible thing.
Terrible for humanity, sure, but not for the planet.
If you don't walk away from this book believing humanity is doomed, because how can we possibly fix all we've ruined, then you are much more optimistic than I am.I read this book last year and liked it so much that I picked up the audio for a reread.
