https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27213329-grit
And so Duckworth ends up having to sell her "grit" mantra as the secret to success, with unlimited power to overcome all obstacles.At one point, Duckworth tells the story of a waitress who rolled up her sleeves and learned to work every job in the restaurant as needed and got promoted to general manager of the restaurant and now runs a Fortune 500 company.
I can tell another story, where a waitress learned to work every job in the restaurant, but management gave the general manager job to the son of the regional vice president.
It was hard to pay attention to or stick with because most of the chapters seemed the same.But perhaps I haven't learned enough grittiness yet.
I had high hopes for this book, initially believing that it would have new (to me) insights along the lines of what I found in Carol Dweck's book "Mindset" and Charles Duhigg's "The Power of Habit." Sadly, this book falls quite flat with entirely too much repetition of a singular topic.If you want a tl;dr version of the book, it comes down to this: don't give up.
She puts forth that for an individual to develop grit, they must endeavor to partake in an exercise in which they have interest, can practice, have passion, and hope of doing well.The singular idea of 'grit' is an interesting one to inspect, but this book ends up feeling like more of a pop psychology exercise in self reflection than anything truly profound.
Duckworth also talks about gritty people feeling as if they have a core mission or purpose to their life, and I was inspired by this chapter to write my own mission, and it's positively affected how I think about my work.
I highly recommend this book to those interested in education, psychology or personal growth.Favorite Quote"You can grow your grit 'from the inside out': You can cultivate your interests.
You can also grow your grit 'from the outside in.' Parents, coaches, teachers, bosses, mentors, friends -- developing your personal grit depends critically on other people."
In summarizing her findings that predictions of academic success based on talent are less reliable than her own grit scale, she repeatedly uses high school grades and SAT scores to quantify talent, which again is less important to success than resilience and passion.
Disappointed to read this in the acknowledgments:"First and foremost, I want to thank my collaborators.
I wrote this book in the first-person singular, using "I" when, in fact, pretty much everything I've done as a researcher or writer was accomplished by a plurality.
The "we" who deserve credit -- in particular coauthors on published research -- are named individually in Notes.
On their behalf, I extend a heartfelt thanks to our research teams who, collectively, made this research possible."Wow, way to bury the gratitude and acknowledgment of people who are your research coauthors!Also, looks like there are several challenges to the importance/influence of Grit.
Human beings love magic, the idea of a gift, natural talent and to be swept off their feet by a stunning piece of music or witnessing a person doing something no one has ever managed to do before.
We like to believe that there is an innate natural gift that allows some people to stand out of the crowd.
She does not deny that natural talents exist but that at the end of the day, the aim is not to be the next Mozart, Dickens or Usain Bolt but rather to learn to put significant effort in what you like so that you reach your personal potential which is so much richer and wider than most of us believe.
Her theory has been challenged by other studies with equally intriguing findings which suggest that grit is not a trait that can be easily influenced because it's mostly determined by genetics while Duckworth claims that it's something that can be learned and trained.
Based on my experience and that of the people around me, I realized this kind of thinking was detrimental to our development and throughout the years I've learned that people are so much more adaptable and can achieve so much more when they simply try harder and they believe they can make it, which is the opposite of what I've been taught to believe.
I saw one review critique this book for focusing rather narrowly on American success stories, a culture and environment that differs greatly from many parts of the world.
These two areas are just examples of a broader analysis I want to see - how much is Duckworth's study of "grit" limited to a certain entitled, well-to-do section of modern American society?
I do like the brief discussion on the importance of culture and gritty environments in sports and businesses.
Is this useful outside of building up an otherwise entitled generation of American kids or helping business people “be gritty!
While some agree (see books such as Talent is Overrated: What Really Separates World-Class Performers from Everybody Else, and Helping Children Succeed: What Works and Why, among others) critics have both questioned her research or dismissed it as nothing more than the sage old advice that's been around for ages: "Work hard and never give up."I found this book to be very engaging and inspiring, not only for my own aspirations but also in thinking about the values and skills I hope to instill in my children.
For the many critics of Duckworth and her theory of Grit, I say: read this book.
Angela Duckworth writes: "This book has been my way of taking you out for a coffee and telling you what I know." To me, this coffee date pacified off and will be repeated a few times.
This book is filled with the science of Grit (Duckworth is a scientist after all), as well as countless stories about Grit.
I will have to read the book again to internalize the science of it all.
If you inspire more grit in your life, this book is a good way to find focus, inspiration and guidance.
There are painful moments where she pays lip-service to socioeconomic and racial diversity issues that clearly interfere with her measurements of 'grit', as she narrowly defines it.
People may find her book and research inspiring because it draws you away from fixating on talent as the key determinant of success.
Grit can manifest in many ways that do not show up in neither occupational achievement, or her favored measurements of it.
For the privileged (likely most of her readership), her research could make sense, but for many others, her recommendations will come across as disingenuous.
I loved this so much more than I thought I would! It's a must-read for teachers and writers. Actually, I would recommend it to anyone who is working toward a big goal, especially if they've experienced some setbacks.
There’s even a Grit questionnaire to assess how gritty you are.
I’m moderately gritty BTW - happily mediocre.
It seems like a hearty admonishment of work and stick-to-it-ness that appeals to my Asian upbringing - Duckworth herself is raised by Chinese immigrants.
And like all the best pop-psych books there’s lots of anecdotes from folks at the top of their game.
Truly gritty paragons.
Perseverance and passion - perhaps distilled down to this it’s nothing new but nonetheless an engrossing read that got me thinking of where I could be grittier and how to raise grittier kids.
ironically, i wish i hadnt persevered to finish this.
I would love to think of the simple formula of perserverence + passion = success, as being something that is so widely adopted that those are the only things truly necessary for success.
(Then maybe I could know for sure whether it was the environment or my own personal grittiness that posed as an obstacle to my growth, but that's the scientist in me talking) The most important part of this book I think is the fact that she stresses how building grittiness is possible, and oh so readily available.
A great little book about determination and mindset. Not a 5 star as for me at least, there were too many long-winded examples and not enough concrete techniques to battle failure, to get up the eighth time. But eye-opening and a great book for an educator to read! I think I need to read Dweck!
Angela Duckworth this calls stick-to-it-iveness “grit.” (I’m not too keen on the word, itself.) Her method of reaching more or less the same conclusion involves more science and even a couple of equations: Talent + Effort = Skill AND Skill + Effort = Achievement.
She provides a lot of ways to think about identifying life goals and how to achieve them.
The book contains both research findings and interesting anecdotes about successful people.
And, by the way, Duckworth is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation “Genius Grant.” Her research is more complex and nuanced than my summary (or even her book) might suggest and has many implications for teaching and learning.
I loved the lessons in this book.
If you haven't seen Duckworth's ted talk, find it now.
This is pretty straight forward: you need grit to be successful.
It is a bit more nuanced and Duckworth interviews various people in various professions that have all become successful because they have grit.
This is like the book Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking in that it teaches you a different way of guiding your own life, your kids' lives and, if you teach, your students' lives.
I am eager to see if she follows this up.
I liked this approach to GRIT. This is nonfiction and when I counted how many discs this was for the audio, I thought it was going to feel so, so long...but it didn't. I found this fascinating. I'm not familiar with the author or her work, but I thought this was eloquently written. She covered all her points and didn't get all technical, but considered the regular people who wold probably read this. This is a book that I think I may need to read again, because there was so much info and a lot of it was useful.
Takeaway message: find your passion and work hard. The title already told everything. It's a good book but the idea is not so new, even though it concerns about a fairly new concept named grit. Nonetheless, it's a good book esp. for those who haven't read a lot of psychology books before, and parents.
The book was just really tough to get through. Not because it's hard to understand or anythingggg but it fell flat on so many pages. It didn't really get me thinking deep and most of the ideas she presented seemed meh. You legit need grit to get through the book. All respect to her tho.
I have more to say about this but won’t ramble any more on goodreads about it.Anyhow, by focusing so much on career, the book kind of lost its way, and missed a good opportunity to talk deeply about “grit” in general in life, to talk about how this is impacted by socioeconomics/culture/race, to talk about social support or the lack thereof and how we as a society can work to change it, and, ultimately, to really help people move forward from difficult times, even if they don't have the people or environment to help them do so.
I guess if you really have something to prove you might be interested in reading this book.
I found it a snoozer and I felt a little sorry for the author who appears to be obsessed with the topic of achievement.
Perhaps I'm too much of a slacker to appreciate the power of " grit", but I think my real issue is tethering grit to " success", because I'm not sure I agree with the author's definition of success.
Not sure I learned anything here I didn't already know.
This book did not live up to high expectations that I had after watching the author's clips and presentations on TedTalk. I would like to say that it is a material for a good discussion with teenagers, but, sadly, they would need to have developed a lot of grit of their own in order to read through it.
As turns out, I'm pretty gritty. Who knew?
The writer comes across as self-righteous and talks too much about sport. However, I thought it worth reading for chapter 6 on "Interest" - her comments on following your passion are quite nuanced.
Duckworth asserts the value of grit through its utility to provide a tangible benefit, namely success.
A second problem I had with this book is the use of Professional Football Coach, Pete Carroll as a paradigm of grit.
While unquestionably a fierce competitor, Carroll's collegiate coaching career is littered with a number of major cheating scandals, surely the diametric opposite of grit, that go unmentioned by Duckworth.
All this being said, grit, and more generally growth mindset, are important tools, not a panacea, toward reaching achievement in all of the spheres of your life.
I've been on a self-improvement reading kick lately, really for the first time in my life.
I've discovered, to my surprise, that most of the books are backed-up by studies, which are in themselves fascinating and quite helpful.
This book I was less impressed with, because despite the interesting studies and papers it discusses, the "advice" portion was all circular reasoning and remarkably unhelpful: "How do you get grit?
Don't give up!" That's like, "How do you find your way to the grocery store?
Still, I found this book less helpful than I anticipated, especially given the stratospheric reviews.
In yet another take on "talent is nothing if you don't work hard", the book is a result of a social study about the importance of perseverance to achieve success.
I wouldn't say the book is bad, and there was certainly a lot of work done in the research (by many of the author's colleagues who she briefly thanks in the beginning before stating that the book is told from first person perspective) but I haven't really learned anything new.If you'd like to read the success stories, the book is plentiful.
If you'd like to know about gritty people who weren't successful, there are none.
