https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30821598-my-not-so-perfect-life
This particular read was a little bit different than her previous books; while she is heavily known for her Shopaholic series and other fluffy chick lit, this book was a little more serious and less ditzy.
I liked picking up a new Kinsella with no ties to another series and I applaud her for taking a leap and trying something a bit out of her comfort zone.
If you are looking for a relaxing, easy read, this is a great book to pick up.
Until Demeter shows up with her family for a holiday and Katie is forced to confront the fact that she might have misjudged her all along.Everything I've written here is just a rehash of the blurb, and yet it is almost the entire plot of the book.
Plus, this book could easily shed a hundred pages and have lost nothing.Even if you disregard for a second my disconnect from Katie and her overlong and dull story, even if you forget the uninteresting love interest, much is built up around the whole "finding out Demeter is not actually all she first seems" angle, but this was unsatisfying to me, too.
I read some Sophie Kinsella books back in the day and liked them so I thought I would get this one and give it a try.
Katie lives in London and she works at a job where she is trying to get noticed by her boss Demeter.
Katie ends up losing her job and she moves out to the farm where her dad and stepmom live.
Oh, what fun it was to read about Katie taking out all kinds of revenge on Demeter having her do some crazy stuff on the farm.
It’s no wonder Sophie Kinsella’s books are so widely acclaimed.
She’s not saying life is perfect, she’s saying it’s going to shit on you a good hundred times, and then maybe if you keep your head high… you might just be fine… probably.Kinsella’s heroines all have the same voice.
Kinsella’s women are witty and smart in surprising ways, but they’re all a little lost in life and charmingly innocent.
There ALWAYS is romance in Sophie Kinsella’s books.
But although Katie thinks about men—as she is currently single and a person with so much love to give—she wants to focus on her professional career first and I fully respect that.
GR friend Larry suggested that perhaps I needed a "palate cleanser", and, yup, that's what I needed and I found it in Sophie Kinsella's My Not So Perfect Life.
I used to read Kinsella's Shopaholic books, but then I got tired of the formula and the rom com literary genre generally.
While somewhat predictable, Kinsella is good at the genre.
Yup, all the right ingredients for a good palate cleanser -- or perhaps a really good bowl of chicken soup is a better analogy.
So my 4 star rating reflects that this is a good contribution to the genre and that it really came at the right time for me.
Working in the behavioral health field, I see how people present themselves while in the waiting room and then I see the real deal once in my office.
People who seem like they have the best life ever rarely do behind closed doors.
Kinsella groupie or not, check it out!My favorite quote:"I think I’ve finally worked out how to feel good about life.
Every time you see someone’s bright-and-shiny, remember: They have their own crappy truths too.
And every time you see your own crappy truth and feel despair and think, Is this my life, remember: It's not.
My Not So Perfect Life is such a fun escape!There’s something about Sophie Kinsella’s books that not only draw me in, but also make me laugh and smile.
It’s not perfect, but she is willing to overlook her hour and half painful commute to work, her crazy boss, her tiny room in a shared flat, and her lack of a social life because she gets to live in London.
She is envious of her friends and her boss, who use social media to portray that they live the perfect lives.
So................ I am in a serious debate now.I can't decide if this is my new all-time favorite book by Sophie Kinsella or if Twenties Girl is still my number one...Ohh, this is so hard, it shouldn't be this hard!!Anyway, this book is perfect!The end was a bit... cheezy but not too cheezy, but still cheezy enough to spice everything up with flavour of love...Okay, now I'm really rambling!I won't bother you anymore, but just before I write my proper review I'll just tell you that YOU NEED THIS BOOK IN YOUR LIFE!While reading:I'm so happy I'm reading this right now!!!
she asks you to dye her hair.This is more or less Katie's life, presented by Sophie Kinsella in a hilarious and refreshing manner.
Ambitious and devoted to her dreams, Katie left her family farm and her heavy accent in Somerset in order to pursuit her career in branding and promotion in her favorite city, London, but her life is not as glamorous as it appears on Instagram.
“Every time you see someone's bright-and-shiny, remember: They have their own crappy truths too.
And every time you see your own crappy truth and feel despair and think, 'Is this my life?', remember: It's not.
Kostelijk...heerlijke feelgood roman zoals alleen Sophie Kinsella ze kan schrijven! De genante, hilarische situaties waarin Cat/Kathy zich manouvreert...zo herkenbaar...De band met haar, in haar ogen, excentrieke vader en last but not least haar liefde voor haar baas die uiteindelijk beantwoordt wordt! Ik heb genoten!!
It still has the whole London scene, upbeat tone, and endearing characters, but the romance isn't the main focus and the main character is by far the most down-to-earth one yet.
Katie grew up on a rural dairy farm but is trying to carve out a successful life in London.
Ok this book actually is a bunch of smaller plots tied together because I just explained basically nothing...
The strong, likable characters were definitely the best part.
And the little bit of romance is super adorable, but the main relationship is actually the friendship Katie develops with her misunderstood boss.
Oh Sophie Kinsella DOES NOT DISAPPOINT!I HIGHLY RECOMMEND listening to this book! The audiobook & narrator were fantastic!I loved how this was slightly different from other Kinsella books. It focused more on our main character, Katie & her coming to terms with her career and how people perceive her.FULL VIDEO REVIEW COMING SOON!
THIS BOOK. Gah, this book. <3 <3 <3RTC.
Katie Brenner, a wanne-be Londoner is forced back to the farm, out in the British sticks, when her low-paid, struggling, position as a research associate in the prestigious advertising company becomes redundant.
What feels like the end of her London-ness(which gives her a spring in her step, it's so intangible, so buzzy), is actually the beginning of a new challenge, when she helps her father and stepmother to put glamorous into glamping on their farm, with proper wi-fi, 400-count must-haves on the yurt beds, and a new yoga discovery, called Vedari, for the upper- and middleclasses who's stomach sensitivity grows with their income.
Fun becomes such a last-year's kind of vintage rhetoric in the end, oh so like Alex Astalis, for instance.
“No one’s life has to be perfect.”  My not so Perfect Life has been one of my most surprisingly good reads this year and also one of the most hilarious books I’ve read ever (The Panini and “Vedari” incidents had me wiping tears of laughter.
One day my life will match my Instagram posts.
Everytime Demeter, Katie’s seemingly “scatterbrain, thoughtless, unfeeling” of a boss enters the picture, I’m just too entertained, especially so when Alex, also Katie’s boss enters the plot and things get more and more heated, hilarious and complicated.
I don’t really want to give too much of the plot away.
I breezed through the book and enjoyed every moment of it.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars “One day my life will match my Instagram posts. One day.” Meet Katie. Errrr, I mean Cat. She used to be Katie, but that was back when she was a farmer’s daughter in Somerset. When she moved to London and got a posh job at Cooper Clemmow, Katie figured it was high time to reinvent herself. Little did she know what kind of freight train was barreling toward her . . . .  “So . . . OK. Here’s what I’m going to do: 1. Help Biddy a
“One day my life will match my Instagram posts.
When she moved to London and got a posh job at Cooper Clemmow, Katie figured it was high time to reinvent herself.
Little did she know what kind of freight train was barreling toward her .
4. Tell them the details on a need-to-know basis, preferably when everything is safely back on track again.
Even when things are back on track, they will never need to know every painful detail of my life.
This book was a little of this .
Obviously this isn’t a book that’s going to change your life.
You've got office antics and a touch of romance, told in a truly hilarious way - what's not to love?Sophie Kinsella is pretty much a sure thing when it comes to the feel good, chick lit genre.
You can't go wrong with her if your goal is to shut out the outside world for a moment and enjoy a bit of humor.
She runs into a bit of trouble with her boss and things go all over the place from there.
I have to say, I did have a lot of mixed feelings about some of the antics here.
I really loved how the book wasn’t just some ditzy read with no point to the story but actually really focused on the theme of ‘appearance vs reality.’ Its kinda like the Instagram culture where people only show their best, the greatest moments of their life, and when you look at those and compare it to your mundane life youre like ‘wow im really losing out here’ when in reality we’re only showcasing the ups not the downs.
“Every time you see someone's bright-and-shiny, remember: They have their own crappy truths too.
Brilliant! This is the best contemporary book I've read in a long time and I read alot of contemporary books!☉I can't believe Sophie Kinsella managed to write something that was more than a cute fluff of pastry (which I love, btw! Not complaining at all) This book isn't just funny like her other books. I mean it was a fun-read but it also has a sensible plot with sensible characters ^^SURPRISE!!!☉It doesn't mean this is something  completely  different from Sophie Kinsella's usual writing style.
This is the best contemporary book I've read in a long time and I read alot of contemporary books!☉I can't believe Sophie Kinsella managed to write something that was more than a cute fluff of pastry (which I love, btw!
Trust Sophie Kinsella with multi-millionaire successful heroes and she would never disappoint you.
+POINT: He has also got a good sense of humor!☉ Katie is a Somerset girl striving to be a London girl.
(but tell me one contemporary novel with no cheese at all.) I loved Katie and Alex from the first scene they had together.
I wanted a quick easy read to wind down the year.
This pick was certainly lite reading, so light I could have floated lol this isn’t the type of book you read for the writing, it serves as fun and frivolous which it delivered.
I could even see this book turned into a fun rom com!
There were just a few nagging annoyances the insertion of all the full disclosures as a side bit irritated me to no end, it kind of feels like lazy writing and the style often sounded similar to how my 11 year old writes, not a criticism, he’s a smart intelligent kid....but still.
For the most part, I enjoyed the characters.
I'm not sure if those parts were meant to be humorous (they involved dirty stuff like mud and cow dung, so maybe some potty humor??), but I did not find them humorous at all.
Other parts of the book had a more subtle humor, which I enjoyed.
I still looked forward to reading more and enjoyed the rhythm of the story.
I had copies of this book in two formats: a Kindle copy provided by NetGalley and an Audible version narrated by Fiona Hardingham.
Overall, I really enjoyed this one and would recommend it for a light read.
My Not so perfect life by Sophie Kinsella was a really great read. I found it funny, cute, and entertaining. I'm glad to have discovered Sophie Kinsella and really enjoyed her writing. I have a feeling she's going to be one of my favorites!4****Thanks to Netgalley for a copy in exchange for an honest review
Before she was Cat Brenner, upwardly mobile junior associate working for a London-based branding firm, she was Katie, a farm girl from Somerset who dreamed of bathing in the city lights.
She works for a flaky, demanding boss, named Demeter, who has no idea who Cat is or what she does.
With no other offers, Cat finds herself back at her father's farm, helping him open a glamping business.
She's back to being Katie, and London is increasingly looking like a distant dream.
Katie can't help but take a little revenge.
However, I did think the book sagged a little in the middle.
Katie Brenner has been determined to make a life for herself in the city and does everything she can think of to get her boss, Demeter Farlowe to notice her work.
Just when Katie thinks things are starting to look up in her life though her boss decides to fire her.
Having no where else to turn Katie returns home to the country with her family to help them start up a new business but keeping her jobless state a secret while she's there.
Another thing that made me love this story was the setting with Katie's family in the country.
Ah... Sophie Kinsella, what would I do without you in my life? Another brilliant book with lots of laugh-out-loud moments and that feel good factor. Your books always give me that warm fuzzy feeling! 'My Not So Perfect Life' is no exception, loved it!
I haven't read a book like this for some time, and honestly, I need books like this in my life.
Entertaining, funny, light, too easy to be true at times and just sweet.
Katie, or shall we say Cat is attempting to live the dream in London..
but it is not as easy as it seems.
She wants more than her fake Instragram life is showing on the surface.
On the surface..
Katie isn't being true to herself at all.I loved all the characters, and I felt right at home at the glamping part of the story, visions of the country side and scones and hearty meals.
AudiobookFantastic narrationI found this to be an enjoyable fun light read with many laugh out loud moments.
Predictable storyline sure, but filled with a lot of little surprising moments.
Sophia Kinsella, never fails to leave me with a smile on my face after finishing one of her books.Katie the main character is a working woman at the bottom of the ladder in a difficult job situation.
She was born and raised in the country but works hard to not be that country girl.
She wants to be a London Girl, chic and entertaining.
Review to come :)
These are the books I know I'm guaranteed to have a great time and laugh my ass off all the way to the end.The story starts with Katie, working in London, barely scraping by and lying to her friends, dad, and herself that all is well.
When her boss Demeter fires her, Katie can't afford to live in London any more and returns to Somerset to help her dad and step-mom start up a glamping business.My Not So Perfect Life lived up to my high standard of Kinsella books.
The focus was more on Katie's journey, her relationship with her dad and step-mom, and her friendship with Demeter.
4.5⭐rounded up to 5 stars.MY NOT SO PERFECT LIFE by Sophie Kinsella was a fun quirky read with a few surprising twists and turns for those of us who need more. In an interview Ms Kinsella, author of the bestselling Shopaholic series, confessed that she likes to use humour in her books."I love to write comedy, and even if I'm trying to put a message across, I like to do it through humour and with humour. I don't know if I could give that up. I'm slightly addicted to it. And a plot that makes you
4.5⭐️rounded up to 5 stars.MY NOT SO PERFECT LIFE by Sophie Kinsella was a fun quirky read with a few surprising twists and turns for those of us who need more.
Sophie Kinsella examines our present-day obsession with social media and the impulse to project a perfect life through a carefully curated online presence.
Based in London, Kinsella spoke with interviewer Regan Stevens about social media, the myth of the perfect life and learning to be a more relaxed parent."I recommend this 'standalone' novel to anyone looking for a fun quirky read.
