https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/758026.An_Outline_of_European_Architecture
Palladio is the best.Readable. Occasionally the author's supercilious Britishness got irritating (take this with a grain of salt, I'm American) but overall quite good.
If there is one thing I can tell about Pevsner, he was a very passionate historian of architecture.
For all it has to offer, I give it only three stars because Pevsner only has a slight architectural glossary.
I spent a large amount of time looking up terms online.
Again, I spent a lot of time on the internet looking up buildings to try to grasp what he was talking about.
The highlight of the book for me was Pevsner's convincing opinions of the qualities and (failures?) of each time period and the architects who created our beautiful cities.
Not an easy book to actually read as opposed to dipping into.
The text could be written in a much easier style, yet we must persevere and the places, buildings are worth the effort.
I bought it in 1982, dipped into occasionally and recently I have used it to get away from this crushing 'web obsesssion' by means of attempting to work thro the text, reading paper printed books and not being screen based is my new objective these last few months.
Its too much for me in one read through, so far the early chapters as with all good books have massively broadened my outlook.
Some key words from google: bramante, late gothic, borromini, ninth century, soufflot, greek cross, mansart, romanesque style, bruchsal, gothic style, transepts, east parts, romanesque, robert adam, bernini, inigo jones, notre dame, united states, sto spirito, giulio roaman --- GREAT STUFF -- This intro is a good reference for knowing what you're looking at, or looking for, on your European tour. Second only to understanding Latin well enough to read inscriptions carved on buildings.
This book was my first of many attempts to try to understand architecture. I now know that I can't, not really. It's one of those subjects, like economics, that i just don't pick up easily. And Pevsner is a terrific theorist. I just can't maintain it like I can other subjects. Definitely worth a read for those who can.
A useful book, but the layout doesn't lend itself to quick referencing and can be daunting to a new comer upon the topic; its more of a complete read through for someone who already has an intermediate knowledge of the topic.
an excellent, superbly written overview of european architecture,from greek temples to mid 20th century. pevsner is one of my favorite architectural historians, who writes for the enthusiastic and avid learner, with detail and amiable commentary, without being esoteric or boring.
Extremely technical. I have faith in Pevsner's research and his intellect, but his writing style is dense and sometimes difficult.
I have read this volume more than once. Pevsner analyses architecture with skill and passion. This edition has a good epilogue and fine illustrations.
Excellent introduction and survey of European Architecture. Lucid text, well illustrated.
