https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/938052.English_Journey
The book was a best seller when it was published and apparently had an influence on public attitudes to poverty and welfare, and the eventual formation of the welfare state.The book also makes a fascinating companion piece to "In Search Of England" by H.V. Morton, which was published a few years earlier, and was another enormously successful English travelogue, however one that provides a far more romantic version of England, an England untroubled by poverty and the depression.
"English Journey" is a fascinating account, and the edition I read, published by Great Northern Books, is also illustrated with over 80 modern and archive photos.
How little changes too: even in the thirties, pubs are generally bogus Merrie England affairs, culture is mass and trashy (he means cinema), entertainment is transactional, streetscapes are ugly and pretty towns are infested with Ye Olde Tea Shoppes.
This superb line, talking of a fish market in Hull: “I only saw a few halibut, but these were of gigantic size, lying there like murdered Roman emperors”.Humourous too - from a 21st century perspective - at how even in comfortable moments, it’s boiled beef, overheated hotels and pipe smoking.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Retracing JB Priestley's footsteps of 1933, poet Lemn Sissay heads south to begin his odyssey around modern England.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b009...
J. B. Priestley can be both whimsical and nostalgic in this travelogue of a trip around England. He can also be thoughtful and contemplative, particularly about the less attractive aspects of the country, the factories, dole queues and the plight of the working classes. His viewpoint is broadly socialist, but he strongly supports individualism not organised paternalism.This is an enjoyable and informative book and Priestley is a persuasive writer. If I have one quibble, it is that I feel he did not have to include so many descriptions of the meals he ate, but it is a minor quibble.
From wiki - Commissioned by publisher Victor Gollancz to write a study of contemporary England, Priestley recounts his travels around England in 1933. He shares his observations on the social problems he witnesses, and appeals for democratic socialist change. English Journey was an influential work, inspiring George Orwell's The Road to Wigan Pier,[1:] and "has even been credited with winning the 1945 election for the Labour Party"Broadcast on:BBC Radio 7, 2:00pm Monday 24th May 2010Duration:30 minutesAvailable until:2:32pm Monday 31st May 2010Categories:Factual, Arts, Culture & the Media, Lifestyle & Leisure, Travel
I was sure I was going to be guided through England of the depression by a wise and avuncular uncle.
The second is the industrial mess we made of so much of England for profit in the nineteenth century and have left the problem of what to do with the unwanted workers, the wastelands and the rusting factories.
Well, get him on Geordies or Liverpool Irish and I think you'll find views not only intolerant but on the wrong side of offensive.Oh, and for you English examiners who continue to set questions about how An Inspector Calls reveals Priestley's socialism: please read what the man himself had to say on the subject.
ENGLISH JOURNEY. (1934). J. B. Priestley. ****. Priestley was approached by his publisher to do a book on England based on a projected jaunt around the country. Travel literature has always been popular in England, but having Priestly write one would likely produce a work that was definitely different from the usual contributions to the genre. Priestly delivered, helped along by a liberal advance. The result was this book, subtitled: “Being a rambling but truthful account of what one man saw and
Priestley was approached by his publisher to do a book on England based on a projected jaunt around the country.
Travel literature has always been popular in England, but having Priestly write one would likely produce a work that was definitely different from the usual contributions to the genre.
As might be expected, Priestley managed to mingle and talk with people at all levels of society during his trip, and came to a series of conclusions about what was wrong with the country.
I’d recommend that you have a map of England at hand when you read this, since one was not included.
I love Priestley's style and if some of his ideas and phrases might be dated and indeed some of his concepts are unsettlingly dismissive and offensive about certain strata of english society in 1933 that is not to be particularly surprising, writing as he was in a society quite different from our own and in a country which, between the wars, was still struggling and coming to terms with a dramatically changed landscape in terms of Industry and future development.
The danger with reading this sort of work is I can be tempted to retroject my outlook and vision onto that totally different landscape, conveniently forgetting that my vision has been honed and focused in a different educative and social experience.
I've had this book on my shelves for quite a while and I finally got around to reading it whilst on holiday earlier this year. What a fascinating insight into times that are really not so terribly long ago but yet so very different from my own personal experiences. I've always loved Priestley for his attention to detail, his very apt interpretation of what he sees and hears. I've always loved Priestley for his ability to use so few words to convey so much.
As he observes, regional theatres flourish in the most unlikely settings, and there are merits in the enterprise and ingenuity of the sons of the industrial revolution that is not always echoed in the gentrified classes to the south of Sheffield.Speaking of East Durham, rarely can a book have been so well illustrated by its accompanying photographs; the Bill Brandt picture of the brick house sheltering under the coal slag heap with the heavy machinery of the pulley system perched on its top is magnificent and such photographs can be as influential as the text.
The book is filled with personal delight and dismay regarding his observations as he moved through numerous districts, and he is never better than when he describes attending the Goose Fair in Nottingham or riding a tram across Birmingham at dusk.The reader may not agree with some of his conclusions or may take offense at his prejudices, but this book is absolutely well worth the time.
Because Priestley was such a humane, curious, observant man, qualities that played an important role in his success with novels, plays, and essays, he falls naturally into the role of travel writer.
This book is probably less useful as a guide to the places Priestley visited — far too much has changed — but it should prove invaluable for better appreciating those places and the people that occupy them.
During his journey, Priestley does what all travel writers should do — he invites experience.
He throws himself into the activities of the people he meets and the places he visits.
They I cannot help feeling in my innocence, that there must be something strangely anachronistic, crude, violent barbaric about that world; and therefore it is time it was brought into the 20th century, cleaned up and civilised.” “Woman being smuggled into Liverpool to work as prostitutes.” “We may live under 50 country flags but are compelled to serve under just one economic flag.” Poverty and injustice that was accepted and even expected was perhaps one of the few social ills that we have improved now as compared to the 1930’s.
A wonderful non-fiction book, Priestley's journey around England in the autumn of 1933. He gets under the skin of each places he visits showing up the desperate plight of the British working man in the north. This is not however a grim book there is also much humour, we not only get a taste of the real England of the early 1930's but we also learn more about the book's irascible author.
I was delighted to see that Great Northern Books had re-issued this famous book by Priestley, and they have produced a superb, splendidly-illustrated edition. I first read this book many years ago, have re-read it at least twice, and each time was very moved by it; and I am looking forward to re-reading it yet again.
I loved this. Wonderful travel writing, and portraits of English cities before the war and planning. Read it!
After a somewhat disappointing journey with Terry in a narrowboat I grabbed this off my shelf... I love it already. In my mind I'm listening to an audiobook read by Sir Alec Guinness.
