https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68143.The_Wisdom_of_Crowds
He later quotes Keynes’s statement about the stock market:“Professional investment may be likened to those for newspaper competitions in which competitors have to pick out the six prettiest faces from a hundred photographs, the prize being awarded to the competitor whose choice most nearly corresponds to the average preferences of the competitors as a whole; so each competitor has to pick, not those faces which he himself finds prettiest, but those which he thinks likeliest to catch the fancy of other competitors, all of whom are looking at the problem from the same point of view.”He then goes on to state that that behaviour is what Keynes “recommends”.
Some people did not even finish the book so I'd like highlight a few important concepts Surowiecki was trying to communicate.The four essential conditions that make up a smart or wise crowd are: - Diversity of OpinionEach person must have some private information that he/she brings to the group.
If you experience in life has been that crowds are dumb, changes are one of these four conditions were missing.In order to reorient yourself to what Surowiecki is saying, it may require an entirely new framing of your world and some are just not willing to do that.The book is fantastic and required reading for people in a leadership position.
In fact, it could be that I’ve been reading far too many of this type of book recently and so they are all starting to merge into one.The kinds of people who do tests on other people did a test in which they asked a group of people to guess how many jelly beans there were in a jar.
In fact, there are numerous examples presented in this book to make the case that groups tend to be much more rational than individuals.There is also an interesting discussion on centrally planned economies and free markets.
You are getting veeeerrrry sleeeeepy...This is a very interesting concept, fleshed out into a very boring book.
It seems like a graduate thesis that got stretched to book length for publication in hopes of drafting the popular slipstream of writers such as Malcolm Gladwell.The premise is fascinating, and the first chapter delivers.
It feels very one-sided.Overall, as I'm sure you can tell, I found it a bit of a disappointment because it could have been a very enjoyable article or even a book if it wasn't so heavy-handed in pursuing the thesis's applicability to every aspect of human endeavor.
The author argues that, under right conditions, a group can – and will – be smarter than its smartest members.As indicated in the book, the conditions/requirements for a wise group include: Diversity (of opinions), Independence, Decentralization and Aggregation.
Using these four properties, a wise group is able to solve three types of problems, namely Cognition, Coordination and Cooperation problems.
Unlike cognition, collective solutions to the last two problems, i.e. coordination and cooperation, are fuzzier and less definitive.With clear prose and interesting little stories covered in the book ranging across diverse fields of economy, culture, history, politics, etc., this is a very practical and engaging book.
If the crowd were a single person, that was how much it would guessed the ox weighed.Galton undoubtedly thought that the average guess of the group would be way off the mark.
Even if most of the people within a group are not especially well-informed or rational, it can still reach a collectively wise decision." (p.
212)"The idea of the wisdom of crowds is not that a group will always give you teh right answer but that on average it will consistently come up with a better asnwer than any individual could provide." (p.
She didn't realize I was joking, so...now I'm reading it tonight.Sometimes these things happen.-----This book does get dry at times, but it has a lot of information in it.
That boils down to: diversity of opinion, independence, decentralization, and aggregation.Diversity of opinion: “Collective decisions are only wise when they incorporate lots of different information.” If everyone thinks the same way and has the same background, a crowd will be no smarter than an individual.
Instead of having to make constant resort to orders and threads, companies can rely on workers to find new, more efficient ways of getting things done.”Aggregation: Crowds are useless if the diverse opinions are not aggregated in some way.
Există specia asta de gânditori care vor să dea o aură științifică teoriilor lor și, pentru asta, le susțin cu studii și experimente făcute de alții (în alte scopuri).Teoria aici e că anumite mulțimi, care întrunesc condițiile de diversitate (oamenii gândesc diferit, au formări diferite și un nivel diferit de cunoștințe), independență (nu sunt influențați) și descentralizare (nu au unii mai multă putere decât alții), pot rezolva cel puțin la fel de bine ca unii dintre experții din aceste mulțimi unele probleme, grupate în 3 categorii: cognitive (pot face predicții cu privire la cifre - eterna câte bile sunt în borcan/câte produse se vor vinde - sau cel mai probabil scenariu câștigător - care produs va funcționa), de cooperare (cum e plata taxelor) și de coordonare (cum sunt pietonii care nu se izbesc unii de alții pe stradă).
Maybe somewhere inside this poorly written, incoherent book, there's a decent short article waiting to be written.
Who knows, maybe that article has already been written, and that's why this foolishness has been perpetrated.
My heart goes out to the poor fool who had to edit this thing; that's assuming it was edited, because you really can't tell by reading it.
Fortunately, the basic idea isn't hard to understand, and certainly it's repeated often enough.
Not to mention at least one basic math error.
I read this book, I thought, in preparation for a scheduled discussion of it at the college Homecoming weekend.
Should have known better with a comparison to Malcolm Gladwell on the front.A mildly interesting idea with some neat examples, some misquotes and distortions, and nothing much aside from anecdotal evidence. This would have worked out much better as an article rather than a book.
Really the best way to review this book is to just star it, right?
For example, when presented with a card showing lines of different lengths and asked to pick the shortest one, subjects would almost always pick the one chosen by other members of the group (the experimenter's confederates) even when it was obviously not the shortest.Many of Surowiceki's arguments seem counter-intuitive, but he cites a fair amount of evidence that the best decisions, on average, are always made by groups rather than individuals regardless of their expertise.
the more power you give a single individual in the face of complexity and uncertainty, the more likely it is that bad decisions will get made."For the group decision-making process to work the best, several elements must be present.1.
The Wisdom of Crowds takes a scientific look at the theory that given the right composition and the right problems to solve, a group can collectively be smarter than its smartest member.
I'll leave you, dear readers, with this to think about (from the afterword, pp277-278):"The Wisdom of Crowds is not an argument against experts, but against our excessive faith in the single individual decision maker.
I think there are two big problems with relying on a single individual - no matter how well informed.
I agree with another reviewer who mentioned it was like reading a thesis.The author separated the book into two parts: Part 1 and Part 2 and for the life of me I can't fathom why because it all ran together.
The introduction starts off with numerous examples to the points he intends to make throughout the book that also have numerous--extensive--examples.
I agree that collective decisions are more likely to be good when made from a diverse group of individuals, reaching independent conclusions.
The author's theories on becoming individually smarter, but collectively dumber were interesting.
In particular, his discussion of the way that markets work (in this case, not just the stock market, but Vegas betting lines as well as faux creations such as the Hollywood Stock Exchange) changed my opinion of the usefulness of these for decision-making purposes.Yet it is also in this discussion of markets that Surowiecki's argument falls flat, in that he glosses over real market problems such as the irrationality of crowds in a bull market (such as the Danish tulip craze, the 1920s boom, or the irrational exuberance of the 90s) while making the case for how the proposed DARPA Policy Analysis Market ("a market centered on the Middle East [that:] might provide intelligence that otherwise would be missed").
In reading Surowiecki’s The Wisdom of Crowds, I found myself finally patting myself on the back for being what I’ve always been: average.
The entire book is built around the idea of a crowd knowing what’s best.
Surowiecki makes an easily compelling case for the crowd, and he manages to do it in an entertaining way.
The Wisdom of Crowds highlights various situations, most of them successful, where the crowd rendered an answer either the same or better than the experts opinions.
Surowiecki outlines three different types of crowds and explains why it is the crowd that makes sense of the situation.
He refers to the book Moneyball and how clever Oakland was using new ideas to win more games.Like money sports is only about winning.
In Moneyball, we're told that the way to win is to walk to first base,and rarely or never try to steal a base.
On page 127 he talks about Ernst & Young accountants,they did a crappy job, along with every one else on Wall street,but it's our fault because we "stopped watching the watchmen".
The book was written in 2004, he couldn't know that another Ernstclient, Lehman brothers, had tons of liabilities off the booksso investors wouldn't know the true risk of investing in LEH.
Or being a counterparty to LEH.
Почему вместе мы умнее, чем поодиночке, и как коллективный разум влияет на бизнес, экономику, общество и государство" весьма интересная, но как по мне в ней много фактов и данных преподнесено с неверными выводами и слабыми аргументами.Не все так плохо, автор очень четко и метко умеет подмечать моменты в жизни людей как и в отдельности так и в социуме, которые в определенных моментах склоняют тех придти к тому или иному решению, тем или иным выводам, совершить ту или иную оценку ситуации, и его острая наблюдательность способна заметить и "расшифровать" последующие влияние на умы и убеждения этих людей и масс, разложить их по полочкам.
We usually think that a crowd, taken as a whole, is going to be wrong.
But surprisingy, if you take everybody's individual wisdom and average it together, you'll get a better answer than you'll find from an expert.
We're not talking about committees here--you don't put everybody together and have them talk it out.
People have to come to their decisions independently.
This works whether you're guessing the number of jelly beans in a bottle, or finding a lost submarine, or trying to guess where the stock market will go.
Valuable lesson: don't think anybody is stupid, unless maybe it's an "expert" who doesn't listen to the ordinary people around him.
Great book, hope for full review later. Somewhere between Jon Ronson and his big themes, and Malcolm Gladwell and his precious little truths. Regardless, it's up there with Ronson and Gladwell.
I didn't expect it to be as good!Great wrap up on various case of crowds implicitly or explicitly deciding and effective factors on their optimal performance.
The wise crowd is: diverse, independent, decentralized, sufficiently large and must have a method of aggregating its decision.
In summary, the Columbia Accident Investigation Board (CAIB) determined that the small team was not sufficiently diverse, and member did not operate independent from the leader, an didn’t have a method to aggregate – except through the team leader Linda Ham. In the area of diversity, Surowieki contrast the mission management team with the ground crew of Apollo 13, the later being nearly all middle-aged white males having crew cuts, white short-sleeve dress shirts, and narrow-ties.
I'm expanding this review for The Wisdom of Crowds as an acknowledgment during an election week of the importance of this thesis for democracy.The ingredients for collective wisdom are: independence, decentralization, diversity and aggregation.
Yes, you get "wacko" opinions with this method but, in addition to getting a more accurate norm through aggregation, you get something much closer to the concept of democracy than what survives our centralized institutions.Of further note: the Scientific Revolution was a rebellion against the dogma of the centralized "experts" of the time and a dramatic movement towards the independence and decentralization of knowledge.
Like many people, I heard that phrase and wondered: “is that the polite way of saying: ‘we all screwed up?’” Though he writes as part of the aftermath of the Iraq war, Surowiecki carefully avoids that most politically charged instance of “group think”.
He instead addresses the promise and the perils of our increasingly collaborative culture, explaining the factors that help some groups discover modern marvels and lead others to massive mistakes.
The book follows an examination of these traits and offers a host of case studies that explain each factor in greater detail.
Only because mentally I changed the title of the book.If you change the title of the book to "How to make crowds wiser", then everything that Surowiecki says in the book falls into place, like a jigsaw puzzle.
And so, I am guessing that the current title might be either a case of "bandwagon effect" or cowering into the publisher's demands to have a catchier title.Suroweicki does a good job of balancing both sides of the argument, demonstrating when crowds are smart and when they are dumb.
The book is highly listenable but suffers greatly from events which have transpired in the years since its original publication (2005 vs.
The financial crisis and stock market crash really do poke holes in a lot of his narrative on how groups out perform individuals.I would not recommend using a credit today for this book because it is outdated by recent events and we have evolved technologically since those days.
I do like the authors main theme that groups out perform individuals but he would first need to rewrite his story to explain recent history and include recent tech innovations.The narrator is one of my favorites and he will make it easy to listen to the whole book in spite of the anachronisms in the narrative.
An interesting book that presents compelling arguments in favor of drastically overhauling the way group decision-making is commonly practiced in American schools and workplaces in order to enhance the possibility of better outcomes.
Anyone who has ever worked in a group will recognize many of the dynamics he describes - from the dominance of those who speak the most (regardless of the merits of the content they contribute) to unconscious deference to those of higher status (regardless of whether their expertise pertains to the problem at hand).
With examples drawn from many spheres of life this is a practical and engaging book.
This is a great book. Well worth the read.Still, I can sum it in a couple of sentences, and then you only need to read it if you want the supporting arguments.Large groups of people tend to arrive at the correct resolution to complex issues far more frequently than individuals do. This happens when the wrong answers are randomly distributed, and the experts cast the deciding votes. You would be surprised how often this happens. Read the book for cases to keep an eye on biased wrong answers ruining this usually good strategy for finding optimal solutions.
The ideas in this book helped set a direction of thought that affected the software industry (particularly the Silicon Valley scene, which had outsized impacts on the rest of the world). Reading it through now reminds me how much is lost in lip service – it's clear that so many "crowd-sourced" and "social" solutions took the title as if it were the whole story. They missed the critical conditions that allow a crowd to be wiser than the individuals within it.(aka, no, the Central Limit theorem does not apply to dependent variables.)
Sau khi đọc cuốn Tâm Lý đám đông LeBon thì được khuyên nên đọc cuốn này cho có cái nhìn đa chiều.Nữa cuốn đầu nói về ý chính của sách, nữa sau là các dẫn chứng được nêu ra để kiểm tra lý thuyết đó là đúng. Phần nữa sau hơi mong lung, khó hiểu (có lẽ do người dịch). Cuốn sách cho biết tại sao tập hợp người bình thưỡng cũng giỏi hơn tập hợp các chuyên gia.Không cần đọc cả cuốn, nữa cuốn sách đã cung cấp đủ kiến thức.
