https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1381155.Famous_Science_Fiction_Stories
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mardi (hide spoiler)]For a previous Update, see bottom of review - re the "Lewis Padgett" stories.This is probably one of the first science fiction anthologies ever published (1946), and is recognized as one of the best of the early ones.
All three stories by Padgett (The Proud Robot, Time Locker, The Twonkey) are in fact (but perhaps not!) written by both Kuttner & Moore.
This be the verse that you grave for me: Here he lies where he longed to be, Home is the sailor, home from the sea, And the hunter home from hill.Update 10/15/2013About the "Lewis Padgett" stories, written (perhaps) by Henry Kuttner and his wife C.L. Moore.
Capitalizing on this interest, the editors included, along with the 33 stories, two scientific essays on rocketry and time travel, which I did not read --my interest here was just in the fiction.) Since I'd read most of the stories, I've had the collection posted for some time on my read shelf; but I've only recently read the last few so that I could review the book.Drawing their material strictly from the genre pulps of the 1930s and early 40s, and trying to select what they felt to be the best samples of that tradition, the editors assembled works from 23 authors (several, obviously, represented more than once) who include many of the best known of that generation.
It dreamed, but it dreamed in tunnel-vision.Adventure's in Time and Space proposes to be '33 of the Greatest Stories, Novelettes & Short Novels by the Best SF Writers of All Time!"That's a tall order and no surprise the volume falls short.It doesn't help that the whole thing begins with a essay by the editors equal in pretension to a 8th grader claiming that their paper-mâché model of the solar system will revolutionize our present understanding of cosmology.
Hell, even James Blish would have spiced the whole thing up.I suppose, everything withstanding, that there isn't a more thorough single-volume introduction to Golden Era SF (The Science Fiction Hall of Fame probably has better stories but it is multi-volume.
Contains the following 1943 Retro Hugo finalists for various short fiction categories:  “Nerves” by Lester del Rey (Astounding Science Fiction, September 1942) Read 4/13-18/2018; This story had good characterization, but the medical and atomic sciences didn't stand the test of time well.
Liked it (3.5 stars) “Asylum” by A.E. van Vogt (Astounding Science Fiction, May 1942) “The Twonky” by C.L. Moore and Henry Kuttner (Astounding Science Fiction, September 1942) - Read 4/9/2018; Similar in subject matter to the Brown short story but more sinister.
(3.5 stars) “The Weapon Shop” by A.E. van Vogt (Astounding Science Fiction, December 1942) Read 4/22/2018; Very odd short story of a strange political philosophy.
Just finished the novella by John Campbell, "Who Goes There?" - an intense and harrowing read. Damned scary even if the dialogue is clumsy. This novella is available on Kindle (which I've just purchased) for $3.03 which includes an introduction by William Nolan and an original screen treatment.Don't know if I'm interested in reading any of the rest of this massive tome.Rating is for the Campbell novella only.
Originally released in August of 1946 as collection of 35 works from what are now considered the legends of science fiction.
In 1966, 20 years after it was published, it was still rated as the 20th best science fiction book on the Astounding/Analog pole, and in 1999 it was ranked as the 3rd best SF anthology of all time.Fourteen of the original 35 stories have also been long remembered by science fiction fans, including such stories as ‘Requiem’ (Robert Heinlein), ‘Forgetfulness’ (Don A.
The original 35 story collection was republished in 1957 under the title ‘Famous Science Fiction Stories: Adventures in Time and Space.’
It's easy to see why; 1000 pages of extremely well-chosen stories from the early years of the "Golden Age", 1937-1945, by virtually every big-name American writer in the field.
It's all from the magazines, mostly "Astounding", and nearly every story and writer featured went on to become classics in the field.
Sadly, in 2008, both the anthology and even some of the writers within are now fading into history; the book is apparently out of print as I write this.
I still haven't gotten through every story, so I expect that list to grow.
This was one of the first hardcover editions of science fiction short stories, and so it's a good idea for anyone interested in beginning to read the genre who wants to know how the American strain of pulp science fiction got started, in the magazines of the 30's.
Sure, the stuff written in the 60's and onwards is, for the most part, better literature, but there is something in the best of these old stories, call it an earnest sense-of-wonder if you like, or a genuine faith in human intellect, or an uncynical belief in the power of ideas alone to shock, that has rarely been replicated since.
E. Van Vogt’s first published sf story ’Black Destroyer’; ’Nightfall’ by Isaac Asimov, about a planet which only experiences darkness once every 2000 years; ‘Who Goes There’ by Astounding editor John W.
Heinlein (under his pseudonym Anson MacDonald), about a man interacting with himself via a time portal.Among the less well known stories, there isn’t really a clunker among them — all are above average and readable, and some deserve to be more well known, such as ‘Seeds of the Dusk’ by Raymond Z.
Here's the deal. There was a hardcover book by this title published, and then the hardcover was broken into two volumes for paperback publication, one of the same title, which I have, and then "More Adventures in Time and Space," which I don't have.However, in looking at the contents of the hardcover, I've read most of the stories in it in other formats so I've read somewhat over half of this book. But I only own the first paperback.Good stuff though. This is a collection that deserves it's good reputation.
I recall the title of virtually every one of these stories not so much because I read them here, but because they're famous and have been read in anthology after anthology.
I first got a hold of this book when I was 11. Many of these stories were formative in the development of my thinking, in particular 'He Who Shrank' which helped my understanding of the true nature of the infinite multiverse.
This is what I really want in a collection of SF.
We read this as bedtime stories between November of '14 and July of '15.
We did take a break in December for a Christmas book.Jack Vance must have read "Seeds of the Dusk," as it rings like a Vance Dying Earth story, and it must have influenced him."Farewell to the Master" is the basis for the film "Day the Earth Stood Still." I had not encountered the story before."Who Goes There?" is not as good as the film versions.
I read it as a Doc Savage homage story."The Proud Robot" was our favorite.
This is the first science fiction anthology I can remember reading, when I was a young teen, plowing my way through the SF shelves of the local library, quite in awe of the genre's wide spectrum of subjects, and the pure joy of imagination coupled with science.
The story that originally grabbed my attention the hardest - although perhaps not the best writing in the book - is "He Who Shrank" which managed to both astound me with its array of worlds, and affect me as a tragedy.
This book is one of the best for "golden age" fans One of the earliest sci-fi anthologies.
MacDonald), as well as his "Who Goes There?" (inspiration for the films "The Thing (From Outer Space)," Asimov's "Nightfall," Bester's "Adam and No Eve," Van Vogt's "The Weapon Shop," (prequel to his famous novel of the same name) and the first two stories of Heinlein' famous "Future History" series, "Requiem" and "The Roads Must Roll." Also includes Van Vogt's now (unjustly) forgotten "Asylum," a sci-fi (not horror) vampire story.
A book you will not put down!
This is a science fiction anthology at the heart of a sci-fi class I took a few years ago in the American Studies department at University of Maryland, and it seems to have gone out of print.
I was planning to use it for one of my own classes for its unique historical placement: this is, in short, the pioneering anthology of science fiction back from the era of World War II when writers like Asimov and Heinlein were beginning to shape the genre.
An excellent collection of science fiction stories from the 1940s. There are some really good stories and some mediocre ones in the collection. You can tell which authors went on to become famous science fiction writers and which ones did not. I believe the story that inspired the original The Day the Earth Stood Still is in this collection. The character names and situations are just too similar to be coincidental. It is a collection from the 1940s, so there is a film noir quality about the characters and almost all the stories are exceedingly androcentric. Still, an enjoyable read.
This book, first published in 1946, contains 8 premium science fiction stories by grand masters. (The edition pictured is a 1954 paperback re-print by Pennant Books.) All are reprinted from "Astounding Stories" and date from the late 1930s to early 1940s. My copy, unfortunately, is falling apart from age, but it's available at some on-line dealers. I recommend it to all sci-fi fans, of any generation. The final story, "Farewell to the Master", by Harry Bates, my have suggested the classic movie "The Day the Earth Stood Still".
Arguably the best anthology of science fiction ever published; the best of golden-age sf almost surely. Almost all of the stories have been reprinted over and over again, and almost all of the authors are remembered as being important and influential forces in the field. I've re-read many of the contents multiple times and hope to have the time to pull down my tattered volume several more times!
The stories date from the '30's & 40's, - some are good, others are great yarns, some make you think, just how far have we come? Or have we? An excellent collection of stories, varying in length, tone, humor, serious, philosophical - Among my favorites were Lewis Ladgett's "The Proud Robot" & "Time Locker" (stories with a weird twist); L. Sprague de Camp's "The Blue Giraffe" (the price of gene-splicing? or a really good yarn?) & A.E.Vogt's "The Weapons Shop" (definitely NOT what you think!)
One of the most important collections from the golden age of science fiction. includes resonably meaningful and insightful commentary on each story providing much historical and literary context. One of my constant go back to anthologies. I especially like 'Requiem", "The Roads Must Roll", "Nerves", and "Adam and No Eve". For anyone serious about knowing and reading contemporary Science Fiction, This is a must own.
Imaginative and relevant, even 70+ years later. Shows that good sci-fi is not bound to unimaginable (to the reader) applications of technology, and is made timeless by exploring ideas that go much deeper than mere technology.
This may have been the very first Sci-Fi book I bought and I still have it. 1975 edition.
My version is from Dec. 1979, with a different cover
One of the oldest and one of the best collections. I have the 1975 version. This book got me interested in science fiction and I have never regretted it. Highly recommended.
My oldest sci-fi anthology of stories and one of my favorites.
This was just average to me. "Time Locker" by Lewis Padgett is the only really memorable story for me. I love the liberties taken with the linear nature of time.
All the classics. Start here if you are not familiar with the masters of scifi.
must read for science fiction lovers :)
