https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/895005.Owls_Do_Cry
I would give it five stars if I were to rate the book by the author's difficulties or as proof that what is defined as mentally ill is debatable.
Yes, even given the dark tone of the book, there is humor.
Daphne, who is the central character in the book, is speaking of her father's hygiene routines and talks of, "....the powder that he sprinkled on his feet to stop them from becoming athletic." Or a depiction of a nurse "with her greet the visitor smile".
I don't want to be told why I should like a book, so I stopped listening.
You would think this night that the world sated with blossom and love and death would finish and there would be no memory of it anywhere, save perhaps on a cave wall of new time, where the posturing figures dance unseen their stillness of clay or chalk or stone.You would think all this on a spring night.Except the thinking is not real.The feeling I had a lot when reading Owls Do Cry was of looking out of the corner of your eye.
I had the feeling that Toby was always reading Teresa's diary and running away in the night to avoid that exorcist head spin at their family.
Janet Frame is another one of those authors whose books I ration.
I discovered Frame's work after I fell for Jane Campion's work.
The Piano led to An Angel at My Table, which was based on Frame's autobiography of the same name and some of her other work.
Frame died a few years ago after a life of tragedy, astounding accomplishments, and gorgeous writing.
Some writers wish they would write like Dickinson or Faulkner or Shakespeare .
I wish I could write like Frame.
Owls Do Cry was Frame's first semi-autobiographical novel.
But the plot isn't what normally matters in Frame's books.
Qui al nord di notte in alto nel cielo resta una specie di luce solare, come se le tenebre aderissero alla terra sotto la sferza del sole.”  Al centro la dolorosa miseria dell’indigenza e le due facce che può assumere la realtà: follia e cosiddetta normalità.
La vista sarà oscurata, l’ombra risistemata sugli occhi, e il campo visivo verrà ristretto al piatto, alla tazza di tè, alle sigarette; tutto qui il loro mondo; fermi come una casa a guardare sempre il proprio cortile posteriore.Hanno tolto loro le forcine che sono state disposte in fila lungo la mensola del camino.
E se non avessi una vita interiore?".La più grande Francie lascerà la scuola per andare a lavorare in un cotonificio.
Ecco sua madre che ripete nei momenti più bui, «Abbiate fede»: "Non potevi vederla la fede, ma era da qualche parte per aiutarti, come l'aria che doveva togliere le grinze alle divise di scuola; così era ora col disegno spiegazzato e scomposto".Ecco suo padre davanti ai bambini: "Non avevano mai visto piangere il padre.
Once you get the hang of it you realise how rich, deep and beautifully poetic her writing is.The book is based in 1950s New Zealand and follows the story of one family from Dunedin in the South Island, and goes in-depth into the characters of three siblings in particular.
You get a real feel for the culture of the society of those times, and this is particularly interesting for me being based in NZ at the moment as it gives me an insight and a reference point (though I recognise it as an intimate and subjective one) of a particular period in New Zealand's history.
After the eldest girl dies horrifically, the book jumps twenty years ahead: we now see that the youngest is married and trying, poorly, to get on in higher society; Daphne is mute and in a grim mental institution staffed by pushy attendants and smiling, clueless doctors, getting ECT; and Toby is a slightly mentally off (“a shingle short,” as the book has it, in Australian slang) epileptic who works as some sort of scrap dealer.
It’s a fully autobiographical novel: Frame was one of five children, two of whom died, one of whom was epileptic, and she spent time in a mental institution, even being scheduled for a lobotomy at one point.
I was debating on whether to listen to the audio or read the book, so I asked the friend that I heard about it from what I should do.
I struggled at first but it really did end up being the best way to experience this book.
This is where the effect of reading and listening together was most deeply felt.
I was most interested in Daphne's story, and unfortunately she didn't get to speak until the end, but each character was very skillfully rendered in a complex and human way.
--insert unhappy face emoticon here.)Like Frame's second and third novels, Faces in the Water and Edge of the Alphabet, Owls Do Cry is, to me, a beautiful and lyric composition plumbing the depths of the inner lives of more-or-less ordinary characters with a competency few authors accomplish.
Being her first written novel, Owls Do Cry is perhaps a bit more raw than her third, Edge of the Alphabet, which uses a very similar technique--juxtaposing or presenting in a parallel fashion the inner lives of several characters.
Rating: The Full FiveAbsolutely my favorite Kiwi novel. I learned so much about the national character of the country I feel I should have been born in.
I started to read Owls Do Cry as research for my second novel as I cannot decide whether my protagonist is sent to prison or a Closed Psychiatric Unit.
The novel covers 20 years and as Margaret Drabble says in the Introduction, one of the first works of fiction to deal with life in a mental institution.
Margaret Drabble quotes from Janet Frame’s superb autobiography, Wrestling with Angels.
Read it and find out.A novel, to quote Margaret Drabble again, who puts it so much better than I can, ‘Owls Do Cry is ‘a mingled cry of joy and pain’.
It breaks all kind of "rules" - the verb tense shifts, unconventional punctuation and sentence structure, etc.
There isn't really a main character.
There's a main family, but I couldn't pick any one of its members as a protagonist.
It works REALLY well.The story chronicles the lives of a poor family in a small town called Waimaru in New Zealand.
The characters are clear and well-developed.
It's a strange book, but I didn't have any trouble following what was going on.
All of its weirdness added to the powerful effect of the writing.I'm surprised this book doesn't have more reviews.
This is genius writing. And, beautiful. And, brave.It's a bit squeamish-making, which is why I'm not putting this on my "favorites" shelf, but I vehemently recommend it, nevertheless.If you haven't seen An Angel at My Table, the film about Janet Frame's life, I recommend that as well.Thank you, again, Jo!
The ripening fruit of sky bleeding, bandaged with snow-skin of autumn cloud; the noon light dripping from the trees in gold flakes called leaves..." (page 46)Linger through it, savor it, don't let it flow away too quickly..."If I travel a hundred miles to find treasure, I will find treasure.
If I travel a hundred miles to find nothing, even if I bring money with me, to lay it down in exchange, I will find nothing." (Page 176.)
The epilogue might have been a little overplayed with its ironic follow-ups for the characters, but on the whole, I think i'll forgive it.I'll definitely be following up by looking up more of her books - still finding it a little odd, as a New Zealander, to realise that our Janet Frame, who we tend to think of as simply our most famous, best author, was also internationally highly regarded, and decently well-known (multiple copies of all her books in the NYPL!
Owls Do Cry is Janet Frame’s first full-length novel and was hailed as a critical success from the start.
First published in 1957 and recently reissued in a 50th anniversary edition (on which this audio book is based), it is the tragic story of the Withers family, from a small town in New Zealand.
The descriptions of how the ‘dirty’ children are treated is painful, especially rendered in this remarkable reading by Heather Bolton.
The local rubbish-dump is a symbol for how families like this survived in New Zealand society of the time; it is where the children play, where they find ‘treasure’, and where tragedy strikes.
This is why I get mad at the publishing industry sometimes. This book should be a classic--it's up there w. such stream of conciousness toucstones as Ulysses and To the lighthouse--the most fascinating language and steeliest eye, clever motifs and full of well earned heart ache though never sentimental
Realistic, heartbreaking, and the most humanly depressing thing I've ever read. This is going to take me months to get over.
An unsettling and utterly original work of genius, Owls Do Cry heralded the arrival of Janet Frame on the international literary scene and kicked off a period of staggering creativity in which she would publish nine novels in fifteen years.
Subsequent sections take place “twenty years after” and follow the three remaining Withers siblings as they suffer setbacks and struggle to remain connected and yet establish independent identities and lives of their own.
The reality of these scenes is fluid and hard to nail down—hospital staff are monsters, a wall is a mountain—but it is in this section that Frame’s prose and narrative imagery achieve the vivid and poetic heights for which she was to become famous.
Having read three of Frame's works previous to this in my usually haphazardly headlong fashion, I can say with confidence that this is one of her more straightforward pieces.
Not a one.Frame reads like if Tim Burton had guts and went whole hog into the feelings of menace lurking just below the veneer of civil society and white people domesticity.
If I had read this before Scented Gardens for the Blind, I would've liked the latter less, for SGftB feels cheap in comparison with its enclosed reality cop out and multiple disabilities unexperienced by the author.
The scene where she tries to impress the cultured doctor with Beethoven's 5th Symphony is hilarious, as too her beauty products equating expense with effectiveness.The internal dialogue of Daphne in the mental hospital is inspired and shows that Frame was a talent right from the start.
Finally, Toby is a tragic figure that lacks inspiration and embodies all the hatreds Frame had about the stultifying parochial New Zealand of the 50s & 60s.
I am inclined to believe that Owls Do Cry is about how about how the author, Janet Frame, was treated in her youth during her mental illness.
first the farm cries from the hill, the lariat of surging animal talk whipped in and out of the morning mist....." I chose this because this novel provides no good quotes to choose from, so instead I picked a piece of prose that the author uses when speaking in Daphne's voice.
Something I learnt from this book was how badly and rudely people with medical illnesses are treated,now, and then.This is a bit of a confusing read, but a good one.
‘Owls Do Cry glows with the inner light of (Frame’s) human awareness—a cool flame that neither cauterises nor heals but in some mystic ways purifies, substituting an essential beauty for superficial pain and squalor.’Sunday Herald Tribune‘When I first read it at 14, the same age as Daphne is in the novel…her dark eloquent song captured my heart.’Jane Campion‘Owls Do Cry is a devastating reflection on the character of conventional society and the dangers that await those who reject its narrowness…It is also a vivid social document, capturing the language and texture of the postwar period.
This should really be a 5 star rating and y'all know it.
I have just put off reading a Janet Frame novel for the longest time.
I've got quite the collection of her works, love her poetry and stories, fell in love with her when I had to read THE BATH at high school and of course have several unread novels lying on my shelves in wait.
I couldn't read again (for the summer at least).
I allowed myself to put her novels on a pedestal and so my expectations were as ludicrous as you'd expect from someone admiring but never immersing themselves.
IT SHOULD BE A FIVE STAR RATING.
Possibly one of the saddest books I’ve read in a long time, but totally lacking in sentiment or self-pity.
It is the story of an ordinary New Zealand family seen from a different person’s perspective throughout the novel, namely the three surviving children of Bill and Amy Withers: Toby, the son who has epilepsy; Daphne, the daughter in a mental institution and Theresa (aka Chicks), the “normal” one with social aspirations.
How Daphne perceives the world around her and the people she encounters contains the most poetic imagery, but despite the abuse Daphne suffers in the home, it is the passages from Theresa’s diary in which she unknowingly describes her desperate need to be accepted by those she considers her “betters” that are the most moving.
This is a heartbreaking account of tragedy and alienation, but it takes a human scale. Frame's writing is elliptical and poetic, and the story by turns emerges from and dissolves back into her description of the emotional and physical worlds of her characters. She exposes the vulnerability of every character in a way that is both raw and compassionate. Every character--no matter how brief their appearance in the story--struggles with the tremendous weight of their existence in a different way. There is suffering, but no blame, even in Frame's painful depiction of Daphne's institutionalization.
Recommended by my grandma and sitting on my bookshelf for years, so we'll see? <-------before readingAfter reading -------->Ever read one of those books that is too metaphoric for it's own good? This is it. Once I finally figured out what was going on I liked it. But it took awhile to figure out what that was with so much of it being buried in vagueness. I also generally don't like walking away from a book feeling like nothing really happened. No characters really progressed or changed or developed. Final say would be "enjoyable, but too 'literary' for it's own good."
This a beautiful very arresting novel. It covers Janet Frame's early life in New Zealand but in fiction rather than autobiography. Frame does things in this novel that would never be allowed in a Cr Wr workshop (with point of view, for ex. and time frame) and the novel is stunningly original as a result. I recommend it.
One long protracted cry of sadness against the grimy sadness of the world.
This evocative novel offers insight into not only mental illness and the terror of going through electrode-convulsive therapy, but also grief, family dysfunction and loss.
