https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1818286.Our_Spoons_Came_from_Woolworths
Right down to the title.Social surrealism -- and as with Comyns' best works, things can get nonchalantly weird and horrific, blindsiding the reader and then going on as if nothing much had happened.And through those details, those structural rhythms, Comyns has a kind of social purpose.
Not exactly feminist here as the narrator wouldn't have possibly considered things on those terms, but her strength of character, and Comyns', draw attention to subtle, and not-so-subtle, realities and gender politics in a constant undercurrent.
Novels by women, about women, of all ages and walks of life; I haven't read one yet I didn't like.From a note by the author on the title page: "The only things true in this story are the wedding and Chapters 10, 11 and 12 and the poverty ".
This story has a happy, storybook ending, which we know from the first paragraph, but the journey to get us there is special because of the voice of Sophia, a naive young girl who believes that love is all you need, but comes to find out that's not quite true.
Great Warty looked at me from his glass house, so I took him out and let him walk up my arm until he fell in the bed, then I made tunnels out of the bedclothes for him to walk slowly through and he looked prehistoric."Wonderful!When Sophia talks about what happens to her as she goes into labour, we realise (as readers in the 21st century), the deplorable state of affairs of maternity wards in the 1930s.
She is not only treated with rudeness and an uncaring attitude but she is forced to carry her suitcase from one ward room to another whilst in the early stages of labour.
It is narrated by Sophia in her youthful, passive voice.
She meets a man called Charles on a train, they are both carrying artists' portfolios, and they soon decide to marry.
Sophia and Charles marry in haste and live a chaotic and ungrounded life.
It is written in a chatty, conversational way as she describes happy and sad events.
There is an isolated feel to her words as she struggles to understand her new life.
The novel touches on a variety of themes including marriage and love, happiness and fulfilment.
Sophia gains in experience and grows into a young, optimistic woman.
"Things one dreads usually are: it's only the things we look forward to that go all wrong.""There seemed no point in being good or bad; everything was so dreadful in any case."At times, sad and pessimistic, and at others, quirky, comical and entertaining, Comyn's 'Spoons' was my introduction to her work.
I'm not entirely sure if I appreciated this as much as many have on here due to reading it in small doses on a long flight to and from a very distant location, but as I rated this a '3', I can say that I'm not turned off by her writing and she was (in my opinion) better at story-telling than writing, and that's why I gave it a higher rating than I initially felt.Not bad, but I didn't always feel like it was worth completing.
Something to pass the time.
On the copyright page of Our Spoons Came from Woolworths is the italicized comment "The only things that are true in this story are the wedding and Chapters 10, 11 and 12 and the poverty." Despite the disclaimer I suspect many dimensions of this novel are autobiographical.
It's told in Sophia's voice made infectiously innocent by Comyns.
Even if the story of a young woman's passage to happiness has been told countless times, Comyns makes it interesting.
But then I remind myself the ending is not included in the truths Comyns claims for the novel in her famous disavowal on the copyright page.
Compelling and deeply moving narration.The story of Sophia, told by herself, was very sad (although she had at the end her HEA).
Her way of storytelling about her life was totally gripping.Like I read in an introduction to my copy it was an account of a marriage dismantled by poverty.
Like I wrote earlier, Sophia's innocence took all that sadness at a new level.It was also a poignant woman voice.
The voice that wanted to tell us something very important about women, woman's lot, dreams, struggles.Sophia's voice was like a song of a little bird in a cage.
More people should read and love this.Sophia plunges into marriage with the man of her dreams, but poverty (emotional and actual) takes its toll.
There is a happy ending and a second chance at love, but the emotional heft comes in the painful disintegration of Sophia's first marriage.
(hide spoiler)]The happy ending may feel a little manufactured (although it is very satisfying), but, in fact, much of OSCFW is based on Comyns' own disastrous first marriage, and happy second one.
and hardly noticed me going." My parents would want to mark that sentence with red ink, so that it would look like this: "Then he discovered a stream at the end of the garden .
and hardly noticed my going." "Me" is used like this throughout the novel, and each time I wanted to scream, "my".)P.S. I read the Introduction AFTER reading the book, and recommend that to others.
I'm just sorry that I've come to the end of the three pack of her books that I bought and I currently don't have anything else by her in the house to read.Having read little bits about her, it sounds as though this tale is in part inspired by her own life.
This may make it sound like a worthy and grim novel that has a great many violins playing and is designed to make you feel bad about your own comfortable life, but it's really not like that.
She isn't looking for sympathy and she doesn't particularly feel sorry for herself.
They settle on a “secret” and “private” marriage at the local church, but they tell so many people that on the day of the ceremony the church is full of friends, family and odd acquaintances.The book starts out on a very humorous tone as Sophia is extremely naïve about marriage, sex and motherhood.
When she becomes pregnant and is forced to quit her job Charles is annoyed at having a baby in the house and having his only source of income cut off.The scenes in which Sophia finds out about her pregnancy are absolutely hilarious.
I'm a sucker for the naive, eternally optimistic protagonist in the coming-of-age novel!
Sophia walks the tightrope between innocence and worldliness, as she survives through "beastly poverty" and some not very nice men.
Whimsical and at times brutal, but never melancholic, this is another book I found myself rationing over the last week.
While I was swept away by The Vet's Daughter's strange gothic current, this lesser known gem was more like a delightful babbling brook - but don't look too close, or you'll see the dead fish floating.
Really enjoyed this! A hysterical portrait of a bohemian marriage.
https://www.youtube.com/embed/vuhVccH...
Author Maggie O'Farrell championed this particular book and two things that she said about it really stuck with me.
The other thing she emphasised was the voice of the narrator -- distinctive, without any obvious literary influences, like no other.
Sophia, narrator and protagonist, is a young girl -- just 21 -- who marries her boyfriend Charles because it seems like a thing to do.
This attitude, in itself, makes the book seem like a period piece.
(Or, we've slept together now so we might as well marry.) Sophia and Charles are both fairly well-born but not at all well-to-do.
From then on things don't really get better for the heroine until the very end.Sophia tells the story from her point of view and her voice is an endearing mixture of childish naivete and matter-of-fact report without any sentimentality, which is very funny at times and makes it bearable to read through all the horrible things that happen to her.
While the writing might not be to everyone's taste, I was engrossed by Sophia's story from page one and couldn't put this down until the end.
While I liked this very much, I think the sense of plotlessness would probably irritate many people. On the other hand, the plotlessness is set up in parallel to the subject matter in a way that looks effortless & spontaneous, so I think it works very well. The only thing that bothered me was the frame of the narrative, which is pat and easy. The whole story is funny and engaging, maybe even an off-kilter brand of charming. The library doesn't have any more Barbara Comyns and I find that unfortunate.
Charles is only really interested in his painting, while Sophia tries her best to become a good wife, to cook and clean and keep their home nice, but she has little experience and is a bit out of her depth.
After that helpful hints for the poor were forgotten.”There is a good deal of humour in this sometimes dark little story, some real laugh out loud moments and Sophia’s naivety is often charming as well as a bit irritating.
Poor Sophia is soon to bitterly regret both her hasty marriage and her adultery.
I couldn’t help feeling that she would be appalled by the social media age where every day occurrences seem to be blown into a major drama.Here the part which is used for the title perfectly sums up the style used throughout the novel:I had hoped they would give us a set of real silver teaspoons when we bought the wedding-ring, but the jeweller we went to wouldn’t, so our spoons came from Woolworths, too.We start with the young, and she was very young only twenty-one, woman embarking on married life, against the wishes of practically everyone, to Charles who is an artist.
It feels morally acceptable, OK, to smile with Sophia's way of putting things, because you keep thinking, "it surely will not get very bad, she lives in England after all", but of course it does, and terrible tragedies happen to her as a result of malnutrition and illness.
Sophia explains that when she married they couldn't afford silver spoons, so they bought them in Woolworth's, a general store that doesn't exist anymore.
Sophia and Charles are two young artists who fall in love and marry "in haste", with very little money.
Well, the fun is in the way Sophia tells her story.
This girl needs to grow up, and fast.I’d heard such good rumblings about Comyns’ writing that it came as rather a shock to discover a style so different from what I’m used to; a deliberately unsophisticated style that I was a little weary of at first.
Women, it seems, suffer most particularly in Comyns’ world, experiencing an outrageous lack of support, particularly when it comes to children and the raising of them.
As we are made aware from the start, thankfully our girl comes good in the end; growing to be a not-quite-so naïve woman with prospects, a healthy child and a pronounced sense of hindsighthttp://relishreads.com/2015/04/04/our...
This is the very strange story of a young 21-year-old Sophia, living in London just after World War II.
Life was hard in Europe at the time, it is the middle of a depression and many people were struggling to get by.
What was so strange about the book is that the story is told from Sophia's eyes and she has quite a dry sense of humor.
The story was mostly sad, at times extremely sad, yet there were some almost laugh out loud parts.
At other times you want to cheer Sophia on when things are getting better.
She writes in first-person about marriage, poverty, and giving birth.
There is a note at the beginning of the novel that most is fiction, but chapters 10-12 are true.
Well, those chapters are about giving birth in a pre-war London hospital and they are terrifying.
I read this a lot in the middle of the night while nursing my baby, and I won't lie--there were times I cried and felt a connection to this (somewhat fictional) narrator in the wee hours.Throughout the novel, the writing felt familiar, but I couldn't pinpoint that feeling.
The pet fox, the asshole husband, the horrors of giving birth in public hospitals, the never-ending scramble for extra shillings.
I read the public hospital passages out loud to my pregnant friend in order to traumatize her.*****UPDATE: Re-read Sept 21 2017Was able to pound through this in a day!
Also seemed appropriate that the book ends with her narrating her story to a female friend, and that's what finally allows her to complete a creative work (aka, the book itself).
This is the story of Sophia, married very young to a very young self-absorbed artist called Charles.
A large part of the point of the novel is to revisit the poverty Comyns experienced in the thirties, which is a gruelling ordeal that seems like a physical manifestation of the utter lack of any emotional support from Charles.
Their unsteady life together ends in a tragedy, after which Sophia spends a spell of time working as a cook before having a Cinderella-style happy ending, marrying someone we see very briefly.
Poverty and pregnancies lead to disaster, but finally there is a very happy ending.Although the book is rather light on the whole, there are sad parts too, and several vivid description of hospitals which make one very glad that medical science has moved on.The prose style is very unusual - Sophia writes like quite a young child throughout, but all the same other characters emerge clearly through what they say for themselves.This is perhaps not a great or an important novel, but many readers will cherish it.
This starts off being the story of a young couple – Charles and Sophia, the first person narrator who is recounting the story of their lives eight years later.
Charles and Sophia are both artists and they meet when they are 20 and decide to get married a year later.
As young artists, they have very little money and even less family support to start their marriage.
Interesting things about this book – it is a story being narrated so there isn’t conversation, just this one person’s view of what is happening.
Sophia e Charles dunque si sposano, nonostante l’avversità dei parenti di lui, e si arrangiano acquistando o raccattando i mobili dagli amici, e il gioielliere, dato il modesto valore delle fedi scelte, non regala loro neanche i cucchiaini d’argento – come d’uso a quei tempi – tanto che la coppia deve acquistarli da Woolsworth (il titolo originale del romanzo è appunto questo, Our spoons came from Woolsworth - I nostri cucchiaini provenivano da Woolsworth).Se in un primo momento Sophia sembra avventata e incosciente, la nascita del primo figlio (Sandro, come Botticelli) le instilla un po’ di senso di responsabilità.
I didn’t want to finish this book - each time I opened it up I felt like I was having a cup of tea and listening to my friend Sophia retelling her life story to me. Comyn’s choice of language is quite simply beautiful.
La protagonista del romanzo, Sophia, è totalmente naif, al punto da stupirsi e intristirsi grandemente quando scopre di essere incinta:I had a kind of idea if you controlled your mind and said "I won't have any babies" very hard, they most likely wouldn't come.
I thought that was that was meant by birth-control, but by this time I knew that idea was quite wrong.(37)http://robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2...
