https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7735333-matched
It was horrible I tell you!Matched tells the story of Cassia Reyes, robot extraordinaire, who lives in this nameless City run by the Society.
But Cassia simply must know why the Society fudged up, and thus says, "Looks like it's up to ME!"Let's burn this little suckah down to the GROUND WHERE IT BELONGS:Writing.
Jesus fuck, that doesn't make ANY SENSE.They shouldn't be trusted, I got that, but how can we tell if the Society wants Cassia dead or whatever when we don't even know the head honcho of the Society?
I want to write a book just like it!ACondieHottie: I wish The Giver had more romance, though.
ACondieHottie: Do u ever get confused?ACondieHottie: Are u still there?2timeNewbery has logged off.
April 5, 2004 • AOL Chatroom AuthorTalkACondieHottie: Hiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!!!2timeNewbery: Hello, Allie.ACondieHottie: Ally!ACondieHottie: I started writing a book!!
2timeNewbery: Sorry.ACondieHottie: I'm almost finished with my book, but I keep writing myself into corners.
;)ACondieHottie: Can I tell you something?ACondieHottie: I really want my book to be just like yours!
Ur online!!!2timeNewbery: Hello, Allie.ACondieHottie: Ally!ACondieHottie: Did u receive the ARC of my book, Matched?
What Condie adds of her own is too often doesn't make much sense - people are not allowed/can't write, but they know how to read and operate computers; Matches and procreation are controlled but teens can still snog around a bit; and what is the sorting job all about, I still have no idea.
I am not the biggest fan of The Giver our there, but that novel had a horrifying, structured, world hiding behind its simplistic language.
Yawn!Ally Condie's writing is serviceable enough.
Something bad's going to happen!"Then we see the ultimate demon bad guy and it's supposed to be such a horrifying bit (y'know, where the thing appears behind the hot dad's head) and my sister screams like a coyote, but I'm absolutely dying with laughter because the thing looks exactly like Darth Maul.
She punches me and yells, "Why are you laughing?"We keep watching and then we find out about the woman in the veil, and then there's some more astral projection BS, and then when we finally see this so-called demon in full flesh the thing looks like the weird goat devil thing from Powerpuff Girls (you know, the thing wearing the pink apron?).
I was expecting it to be fantastic, but unfortunately, it wasn’t.
It didn’t even come close to fantastic.
Damn you, Matched, I told you to make me love you!I wish I could give this book points for the setting, but that barely happened.
I don’t understand why the artifacts had to be taken away or why the maple trees had to be cut.
I don’t understand why everyone follows these ridiculous rules like tame lambs, never questioning anything, always obeying.
I don’t understand anything because she doesn’t explain anything because she goes on and on about Ky. YES, WE GET IT.
Matched drew me in with it's unique summary and beautiful cover, unfortunately that is where my fascination ended.I wanted to like this book....
It didn't get a whole lot better for me.I guess my biggest problem was that I was bored for most of the novel.
And that's all that it felt like to me, an obsession.
Why are there people that live in The Society and others that don't?
It felt like a very long prologue to another story.The few chapters at the end of the story piqued my interest somewhat, but even then it was tainted with how I had felt through most of the entire novel.
Soo... basic storyline being of a society where officials decide every aspect of a person's life from the big stuff as in who they'll marry (or be 'matched' with) and when they'll die to the little stuff like what they eat, how they dress and their daily routines. The story tells how Cassia is matched to a boy but falls for another and suddenly begins to question the rules of the society, heading as she does so straight into a world of secrets and danger. Great sounding plot, am I right? Too ba
The story tells how Cassia is matched to a boy but falls for another and suddenly begins to question the rules of the society, heading as she does so straight into a world of secrets and danger.
However, my love for dystopia is concentrated on the high action and/or shocking tragedy that define the genre.
In my opinion, it's hard to feel a great sense of dystopia in Matched.
Maybe I'm just a twisted individual but the society wasn't 'bad' enough for me.And the love story.
There may be hope for this love story yet.The ending was the most commendable part of the novel.
Everything around her seems perfect when you look at it superficially but when you try to analyze it deeper there society was perfect but they have no choices, no freedom at all, they're like society's puppets.c. The love story- at first the love story was idk just a love story, but it has actually implies idk what you call that uhhhm symbolism or whatever...so yeah this is what I just think about it:Xander vs Kyor this could mean (own interpretation folks)Conformity vs.
Yeah but I think since this book was in the genre of utopia/dystopia, maybe there were just a few things/elements that will be always similar like:-The Political Intrigue-Human vs.
a lot of people compare this to The Giver, and i get it, in that they are both these forced-utopias, but then, so is The Stepford Wives, yeah?
which i will read because even books like this that are only okay have enough page-turning-ness to keep me interested.
You have to understand, I had a "thing" for utopian societies in high school.
And what struck me about some of them was that it was supposed to be the perfect, future society, but everyone just seemed so sweaty .
It was what kept me reading, along with the flawlessness of this serene Society which Ally Condie has created.So, this book has been heavily promoted.
(I should be so lucky as to have PR like this!) And with that comes the fear that the book itself isn't very good, just the PR team.
This book is like a long train ride.
When I first got on I was like, "Oh man, look at this train!
Look at all the people!
*peeping out the windows*, *looking at the scenery*." Then, after about 40 pages I was like, "You know what?
This scenery is kind of repetitive.
I'm getting kind of bored.
Maybe I'll check out the dining car." After a little bit longer, I was second-guessing my decision to take the train at all and wondering about my sanity level.
The train will leave again, probably next year.
And you know what?
5.5 scorching soul-matched stars.... Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day;Rage, rage against the dying of the light."I push myself hard.The words of Thomas poems so wild and beautiful that i keep reapeating them silently as i run..Do not go gentle,do not go gentle,do not go gentle,until realization hits me :There's a reason thy didn't keep this poem.This poem tells you to fight."Though wise men at their end know dark is right,Because their words had
This book defiantly surpassed all my expectations...Thats probably the reason im giving this a 5.
i loved the dystopic theme and the strong character buiding the author decided to follow on .But again,Yes,there's no denying.i did find the plot moving to a bit to slow, but then again the book's great narration and unpredicated ending,defiantly made it self up to me .all in all..not a bad read !
I’ve been going back to a few books I called DNFs several years ago because some (like Shatter Me) turned out to be new favorites.
I had forgotten most of this plot, so it was fun to see it be almost new.
I love typical dystopian YA setups with a 1984-type society and some kind of one sorting/test at the start.
This one also had a clever way to set up the necessary love triangle.
I get that she’s a product or reflection of her dystopian society, but reading from the POV of a naive robot got reallllly irritating after 100 pages.
I did reach page 167 in just a couple of hours.But even tho I enjoyed it, I don't know if I'm intrested enough to keep going with this series.I've heard that the second book is not worth reading since nothing really happens in it, so I did plan to skip it and just read some spoilery review for it but I also don't know feel like picking up the last book in the series.I just don't care enough about the characters and the situation to invest time in it.
Cassia's "Society" is pretty much just a cross between "The Giver" and "1984." But halfway through the book I really didn't care what the red pill did, and when we found out I thought "yeah, I guess that's about right." I also thought "If you're only allowed to take those pills at the command and in the presence of a high official, then why do people carry them around with them at all times, anyway?
Everyone loves a distopian future setting these days, and if "Twilight" is any indication, girls will gobble up the romance.
This book is just a crappier, romance-oriented, version of the Giver, and I didn’t even like that one!
Yeah, we don’t tell you much about who we are and what we do, like ever, but none of y’all have turned into Tin-foil Hats, so just continue on with life, and do as we say.
Anyways, home girl Cassia, gets matched with her best friend Xander and is all like, "Yippy!
I am gonna have a great life, and live happily ever after!" But when when the idea of a different guy being an option comes into play, things turn into, "Oh dang, sorry Xander, but I'm droppin' yo' ass!
I really wanted it to be as good as her publisher thinks it is.I sat down Friday afternoon with my friend's ARC (and more than a little anxiety) and didn't close the book until I finished.
You never know when an Official is going to pop up in Cassie's seemingly perfect life to call her out for insubordination to the society's propaganda.Condie ties a clean writing style into this sterile dystopia which builds on the naivete of its citizens.
I'm glad Dutton is pushing a book with writing talent, but I think they could have done better on the cover.)
WHAT MADE ME READ THE BOOK?It's a trailer I watched on Youtube, and I was intrigued about it.Matched TrailerAt first, I thought it was just another best friend-loves-best friend-loves-new guy thing.
It got better and better as I read more.(Note: If you think like a writer, you'll know something that might happen.)The plot reminded me a little of Hunger Games (perfect/imperfect Society, rebellion) but it's still great.In the middle of the book, I just then noticed that blue eyes, blonde hair = Peeta, black hair, dark blue eyes = Gale.
In this case, I avoided Matched like the plague because the entire plot seemed to be based on a love triangle, but I was forced to change my mind when I came into possession of the audiobook.
I love that Condie approached the Society in a very mature way, always aware that while it might be bad for some, it saved many others; and I don’t just mean those who hold the power, but regular people who are better off because the Society took care of them.
She was never judgmental or harsh, and she understood that people find comfort and happiness in different things, and that for some, nothing works better than having all their decisions taken away from them.
Really disliked it.
I found it espcially hard to believe in her love for (insert forgotten name) as she barely knew him and all that napkin stuff was really cringy.
I would have prefered it if she'd fallen in love with her best friend but been given a different match.
The fact that the matches were so sucessful most of the time was the biggest let down for me.
I also disliked how 'deep' we were supposed to think she was just because she liked some poems.
I would have prefered a little more unhappiness in the society, not much, just a few more whispers behind closed doors.
I liked this well enough, but feel that it's a little slight in plot and structure; I also wasn't enthralled by any of the main characters. Overall, it's a quick, entertaining read, but not a particularly deep or memorable one. This is one of those rare occasions when the film might actually be better than the book.
3 for enjoyment, 2 for substance.Warning: I'm not sure if this turned out to be a review or a philosophical discussion, or some freaky lovechild of the two.  Bear with me... [I'm gonna go with "freaky love child." Why not? Read more HERE.]
Thankfully I have a copy of my review someplace else ugh Review, take two Buddy read with the lovely Aqsa Plot  Our main character, 17 year old cassia, who has been excited about getting matched, discovers that she’s matched with her best friend, Xander, which is shocking because matches usually happen between people that live in different cities/societies and especially not with someone you’ve known your own life.
Matched (Matched, #1), Ally Condieتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم نوامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: مجموعه همسان کتاب اول: همسان؛ نویسنده: آلیسون (آلی) کوندی (کاندی)؛ مترجم: محمدرضا قاسمی؛ تهران، آذرباد، 1394؛ در 386 ص؛ شابک دوره: 9786006225753؛ شابک کتاب اول: 9786006225760؛ از مجموعه همسان کتاب اول؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 21 معنوان کتاب دوم این سه گانه عصیانگر استمأموران تصمیم میگیرند که چه کسی را دوست بدارید، کجا کار کنید، چه زمانی بمیرید. کاسیا همیشه به تصمیمات آنها اطمینان خاطر دا
کاسیا همیشه به تصمیمات آن‌ها اطمینان خاطر داشته است.
با کمک آن‌ها می‌توان زندگی‌ ای طولانی، شغلی عالی و جفتی ایده‌ آل داشت.
پس وقتی که چهره‌ ی بهترین دوستش روی صفحه ی نمایشگر همسانی نقش بست، کاسیا می‌دانست که او همسر آینده‌ اش است...
تا وقتی که دید یک چهره‌ ی دیگر نیز پیش از اینکه صفحه ی نمایشگر سیاه شود، برای یک لحظه به نمایش درآمد.
حال کاسیا با انتخاب‌های غیرممکنی روبرو است؛ انتخاب بین زاندر و کای، بین زندگی‌ ای که یک عمر آن را می‌شناخته و مسیری که هیچ‌ کس دیگری جرأت نداشته در آن گام بگذارد؛ انتخابی بین کمال و عشق.
“Every minute you spend with someone gives them a part of your life and takes part of theirs.” I didn't have high expectation coming into this book. This turned out to be a good thing, because I can only imagine how angry I'd be if I thought this book was going to be good...it wasn't. I wouldn't go so far as to say that this book was terrible, but it just had nothing appealing at all. If you have read The Giver by Lois Lowry, then you would know that it had a very distinct and inspirational, dy
If you have read The Giver by Lois Lowry, then you would know that it had a very distinct and inspirational, dystopian setting.
I'm not even kidding, I truly believe that's what the author was thinking when she wrote this.Ugh, this book.
I actually forgot her name when I first started writing this review.I have a few questions about this book...just a few.-What the heck is sorting and how is it significant to the Society?
But, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone...unless you're a fan of cliche love triangles and haven't read The Giver?
Whilst not a bad book, by any means, I felt as though the plot for this felt a little outdated and recycled from other powerhouses in the dystopian genre.
It was interesting to read of a slower-paced, and less action-based, dystopian and yet, for me, this ended up being this book's undoing.
There was no grand climax or sub-plots and the aspects that initially held my interest ended up being overshadowed by the predictable emergence of a love triangle (yawn!).This had an intriguing plot but lacked a little uniqueness, for me.
I am interested in continuing on with the series but my expectations and exciement have, unfortunately, waned a little.
No... Just...no
Even the main conflict, when Cassia's chip showed her the face of Ky abruptly and quickly when Xander has already been determined to be her match is fascinating and intriguing and these elements would have already been really useful tools to make a really really great story, however, I think the author failed to use these elements very wisely.
I only finished the book because I wanted to know which guy Cassia will end up with but the events leading to that (which will not even be revealed until Book 3) are only slightly interesting.
This is my first review so consequently I feel a little anxious.This book was fascinating.I enjoyed 
1.5 starsUsually I can power through a crappy book and make it to the end but man oh man I just couldn't do it with this damn book.I feel like this entire book was just an intro for the rest of the series. A super. Long. Dragged out. Intro. The conflict was introduced but nothing ever really happened with it. All of the sudden she's in love, like what? Just not a fan. 1.5 stars only bc I like the writing style, the content was lacking
