https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34889261-in-black-and-white
In 1928, Jun'ichirō Tanizaki began three novels: Some Prefer Nettles (Tade kuu mushi), Quicksand (Manji) and In Black and White (Kokubyaku).
The main character, a writer, pens a story about the upcoming murder of another local writer.
In Black and White isn’t the master work that Some Prefer Nettles is, but it is fascinating in its own right for Tanizaki fans, in the same way that The Mystery of Edwin Drood is fascinating for Dickens fans.
I've never read Tanizaki before so I've no idea about his legend status and why that is.
All I know is that here he writes and hides and then writes some more and maybe lies as well; and then leaves me wondering what is really the truth, the one that is written, the one that is imagined, or the one that is hidden underneath all that and not really mentioned but comes out anyway.I do know that there are two sides to what a person is, what a person does and what a person says, even if it is a personal narrative.
“This thing has an interpretation, this one doesn’t”; it is the perfect situation for an anxiety-riddled person to say that the social code is actually working against itself.
The narrator is a novelist who has written an ambiguously dangerous novel.
The narrator is then so unsure of his footing in the world of novelistic criticism, that he takes off into a flight of fancy based on a social code which does actually exist (in this case, that murder is prohibited).
I like how thorough Junichiro Tanizaki is in pursuing this premise of a novel which was a danger to the author who wrote it.
So if you're looking for a crime novel you're probably in the wrong place, it's much more psychological, much more concerned with what's happening within the writer than with what's happening with that murder.I was willing to leave it at this and see it more as an experiment in metafictional writing, but the afterword explains and interprets the entire story in the light of Akutagawa and Tanizaki's public discussions (essays) around the role and the goals of the writer (a blog post about the debate)Apparently while that debate got slowly heated Akutagawa committed suicide, which Tanizaki took personal.
The afterword interprets the story as Tanizaki coming to peace with his (supposed) role in Akutagawa's suicide, not something the average reader (me at least) would know before going into this book.This is a very recent translation published just a few weeks ago.
I've always hated Tanizaki. Until today, I had never even been able to complete one of his novels, finding them either boring or frivolous, pointless. Nevertheless, I decided to give this relatively obscure book a chance because it sounded interesting. I can't believe I totally LOVED it -- it's a paranoid masterpiece. That may say more about me than the novel, nevertheless I feel I need to take another look at his work.
Half nightmarish scenario of paranoid magical thinking, half satire of a particular genre of Japanese realistic fiction (the I novel). The plot is very cleverly constructed, and weirdly compelling, despite mostly taking place in the narrator's head.
Tanizaki is writing about a writer who is writing about a writer who wants to commit the perfect murder by killing a writer.Mizuno is a feckless writer of "diabolism" who, in a last-minute rush, sends a murder story to a major magazine without proper proof-reading.
A further distraction arises when he meets a gorgeous woman in the Ginza, and commences a professional relationship with her, which soaks up all of his money and time.Tanizaki spins this complex plot effortlessly, and keeps the reader guessing all the way to the end.
This novel is awesome and fun.Min Jin Lee, who wrote Pachinko, one of my favorite novels of 2017, reviewed In Black and White in The New York Times Book Review (18 Feb. 2018), which is where I heard about it, and I'm glad I did.
It's "a comic novel satirizing the Japanese confessional narrative" (Lee) and much more.
It's about writers and writing, the function of storytelling, and it contains a fictional murder (as well as a metafictional murder) in the novel's novel-within-a novel.
See, it's all there in black and white.
Originally published in Japan in 1928, this is its first English translation.
Mizuno is a novelist writing about a murder.
He bases the murder victim on someone he knows and inadvertently uses the real name instead of the fictional one in his manuscript and only realises when it’s too late to get it back from the printers.
What if the real man in fact happens to be murdered?
Would not suspicion fall on Mizuno himself?
The translator’s afterword is pretty much essential and certainly very helpful – some background knowledge is needed to really appreciate this often enigmatic novel - but it’s certainly one worth reading.
I have read two of his novels previously and a short book on writing as well.This novel is very bizarre and wonderful in a lot of ways, not the least of which because it was published in 1928 and feels both more ancient and more modern than that date would indicate.
It’s about a novelist named Mizuno who is publishing a serialized manuscript and needs to continue to do so to make money.
He wakes up to a panic realizing that he accidentally used the real name of one of his peers in writing as the murder victim in a recently sent in serial.
The premise of an author writing a book about a murder and then worrying his own story would lead to a murder and his getting arrested -- that appealed to me.
But it feels like it doesn't add up to much.This is one of those books where the translator gets a preface and an afterward, and spends multiple pages telling us how the book we are about to read (or just read) is a masterpiece.
Maybe the translator's added texts just add to the satire?
The accompanying commentary may make a case for why this book is interesting and important, given the cultural/artistic debates of the day.
Perhaps there are people who can extract enjoyment from a book on this sort of analytical/meta level without needing the text itself to be engaging.
I am not one of those people.
The last 20 pages or so got more interesting, but it just didn't redeem it for me.
I was so pleased when it stopped (because it did not end), and found that the rest of the pages in the book were commentary I could skim and skip.
Japanese fiction in the interwar periodIt would take an expert in 20th century Japanese fiction to locate this novel in the national canon, and that expertise is might hard to come by.
To me, the book is reminiscent of great works of psychological fiction from other traditions — Crime and Punishment, Death in Venice, and practically anything by Kafka.
It also presages Mishima’s masterpiece The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, or Camus’ The Stranger, with their neurotic introspection, suffocating delusions, sociopathic self-regard, and venomous contempt of the West.
Well worth reading, but cold as old gruel.
Set in Japanese literary scene in 1920s. An author fantasizes about killing a fellow writer and describes a perfect crime in his serialized story. But accidentally uses the target author’s name. He fails to correct the manuscript before publication leading to an increasingly complex psychological plot. Interesting for the description of early-C20th Japan. But not compelling enough for me to want to read more of his work.
Very dark, very noirish early novel by Tanizaki. Loved the rationalizations the character creates to delay/ dismiss his writing deadlines while wheedling advances out of his publisher. A bit of "jazz age" Japan featuring a "modern girl."
Very interesting backstory for this previously unknown novel. However the story itself is quite tedious. Still, it fills a gap for anyone with a deep interest in this novelist.
Interesting book, and informative as to the writing atmosphere of the times.Full Review:https://ianjoshyateswriting.blogspot....
