https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/721018.Buddhist_Scriptures
I showed this book to one of my Buddhist friends and he explained what the difference between "pure land" and "Zen" Buddhism.
This book is more "pure land" with some ZEN in the back.
Its worth the read to get some history and what the rest of the world practices but if your not a Buddhist or your just want somewhere to start to learn about Buddhism this is not the book for you.
If you’re familiar with things and want some more "indepthness" then get this.To visualize the average American reading this book for the first time would be akin to being a Tibetan Buddhist not knowing anything about Christianity but wanting to learn and someone hands you the Dead Sea scrolls.
Maybe it's just me, but Penguin seems to have the most aggressive Let's-Make-Texts-Boring strategy. There's great stuff in here, but whether it's because of the dry notes or the sawdust-translation, it just doesn't feel like a zinger.
T. Suzuki, Eugen Herrigel or HHDL's books and teachings, like I have, you might be excused to think that it is almost a kind of secular religion, a branch of moral philosophy and epistemology that steers clear from most of the usual metaphysical pitfalls.
And, like all religious texts, the book leaves you with a resolution to be a better person.Personal favourite: Chapter 21, "Proving the Buddha", where the 7th century scholar Dharmakīrti precedes all of western philosophy by a thousand years with sentences such as: "Knowledge is non-deceptive cognition.
Non-deception consists in suitability for the accomplishment of a purpose.
I made an effort to read all the scriptures of all the major religions, and this work is the only one that stood out and made it onto my desert island bookshelf, which was just one shelf.
From the thousands of books I read, (About 10-15% listed here.) so very very few stood out.
It's been a long time since I read this book and all those others, but what I remember is joy to the reading, rare in scriptures, a sophisticated innocence, which is even more rare.
Good collection of Buddhist scriptures. Another "made for Westerners" style document, with a rather diverse source of Buddhist documents from various traditions. I like how Conze organized it into a New Testament, but it should be noted, which I don't think Conze did a fully, that few traditions would be familiar with all of the documents presented in the book, and would agree with them 100% (obviously, since some are labelled "Mahayana" or (sorry) "Hinayana.") Decent introduction to Buddhism for the Westerner. Fun read for others.
Confusing af. Seriously, what the heck Buddhism lol. Super thankful tomorrow is the last day we discuss this book in class. Buddhists: I don't know how you understand this stuff, but man I commend you for doing it.-500/10 would never read again
This is a book of selected scriptures attributed to various Buddhist schools of several centuries.
Thus, while the book is put together so that it flows well, the scriptures that it quotes may seem a little piecemeal.
This book gives a good outline of this belief, and is therefore a good starting point for any who wish to know more about the philosophy.
I do know that there are many people who have used meditation as a way to control anxiety, anger issues, and depression, so I am aware that at least some good can come from using the methods.
This book is a nice enough anthology of Buddhist sutras, stories, and other texts from various Buddhist cultures throughout Asia, particularly Mahayana traditions.
It definitely seems geared more towards readers with a casual interest in Buddhism, as the translations and the author's commentaries on the different texts read more like a glossary than an in-depth exploration.
However, there are a lot of good, pithy readings on some fundamental aspects of Buddhist thought and practice, such as the Three Jewels (Triratna), the Buddha's life and family, Buddhist cosmology, karma stories, and the like.
As a practitioner of Zen Buddhism, it did not take too long to recognize that most of the texts within this compilation are drawn from the Pure Land school of Mahayana Buddhism.
The texts of Mahayana Buddhism are great in number and the traditions passed from generation to generation are greater and so the texts contained within this collection are only a very small fraction of Mahayana Buddhist scriptures.
However, the compilation is of much worth to any who are serious about studying Mahayana Buddhism; the texts are inexhaustible and contain much wisdom.
All scriptures, regardless of the religion, have sublime passages as well as parts that are dry as Tyrannosaurus bones. Donald Lopez presents a wide variety of Buddhist Scriptures diverse in time and culture. This collection is quite entertaining with fewer dry bones, yet Lopez doesn't shy away from the important doctrinal texts. Reading this book expanded my understanding of Buddhism and of the diversity within this religion.
Somewhat naively I was expecting to read a book filled with historical Buddhist teachings. Whilst there were a few gems in this collection of mythologies and stories they pale in comparison to other Buddhist works.Beyond this disappointment the work was nicely translated and explained well by the editor.
Boiling down a huge canon to a few choice selections is a thankless, if not impossible, task. The editor did a reasonably good job of including representative excerpts from a wide range of texts to illustrate major points, but there is so much that is left out it compromises the value of the work as a whole.
The only thing about this book I didn't like is the fact that the labguage has not been updated since it was originally published. This can be a little distracting, as the lingo used is definitely dated. I hope to see a revised version in the future!
I was disappointed by my own expectations, to which this collection of texts, many summarized rather than offered in their entirety, simply could not live up. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/09/bud...
9 years reading this, on and off - because I kept getting bored. Some pieces were valuable and insightful to me, and many of Lopez's introductions are excellent (not to mention helpful), but much of it I found hard-going and impenetrable, unfortunately.
I only read the story of the life of Buddha (this collection has other things in it) and it was pretty much the worst telling of that story I have ever read. If you want to know about Buddhism I would recommend The Words of My Perfect Teacher.
This classic brings amazing translations of tantras, sutras, poems, and more from way back in the Buddhist canon. Also contains succinct description of Siddhartha's getting of wisdom, and even a description of the future Buddha of the next age, Maitreya.
Time off martial arts training was an excellent opportunity to digest this dharma work. I am grateful toward the mild illness for creating this window of opportunity!
ehhhhhhhh
one of the best
I read this as part of a course at Lancaster University. One of my many favourite Buddhist volumes.
A pretty heavy read for a dive into Buddhism. it takes some time to get through.
The narratives of legends from ancient times that have shaped the cultures and values of people all over the world are more than worth looking into, but beware of some of the boredom that may ensue.
aside from some interesting stories, this one was kinda boring. gives you a good overview of what is deemed inspired writings by Buddhism
interesting sampling of historic material
