https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5861926-the-sword-thief
Amy and Dan’s treasure hunt continues in Japan: many adventures and some really surprising twists in such a short story. Highly recommended! Dan's eyes were cast upward, gawking at a steel structure that rose above the park."Cool, someone brought over the Eiffel Tower and painted it red and white!"Alistair smiled. "The Tokyo Tower is taller than its Parisian counterpart, but also lighter, due to advances in steel construction -- advances that were developed, may I add, by an Ekat engineer. My il
Amy and Dan’s treasure hunt continues in Japan: many adventures and some really surprising twists in such a short story. Highly recommended!
  Dan's eyes were cast upward, gawking at a steel structure that rose above the park."Cool, someone brought over the Eiffel Tower and painted it red and white!"Alistair smiled. "The Tokyo Tower is taller than its Parisian counterpart, but also lighter, due to advances in steel construction -- advances that were developed, may I add, by an Ekat engineer. My illustrious family.”
E ovog puta se primeti da imamo novog pisca. Cccc, šteta. Nije da puno smeta ali ima manjih reakcija kod glavnih likova koje nisu na nivou prethodne dve i umeju da bodu oči. Do kraja se navikne na to ali malo smeta.Sem toga nema šta puno reći, opet skačemo po egzotičnim lokacijama. Akcije ima više pošto naravno da su morali da ubace ninje i yakuze i činjenica da je svaki azijat kung fu majstor. Dobro ovde imamo jednog azijata al opet:PSve u svemu na nivou prethodnih i potraga se nastavlja.
A fun, fast adventure, but no where near as substantive or satisfying as the first 2 in the series.
It felt like watching a Disney TV series, each chapter ending in a cliffhanger; thank goodness there were no commercials.
I really miss the strong historical bent of the first 2 books.
There was some info here about the Japanese historical figure, but not nearly as much as in the past books.
There was some nice character development, humor, and, as I said, terrific adventure.
If this had been the first book in the series I would have enjoyed it but probably not bothered with additional books.
Unlike The 39 Clues Book Two: One False Note where the action is non-stop, in The 39 Clues Book Three: The Sword Thief things slow down, and we get to know the characters better, especially the rivals, as they pursue their quest for the 39 clues.
It reminded me of The 39 Clues Book One: The Maze of Bones, where all the characters were introduced and we got a good picture of them.With this book the reader gets a chance to get his bearings and to recap all the events that now leads the brother-and-sister duo team of Amy and Dan Cahill to Japan and Korea.
If it had continued with non-stop action as in Book Two, the impetus that keeps the reader emotionally involved would have been lost.
Seriously, Korean food is tha BOMB.And then I read The Sword Thief and now I hate Koreans again.The third book in the 39 Clues series (I can’t believe I’m only one-thirteenth of the way through this series.
The first is a mysterious Korean uncle to two white kids (you still haven’t explained this to my satisfaction, writers), who alternates between wanting to help the kids and wanting to hurt the kids to help himself.
Strike three, writers.The second creepy-as-all-get-out element is Amy Cahill’s crush on her COUSIN.
And I thought it was pretty clear that she and Dan despise the Kabras so much though it was mentioned earlier that Amy, herself had a teeny tiny crush on her cousin Ian.Unlike the previous books in the series, this had a very few exciting moments.
Either way, I wouldn't understand a thing if it's an action scene, probably because my mind is just tired of cooperating.It was fast paced but I would really have liked it better if Peter had given off much more to the storyline.
I'm holding the fourth book right now and I can't wait to read this sometime.
Alistair actually played them straight in this book.I knoew the Karbas couldn't play things straight with the Cahills, but why is the writer giving Ian a semi-interest in Amy as well?It was a little sad when Ian & Natalie leave Amy, Dan & Uncle Alistair high and dry in the end of this search, but good job Dan, not giveing complete information, so the Kabras will be off track, at least for a bit in the next journey.Amy & Dan are off to Eqypt.
The Sword Thief follows the Cahills as they travel to their next destination, Japan and not too far behind them are their competitors in the race for the ultimate prize.
What the prize is, no one knows yet, but this book will soon reveal the answer.
Personally I felt the Sword Thief was a little more rushed than the previous books.
I liked the recurring appearances of the siblings' opponents throughout their clue-hunting.
(distantly but still, add this to the fact that they're enemies) I like how each 39 clues book finishes with a major cliffhanger.
The Sword Thief (The 39 Clues #3), Peter Lerangisعنوان: دزد شمشیر - کتاب سوم از 39 سرنخ؛ نویسنده: پیتر لرانگیس؛ مترجم: بهشته خادم شریف؛ تهران، ویدا، 1392، در 152 ص، شابک: 9786002910202؛
Biraz romantika... Yeni obrazlar və intriqa... Müəllif dəyişikliyinin heç bir təsiri yoxdur.
I knew it.I loved it.I want to punch them.I wanted Amy and Ian together.
The way he described people and places was great, so I hope he keeps that for the other book he writes for this series.I'm SO looking forward to buy the next book when it gets to my country.Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll go listen I Knew You Were Trouble by Taylor Swift, Trecherous by her too and Steal Your Heart by Ross Lynch, for Ian and Amy, at least a thousand times.
Book three on the 39 clues has a lot of action and leaves you on a lot of cliff hangers.Amy and Dan 
Ну воот, может же автор когда захочет. Эта часть на порядок интереснее второй, но до первой правда не дотягивает. Наконец-то начала прорисовываться любовная линия. Любопытно что с ней там выкрутят. Сюжет отличный: поиски, якудза, временные союзы, предательства и опять подземка. Так их туда и тянет. В общем, этой частью я очень довольна. Третья будет про Эгипет, поэтому я уже бегу ее читать. Любопытство берет верх.
I thought this book was good for the most part, but it kind of got a little boring and i don't think ill be continuing the series.
3.5 stars
With the third installment, even Jack's enthusiasm for the series is fading. Having various middle-grades rockstar authors write each book is a clever marketing ploy I guess, but it makes the series uneven and it seems like the characters are different people each book. It wasn't my favorite series to begin with and thankfully Jack is ready to move on to something better.
Историята ни отвежда в Япония, където се сблъскваме с якудза, но се спасяваме на косъм и пътя ни препраща до тайни пещери в Корея.. още едно вълнуващо приключение и още един ключ като за петичка!
The Sword Thief is an amazing book that kept me hooked all the way! When the Cahill siblings are lead to Japan, they team up with some unlikely allies in the race for the 39 clues, and have several near-death experiences. I personally would give the book six out of five stars.
I enjoy these books. Cute and not too dramatic. I take that back, not too adult dramatic.
It seemed like it was written by an older person with no idea how kids actually talk, instead throwing in lots of "like"s and "hip-hop music", etc, which made the writing and the story cheesy and dumb instead of funny and genuine.In this installment, Amy and Dan head to Japan, following a new clue they've received, and must decide whether or not to form an alliance with their uncle, Allister Oh, who's betrayed them once...
but they're currently facing a bigger betrayal from their cousins, and Allister could prove a good ally.There wasn't as much history talked about in this book as the first two, which was disappointing, as I really liked that aspect of the series.
Solutions make no sense, and even when they come, they lead to greater misunderstanding than what they clear up.
On that score, it's about par for this series.There's an anagram at the end of the book.
Dan sends off the Kabras on one "solution" that is the wrong one.
Amy then says that the right "right" solution is yet another permutation that would take them to Egypt.
Once again, I'm struck with how this book seems like "The DaVinci Code" for kids, even though I already thought DaVinci Code was childish enough.One interesting aspect of this series is that the books are by different authors.
(My 11 year old son's rating.)
I'm going to give a generic review of the series.
All three of us that have read 39 Clues thought Book 2 the weakest of the series.
But as one son said, after finishing the series, "Gordon Korman seems to be getting better.
I think he's a decent author now." Some of the books are better at teaching the history part, others just barely skim the surface and you don't really learn about the person they're 'highlighting'.
I do, however, think it has more redeeming qualities than most kids literature and I'm happy to see my boys devouring a book every day or so.
Not only are our heroes struggling to find pennies to fund their hunt around the globe, they are also outclassed by all the other richer rivals who are also ruthless and not above attempting murder.
Orphaned and yet not "claimed" by the matriarch of the family in the financial sense for seven years, and on her death, sent on a hunt spanning the globe but without the means to fund it.
Example, who agrees for poor Amy to be conned by the slimeball Ian?
I gotta wade through a lot more before Riordan comes back (Book 11)
The 39 Clues: The Sword Thief  is book #3 in the first series of The 39 Clues.Genre: MysteryI'd recommend this to: Anyone who enjoys reading Mystery/Adventure books.Rating: 4/5 StarsShort Summary: This book takes place in 2 different areas, Tokyo, Japan and Seoul, South Korea. It starts with Dan and Amy trying to board a plane at a Venice Airport. But Ian and Natalie Kabra steal their plane tickets and go on the plane pretending to be them. Amy and Dan are forced to team up with their uncle, Al
is book #3 in the first series of The 39 Clues.Genre: MysteryI'd recommend this to: Anyone who enjoys reading Mystery/Adventure books.Rating: 4/5 StarsShort Summary: This book takes place in 2 different areas, Tokyo, Japan and Seoul, South Korea.
Amy and Dan are forced to team up with their uncle, Alistair Oh. They then fly with him on his private plane to Tokyo, they then learn about Toyotomi Hideyoshi (the greatest warrior in the history of Japan), Who is also the son of the first Tomas.
The author took comedy to a new level and I really enjoyed the interactions between the characters.
More time was spent developing the other characters particularly Alistair.
I enjoyed learning tidbits about Japanese and Korean history though I would've liked (view spoiler)[for the kids to travel to Japan but they didn't need to make that trip which was a shame!
(hide spoiler)] Surprisingly in this book, we get an idea of what the 39 clues lead to.
This book was action and comedy packed and I hope the books continue to be this way!
This book was really exciting and interesting.
It is about two children Amy and Dan Cahill.
They are racing to find the 39 clues before all of their other relatives.
They make an alliance with their Uncle Alistar who had abandoned them in the beginning.
After all this time,they act nice and trustworthy but when they find the next clue, they leave them stranded to die.
Uncle Alistar "dies" and abandons them again.
Amy Cahill is shy and likes to be independant.What will happen next?
read book #5 to find out!
well, might as well say that, I LOVE THIS SERIES!!!!!
:DI finished it in less than a day!
:D I LOVE IT!!!!!!This book has it all.
:D I LOVE IT!!!!!!This book has it all.
Romance, Comedy, Action, Adventure, etc.!
It's really great!
ESPECIALLY THE ROMANCE PART!!!!
_____ IS SO COOL!!!
:D ______ fell for it but who knows, it might be not a joke after all!!!
:D LOL.AND UNCLE ALISTAIR!
LOL.
A TOTAL TWIST!
AND THE MAN IN BLACK!!!
IT's ACTUALLY....
LOL.OKAY.
so I'm going crazy here.
Better finish this review!
:)SAYONARA!
So far he has enjoyed the book's humor (the bus farted, what the --), but we will see.As for me, I picked it up just to see what kind of books he has been reading lately (aka, to understand and be able to suggest books to read together).
Being the middle of the series, I didn't understand the appeal and I've always enjoyed books that wrap up their adventures in a single book, which is something this series wouldn't be able to do given that each book is on a single clue.
