https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18521.A_Room_of_One_s_Own
Woolf states that all modern women should acknowledge their ancestors who fought for five minutes and a few pieces of paper to jot down lines of Jane Eyre, Middlemarch, or Pride and Prejudice.
She makes sure that women know that they can reject the framework and the form down to the very sentences that are given to them by men to find their own voice.
I would have needed it when I was 18, and 25, and last year and yesterday!The opening sentence caught me, right away:"But, you may say, we asked you to speak about women and fiction - what has that got to do with a room of one's own?"I don't even need to read Virginia Woolf's justification before I exclaim:"EVERYTHING, it has EVERYTHING to do with a room of one's own!"Whoever loves art, literature, and the act of writing, drawing or reading knows how hard it is to keep the deep concentration necessary to achieve something of relative creative value.
And this is as it ought to be.Some of Woolf’s writing – I’ve also just finish reading To the Lighthouse – feels heavy now, some of her paragraphs go for three pages and that can make reading her feel a bit of a struggle – but she writes so beautifully and has the annoying habit of making sense that it is no wonder that so many people have become so annoyed with her.In the end I think it is only possible for people to say this is a fierce book or a polemic on the basis of their views, not Virginia’s.
Writing ten years after these developments, Woolf points out that despite enjoying these gains in society, women still have a long way to go until they are to be considered on equal literary footing as men.Well versed in literary history, Woolf cites many examples in European literature to point out the path women have taken to get where they are in the early 20th century.
Woolf notes that in the 16th century long before the women's revolution, intelligent women would not have been encouraged in reading or writing in any shape or form.
Because it does not only talk about women writers but life itself and the art of writing.The blurb and the countless reviews famously identify this book as one of the greatest feminist polemics of the last century.
Sure, she gives us the feminist side of things - but her voice is not full of seething rage or resentment but balanced, logical, sardonic and even humorous at times.This is Woolf's homage to the spirit of those unsung heroines of the distant past who may have written poems, songs and ballads but were forced to adopt anonymity simply because it was unacceptable for a woman to write.
“Lock up your libraries if you like; but there is no gate, no lock, no bolt that you can set upon the freedom of my mind.”   This is a highly charged feminist essay loaded with powerful rhetoric and words that demand to be heard. Virginia Woolf doesn’t ask for a lot really. She just wants a room of one’s own. Sounds simple enough but this room has far reaching implications. The room is space, space to grow, learn and write. Creativity is the key. Far too often women didn’t get the opportunity
This is a highly charged feminist essay loaded with powerful rhetoric and words that demand to be heard.
“A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction.” Woolf recognises her own advantages, the key being a fine education allowing her to become successful and financially independent.
Sure, you could make the case that there had been many fine female writers of fiction before Woolf.
The Brontes, Austen, Eliot and Gaskell stand out as the most prominent novelists, but the point is not every women is afforded the opportunities that allow her to become a writer.
The essay is generally seen as a feminist text and is noted in its argument for both a literal and figurative space for women writers within a literary tradition dominated by men.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم ماه مارس سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: اتاقی از آن خود؛ نویسنده: ویرجینیا وولف؛ مترجم: صفورا نوربخش؛ ویراستار: مژده دقیقی؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1383، در 160 ص؛ شابک چاپ چهارم در سال 1388: 9789644482144؛ موضوع: نقد تاریخی زنان هنرمند از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مبا ترجمه: معصومه مهرشادی؛ تهران، روزگارنو، 1391، در 176 ص، شابک: 9786006867335؛مجموعه مقالات و سخنرانیهای وولف درباره نویسندگی زنان؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم مارس سال 2004 میلادیاین کتاب در کلاس‌های آیین نگارش پایه‌ های تحصیلی دانشگاهی تدریس می‌شود؛ دفتر خاطرات نویسنده نشان می‌دهد که قصد داشته نوشتن امواج را آغاز کند، اما فکر اتاقی از آن خود رهایش نمی‌کند، و بر آن می‌شود که آن را با سبکی نو، «نیمی محاوره و نیمی گفتگوی درونی» بازنویسی کند.
A World Of Her Own “Here then I was (call me Mary Beton, Mary Seton, Mary Carmichael or by any name you please – it is not a matter of importance) sitting on the banks of a river a week or two ago in fine October weather, lost in thought.”And they all do appear, as fictional novelists. Avatars of the Gauri.Of course, I didn’t know they were so, and I didn't want to find out. I knew Woolf was perfectly capable of inventing novelists and novels inside this small thought-world she was spinning.Wha
And, as we have seen, each group is denied literature and art to the extent that it is denied material comforts and leisure.Thus we can extend Woolf’s speculative pathos and be sad about how many varieties of literary perspectives are lost to us even today due to such exclusion…As I said, in Woolf’s analysis it is the women who are the victim to this unfair exclusion.
That does not, of course, make Woolf’s essay outdated, since it is only a way of looking at literature — both in its conditions for creation as well as consumption.In fact, I would now like not only extend Woolf’s propositions, but invert them a bit — to propose that we can even apply the conditions of material repression to the men of today.
I believe that Virginia is looked at by some as a feminist that hates men and that is simply not true.
She just wants a woman to be able to have the ability to live life to her fullest potential.
I am grateful for a woman like Virginia, for bringing these issues to life and pushing women to be their very best.
I agree with her statements that women need certain things to be able to write and follow their dreams.
This book displays how wonderful a writer Virginia was, and also displays her passion that women follow their dreams no matter what the cost.
Hace unos meses un amigo me recomendó este libro, y ahora me arrepiento de no haberlo leído antes. Sin lugar a dudas es una pequeña joya revestida de ensayo, que te arrastra con su lenta caricia hacia el pasado, cuando la mujer vivía a la sombra del hombre. Un magnífico ensayo sobre la mujer y la escritura...
May be if ‘i’ were androgynous, had five hundred a year and a good lock on my own room, ‘i’ would be able to write a truly fabulous review of this already well reviewed book. It would require imagining the room of reviews completely empty and with no tradition for me to draw upon.Or may be not, even with all those conditions present, 'i' still would not be able to.
The only thing better than reading Virginia Woolf is having her work performed by Juliet Stevenson.I listened to this on audio, performed by the talented Juliet, and I was so impressed that I essentially listened to the book twice.
This problem is only "new" in the sense that at least women have the opportunity to be educated -- it used to be they weren't even taught how to read and write.One of my favorite stories in this book is about Shakespeare's sister.
As Woolf imagines it, the sister is believed to have been as talented as William, but she has no opportunities for education or expression.
Los capítulos 3 y 4 fueron mis preferidos sin dudas, y sin más que decir adjunto abajo algunas de las frases que más me impactaron: ”Posiblemente cuando el profesor insistía con demasiado énfasis sobre la inferioridad de las mujeres, no era la inferioridad de éstas lo que le preocupaba, sino su propia superioridad.
Es necio condenarlas o burlase de ellas cuando tratan de hacer algo más o aprender más cosas de las que la costumbre ha declarado necesarias para su sexo.”“Ay, a la mujer que prueba la pluma se la considera una criatura tan presuntuosa que ninguna virtud puede redimir su falta.
I get my self a cup of black fresh coffee and make Woolf my companion on this wait.To my surprise, instead of finding an endless waititing time full of anxiety and a repetitive practice on my head of the speech and words I've prepared to say, I get lost and travel back in time to find a friend in Virginia Woolf who lifted my spirits and encouraged me through the powerful and beautiful use of words in her book.On this reading, the author defends that a woman in order to be able to sit down and write, “A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction", she requires her space and a stable economic status, free of distractors and stressful situations in order to accomplish that goal.
"A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction.” exposes Woolf and her multiple fictional narrators,  Mary Beton, Mary Seton and Mary Carmichael, embodying the universal voices of female writers that once were and the ones that never came to be, while relentlessly beguiling the reader, sinuously spiralling him down with evocative prose, genial dexterity with words and an unapologetic tone dripping with irony, righteousness and lyricism.
I enjoyed reading about the history of women writers including one of my favourites, George Eliot, and how they have been suppressed systematically by patriarchy.
The book also talks about how literature as an art wasn't exactly encouraged back in the day, both for men and for women.
Overall Woolf makes a lot of great points and it's obvious she sees literature as being of utmost importance in the world.I enjoyed her wit and also her knowledge about literature in general.
اینکه زنها حق خودشان را داشته باشند و همان اندازه از دنیا بهرهمند شوند که مردها، و بتوانند بین زندگی راکد و علایقشان، حق انتخاب داشته باشند هیچ ربطی به فمینیسم ندارد. چرا کیفیت زندگی یک زن باید کمتر از یک مرد باشد؟ عجیب نیست که با گذشت سالها از زمانی که ویرجینیا وولف این کتاب را نوشته (۱۹۲۸م) هنوز مردهایی هستند که به زنها میگویند: شما بهتر است بروید سبزیتان را پاک کنید و در این موضوعات دخالت نکنید! در توئیتر، مردهایی هستند که با تغییر خلقیات زنها در دوران قاعدگیشان جوک میسازند. هنوز خانوادههایی
چرا کیفیت زندگی یک زن باید کم‌تر از یک مرد باشد؟ عجیب نیست که با گذشت سال‌ها از زمانی که ویرجینیا وولف این کتاب را نوشته (۱۹۲۸م) هنوز مردهایی هستند که به زن‌ها می‌گویند: شما بهتر است بروید سبزی‌تان را پاک کنید و در این موضوعات دخالت نکنید!
باید بگویم این زن‌های هیچ‌کاره و منفعل از مردهای قرون وسطی هم بیش‌تر در حق زن‌ها ظلم می‌کنند.
همسرش شاعر بود و به من می‌گفت که مردها عادت‌های عجیبی دارند، مردهای شاعر نیاز دارند که آرامش داشته باشند و ما زن‌ها باید کمک کنیم آرامش‌شان بهم نخورد.
Brilliant. Powerful.“How are we fallen! Fallen by mistaken rules,And Education’s more than Natures’s fools;Debarred from all improvements of the mind,And to be dull, expected and designed;And if someone would soar above the rest,With warmer fancy, and ambition pressed,So strong the opposing faction still appears,The hopes to thrive can ne’er outweigh the fears.”- Lady Winchilsea, born in 1661Quoted by Virginia Woolf5 out of 5 stars
Her ideas are still solid to the present day and her writing style is wonderful.I think what I enjoyed most from A Room of One's Own was Woolf's logic and the examples she gave to prove her points.
The fact that literature and all the arts were a man's domain for so long just because the expectations of women(marriage and child bearing) excluded them from having a place to work - a room of their own.
A short, educated, informative and very well written book, written a long time ago when values were different yet it still has great relevance today.
I would recommend to all who have an interest in feminism, creativity or woman in fiction.This is an extended essay taken from various lectures that Woolf gave during 1928.
These are just a couple of examples of the thought-provoking and interesting way Woolf gets her point across.Overall Woolf shows how the creativity of a woman can flourish if she is just given the figurative and literal 'room of one's own'.
I thought it was great look into the ideas of the time and definitely shines a light on the way things are in our culture now.
A great read that I would recommend to all!
Obviously, it's also about the ability of women to write about female (and male) characters from the different perspective that they bring to the study:"Lies will flow from my lips, but there may perhaps be some truth mixed up with them..."Women and FictionWoolf offers her audience an amalgam of both fiction and non-fiction, just as she invites them to become writers of whatever subject matter:"If you would please me — and there are thousands like me — you would write books of travel and adventure, and research and scholarship, and history and biography, and criticism and philosophy and science."Ostensibly, the title of her talk was "Women and Fiction".Her one piece of advice on that topic was:"...a woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction..."How much money did a writer need?
She sits by the window, her gaze fixed at the thin streak, waiting unconsciously for it to reach the ubiquitous vast blackness of the sky.
On the table, in her front, the pages of the open book ruffle whenever a whiff of air passes through the window into her room.
This surge of thoughts, even from the disquiet, accompanies a tranquility which appears only occasionally.
So, yes, while she does have an actual room of her own, the thoughts in her mind are not necessarily her own.
Un discurso feminista impresionante de una de las mayores referentes de la literatura inglesa. Woolf nos habla de cómo las mujeres necesitan independencia económica para poder escribir y que no podrán tenerla en un mundo patriarcal.Muy bueno y muy enriquecedor.Me encantaron las alusiones a tantxs escritorxs de la literatura inglesa.
Perhaps there will be an insiders view on writers and writing - and indeed, our Ginny does share her opinions from custard and prunes not being, in her opinion, fit stuff to nourish the creative brain (view spoiler)[ since I am partial to prunes I guess that explains why I am not a novelist  (hide spoiler)] to the existence in English literature of the perfect 'male' and 'female' sentence, but slowly what one secretly hopes for is the sudden sharp insight into the writer's own mind and the writer's perception of what is important and necessary to their own creative process.Here Woolf's prescription which she sticks at the head of her work is: Five hundred pounds a year of independent income and a room of ones own with a lock on the door - this so that Vita Sackville-West can't burst in and drag you off to the Chelsea Flower Show or Kew Gardens or some thing I guess.
An interesting view from one of the twentieth centuries great writers.
Woolf who never shied away from doing things differently again pushes the limits for her time.
Woolf who was lucky enough to have a room of her own and a source of income looks at the past and her present and offers some thoughts.
She mentions a lesbian couple and follows up with a don't be surprised or embarrassed: its ok these things do happen.
Interesting look at how things change over time and how little things change over time.
صدایی که پس از دههها از پس ویرانههای جنگ جهانی دوم از ویرجینیا ولف در این کتاب به گوش میرسد، برای زمانه ما بیش از اندازه تاریخی و کهنه شده است.
ولف، اتاقی شخصی و درآمدی سالیانه را شالودهای برای تحقق امکان برابری زن و مرد دانسته است.
گذر زمان نشان داده است که آگاهی و آزادی اندیشه را نمیتوان به بهای نازل سالانه پانصد دلار و اتاقی از آن خود بدست آورد.
پس از قریب به صد سال، جامعه زورسالار، اتاقی از آن خود را نه فقط برای زنان آگاه و نخبه، بلکه برای خیل بزرگی از مردان، به زندان انفرادی و مدفن اندیشهها
صدایی که پس از دهه‌ها از پس ویرانه‌های جنگ جهانی دوم از ویرجینیا ولف در این کتاب به گوش می‌رسد،‌ برای زمانه ما بیش از اندازه تاریخی و کهنه شده است.
زیبایی کار نیچه در آن است که او از ایده بازگشت به میان مردم سخن می‌گوید.
نکته قابل تامل آنجاست که ولف این کلمات را نه در اتاق شخصی خود بلکه به صورت سخنرانی در میان زنان به رشته تحریر درآورده است.
ولف از امکانات و شرایط و پتانسیل‌هایی سخن گفته که جامعه زورسالار مدرن، سالهاست خود را به آن واکسینه کرده است.
The book or rather the essay contains Ms. Woolf's famous quote "a woman must have money and room of her own if she is to write fiction".
I have no more words to say except to express my heartfelt gratitude to Ms. Woolf for this brilliant and genius piece of work which would certainly and subtly change me both as a woman and a writer.Even more amazed the second time around.
There is so much one can learn about fiction, writing, authors and about life, men and women in general.
But this is a toxic book.Be very clear what Woolf means: to be a writer, one needs to be isolated from life.
Yes, you can finally write because you don't have to cook dinner.
But someone else is doing so, and Woolf is quite, quite clear that feminism means liberation for some women.
Woolf lost me for good with her astounding disdain for the plight of anyone outside her narrow demographic.
And if Woolf could only write literature with an army of servants to abuse at her every whim, then I'm frankly certain I have nothing of value to learn from her.
Lamento haber tardado tanto en leer un libro que atrapa desde el principio. Tener que soltarlo era un poquito doloroso, aunque hay una ventaja: no se termina tan rápido.  Una habitación propia  (o  A Room of Ones Own)  es un ensayo que problematiza la autoría femenina desde algunos elementos que Woolf decide tomar para hablar de ello. En este caso, se dedica a la falta de un espacio en donde la mujer pueda escribir tranquila. Sin embargo, a medida que uno avanza la lectura se encuentra con otras
Porque uno entiende que las comparaciones y las humillaciones son odiosas y porque ni siquiera hay que ser mujer para comprender que, efectivamente, la libertad de pensamiento nunca fue igual para todos.
La historia inventada sobre la mujer que en la época de Shakespeare tenía el genio de Shakespeare (la que señalé en uno de mis status) se relaciona con esto y sobrevuela todo el ensayo.Se lo recomiendo a todos, sin distinción de género, porque es un texto precioso que trata un tema más precioso aún (esa fue una opinión totalmente mía).
And when, like me and you surely, one has a job, responsibilities towards children who depend on one, one unfortunately has little time to meditate quietly, in a place peaceful enough to encourage the daydream of mind.So, like Virginia, when comes to me the beginning of an idea for a novel or character, and that I have no time to note it, at night after my working day, desperate, I realize that the idea has escaped, and this makes me furious!Intellectual people and food:As a gourmand (or maybe as a French woman?), I was amused by Virginia's remark on the fact English novelists and writers, when they remember a meal, don’t mention what they ate, but only what they thought and said.
