https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28371.Witch_Grass
Certain people who think a lot about these things and then have their thoughts published point to the years 1938-39 as the beginning of postmodernism in literature.
Let’s say it’s about how people see, or how when they go about trying to see things they see everything incorrectly.
Or let’s say it’s about how people don’t exist until they think, but then when they begin to exist, because of the thinking, they realize that thinking too much negates existence, or twists existence into absurdity.
Let’s say it’s a book about how we don’t know the people we interact with everyday.
He suddenly had a vision of a civilization of down-at-the-heel shoes, a culture of worn-away soles, a symphony of suede and box calf, in the process of being reduced to the remarkably minimal thickness of the paper tablecloths in restaurants for the hard up.”And if one keeps watching long enough then one would surely see the entire life in all its quotidian absurdity.
And then one would understand that all the human quotidian pursuits are pitiful and ridiculous.“Old Taupe had his own idea of happiness; he had acquired it in poverty; he had elaborated it in penury.
This isn’t some magazine for curious botanists, oh no.
It’s Queneau’s debut showcase novel, a bright blazing epic of comedic splendour, and a love letter to Paris and its pond life.At the present moment I feel a little languorous, so further observations or reductive summaries will have to hang fire until the liveliness of spirit is once again reinstated in my brain.
In the meantime, here is a general piece of advice: don’t read Eggers.
Don’t read Coupland.
Don’t read Amis.
Don’t read Palahniuk.
Read Queneau instead.
Read Queneau instead.
Read Queneau instead.
Read Queneau instead.
Don’t read Coetzee.
Read Queneau instead.Let’s face it, we waste too much time not reading Queneau.
That is till the whole damn thing just grew so tiresome to read, I usually love books like this that go behind plot, that aren’t for most casual readers, that are stylized, but this one I failed it didn’t fail me, no it didn’t , I just want to eat some french fries.
The silhouette of a man appeared in profile; so, simultaneously, did thousands. There really were thousands. He had just opened his eyes, and the teeming streets were seething; seething, too, were the men who worked all day. This particular silhouette emerged from the wall of an enormous, unbearable building, an edifice which looked as if it were designed for suffocation, and which was a bank. The silhouette, detached from the wall now, oscillated, jostled by other shapes, not visibly behaving
The silhouette, detached from the wall now, oscillated, jostled by other shapes, not visibly behaving as an individual, pushed and pulled in various directions, less by its own anxieties than by the sum of the anxieties of the thousands of people surrounding it.
It kind of reads like an existentialist (think the fiction of Sartre and Camus) novel written by Ilf and Petrov - but 5 years before Nausea, 7 years before The Stranger, and years and years before Ilf and Petrov would be translated from Russian.
(p.s. It took forever to copy and combine the images of the duck and the top hat and to draw in the water.
Totally worth it, though.)(p.p.s. While reading, I couldn't help thinking that this would make a perfect Guy Ritchie movie--in the same vein as Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels or Snatch.
The more farcical it got, though, the more I thought it would make a perfect Wes Anderson movie--in the same vein as The Royal Tenenbaums or Moonrise Kingdom.
I just reread this as part of my Oulipian bender (thank YOU, Daniel Levin Becker), and I loved it even more than I did the first time. I think that's maybe because I'm a better reader now than I was a decade ago, which, to be honest, sort of makes me feel like a bad-ass (I'm progressing in life and learning!), but also makes me want to reread EVERYTHING.

Pardon my lazy writing but Witch Grass has sort of unraveled my clarity at the moment and I feel labored in writing a review of a book that doesn't lend itself to easy comprehension.
This is a bit of a boozy read that sort of works like Krudy at times with its descriptions of man as defined by what he drinks.
And there’s no doubt that if you're interested in how people like Proust, Kosztolanyi and Stendhal examine and negotiate characters and their interactions - you'll find something to love about Witch Grass.
It starts with the evening rush hour, the usual stream of people heading from banks and offices to the train; among them is an observer, a person who doesn't work, but who sits at a café at this time of the day, to watch.
And I like the style of Queneau's writing, the unexpected images and turns of phrase, like the moment when, right at the start of the book, the observer opens his eyes "just as the silhouette was being pocketed by the metro, and disappearing" (5).
Literature's a funny thing, we've tried since the beginning to establish concrete standards for greatness, or even just for what's good and what's not; but there's no getting around the fact that people read books and people change and so our experiences of books always change.
A reading of a book today can vary considerably from a reading of the same book ten years ago, regardless of objective standards.
At the time I would've given it 5 stars, but I tried reading it again over the weekend and it just kind of annoyed me, my mind kept drifting from the text, I couldn't keep the characters straight, and it all just seemed too padded with unnecessary stuff.I'm sure the book's still good.
This surrealist novel is the first by Raymond Queneau, and the first of his I have read (working my way towards Zazie in the Metro which I am told I will especially like).
In Witch Grass a man sitting in a cafe in Paris sees another man and wonders who he is and what his life is like.
Immediately the other man comes to life and the reader is taken through this bizarre sequence of events which is often compared to Lewis Carroll in style.
I have not been turned off by Queneau, but the idea that possibly he is not an author for me is there.
Perhaps Pynchon did not read this book but I'd be surprised. Queneau gets into postmodernist mode in the final 2 chapters and it's worth the read. Up to that point, his portrayal of identity and perception is also worthwhile. The plot unravels a bit at the end but he makes it appear that it was supposed to do that. Shame that more postmodernists don't have that skill.
On top of all that, he was the co-founder and president of the Oulipo (ouvroir de littérature potentiell); roughly translated as the “workshop of potential literature”.The Oulipo, if you aren’t familiar with them, were — and still are — a group of mostly French, avant-garde, post-modern writers and poets who’s raison d’être was to apply formal, often mathematical constraints to their writing in the hopes that it would unlock or maximise their creative potential.To most readers and writers of literary fiction that’d probably sound counter-productive.
Kto mieszkał kiedyś w malutkich miasteczkach albo bywa na wsi, kojarzy być może duszną atmosferę, w której ludzie podsłuchują to, co nie przeznaczone dla nich, słyszą z tego tylko połowę, rozumieją jeszcze mniej i dopowiadają sobie całą resztę.
A tam, wśród zbyt ciekawskich oczu i zbyt chłonnych uszu, okładkowe zapowiedzi zaczynają się spełniać.Przetłumaczona po raz pierwszy na język polski powieść może się wydawać surrealistyczna i przypadkowa, jednak tylko wtedy, kiedy czytelnik nie wie nic o OuLiPo, o pisarskim credo Autora, słowem – kiedy nie ma pojęcia, co tak naprawdę czyta.
Zresztą, o „Psiej trawce” można pisać tak, jak pisze się czasem o arcydziele Flauberta.
Czy dzieje się tak w przypadku nowego Queneau?
(but without the dour hopelessness that sometimes pervades those works) or something else altogether?
It's a funny, unique book.
At times it rings of satire, but Queneau pays far more attention to crafting a thorough and believable physical setting for his book than most satirists would.
There are descriptive passages and flights of character interiority that will knock you on your ass, and you can at times see a presaging of American dirty realism in Queneau's commitment to cataloguing ordinary people forced into uncomfortable situations.This must have been a nightmare to translate, but Barbara Wright has done an admirable job capturing Queneau's outlandish puns and wordplay.
I'm looking forward to reading more of Queneau's work.

Pre-dating Perec, but very influential in the modern French novel is Queaneau. 'Witch Grass' is a good starting point to his writings. Full of humour, constructed around around a number of intersecting misunderstandings, this is definitely a non-conventional novel, accessible, and difficult to describe.
This was terrific: a book that could only be a book, despite some really cinematic elements. It playfully razzed me for my tendency to identify the voyeur with the artist and the ending blew my mind. Q. apparently wrote a huge book on literary madmen that hasn't been published in English : there's one for the "to-read" shelf.
I shall never forget thee, Bebe Toutout.
Le Chiendent, or Witch Grass is an extremely difficult book to read in translation.
Even in the first chapter I was wishing for the French version as well to try and figure out if certain things were meant to be puns in the original French, and whether other things were persistent typos or deliberate misspellings.
I give the translator a lot of credit for her effort!
But it’s hard to communicate the colloquialisms in the original and try to make it clearly understood in another language.
All the same, I’m very interested in the book (completely wacky!) and I’d like to read the original version.

I really enjoyed Zazie in the Metro and what Mr. Queneau does with language. He's so playful and funny, but this particular story left something to be desired. A young bartender is coaxed into marrying an elderly packrat, who owns a junk store, because her mother believes he has a secret fortune. There are some other side stories involving young men and estranged relationships with their families. Overall, the narrative wasn't very cohesive and I found myself being drawn out. I still would like to read some other Queneau books...I just think this one is negligible.
This is a difficult one to sum up. The novel isn't a part of any one genre, but shifts registers in interesting ways. Veers from philosophy to brothels to weddings to Duck Soup in a light way. While reading it, I assumed it was written in the '50s and was surprised to see that it was actually 1933. Definitely a pre-cursor to post WWII French fiction and something I recommend. Give the book at least 50 pages, since the beginning is a little hard to get into straightaway.
wow. never read anything quite like this. i'm definitely going to pick up more of his works. the translator is a genius. or else she rewrote the entire book:"Q. What's the difference between an asthmatic pork-butcher and a party given by intellectuals?A. One's all chine and wheeze and the other's all wine and cheese."huh?
4.36 starsWhat a curious book. Swirling currents of tragicomedy and word play. About the accidents, incidents, and misconceptions that send us careening suddenly at odd angles and onto different trajectories. I'm not sure it quite got to where it's going, or if it just wanted to make a mess of things.
I bought this first based only Evan Dara's name-drop in "The Lost Scrapbook." Still havent read it, but I *have* read "Zazie in the Metro". I was enjoyed that until the bizarre ending...maybe someday I'll give Witchgrass a shot.
C'était long et laborieux. Il a écrit ce livre pour lui, pas pour les lecteurs. Après ya plein de passages où tu sens qu'il s'est éclaté quand il a écrit ça mais ça en fait pas un bon bouquin, hein. Ni un mauvais d'ailleurs. Ca donne envie de lire d'autres textes de lui mais pas 400 pages quoi
I give this one four stars.
Frytki.
