https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18455.The_Spy_Who_Loved_Me
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: James Bond, deus ex machina, incongruously stumbles, à la television crossovers, into a coming-of-age romance novel.
She has two real lovers, both of who are extreme assholes - one guy who sees her on the side, never ever telling her he's engaged to another woman, and taking her on dates every Saturday while slowly going further and further with her until he talks her into "giving her virginity" to him - which he doesn't even bother to do on a bed, instead he takes her on the floor of a movie theater, and of course they are caught, and she is shamed and humiliated and called "whore" by the people in the theater.
Also, when reviewing that hot mess that is From Russia With Love, I did mention that it would have been helpful if Fleming had provided a bit more insight into the internal monologue of the books female lead.
Let's recap: Viv had just undergone severe beatings, rape and death threats, and the one thing on Bond's mind is to have sex with her.The idiotic thing - well, another one, is that Viv, who previously had resolved to escape from abusive relationships, feels she had to go along with Bond's request.But I knew in my heart that I had to.
This is a story unlike any other in Ian Fleming’s series of James Bond novels – a first person narrative told from the perspective of a young woman who is rescued by Bond.Akin to the short story “Quantum of Solace” this is not really a Bond story in that it is instead an examination of the Bond myth peripherally, told by a witness to his acts.
007 happens along and in sterling Bond fashion does what he does best.Fleming was perhaps stretching his narrative muscles and demonstrating that he was not just a one trick pony.
"Love of life is born of the awareness of death, of the dread of it. Nothing makes one really grateful for life except the black wings of danger."― Ian Fleming, The Spy Who Loved MeReads more like a John D. MacDonald thriller than a typical James Bond novel. I liked it. It was like James Bond was tired of catching crap about not being able to write or develop female characters, so he wrote a novel entirely from the perspective of the woman. Unfortunately, at the end, it was STILL a woman in peril cliche. But a good read, still.
Rating: 3.75* of five1977's film, not 1962's book, is under discussion.
The film is not one single thing like the book.
This rewatch has been quite an education.I now know I will never be A Critic, as in publicly known to the civilians, in books, music, or film.
And, yodels from the film establishment aside, I thought this entry in the series was ~meh~ because the villain's a bore, the Bond Girl looks like an insect with a boob job, and it stars Simon Templar.
Every time I started my car, this tune came on.
The book which is told from a female point of view, the episode where Commander James Bond is not even mentioned until over halfway through, the one which doesn’t seem like a spy novel at all.
(My edition actually has her listed as the co-writer – as if she was a living, breathing person who told Fleming her story.) But for Fleming’s fantasies of womanhood to be asked to carry the whole narrative only serves to show how out of touch and lost in his boy’s own world the author was.‘The Spy who Loved Me’ isn’t merely an ‘odd’ book, it is the ill starred backstairs child of James Bond novels.
This is told from the perspective of a woman named Vivian, who manages to comment on Bond's "sweaty, naked chest" a couple of times while getting shot at.
On her last day on the job some mobsters show up and try to rape, beat, and kill her.
Very lucky for her ;)Bond saves the day and they have a night of passion, or "semi-rape" as Vivian calls it, and then he rides off into the sunrise.
It doesn't sound like a great idea to me but I haven't seen Bond's sweaty, naked chest.
A terrible, terrible something else.The Spy Who Loved Me differs from all of the other Bond books, in that it's written in the first person, from the perspective of Vivienne Michel, a vivacious young lady who finds herself alone, looking after a motor lodge in north-eastern America.The book falls into three sections...
Soon, she finds herself confronted with two hired goons who plan to have some entertainment with the young lady before torching the place.So begins act two - another rather nasty series of chapters featuring said goons terrorising young Ms Michel.
The book has nothing in common with the film, other than Bond being in it...
Usually, what happens is, Bond meet women, fucks them and leave them emotionally scarred, a mess.
Here, in this instance, a woman meets Bond, he fucks her and leaves her emotionally scarred, a mess.
Groundbreaking stuff like that.
Not yet, not there.What I did like was how at the end of the novel, the State Troopers told our heroine how Bond actually is a bad guy, and rightfully so, he behaves like one too, so they reckoned he might be able to protect her.
Sansa is absolutely right; No one can protect anyone.I also liked that this book was my first encounter with the ugly Bond.
Books' Bond was never supposed to be handsome.
Second, we don’t see the story unfold from Bond’s eyes but rather from Vivienne “Viv” Michel, a young Canadian lady trying to escape from her unlucky-at-love past and fleeing to small-town America.
Give me some double-0 action!The second part of the novel, “Them” continues Viv’s story as she finds herself in a small rural motel confronted with the two baddies of the novel, Sol Horror, and Sluggsy Morant, (yes, those are their names) who have nefarious plans for the property.
Viv is a looker so the two thugs decide to add assault and rape to their plans.It is not until part three of the novel, “Him” where Bond finally makes his entrance and rescues the damsel in distress.
Fortunately, it is well worth the wait, and his entrance at that point is as dramatic as can possibly be."TSWLM" takes the form of a manuscript that Fleming tells us was sent to him by a 23-year-old French Canadian woman named Vivienne Michel, and one that allows us to see Bond "through the wrong end of the telescope." Vivienne's manuscript is cleverly divided into three sections.
Vivienne, as it turns out, is just as great a writer as Ian Fleming himself (ha ha!), and just as likely to use a plenitude of detail and product names while telling her tale.
Not too impressed with this one...too much soap opera for me I suppose. But even after all the blood shed, violence and warnings that "men" involved in this sort of life no matter which side are still dangerous...Viv is still in love with Bond.Should I sigh here?
Craptacular.
There's a lot of description in this one.When Bond does appear in the story (to, you know, save the day and stuff), we see Bond through this Viv's eyes.
God.The whole book is much of that because Fleming didn't know how to write women, he was certainly a product of his times, and I'm pretty sure he was just obsessed with the Bond character, maybe even wanted to be Bond.In any case, this book (for all its flaws) truly is interesting, especially compared beside the other Bond books I've read so far.
I find myself in the interesting position of feeling like I should issue an apologia for having read this before I actually discuss my reactions to this horrifying little book.
I have no way of accounting for how else he could have written a character like Viv. I'm terrified to think that the attitudes and behaviors of men in this book could ever have been considered even in the ballpark of normal.
Not one guy who didn't pinch, grab, insinuate, sleeze, threaten, bully, pressure, "semi-rape" (sorry, still can't believe I'm writing that like it's a real thing), or otherwise terrorize Viv during the story.
Fleming writes an incredibly short yet excruciatingly insightful Bond book from the point of a view from a growing woman with various heritages and identity issues.
In addition to a first hand account of a Bond story from a non-Bond character, we have a deeply perspicacious look into trying to be an independent woman in Britain, the United States, and Canada.
This trip is supposed to cement herself as a fiercely independent and strong woman, until it all goes awry with the horribly perpetrated crime of insurance fraud !
Luckily, our man Bond is there to save the night, her life, and insurance through a cerebral game against the thugs and his usual heroics.
Yet it is well worth the read for any Bond fan.In a short prologue (missing from many editions, including the one pictured here) Fleming claims the manuscript was found on his desk and credits the heroine, Vivienne Michel, as the true author.
I was interested in this view of James Bond, through the wrong end of the telescope so to speak, and after obtaining clearance for certain minor infringements of the Official Secrets Act I have much pleasure in sponsoring its publication.Ian Fleming, The Spy Who Loved Me, Prologue"It is the only one of his Bond novels written in the first person, albeit not by Bond but by the heroine of the piece, a French Canadian girl working in an out of the way motel near Lake George, NY.
I'm glad that I decided to go back and read this one, which I had previously skipped. Although Bond has an important role, this entry in the Bond series (#10) is quite different in style and content from the others. A first-person narrative of a girl just reaching adulthood in the early 1960s into whose life gangsters & violence (and eventually James Bond) suddenly erupt.
That's an awful lot of elaboration to justify a road trip, and once things get into the "spy novel" aspect of the book (very little actual spying happens, really) all that background has no actual affect on the plot other than to serve as the occasional reference to how much better a man Bond is than any other man the protagonist has encountered.When Bond does finally show up, it's a pretty much random encounter.
He just happens to appear at the motel where our lady narrator has taken up a little part time work on her way south.
Disappointed, seeing as the movie is one of my favorites in the entire series. This book and the movie share a title and nothing else. told in first person by a girl named Vivian. Ian Fleming probably shouldn't write as a woman, seeing as he has obvious contempt for them. A failed experiment at best.
Written from the girl's perspective,this was a pretty good addition to the series. The story itself was pretty tame (the free world was not at stake, just an insurance scam involving an upstate NY motel), but the telling of it through the girl's eyes made the book more compelling.
It's written from a woman's perspective and told in the first person, from the main character's point of view.
Miraculously, 007 turns up and saves the day.This story simply, sadly, just reinforces Fleming's view of both the world and women.
Through very small comments, the Germans are still the enemy, can't be trusted, and the main character suffers at the hands of men, develops independence, only to fall into James Bond's arms and surrender to him.
Certain questionable lines, like the 'all women like semi-rape,' and the narrative about Viviene relaxing after her beating leave a disturbing insight into Ian Fleming's mind.
Now, ask yourself this: Why would anyone be interested in reading a novel from the point of view of a Bond girl -- and a one-night stand at that!
The book is 60% over before Bond appears -- in an isolated motel near Lake George in the Adirondacks where the girl, Viv Michel, is being threatened by two hoods.I like Ian Fleming's James Bond novels -- but not this one.
You can skip The Spy Who Loved Me. As far as I'm concerned, it was probably written by somebody else.
Probably Fleming's Chitty-Chitty Bang-Bang is more to the point than this title.
It took me a long time to track down this book: I couldn't get it through the library, and I eventually broke down and bought it (a bad idea in my tiny apartment).
Be warned, it does read like a noir/romance which happens to feature (but not star) James Bond.
One of my favorite things about going through and actually reading the Bond books, is that they are all different.
For that, and for the narrator's perspective on Bond, I love it, and have already read most of it twice.
The adventure is not a big deal for Bond, but huge for Viv, and that's the bittersweet point.
Considered as a 2.5-star James Bond fiction, “The Spy Who Loved Me” by Ian Fleming was a bit lengthy since its Part One and Part Two (9 chapters) have covered about ‘Me’ (6) and ‘Them’ (3). Then while reading the 9 chapters, I sometime couldn’t help wondering if our protagonist ‘Him’ (6) would help Viv (the lady narrated in ‘Me’) in such a critical time and it’s a relief to find his showing up and action on Page 100 onwards.
An odd one. Bond hardly appears in this novel at all, and it's the weaker for it. Fleming wrote Bond well. As his character he seemed to understand him. Other people not so much. Vivienne isn't James, and throughout the best part of the book you're waiting and hoping for Bond to arrive and start being Bond. Sadly, it's all a little too late.
I was advised to write this after having heard that Donna Tartt is the only female writer who has written a bestselling book with a male narrator. So I tried this - Macho Ian Fleming writing in a first person female narrator. Loved it...
So bad it actually makes the movie seem like Masterpiece Theatre.Favorite line: "These men were Dynamite from Nightmare-land." It takes a rare talent to write something that bad.
Entertaining!
