https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1232960.The_Greater_Trumps
Williams studied the works of A.C. Waite and his novel is apparently using the images created for the Rider Deck designed by Patricia Coleman-Smith under the direction of Waite.
Throughout, Williams links the desires, actions, decisions, and personalities of various characters to their equivalents in the 22 cards that form “The Greater Trumps”.
Nancy is deeply in love with the rather sinister Henry Lee who sees her primarily as a tool to learn to control the Greater Trumps and thus gain tremendous power.
She worships the creative Love which infuses the universe and has become a mystic aware of the world but untainted by it.Sybil is probably the triumph of the book.
Here is a summary and review of this novel on my Charles Williams website: https://theoddestinkling.wordpress.co....
In a typical novel, two young women meet on a London bridge - there are taxis around, buses, tugboats in the Thames, all is normal; they walk into the park, have a rather fraught conversation, but you imagine them well dressed and at least in CW's phrase semi-educated and semi-cultured, - and while you are trying to figure out the significance of the conversation, the narrator ends the chapter: "Then the two dead girls walked out of the Park." Or in this novel, after a Christmas eve storm, the meditations of a maiden aunt spilling into the Great Dance: - "hot drinks--yes; and a hot bath--yes; and a complete change [of clothes]--yes.
This and the following books by Charles Williams are not like any other books I have ever read. They bent my mind out of shape and sort of gave it a new shape, if that makes any sense.They are very well written and very good mystical stories with real meaning.
I really wanted to like this one, but it just doesn't work as a story. And, stylistically, it was a little too self-conscious. (I imagine Williams at his writing desk looking over his shoulder at the works of Virginia Woolf on the shelf.) As for his theology, a bit too fuzzy, a bit too romantic for my taste; and, regrettably, marked with that smug self-satisfaction typified in the theological writings of his fellow Inkling C.S. Lewis.
Summary: An legacy of a singular pack of tarot cards that correspond to images of the Greater Trumps arranged in a dance on a platform of gold in the retreat of a gypsy master drives his grandson to risk love and life to uncover the powers of the cards.Charles Williams is known as one of the members of the Inklings who wrote supernatural fantasy thrillers.
As it happens, his daughter Nancy is deeply in love with Henry Lee, a descendant of Gypsies, whose grandfather, Aaron is a master who has devoted his life to the studies of occult mysteries.
King Rare and Used Books in downtown Detroit (a remarkable place, I highly recommend it) for the express purpose of seeking out the novels of Charles Williams.
I recently read a stellar book about The Inklings, and it kindled for me an interest in Williams' work.
My Dad and I were able to find three of Williams seven novels, in three different sections of the store, amusingly; the three sections being general fiction, Christianity, and fantasy.
Amongst those who greatly admired Williams' novels were C.S. Lewis, T.S. Elliott, W.H. Auden, and Dorothy Sayers.
The "original" Tarot deck is rediscovered by a Gypsy family who are guardians of its companion set of magical figures.
CW's Romantic Theology heavily informs the plot.What I enjoyed most about this novel in comparison to the previous four, is that it is the least overtly Christian.
If not for a few passages on the Athanasian Creed and knowledge of his quirky theology, one could read this as "generically" supernatural fiction.
It is also interesting that the holy object is entirely occult in origin in contrast to the Graal and Stone (War in Heaven and Many Dimensions respectively) which are both rooted in Abrahamic faith.
Williams is the least known of the Inklings, the group of writers who met weekly in a pub in Oxford.
He was active in several esoteric groups for years before committing to Christianity and I find the influence those teachings as dominant as the Christian themes in his books.The Greater Trumps is about the Tarot and serves as a good introduction to it.
It's full of frightening scenes and the characters are well-drawn.I think all of Williams' novels are worth reading as curiosities, as introductions to esoteric ideas, or as very original understandings of Christian thought.They're pretty compelling as novels, too, but they're dated....less...more
I've each one at least four times, and I nurture the hope that if I keep reading them, eventually I will understand them.
His understanding of Tarot is as deep as that of Christianity.
In this book he merges the two, or rather reconciles what might appear to be contradictions and conflict between them.All his books tantalize this way with the feeling that there is something in the subtext or just on the edge of understanding, that if we could fathom, all would be revealed.Endlessly fascinating.
This was assigned reading in one of my college courses, presented, in the words of my professor, as a graphic example of how not to write a book. My professor was right. This is NOT how a book should be written. I resented the time I had to spend reading this dreck.
My favorite of CW fiction.
Once again I am stunned by Charles Williams's strange - but so very real - creations.
He writes about Real Things, the True Things that we cannot see with our human eyes, the unseen reality behind everything that is seen.
What is so strange - and attractive - in his stories is that everyday people are able to see what is behind the physical world, and that is when everything becomes wild and bewildering to me, the reader.This might not be my favorite of the 4 or so that I have read so far, but his description of the Tower of Babel is incredibly compelling - as is the image/idea of the innumerable & ever-moving hands.
His style is not one which would be called high literature, but it is also not like cheap pulp novels either.
He creates a fascinating selection of characters which places them in a rather difficult supernatural event to deal with; the characters, as in this book, have mixed motives (love, pursuit of power, hate, pride) which have to be worked out before the end.
Here, the story deals with the "original" Tarot Deck, the power which it has over nature and the world, and what some people would do in order to try to gain possession of it.
I think I enjoyed this book the least of Williams's novels I've read so far. The supernatural aspect was ok (Tarot cards). But most of the action took place in one locale, and that didn't really succeed. The characters were mostly unlikable, which is not my preference. I found myself skimming to the end for plot because I stopped caring about the esoteric descriptions.I really liked the character of Sibyl and what Williams did with her, but it wasn't enough to redeem the rest of the book.Worth reading for Williams devotees, or if you want to be a completist.
Somewhat strange, slowish plot. One really cool character makes this a 3-star instead of a 2.
Fascinating. Reminded me more of T. S. Eliot than anybody else. Definitely the kind of book that will stand up to (in fact needs) re-reading.
ExcellentGreat read. Very mysterious and the writing creates a unique mood. Williams is a master craftsman. It's hard to believe thiswas written so long ago,
Very fine. The wonder and power of simple, unaffected love. The earlier of Williams' works are celestial conflict revolving around antagonist, protagonist, and and one solitary human being in the middle with extraordinary choices forced upon her. The Greater Trumps contains all that, but the resolution is of a different sort but, to me, quite satisfying. The entire book is, as expected, surreal.
I wanted to like this so much more than I did, though I seem to be defending it against the two-star rating that's probably more accurate.
Similar passages in The Greater Trumps felt forced and tedious, the images surprisingly muddled for a book about creation and symbolism, populated by seventy-eight miniature pieces of art.However, the good bits are very good indeed, as in this quote from Nancy to her beloved:
(Indeed!)If there had been more passages like these, I could have enjoyed this book as much as I wound up appreciating it: love rather than interest.
She did not, in the ordinary sense, “pray for” Nancy; she did not presume to suggest to Omniscience that it would be a thoroughly good thing if It did; she merely held her own thought of Nancy stable in the midst of Omniscience.These are some of the gems that make for me the reading of each Charles Williams novel a treasure hunt.
И това е точно така...Още в началото се запознаваме със странните и чудати членове на семейство Конингсби – строгият Лотеър Конингсби, децата му Ралф и Нанси, и леля им Сибил, която е вечно усмихната, добра и никога за нищо на се сърди.
Когато семейството приема предложението на потайния годеник на Нанси – Хенри – да празнуват Коледа заедно с неговия дядо, приключението вече е набрало нужната скорост и започва спонтанно.
Може би е добре да отбележа, че Хенри е от цигански произход и неговия род (в това число и дядо му, който притежава странни танцуващи фигури, и старата му леля, която прилича на вещица) е много свързан с легендите и преданията за картите таро.
This book is about order.
Certain forces do disrupt orders, fools of a sort.
This is presaged early on in a wierd way by a character who corrects a bumper sticker that says, "Love God or go to hell".
She corrects it by saying "Love or be in hell." This sums up Williams' strange and idiosyncratic 'theology' and is the theme of this book.
When he writes about what disrupts the universal order, he is on much less firm ground.
One remembers what Picassio said of William Blake, it was explained to the master that Blake was drawing pictures of what he alone could see.
But he's still the shizzy!Upon an ancient golden table, golden figurines perpetually move "by some magnetism of the Earth" to the "Great Dance" - that is, the rhythm of all things that happen in this world.
The table and figurines are half of a set.
Together, it is believed, they have the power to explain eachother's mysteries, and maybe even manipulate time, space, and the elements.
By some great coincidence (or movement of the Dance) 2 families are brought together who each have one half of the set.
Williams may be a little hard to read and a little harder still to understand but duelly worth it for the reward!
Even when the true law was discovered, when she knew that shehad the right and the power to possess all things, on the one conditionthat she was herself possessed, even then her freedom to yield herselfhad been won by many conflicts....She attempted dutifully to enjoy and failed, but while sheattempted it the true gift was delivered into her hands.......a fanatic in a train who had given her a tract: Love God or go toHell.
She wasdoubtful also about God; Love would have been sufficient by itself butit was necessary at first to concentrate on something which could bedistinguished from all its mortal vessels, and the more one lived withthat the more one found that it possessed in fact all the attributes ofDeity.
Certainly no one else has ever written quite like him either in terms of style or ideas, which is part of his appeal.This time around I concluded that the first half of the book was the most successful--that is to say, before the supernatural aspect becomes dominant.
Since Williams could quite brilliantly convey mystical and supernatural states and ideas, it is disappointing that that doesn't come off as well in this book.
But it is also that really the entire second half of the book is an extended climax, which I don't think works well dramatically.
'You're everything that's nice, of course, but you're terrifying as well.'" (58)"'I think it's long,' he said, 'since you have wished yourself anything but what you are.'" (58)"She - the only eyes that can read the future exactly, and she doesn't wan to know the future." (96)"Henry said, 'Is it foolish to give oneself to a purpose and die if it perishes?' 'Disproportioned, don't you think?' Sybil suggested.
The plot involves the attempts by a few characters to get control of the original set of tarot cards from which all other decks are copied.
With the original deck the user cannot manipulate the future rather than just foretell it, also each suit bestows a degree of control over one of the classical elements: earth, air, fire, and water.
The description sounds like the plot of a classic quest fantasy, but in execution it is more like an Edwardian English parlor room novel.
Still, any fan of eclectic pre-Tolkien Fantasy would be advised to give Williams a try.
Charles Williams, like all the Inklings, was weird as hell.
He worked at an academic publishing house, which he regarded as a kind of knightly devoir, and conducted more-or-less courtly love affairs with a little bdsm glitter sprinkled over them, while taking part in an Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn-y church thing.
As in most of Williams' books, avatars of the Elder Gods appear, including an old woman who is actually Isis and Innanna.
The casual racism that runs through all of Williams' work is well to the fore in some spots, alas--the reader is warned.
It centers on a mysterious set of golden figures which moves across a golden table, and a set of Tarot cards which matches the figures and holds the key to understanding the movement (dance) of the figures.
The dance represents the activity of all things in the universe.
The golden figures are held by an old gypsy but the cards are owned by the father of the gypsy's grandson's lover.Suffice it to say that things get completely out of control when the gypsies try to obtain the cards in order to bring them together with the figures.
All in all, an interesting look at the Tarot.
