https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543086.Tom_s_Midnight_Garden
Time Slip is used brilliantly in the plot that you don't know between the two main characters, Tom or Hatty, is the ghost and who is a real human being.
To give you an example, in the movie Sixth Sense, you know right away who are the ghosts because the boy character says "I see dead people." Here, at first, I thought Hatty was clearly the ghost until she described Tom and then I did not know anymore.
The difference between the two is that the characters in this book, Tom and the elderly Hatty, are real people so it is easy to identify with them.
Book 32/100 of 2015
Tom's Midnight Garden by Philippa Pearce fits perfectly in this category and it's one of my favorite examples.Tom Long, the present day (that being probably the 1950s) protagonist is sent away to his aunt and uncle's flat while his brother recovers at home from the measles.
The only clue to the house's history is an old grandfather clock that keeps perfect time but chimes at random.The clock is also the key for Tom to travel back in time to the Victorian era where he meets a girl about his age named Hatty (Harriet) Melbourne.
I read this book 10 years ago, and it still haunts me.Tom is forced to stay with aunt and uncle for the holidays.
Tom is led to open the back door, and he finds a blooming and live garden, which he learns later isn't there during the daytime.In the garden world, time stood still for him.
The author weaves Tom's day-life with his life in the midnight-garden deftly.
In his day-life, Tom struggled to find the explanation to the garden.
Things are going bad (to his mind) when his stay at his aunt and uncle is nearly over, and he found he didn't want to leave the midnight-garden, nor let it change.Carnegie Medal Winner 1958
I know this story well, I had the audio book on tape (yes tape, I am 21, kids) when I was a little girl but it was an abridged radio-play dramatization style so it was such a luxury to be able to actually read the words, as if for the first time again.
A true delight, if you're a grown up like me, pick it up, read it, love it and hang onto it for your kids.(I knocked of .5 of a star because THIS SHOULD HAVE BEEN A SERIES.
Imagine it, Tom spending entire summers there, growing up and still going back, maybe falling in love in the garden!?
All this time I thought I had already added it to the shelf.
This is a true children's classic.
It is a beautiful, haunting evocative story of childhood, growing up, adulthood and old age.
It's also unbearably sad, in a happy kind of way, if that makes sense.
It's the story of life.
As a child and a teenager I used to have dreams about the Midnight garden, so did last night.
The story is about how two lonely children - a liitle boy named Tom and a little girl named Hattie - found each other's worlds and shared their lives.
If I ever need to cry, I pick up this book (one of my favourites) and skim right to the end, to the line: "he put his arms right round her and hugged her good-bye as if she were a little girl." What a beautiful book this is - I was not a child when I read this but I want to read this to my children one day.
This is another one of those titles that remember from school days but cannot remember reading - Along with the rats of NIMH and the secret garden there were a list of books we had to read at school which I think at the time I dreaded or hated in equal measures but now look back with fondness and curiosity.
And I must admit the memories all came flooding back - yet the book reads both at times quaintly and a little out of date - rather like the times I re-read Porterhouse Major - but then again this book was first written in the 50s so I cannot really hold it accountable for all my adult reservations.
It has been several years since I last read this beautifully enchanting and somewhat haunting time-slip tale about childhood, friendship, adolescence and the ocean swept passages of time.This being not only my favourite time travel book but perhaps my favourite stand alone novel of all time, I thought its about time I wrote a little something about it.
At the time, the book became one of my instant favourites despite my love for more fast pace action adventures and fantasies.However, as an adult, the book resonates in a much different way, more deeper layers emerge about childhood innocence, growing up, and reflections on the passing phases of time, both good and bad.
This children's classic - one of the most beloved Carnegie Medal winners of all time - will probably be my last read of 2017.
I read it, finally, because Penelope Lively praised it so highly in her recent gardening memoir Life in the Garden.
Lively considers it to be far superior to The Secret Garden, that other wonderful children's classic set in a garden.
But part of what she objected to is the fact that the idea of a garden as a place for healing is too 'obviously loaded with meaning' in The Secret Garden.
Oh my God! I have no words for this book! This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever read, I swear! The final scene is the most heartwarming scene in a book I've ever read. Yes, it is a book for children, but you should all read it. It is amazing!
It could be a 1970s child, who feels his summer was forfeited by spending it with his apartment-dwelling Aunt.
He loves his family’s yard and his Aunt only has trashcans on cement.
It looked like a ghost story but I quickly shook off my dismay that this isn’t what it is.
It’s a poignantly-layered, enriching rendezvous across time.
It isn’t a one-time privilege.
This was meant as a startling moment but it’s beautiful, that neither noticed a gap widening in their ages because of their bond.
I absolutely loved the series, but to my chagrin I never read the book on which it was based - until now.I'd always assumed that this was a modern book but on checking the details I found it was written in 1958 - this explains how Pearce has a natural way with words and how she recaptures the same magic of childhood as Enid Blyton did.
In fact, as time goes on, I think readers will realise more and more that this is a true classic of the period.TOM'S MIDNIGHT GARDEN is one of those spooky, magical stories that creeped me out as a kid but now have me spellbound to the page.
There isn't much for Tom to do, but one night when the big old Grandfather clock in the hall strikes Thirteen, Tom goes to investigate.
He opens a door to shine some moonlight on the clock........and finds a wonderful garden where there should only be rubbish bins and concrete.
I saw it in a bookshop recently and had to get it - I was worried that it wouldn't have the same magic after so long but I needn't have worried, it was just as magical, wonderful, bittersweet, and engaging as it was when I was a child.
So beautiful, especially the last half!If you used to spend your childhood playing outdoors, or if you're into gardens, or if you simply love a sweet story with a touch of fantasy, you should seriously consider reading this book.I think it's even better to read this as an adult, because you will get all the finer nuances and details that a child might not realise.
*** Review available by request for those on my Friend list ***
When I think about this book, I get the same sort of feeling as Tom at the beginning of the story -- a little stifled, restless, too full of food.
Anyway, that somewhat colours my memories of this book, making it a bit less wondrous than perhaps it should be.
It never gets too saccharine, though -- perhaps just slightly, at the end, but that's a nice touch for the very end.Despite the male protagonist, it isn't only a boy's story -- his friend is a young girl, Hatty, who is equally capable of climbing trees and making a bow and arrows...
Fanciful...timey-wimey...too gentle and charming to be called sci-fi, but you get the idea.In this book, written in the 50s, young Tom Long must go stay with his uncle and aunt to be quarantined in case he caught the measles from his brother.While there, late at night, he hears the grandfather clock chime thirteen times.
And will Tom ever understand the enigma that is his Midnight Garden?It's a really very touching story by the end, with a surprise twist that will give you all the feels.
I suppose it was written for children, but it surprised me and I enjoyed it a lot.
Pearce left me with mixed feelings throughout my reading of her book.
It is this language that makes it all the more heartbreaking when Tom has to leave this world, live in the present and move on with his life.
Another positive to the text is the philosophical questions that Pearce evokes.
I sometimes felt that Hatty and Tom's encounters were anticlimactic, with a lack of purpose and meaning behind them, and I found myself wondering what it was all amounting to.
However, I felt that her writing did become more focused towards the end of the story, and amounted to an excellent final plot twist.
Poor Tom, forced to go away during the summer holiday while his brother suffers the measles, and kept indoors under quarantine. How old-fashioned is that? Between Tom's unattractive sulking and insomnia, my general lack of interest in gardening, and a personal fear that this was going to turn into one of those stories about a guy finding the perfect mate by traveling back to a time before feminism, well, I didn't have high hopes. But it turned out to be a story about falling in love with a place, instead of a person. That I enjoyed very much.
I first came across this book, not in the library, but on an old PBS radio show called The Spider's Web. We did not get very good reception - the narrator's voice (Frances Shrand was her name) sometimes disappeared mid chapter but once we caught the title I hurried to the library to find it. My book had this very cover: https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...Technically, this should be categorized as time slip rather than time travel...
A wonderful, charming book that, like the garden in the title, may hold just as much for the reader older in years as for the young.
(view spoiler)[time travel tales are almost all duds.
Hattie was never married to Tom, so we can feel warm and fuzzy that they were friends, and most of us can only dream of having such a friendship, but it's not what people want from the plot.
This tale fails in terms of inevitability.
Two children are lonely so they cross time to meet each other, even though there are other people around.
This story works on the basic emotional level, but not on the true wish fulfillment level.
(hide spoiler)]In story terms, this is a mess.
1. Iznerviram se kad u ovim godinama saznam da postoji klasik dečje književnosti za koji nisam ni čula2. Iznerviram se što ovo nisam pročitala 30 godina ranije. Ok. 25 godina ranije. Osećam da bi mi bilo nešto najomiljenije na svetu.2b. Iako mislim da bi meni bilo najomiljenije na svetu, nisam sigurma da bih mogla da preporučim Kad sat otkuca trinaest malcima danas jer je, naročito negde oko prve trećine, knjiga veoma spora. Prosto ritam iz drugog vremena. Ali to se do kraja sve isplati.
ชวงแรกกจะนาเบือหนอยเพราะผูเขียนดำเนินเรืองดวยบทบรรยายเปนสวนมากแตพอเริมตืนเตน มันกสนุกดีนะเราชอบพลอต โดยเฉพาะในตอนจบ มันเซอรไพรส และนารักดีอบอุน นารัก อิมเอม
ช่วงแรกก็จะน่าเบื่อหน่อยเพราะผู้เขียนดำเนินเรื่องด้วยบทบรรยายเป็นส่วนมากแต่พอเริ่มตื่นเต้น มันก็สนุกดีนะเราชอบพล็อต โดยเฉพาะในตอนจบ มันเซอร์ไพรส์ และน่ารักดีอบอุ่น น่ารัก อิ่มเอม
Such an adorable book!
Another children’s book, I wish I would have read when I was a child.
I’d compare this to ‘The Secret Garden’ and Julie Edwards novel, ‘Mandy’.
I think I would have loved to discover a secret garden as a child.
I can just imagine where it would take my imagination.
I also loved the idea of the time travel, and figuring out the mystery of the clock and why Tom was able to go back in time to Hatty and the garden.
Definitely think this could be a magical book for all ages.
I was not, as a rule, a huge fan of sad book when I was a child, but I remember both loving Tom's Midnight Garden and finding it heartbreaking.
Sometimes I'm reluctant to reread something that gave me so much pleasure as a child, because I want to hold on to that initial experience.
Now I appreciate the story in a more articulate way, while having the added pleasure and poignancy of being able to remember the experience of being a child reading the book for the first time.
This is one of those novels that I'll remember and appreciate in time more than I do now. The story is a good one, and there are many memorable scenes. However, I found the writing rather tedious, sluggish; I kept wanting the pace of the narrative to pick up. The final forty pages are quite lovely, and the final encounter choked me up. Still, I don't know that I'd recommend this to a child - certainly not before "The Borrowers" or "The Children of Green Knowe."
There's a reason why this book is a classic.I haven't read this book since being at primary school in the nineteen-eighties, and even then, the book was read to me.I'm now thirty-six, and I've enjoyed reading it as much as I did hearing it. The best children's books are the ones that you still want to read as an adult.This is a beautiful story, one that is wonderful to escape into.Highly recommended.--Tristan Sherwin, author of *Love: Expressed*
Một cuốn sách đáng yêu, huyền bí và mê hoặc. Có đứa trẻ nào lại không thích những khu vườn, không thích du hành thời gian và đặc biệt ai lại không từng mơ ước được đi vào trong thế giới của những giấc mơ.
