https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435415.Tea_with_the_Black_Dragon
One of my favorite, favorite books. And one of my favorite authors.I read this one at least two times a year.R.A. MacAvoy has this ability to write both sparsely and with a richness that makes me want to buy her laundry lists :)Tea with the Black Dragon and its sequel, Twisting the Rope, and absolute must reading if you enjoy philosophical fiction that weaves in humor and great characters as well.
I'm not giving any hints about the nature of the heist, because it is not revealed at the start of the book, I would just mention that the parts dealing with computers are quite well researched and brought some nostalgia avout 8080 chipsets and magnetic band software loaded from a casette player.Being a bit on the short side, the book doesn't go too deeply into character background and motivations, but what there is mesh well with the action thriller plot.
I would have liked to spend more pages on the history of Oolong (Chinese Dragons apparently love to drink tea and read books), but I guess this would have slowed down the pace considerably.
3.6 stars
MacAvoy, however, seems to write one story well, and then move on to the next, which is generally completely unrelated-- not to say she doesn't write sequels, but when she is done with a story, she moves on, and writes the next thing.This may make her less marketable, but I have never read anything by her that I didn't enjoy.Tea With the Black Dragon is an example of what is apparently now called Urban Fantasy, (I think?
I liked it a lot in 1994, on a reread.
Time for a reread?
Not at the library.Jo Walton's is the review to read: https://www.tor.com/2010/01/25/the-te..."Tea With the Black Dragon is an odd but charming book.
It has an action-adventure plot with kidnapping, embezzlement and early eighties computer fraud -- but that’s secondary to what it’s about.
It’s very short, barely a couple of hours’ read, which was unusual even when books used to be shorter.""Tea With the Black Dragon" won a Locus Award for best first novel, and was nominated for a batch of other awards.
This was a very, very poorly written book. By the Nines, the dialogue was so utterly forced. Character descriptions were absurd. >The dragon was an idiot. >The heroine was an idiot. >The daughter was an idiot. >The love sick puppy was an idiot. >The bad guys were idiots.They shot a cat.Oh, and because racism. WTF is the difference between an asian and a british smile exactly? Someone please explain.
Un libro delicioso que describe unos personajes muy interesantes.Acción, romance, y una increíble sorpresa.Orientalismo, zen... una mezcla muy original que hará las delicias de los nostálgicos de los años 70.Hace poco he descubierto que hay segunda parte, investigaré si está traducida al español.
Read this multiple times because I liked it so much.
It is unusual not to delve into the power and life of an ancient and magical figure, since they tend to be the most interesting part of the story, but MacAvoy does not do this.
He instead masterfully plays with the reader only giving us glimmers of Mayland Long’s life, leaving us wanting more and at the same time knowing that Long’s future lies in the present and that his past is irrelevant.
Most fantasy novels choose to go back to a preindustrial world or a totally new world from our own; this book, however, is written in modern times and includes present-day technology (at least for when it was written; it seems a bit out dated now).
Titular dragon is Mayland Long; he has tea with Martha Macnamara, who has just checked into the hotel, where he lives.
Also, which sexagenerian is able to leap in the air or shred the doors with his hands?Despite this fantasy hints, it's more of a old-style thriller than urban fantasy.If you're interested in “official” opinions, Tea with the Black Dragon was nominated for the Phillip K.
Campbell Award for Best New Science Fiction/Fantasy writer in 1984.If you're interested in more personal opinions - for me, it's a subtle but predictable book.
I found this book in a rummage bin, rather the worse for wear, and didn’t even pick it up for a song.I found out later it’s both a Hugo and Nebula nominee circa 1984.The plot is a bit serpentinous.
You have the start of a quest, Martha trying to find her grown daughter, Elizabeth, and happens to meet and enlist the help of one enigmatic Mr. Long, an older man with a vaguely oriental appearance who has the habit of discussing his life as a black dragon if he drinks a little too much.
It's not a bad book, a quick read. A bit predictable, but fun. Diverting.
It’s slight, and perhaps a little melodramatic, and it’s not much of a romance since it’s pretty much a case of love at first sight, but it gets extra points because the love interest is a middle-aged woman.Martha, an ethereal musician, has flown to San Francisco in response to a vague distress call from her daughter.
He tells her some fantastical stories, and “her listening had an intensity which reached out into the speaker and eased the meaning from him”.The fall in love at once, but they don’t realize it until the daughter goes missing, then Martha goes missing, and Long rides to the rescue in his Citroën.
Martha Macnamara flies out to San Francisco to meet her estranged daughter, Liz, who is in some kind of trouble.
He laughs when he whispers that Mr. Long once told him that he used to be a Chinese black dragon who loved to read.
Martha and Mr. Long become friends, and she asks him to help her find her daughter.
Then Martha disappears, and Mayland Long must rely on his intelligence, enormous strength, and his ability to understand people to sort through the clues and find both women before it’s too late.I really enjoyed this mystery.
This was a lot different than I expected. I thought it would be more of a fantasy, but that is really very much in the background and the story is really about trying to find some missing persons. Which, really, is how the blurb reads, but I must have forgotten that by the time I actually read it. I enjoyed the two protagonists being older and I thought some of the writing was beautiful. A quick read.
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Martha Macnamara's daughter is in trouble, so she does what most of us would; calls her mother, so said mother leaves New York to meet her in San Francisco.
In her posh hotel she meets a weird Asian man, named Mayland Long, who seems impossibly old for someone looking middle-aged.
She laughs when Long is trying to ask questions to her daughter's old acquaintance and doesn't even pay attention to the things being said.
In short, she feels like a kid with attention issues in the body of a middle-aged woman.
I wanted to read this book for a long time and all.
I don't know if I can categorize it, but there's an unusual romance plot, as well as some elements of crime fiction and some of light fantasy.
I've never read a romance featuring a woman older than her early 40s, so I was really happy about that.
Liz believes that her mother deserves adulation from everyone she meets, and the author succeeded in creating a character who lives up to that high esteem, while still making Martha human and imperfect.This book feels relevant to current discussions about the barriers women face in the tech industry, although it definitely isn't about that topic.
I remember this having been a great book, it wasn't quite as wonderful as I thought.All the same, this is still a lovely, little story.
Those are still wonderful ideas and I loved revisiting them.The story itself doesn't hold them up as well as it might, but is well worth taking the time to read.I hadn't realised there was actually so little of Martha in the story.
It's is Mayland Long's book more than it is hers, and I love him to pieces.
He's a truly wonderful character.The computing aspects of the story have dated - how could they not with the advances that have been made since the book was published.
A truly delightful fantasy/mystery hybrid with warmth and wit to spare.
Partly this is due to the balance; this is a mystery that just happens to have a fantasy element.
There is also tone; this is much closer in feel to stories of amateur detectives, such as Lord Peter Wimsey, than it is to the noir-ish PI novels that inspire most modern UF.
They are all unassuming and, each in their own way, quite formidable.I have only hinted at the story and have made no mention at all of the fantasy elements; that is intentional.
The less you know going in, the more it will surprise and, hopefully, delight you.
I have a feeling that if I'd read this in the 80s, I'd have rated it higher.
(Please note: I'm not really referring to the romance, or old computer tech, but to the 'feel').I've been interested in reading this for years, so was very happy to find it on sale for kindle for $1.99.The proofing and formatting is not wonderful, (no scene breaks), but I'm happy to acquire it at that price point.
I wouldn't be averse to reading the sequel, but I'm definitely not interested in paying full price for it since several reviews point out it is even more poorly edited than this one.
So...how would a dragon appear if he lived in a hotel in San Francisco? Enjoyable read with just enough excitement mixed with character development and an interesting concept. The writing is a bit distant--something about the author's style puts a layer of insulation between the events in the story and the reader so that emotional involvement does not happen. However, I still read the whole thing without getting bored or impatient and went on to read the next in the series.
I listened to the audible audiobook. Intriguing mystery. Good narration. Recommended.
The computer-related elements of the story seemed remarkably primitive, even for 1983, but I guess 35 years ago really was a long time ago in terms of computer tech!MacAvoy was big into zen IRL, and that shows here as it does in other novels of hers.
It was also unusual in that the female MC is over 50 with a grown daughter, and the male MC apparently about the same age.The mystery was heavily wrapped up with computer tech, which was unfortunate since computers have progressed so far since then.
We’ve come a long way."Unfortunately, the narrator -- Megan Hayes -- was not very good.
There she explains that her daughter has gone missing, while being absently fascinated by Mayland’s extraordinarily long fingers.Mayland is much taken with Martha, since it seems that she embodies something he has been searching for.We soon learn that Mayland has not always been human and was once a Chinese Imperial Black dragon.
On the bare, bleached oak floor were scattered cobalt Rya rugs, like holes in smooth ice, On a table in the dining ell rested a tray of Swedish glass, glinting smooth and colorless.’ (Chapter 6)I have often criticised short novels for containing more characters than the word count can comfortably support.
3 1/2 starsA nice little mystery thriller with muted fantasy elements and really strong, charming characters.
The first few chapters read a bit stilted and awkward but once I relaxed into the eccentricities of the main characters (and what interesting main characters they are!), the language seemed more natural and graceful.
I look forward to spending a couple more hours with Martha and Mayland.
N.B. Terrible proofreading, typos and general formatting in this edition, though, so if this bothers you and you still want to read this, perhaps look for an older print version.
I reread the seires through audible. What a delight. I totally forgot I enjoyed them all those years ago. Now that I actually went to San Francisco in 2010, the descriptions made much better sense, too. It was a fun and nostalgic read.
A marvellous little book. I wonder if MacAvoy had just the one superb book in her, since subsequent offerings have been disappointing. Highly recommend this one.
One of my all time favorite books. Beautifully written. A mature heroine, what a treat!
Re-readinh this today was interesting. Essentially a 1980 crime mystery/thriller with just a touch of fantasy, it was quite buzzworthy in its day, partly for the contemporary fantasy with a Chinese dragon turned human, and partly for the then-current computer geekery, which seems dated today (though I still remember the 8080 & Dr. Dobbs, etc.) Still an entertaining read.
