https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112033.K2_The_Savage_Mountain
There is an understated quality to this account of the 1953 American expedition that reflects the integrity and commitment to each other that characterized what is now referred to as the 'old school' approach to planning a summit bid.
They did not reach the summit because of the weather.
One can only imagine how horrific and frightening those days and nights were hoping for a change in the weather, and then having to begin a descent in those stormy conditions to try and save a teammate with blood clots.
The memorial was put up in 1953 to mark the death of Art Gilkey, a member of the 1953 American expedition to K2.
K2 the Savage Mountain tells the story of that expedition, Gilkey's death, and the famous attempt to save him.Art Gilkey was struck with thrombophlebitis high on K2, becoming so incapacitated by it that he was unable to climb.
The other members of the expedition undertook heroically to carry him down the mountain despite a drastic deterioration in the weather and the fact that it was all but certain that Gilkey could not be saved, and that the rescue attempt would cost everyone their lives.
While I don't climb mountains, this book is an example of how it should be done.
Everybody working together to get to the summit, and down safely, if at all possible.While everybody knows Mt. Everest is the highest mountain in the world, unless you're a mountain climber or an obsessed reader of mountaineering books, you might not know that K2 is actually the most difficult mountain, and most deadly mountain to climb.Charles Houston and Robert Bates wrote different chapters, and it was indicated who wrote which ones at the beginning of each one.
This did not break up the flow of the book at all in my opinion.
. K2 differs from Everest in that it requires a multitude of climbing skills: snow and rock.
Everest requires mostly snow climbing skill.
(today all it takes is money to get on an expedition to Everest, it seems.) Unable to take Sherpas along because of the still intense border conflict between India and Pakistan, they had to rely on the less experienced Hunzas, white guys being apparently unable to carry their own stuff.
That posed a real problem for the rest of the group because it meant not only did they have to get themselves down, difficult enough with increased danger from avalanches from the new snow, they had to maneuver a sick man while climbing very difficult rock at an altitude with little oxygen.
This may be my favorite expedition account of the K2 books. There is something so wonderful about the collective voice that emerges from this account. The teamwork from the 1953 group and their remarkable dynamic is inspirational; despite the fact they did not make the summit.
Inspiring true story of heroism, adventure, & unbroken bonds of brotherhood, even to the death. The events that transpired on this mountain in this book are a clear illustration that it's all about the journey, not the destination.
This book had everything I wanted. Not only was it a great book with actual diaries/stories but they also HAD LISTS OF TRAVEL PLANS, ECONOMICS AND EQUIPMENT. I was in geeky heaven.
I liked the emphasis on team work and working together, but without too much stress on the American aspect of the climb – in fact, the stress is on the inter-cultural aspects of the excursion.
Eventually, one member of the team, Art Gilkey, developed thrombophlebitis and need to be carried down some very difficult areas by others who were also suffering from some severe high altitude problems.
I note that Houston had the thought that Gilkey may have allowed himself to be carried away by the avalanche in order to save his fellow team members.
In the light of such inglorious reputation, the events endured by the 1953 American expedition and portrayed in The Savage Mountain must surely qualify as one of the greatest survival stories of all times.Even with the knowledge of the Karakoram's notoriously unreliable weather, which makes the 8000ers there more challenging than those in Mahalangur Himal (where Everest is located), it can be argued the American team who tried to make the first ascent in 1953 was dealt an extraordinarily unlucky hand.
The Savage Mountain is an excellent book that carries the spirit of the Third American Karakoram Expedition to all who open its pages, thus preserving the memory of some great moments in human history.
A positively riveting book about the failed 1953 expedition to summit K2, the second highest peak in the world and widely considered the most dangerous.
Nowadays, everyone has very prescribed paths up to a summit of an 8000m peak (which are the highest peaks in the world), and even though climbing these mountains is still remarkably difficult, it's nothing like going to these mountains and not knowing the path to summit.
This is a captivating read about the 1953 American expedition to K2, the world's second tallest mountain.
The mountain had yet to be conquered despite numerous attempts, and the Americans hoped this would finally be their year.
This is a terrific tale, filled with fantastic descriptions of the mountains, tales of courage, amazing physical feats (including Pete Schoening's belay that saved the lives of six men), and above all, the strong will and spirits of a group of men on the adventure of a lifetime.
I made it a fair ways into this book before I got rudely denied by whatever semi-legal internet reader I was "previewing" it on.
Hopefully I will actually bother to get a damn library card so I can read the rest, cause I've read other stuff about of the 1953 failed K2 climb, and am really excited about the prospect of reading a first-hand account.
The first however long of the book was really interesting and made me want to read more, besides.If there were some easy way to account for all the reading I do on the internet, I would have many orders of magnitude more reading updates to share with Goodreads.
This was a fun read. I thought it was about the first ascent of K2, so you can imagine my surprise when they turned back. It's still a great story about a heroic rescue from near the summit. The attempt happened in the 50's, so it's written in an Olde Timey sort of style. They mention "morale" constantly which I found amusing. It wasn't the best mountaineering book I've ever read, but it was certainly worth reading.
Stoic story of heroism courage and death. Very straight forward approach to a story that could have been portrayed more dramatically. Authors are honest but show some hesitation on what they did, how they could have handled situations differently. Very...almost brutally honest story. Worth a read if you like adventure novels.
A matter-of-fact telling of the failed attempt to summit the second highest peak in the world in 1953. A classic tale of assaulting a mountain, merely because it has not been before and man should be able to do such a thing.
This was an amazing story and I had a hard time putting it down. More than one miracle happened to get these men safely off of the mountain. It doesn't matter that they didn't reach the summit on this attempt, it is incredible what they suffered and survived. An excellent read!
A little slow the first chapter of mountain history but after that I couldn't put it down. I love that the book was written as a team because of their emphasis on the necessity of a real team spirit required for this K2 attempt. Really excellent.
Not as exciting as Annapurna in that they didn't get the first ascent, but another really good tale of mountaineering in the 50's. Climbing mountains must have been much harder when you had to haul a pair of huge brass balls with you. Jesus those guys were nuts!
1953 expedition of disaster and survival but failure to summit.
a classic. first person(s) account of a successful yet failed attempt on k2. loved it
excellent climbing book
Adventure Library
harrowing!
Bob Bates was my brother's ski coach at Exeter and a member of this doomed expedition. "Only" one person died and they didn't make the summit. Date read is a guess.
Edge of the seat, white knuckle account of one of the most daring expeditions of all time!
