https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242079.Drummer_Hoff
Like many little boys, I was enamored by soldiers, and would pour over the book again and again, entranced by the colorful European dress uniforms worn by the motley bunch of soldiers who were assembling, loading, and preparing to fire a cannon.
I would try to draw soldiers who looked like those in the book, and learned all the words by heart.Jump forward thirty years.
My first child was born, and though I hadn't looked at the book in over twenty-five years, I found myself chanting the words to my baby as I rocked him to sleep - I still remembered them perfectly!
I retrieved Drummer Hoff from my parent's attic, and it became a favorite of my boys.
This is probably a 3 for my enjoyment level but I have to bump it up because it's so memorable.This was my first time reading it as an adult and I was struck by the final illustration of Drummer Hoff; very powerful seeing the cannon covered in cobwebs and flowers, birds and butterflies.
While this is not destined to be one of my favorite books, and wasn't a favorite when I was a kid, either, it is definitely one of those books that sticks in my mind because of the illustrations.
The 1968 Caldecott Award winner. I found this at a garage sale of a retiring educator a couple of years ago and this title has sat on a downstairs bookshelf until I decided to go back and read these award winners this weekend.Delightful verse about the hierarchy of people who give orders until the eventual firing of the cannon by Drummer Hoff. Colorful woodcuts make up the illustrations that are a feast for the eyes.This might work well in a writer workshop if the prompt involved many people in a process.
This book was about war. All of the members of the war were missing an arm, leg, or were wearing an eye patch. At the end of the book they blew themselves up because they stood in front of the cannon. At the end of the book nature took over. I liked this book but I feel that it would be confusing for a young reader to understand the message behind the book.
Ever come across a book and remember that it was one of your favorites as a child? This book was in a used book store and it hit me...BOOM! Like a cannon ball of memory - taking me back to a time when my grandfather first read it to me.
“General BorderGave the order,Major ScottBrought the shot,Captain BammerBrought the rammer,Sergeant ChowderBrought the powder,Corporal FarrellBrought the barrel,Private ParriageBrought the carriage,But Drummer Hoff fired it off.” I think this book would be perfect for a reading or writing workshop, because it takes various components and adds them to the existing story – an important element of writing in general.
This text could be used for different purposes: to discuss poetic writing and other literary elements; as a mentor text for intertwining history into your writing; to learn about this period of history; or to convey the social-emotional type lesson that everyone has something unique to offer to an overall production… Everyone has a gift that is to be valued.
A fun read aloud, perfect for babies, toddlers, and young children. Filled with repetion, my kids loved to help me say all the different parts as each person was added to the story, but their favorite part was the end when "Drummer Hoff fired it off" and the got to say "Kababloom!"
DRUMMER HOFF FIRRRRRED IT OFF! KABLOOOOOM!
Short and sweet. Love the illustrations and rhyming.
The soldiers bring something or other to fire off a cannon. They all have a part to play. The rhyme is repetitive in a House that Jack Built fashion. But the real winner is that bright artwork made of woodcuts. The end page is particularly good according to me, because the canon, which has been made to explode, is now in ruins, with flowers and butterflies running through it. Very Ozymandias. (Another book I didn't test on my son because I read it in the library just before returning it, but I'd like to).
Fascinating book. I really liked the illustrations, this may be a good choice for a rhythm storytime. Has a nice structure to it that seems like it would work nicely. Very simple and short with a brief humorous bit at the end.
They build the cannon on a grassy field, and in the end it is overgrown by flowers and plants, and birds are perched on the canon.
When the cannon is finally fired, the entire page is drawn in red, the smoke from the blast, the grass, the cannon itself, and Drummer Hoff himself, against a brilliant blue background.
With only the cumulative song as text, the pictures on the final pages are the epilogue to the firing of the cannon.This book could be used in a classroom in a counting lesson.
This is a picture book for very young children, with repetitive rhymes that tell the story of a group of soldiers who build a cannon. Illustrator Ed Emberley won the Caldecott medal for his work. The vibrantly colored illustrations remind me of a psychedelic Beatles album cover!
For example, Chowder brings the powder, and Harrel or Farrel or some similar name brings a barrel.
The problem is the gun powder is already in a barrel, and the barrel actually referred to is the barrel of the cannon, which actually took me a while myself, so it would have to fly over children's heads completely.
Eventually, Drummer Hoff sets off the cannon, and it appears everybody else is standing in front of it at the time and is blown to kingdom come, though that isn't made completely explicit.
It is a short poem about troops of soldiers who will fire off cannon.
The illustrations appear to me like woodcut printing because the lines look stiff and there are many geometrical shapes.
The blast forms red swirls that sweep across to another page; the loud noise of blasting is printed in bold yellow capital letters; the soldier, the carriage, the land are covered in red and the background in cold blue and sharp lines.
Otherwise it just seems like happy soldiers who go onto the battlefield and nothing bad happens.
Time Machine 5.0 out of 5 stars Drummer Hoff Hits a Home Run, April 29, 2005 I found the reviews of Drummer Hoff to be very interesting, particularly the parts about what this book meant to my fellow readers in their youth.
As a mom with two young children (38 months and almost 5) I am constantly looking for books of all sorts to read to them.
I particularly like books that my kids love enough to memorize on their own.In this light, Drummer Hoff is a complete hit.
The drawings are so intense and interesting that my son brings the book to me all the time...
This story tells the progression of building a cannon.
As the story retells the progression of the cannon the illustrations do as well.
I love the fact that the progression in the picture is built upon after each step.
Great pictures!
This book would make for a great lesson on the importance of detail in stories.
It would be a great activity to have students read this book, and then write and illustrate their own story that has to do with the steps of a process.
Students could even share their stories with other students to make sure their processes are complete and make sense!
As Drummer Hoff goes through the motions of rhyming word, it also shoes how these men of war are preparing a canon.
One book character is missing a limb while another character is wearing an eye patch, it is what brings this story together as the main officer is who call commands to have his men shoot the canon.
Drummer Hoff is a great book to read through, as being a Caldecott Medal winner.
I read a few reviews on goodreads, and a lot of people either don't like this book or think children won't like this book.
I'm only 21 so I was a child and enjoyed this book in the 90s (which is not very long ago).I loved this book as a child.
The longer the sentence got the more I anticipated the pay-off of the canon firing.
First of all, kids are different and some may like it and some may not.
Second, think about how long it's been since you were a kid.
Adults think differently than kids and there is no substitute.Happy Readings!
2010: This story repeats without being annoying (it isn't too long) and demonstrates chain of events, as well as the workings of a cannon, which will always be interesting to little boys (and probably girls, too). The illustrations are to die for. Definitely a classic!2013 update: My little girl loves this book even more than my little boy did. And I love the pictures so much.
The pictures were lovely...but I need a plot. A story of SOMETHING. Rhyming is fun, and learning happened - so the kids were happy. But I need MORE.
The inside flap of the book indicates that it is illustrated by Ed Emberley using brightly colored wood cuts that reflect the energy and age of the story.
Every wood cut is ornate and portrays each character in a wide variety of intricate patterns and vibrant colors.
The cumulative song-like poem that accompanies the illustrations tell the story of a group of soldiers coming together to build a cannon that they eventually fire.
In addition to this, the building aspect of the story as characters are added may be useful for helping children recognize sequencing and patterns.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit, and although the words were simple and the story did not really have much of a meaning behind it, the illustrations were so colorful and eye-catching.
The front cover is very eye-catching, it shoes the Drummer Hoff next to the cannon, while the back cover is nothing but a picture of the Drummer Hoff.
The rhyme and repetition would make it enjoyable for younger children, and it would allow them to see words again that they may not have known or seen before.
Overall, I had never read this book until now and I really enjoyed the folk verse as well as the colorful illustrations.
This book is a super fun read for any age group that also contains super detailed and intricate illustrations.
The illustrations were created using ink coloring, and in a special way she was able to make them as vibrant and beautiful as they are.
My favorite aspect about this book, as I am sure is many other peoples favorite aspect, is the vibrancy and intricate detail about the illustrations.
As you keep turning the pages the images get more and more detailed and more and more colorful.
The way this book carries on is so beautiful.
Overall, I really enjoyed reading this book and looking at the great illustrations.
Drummer Hoff is a folk-verse tale about the different soldiers that bring parts to assemble a cannon.
Drummer Hoff can be read purely based off the incredible illustrations.
These illustrations span across two pages and with each turn of the page, new soldiers continually add pieces to the cannon until it is finally ready to be fired off.
When Drummer Hoff fires the cannon at his military superiors, there is an intense spread of red and purple with a huge yellow lettering spelling out “KAHBAHBLOOOM”.
The story ends with only one illustration and no words, depicting the cannon with yellow flowers and colorful chirping birds encompassing it, which I felt very powerful.
Until the final few pages, several of the illustrations are single page on the right and words on blank white background on the left page.
All of the pages have a grassy border underneath, bringing about even more color to the story.
I think that the illustrator made a good choice in a white background because the woodcut colors are strong and bold on their own.
I enjoyed the final pages when the reader is able to realize that the group is firing a cannon.
These few pages are full of color, to say the least, and captivate the eyes.
The overall book is a classic as it sticks to the friendly rhyming patterns.
The overall story is about soldiers who are building a cannon named Sultan.
The pictures remind me of stained glass pieces from a church.
Throughout the book, each soldier brings the piece corresponding to their name and each time they introduce a soldier the rhyme keeps getting longer.
When the last piece is added they fire the canon and then we are shown a canon that has been overgrown by grass, flowers, and wildlife.
Overall this book is very intriguing, to say the least.
Each member of the military brings their own instrument needed to make a cannon and at the end of each page, the line "and Drummer Hoff fired it off" appears.
This book would be fun and meaningful to someone familiar with the military or parts of a cannon, but for the rest of us, we just enjoy the lovely illustrations and begin to form a connection to Drummer Hoff.
The real delight of this book is the ending illustration, which is a full page spread of vibrant color and texture meant to represent the result of Drummer Hoff firing it off.
This is a story that adds in a new section with a rhyme that eventually builds itself up much like the twelve days of Christmas.
This ends with a big bang at the end then follows with the same cannon that was being built in the story now covered in grass and flowers.-The vibrant colors used in this gave it almost more of a mosaic like quality that allowed for the use of many different patterns to be easily recognizable.
Along with the use of white space used to make the images pop out even more made for a great look that was also beautiful and full of texture.
The story is a rhyming book that has different military personnel bringing different parts of a cannon that rhymes with their names such as "Sergeant Chowder brought the powder...but Drummer Hoff fired it off." By the end of the story all of the parts of the cannon are brought together and then Drummer Hoff fires off the cannon.
At the end of the story though it gives the impression that they all died when the cannon does go off, but it isn't explicitly said.
This book wasn't my favorite children's story, but I did like the rhyming that was used in the book.
