https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153800.Lady_Knight
It's also a good way to shore up worldbuilding, because whenever Pierce shows a fragment of a class she's telling us something about Tortall as well as creating a sense of realism to the education her characters are undergoing.But that's not the only thing that makes Kel my favorite.
I really, really like the way magic is handled in this quartet, and in this book in particular, since Tortall is at war.
If Alanna is Dana Scully (petite, sharp-tongued, redheaded; quick with a weapon, and with a penchant for shadowy corners and impossible quests), Kel is a (much less exuberant) Leslie Knope: hardworking, dedicated to civil service, willing to put in the work to make a difference in her community.
But I don't really care if this is bad writing or poor characterization, because what's important about Kel is that all of her achievements are driven through pure, sweaty, hard work.
Kel has a powerful moral compass and an indefatigable work ethic and clear-eyed determination toward her goals.
Now you can argue which series of hers is best –or even which protagonist (the constant debate between Monica & I: Alanna or Kel?)- but you cannot argue her brilliance.This final book had almost zero romance.
(view spoiler)[Tamora, I get why you let him go but you could have given my 10th grade self a little warning that the romance would end without a final meet between characters.
Although I will admit (and I’m sure Monica will rejoice on this): 1) Alanna fight scenes and conclusion better were better in her final book than Kel’s.
There are really great moments, like when Raoul gets angry at Wyldon - little character asides that rise to the heights of previous books - but mostly this is a book where Kel is beloved by everyone worthwhile, and she almost single-handedly wins the war.
And I love how Pierce paints with strokes just fine enough to suggest an entire world of detail outside her descriptions, because that gives Tortall a richness beyond what she actually depicts.
But her strength lies in plots where characters are challenged, and Kel isn't challenged much here.
Given the past week's events, it's been especially nice to escape into a fantasy realm where knights risk their lives to defend refugees.Side note: I wish Goodreads had a way to track re-reads of books, because I've been returning to this one since... sixth grade.
Sadly this book is not my favorite of the series.
But it deserves an extra half a star or so since the series in general is strong.I love Kel and her compassion for the 'small'.
I love her nickname 'Protector of the Small'.
I can't believe that so many people are willing to condone the deaths of children to win a war!
-.-I find the amount of war a bit tedious in this volume.
:/I'm sad that Cleon and Kel didn't work out.
I really hope that Dom and Kel end up together.
He has really grown since the first book.
But like this book kinda killed me a little, (view spoiler)[ WHY DID YOU HAVE TO SINK MY SHIP TAMORA!?!
I loved seeing Kell in this as a Commander in the war efforts rather than just as a lady knight.
She still gets her hero moments, but I loved seeing a woman in charge of so many people, gives me hope.
I think the struggle between Kell wanting to stay and lead at Haven was contrasted really nicely with her desire to run off to Scamron and rid the world of the evil Blayce.
But of all of Ms. Pierces main characters, she's the one I'm most curious about for what the rest of her life is going to bring.
She's the only one so far without a firm romantic interest developing by the end of her books (which was also kind of refreshing; because what are the odds that you'd be sent away from everyone you know, focused on heroics and war, and still have time to fall for someone new?), and we didn't get a whole lot of epilogue for her.ETA: On rereading I realized actually how violent this book is.
Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels because it gives me an amazing array of detailed, vivid friendships and mentor/mentee relationships.
Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels because it is, really, a story about goodness.
Kel's a fave, and this book is a fave, and everyone should probably read it because I want to talk to more people about the incredible character arcs in this series.
Lady Knight had to be my favorite book in the Protector of the Small series (although Squire was right up there too).
Yet Lady Knight was the darkest read of the entire series, offering an eye-opening view of the war and its casualties.
I was not surprised in the slightest when my friend Amanda, from Late Nights with Good Books, informed me that Pierce's writing was influenced by the 9/11 tragedy (which occurred during the creation of Lady Knight).
As always, Kel is driven to help the small, vulnerable individuals that cannot defend themselves from bullying and abuse (hence the title of the series).
Instead, she's ordered to command a refugee camp.
She hardly knows where to begin, but her years with Lord Raoul pay off, and she quickly gains the respect of the soldiers, refugees, and convicts through her organization, quick thinking, and hard work.
But Kel can't stay off the front lines forever, and eventually she must face down the man who kills children and uses their souls to power war machines.I loved reading about Kel's time running the refugee camp/fortress.
She considers so many options, and works herself so hard; it's inspiring.
Kel ...
And as her first glorious duty, she is sent off into the field of ...
babysitting?As the war with Scanra blooms into all out strife, Kel is sent to the borders to head a refuge camp.
Can she even come back from that pit of horror and hell unscathed?As 'Blace the Nothing Man' becomes SO much more than nothing, Kel learns who is friend, who is foe, and who she is willing to die for in the end.
Even if it is not herself.A thrilling conclusion to Kel's story.
There is no possible way for me to write a review that will give this book justice.
If I could give this a billion stars, I would *cries for eternity* Kogiopsis (who left a review here) summarizes my thoughts and feelings perfectly!I feel like I'm an emotional wreck right now.
I never cry while reading and this book doesn't change that, but my heart right now throbs.
This is the third time I've read this book and the feelings never change.
I want to say more, but I'm going to go and let my heart weep in a corner.
What a way to end a series....but as I finish, I want more of Kel and Neal and Owen and Jump and Peachblossom and Merric and Tobe and all the others in this series.I know they are grown now but I just feel that something is missing ---- like the rest of Kel's story. Does she ever find love? Or does she spend her life with the commoners and the children as her family?I would love to read more about her even if she only shows up in another series like Alanna did in this series.
All there really is to say about this is that every time I reread this book--which is usually about once a year--I cling desperately to the last ten pages and senselessly hope for another book. While this closes Keladry's quartet quite nicely, I always, always want more.
I loved this book
Good ending to the series!
I really enjoyed the first book in the series; I really got into it--worrying about the main character, getting outraged on her behalf, being amazed at her maturity.
The first book took place over one year so we really got to experience a lot of Kel's life and understand her feelings.
By the second book the timeline sped up; several years went by and by the end of the book Kel was ready to be a squire.
In the first book, I really enjoyed how much Kel excelled at her knight training, but by the end of the series it was just unbelievable.
This was my favorite book out of the Protector of the Small series, and I think it was wonderfully crafted.
The characters, the conflict, Kel's frustration as she is forced to try and decide between her 'destiny' and her orders.
A huge chunk of this book follows Kel as she sets up a refugee camp and has to work out the daily details that go into running something like that.
That was my favorite part of the book, but I have an uncommon love of logistics and trying to figure out things like that.
Through Kelladry’s eyes she can see that those she looks up to are not omnipotent and are making the best decisions that they can.In this book you get to see some of the rest of the Tortallean world, and get to see that not all Scanarans are evil, and many are acting out of fear.I would recommend Tamora Pierce’s books to anyone who likes young adult fantasy which isn’t too dark and heavy.
the electrician i was working with today insisted on mocking me for rereading a book i have read a dozen times, and i kept responding by saying "but it's one of my favorites!" i don't know why people don't understand rereading books, but whatever- this book makes me incredibly happy, so sometimes i reread it when i need a pick-me-up.kel really comes into her own as a commander (and an adult) in this book.
this book also shows how well neal and owen grow up, which makes my heart happy.
(and by "heart" i mean "eyes" and by "joy" i mean "tears")i really cannot recommend these books enough.

2/4/15 buddy re-read with RachelI loved this.
Kel is such a strong character, and her world and perspective provides so much thoughtful commentary on many important themes.
The ending was a bit too easy, but still well enough developed to be forgiven.
The epilogue-type-thing that follows more than erased any critical thoughts from my mind.I have had such a wonderful time during this buddy read with Rachel, I am genuinely sad that it's come to an end :( but I will say...
Thank you, Rachel, for motivating me to pick these up again.
I've loved every second of the experience.
I like Pierce overall, but one thing really annoys me about her writing: Her main characters' assumed moral superiority over anyone who doesn't conform to her ideas of sexuality. The main character in this quartet assumes that anyone who objects to homosexuality, sex before marriage, and several others things is just ridiculous and uneducated. Without ever really explaining why--just that they must be backward. Fortunately this topic comes up very little in the books, so it wasn't overwhelming.Rating: PGish, but with some moral assumptions that I strongly disagree with (which must make me uneducated and backward, of course)
It wasn't too bad.
I didn't like how she got rid of the love interest.
It's not like we as humans don't move on when something falls through in the area of love.
:D I wish there was time in the book to get back on that track, but I guess there wasn't.
I thought the climax was a bit too short, but then again, it was in the middle grade section of the library.
:DAh well, not a bad series.
Didn't like the first or the last books, but rather enjoyed the middle two.
Added 2018: I still think this is largely true! The first Alanna book is just perfect, but as a series this is stronger. There's also a lot of really good stuff about the practical realities of being a woman in command.These are much better than the Alanna series. Better written, really solid on the horrors of war/the problems with the setup of the Tortall universe, and it's interesting to see Pierce go back to Alanna and Jonathan and show that they are imperfect, not necessarily likeable people.
Protector of the Small :') :') :')
A brilliant end to a brilliant series. I want to start from the beginning all over again! (And, just like the first book, it made me tear up in a good way.)
It's official- Kel is my favorite Pierce heroine thus far. I adored this series.
Owen of Jesslaw is squire to Lord Wyldon.Tobeis "Tobe" Boone is being beaten by his innkeeper master when Kel rescues him and installs him as her servant.
A number of the children want to learn to fight: Loesia, Meech will look on, Gydo Elder, Tobe, and Keon.Domitan of Masbolle is Neal's cousin and a sergeant in the King's Own. A friend of Kel's from her squire days.
Captain Elbridge is more impressed with Kel when he learns she's already fought one of the killing devices.
Irnai is a very young seer in the village next to Blayce's castle; she offers aid to Kel and her friends.
