https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097.Fast_Food_Nation
Not that the author would eat McDonalds everyday but that he would talk mostly about the unhealthiness of fast food.
He mainly talks about the greed, power, and evilness of fast food companies.
He talks about how our government is supposed to regulate and keep us safe from unhealthy meat and that it not only doesn't do that, but CAN'T do that, legally.
The USDA cannot recall meat that is unhealthy.
He discusses the hisory of fast food and the american west.
It doesn't become a witch hunt, this isn't "Hey, you know, Elie Wiesel is right, Nazi's are real sons of bitches!" (which is what I expect most people think after reading Night.
Really, it's rich old white men looking out for themselves (and who else are they going to look out for?)It's been a few years since I've read the book, so I could be wrong about this, but I'm going to say this book isn't even as harsh on the fast food industry as Supersize Me (A film which I refuse to see, because: Duh!
The book begins with the history of McDonalds which encompasses not only the corporate history but also the history of fast food and its supporting industries.
As I proceed, I find it hard to accept its two major themes: big corporations are the big bad wolf who feast on little people and the king of the pack is McDonalds.Although the author writes that he doesn't say McDonald and the fast food corporations are the roots of all American problems, he essentially implies so throughout the book.
On the same page, he mentions that fast food industries have high labour turnover and can afford only to hire people with questionable background.
Written on May 29, 2012:I am glad that I had a large Pizza and a KFC burger at the Delhi airport before I started this book. Adios fatty fries, triple-decker domes and cheesy discs, you will be missed. Ignorance is indeed bliss sometimes.Update: June 22, 2014I am happy to report that I have largely stuck to this. Ever since reading this I have virtually avoided this sort of trash and must have eaten a maximum of a couple of burgers and pizzas in the last two years (and that too most reluctantly, when unavoidable). Thanks, Schlosser.
It's not only a critique of fast food, the chemicals we are ingesting and the health problems we are facing, it is also critical of a system that allows exploitation of young, old and immigrant workers, and of the suburban sprawl that resulted from the eradication of efficient and environmentally friendly public transportation by the auto industry.
The author focuses his criticism on the states of California and Colorado when in reality the same strip malls with the same chain stores and miles of fast-food clusters and suburban sprawl exist all over the US.
I understand the human face helps a reader create meaning, but for me it occasionally felt contrived, particularly in the international settings.For me, there was an especially powerful moment of revelation when Schlosser points out the drawback of dealing with corporations, not local owners:"The nation's meatpacking firms, on the other hand, have proven themselves to be far less committed to remaining in a particular community.
(http://nutrition.mcdonalds.com/getnut...) You may be healthy in spite of the food, but not because of the food.Again, not saying I condone the choice--I have my once-a-year Shamrock shake, and an intermittent fry craving, proving just how great childhood marketing is and the lure of salty-sweet carb goodness.
But it did make me feel wary about eating fast food if I was traveling in US.This book of 3 years of research talks about the industry of fast food, and its consequences on people, animals, and nature.
The city of Colorado Springs, and some other places near it, are the example-centers for many stories within.This is not a story merely of dangers within food, and on treatment of animals, but also on people suffering because of it.
(hide spoiler)]The ending of the book shows the authors' optimistic views about the future of fast food industry; it might be different now.
As much as I'd love to dispute some of Schlosser's claims, I look around me and see evidence to support what he says about the amount of cheap food we eat and what it's doing to us.Contrary to popular opinion, this is not a book that vilifies fast food.
It's hard to go back to your favorite restaurant and order a hamburger after reading "What's in the Meat," or to complain about work after finishing "The Most Dangerous Job." Serious stuff.I do think Schlosser comes down way too hard on conservatives in the book, and he admits in the epilogue that to be fair, many liberals are guilty of the same sins.
Another title for this entertaining book could have been "Our disposable society: How our utter disrespect for our selves, each other and our environment created the world we live in today." The automobile's destructive force on American life was been well documented in other works.
But Schlosser extends that work specifically as it relates to the food industry.
Not just fast food.
Yes, fast food is bad for you.
The influence of fast food is so pervasive that it effects all aspects of our nation's food supply.
Our nation's food supply is now a full blown public health crises.
ExcellentThe last sentence of the book (that I appreciate a lot) : 'Despite all evidence to the contrary, I remain optimistic'.
Oh, yeah, and the food is gross too.I think by this point most people have heard of this book or the "Super Size Me" movie or many of the other pieces that have swarmed the media mind in the past decade.
Sure, he does bring up the quality of food (SPOILERS: It's gross), but he focuses a lot more on other areas: how these seemingly cheery companies treat their workers, their competitors, and the food industry itself.One of the images that stays with me is the life of a worker in a slaughterhouse - not because of seeing a cow gutted (though, admittedly, that sounds absolutely disgusting).
A lot of fast food companies aren't doing the "Super Size Me" thing anymore.
Schlosser takes us on a crash course in American history, and it all starts with McDonalds.
Almost immediately, fast food restaurants began mushrooming on the edges of freeway entrances, and America was never the same.
Not only does this loss of beauty affect our souls, our standards of living has gone down.
The choice of what world we wish to live in.
I recommend this book because these gory details and tragic histories could freeze into our brains and be a fit reminder to bypass these common and convenient foods and begin to make changes in our lives.
At the expense of peoples lives.
I could relate to this book because I lived in Greeley and I can relate to this book because I am not fond of fast food.
The book talks about the start of burger joints and how they grew to be such an influence in today's society.
The author discusses the life of workers and the working conditions in the meat packing plants.
I also learned about In and Out burger joint.
In and Out Burger purchases meat from local farmers.
They also pay their employees better than the popular burger joint.I enjoyed taking the tour with the author into the food industry's practices.
I particularly mean the chapter that begins with the little boy who dies after eating at a fast food restaurant.
Schlosser builds up a load of pathos to prove his point that fast food is so awful it kills children.
Then, in a cursory statement, Schlosser divulges that the boy had other problems and died of a cause unrelated to the food he ate.
I taught a research and writing class with this book, and most of my students were at first appalled by Schlosser's finding.
Then, after we analyzed his rhetorical techniques, they were appalled by Schlosser.
Although a little dated, this book takes a good look at the fast-food industry and what effect it has had on people's lives--starting with the history of how it all began.Some of the issues that Schlosser is concerned with here are: good nutrition, food safety, animal welfare, worker rights and sustainable agriculture. What also is of concern is the Americanization of food around the world, bringing food of questionable nutrition and its accompanying health issues, such as obesity and heart disease.#2016-aty-reading-challenge-week-47: a book with a type of food/drink in the title.
Mainly because the last 44% of the book (I read it on my Kindle) is taken up entirely by an enormous bibliography, photograph credits section and an incredibly in-depth index.I wasn't sad; by the 56% mark I'd had enough, to be honest.
Well, the only part of this book I did find a bit shocking was the section that dealt with some of the horrific injuries suffered by employees in meat packing factories in the US.
This being said, you probably won't get the desired effect from the book unless you're considerably less cynical than I am...Right!
The only part I enjoyed was when it talked about In-N-Out Burger and what a great employer they are and that John 3:16 is printed on the bottom of the cups.
When I went to an In-N-Out and the clerk handed me my cup, I immediately flipped it over and saw the John 3:16 and then showed my two friends.
The worker behind the counter asked what I was looking at and I showed him.
When he said that he had no idea that those words were under the cups, it made me happy to know that In-N-Out wasn't forcing their religious beliefs down their workers' throats.
For example, why do people often appear out of breath when they get out of the elevator?
He's sitting with a friend in a fancy restaurant, and (view spoiler)[the guy says that yes, much of their life is an illusion.
There are no elevators: people are swarming up and down the grillwork of the shafts like climbing apes.
His friend, who a moment ago looked like a healthy, successful, middle-aged scientist type, is revealed as a hideously deformed cripple.
(hide spoiler)]His friend looks at him in alarm.
This is one of those books that should open the eyes of most readers to the food and flavor industry in America. As with so many aspects of American life, Schlosser deftly examines how humans are studied and then manipulated into following our drives, both conscious and subconscious, and how those that profit from learning about our behavior, continue to do so. In reading this book, people will see food, production of food and the marketing and selling of food, in a new light.
I was surprised at how balanced this was! I'd heard about it and expected a start-to-finish diatribe against the fast food nation industry from top to bottom, but that wasn't the case. Schlosser's approach is more soft-touch than ham-fist, which is good, because I prefer my medicine to go down easy, not taste like acid.
I started reading this book after having lunch at a fast food restaurant....Have you ever been bored of cooking, would like to get away from stressful problem, trying to find a place where you can eat while your children can play, or trying to find a fast testable tasteful food?
But this first touch of fast food has sometimes become a ‘get-away’ path for me.After long hours of studying (or dance practice), I still remember of having late supper at “three letters” fast food restaurant down at College Station Road, Athens (GA) with friends.
So I was eating a Big Mac at a McDonald's in the town where I was going to college, while reading this book, when a woman walked over to me and asked me what I was reading.
(Let me tell you that I played football in college, and I've always had a few extra pounds on me: 5'10" 240lbs.; I was strong-side linebacker.) Anyways, she went on to ask why I would be reading this book in a McDonald's.
I should have asked her why she was so unsettled that I was reading this book while enjoying a Big Mac and chocolate shake, but I didn't.
The meatpacking industry comes off looking very malicious, but surprisingly Schlosser is somewhat light on his criticism fast food chains.
Schlosser argues that in fact fast food chains like In-And-Out and other companies making organic products provide decently priced foods without squeezing workers to death or being lacksadaisical with safety.
A point is also made that cheap food should not be our blind end goal.3) Turnover and low skill sounds bad for employers, but in the meatpacking and fast food industries, quick turnover and low-skilled workers are ideal in order to prevent having to provide benefits and also to prevent successful unionization.
Never been a fast food enthusiast, and this book further convinced me about it.
However, I need to note that Fast Food Nation is quite outdated since it has been written two decades ago.
Anyways, I can say that the author has done a good job to expose the truth about the fast food industry, and the book is very well researched, but overly meticulous sometimes that it got a little tedious.
Although the book is called Fast Food Nation, the parts that struck me the most were about meatpacking industry and its exploitation of its workers.
And then, when you run out of windows and realize your first instinct was a pretty good one, grab some of the broken glass and just go ahead and slash your wrists anyway.
How do people sleep at night knowing their wealth is built upon such textbook examples of man's inhumanity to man, let alone his inhumanity (or inbovinity) to cow?Earth's human headcount recently crossed the 7 billion mark, and this exploding population is a primary incentive for the wholesale mechanization of our food machine, the ruthless efficiency of production, discarding any and all concerns but quantity and profit.
So really, go ahead and read this, and maybe lay off the Prozac first, just to see if you can handle it without reaching for the relief offered by that jagged piece of glass.
Từ lịch sử hình thành đến khi tập đoàn này vươn ra toàn cầu.Rất nhiều góc khuất trong hoạt động kinh doanh của tập đoàn này được tác giả đề cập tới như:- Các cửa hàng của McDonald bị tấn công, cướp tiền nhiều hơn cả ngân hàng và hung thủ phần lớn là nhân viên cũ bất mãn với chính sách của công ty- Đồ ăn ở các cửa hàng ăn nhanh được sản xuất theo kiểu "dây chuyền lắp ghép" khiến cho chi phí giảm đi, trình độ lao động không cần cao (phần đa là học sinh, sinh viên, người lao động nhập cư trái phép) là đem lại lợi nhuận kếch sù cho tập đoàn.- Dây chuyền giết mổ bò, gà, lợn,...
That this book, unlike its spiritual ancestor The Jungle, has failed to kindle any noticeable change in public policy towards the production of meat in America is a grim reminder that today's meatpacking villains are even more vile, and have much more powerful friends, than Sinclair's.
In that sense, it dovetails very nicely with No Logo, and can be read as a detailed case study of Klein's thesis as it applies to the fast food industry.
Oh my GOD. You will never eat fast food again (or any processed food for tht matter). It is incredulous what food comapanies are getting away with - what they allow to get into the food they rpocess, the unscrupulous way they handle employees, the calaous way they treat consumers. Please read this book. Save yourself, your kids, our small farmers, and our planet. Put your money somehwere else.
The topics documented in this book have been meticulously researched. This book is filled with many more reasons for people to abstain from supporting the horrors of the meat industry.
Full disclosure: I am a vegetarian, and I do not eat fast food.
Anyway, so this book wasn't going to change my behaviour as there was nothing to change, but boy did it open my eyes.
If this is what you want to eat, I am sure it's probably easier to make it yourself.
All in all, a fascinating book that has opened my eyes to the human cost of fast food, and its effect on towns and cities.
I shudder to think how many more food regulations will bite the dust (burger?) now we have Mr Anti-Red Tape in the White House.
