https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765193.Amazing_Grace
"Grace was a girl who loved stories." From this simple sentence Mary Hoffman goes on to write an inspiring and positive picture book for young children.
Because Grace is a little girl who loves to imagine things, she "lives" her stories.
She revels in her fantasies.One day at school her teacher tells the class that they will be performing a play about Peter Pan. This idea is so exciting for Grace, and really fires up her imagination.
And with that in mind, I do have a rather huge problem with the fact that Grace is not only described as playing Hiawatha, but that she is also illustrated as an Indian chief in full tribal regalia, as many Native American and First Nations individuals find the mere concept of people (including children) playing "Indian" massively insensitive and insulting to their culture and background, their traditions.I think that Amazing Grace would have been a much more global, and definitely a much more encouraging and sensitive offering without that little addition.
The description and depiction of Grace playing "Indian" also makes me strongly hesitant to even remotely consider recommending this otherwise excellent picture book to Native American or First Nations children (which is a real pity, because Amazing Grace does have an inspiring, essential and necessary message that should be for everyone).
This was a cute story about being able to follow your dreams. Anyone is capable of anything no matter their sex and race. My students enjoyed this book and I loved the message behind it.
“Amazing Grace” is a truly inspiring story from the mind of Mary Hoffman along with illustrations by Caroline Binch and it is about how an optimistic girl named Grace tries out for the role of Peter Pan even though her classmates thought that she cannot be Peter Pan.
Caroline Binch’s illustrations are extremely beautiful and realistic, especially of the image of Grace herself as she wears pigtails and she always has a toothy smile on her face every time she acts out her favorite scenes, which are equally beautiful as Grace is dressed in different kinds of costumes in her roles.“Amazing Grace” is a brilliant book about believing in yourself and going for your dreams no matter what race or gender you are and this book will definitely be an inspirational story for children who want to go for their dreams.
A wonderful story about a young girl who is encouraged to be anything she wants to be.
I greatly enjoyed the message of this book, and then was confused when I came here to Goodreads and saw reviews mentioning how Grace was pictured as playing Hiawatha in the story, as my book contained no illustration of mention of this at all.
I then did a search and found that for the 25th Anniversary edition (which is what I have), that illustration was removed from US copies of the book, so apparently the complaints about that specific illustration were listened to and it was removed.
Here is a story about this issue:https://americanindiansinchildrenslit...
Grace is one amazing girl with an incredible imagination!
Sometimes alone, other times with her cat and supportive family.
and how I loved her family, encouraging her and lettign her imagination thrive!!
Even when others put her down her family finds a way to lift her back up and help her defy the odds.
This was such a up-lifting book!
The art is well done, and just goes to show the depth or Grace's creativity and lifestyle.
Betwwen the words spoken and pictures given you get a real feel for the times, setting and way in which Grace grows up.
I highly recommend this book!
It follows the story of a young black girl - Grace - who loves stories and using her imagination.
When finding out her class were going to perform the play of Peter Pan she wanted to play Peter.
This gave Grace the confidence to do anything she wanted to if she put her mind to it and she did.
I would personally use this in a KS1 class and look at it in depth with the children questioning their understanding and developing their awareness on such a relevant topic.
An inspiring book about a young girl with an incredible imagination and love of stories. Grace learnt that she could be anything/anyone she wanted to be if she put her mind to it, regardless of her race, gender or what others said. The book subtly tackles modern day racial and gender prejudices from a child's perspective.
It's only one page of the book, but is still a problem.The second part of this book is the action: where Grace wants to play Peter Pan in the school play, but other kids tell her she can't because she's black and a girl.
Through encouragement from her mom and grandmother and the example of a black ballerina (this is a very woman-centred book, actually now that I think of it), of course, Grace learns she can be anything she wants to be and gets the part of Peter Pan in the school play because she rocks.
A wonderful story that starts with a young girl that loves reading and links reading with other activities such as drama. I felt it really demonstrated a passion for reading. However, it also covers topical topics such as inequalities and how children deal with this in their lives. I can imagine some of the rich conversations you could get from discussing this book. This book was wonderful to read.
'Amazing Grace' by Mary Hoffman, tells the story of a girl called Grace who has a vivid imagination and loves to recreate famous roles and include her family in the fun.
'Amazing Grace' explores issues of sexism and racism in a child friendly way in situations that children can relate to.
The various parts Grace plays in the story could also be acted out and the stories they are related to could be read to the children and explored further.
'Amazing Grace' is an optimistic story that instils in children the fact that they can achieve anything they put their minds to whoever they are and however they look.
One day in school, their teacher was going to put on the play of Peter Pan and Grace wanted to be Peter Pan along with other the children.
A couple of her classmates told that she couldn’t be Peter Pan because she was a girl and she was black.
With the loving support from her mother and grandmother, they told her that could be any thing she wanted.
During the audition, every thought Grace should be Peter Pan because of how well she did.
This is a great story to read to children in any setting.
Grace is disappointed when her friends tell her she can't be Peter-Pan in the school play because she's a girl and she's African American! With the help of her grandmother, Grace wins over the class in auditions! With hard work and determination, you can do anything!
In class they were doing the play, Peter Pan, and Grace wanted to be the best part of the play and be the lead character, Peter.
The use of character in this book is effective because it helps a minority of people, both African American and women, relate to situations such as these.
The style of the art was also a good choice because the used a more realistic art form and I feel that that helps the reader connect to the character more and gives them the ability to place themselves in this book.
An empowering story for any child, or for that matter, any person who's been told they can't do something for whatever reason.
I read this story to a year 2 class of mostly white children and they understood all the issues surrounding race and equality.
Grace had a dream and she chased that dream.
Why shouldn't she be Robin Hood in the play if she wanted to be?
It also touches on the reactions of her extended family and how they respond in different ways to the things Grace is told in a realistic way.
It's a thought provoking and moving story.
I needed this book.
More than my son needed me to read it to him.
I'm so happy that Grace had an excellent support system at home, encouraging her to try out for the Peter Pan role, although her classmates thought otherwise ("You're a girl, a girl can't be Peter Pan" or "You're black.
I love the grandmother telling her that she could be whatever she wanted to be.
Honestly, this is my first time reading a children's book by a black author.
Hopefully I'll have the opportunity to continue this, and teach my son that he can be whatever he wants to be.
A book on my want to read list that I can finally take off. I think this story is wonderful as it focuses on all the things young Garce can do! It’s wonderful to see ethnic diversity and such a great story with it. It tackles the difficult issues such as sexism and racism that can be seen in many classrooms and shows the strength that Grace and her family display. I especially love how at the end the children have realised their mistakes and learnt, a wonderful message.
Text-To-WorldI really think that this book is Text-To-World because Grace was told that she couldn't be Peter Pan because she was a girl and because she was black. But let's think about when Hillary Clinton was running for president. Even though she didn't win, people kept saying that she couldn't even win the nomination votes actually run president. But she fooled alot of people. I think that this book is saying that you could do whatever you put your mind to.
"You can do anything you want, if you put your mind to it."
Lovely story with a positive and important message. I think it's an important book to have in a KS1 classroom.
A lovely story about how anyone can aim for anything.
This is an excellent book! Read it!
Text-to-Teaching -ConnectionIn the story Amazing Grace is a wonderful book about teaching self-confidence to your students.
The lesson that I can teach my students is to believe in themselves no matter where they come from what skin color religion or physical size they are.
After they have completed their picture let everyone tell a positive thing that they see in their pictures.
I would encourage my students to understand that they all are individuals and they have a positive influence on each other and in our class, we uplift one another.
This book has a strong underlining message that teaches children that they can be whatever they want to be. Diversity is incorporated throughout the story's characters and is also present in the near-realistic illustrations. This book teaches children to steer clear of gender and racial stereotypes- Grace got the part because she was the best at being Peter Pan in real life, not because she looked like the Peter Pan from the book. This story also incorporates a variety of vocabulary words and elaborates on common routines, activities, and places children are familiar with.
Author, Mary Hoffman and illustrator, Caroline Binch team up to create a story that explores themes of modern day racial and gender prejudices in the form of a school play.
The story features Grace, a young African American girl who loves stories.
I would list this book at a second-third grade lever for read aloud.
This book would be an excellent resource to use when talking about women’s rights or African American rights.
It’s such an incredible story with strong themes—it would be interesting to have students discuss these themes after reading it.
Do students agree that Grace could be Peter Pan?
With the help and support of her mother and grandmother Grace later realises that, despite what other people say, she is able to achieve anything – as her grandmother remarks at the end of the story “If Grace put her mind to it – she can do anything she wants.”'Amazing Grace' is an optimistic story that instils in children that they can achieve anything if they put their minds to it, regardless of whoever they are and however they look.
The book is not limited to key stage two, as it could also be read with younger children in the foundation stage or key stage one; as the illustrations are beautiful and the story is engaging and easy to understand.The book sends a simplistic message as well as addressing issues relating to race and gender.
Before the reader opens up the book, there is a sense of welcoming and inviting feelings due to the illustration of the smiling main character, Grace, on the front cover and the calming blue of the backdrop.
The front cover is inviting because of the way that Grace is depicted she is seen as relatable to the stereotypical child.Through the use of realistic pictures illustrated by Caroline Binch, Amazing Grace gives the reader the great opportunity to really put themselves into the book with Grace.
Grace, who wants to act as Peter Pan in a school play, is told by her peers, Raj and Natalie, she cannot because of her gender and colour.
This book highlights how discrimination of race and gender can occur in everyday situations, shown in the perspective of young children, in this case Grace.
Children learn from very young what they can and cannot do, due to this ‘stereotype’ of what they see and hear; which can as a result lead to discrimination.
It is now a book that I enjoy reading with my daughter and nieces."Grace was a girl who loved stories".
Grace just loved stories" (A bit like my daughter!).
you can't be Peter Pan, he wasn't black!" But grace kept her hand up!
wanted to be" and indeed she "was an amazing Peter Pan".This story touches on racism very subtly.
It shows it in an unconscious aspect, through the character of Natalie, who eventually expressed that Grace "was great" during the auditions for the part of Peter Pan. This is an excellent book to use in KS1 or KS2 if tackling racism and sexism among young people.
In the book Amazing Grace Grace’s family consists of Grace, her mother and her grandmother.
Grace’s school is putting on the play Peter Pan. When Grace, who loves acting, says she wanted to be Peter in the play children tell her she can’t because she is a girl and because she is black.
It does not seem to phase them that the character Peter Pan is a white boy.
Grace does what she wants and what makes her happy even if others don’t understand.With her grandmothers help Grace realizes that she is like Rosalie the black ballerina.
Grace does an amazing job in the school play as Peter.
