https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565319.Fire_in_the_Lake
The author goes to pains to explain how the Vietnamese peasant who happily grew rice on his patties and raised his family with little or no outside interference, was pushed off his land (by French colonizers and then by American military and the South Vietnamese army) losing contact with his sustenance as well - and more importantly for his hate - with his ancestors, so the well to draw upon was deep and common to a majority of the population.
This book is like drinking from a firehose!I am taking the entire year of 2007 to study Vietnam.
"Fire in the Lake" is my 7th book and thank god I read the other ones first.
There is so much information in this book that you will be blown away by just the shere volume of the history and politics surrounding Vietnam.
I don't suggest reading this book over any others.
Better to read Stanley Karnow's Vietnam: A History!I have 6 more books on Vietnam to read for 2007 and I know that this book alone will be more of a historical lesson than all the others combined.
Having lived through the era, I had a naive hope that I would have some basic understanding of events and would be able to follow the author's arguments reasonably well.
And, unlike everything else I've read or heard about Vietnam, this book is not at all concerned with American soldiers and their experiences or even that much with the reaction to the war at home.
How could I have lived through this era and know so little about the Vietnam war?
And so, it seems, more reading is needed before I can say whether this book was insightful or merely a useful irritant, goading me on to reaching a better understanding.
One day in the late 1970s, while attending the University of North Dakota, I was told by an older student who had spent his youth and his innocence as an American GI "busting his hump" across South Vietnam, that this was the best book ever written about America's involvement in Southeast Asia.
"Fire in the Lake: The Vietnamese and the Americans in Vietnam" is thoughtful, incisive, and passionate while maintaining a sense of detached credibility.
Much of what I thought I knew about American involvement in Vietnam at the time, and in the decades since, was woefully incomplete until now.
All of us had problems with commitment – I could not commit to a heavy, political treatise with an ending too well known & neither the French nor us nor the Vietnamese could commit to resolving what they knew too well, would have a bad ending.Now, while I am simplifying to an extreme degree here, what we had in Nam was a series of shot-gun weddings that were doomed from the very beginning.
Tossing aside that analogy for a moment it was more like a bad drug habit – Viet Nam was the user; the French & the U.S., the narcotic.
I added one star to my review of this book after reading several of the Good Read reviews below.
It is my belief that this book will not age well because it was written at a time when all the relevant archival material would have still been classified.
Eventually a better history will be written.
Moreover she had read very carefully and understood all the sociological studies on colonialism/imperialism.Future historians will have more documents to consult and should speculate less.
However, FitzGerald's speculation is based on deep reading and extensive experience with the country.
An extraordinary work of history and sociology.
Frances Fitzgerald writes with rigour, authority and erudition and illuminates the reasons why America's involvement in Vietnam was always doomed.
In the first section of the book, Fitzgerald looks at the vietnamese through their history and culture, and how the NLF was able to align its programme with both.
By contrast the GVN could never take root and American indulgence towards successive dsyfunctional governments meant that the more resources it poured in, the more dysfunctional and irresponsible the local government became.
The extraordinary detail of the book however begins to weary the reader because so much of it is now trivial in hindsight.
There is a lot of high quality, first hand information here obscured by a cloud of pretension and overly indirect language.
I was also underwhelmed by her overly cultural interpretation of Vietnamese actions during the war.
Often things that could easily be explained by mere rational self-interest were chalked up to the utterly foreign and un-Western way of thinking of the Vietnamese.
On the other hand I appreciated her uncompromising condemnation of US policy later in the book.
Other writers, even ones critical of the US, tend to portray the whole conflict as merely an unfortunate mistake rather than one of the major crimes of the 21st Century.
Wonderfully insightful and engagingly written book about the delusions that led US leaders to commit American ground and air forces to war in Vietnam.Triple Crown winner: Pulitzer Prize, National Book Award and Bancroft Prize. Not too many of them.
Written as the Vietnam War was ongoing, it takes the time to examine the Vietnamese and their national psyche without losing perspective. I assumed that it would reflect the immediate bias and make assumptions of reader knowledge, but the author avoided that.
How could the most powerful nation in world history fail to subdue a small, rural country that had already spent more than a century under colonial rule?Most of the answers I've heard to this question relate to the broader context of the Cold War. The support from the Soviet Union and China was decisive, or domestic dissent from the Communist-sympathizing left forced a premature American withdrawal.In contrast, Fitzgerald focuses almost exclusively on Vietnamese politics, history, and culture to explain why the war was always unwinnable.
The Nguyen family held the South with their capital and emperor in Saigon and, later, in Hue. This partition further exacerbated the breaking down of the simple family-village-emperor model because now, with two emperors, the Confucian construct was broken.These regional differences were very much in play during the Viet Nam War: in the North, a highly disciplined governmental hierarchy (with Ho Chi Minh standing in for an emperor), a disciplined army, and a commitment to community welfare; in the South a corrupt family-centric government with little interest in the general welfare in spite of the populist rhetoric of the Ngo regime.
This is an excellent work on the society in Vietnam and why the US did not have a chance. While it shows that militarily, we were winning, it shows that failures in the winning the war meant that Vietnam was unable to field a competent government in the South. The Viet Cong did not lose because the US and its allies offered no viable alternative. Quite frankly, there appears to have been no way to win this one. Three are great insights into the Eastern mind. Loved it.
From vietnamwar.net"Frances FitzGerald was not quite 32 years of age when her first book, Fire in the Lake: The Vietnamese and the Americans in Vietnam (1972), was published to immediate and extraordinary praise.
TIME magazine was impressed that she had achieved "so fresh a blend of compassion and intelligence," and even the conservative National Review, which loathed it, predicted accurately that her book would "become gospel for the anti-war movement." The young woman whose career had just taken such a remarkable turn was a journalist with a remarkable family and personal background.
More than half of her book was devoted to explaining how the National Liberation Front (NLF or the Viet Cong, to most Americans) had adapted itself to Vietnam's unique culture and traditions.
Parts of this are extremely satisfying.
Parts get tediously mired in detail.
Perhaps she strived too hard to appear impartial, and thus ends up being an advocate for the Vietnamese.
The author chides him for failing to see the contradiction in his own attitude (offering free help....which actually wasn't free: gratitude was expected), or his very presence as a sign of all the problems in Vietnam.
However, the author fails to mention that the host was also projecting the macro problem onto a singular situation (this doctor = america).
In this case, the objectification was happening from both sides, and the failing in both attitudes should be pointed out.
This book is superb.
I'd never heard of the book or of Fitzgerald before (not my fault, he says hopefully: I was born in 1983), but picked it up in advance of a 3-week visit to Vietnam.
As I passed through places like Saigon, the Mekong Delta, and Hue, it was fascinating to look up from the pages of my book to see just how much has changed in the intervening years.
For anyone wanting a better understanding of the Vietnam War -- and a better perspective on the folly and hubris Washington and the Pentagon still demonstrate in Iraq and Afghanistan today, read this book.
There are a couple of different ways in which this book could have been organized, and it wasn't organized along either line.The book could have been organized in essays.
Then, each chapter/essay would have an argument and be seeking to demonstrating something.
This book didn't do that.The book could have been organized chronologically, working from the earliest history of Vietnam onward.
The book comes closest to being organized chronologically but it isn't even that.
It jumps around all over the place.I hope to read more books about Vietnam, but this is most definitely not a good beginner's book for Vietnam.
An outstanding book of history that remains relevant years after it was published.
Fitzgerald skewers the American approach to war in Vietnam.
She shows how poorly the country understood the war it was fighting.
They misunderstood the role of the S Vietnamese government, the role of ARVN and the motivation to join the NLF.
In a severe case of mirror imaging, they acted as if the Vietnamese were just itching to turn into Junior Americans.
The subservient role is critical, as the the Americans undertook essentially colonialist attitudes.The relevance should be quite clear.
This book could be turned slightly to be an indictment of US policy in Iraq and Afghanistan.
This impressive, magisterial book on the Vietnam War seems like a suitable end, for now, to this particular reading phase of mine. It's quite a remarkable book and incredibly information-rich but you pay a price: it's very dense and not a straightforward read. It does strike me as entirely worthy of its Pulitzer.
It's hard to rate this book - it's very well written, and engaging, and thought-provoking. But it's really really long, and not as timely as it was when it first came out. At the time, I'm sure I'd rate it higher, but now it's a book I put down, having exhausted my interest in the inner workings of small Viet Nam villages in the 1960s after 400 pages.
Fascinating read even after more than forty years since publication. In 1972 the author couldn't foresee the disappointment and misery (not to mention death toll) the take-over by North Vietnam would later cause. So politically it seems sort of naive left wing, although the rest of the book, the historical and cultural content is very sophisticated.
Rereading this magesterial treatment of the Vietnam War. It has the reputation of being one of the best books on the war despite its having been released 3 years before the war "officially" ended. It remains the best book on the war I've ever read (with Noam Chomsky's Reconsidering Camelot coming in second).
1) Confucianism is so alien to the way my western brain thinks.2) The Vietnam war was some fucked up shit in ways I didn't even know. Like, surreal culture-ignorant ways. 3) This book was dense as fuck.
Absolutely fascinating. I'm glad I didn't look at the title page prior to completely reading the book -- my "priors" might have changed my reading of the book had I realized when it was written. I can certainly see how this informed the design of the eponymous game by GMT.
3.5 stars. In her usual thoroughness, Frances Fitzgerald embraces the whole of Vietnam under French rule, the strength of Buddhism, and ancestor worship. The importance of this country to the United States, the high cost in dollars and in lives is aptly described. Having been a boy crazy teen, and a young college student I was too immature to pay attention to a war that was viewed each night at the dinner table. Even though this book was completed in 1972, the outcome seemed predictable. No one ever dreamed of it’s reunification.
Forty years ago in 1978 I first read "Fire in the Lake." This remains a disturbing reread. Fitzgerald's outline of American's failures in Viet Nam can easily apply to this nation's approach to Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria. Dismal and disconcerting.
Great book but so long I don't have time to finish it.
Fifty years gone and it still hurts.
The second and third parts of this book were insightful for me and spoke to our present situation as the wars we have started still rage around the world.
