https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24958623-the-sussex-downs-murder
John Bude’s William Meredith returns in The Sussex Downs Murders.
Unlike so many detective novel protagonists, Meredith heads down plenty of dead-ends — just as must be the case in real life; still, he tenacious and hard-working.
Therefore, the book — despite Meredith’s annoying lack of imagination — still merits four stars.And John Bude gives one of the best recipes for a good mystery, out of the mouth of Superintendent Meredith: As for the crime itself, choose something neat but not gaudy.
Things don’t work that way in real life.
John Rother, his younger brother William, and William's wife Janet live at Chalklands, a farm house on the Sussex Downs.
Relations between the two brothers are not always harmonious for they are very different men:"John was bluff, rubicund, a stocky, rather loud-voiced, hail-fellow-well-met type of man; William slim, tall, and sensitive.
William Rother quickly becomes the leading suspect in his brother's murder.
Meredith forms more than theory of the crime and actually considers more than one suspect.
This is a good, entertaining mystery and I would be interested in reading more by this author.
John Bude created the character of Superintendent Meredith to be a man who was so entirely human and normal that readers can relate to him immediately.
I really enjoyed the fact that the author had his detective work the case out loud while discussing it with others so that I, as the reader, understood where he was headed in his thinking and why.
Lovely, just lovely for readers who like to be a part of the solving of the mystery.
Meredith's conversation with the garage owner was especially good for a chuckle.Trying to figure out what had happened to John Rother involved untangling a snarl of times, places, what witnesses actually saw, and who to believe.
This is a classic English detective story (first published in 1930) which will appeal to those who enjoy methodically spotting and solving clues, whilst avoiding red herrings.
It’s also a book to be enjoyed for its setting in the Sussex Downs of Southern England; where the action takes place roughly between Amberley, Steyning, Storrington, Shoreham, Angmering and Littlehampton.
The mere thought, in 2016, of light occasional road traffic is a yearningly liberating dream.
Descriptive language paints scenes, dialogue dresses actions, investigations are conducted in good heart and with much thought.
There were some interesting twists and turns, and I appreciated the thorough exploration of every line of inquiry.
I was a bit disappointed with the treatment of female characters, though I imagine much of that can be chalked up to the time period in which it was written.
Still, it's surprising for a main character's spouse to go unnamed for the duration of a novel, especially when his son is referred to by name on several occasions.If you enjoy classic British mysteries, you'll most likely enjoy this one, too.Note: I received a digital galley of this book through NetGalley.
A fairly typical classical British mystery novel meaning the characters are a bit stereotypical, the dialogue a bit Pollyannish and there will be a puzzle and that puzzle will be complex. But, it's a good puzzle and a fast and enjoyable read. So, find yourself a comfortable chair and relax and let yourself drift back to a simpler time and hopefully you will be able to enjoy the couple of hours you get to spend there.
Superintendent Meredith investigates a mysterious affair set in Sussex in which two brothers get involved in intrigue that ends with death on the Sussex Downs.John and William Rother live together at Chalkdown Farm along with William's wife Janet.
Superintendent Meredith, who had, shortly before the disappearance, been transferred from the north to Sussex, is called in and the investigation begins.There are not many characters in the story but all of them come under suspicion, particularly when human bones are discovered on Chalklands' farmland.
Although the story does dance around on one spot this seems justifiable in the way the crimes (and clues) unfold.
This is probably a better image of real police investigation that a linear plot.The stereotyping of one character (sign of the times?) became rather irritating, the son is utterly unbelievable, and don't let's mention the local accents...!
These things really spoilt this book for me.
And I'm not a fan of the detailed explanation at the end of detective stories, I always feel they make us readers look a bit foolish, but I know they are part of the style in those days.
Set in Sussex Downs in the 1930 and being released as a Classic British mystery. Fragments of human bones begain appearing in lime deposits. As the police investigates the story keeps changing holding the reader's attention. I found it hard to put down even though I was sure I knew the answer.Disclosure: I received a free copy from Poisoned Pen Press through Netgalley for an honest review. I would to thank them for the opportunity to read and review this book. The opinions are my own.
John Rother and his brother William are the joint owners of Chalkland’s Farm and flourishing lime industry.
Soon, however, labourers working with lime from the Chalkland’s kilns find human bones in the mix, and Inspector Meredith has the proof that John Rother is dead, his body dismembered and disposed of in the fiery hot furnace below the farm.
When Meredith is ready to arrest William, his body is discovered at the foot of the chalk cliff-an apparent suicide.
Meredith painstakingly follows every possible clue-most leading to dead ends.
A great read for all lovers of detective fiction.
John Bude was the pseudonym of Ernest Gilmore (1901-1957) who was a co-founder of the Crime Writers' Association.
The wonderful art deco cover was enough to make me pick the book up in Waterstones.The setting is pretty much my own locale - the Sussex Downs, featuring Bramber, Steyning, Washington, Findon, Cissbury Ring, Chanctonbury Ring and the police headquarters in Lewes.A classic detective novel featuring Superintendent Meredith and his sidekick Hawkins, who use old-fashioned police work bereft of computers, tablets and mobile 'phones to investigate the disappearance of John Rother, a local farmer and owner of lime kilns (you might have to Google that!).
Is John's disappearance more sinister?
My old stooping ground so I had to love it and I did. I do love these British Library Crime Classics too like tea and crumpets with hot melting butter - yummy. They make you use the old grey matter which I do so rarely and this tale had me beat. And, I love the way it could never have been the lady's fault and she got way scott free. Those olden days - don't you just love 'em. Toast
Another good read from British Library Crime Classicshttps://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
Inspector Meredith—promoted to superintendent at the end of the previous book, The Lake District Murder—is assigned this complex investigation, and he begins to untangle the clues that will solve this case.What I really liked about the novel was Meredith’s investigation style—as a whodunit murder without a corpse, the book is very much about who committed this act and how, and Meredith finds himself up for the challenge.
Nor is any information withheld—the reader is always kept within the loop when Meredith finds a clue.In the excellent introduction, Martin Edwards points out that this was the novel where John Bude began to hit his stride, displaying a more complex sense of plotting by throwing in more twists and turns and shifting suspicion between the characters.
Seeing as this is set in my local area, it was a dead cert that I was going to find this an interesting book and it was wonderful to read about the small villages before the build up of homes and major roads.
It is great to have some background and history of the author but so frequently they seem to stray into giving some pointers (read as spoilers) about the story.
It was a magnificent view, expansive yet somehow intimate; the chequered fields, dotted with isolated, red-tiiled barns and homesteads, with here and there a tree -edged road winding between the pasturage."
Very soon Inspector Meredith seems to think that William Rother may be involved.
However they add to the sense of reality and also contain a lot of humour in places.It is refreshing to read a murder mystery which is based in an era before modern forensic methods such as the use of DNA.
There are plenty of subtle twists in the Meredith is thinking regarding who is guilty.
As does Janet, wife of William.Then the mystery of the type-written letter and confession.
I will certainly make time to read other John Bude novels in the future.
Naturally his nearest and dearest come under suspicion especially as the village in which they live believes that John and his sister-in-law Janet are closer than they should be and William his brother is known not always to see eye to eye with him.This is an interesting story and the clues are all there to what actually happened but Meredith, like the reader, may struggle to work out where the truth lies.
I also thought the short interactions between Meredith and his son are very convincing and amusing.If you want well written crime stories with interesting and carefully constructed plots as well as believable characters then try this British Library Crime Classic series - they are worth reading.
A pleasure to read from sort to finish full of local detail some of which is long gone such as the slow local accents and the way of life. A page turner of a story, which, although as a frequent reader of crime fiction I was able to guess the explanation ahead of Meredith, was very cleverly plotted and written. So much incidental detail of things which may have been commonplace when the book was written now only add to the historical interest of the story. Great cameos of some incidental characters. I could immediately imagine these people.

Yet another great yarn from the British Library Crime Classics. Theses books take the reader back to when crime was not sexed-up and over-the-top shocking. The whole demeanor of the story, be it the setting, characters and way of life makes for an enjoyable read and you can really get a good rapport with our sleuth. Highly recommend this for someone who wants a gentle who dun-nit.
I really, really enjoyed this book. A police procedural par excellence. Very much in the Freeman Wills Crofts style of the tenacious detective plugging away at the case. Well reviewed here by others. Well done The British Library for resurrecting John Bude and others in this series. Hopefully they will publish some more of Bude's quite prolific output. Brilliant stuff! Highly recommended.
A moderately entertaining detective story. the detective, superintendant meredith, is qutie a pleasant character, but the mystery is rather easy to figure out, it is obvious well before the end what has happened. And the characters of the suspects are not very well done, you don't really get to know them very well.
Unfortunately very dated and I guessed the ending. I only bought it because it's set near where I live but for me this wasn't enough to carry the story.
That aside I found this hard work and from half way started skipping pages just to find out who done it.
Fortunately I then discovered that the last chapter is where the Inspector explains the whole thing from start to end (to a crime writer) so by skipping the last third entirely and reading this final chapter I was able to find out all I wanted to know - fantastic!
Whereas the author's Cornish Coast Murder is a gentle easy read, the Sussex Downs Murder, like the Lake District Murder, is bogged down in procedure and probably a hundred pages too long.
Very enjoyable classical crime that will be pleasurable reading for most cosy crime readers. Lots of twists and turns, some humour and written in a style that is easy to read. Both this novel and The Cornish Coast Murder are my favourite Bude books that have been reproduced by the British Library Crime Classics series (5 in total). I only hope that Bude wrote other interesting books and if so that this series gets a move on in reissuing them along with more Miles Burton titles. Keep up the good work in bringing back these lost treasures.
The second book in John Bude's Superintendent Meredith series.
Murders, lime kilns, disappearing characters, and much more.This was a wonderful read!
You know you know what the truth is, and then you know you don't, and then you know you do, and then....
It was Golden Age or classic British mysteries that won me over in my early 20s and it's such a pleasure to find these 'not available to me back then' mysteries decades later.
I think it's the true puzzle aspect of these books that I enjoy so much.
hahaha If that is your thing, do try some of these British Library Crime Classics.
I wanted to read this book because I live in the area of Sussex where the action is set. The introduction also stated it was an ingenious and highly enjoyable detective novel. I wouldn't go quite as far as that.... It is dated and has an absurdly far fetched and convoluted plot. I enjoyed reading it as a historical novelty and for the language of the era, but the storyline is preposterous and the characters are quite unbelievable and two dimensional.
3.5 stars. I enjoyed the mystery and that the plot revolves around finding actual evidence. So many mysteries hinge on conjecture. I figured out what was happening long before the detective and thought his continuing obtuseness was a bit contrived toward the end. And the wrap up was rather rushed compared to the pacing of the rest of the book. But I was ready for it to wrap up too at that point so it’s just as well. Overall I enjoyed reading the book!
Written in the 1930s, this detective story reminded me of The Thin Man, but with a lot less alcohol. I read the whole book in an evening, and it held my interest all the way through, not least because it takes place exactly where I've been living for the last two months. One of my favorite parts was the elderly aunt telling the police detective how stupid he was. To sum up, a great little read on a rainy winter night in Sussex, England.
A possible love triangle between two brothers is the base for this classic murder mystery. It is set in the beautiful rural setting of Sussex, England. Superintendent Meredith is assigned to investigate and he is baffled by the disappearance and possible murder of one of the brothers. He must discover if and how the murder was accomplished and who was the culprit. The author was a prolific writer of mysteries during the golden age of British mysteries.
