https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3028.Economics_in_One_Lesson
The increase in income both in terms of more jobs and more profits generates revenue for the government that more than pays for the cost of the bridge even without raising taxes.
A company looks into the possibility of building a bridge across the valley thinking it might be a good investment opportunity.
Companies are actively looking to invest and grow new businesses, so we anticipate that jobs will come slowly but gradually.
To attract people to build this bridge where the economy has other jobs on offer, it has to offer salaries over and above what the private sector is offering.
5.0 STARS ALL THE WAY for this TERRIFIC book that I consider ESSENTIAL READING for anyone interested in understanding the "free market" theory that government intervention in the markets, no matter how well meaning the intent, almost always leads to negative consequences down the road. Hazlitt, a prolific author and champion of "free markets" begins the book with the following lesson of Economics:  The art of economics consists of looking not merely at the immediate but at the longer effects o
However, it ignores the "unseen" consequences.Alternatively, the “good” economist, Hazlitt argues, takes a wider and longer term perspective and says to the “bad” economist “your analysis is limited to that which can be presently seen and takes no account of the longer term impact.” What is not seen is the shopkeeper who spent $250 on the new glass no longer has that $250 to spend on something else.
Those that simply take from one group (through taxes, tariffs, subsidies or credit) and give to another in an attempt to affect the way markets work do not positively effect ALL GROUPS and usually lead to unseen and negative consequences down the road.
It can be useful in case you want something handy to bang over an economic nit-wit's head on short notice.
After all, any book that promises to reduce an entire discipline to ‘one lesson’ should not expect to have much more effectiveness than a poorly aimed sledge hammer.Of course, there is a case for reading a book like this.
Firstly, it might have been useful and even an essential book back then.
Sometimes a book needs to come along that takes a point of view and is not shy of an argument, and of drilling in a single pov to the point of exhaustion.
When viewed in this light, Hazlitt, like so many others, concludes that government intervention creates more problems than it fixes, and free markets are the best answer to producing and distributing resources.
So government policy should be direct, not to imposing more burdensome requirements on employers, but to following policies that encourage profits, that encourage employers to expand, to invest in newer and better machines to increase the productivity of workers—in brief, to encourage capital accumulation, instead of discouraging it—and to increase both employment and wage rates.”“The belief that labor unions can substantially raise real wages over the long run and for the whole population is one of the great delusions of the present age.
If you want to read about Austrian economics and hear about how Keynesian economists are out there in the night, conspiring to tax you and build useless bridges for giggles, then read this book. If you know anything about economics and think about what you're reading, you'll see an agenda. Many generalizations and exaggerations are made to portray advocates of Keynesian economics as moronic and simple-minded.Hazlitt doesn't say the government takes money from the rich and give to the poor; he says they tax everybody in order to give money to a select few who profit at everyone else's expense.
For a book that was written so long ago, this book is amazingly relevant to today.
It clearly explains how things like stimulus packages, government subsidies, nationalization, currency inflation etc., aren't, and can't be, magic solutions that fix the economy.
It gives examples of times these types of things have been tried in the past and haven't worked and why they won't work today and will never work.
If you are skeptical of the hundreds of billions of dollars being printed and shuffled around from tax payers to businesses, but can't quite explain exactly why it's wrong, this book is a great way to solidify your thoughts.
آسیب پذیرترین افراد جامعه هم بجای اینکه در بطن علم اقتصاد باشند، برچسب قربانی می خورند که می بایست تنها با آنها همدلی کرد و کوشش تا نقشی مولد در جای دیگر بگیرند (فصل بیست و پنج) با چنین منطقی بدیهی است که هر که مانع کارکرد آزادانه اقتصاد شود، مانند اتحادیه کارگری (فصل بیست) حتما سوءنیت دارد یا فاسد استسه - رویکرد خاص نویسنده، که اسمش را لزوما یک نوع ایدئولوژی اقتصادی خاص نمی گذارم، منظر یک بازیگر خاص اقتصاد، یعنی منظر "صاحب سرمایه"است که نگاه بی طرفانه به مناسبات اقتصادی را از بین می برد و می تواند مولد نگاه ایدئولوژیک باشد (فصل بیست و یکم).
In fact, we are shown the exact opposite in the examples used to ‘prove’ the counter-productive nature of unions seeking better pay…I’m going to work my way though what I think is one of the counter-intuitive laws discussed in this book, Ricardo’s theory of comparative advantage or why free trade is always good and anything that interferes with free trade (import restrictions, tariffs or import replacement strategies) is always bad.I want to start by saying that I think there is something to this idea (much more than I would have admitted to prior to reading this book) and that I’m not setting out to simply refute it.
این کتاب برای خواندن نیست، برای مطالعه است انگار در این کشور کسی نیست که این کتاب را خوانده باشد و این خیلی ناراحت کننده است که حتی روز عید هم بالاترین مقام این کشور برای سخنرانیش درباره ی مسائل اقتصادی حرف هایی می زند که دقیقاً مخالف استدلال های این کتاب است. این کتاب به تمام افراد پیشنهاد می کنم
"The government cannot keep piling up debt indefinitely, for if it tries, it will someday become bankrupt." "Deficit spending, once embarked upon, creates powerful vested interests which demand its continuance under all conditions.""The country as a whole cannot get anything without paying for it."Although a lot of time has passed since this book was first published, and certain examples might seem dated, the basic information shared still remains pertinent, especially when making decisions between candidates and their proposals in an election year.
Look for all consequences of an economic proposal: who stands to gain, who stands to lose.
a triumph in the art of oversiplification
This thesis is illustrated with the use of few dozen example settings per chapter that are seemingly different (e.g. tariffs, rent control, unions, minimum wages, government infrastructure projects, technological creative destruction, price fixing, savings, etc), but are in fact argued to be instances of the same general pattern and the same recurring fallacies.If you already share the philosophy (e.g. you like Austrian school of economics, libertarian philosophy, capitalism, Ron Paul, and you worship the free market as the ultimate decentralized planning and allocation system), and you already have a working knowledge of economics then this book will supply you with a lot of additional ammunition of examples and arguments for fighting your socialist or keynesian friends.
Only once or twice he uses equivalent terms, such as "delusion".This is my (ironic) summary of the book:- Chapter NTheory A is a fallacy.
People who support it only think about the benefits for one group, and only about the short-term consequences.
Supporters of Theory E say "this" and "that", but it will take me some time to disprove it, and anyway that's not the purpose of this book, so I won't mention anything, just that it is a FALLACY- Chapter N+7Bunch of socialists and bureocrats!
Shitty examples.- Chapter N+8Inflation is the opium of the people.
The Second World War sparked a huge increase in the entire world economy, not just a diversion of demand from one thing to another.
19): "Therefore for every public job created by the bridge project a private job has been destroyed somewhere else." This is true ONLY if the problem is a lack of supply, rather than a lack of demand.
If the problem is lack of money and this lack of demand, then the government can borrow money, build a bridge, pay workers, and those workers will now have money to spend.
۴۱۷به قول موریس کوهن، "این خیال که می توانیم دیدگاههای تمام متفکران پیشین را رد کنیم، یقینا هیچ بنیانی باقی نمی گذارد تا بر اساس آن امیدوار باشیم که اثر خود ما ارزشی برای دیگران داشته باشد"
„Die Kunst des Wirtschaftens besteht darin, nicht nur die unmittelbaren, sondern auch die langfristigen Auswirkungen jeder Maßnahme zu sehen; sie besteht ferner darin, die Folgen jedes Vorgehens nicht nur für eine, sondern für alle Gruppen zu bedenken.“ (S. 27)Diese Prämissen wendet Hazlitt in 24 Fallbeispielen konsequent an und kommt so zu überraschenden Ergebnissen. Hazlitt gelingt es, volkswirtschafliche Zusammenhänge in einfacher Sprache unmittelbar einleuchtend zu erklären. Auch wenn der Text schon recht alt ist, so ist er doch hochaktuell: ein Kapitel ist zum Beispiel der Mietpreisbindung und deren Folgen gewidmet.
The "one lesson" is this: to truly understand economics (and make good economic policies) we must consider the short-term and long-term effects of a policy as well as how it affects all people immediately and in the future.There has been a paradigm shift in my thinking.
If people stopped to consider how these policies affected the whole community, I don't doubt that we would see a fundamental change in economic policy.I hope that our generation can escape the flawed economic policies that drive our country farther and farther away from prosperity.
Your lazy ass does not even have to walk the whole two blocks to the library, you can just roll over in your semen covered bed with gummy worms stuck to your back and pizza crumbs ingrained and meshed in your disgusting pubic-like chest hair and fumble with the mouse until you click on the link, and read a very short and simple explanation of economics in one easy lesson...This is probably the most important book written on economics in the history of the world and it is right there, there it is, right below this very sentence!!!!!
Reading Hazlitt's economic primer, I was reminded of the recent vice presidential debate, in particular Paul Ryan’s statement: “If you don't have a good record to run on, paint your opponent as someone people should run from.” Unfortunately, this book was plagued by a similar ailment.
Even when Hazlitt tries to make an argument in favor of a particular economic belief, his conclusions are often invalid due to weak premises or they contradict earlier statements.
One final note for anyone interested in reading this book: it is not an introduction to economics.
کتابی بیتکلف و مختصر در باب نقد اقتصاد دولتی و تفکرات رمانتیک و احساسی که گاها از سیاستمداران، یک قش
کتابی بی‌تکلف و مختصر در باب نقد اقتصاد دولتی و تفکرات رمانتیک و احساسی که گاها از سیاستمداران، یک ق
That was not just one lesson.
This book is an excellent, concise introduction to one particular kind of economic thinking: the idea that an economy works best if left to free market forces alone, and that any kind of government intervention is bad and disturbs the economy, rather than improving it.This is what I like about the book: I have never seen such a clear exposition of this line of thinking.
Those who don't are, in the words of the author: stupid, apostles of a different faith, enemies.In other words, this book is not a rational treatise of economics, but a political pamphlet.
I wanted to dislike this book because of its borderline-snobbish tone, but Hazlitt nailed it, and thankfully pointed out that there is no rule, no doctrine, no shortcut, no party, no faith that can point us to correct economic conclusions. We simply have to do the work to look at the evidence before understanding the consequences of any policy. As a plaque at NASA is rumored to say, "In God we trust. All others bring data."
Economics in One Lesson must be an absolute necessity for any Austrian School of Economics advocates.
Every single lesson is truly a testament to real economic prosperity rather than delusions spouted by politicians and media personnel.All 25 Lessons have significant importance, but fundamentally, the preeminent lesson is inflation.
Single-handedly, inflation can be blamed as the single most destructive use of government intervention.
Inflation is slaughtering every single nation across the globe.
Inflation devalues the currency while lowering the purchasing power.
Not only is inflation destructive, but the assault on savings is absolutely absurd.
If you only read one book on economics, read this one: read it and learn it.
(But don't read just one book on economics.) It's astounding how so many fail to grasp the basic truths in this volume, or, more likely, ignore the evidence and rush ahead with their failed schemes of redistribution, inflation, etc.
More and more people are becoming aware that government has nothing to give them without first taking it from somebody else - or themselves.""Depth in economics consists in looking for all the consequences of a policy instead of merely resting one's gaze on those immediately visible.
This book lives up to it's promise. I can confidently claim that this book granted me the understanding of basic economic principles and equipped me with knowledge to recognize common fallacies.The core lesson is straight forward. A coherent interpretive insight into a complicated economic decision can be made through keeping two principals in mind. The first being the consideration of how that decision affects the whole community at large, rather than a special group. Secondly, to always regard the effects of that decision in the long run, as opposed to short-term effects.Five stars all the way!
This book smacks down Keynesian economics with good ol' Austrian economics. Highlights (these are from memory so they may not be verbatim):"Inflation is the opiate of the masses" (LOVE the shoutout to Marx!)"Inflation is taxation of the most regressive kind.""The art of economics is not just seeing the immediate but the long term effects of any act or policy. You must trace the consequences of that policy not only for one group but for every group."I love the chapters on inflation, unions, free trade, tariffs, rent control... Heck, I loved every chapter.
The book uses simple examples of economics between individuals to understand the cost vs.
Author is a Classic Economist and argues that economic growth is never optimal with government intervention.
He shows how saving money is perhaps better to the growth of the economy than is consumption spending.
He persuasively argues against Keynesian Economics.
This book has at least a dozen economic concepts made clear and accessible for any curious person.
There is a degree of condescension in the book that I find a little too propagandish.
The book is a very valuable addition to my amateur interest in economics.
I read this a long time ago, but I keep coming back. Hazlitt makes a great approach to basic economic principles. You can find it for free online and you should give it a try if you are interested in an libertarian look at economics.
Finally got around to reading this. Though it's a bit dense, it was a good and necessary read. Every proponent of free enterprise should read this!
