https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32262.Life_Support
Springer Hospital where Toby spent her nights working the ER was generally quiet at that time of night, but the disoriented man was thrashing and jerking, delirious and completely out of it.
But when murder found its way to the parking bay of the ER, and Toby had trouble at home, she knew she had to find answers – fast.
Before it was way too late…Life Support by Tess Gerritsen is another gripping medical thriller from this author.
Fast paced and intensely chilling, Life Support is one I highly recommend.
Initial thoughts: In typical Gerritsen fashion, she kept me on my toes until the very last page. Review to come. Review:Actual rating: 4 Solid-Good-Mystery stars. No spoilers. Gerritsen always manages to keep me on my toes.  I've read quite a few books by her, and she never lets me down. When I'm in the mood for a mystery, she's one person I turn to. Her previous career as a doctor does amazing things for her medically based stories!! Being a Registered Nurse, I love reading medical thrillers!!
Initial thoughts: In typical Gerritsen fashion, she kept me on my toes until the very last page.
Review:Actual rating: 4 Solid-Good-Mystery stars.
Gerritsen always manages to keep me on my toes.
Her previous career as a doctor does amazing things for her medically based stories!!
Being a Registered Nurse, I love reading medical thrillers!!
She stumbles upon several cases that are similar to the patient she had that vanished.
She ends up figuring out there's too many things in common with all these cases for it to be a coincidence.
And I loved the medical aspect.
A good thriller!!
Excuse the horrible pun, but it's bloody brilliant.Review to come.
I've read 3 books so far by Gerritsen.
Her other stand-alone 'Harvest' and the first of her Rizzoli & Isles series 'The surgeon' and can honestly say this book is not on par with them at all in terms of enjoyability/ likeable characters/ plot.
Nothing as gripping or fabulous as the other 2 I have read which I rated much higher (both 5 stars).The plot has rather a far fetch sci- fi ish element which her other books lacked and am therefore glad about.
The book ended well and paced a bit better after the initial 200pages mark (ish- give or take).
Leest weer heerlijk weg. Ik hou van medische thrillers. Vond wel dat Toby wel erg veel te verduren kreeg.
This was horrible for me.
I understand that this was a stand alone and was quite different from the Rizzoli & Isles series, but this was by far the worst I've read by her.If I would have read this first and not the other series, I would have never picked any of her books up!I hated the plot, the story itself, the characters were flat and dull, the ending was horrible, and just everything altogether for me was total yuck!Prostitutes, non human babies/tumors thingies, ER night shift, everyone blaming someone else for others' mistakes, Newton Mass.
This all had a good premesis and then when it comes down to actually reading it, I was dreading it!I should have just put it down and it should've just stayed down.Oh well, wasn't my cup of tea.
Ne zaman Tess okusam, kurgunun gerçek olabilme ihtimali yüzünden içim ürperiyor. Kesinlikle çok ürkütücü bir romandı, diğer Tess romanlarında olduğu gibi. Tabi bir o kadar da sürükleyiciydi. Ne diyebilirim ki, klasik Tess işte. =)
Tess'in konu seçimine bayılıyorum... Yaşlılar(bitiş-ölüm) ve yeni doğmuş bebekler(doğum-başlangıç) arasında güzel bir bağ kurmuş. İlginç fikirlerini gerçekleştirmeye çalışan doktorlar ve çirkin deneylerini okurken ürpermemek elde değil...
Δεν ξέρω αν σας αρέσουν τα ιατρικά θρίλερ, εμένα πάντως πολύ.
Μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ.
Έχει αγωνία, ανατριχιλα και κοινωνικό ενδιαφέρον αφού ασχολείται με παράνομα ιατρικά πειράματα σε ασθενείς που δεν έχουν ιδέα γι αυτό.
Η συγγραφέας ήταν ιατρός οπότε έχει τον τρόπο της με αυτά τα θέματα.
Μου άρεσε τόσο πολύ που αγόρασα κι άλλο βιβλίο της που διαβάζω τώρα και που είναι ακόμη πιο δυνατό "Αμαρτωλά νυστέρια" ο τίτλος.
Θα επανέλθω για αυτό όταν το τελειώσω.
Αν λοιπόν σας αρέσουν τα ιατρικά θρίλερ ή αν θέλετε να διαβάσετε για πρώτη φορά τότε αυτή η συγγραφέας είναι η ιδανική.
Her personal life includes a solitary existence with the exception of her mother with Alzheimers living in her home.
The patient mysteriously disappears while under Toby's care and she feels her life beginning to spiral out of her control as she fights her guilt over the disappearing patient, loses control over the delicate balance of her mother's care, and the threat of losing her job.
The plot is very realistic and raises ethical and moral questions about how far people will go to prolong life and how much of our humanity do we sacrifice to get there.
I just finished Life Support and Tess Gerritsen has impressed me again with her knowledge of yet another aspect of medicine; geriatrics.
She is a master at making the elevated world of medicine and doctors understandable to the masses.
Her ability to create new characters and bring them to life is equaled with few and bettered by none.
If I could voice one criticism it would be that she leaves her characters with their lives unresolved (no happily-ever-after endings) and leave it to the reader’s imagination.
All in all, Tess Gerritsen’s books leave the reader on an emotional high with questions swirling in their grey brain mass.
2,5.Bu aralar kendimi notu kit ogretmenler gibi hissediyorum. Ama harika bir Tess Gerritsen romani gibi baslayan kitabin donustugu seyden cok hoslanmadim. Tek bir kisinin ruh durumu betimlemesi icin dokuz sayfa ayirirken tum olay orgusunu uc sayfada cozmeye calismak da nedir? Ayrica kitabin editoryali korkunc. Kelimelerin harflerinin arasina sayilar girmis, vs. Tip terimlerinin Turkcelestirilmesiyle ilgili de sorunlarim var. Durumu tam olarak degerlendirmek icin sanirim biraz daha dusunmem gerek. Once eski bir medikal cevirmen gozuyle, sonra da nispeten yeni bir kitap cevirmeni gozuyle... Dusun Asli, dusun.
amžinos jaunystės eliksyrasAntra mano skaityta Gerritsen knyga ir turbūt viena mažiau žinomų ir giriamų jos knygų.
Jau pradedu pajusti Gerritsen kūrybos ritmą ir jis man patinka, bet iki tobulumo kažko dar tikrai trūksta.
Ne prie širdies man ir tos galiausiai ne visai intelektualios pagrindinės veikėjos – lyg ir protingos, viską greitai susigaudo, bet kai reikia ką nors akivaizdaus pamatyti, tai niekaip.
O gal ir ta skaitytojo visažinystė čia kiek pakiša koją, kai matai kelias istorijos linijas ir žinai, kad vienaip ar kitaip jos turi susijungti, o ir šiaip tvirtai žinai, kad nusikaltimas visgi vyksta.
Kitap hakkında ne düşüneceğimi tam olarak bilemiyorum şuan.Karakterleri hiç sevmedim,olay akışı çok yavaştı,gerilim yoktu,bazı yerler fazla uzatılmıştı.Ama..KURGU YİNE MUHTEŞEMDİ.Bu kadın Nasıl yazıyor böyle şeyler aklım almıyor gerçekten.Bu Nasıl bir hayal gücü? Nasıl bir bilgi? Tess tüm tıp bilgisini bu kitaba dökmüş.İyi bir kitaptı ama benim beklentilerim daha farklıydı kitaba başlarken.Rizzoli&Isles serisini okuduğunuzda Tess'den okuyacağınız herhangi bir kitabın kanlı,aşırı gerilimli olmasını bekliyorsunuz.Bende böyle beklemiştim tabii.Ama hiçbir kitaba beklentiyle başlamamak gerekiyor sanırım.Okuyacaklara tavsiyem,beklentinizi yüksek tutmayın,gerilimli bir kitap beklemeyin.Tıp ile ilgilenenler mutlaka okusun derim.
Actually, I didn't read it.
I started it, but I couldn't finish it.
I'm going to have to write to the Goodreads people and ask them to make a new shelf for books like this one.
I tried.
Usually, I like Tess Gerritsen books.
But this one had too many things in it that I couldn't stand: graphic descriptions (too graphic) of things such as surgeries, a rape, and human genitalia; weird/unnatural science; I could go on.
But I won't.
The long and short of it is that I won't try this book again because I couldn't take it.
Not totally perfect but I stayed up until 2.30am last night reading this1 I just had to finish. Wow, but this has a creepy factor that glued me to the page! It reminded me of Brain by Robin Cook. I also admire the way the author humanizes her protagonists.Gerritsen is truly one of the very best ever in the genre!
After reading every other book Tess Gerritsen had read a while ago I had almost forgotten how much I enjoyed her novels. This medical thriller is a classic page turner and I couldn't wait to read more. All the way through this book I felt I had either read it before or seen a film of the book but I don't think I have. Can't wait for the next book.
Tobė ima gilintis į mirtis ir kartu su kitų daktarų pagalba nustato, jog tai itin reta Kroicfeldo – Jakobo liga nustatoma vienam žmogui iš milijono.
Tobė aiškinasi ar visa tai susiję, tačiau jos noras viską sužinoti į didžiulį pavojų pastato ją ir jos šeimą.Man šita knyga be galo priminė gerą, mokslinį siaubo filmą.
Nors, žinoma, pasakojimas yra išgalvotas, tačiau Tess apie viską kalba taip aiškiai, įtikinamai ir logiškai, kad norom nenorom įsijauti, patiki ir įsibaimini.
Nors „Užkratas“ ir nėra mano mylimų veikėjų Rizzoli ir Ails trileris, tačiau man tikrai labai patiko.
This book follows the story of a doctor named Toby whose life gets thrown upside down when a confused man goes missing from her ER room.
Toby's quest for the truth brings her down the path of murder, love, and mysterious diseases.Although This wasn't nearly as good as  Harvest  or  Gravity ,  Life Support  was highly entertaining and I ended up binging the last 200 pages in one day.
I honestly could not put the book down.
All-in-all, this was a very good medical thriller that I highly recommend to anyone wanting to get into this genre.
A good, easy to read, medical adventure/drama from the ever reliable Gerritsen. Lady doctor tries to unravel an outbreak of confusion and death, and gets her reputation trashed by the bad guys. Deals with elder abuse and people who are not happy about growing older. (This hits close to home.) Well done. Recommended.
First book I have read by this author. It is an older book but I still enjoyed it. I would definitely read another by her.
Page turner, medical thriller. Interesting book to read.
I enjoyed the story and the medical mystery even if some of it was very rushed at times.
The parts of the book that felt a little rushed were the relationship between Dvorak and Toby and the ending.
The ending felt like the Author had come to her page allotment for the book and just needed to sum it up.
Rarely do I say I think a book needs to be longer but I think if she took 10-15 more pages she could have summed the book up better.
The medical mystery in this book involves Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
The book starts out well, with good character development and several plot lines. And if you can get past the disturbing images the author creates, you are in for a nail-biting ending. But the mental image is quite disturbing - borderline sci-fi, but disgusting. Also, the medical terminology and jargon get a bit tiresome. Finally, the way the author deals with a family member's death is not authentic.My biggest complaint with this author is that I don't like her protagonists. They generally start out as reasonable people but end up shrill and annoying.
This book ended up as a decent read, although it was far from my favorite Gerritsen book. It started out very slow, and for a while I just couldn't figure out where it was going. The ending brought everything together even though the climax was a bit lackluster. All in all, I did like the book and I thought the characters were well flushed out. A good medical thriller with a plot that left me wondering if it could indeed actually happen. Not my favorite from Gerritsen, but certainly worth the read, as all her books are.
I was looking for a fast paced thriller and found it in Life Support. It is one of Tess Gerritsen's early medical mysteries. It met my need and I enjoyed meeting the various characters and the plotting. Once I started reading, I most certainly did not want to stop until the last page. I still have a few pre 2000 Gerritsen books that I haven't read, but the list is getting shorter. I just found a few more at my library.
This book dealt with medical research suspense -- specifically hormone/gene therapy. Tess is an interesting author, and I can only imagine how much research goes into each novel she writes.
Das Buch hätte mir noch besser gefallen, wenn ich nicht von den vielen medizinischen Begriffen erschlagen worden wäre.
In ihrer Nachtschicht im Krankenhaus taucht ein verwirrter alter Mann auf mit merkwürdigen, anfallartigen Symptomen auf, doch bevor er noch adequat untersucht und behandelt werden kann, verschwindet er wieder.
Die Aufklärung des Medizinthrillers, der im Bereich experimenteller Genertik mit unethischischen Methoden liegt, vermengt Horror und den berechtigten Zweifel, dass vielleicht doch schon ähnliches durchdacht oder sogar erprobt wird.
Die Ärztin Tony Harper hat nicht das Charisma und die Intelligenz einer Maura Isles und war mir nicht sonderlich sympathisch, aber Tess Gerritsen hat mit Roter Engel durchaus einen durchdachten Plot und gute Spannung vorgelegt.
I enjoyed Rizzoli and Isles so much I thought I would listen to some other offerings by Tess Gerritsen.From the book cover: "Control was the word Dr Toby Harper lived by.
She strove to keep her life in order, her ER in order.
The subsequent search leads Toby to a second patient with the same infection.
And it reveals an unsettling twist - the infection can only be spread through direct tissue exchange.
Soon Toby's on a trail that winds from a pregnant sixteen-year-old prostitute to an unexpected tragedy in her own home.
