https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97486.The_Crow
"Buildings burn, people die, but real love is forever..."    The Crow is a story of love, hate, violence, honor, greed, revenge, and, ultimately, redemption.The world of James O'Barr is beautiful, despite its darkness.   There's a very fine line between being a hero and a villian. That's the reason I love Eric Draven so much. Eric is the perfect example of an antihero. He is a good guy forced to do bad things in order to avenge his beloved fiancée. He is a complex character you can't help but
"Buildings burn, people die, but real love is forever..."  
The Crow is a story of love, hate, violence, honor, greed, revenge, and, ultimately, redemption.The world of James O'Barr is beautiful, despite its darkness.
That's the reason I love Eric Draven so much.
Eric is the perfect example of an antihero.
“Remember when you said "Mine?" and I said "Forever".
I still think the movie is better.
*gasp* The novel is awesome though.
To anyone who hasn't read the novel/seen the movie - rent it, buy it, download it, steal it - love it.P.S. Check out these videos-https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=az-2Q...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzbRS...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RWs8k...
The reasoning, it seems, is that all of the characters, other than "the crow", are card board and underdeveloped.I respect people's opinion.
And, if I were to judge this book against the greats of literature, or even the greats of Graphic novels, I might have to agree.
This story, told in graphic novel format, is not an attempt at classical literature.
This story is a reminder of that painful depth.
It is a black mirror to our sunny dispositions.In that, this story, presented in graphic novel format, accomplishes exactly what was intended.
Graphic novels are not written to be cool.
This is a gruesome dichotomy of letters and images painting one hell of a warpath. I want all graphic novels to carry such poignancy. "In the doorway of glory he finds Death who puts his hands in hers and whispers to him, "Now... Come home, now.""Soon," he says." Mind you, reader, this is my first graphic novel that I have read to completion outside of superheroes... what a first it was!The images have imprinted themselves onto my brain. Tiny pieces of words pricked like shards of glass. I am a
This is a gruesome dichotomy of letters and images painting one hell of a warpath.
I want all graphic novels to carry such poignancy.
"In the doorway of glory he finds Death who puts his hands in hers and whispers to him, "Now...
Come home, now.""Soon," he says." Mind you, reader, this is my first graphic novel that I have read to completion outside of superheroes...
what a first it was!The images have imprinted themselves onto my brain.
Tiny pieces of words pricked like shards of glass.
I am a lovely, bloody mess of thoughts and feelings.The Crow contains a thrill of vengeance, the pull of religion, and nuances of imperfect love.
Let's be real, there was no way I was going to NOT love this. However, I have to say that this was WAY darker than I had anticipated. Every page is filled with pain and anger, and overall the comic needs to come with a list of trigger warnings, so keep that in mind. Still, it is one of the most amazing and powerful things I have ever read. If you've seen the movie, let me explain in gif form...Eric Draven in the film:Eric Draven in the comic:
This book brings back some amazing memories for me - ironic really as its creation was part of the healing process of terribly painful memories for the author.I will tell my story since James O'Barr's story is very much documented (and even expanded upon in the afterwards in this definitive version - yes me and my afterwards).I was at uni and one of my best friends has a serious fixation on this book, ironically it was shortly before the film came out (and all the controversy surrounding it).
I remember being instructed how to read it and look after it, ironic really considering the number of books even back then I owned and cared for.Well the book is impressive - for its violence, for its anger and energy and for its tender pain.
ΤΟ ιδανικότερο ανάγνωσμα για το Halloween...Ζευγάρι δολοφονείται άγρια τη βραδιά του Halloween.
Ένα χρόνο μετά, ο Eric Draven (ο άντρας του ζευγαριού) επιστρέφει στη ζωή για να απονείμει δικαιοσύνη και να τιμωρήσει το θάνατο το δικό του και της αγαπημένης του.
Σκοτεινό γοτθικό σκηνικό, με έναν τιμωρό του κακού που δεν διστάζει μπροστά σε τίποτα.
Συντροφιά του - τοτέμ - είναι ένα κοράκι, μυστικιστικό σύμβολο μαγείας, πνευματικής καθοδήγησης και ενόρασης.
Στο ρόλο του Eric o Brandon Lee, γιος του Bruce Lee, ο οποίος σκοτώθηκε κατά τη διάρκεια των γυρισμάτων γιατί κάποιος έξυπνος είχε βάλει αληθινές σφαίρες στο όπλο ενός κακού (!)Στο ίδιο στυλ τιμωρού εγώ βλέπω το Hellspawn, με διαφορετικά κίνητρα ο καθένας πάντως!
This is a gruesome dichotomy of letters and images painting one hell of a warpath.
I want all graphic novels to carry such poignancy."In the doorway of glory he finds Death who puts his hands in hers and whispers to him, "Now...
Come home, now.""Soon," he says." Mind you, reader, this is my first graphic novel that I have read to completion outside of superheroes...
what a first it was!The images have imprinted themselves onto my brain.
Tiny pieces of words pricked like shards of glass.
I am a lovely, bloody mess of thoughts and feelings.The Crow contains a thrill of vengeance, the pull of religion, and nuances of imperfect love.
Eric's rampage is itself a love letter written in blood to his dead fiance, and to their life together -- but ultimately it's a letter about his own pain, and his own loss.At the same time, though, there are those touches of humanity -- not only in Eric, but even in the villains.
It's not a joke at the villain's expense, but a simple fact of life: this is what shock is.There are going to be readers who are rather hidebound, and will rail against the non-traditional story structure and the lack of character development for all but the main character.
Loved it - hard for me to not see Brandon Lee while reading this - Great art, great love story!
Sometimes you start with a brilliant book and end up with a mediocre (or outright horrible) movie.
Schow (The Kill Riff) and John Shirley (Wetbones) took in adapting the book to a script, and that Proyas took in bringing that script to life, were pretty severe.
Some of them were missteps; changing Sherry's name to Sarah muddies the Sherry/Shelly link, but Sarah is a fully-formed character, whereas Sherry feels like a character who should be there a lot more, but ends up being window dressing.
Having seen the 1994 cult classic starring the late Brandon Lee in his last role, I wanted to check 
This graphic novel is like a song.A sad song. dies irae of lovedies irae for love. Breathtaking murder of crow indeed .
And the young skateboarding girl in the movie, Sarah (view spoiler)[her character is a kid named Sherri in the book (hide spoiler)].
The one thing I did not like is how O'Barr had Eric (view spoiler)[steal Funboy's Morphine and use it himself to get high.
He also cuts himself (hide spoiler)].
There was a lot of poetry and song lyrics put into the story, so much that the main character (The Crow/Eric Draven) often quotes poems and speaks in riddles.
I feel like the movie is a much more simplified version of the book.
The legend of the Crow in this miniseries says that if a great injustice is done (The brutal murder of his girlfriend) sometimes someone comes back to right the wrong. Universal law/justice/balance. So Eric comes back and takes his revenge and the guilty are punished. It is a very brutal story, but redeeming as well.
My feelings on The Crow are more mixed than a child's candy bag on Halloween.There's good, not so good, and lots of stuff, that no matter how unique or evocative, doesn't necessarily hold up to snuff some thirty years later.First of all, the influence of anime/manga (I remember when it was still colloquially referred to as "Japanamation" back in the day) is as egregious it is obvious.
With strong character development, a great narrative, and some of the prettiest art to ever grace a graphic novel James O'Barr's The Crow is highly recommended for comic book fans and readers alike.(Final Note, please read it in one session.
My rating on this is more based on how it affected me when I first read it than how I'd necessarily react to it now.
Eric undoubtedly becomes something monstrous in order to take revenge on the people who violated he and his fiancee, and there is a sense at the end that maybe he can't come back from that, that by allowing himself to be brought back to take revenge, he's lost the person he loves completely, which is a much more complex, nuanced approach to the "revenge fantasy" than most comics at the time were able to pull off.
It talks about what the Crow really was about, and the story behind it, and you can just feel the emotional weight within the words.
The graphic novel goes for creating the main character as someone we understand, and what we kinda wish we could do to our feelings of guilt and the like.
One moment it's poetic verses, that detail exactly what's going on in the minds of the character, to the grit of slang used by these assholes who we just want killed.Reading it with the heavy weight of what brought this story to life, there's an even bigger emotional pull, all the words, verses, and malice just hang heavier.
It is just one of the most haunting, heart-breaking, and atmospheric graphic novels I've read and I definitely recommend it.
By all rights it should read as slightly ridiculous.
But it all comes together so beautifully that it just works.And if you're like me and automatically give most things a hard pass if they feature 'dead wife as plot device', maybe give this one a try because it's really not like all the other ones.
You can tell that O'Barr's writing comes from a place of genuine pain and not just 'well i don't know what else to do with women in stories so might as well rape and kill them' like you see from a lot of authors who use this premise.
I haven't read this since middle school, but damn if it doesn't hold up.
It's dark and gritty, and you can't stop reading it.
It's a painful look at the life of a man whose one true love, is violently raped and murdered right in front of him (granted he's virtually dead so he can't exactly stop them).
A year later he is somehow back, having rejected death, he goes out to seek revenge on the gang of thugs and addicts that ruined his life and exact his justice.
If not the Nolan‘s "Batman" trilogy, "The Killing Joke" comics would still be unknown, if not the adaptation starring Brandon Lee, the brilliant O‘Barr "The Crow" wouldn‘t be in „would read again“ shelf.
Surrounded by great music in the background Eric and his crow soon started the journey.
The Joker Ledger created obviously shared many similarities with Eric Draven.
All it takes is a little push." and the episode where Draven says "I am complete and total madness".
If shocking Shelly's death is that little push to the edge, then Eric is truly an example of madness.
The movie did a good job of bringing the story to its core, which is a revenge story where The Crow comes back from the dead and avenges the death of his fiancee and himself.
I love the mythology of the Crow bringing the spirit back from the dead to take care of unfinished business as well.
As far as non comic fans go, this could be a little weird to you, or you could love it as well, it's hard to say.
And even if you hated the movie, but love dark and moody art, you'd probably like this book.
I'm giving this three stars based sheerly on nostalgia. I read this in comic book form as a college student back in the late 80's when it first came out, and I remember thinking it was really cool. As an adult, I find it pretty unreadable goth garbage from a creator who was just getting started. This edition inserts new pages of art into the original story, and they really drive home how much O'Barr matured as an artist in the years following his big breakthrough.
Due to major plot changes and the creative motivation behind "The Crow".
What would you be willing to do if god sent you back as tool of revenge?
The movie changed the ending which was one of my favorite moments in the book.
Also given the history and tragedy that brought the author to the creation of the book's concept creates a aggressively deeper meaning and impact to the overall story.
If you like the book stay away from all other "Crow" related stories and productions.
Read this book to you're inner teen and enjoy, I still do.
I pick up three books randomly and i seem to have stumbled across the dark side of this graphic world.This was just plan grim.
Dark, dirty and just pure violence and tortured souls.
THe author has a very very dark place he can call on to write this story, because there was nothing here at all to enjoy.
I chose a couple fo graphics for a light break from the fantasy and scifi I have been reading and I find myself gloomy and sad.I understand all the hype surrounding the movie, but seriously, this is just violence with a small story wrapped around it.
Words can not do this graphic novel justice, but true to its genre it is a GRAPHIC novel.
The sense of pure anger and vengence is so really you feel the weight of it as you turn each of the glossy pages that are soaked in James O'Barrs lose and pain.
The images are stickingly vivid but the words cut your from mind to soul and you begin to see what the lose of true love can drive man to do.
My words feel empty and bland as i try to tell you how deeply this work has effected me.
I absolutely loved this book and many thanks to the wonderful individual without whom I never would have touched this book (she knows who she is). The reader definitely experiences the rawness of The Crow's pain portrayed not just through the dialogue and actions but also through the artwork. The subject matter is dark and the book physically reflects this as well. It is a true gem and I encourage all to read it, even if it's not your typical read.
The story opens with the start of Eric's search and we see the intense love of the couple through flashbacks, the sorrow and despair of a lost love are overwhelming and a stark contrast to the violence and the gothic tone of the book.The artwork is dark and moody, vividly bringing the character and his desires to life, the overall feeling of sorrow outweighs the tale of vengeance, heightened by the use of almost sermon type monologue as he ends the lives of the killers.
The Crow Review Comic Book Rating: 2 stars out of 5.
This is one of the first times that I loved the movie more than book/comic version.
I like that it's dark, but some of the scenes didn't mesh up to the movie...I was really disappointed.
I love when books or comics do that.
This is actually pretty hard for me to review honestly because I didn't expect to not like it.
The comic really didn't meet my expectations...One other thing that you should know is that I don't really like reading American comic books that much, but James O'Barr is a great artist.
One of the most powerful sections of this book is the introduction by John Bergin and it describes how O'Barr funnelled his rage and pain at losing someone dear into the pages of this book.
The lonely do not usually speak as completely and intimately as James O'Barr does here in this book- so, if anything, at least take this lesson from The Crow: think about what you have to lose.Looking back, this was one of the first graphic novels I had read and it set the stage for my love of Neil Gaiman's Sandman, whose wild black hair, pale skin, and brooding demeanor reminded be so much of Eric Draven.
The readers who consider "The Crow" to be a simple comic revenge story are totally missing the point: James O'Barr's breakout graphic novel is a work of art, a profound examination of pain and guilt and loneliness.
Despite owning a well-worn copy of the graphic novel, I recently bought the new special edition version and was again floored by "The Crow." The addition of thirty pages of new artwork doesn't change the story so much as clarify and intensify the original book.
As O'Barr notes in the new introduction, this version is not a cynical cash grab but a realization of his purest vision.
