https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223050.To_Walk_the_Night
Knowing that a new edition was in the works helped me to look (and smell) past the brittle yellow mustiness of my copy and imagine I was reading a well-engineered NYRB edition with a nice cover.
In fact while reading I continually thought of the myth of Medusa, which in the end was not too far off the mark, as the book sauntered toward its denouement.
At least not far off the mark of my reading of the Medusa myth.
I came up with this reading while dating a certain woman…So, elbow patches, Medusa, mustiness, where was I?
Berkeley Jones regresa a la casa en la que se crió, en Long Island, donde reside el doctor Lister, padre de su amigo Jerry.
El retorno de Berk se debe a la reciente muerte de Jerry.
Berk relatará al doctor Lister, que es como un padre para él, sus sospechas sobre el motivo del suicidio de Jerry, las cuáles giran en torno a Selena, la enigmática y misteriosa esposa de su amigo.‘El tiempo de la noche’ (To Walk the Night, 1937), del escritor William Sloane, está considerada una novela de culto dentro de la literatura fantástica.
This novel travels Lovecraft territory, but features actual human interaction in place of Lovecraft's misanthropy. It was first published in 1937, but the prose has a very contemporary feel, and it's the first novel in a while that's gripped me so tightly that I lost track of time.
Pedazo de novela. Sorprende que sea tan poco conocida. Como casi todas las que son especiales por un motivo o por otro (o por muchos), resulta imposible ponerle etiquetas. Afortunadamente.
Como bien dice la introducción de Basil Davenport en la edición que leí: «en un extremo del género de ciencia ficción, en los límites de lo científico, hay historias —aunque no tantas como años atrás— que son en verdad acertijos de física.
Sin embargo, disfruto ciencia ficción de la buena, la que te hace cuestionar la ciencia y los hechos que damos por ciertos.
Es por esto que mi autor predilecto de este género es Olaf Stapledon, nombre desconocido para muchos, pero un verdadero estandarte de la buena ciencia ficción.
Having read it, though, it seems to me that this, William Sloane's first novel, could just as easily have gone on someone's Top 100 Horror, Mystery OR Sci-Fi list, as this terrific book has elements of all those categories mixed in.The tale concerns two young men who visit their alma mater and discover one of their old professors murdered...burnt to a crisp by some mysterious flame.
Once the reader finishes this book, he/she will doubtless feel compelled to seek out William Sloane's only other book, "The Edge of Running Water," which, sadly enough, like "To Walk the Night," is also inexplicably out of print.
Schnell wird dem Leser klar, dass es sich nicht um einen Kriminalfall handelt, den die Polizei klären können wird.Dieser sonderbare Todesfall regt die Fantasie im Laufe der Erzählung jedoch weniger an als die ebenfalls nicht zu beantwortetende Frage, was es mit LeNormands geheimnisvoller Witwe auf sich hat, die bald darauf den besten Freund des Erzählers heiratet, einer geheimnisvollen Frau ohne Vergangenheit und mit sonderbaren, schwer zu fassenden Eigenheiten.
Der Leser muss sich darauf einlassen, dass hier ein umständlicher Bericht abgelegt wird, mit dem der Erzähler zunächst den Vater des verstorbenen Sohnes beruhigen will - obwohl er selbst höchst beunruhigt ist.
The pace of the story is a bit slow.
He starts the story with the discovery, by Jerry and himself, of the dead body of one of their former professors.
Jerry quickly falls for Selena, but Berk has the opposite reaction and actually fears her.
For most of the book, the reader knows in general where the story is going, but is forced to wait until the final chapter to find out the specifics.
Yet, despite the slow pace and the somewhat predictible plot, I found the writing held my interest fairly well.
I can't say this is a great book, but I enjoyed it enough to recommend it.
With its mix of science fiction and mystery genres, William Sloane’s little-known 1937 novel “To Walk the Night” could be called a cosmic mystery novel. The book is much better written than most science fiction then and now, and it kept my interest to the very end, but that end was disappointing. New York Review Books reissued this novel and “The Edge of Running Water” in one volume in 2015. Sprinkled through the novel are fine bits of description, both of the exterior and interior worlds. Afte
It’s been my experience that even bad storytellers with a solid grounding in Latin are unable to write bad prose, and Sloane had serious narrative chops to go along with his basic writing skills.”	That’s a curious statement, but I do think a knowledge of Latin and ancient Greek, compulsory at many high schools and colleges 100 years ago, does help writers and editors know and use English better.
Thinking more about the story after finishing the book, I concluded the plot didn’t hold together well, there were too many things not adequately explained, and the mystery was manufactured rather than coming organically from the materials of time, place, and characters.
Cloud Mesa and it’s vast open loneliness, even if taking up less than 10% of the story, is frightening and made me feel it.
Sloane has a simplistic and very logical way of writing, but always has momentum.
Writing this now, I feel more fond of the book than I did when I finished it, and it glows rather than fades in my memory.
Without understanding one whole half of the population, one can never excel at writing human stories.
But even as Sloane fails to write a novel with life and real characters and feeling, he wins because it works in context.
Sloane logra dosificar muy bien la información que permite encajar todas las piezas del rompecabezas y mantiene el suspense de forma que estás deseando pasar la página para ver qué pasa después.
Uno de los grandes aciertos de la novela es el sistema que sigue el narrador para contar la historia: se dirige en todo momento a un narratario que es otro personaje que interviene en la trama.
Ese recurso, junto con los incisos que devienen del diálogo entre narrador y narratario, te introduce en la novela como si estuvieses siendo testigo de primera mano de todo lo que cuentan.
What I enjoyed most about this story was the author’s writing style. The prose flows so nicely throughout. The beginning was riveting and immediately drew me in. However, after a few chapters, the narrative became much less interesting. Furthermore, the outcome quickly became very predictable.The finale is flat and expected, but does provide enough of closure.This novel had a ton of potential. Overall, I am glad to have experienced it. I wish the science fiction elements were further developed including motivation and purpose.
I had the most sympathy for Selena, the apparently alien consciousness inhabiting a human body. I assume the author wrote the story to be sci-fi horror and that he sided with the narrator. However, the narrator came off like a close-minded bore. It's interesting to compare this to how Lovecraft handled a similar situation (either with the brains-in-the-jar mi-go or the time travelling consciousness in the "Shadow Out of Time"). In both of those cases the alien intelligence feels more alien and casually malevolent. Selena, on the other hand, just tries to fit in.
Interesting, pre-war SF/weird fiction. Unfortunately, some of the ideas have become clichés, thus the denouement will not have the impact it surely did when it was written. Still, it managed to be an engaging read and I will definitely read the writer's other book (which came with this one in an omnibus edition put out by NYRB).
This was okay. The writing was good, but the plotting could've been stronger. When the "big reveal" comes at the end, my reaction was kinda like "yeah, I guessed as much from reading the dust jacket." Full of promise, but not very focused.
Interesting, but quiet, little literary thriller.
Ends with a little bit too much explanation but an excellent story.
Atmospheric and at times very good though uneven overall.
Excellent, very well written, page-turner as well as sensible and flawlessly developped. Can't be read a second time, though, knowing the plot is fatal.
Better to read it in an afternoon or two, to not lose the intriguing atmosphere Sloane creates. Good novel, a kind of relaxed Lovecraft, sometimes even more suggesting.
Like Gatsby's Frankenstein
The darkness of the porch Jones and Dr. Lister are sitting on reflects the ignorance, uncertainty and doubt the reader and protagonist share throughout the story.
The same fear that Jones feels around Selena is reflected in the attitudes many Westerners hold of refugees who worry about allowing terrorists into their cities or of their culture being diluted or changed.
It could have highlighted embracing differences between people and not being afraid of that which we do not know.
Alas, To Walk the Night is not a social commentary it is simply an entertaining book from which each reader must then find their own light.
I believe most modern readers will pretty quickly figure out Selene's secret, but even so I found the way Sloane spun the plot engrossing.
The fact that he included the last scene in the book where Selene explicitly states to Bark and Dr. Lister that she is an alien from outer space is evidence I believe, that Sloane at least, did not expect contemporary readers to necessarily guess her nature.
For modern readers Selene is a very familiar figure: the alien (sometimes robot) who just doesn't quite understand what it means to be human.
Originally published in 1937, this book reads as fresh and current as anything written today.
With every page, there is an overwhelming feeling of knowing that something just isn't right with the lovely Selena.
Although it isn't really a horror story, a vague sense of unease and creepiness pervades throughout.
The narrator, Bark, is a likable character and we want to figure it out with him.
We share his unease and his revulsion, as well as his love for his best friend.
What a treat to find this decades-old book in a newly published collection!
A surprise for me: a horror/suspense/mystery novel I had never heard of.
And a damned good one, too.
It has been a very long time since I literally could not put a book down until I had finished it, but this one hooked me, and the last few chapters were impossible to interrupt for such irrelevancies and meals or sleep...
If you're looking for gory and grotesque, this book is not for you: the horror is sneaky, implied, and all the more compelling for that, while the mystery is ...
well, mysterious.
Written in the 1930s, "To Walk the Night" has a remarkably timeless feel to it.
Reseña: http://www.fabulantes.com/2015/02/tie..."La novela discurre con fluidez, se lee del tirón.
Pero no por entretenida, que lo es, sino principalmente por misteriosa.
Sloane logra que el lector se involucre con el texto y que tenga avidez por saber si al final Selena será desenmascarada, Jerry vengado, y el enigma redondeado con una solución aceptable.
El encantamiento se produce por la solidez de los personajes descritos, magnificados por una prosa que bebe mucho de Chandler en las descripciones y, sobre todo, en los diálogos.
La gran baza del libro es su sensación indefinida de suspense.
La tensión es tan latente que casi tiene corporeidad."
Marketed as a tale of cosmic horror, this isn't quite the stuff of Lovecraft but it is interesting reading, especially considering it was first published in 1937. A beautiful but mysterious woman enters the lives of two young scientists who have been life-long friends and changes things forever. I can see why it's compared to Lovecraft, though I can't explain why without posting spoilers, but it's really more a science-fiction story, and in fact would have been more effective if it had been a short story or a novella--the middle of the book is a bit of a slog.
Modern readers will be 70 or 80 pages ahead of the protagonist in solving the main mystery -- but that doesn't matter. This remains a masterfully plotted tale of the supernatural with good writing, strong characterizations and plenty of goosebumps along the way, and the last paragraph will haunt you.
My first foray into so-called "cosmic horror" where I wind up having more questions about the genre than when I started. Oh well. A suspenseful tale told in past-tense (right up to the frightful end) of a bizarre murder, a beautiful woman and a suicide -- or is it murder? I'm being a little generous with three stars. It was more of a 2.5.
Although this book falls into the category of novels you will only read once, since all points towards the surprise ending, it is nevertheless marvelously skilled, creepy and effective.
