https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37198.Onions_in_the_Stew
Some people have comfort food. I have comfort books and this one is near the top of the list. I love Betty MacDonald and this is my favorite of all of her hilarious books. I probably read this book about every 12-18 months. She makes me laugh out loud and I only wish I could write half as well.
I go back to it time and time again, whether I want a good laugh, need cheering up, especially when I am feeling unwell, or simply becuse I haven't read it for a few months.
The ultimate comfort read.Something of a bible for me really, despite being set in late 1940s Pacific Northwest America.
Somehow comforting to know that the daily challenges and pleasures of life aren't so very different whether you're living on an island in 1940s America or in a village in modern-day Cornwall.
It's pretty much shaped my outlook on life which, let's face it, is pretty damn good really!
I feel a little bit of a sense of ownership regarding Betty MacDonald because her egg farm, on what is now called “Egg and I Road,” was just down the road from where I live on the Olympic Peninsula.
But even if we weren’t linked by geography, I would love Betty!
(She also was a friend to raccoons, which is something I really like in a person).Onions in the Stew is a memoir of her life on the northwest’s lovely Vashon Island (which she notes is an ideal place for “mildew and people with dry skin who like to read”).Like her other books, especially the Plague and I, this is laugh-out-loud funny.
My family loves these books, and even a brief snippet from one always produces grins all around. This one has one of our most-quoted passages, in a chapter on food and cooking: "Another female household-hinter gave a recipe for a big hearty main dish of elbow macaroni, mint jelly, lima beans, mayonnaise and cheese baked until 'hot and yummy'. Unless my taste buds are paralyzed, this dish could be baked until hell freezes over and it might get hot but never 'yummy'." All we have to say is "bake until hot and yummy!" and everyone knows we're talking baaaaad cooking.
I double dog dare you to find a better author than Betty MacDonald. If you haven't read The Egg and I, drop whatever you're doing and lay hold of a copy. Onions in the Stew chronicles life on Vashon Island off of Seattle. Written in 1955 this book is spot on delightful. I'm going to copy her chapter on raising teenagers and hand it out like candy.
This might still be my favorite book of all time, even though I first read it 30 years ago. It's a memoir of family life on an island in Puget Sound during and immediately after WWII. It evokes a specific time in American history, simple, optimistic, and wildly funny.
Found this in a used bookstore and the title intrigued me. Betty MacDonald would be a wonderful stand-up comedian. Some parts of this book were so funny, I had to run into the other room - book in hand - to read it out loud to another person. Side note: I mentioned to my 83 yr old grandmother the other day that I was reading this book. When I mentioned the author, she said, "Oh, she was from Seattle...my aunt Anna used to babysit her daughters..." Small world!
My mother and her sisters grew up on Vashon, well, they were summer girls. I was lucky enough to be a summer girl too.Onions in the Stew is so Vashon in the 50s. Reading it reminded me of all the great times we had there. The Beall Greenhouses mentioned in the book (orchids) was my uncle Fergie Beall's business. There are other people I knew in the book but many had names changed.Betty knew how to capture the life and the feel of living on Vashon. It's like nothing else.
2/2105 Betty MacDonald, author of the Mrs. PiggyWiggle books, wrote this autobiography about her years on Vashon Island during and after WWII. Frankly, I was not drawn to the author, I did not find her humor funny, and I couldn't connect the person she presented in her autobiography with the person who wrote such delightful children's stories.
Covering the years from 1942-1954, this book is comprised of the memories of Betty McDonald, as she and her family made a move to a very unsettled Vashon Island near Puget Sound.
At that time, no roads lead to Vashon Island.
Betty had recently divorced and remarried, bringing to the union her two daughters, ages 12 and 11.
Told with humor, Betty notes the girls even put on lipstick to gather driftwood.
My first clue that it wasn't exactly recent was when Betty noted an increase in prices at a local restaurant to (GASP) over a dollar for a large meal.
Read her. Read her. Read her. Read any of her books. She writes about nothing and you don't care - brilliantly funny.
This is my favorite of her books. I love them all and re-read them all the time.

Almost as good as The Plague and I, and far better than her other two memoirs.
Onions in the Stew stands out as Betty MacDonald's most mature and effortlessly humorous memoir.
It's also seemingly the most unstructured of the four published in her lifetime.
MacDonald is unafraid to be melancholy, though she's never maudlin; she portrays her daughters realistically and to the point of unattractiveness, though her love and affection for them is always clear.
Unsentimental and laugh-out-loud funny, Onions in the Stew is a classic slice of American domestic humor from an era that has vanished entirely, yet has never quite gone out of style.
This cover less, slightly yellowing hard back has come here from my in-laws amongst a collection of "I am not sure what to do withs".
Looking for something, anything, to read I thought I'd blow the dust off and have a go.
I'd not heard of Betty MacDonald, and certainly never come across Vashon Island, so the whole thing has been a google fest of looking things up (didies for example).
I've been shocked by the colour and vitality of the writing, and the life she describes.
Betty is one of my favorite authors and she wrote so few books that I re-read this one about her life with her daughters and second husband on Vashon Island in Washington state at the end of WWII.
She is funny and smart and has the same problems we have with our children even in different time periods.
My favorite book of hers was The Plague and I and talked about her time with TB.
She is best known for her book The Egg and I which was made into a film and covered her first marriage while living on a farm.
What a fun book. I started it years ago in a hotel lobby! It was a Reader's Digest condensed book, and of course I couldn't take it with me. I've looked for a copy of it ever since, off and on. One of the draws of the book is that it takes place close to home, on Vashon Island. The book begins during WWII, so about that time period when the author was raising her two children. It's a hoot. Her descriptions remind me of a couple of friends of mine.
This book is a purely fun, relaxing read about Betty MacDonald's life on Vashon Island, in Puget Sound, with her family during and after World War 2. I don't know exactly why I like this book so much. She really just tells anecdotes about family life. But I really like this book a great deal.
Love, love, love this. Love Betty MacDonald. Love The Egg and I. Love everything she wrote. But then, I am a person who would love to have lived in her era, deluded though that may seem.
Betty MacDonald knows how to pull readers right in to the setting, which in this memoir is primarily Vashon Island, off Puget Sound in Washington.
Particularly funny was going through "the lies" phase with MacDonald and her two teen daughters.
I need to read/listen to the first memoir, The Egg and I, and see if that mystery is solved there.)As with all of MacDonald's memoirs thus far, she gives the readers snippets of the times, dropping prices for things to help with perspective.
all were just glossed over topics, but again, a sign o' the times for when the book was written.As with the other memoirs, the pairing of Betty MacDonald's words with Heather Henderson's narration is perfect.
With her second husband (Don MacDonald) and her two young girls (Joan and Anne), Betty experienced the joys and disappointments of living on an island.
Set during WWII, this mostly autobiographical book recounts Betty’s life with wry humor and insight.Once again, Betty has amused me.
The reality settles in and yet the MacDonalds still find much to love about the island.Betty does such a great job with the humor.
She also did a great job with the voices of Joan and Anne even as they age throughout the book.
With her second husband (Don MacDonald) and her two young girls (Joan and Anne), Betty experienced the joys and disappointments of living on an island.
Set during WWII, this mostly autobiographical book recounts Betty’s life with wry humor and insight.Once again, Betty has amused me.
The reality settles in and yet the MacDonalds still find much to love about the island.Betty does such a great job with the humor.
She also did a great job with the voices of Joan and Anne even as they age throughout the book.
Betty MacDonald’s storytelling is delightful as is the narration.This isn’t my favorite book by Betty MacDonald, but it’s still good.
It’s about her family life on an Vashon Island in Puget Sound with her husband Don and her girls during their trying teen years.Betty had such a great view of everything and everyone.
The narrator, Heather Henderson, has a pleasant voice and I enjoy listening to her.
She has narrated all of the books by Betty MacDonald that I’ve listened to and it was nice to associate her voice with Betty’s stories.I definitely recommend all of these audiobooks by Betty Macdonald.
Since high school when I read Betty MacDonald's The Egg and I, this has been an author whose work I've enjoyed.
I don't recall having read any of them but my childhood was a few decades past and I was then not given to reading.Onions in the Stew, published in 1955, is a humorous recollection of life on Vashon Island.
She tackles with humor the adventures and challenges of raising teenagers, entertaining family and friends, and the ordinary obstacles of living in a remote place among an intriguing cast of characters.
Betty MacDonald died three years after this title was released, so it is also the last glimpse into her quirky life.
This is the fourth Betty book I have listened to, by now I have come to expect a level of sardonic humour along with a big dollop of common sense.
If any books can guarantee to put life into perspective if you are having a ‘down’ day then it has to be a ‘Betty MacDonald’.
Admittedly I preferred the earlier books in the series but this one still stands the test of time.The narrator as usual has a strong comforting voice, speaks clearly and makes it an enjoyable experience to listen to ..
I listened to this book, chuckled a number of times.
I was a little annoyed by the narrator's voice, overly sarcastic at times.This is definitely a "period" book -- smoking, adolescents smoking, some use of phrases and words we never say anymore ("retarded").I enjoyed the book, very light-hearted, nothing deep.
I liked the sense of love I detected from the author for children and others, always welcoming them to her home.
She seems to have a good understanding of personalities.
Of course, I love the setting -- Seattle's Vashon Island.
Now I want to go visit the island with my two girls :-).
I have just finished three of Betty Macdonald’s books without a break in between and I am so glad I discovered them. This title was about her life after marrying the second time and moving to an island with her husband and teen daughters. Her descriptions of island life are very amusing and also eye opening. I often laughed aloud while reading this book and as soon as I finished, I started looking for more.
Hilarious account of PNW island life in the 40s and 50s. If you liked the semi-biographical, anecdotal format of Cheaper by the Dozen, you're likely to love this book, too. Her humor is sarcastic, self-deprecating, and a little irreverent but her love for her children and family really comes through. This is a much better book than The Egg and I, in my opinion.
The author writes with humour about her life with her family when they moved to an island.
