https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662086-f-licie
Years later Chief Inspector Maigret remembers the infuriating housekeeper Félicie.
Although 24, she acts more like a tween, an inveterate liar who stubbornly insists she’ll reveal nothing about the murder of her employer, the retired bookkeeper Jules “Peg Leg” Lapie.
Maigret muses, “She’d given him more trouble than all the hardened criminals in his career.”In Félicie (previously published as Maigret and the Toy Village), Maigret’s instincts prove excellent when he concentrates on the preening, childish housekeeper as the crux of the case.
With the 24th novel in the series, first published in 1944, Georges Simenon has produced yet another gem.
Maigret will never forget Félicie; neither will you.
But that’s not quite true, as in ‘Félicie’ we have a whodunit that does everything it can to break that formula.
It pushes at it, it shoves at it; eventually it punches so hard it nearly breaks it apart, so in the end we have a mystery where a murder is committed and a detective works to find out who committed the crime, but that is actually incidental to the true purpose of the book.
It makes for an odd book, particularly with the murder – normally the raison d'être of any mystery novel – being dumped in the furthest corner of the back seat.
His wider investigation that includes a large number of police officers is shown and a real mystery is at the heart of the book which the reader solves in step with the police investigation.Full of typical Maigret moments, ignoring his wife for the case; leaving his detectives to their tasks and the leg work.
What the TV script couldn't do was show the workings of Maigret's mind and the depth of the wider investigation.
For fans of Maigret this a great book to enjoy his ways and investigative methods especially as initially the young women stonewalls him.
Clever character study of this impertinent 24 year old housekeeper during the investigation into her employer's murder. Stylish and succinct to nuance writing that circles Felicie's motives and operations more than the crime reveal outcome. Our detective is entranced. This is quite erudite in language and accepts a rather dire tone of logic and of human nature. But this is more than the average novella mystery genre fare of the present. Far less on procedure and outcomes, far more on core personality and reaction.
In a literal as well as a figurative sense, she leads the Inspector up the garden path, testing to the utmost his detective skills and sangfroid.” You’re never quite sure what part Felicie plays in this mystery until the very end, but she manages to keep Maigret on a leash the whole time.
There is even a moment when Maigret, caught in a web of deceit, calls out to her: “Felicie, I love you!” This is the only time that I have seen Maigret take the least step against his wife!
Traducción y edición atroces, que destrozan la novela y hacen que la lectura sea un tormento. La historia en sí es simpática, con un Maigret muy humano y una protagonista irritante, cabezota, fantasiosa, lianta y, pese a todo, memorable.
A detective investigating a murder tangles with an odd woman.I really enjoyed this old style detective story – it had plenty of plot twists and turns and was a good quick read.
This was not one of my favourites but the book made a quick, light read.
Not content with sitting down to a leisurely full hot meal after passing a paper-wrapped sandwich off to poor old Lucas who is on 24-hour watch duty, he feels no compunction at lifting a lobster the innkeeper had promised to his hardworking foot soldiers, telling her glibly to find something else for them, while he toddles off to dine in style at the murder victim's house!Written during WW2, the tale of a retired accountant who hated the sea and yet lived in a house called Cape Horn and filled with pictures and prints of tall ships was pure escapism for the author and his readers of the time.
Not the most engaging of Maigret's cases, but a very quick read (less than 4 hours start to finish) and as light entertainments go, pas terrible.
Maigret will drink with a suspect, but expect a police officer to sit outside all night in the rain to make sure the suspect does not leave.The "toy village" in the title is a newly developed residential area where all the houses are new and painted pretty colors.
To Maigret it seems as though these little houses and undeveloped open spaces are like toys.
Is this a difference in detectives or in cultures?I will read more Maigrets, especially if they are all as short as this one, because I like his character and the plots are pretty good too.
His dogged close watch on the reluctant Felicie is full of intrigue, firmness, compassion, and quirky humour - even involving a live lobster for dinner, which he has to tell to be quiet while he is on the phone!
Priceless.The GR blurb:'Peg Leg Lapie, a crusty old sailor, is found mysteriously murdered in a most incongruous setting: a picturesque cottage near Paris, where he lived attended only by his young housekeeper, Felicie.
But Lapie was not alone: Maigret, chief inspector of the Paris police, is sure of it.
But Félicie, in her red hat trimmed with an iridescent feather, proves a champion adversary, as skilled in innuendo and evasion as Maigret is in deduction.'
After a period of several years I have recently gotten four of the Maigret's books and while I always enjoy his writing, this particular story was odd in that its a murder written almost as a comedy with a secondary character -- initially the suspect -- very one-dimensionally.
This character is a young woman who lived as the housekeeper in the murder victim's house and from the very beginning is antagonistic with the police, refusing to answer question and behaving strangely all around.
Unlike Maigret, I didn't find her humorous or interesting -- just a spoiled brat that obviously knew more than she was saying.
Here is what Federico Fellini had to say about Simenon:"How many dreary hours of waiting, disturbing breakups, lonely evenings, and stretches of convalescence the world over have been--at least for the moment--effaced and, as it were, healed by immersion in a Simenon novel."
Maigret is called to a new housing development, the toy village, where an old recluse has been murdered.
He had lived with his young housekeeper, Félicie.
She tends to live in a fantasy world and resents M's investigation.
Is she in love with the the old man's nephew?
He was there shortly before the murder, but did he do it?
The nephew was a club musician so what about some of his low life friends?
The actual police procedure is better developed here than in many of the stories and that made it fun to follow along with.
Una novela de Maigret bastante extraña ya que la trama no gira tanto en torno a quién es el asesino sino a por qué Felicia intenta boicotear al comisario, cuando desde el principio parece que Maigret tiene claro que no está relacionada con la muerte del amo de la casa donde es ama de llaves. Evidentemente al final todo tiene su razón de ser, pero el libro es bastante desesperante por momentos, ya que como lector tampoco acabas de entender nunca los motivos de la co-protagonista.
My favorite so far.Highly recommendIf you want one Maigret to read to get the flavor of the man and his work this is it.The great thing about this series is they all come in at about 5 hours listening time - some even less.They are tightly constructed and real alternatives to the bloated 15 hour books that generally could benefit from a strong editor cutting a quarter to a third out.
The background and character of the victim is rather irrelevant as the book concentrates on his young housekeeper - Félicie.
This girl runs a merry dance around Maigret as she tries to cover up what she knows about how the murder was committed, believing (mistakenly) that her boyfriend is responsible.
He behaves in a very two faced way to extract the information he requires.
In some ways they might have been good matches for each other.
The book is set in a new build village outside of Paris, where the victim has chosen to settle.
I'm a big fan of Simenon. His characters and language are complex. He has a huge knowledge of boats and uses specific terms that I must stop and look up. His mysteries do not answer every question - just like real life. His translator has the hard task of communicating nuanced, advanced language.
A retired sailor is murdered in a remote village. While investigating the crime, Maigret is confronted and confounded by the dead man's housekeeper, Felicie., who knows more than she is willing to tell.
One of the best. And that is of the best detective series.
This book is like the kernel of corn found in your poop: indigestible and messy.
http://speloncalibro.blogspot.it/2007...
Maigret, as usual, lets his brain do the work as he persists with a difficult witness to a murder.
Imperturbable Maigret.In an isolated village.With a murder, and a hysterical young woman.What will happen??
Ventiquattresimo romanzo dedicato al Commissario Maigret. Non lo conoscevo e l'ho trovato semplicemente delizioso. La protagonista sembra uscita dal film "Il favoloso mondo di Amélie".
Another pleasurable Maigret. It just doesn't get better.
Good but not his finestBig, big fan of the Maigret series. Good but not quite 5 stars. Won't stop me reading others though as four stars is still a good rating.
It is primarily concerned with Maigret's relationship with the enigmatic Félicie, a young woman whose employer, a retired sailor, has been murdered.
Maigret also discovers that Félicie is a formidable foe who tells lies and the truth with equal skill.
Even years later, Maigret's police colleagues taunt him with the phrase, "Félicie's here!" "Everyone knew that Maigret always began growling like a bear whenever anyone reminded him of Félicie, who had given him more trouble than all the 'hard' men who had been put behind bars courtesy of the inspector."The plot simply didn't click for me, because we never meet two of the most instrumental characters in the book but only learn about them in a rush at the end of the story.
I've read a couple of dozen novels by Simenon, his roman durs as well as his Maigret novels, of which this is one. Usually a novel by Simenon makes for compulsive reading, and once you've finished one, you want to crack open another immediately. . . Not so, Félicie, which is easily--and surprisingly--the weakest of anything I've read by him. Only 152 pages with fairly large type and it *still* reads like a padded short story--but padding won't get this book a second look. The writing feels forced and clichéd throughout.
The toy village is a planned development, Jeanneville Estates, in Poissy, a suburb of Paris. The contrast between this synthetic world and the real neighborhoods of Paris mirrors the contrast between Félicie's flamboyant assumed personalities and her real self, which emerges gradually in the course of Maigret's relationship with her. It is this relationship which yields the solution to the murder. Maigret's love-hate relationships with witnesses or culprits are always amusing and enlightening to observe - this is no exception.
Another fine 'Maigret' novel from Simenon. This one is slightly different in feel, primarily because it is written in the present tense, but also because of the character of Felicie, who is one of the more unusual protagonists in Maigret's world. The 'Maigret' novels published in the 1940s are, for me at least, when Simenon was writing at his best: they have all the raw vitality of the early books in the series, but are more deeply written; and are fresher than the later books in the series.
