https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389634.Nuremberg_Diary
Lo psicologo americano G.M. Gilbert seguì i 23 grandi criminali di guerra nazisti durante il processo di Norimberga.Non erano degli stupidi.
intelligenti e malvagi, verrebbe da dire.Gilbert conversò con loro in cella, li ascoltò nei corridoi, seguì gli scambi di battute fra gli imputati, li osservò e li studiò per capire come fosse stato possibile, per questi uomini, aderire al movimento nazista e compiere i crimini di cui erano accusati.
Hanno subito un processo che essi, nei giorni del loro splendore, non hanno mai garantito a nessun uomo…”12 dei principali imputati verranno condannati a morte per impiccagione, fra cui Goering che però si suiciderà prima dell’esecuzione.
I have read the parts of Gilbert's book having to do with Schacht.
This includes the record of testimony and the comments of Schacht and other defendants about that testimony.
It is a fascinating record, based on Gilbert's unique access to all of the Nuremberg defendants.
It raises questions about the veracity of Schacht's protestations as reported in his own memoir, which I just read and reviewed ...
There are hints in the comments of other defendants who disparaged Schacht's testimony that he needed the job.
I will of course read more of Gilbert's excellent report later.
Before laying my thoughts on the importance of this book, this recorded History by Dr. Gilbert it is in my view important to understand what the basis of not only the trial meant at the end of the war but for the innocent victims of the Concentration Camps.
Herman Goering: Guilty on all 4 counts; Death by Hanging; committed suicide before judgement had been rendered; the Lutheran Chaplain refused to provide last rites as Goering never admitted anything of wrong doing and his pompous style was indicative of the drug addict he was and remained to the very end.2.
But, after all, it is the leaders of the country who determine the policy and it is always a simple matter to drag the people along, whether it is a democracy or a fascist dictatorship or a Parliament or a Communist dictatorship.""There is one difference," I pointed out.
"In a democracy the people have some say in the matter through their elected representatives, and in the United States only Congress can declare war.""Oh, that is all well and good, but, voice or no voice, the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders.
The personalities of these men are shrouded in history for me with much of my impressions gleamed from TV and movies, both documentary and fiction.
He also interviewed them after sentencing.
There is a TV documentary series that utilizes much of the material contained here.
I think the title is Trial at Nuremeberg and it does a good job of bringing the trial to life (of course and as usual, the book is better.) Some of the acting is a little hammy but overall it's worth watching if you're so inclined.
I saw this book's title in the credits and decided to get the book.
This book is extremely interesting and was written by American psychologist GM Gilbert who was assigned as prison psychologist for the first Nuremberg trials - the Nazi leaders.One of the most interesting parts is the transcript of the reactions of the prisoners on first watching the atrocity films.
Well, I am quite sure Goering was not the nicest of men, but after reading the book, and following it up with some other reading (and films) on the same subject I have come to this conclusion: these trials were seeking justice for all that was committed by the Nazis during WWII.

Gilbert makes no overt judgement or analysis on the defendants throughout the book yet makes his opinions amply clear to anyone who has eyes for it.

This book consists of a series of psycho-biographies of the major Nazi leaders tried in Nuremberg after WWII conducted by Captain G.M. Gilbert, a US psychologist assigned to interview, test and study them. Transcripts of interviews, essays by the prisoners and intelligence test results are included. It is well-written and, by contemporary standards, charmingly innocent given the fact that the primary offense the prisoners were accused of was that of unprovoked aggression, a war crime conducted repeatedly by the leadership of the USA and other great powers.
Co prawda część z nich próbowała go rozgrywać licząc na jego wstawiennictwo, ale zupełnie nie da się odczuć, żeby mimo różnicy pozycji traktowali go jako gorszego niż oni sami.
Goering, który zastraszał innych oskarżonych, żeby nie składali zeznań obciążających go i Rzeszę.
Oczywiście to czy wojskowy ma prawo odmówić rozkazu, który uważa za niemoralny i nieskończenie zły jest zupełnie inną kwestią, która też był omawiana podczas posiedzeń.
Ciekawą sprawą są też komentarze oskarżonych dotyczące ataku na Polskę oraz samej Polski jak na przykład stwierdzenie, że Polacy nie umieją się sami rządzić.
While the prisoners' comments themselves were interesting, Dr. Gilbert's analysis and comments on the situation is extremely distracting.
I would have much preferred if Dr. Gilbert merely presented the comments and actions done by the prisoners and let the reader make their own decision about that particularly prisoner.
If anything, after awhile, I began to skip over Dr. Gilbert's own comments and just read the comments made by the prisoners.
In short, I much preferred Dr. Gilbert's colleague, Leon Goldensohn, and his interviews he did with the prisoners.
It is interesting to read to what lengths the defendants will go to in the attempt to absolve themselves of any blame for the atrocities that were committed in which they were either directly responsible for or had a part in and try to shift the blame to others whether they be the co-defendants or not.
One would expect such highly placed and powerful people to admit their part in what happened but when it came down to it they were just as petty as you would expect anyone else to be.
The exception being Speer who was the only one that pleaded guilty.
Fascinating primary resource that delves into the psyche of the most notorious Nazi perpetrators at the first of many post-WWII trials.
This was an extremely interesting read, and a fascinating insight into how key players in the third reich tried washing their hands of all atrocities.
Took time to finish this book as it is an intense read.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants to read about WWII.It was very interesting to see how little the defendants (most of them) felt responsible for the war, the atrocities and what not.
How some of them were still loyal to the murderer Fuhrer and how some of them pretended to be loyal as that has been their life for past 30+ years.The most interesting part of the book is Goering's attitude, his false pride/ ego, the way he tries to intimidate other defendants even though he is as powerless as they are, the way he cheats execution by suicide and many more.A very interesting and well written book by Mr. Gilbert and a must read for anyone interested in reading about WWII.
Quite interesting.
This is the diary of the prison psychologist assigned to monitor the Nazi war criminals on a daily basis during the trial.
Plus there was Hess who at one point claimed he was malingering amnesia, but the author eventually comes to believe that he was really quite impaired.
But once he'd admitted malingering, they never raised the issue of competency again, believing it would be unlikely to be taken seriously.
So overall it was an interesting read both from a forensic point of view and from a general psychological point of view.
This book is a fascinating inside look at the highest stratum of the indicted Nazi regime.
Dr. Gilbert provides almost daily accounts of the prisoners' reactions to the events of their trials and provides a glimmer of humanity to some of the greatest monsters to have been spawned in modern, western history.
Read the text with the understanding that Gilbert was the American-born son of Austrian Jews.
Therefore, the inherent bias is obvious in some of his observations.
I recommend this book highly for anyone curious about the remorse of lack thereof in the Nazi mind post war.
Uno psicologo americano al processo di Norimberga. Il diario dei suoi incontri con i leader nazisti sotto accusa. Si rimane colpiti, leggendo i resoconti di questi incontri, dalla mancanza assoluta di presa di coscienza dei crimini commessi. Goering, Hess, Ribbentrop e Co. sono molto occupati da sé stessi, da come appaiono, da cosa pensano gli altri imputati di loro, oppure a criticarsi l'un altro.Inesistente un'introspezione personale, un'elaborazione di quanto commesso, dei sensi di colpa, rimorso.Eppure erano uomini come noi.
Written with admirable restraint by a psychologist who gives us limited insights into the minds of Goerring, Hess, von Ribbentrop, and the others high in the Nazi hierarchy, this book is in essence a collection of case histories written as the Nuremberg trials progressed, and ending with final interviews of the criminals right before their executions. Its use is as primary material, not as sociological, theological, moral, or psychoanalytic analysis, which the author largely avoids.
As a Prison Psychologist at the Nuremberg trials, Gilbert had unparalleled access to the top surviving members of the Nazi Leadership. From Göering's attempts to liken the Holocaust to America's race troubles, Jodl's shock at being tried for War Crimes and Ribbentrop's admission that he'd follow Hitler all over again, this is a riveting look at the leadership of Germany in World War II. Anyone who ascribes to "Never Again" should read this book.
A close insight into the hearts and minds of Nazis on trial at Nuremberg by a psychologist who was tasked with keeping them sane and willing to defend themselves and accept the crimes of the NSDAP (by for example separating them for lunch so that Goering would not have so much influence on the others etc.). Composed of shortened diary entries.
Very good read about the trials at Nuremberg. Not the historical perspective of Persico, but a psychologists thoughts and story of spending over a year with some of the most vile leaders of the Third Reich. He reminds us through his book these men were human.
who doesn't love reading about how insane the Nazis were? My favorite part was Goering defensively insisting that anyone can make an atrocity video, all you need to do is dig up a bunch of corpses, pile them up, and show a bulldozer pushing them into a pit. It doesn't mean anything.
Jedna z lepszych książek, które do tej pory czytałam. Trudna lektura, ale dla zainteresowanych tematyką konieczna!
I really enjoyed this book. It gave an inside look in the minds of the prisoners on trial at Nuremberg. Very interesting read.
An interesting look at the Nuremberg defendants outside the trial. Although Gilbert lays on some psychoanalysis (that is his job after all), I think the words of the Germans speak for themselves.
bardzo interesująca publikacja pokazująca proces od innej strony. Rozmowy z więźniami pokazują inną twarz tych ludzi, czasem pokazują chwile gdy oskarżeni uzmysławiają sobie okrucieństwa tej wojny.
Before I started reading this book, I guess I had too much expectation and hence did not like it very much but a very good account of the Nuremberg Trials nevertheless.
