https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91357.The_Devil_s_Arithmetic
The idyllic shtetl world at the beginning of Chaya's story would have been long gone by 1942 -- by that time, all the Jews left alive in Poland were in ghettos, in concentration camps or in hiding.
Yolen should have revealed her use of a made-up camp at the beginning, and she shouldn't have used the Auschwitz sign.If you want to look for some better books on the Holocaust for children, try any of Uri Orlev's, or Jerry Spinelli's Milkweed, or Livia Bitton-Jackson's memoir I Have Lived a Thousand Years, or...well, quite a few books are better than this one.
This semester I am requiring my students to read The True Story of Hansel and Gretel, a novel takes place in Poland during World War II. The good news is that my students love the book; in fact, several of them are reading ahead. The shocking fact, the bad news, is what they don’t know. It is not just knowledge of history that they lack; it is knowledge of basic geography. God bless PowerPoint and blackboard. To be fair, my students do ask intelligent questions, yet the lack of basic knowledge i
The good news is that my students love the book; in fact, several of them are reading ahead.
Let’s face it, the wrong text book and/or the wrong teacher can make history very boring, and sometimes people just don’t like learning about history for a variety of reasons.
Curiosity and a desire to learn are fueled by a variety of things; interest is one of them.The Devil’s Arithmetic is precisely the type of book that for young readers can help history seem more real and, perhaps, get a reader interested in history.
Yes, it was about the Holocaust and the epic tragedy that occurred, but I think it was more about understanding and respecting where you come from, and not letting trivial everyday teenage life get in the way of honoring your past.***SPOILERS BELOW***Ultimately, I gave this one 4 stars only because the book never really explained who/where Chaya was really.
It seems to me that Hannah should only have had 2 sets of memories if Chaya was not in there somewhere.
Hannah and her family are celebrating Passover. When Hannah opens the door to look for Elijah, she is transported back in time to 1942 Poland, as the Nazi's are rounding up the Jews for the final solution. Chaya (Hannah) tries to warn her family and friends what is happening, but to no avail as history marches ahead anyway. This book is primarily aimed at younger readers. Yolen's afterword is a highlight.
And, unlike some young adult books that I enjoyed as young as nine or ten years old, I wouldn’t give this to kids until they were at least 12.It is a wonderful story and, because the main character, an American Jewish girl who’s 12 years old, is from the present time (even though the book was written twenty years ago, it still has a sufficiently modern feel) readers can perhaps empathize with her and the experiences she has when she goes back in time to Poland during the Nazi holocaust.
Even readers who do not normally enjoy history or historical fiction will probably appreciate this book because the time travel nature of the story allows a contemporary young person to truly experience events of the past.
Twelve year old Hannah is sick of spending Passover 'remembering' the past with her relatives.
Throughout the book, she struggles with memory - which memories are real (the future or the now), remembering anything b/c of the trauma of the camp, futilely trying to use her future-memory to warn those around her, etc.The story is chilling.
And it is an amazing combination of historical fiction and s/f.Some of my favorite quotations:"Passover isn't about eating, Hannah," her mother began at last, sighing and pushing her fingers through her silver-streaked hair.
Yolen employs a "Magic Tree House" trope to move her main character, Hannah, a bored American thirteen-year-old at her family's Seder dinner, through time, space and language, and it comes off as hokey.
Once Hannah becomes Chaya, an orphan living in a Polish village in 1942, though, this tale grabs onto the reader and doesn't let go.
Hannah opens the door of her family's apartment to welcome the prophet Elijah and is soon crammed into a crowded cattle car with other Jews on a train destined for the "final solution." Yolen makes such a narrative more than a recounting of horror and the inhumanity of humanity with strong characters and a strong story.
Summary: When Hannah opens the door during Passover Seder to symbolically welcome the profit Elijah, she suddenly finds herself in the unfamiliar world of a Polish village i the 1940's.
Hannah had always complained about listening about listening to her relatives tell the same stories of the Holocaust over and over, but now she finds herself in terrifying situation.
I remember thinking that Passover Seders were boring when I was younger.
I think this would be an excellent book to use in the classroom during the study of the Holocaust to show the students a different perspective.
Anyone and everyone should read this book!
It's a very fast read because it was written for children but it tells a beautiful story and has a great twist in the end.
The Devil's Arithmetic is about a young Jewish girl who doesn't quite understand her family's past.
She finds Jewish holidays and celebrations to be boring and is unappreciative of the hardships Jews have faced.
She is mysteriously transported to the past and ends up in a concentration camp.
Here she suffers the hardships first hand and begins to understand and appreciate her family's history.
Heads up, it's a tear-jerker!
The Devil’s Arithmetic is a moving and heartbreaking young adult fantasy/historical fiction novella grounded in the real events that happened during the Holocaust. However, I found the first half of the book to be tortuously slow and boring.
Five stars for the plot device used to tell this story.
This is aimed at very young readers and so the grisly subject matter must be presented in a way that allows them to read it without ruining their sleep.
Having the main character, a modern day, young Jewish girl, living in New Rochelle, transported back in time does this splendidly.My three star review is because I didn't feel the story was written very well after that initial stroke of genius.
I must admit that part of this could be that I was expecting a book aimed at teens and this was clearly meant for even younger readers, but I still struggled through after the set up.
What would I do if the government came for me or for my neighbors?I know it's not the purpose of the book--but it did make me want to go out and buy a gun for the first time in my life.
If the Jews had been armed, it would have been a different story.Anyway, this was a good book and it made you think--although I go back and forth as to whether it should really be in the juvenile section.
I mean, if I had trouble sleeping after reading this book, it might be too much for a young child to handle.
So, during school (L.A) we're learning about World War II and the Holocaust, I've always wanted to learn more about both topics.
My teacher suggested this book to me, and I'm happy that she did.
I've never, so far, read a book like this in my life.
First of all, this was the first Holocaust book I've read.
I just love how this book starts and ends, sort of like a circular ending.
Most books wont make me shed tears but this one did.
I really enjoyed this book, and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a good Holocaust book.
After reading the synopsis I immediately put the book on hold to pick up the following day.
I read it in one fell swoop!
I read everything my kids read, and I’m glad that my son had the chance to read this ( or still reading).
I think that all kids of appropriate age should read this book because it’s real, it’s what happened and children were involved.
I get age appropriate, but books such as this one can teach them to appreciate the life that has been handed to them.
This book is really good!! It's about a Jewish little girl transported to 1942 Poland and is captured by the Nazi's and brought to a concentration camp. This book gives us more information about what everyday life was like. I prefer that people read this book!!
. There are undoubtedly small inaccuracies which older readers, in particular, might find frustrating, but the spirit of the book matters more to me given the themes and audience of the story.No matter how many times you read or hear about the Holocaust, the full horror of it remains utterly debilitating.I’m giving it four stars instead of five for a few reasons.
I’m not sure there’s an age when a child is “ready” to be exposed to that sort of horror, but The Devil’s Arithmetic is not a book I would give to anyone under twelve or thirteen.Effective, touching, haunting, and sometimes poetic, this short novel is worth a few hours of your time even if you fall outside its target audience.
But this year's Passover holds a big surprise for Hannah.When she goes to open the door to let Elijah in, Hannah suddenly finds herself transported back in time to a Polish shetl in 1942, where her name is Chaya Abramowitz and she is living with her Aunt Gitl and Uncle Schmuel.
The randomness of life for Jews under the Nazis is captured so well, as it the horror their methods, yet not to the point where it is so graphic it would turn kids away from the book or from learning about the Holocaust, but it does help understand at least the how of what happened.And yes, Hannah does remember what she had learned about the Holocaust in school and home, but little by little she finds her memory fading.
These memories include remembering the Holocaust.The book opens with Hannah being reminded why she celebrates Passover.
"Passover isn't about eating, Hannah....It's about remembering." (p.4) Once Hannah is transported back into time and begins living the life of Chaya she reflects on the things she's learned at family dinners and in classrooms.
72) When she reaches the concentration camp, she's told she must remember her new identity.
"This you must remember, for if you forget it, life is gone indeed.'" (p.
100) Once Hannah returned to present day life, she discovered that her aunt was her old friend in the concentration camp.
(Not the time traveling, the concentration camp.) It is about a Jewish girl, Hannah, who is at a passover dinner, when she goes through a door and finds herself in 1942.
She makes five friends; Rachel, Shirfre, Ester, Yente, and Rivka.
Rivka is not from the village, and they meet her at the concentration camp.
Hannah swapps places with Rivka to save her and gets gassed, but just before she dies she goes back to the present.
It turns out that Aunt Eva was saved by her friend, Chaya, at a concentration camp.
Having read quite a few nonfiction accounts of the concentration camps and other horrors of the Nazi regime, I found this book very readable, a story that makes the camps and the people in them real, without the story feeling preachy or flat.
Yolen does a great job of balancing the horror and hopelessness of the situation Holocaust victims found themselves in, while still maintaining a glimmer of hope throughout, since the story is told from the perspective of a descendant of a survivor who somehow not only was not destroyed by the camps and the Nazis, but who went on to have a family and a good life afterwards.
But when Hannah is chosen to open the door to welcome the prophet Elijah as part of the celebration, she finds herself transported to another time and another country where a strange family calls her Chaya.
Soon after arriving in this strange place, men in uniforms gather everyone in the community together and put them in trucks, and only Hannah knows where the trucks are going.This was a really good book, and the story was well told.
I think it would definitely be a good book for kids to read to learn about the Jewish concentration camps in Nazi Germany.
Summary: The book The Devil's Arithmetic is a book about a girl named Hannah who during Seder dinner gets transported to the past during the beginning of the Holocaust.
Hannah becomes a girl named Chaya who's family is being to be transfered to a concentration camp.
Little does she know, the friend she saves turns out to be her aunt when she gets transfered back to her current time.
This book is not a beginning Holocaust book.
I first read this book when I was 10, and was horrified since I didn't know much about the Holocaust.
What a good story. What a good reminder.  So often we get caught up in the busyness of daily life, and we forget. We forget that there has been so much suffering. And while it's not the same type of suffering, there are people all around us that are tormented in one way or another, and that need our empathy and sympathy.  As Winston Churchill is quoted as saying "Those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it", I ask: what will we learn if we choose to not study and choose to forget?
I read this with my daughters 6th grade reading group. I really liked the way that they introduced the story through the main characters eyes and how she "experienced" what her Grandpa and Aunt had gone through being Jewish and taken to the concentration camps. This was a great book for a 5th or 6th grader to read about this time period in history.
Most of Yolen's work that I"ve read so far has been fairy tale related - including other work centered around the Holocaust. So I was a bit surprised that this has only a mild time-traveling plot device but no fairy tales or any other fantastical elements at all. But I still really loved it, as I do most of Yolen's work.
I would have much more enjoyed this book had I read it in middle school or even high school. While it is too simply put for me now, I think it would have hit me hard as a preteen/teenager, and I definitely would suggest it to a younger crowd.
This book captivated me from beginning to end. The story flowed as if a conductor were actually standing before an entire band conducting a piece of music from Mozart. Such a strong story.
It was a pretty boring book. It took a while to get good and when it did get good it wasn't all that great, and it didn't last that long. Overall, it was an ok book.
Couldn't get into it. Struck me as a bit clunky and definitely wore its didactic heart too much on its sleeve.
The author uses literary elements like imagery and situational irony.
I really liked this book, but if you don't know what the Holocaust was then you might have a hard time reading it.
Overall, this book is an emotional roller coaster and should be read by teens and adults.The Devil's Arithmetic has spectacular use of imagery.
Another example of this is when Hannah saw a child's body in the camp, "Little Tzipporah lay curled in a ball, her finger in her mouth like a stopper in a bottle" (pg 106).
Jane Yolen uses some literary elements like similes, imagery, and situational irony.
