https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29811.Little_Pilgrim_s_Progress
I am not a fan of rewritings or abridgments and I HAVE read the original Pilgrim's Progress several times but I still can't help enjoying this retelling.
Nesbit's Beautiful Stories from Shakespeare is to Shakespeare's plays.
As with the real Pilgrim's Progress, the first part is better but there are some wonderful highlights in the second half and we do come to love Mercy, Great Heart, and the boys in Part 2.
This is not a book that will be loved by everyone but it is a great introduction for the 10 and under crowd to the stories from a great classic and it is not painful for adults to read either.
It stayed pretty true to the original storyline and still teaches them a lot of Godly Christian principles that is told more simply.
The 1st one is that they took out the part of Christian fighting Apollyon and put instead that he fought a wicked soldier named Self.
Then when Christian was wounded instead of applying leaves of the tree of life on his wounds he had a dream his mother came to him and then he woke up healed.
I would still recommend this book but more to unbelieving children to teach them more about life and God.
Some books demand a film adaptation or a miniseries--This book demands a puppet show from a tired Sunday school teacher.
I checked this out to read to Davis. I'd read about it in literature: Little Women, Jane Eyre, etc. Once I started reading it to him I couldn't believe I'd never read the original version. So, then I looked at John Bunyan's original and I understood why - it's almost as unreadable (for pleasure) as Shakespeare. Helen Taylor has helped new generations enjoy this Classic.
Hahaha where do I start?
Ok, I'm a Christian and I do love books.1.
The preface is..wow.
Helen Taylor; are you serious?
Helen, you have no earthly clue what you're talking about.3.
This is the only book I've read with no Copyright page/Library of Congress number.
Because Helen has no right to copy it.4.
Apparently, Helen L.
Taylor enjoys the word "little" and "vex".5.
The rest of it was pretty well written, but I couldn't get over the preface.I haven't read the original Pilgrim's Progress, but I can't stand the lopsided characters.
Because, Christians aren't perfect, plain and simple.
I wanted to read this book because one of my foster kiddos really loved it, and I wanted to see why she was so enamored with it. As a Christian I really enjoyed it, it was rich in a beautiful 'word pictures' about our journey with Christ. It was easy for me to understand these analogies because of my life as a Christian, however I question whether or not young children, or non-Christians, would understand them. This is why I only gave it 3 stars.
This was an excellent retelling of the classic story of Christian and his companions on their journey to the Celestial City. Christina's story is included as well. I read this with my 9 and 7 year old boys in preparation for next reading the original language of Bunyan. They always begged for more and are excited to read it again!
My husband loves this book because he had it read to him when he was little. I'm thinking that though the original may be more difficult to read, one might care more about the characters and what happens to them as they go along. Notwithstanding, I love anything that points people to God.
Excellent way to make Pilgrim's Progress accessible to the young or to those who are needing the milk of the gospel and not the heaviest meatiest parts. It still has deep doctrine, but it's 'milked down' shall we say. Easier to grasp, I suppose.
It was a fun way to do devotions. We talked about what the different chapters and characters represented. - Caleb age 9
Superior to the original in every way, this updated version retells the classic in short chapters that make great bedtime stories. My oldest was completely caught up in the story, and now refers to places of commercialism as 'vanity fair.' I think it will serve her well to have this allegory in her imagination. (I, for one, found the original pretty boring and tedious so I was glad to find a children's version that she liked, because it is a children's story in my opinion.)
Excellent. Broken up into really short chapters so our girls could follow. Read it!
Little Pilgrim is on his way to the Celestial City.
He barely escapes from the Slough of Despond.
He has to pass by two lions.
(It had been one of my favorite parts) When they pass through a city, they are imprisoned and his friend Faithful is martyred and angels carry him to Celestial City.
Little Pilgrim continues on his journey.This was a favorite read as a child.
My favorite part came when he arrived at Celestial City and is reunited to his mother.
I wanted to read more about what it was like in Celestial City.
This is the book I was looking for - a well written work/adaptation of Pilgrim's Progress that allows children to understand Christian's journey with all the parables, symbols, and characters of the original. My five year old asks for MORE MORE MORE chapters every time we read. It was supposed to be a bedtime book but has turned into an every-free-minute-we-have book. The chapters are short and easy, the illustrations engaging (enough), and the message is permeating their hearts and minds. The Celestial City has become the topic of their play.
An instant classic for children. Little Pilgrim's Progress has the same plot of ideals as John Bunyan's full version, but is easier to understand and more colorful and friendly. Some of the situations and characters have been adjusted but the core meaning and story has been unchanged.
Technically, we only finished the first half - Christian's story. We will get back to Christiana's story some day, but the boys wanted to be done for a while. I think this does a good job of making the story accessible to kids, and they really enjoyed it.
A babysitter read this with me at night when I was about 12, and I have been looking for a copy ever since. This simple religous allegory is a story of overcoming life's obstacles through faith, perseverance, and fellowship. Great for anyone with a belief in good, even if not quite in God.
I love this edition of the classic Pilgrim's Progress. Taylor does a great job at making the language more accessible for young readers (and old ones who like it simple :0) I'm about half way through it now.
I read this to my students every year! It's one of my favorites.
1-1/2 stars The book: So simplistic. So boring. So repetitive. Me: So glad it's over.
Good. The first time through in January of 1982, I thought it was better than that.
Great family read alouds!
Perfect at any age.
loved this when I was younger...it took me a while before I saw what it really meant
I saw this book recommended by many mothers on an Ambleside Online FB page, as a way to start PP with younger children to ensure they understand it.
And the fact that the pilgrimage is the life of a Christian, and the temptations they face, but is so completely final is problematic as well.
If it was simply (or primarily) an adventure story, it would be easy to accept that because she's a little girl she requires a protector.
All told, it was a good book, and I will be happy to read it to my children in a few years as an introduction to the original Pilgrim's Progress.
Initially I thought it was an abridged version of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress but it ended up being a children's version of the novel, with children as the main characters.
Now I want to read Bunyan's own version and see the difference between the two.
It certainly could be a great children's novel for parents to read to their kids at bedtime and then explain how the Christian life is like that.At first, I was dismayed at the lack of community present in the pilgrim's life.
All in all, this book is a great allegory of the Christian life and does an extremely good job of portraying it well.
I read it aloud to my children and it was just wonderful.
I’m in my 40s and have never read the original so I was quite captivated by the story.
I was filled with much anticipation as we read.
He drew pictures for every chapter we read and he really resonated with Christian and his armor of God. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an inspirational account of our spiritual journey through life towards heaven/Jesus.
Of course after reading it, I can see why.
I’m excited to read the original version now and maybe an audio dramatized version too...
Christian - 4 1/2 stars the first half (little Christian’s story); 3 1/2 stars the second half (little Christiana’s story)Julia - 5 stars for whole bookMe - 5 stars.
I thought I might like the second half 4 stars but the last couple of chapters were beautiful.
Christian actually finished reading the second half on his own and still wanted me to read it out loud.
This is a book that can be read and reread.
We are now reading The Dangerous Journey and arbsime point I’d like to read the adult version.
Read this book to my older two when they were younger and now read it again to my kids so the younger two could hear it.
They like following the journey of Christian and Christiana as they face the trials of following the Way of the King to get to the Celestial City.
The author did a great job at taking the original classic with the hard to understand language and preserving the symbols, imagery, and analogy of the Christian life while transcribing the book into simpler modern language for children to understand.
A highly recommend it for all Christian families.
I first read this book just before turning seven and was in love. My imagination was so much more vivid then- I read it now and fall back into the images I first conceived of, out of nowhere it seems, every detail and light-speck of the path leading from the City of Destruction and the gate... very strangeQuite didactic language, but because it is instrumental (sorta self-aware) rather than a stylistic device or anachronism it doesn't grate at all.... jolly good!!:)
