https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826852.The_Singing_Tree
In The Singing Tree, Kate's and Jansci's fathers go off to war (WWI), and the two cousins, who are now teenagers, take care of the family farm in the Hungarian steppes, as well as their grandparents, some neighbors who need a place to stay, six Russian POWs, and six German children who are refugees.My reaction to this book as a teenager was "meh"; I didn't care for the more serious tone of this book.
Seredy's illustrations, as always, are gorgeous.Both The Good Master and The Singing Tree are Newbery Honor books.
Coming to the end of this beautiful story is quite painful as you read the words of hope as WWI comes to an end and Ms. Seredy publishes this book just as WWII is getting a start.
And she is not afraid to address the darker themes that led to WWI (a war that we are still fighting on some fronts, in my opinion) and it was so heartbreaking to have her throw around terms like holocaust, with a small h, without understanding what that word would come to mean..
But, if I am going to read a book about war, I want it to be this kind of book with so much hope and love and acceptance.
Usually I hate when war comes in books because everything's better without war, right?
One thing I loved about the book was the running theme that people are alike: Hungarians, Germans, Russians.
Another thing I enjoyed is that while our main characters Jancsi and Kate were teen-aged, they were still very much innocent and child-like.
This book was published in 1939, right before WWII started.
Did she somehow know what was to come?After I read The Good Master I concluded that more people should be reading it, and I'm going to say the same about this sequel.
We read this as our "fun readaloud" at the end of Whatchamacallit (Morning Time) and it was a hit with the children often begging for more into their break time.The book shows a family, small at first, that expands and opens it's home in love during very troubled times.
Mother is a source of love and comfort, strength in a different way, always willing to open her home to more people - from extended family to Russian POWs to German children to others in need - and creatures alike.
I have rarely read more beautiful descriptive language - certainly not sustained throughout a book as Seredy's.
A sequel to The Good Master this book takes Hungary into the First World War and we see how this effects our two intrepid main characters. No longer children Kate and Jancsi spend their middle teen years learning to be adults. Family goes to war, and the family take in Russian prisoners of war and German war orphans. I am saddened this is the last time I will spend with this farming family living on the Hungarian plains.
I read this until our copy fell apart.
A personal tale (the author is retelling her childhood) of the shift from the farms of rural Hungary to the effects of WWI. The Jewish storekeeper having faith that this war will help keep his people safe for good, the Russian prisoners of war working in the farm and being grateful to be there, safe from the battlefield, the soldiers coming home changed and shell shocked, the solidity of community and family...
I read this aloud to my kids. We thought that there was no way that it could be as good as “The Good Master,” but it exceeded our expectations! This was a beautiful story about the destruction and darkness of war, but it was also full of love, laughter, and human kindness shown to all humans without thought of language, religion, or heritage. What a powerful message of love and acceptance. This is the type of book that makes you want to be a better person.
Read it and remember that it was published in October 1939, at the very start of World War II.
It tells a tale of the first great war, the "war to end all wars," but what can we, as modern readers, think when we read Moses Mandelbaum's words to Márton Nagy: "This makes me sure now...for the first time sure, that [his brothers] Joseph and Sam have not died in vain.
A new day is coming, Márton, for us, for all nations.
No more wars, Márton.
The family stories are still wonderful and show the maturing of the children from the earlier book, but this is no light read.
This is the sequel to The Good Master.
The characters are lovable amidst the very difficult time of the first World War in Hungary.
We were fully engrossed in the setting and time period and loved the message that deep down, all peoples are the same when their hearts are good.I was often in tears as I read this to my kids, simply from the goodness in it as well as because of the sadness of the war.
But we all also laughed aloud many times because of the joy the characters and their interactions brought to the story.
Life on the Hungarian plains in the 1900s. Life on the sweet plains sounds great until a war breaks though all of Europe. Next thing you know you and your cousin must grow up very quickly to make a living on the farm. This book takes you in the life of Jansci and Kate on the Hungarian plains while taking care of Russians and Germans along with friends and family.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.A sequel to The Good Master, this book departs from the warmth and safety of its predecessor and meditates instead upon the encroachment of violence into the daily lives of ordinary people.
Kate and Jancsi also maintain their unbiased kindness toward others when they welcome German and Russian prisoners into their home.What makes this book incredibly poignant, however, is the fact that it was written prior to World War II.
Neither the characters nor the author are yet aware of all the violence yet to come in Nazi Germany, and of how many homes and lives will be destroyed by the second world war.
Jancsi and Kate are cousins (preteens at the beginning of the book) who ride horses, take care of chickens, and get into trouble together on Jancsi’s father’s farm in the Hungarian countryside.
All the characters from the first book are enjoying life together, working on the farm and spending time with family, even attending a traditional Hungarian wedding.
Eventually, there are twenty family members and refugees who call the Nagy farm home.I was surprised at how many of the issues that war presents were tackled head-on, as well as women's rights issues.Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
I also read and loved this one as a child, but it's not the unadulterated fun of The Good Master.
Instead of the antics of childhood this book captures those moments when children begin to grow up.
Jansci becomes known as The Young Master and Kate moves back and forth from childishness to responsibility.
I also love that this book isn't just about the young people, but the older generations are well-represented, too.
War, of course, is an important part of the book, but I love how Seredy manages to show people on both sides as people.
All of Seredy's books are well-written and should be more widely read.
I grew up rereading THE GOOD MASTER (prequel) because of the wholesome story, the beautiful illustrations, the delightful prosperity of the Hungarian ranchers.
It's not as comforting as THE GOOD MASTER, but this one is much more satisfying to the soul.
Kate Seredy has a lot more to work with in this book, with WWI as the backdrop.
One of my favorite war books is RILLA OF INGLESIDE, which also takes place during WWI.
It's been several days since I've finished THE SINGING TREE, and I keep thinking about how Jancsi and Kate would have had to deal with WWII in their lifetime.
We all loved this book.
Russian chicken, Hungarian chicken...all same.My boys have repeated parts of the book to each other many times.
They were always eager to read it and often chose to read it before our other books.
(For reference the boys are 11, 11, 8 and 5....and yes, the 5-year-old sat quietly and loved it as much as his brothers.)Touching.
A true living book.
We'll read this for sure the next time around and we just might seek out the rest of the series and perhaps others by this author.I'm sure I'll be hearing "li'l devil eat like two li'l piggies!" for years to come!
Also that people wanted their sons to be made prisoners, because it meant they'd be out of the war - I suppose this is 20 years before concentration camps and stuff, and they're not in POW camps but sent to be on farms.
Isn't this lovely: the mother in this book says that they must take good care of their PoWs and make them feel at home, because they'll write home too and say that we are kinds and maybe some Russian woman will say to her husband or son: 'Don't aim your gun too well; they are just simple people like we are.' "
This was one of my favorites as a child, so much so that I go back and read it every few years. Kate Seredy brought the Hungarian landscape to life, and taught me about World War I though the eyes of two Hungarian Children: Jansci and Kate. Its issues are more complex than The Good Master and a good introduction to adult subjects such as war and religious and racial discrimination for younger readers without the hammering that is so often seen in modern and preachy children's books. I highly recommend this one.
Such a rich and powerfully touching picture of what one family can do in the midst of war and prejudice to prove that people all over the world, from different nations, races, cultures, and genders are really the same, deserving of respect and kindness and love. Tears came on several occasions during my read through this story. I know I want my family to be like the Nagy family, hospitable to all who need a safe and loving haven from the harsh world around us.
This was a book that I could not put down. Although it is about a war, it shows the compassion and caring of a family and how even when times are hard they are willing to open their doors and their hearts to take in as many people as they can. To show them that life and others are there to help guide them and teach them.
This book always makes me cry, no matter how often I read it. I think it's because it takes place during World War I, which I just see as such a waste. But the language is beautiful. Kate Seredy transmits her love for Hungary to the reader. You kind of get hit over the head with "all same," but it doesn't matter because it's true.
One of the great books of my childhood, this one is much more serious that its predecessor "The Good Master." War and prejudice enter and interrupt the halcyon days of Kate and Jansci's Hungarian village. The illustrations of these books add to their appeal.
Eh kind of boring
The sequel to "The Good Master," I might even like this one even better. Tells of what happens to the family during WWI. Nice to hear it from their perspective. LOVE this book!
Jancsi, just barely a teen, becomes the man of the family when his father goes off to war.
As the war goes on, Jancsi, his mother, and his young cousin, Kate take in Russian prisoners and treat them as they expect their father and others like him to be treated in the same situation.
And, as the war goes on even further into years, the family welcomes six German children as refugees to their farm and the 'family' grows even larger.
In the midst of all of it, Jancsi's father was returned to them, injured in the war.
Jancsi's father also Wrote about farming for his family, so they will know what they have to do when he went to war.
Jancsi went home, he didn't tell any body about father but his mom new it.
One time father wrote to his family he told every body about the book, Jancsi for got all about the book, so he take the book out and do what the book said.
One day when his father is at the war, six Russian prisoner came to stay at there house.
So the next day Jancsi, Kate and Lily went to get Jancsi's grandfather and grandmother.
Jansci and Kate's adventures in the first book are heartfelt and make you think of a perfect childhood, and while The Singing Tree has more themes of war and the cousins struggle with growing up, I was struck by how ( probably because the book was written in 1939, and also probably because of a different culture) who we call 'teenagers' nowadays and here in America were portrayed as still children, struggling with life during war, but still having fun.
I think that is so great- everyone should read these.
This story was truly wonderful and gave me great insight into a time period when my Hungarian grandparents were in the United States and their families still in a very troubled Europe.
This centered on the 'Great War,' World War I.
I loved Kate Seredy's take on the politics and more importantly, the people.
Terrible stereotypes that I thought were rampant were not a part of the book.
The illustrations of the book, and they are on pretty much every other page, are exquisite.
What a delightful read and I look forward to my next Kate Seredy book.

Read this book to Silas & Henry.
It started out very slow.
In fact, they begged me to stop reading it.
I asked them to give it 2 more nights & if it didn't get more interesting, we'd stop.
Thankfully we got into it, it began to pique our interest a bit more & we pressed on.
A beautiful story about a Hungarian family who embraces their extended family & even houses German children and Russian POWs. The joy, hope and eventual peace they discover throughout the book is warm & uplifting.
The realities of war are discussed, but it's not too graphic for upper elementary age.
