https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133241.Saving_Grace
It took me a long time to like Gabriel - too arrogant and distant - and Johanna - too ditzy and scared.
Wow, it was like I was reading another book!
Unless I missed it, neither Gabriel's nor Johanna's age was mentioned in the story.
I like knowing how old the H/h are, especially if one of them is that young.All in all, this was another very good story by Ms. Garwood, and she's now officially one of my favorite authors.
Strangely, this stupidity is mistaken often for cunning thinking.
The men in her life are often thinking that she is purposely acting dumb in order to achieve her purpose.
Because we all know that a single man with a large fortune must be in want of a wife.I admit that I was one of the worst matchmakers of my day.
My schemey little mind is always thinking about which of my brilliant young goodreads friends would be good for my son who is now 20.
Just knowing all their grandkids probably died in the plague is depressing enough.
There's a pervading sense of insult throughout this entire story.
I feel like it's insulting to abused woman, insulting to alpha males, and insulting to highland Scots.
Every single character is a caricature, and the humor relies entirely on the farcical, which gets damned annoying.
The interactions between Johanna and Gabriel consisted of Gabriel grunting and uttering the proverbial "Me man, you woman, you shut up and do as man say", to which Johanna would respond with a sigh and/or eyeroll, then walk away...or, worse, start petting Gabriel to calm him down.
Like he's her fucking pet.
And did I mention it's insulting?
Ohh be demek istiyorum öncelikle. Bu kadını çevirmeyerek adeta hakaret ediyorlar bize bence. Tarihi aşk romanlarında sevdiğim ne varsa hepsi bu kitapta vardı, tekrar yazara hayran oldum. Sıkmıyor, gereksiz yanlış anlamalarla bizi yormuyor, salak salak gurur meseleleri yok... Zevk alarak okudum. Karakterler yine usta işi tabi ki. Çeviride tek sıkıntı birbirlerine hanım-bey olarak hitap etmeleri. Yani kuzey İskoçya'dan bahsediyoruz -woman diyor zannımca orijinalinde- Türk filmine çevirmeye ne gerek vardı diye düşünüyorum. Onun dışında akıcı bir çeviri olmuş.
And then we have Judith's foster brother Nicholas and I maybe swooned a bit there.Johanna was married when she was a child (typical for the time period) and her first husband is a wife beater and also apparently raped and harmed other women.
She agrees to marry a man her foster brother believes will protect her and also come to love her.
And she decides after her first terrible marriage, she is not going to be beaten by anyone ever again.The romance between Gabriel and Johanna is great.
They store them neatly in shelves and, my guess is, wait for someone to take them home.I was 9 or 10 at the time, when she brought me in to pick something out for myself.English being a foreign language and all, I really didn't know which one to pick, so I reached my hand into the back of the shelf and fished out Saving Grace.I don't have to tell you this was my fist love and I've beed a Garwood fan ever since.My childhood was not a happy one, so books started to be an escape for me - friends that were there to make me laugh, cry and envision love (I had yet to experience :D) as brave and unwavering.For a while there Julie's were the only novels I've read.
Listened to the Audio 2/26/18: I enjoyed the narrator, though I wish she'd done a different voice for Gabriel.
Re-read 11/14/11 - LOVE!
This is one of my top 5 favorite Julie Garwood books.
I absolutely adore everything about it from the setting to the characters.The overall message - that women are just as important as men - could have become preachy, but it didn't.
Johanna dealt with a lot during her first marriage and I like that Garwood addressed her issues.
She was a strong character who really came into her own throughout this book.
Gabriel I loved right from the beginning.
3.5 stars.
4 StarsGreat story BUT (view spoiler)[I wished the evil bishop had suffered a bit more in the end.He deserved a sorry death for his ideas on woman and their penance.And for some reason it angered me to here his thoughts and ideas were accepted and passed down to the next generation.A broken egg=A broken leg according to him.Disgusting. (hide spoiler)]Other than that I found the female lead to be slightly annoying with her arsenal of white lies,but she kind of made up for it by the end.Great but more of a one-time read.
Hayatımda okuduğum en barbar olmayan highlandli herif ve bir sahne için fazlasıyla uzun olmasına rağmen atlamadan okuduğum ve gülmeden duramadığım komik sahneye sahip kitap olabilir.Biraz daha höd dese güzel olurdu bence. Biraz değil bi kere dese hiç demedi enteresan fşvşfşfKız 16 bu arada. Herifim Allah bilir büsbüyük ama sonuçta yani mis gibi *kırık kalp*Ne demiştim Julia için: seni veren Allah'a şükürler olsun Gabriel  çok güzelsin ÇOK
5 Wonderful Stars!
4,5 stars Buddy Read with Iliada and Riddhi <3Just some products of brainstorming:Great, great, great characters!
Just what I expect from a Julie Garwood novel; a heroine which learns to show her true, genuine character (which is spirited, clever and sassy).
Realistic secondary characters, entertaining and sweet side-stories and subplots.Heartmelting intimacy between the main characters, again, JG-style!
Many funny sayings/scenes, which didn't make me laugh out loud, but still are proof of Garwoods talent for comedian aspects put into a "serious" storyline.
Why not 5 stars?
But Still: Garwood remains Garwood, sweet, funny, romantic and exciting novels, definitly recommended!
Definitely not one of my favorite Julie Garwood books.
The beginning was depressing and I just didn't liking the heroine.
I'm eating my words when I said, in my Ransom review, there wasn't a Julie Garwood heroine I didn't love.
The ending, however, saved the book for me.
In fact, it's my favorite ending of all the Julie Garwood books I've read.
It was beautiful, poignant, and the symbolism of Gabriel placing his hands on Johanna's hands, helping her break the punishment rod, brought tears to my eyes.
And the last sentence of the epilogue...
brilliant and had me smiling for hours.
Overall rating: 4 "Saving Grace" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Gabriel (hero): I am really unsure. It's never really talked about. The only thing you do know is that he has a son, who he claims as his even though the mother was apparently a whore so it's uncertain who the real father is. She died during childbirth. I don't know if he was
Overall rating: 4 "Saving Grace" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Gabriel (hero): I am really unsure.
You see Johanna was in a very abusive relationship with a man who believed women were loved least of all creatures (even an ox) by God. He abused her mentally and physically for their three years of marriage.
Will Johanna learn to accept her marriage to Gabriel and grow to love him?
Will Gabriel admit that he is in love with Johanna even though Lord's don't have time for matters of the heart?
Tarihi aşk nasıl yazılır bize gösteren, her kitabından ayrı keyif aldığım Garwood’un Hiç Umudum Yokken’i bitti maalesef.Maalesef diyorum çünkü kim bilir yeni bir kitabıyla ne zaman tanışma şansı yakalarız.Leydi Johanna, cehennem hayatı yaşadığı kocasının ölümünden sonra evlenmeyeceğine dair kendine yemin etse de, 13.
Johanna da çareyi kocası kadar iğrenç olan bir baronla evlenmektense ağabeyinin önerdiği İskoç beyi Gabriel MacBain ile evlenmekte bulur.
Romanın bonus yönlerinden biri oldu.Gabriel her ne kadar sert, sözü üzerine söz söyletmeyen, inatçı özellikleri olan biri gibi görünse de aslında bunun nedeninin sorumlulukları ve klandaki otoritesinin sorgulanmaması için olduğunu kısa sürede anlıyoruz.
Her ne kadar Johanna üzerinde otorite kurmaya çalışsa da kendisi de bunun pek bir işe yaramadığını gördü.
Epsilon'un nasıl olup da Garwood'dan kitap bastığını çözemesem de (telifleri ne yapmaya alıp, bekletiyorlarsa artık -_- ) ellerime düşen bu hazineyi kaçırmadan aldım okudum hemen.
Kitap tamamen Garwood elinden çıkmış, bölüm sonu başları, karakterlerin hal ve tavırları resmen nostalji yaşadım yaa.
Ayrıca benim sevdiğimi biliyor sanırım :P Hikayenin içine çocuk karakter de koymuş bitanem :D :D :D Keyifle okudum, benim için bir Brodick, Duncan, Iain değildi Gabriel ama bu historical yokluğunda öyle güzel geldi ki okuması.
Abuk sabuk yanlış anlaşılmaların olmadığı, bolca odun iskoç ve bolca aşk okumak isteyenlere şiddetle tavsiye ettiğim bir kitap :D
Lady Johanna is a widow and King John has decided she must marry again. Her foster brother, Nicholas, knows just the person for her to marry. Scottish Highlander Gabriel McBain. But Lady Johanna is more than just a pretty face and would gladly prove it but her new husband thinks her good for one thing only. Lots of great characters that make this a fun and delightful read. One of several books by Julie Garwood that I never get tired of rereading.
Her brother makes a decision to save his sister and convinces the powerful highland laird Gabriel MacBain to put aside his natural disgust for all things English and wed her.
The only problem is that the beloved brother has to convince Johanna to marry Gabriel.
Johanna has difficulty adjusting to life within a clan and being the new wife of the laird.
The clan women make fun of Johanna behind her back, she has a hard time trusting her new husband, always expecting the shoe to drop or should I say the hand to start flying.
Yes. I read another Kilt Romance. Yes. I gave it five stars. Quit looking at me like that. I'll explain later. Yes. My family is probably planning an intervention as we speak. No. I'm not quite ready to stop yet. I *can* stop any time I want to. I just don't want to, ok? [Picks up Ransom by Julie Garwood...snuggles under covers]
"THANK YOU GOD, THANK YOU GOD, THANK YOU GOD" [image error]Ini doa Lady Johanna saat suaminya di kabarkan meninggal dunia....lho? kenapa? Ini ceritanya.... [image error]Ini ttg Lady Johanna yg suami jahat nya mati, trus di paksa Raja mesti milih suami baru, dia di minta kakaknya nikah sama Gabriel McBain yg Laird Skotlandia, nah cinta mereka ini nanti yg jd cerita...Gabriel ini galak, tapi melting sama Johanna...dari pertama kenal udah mulai posesif, besok sore nya nikah, malem nya langsung uhu
[image error]Sampai castle mereka, gak lama , mereka sdh di tunggu kejutan lagi, ada satu klan yg datang bawa perempuan telanjang berdarah2 habis di pukulin, karena katanya, Clare ini tadinya calon istri anaknya laird siapa itu yg jahat, McInnes kalo ga salah, tapi Clare nya ngaku kalo dia 3 bulan yll spending a whole night sama cowok McBain..makanya Clare di kirim ke Mcbain,dan dianggap whore...Sadis banget deh,sampe Gabriel terpana...Johanna yg pernah mengalami pemukulan sama suami terdahulunya,ngamuk berat, sampe anak laird itu dia panah 2 kali di kakinya,dan di biarin aja sama Gabriel,terakhir malah Gabriel yang memanah punggung si Robert itu karena berani2 ngeluarin belati buat ngancem istrinya...
This remains an enjoyable light HR, both the main characters are more than likeable - Highland warrior Gabriel McBain, and Johanna, who was married at a young to an abusive turd.
So in her second marriage to Gabriel it takes her sometime to find her feet, both hesitantly falling in love.
Gabriel is a fab match for her.
Garwood has created moments that will have you laughing/smiling, and the end is one I always enjoy.
Wonderfully, all the people in this book, who deserve to be slapped with some serious karma really do.One of many Garwood's HR books I re-read.
Bir durağanlık vardı hikayede. Ana konusu Gelini anımsattı. Bazı yerlerde mizah da vardı ama çok çok iyi değildi ama vakit doldurmak için ideal bir kitap..Bu duraganlığın çeviriden m kaynaklı oldugunu düşünüyorum. Sahneler diyaloglar da diğer kitaplarının aynısı gibi geldi. Belki de okuma zevklerideğişti..
4 StarsI have been craving a medieval-set romance for awhile and was happy to find this book in a used bookstore especially since I know how much Quinn loves it.
For me, Johanna is the star and the main reason why I could see myself re-reading it.
Gabriel was appropriately alpha for the setting, but I liked the fact that he wasn't a jerk.
His devotion to his clan and Johanna was nice to read about.
I also thought it was interesting that I grew to like Gabriel as Johanna did.
I thought the clan issues were intriguing and provided a nice background to the romance.
Great, but I can't help feeling Garwood is missing something when telling her stories.
This book is no different, though it was a good read.
Garwood attempted at implementing feminist ideas and theories in the story: I still haven't decided whether it was successful at enhancing the story.
I certainly appreciate it, but I can't help feeling it out of place and time sometimes.
I must add, Garwood's sense of humour is extremely entertaining.
In all fairness, this book is especially funny: Not one character is boring, but everyone of them is special and most are vastly amusing.
I recommend this book for the lovers of Highland's stories.
Extremely disliked the heroine because she was made like she was the most perfect woman on the face of the earth and whatever she touched was blessed with perfection!Very, very annoying....
3,5 - E' un classico, è la Garwood, quindi non posso dire che sia un brutto libro.Anzi, certi punti mi sono piaciuti molto, mi è piaciuta l'idea del clan-sharing (la soluzione di accorpare due clan per suddividere oneri, vitto, alloggio e capo di carisma...), mi è piaciuto il suddetto capo di carisma (Gabriel), e poi ho amato Nicholas, Alex, il cagnone, Auggie il matto, le donne del clan, Clare, i poveri guerrieri ruttoni che devono imparare le buone maniere...Tutti, proprio tutti...
Çok sıkıldım :(
There are changes to be done, and Johanna is willing to do whatever it takes to win the hearts of the two clans and bring them together as one clan, to charm the little boy who needs affection and love, and above all to win the heart of her gruff warrior MacBane, who needs her compassion and love in a life where he has only known duty and loyalty.The Hero Gabriel MacBain, is the laird over two clans, both the MacBains and the MacLaurin’s.
I loved her passion for life, and how she wants to help the clan as much as her husband does.Plot and Story Line I am in the process of re listening to all of Julie Garwood’s books, and I had such a fun time with Saving Grace.
I didn't love it as mch the first time I read jt for some reason.
I'm literally laughing out loud when I read some of the scenes and that's a big plus.
I am however, fairly certain that the term romance, as Johanna uses it when she's thinking of Gabriel after she discovers his first name, was not a developed concept during the time period of this book.
However, I'm pretty darn certain with all the play on language, that Garwood thinks it amusing to play around with terms and phrases just to get a laugh out if her readers.
The disposal of her hand is at the king’s pleasure, and, as we discover later, John has his own nefarious reasons for needing Johanna married off to Baron Williams, another of his most loyal courtiers.Fortunately, her brother, Nicholas, has other plans.
Having been unable to help Johanna during her unhappy marriage, he has asked his sometime friend, Gabriel, Laird MacBain to marry her instead.
In return, Gabriel will receive the Scottish lands held by her late husband; lands, which had previously belonged to the MacBains.Gabriel has no objections.
