https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682156.Sacred_Sins
I absolutely love anything written by Nora Roberts but Sacred Sins – not exactly one of my favorites but it’s still worth a read.What I liked:I eventually warmed up to the two mc’s, Ben Paris (is that not a fab name!!!)the gorgeous..obviously….detective working a serial killer case and Tess Court, beautiful, smart and caring psychiatrist, who has been assigned to assist and profiling the killer for the police.
OTT alpha male!!!!!The so many times we have to read about Tess & Ben’s different stance on how to deal with killers and murderers.
Poco puedo decir de este libro, salvo que es una muy buena historia; como Nora Roberts nos tiene acostumbrado. Sin embargo, a mi parecer, esta novela se centra más en el trabajo que ejerce ella, en la psiquiatría y todo lo que eso conlleva, que en la parte romántica. Es una novela dura, en la que vemos dos puntos de vista de una misma realidad: tanto desde el punto de vista religioso como del científico; al punto de vista del psiquiatra, que ve al enfermo, al del policía, que solo ve al criminal.
The set-up is that psychiatrist Tess Court is asked to help out the DC police when they suspect a serial killer is in their midst.
Ben has a lot of feelings about psychiatrists (none of them good) and thinks in the end all Tess is going to do is give out some sob story about the serial killer when he is eventually captured.
Her ability to fight to get her patients what care they need in order to live full lives is what really made me like her.The character of Ben was a little harder to take.
On some levels the book is great, then again there are parts that you just want to skip entirely.
No one does character development like Nora Roberts.
The character development is continual throughout the book.
I am not especially fond of Tess, way too much of the martyr for me and Ben, I just am not feeling the sparks after their initial meeting.
He persuades Tess to take on the job of profiling the killer.
Then the whole thing takes a dearly turn when the killer targets Tess.
This sounds super good and it's on sale at amazon for $2.99 http://amzn.to/2tumlZ8Buuuuuttttttttttttttt..... I see it's the 1st in a series and I really don't want to get hooked into another series right now. Does this work as a stand alone novel or is the plot ongoing throughout the series?
I don't usually read much of this author. This book caught my attention though. A little slow to start but it became very interesting. I have to say she got me. I never saw it coming at all....yay NR!
Or did we invent God because we have a desperate, innate need to believe in something larger, more powerful than ourselves?When multiple female victims turn up dead by the hands of what seems to be an overly religious psychopath, the police force in Washington DC turn to the help of renowned psychiatrist Tess Court to help get into the mind of this killer.
I liked the storyline, but even more than that I was captivated by the characters, especially Tess.
I not only liked her as a character, but I really admired her as a woman.
Definitely a character I could look up to!
I was tempted to tag this as historical! LolIt is wierd reading about a world without mobile phones and internet. The mystery was good and the romance was ok. I've read much better books by NR.I'll read the next one in the series soon.
3,5. El planteamiento y el desarrollo en general me ha gustado, pero me ha faltado emoción. La parte romántica pasa sin pena ni gloria. La trama policial sí que me ha parecido interesante.
This was just okay for me. Neither the mystery or the romance grabbed me.
The romance between Ben and Tess had all the right elements, but they just didn't sizzle together.
And individually I'm not sure I liked either of them.I have a long standing gripe on the player type characters.
"Hello, I'm Ben."Unfortunately this was his reaction to another women while on his first date with Tess.
Such as in typical player mode, Ben takes Tess to bed, picks a fight and doesn't call.
I didn't put Ben on my d-bag hero shelf, but he came close.And perhaps even worse, Tess sometimes seems amused by his player mode.
I just didn't see Tess and Ben working out.
Sacred Sins is one of Nora Roberts' late 80's-era novels, and for me at least, it falls somewhat flat compared to her later work.
There was a lot of needless conflict as well with the hero accusing the heroine of not being interested in proper justice, since as a psychiatrist she was (or so he believed) more interested in treating the killer rather than getting justice for the victims.I think the Nora Roberts of ten years or so after this novel could have pulled off this plot nicely, but the Nora Roberts of 1987 didn't feel like she was quite there yet.
Gostei, gostei muito deste livro e desta história que Nora Roberts nos apresenta. Toda a gente sabe e reconhece o valor desta autora, eu teria de ser um extraterrestre se dissesse que não gosto dos livros e da escrita de Nora.Mais uma vez, conseguiu trazer-nos personagens cheias de personalidade, cheias de força. É certo que são personagens com assuntos passados por resolver, traumas e más experiências que vão sendo resolvidas e ultrapassadas ao longo do livro. Mas é mesmo isso que nos mostra como são as personagens, como são preenchidas e cheias de experiências para partilhar connosco.Opinião Completa emhttp://sinfoniadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
4,5 Gostei, gostei
The misogyny with all the male characters is just too heavy handed for me. I'm sure it gets better but I have so many books to read and I don't feel like reading this. I hate misogyny in current day romance heroes. It irritates me.
Muy buen libro, supero mis expectativas luego de Colinas Negras pero la autora nunca me va a terminar de convencer, sera por el estilo?. Me encanto la pareja de Tess y Ben dos personas demasiado opuestas que con el tiempo descubren que no lo son tanto, hasta sus profesiones.
This book was good what I liked about it more was the fact I didn't know immediately who done the crimes and it was quite interesting with the religious aspect. Overall not bad
I really enjoyed this book - Roberts in real storyteller mode.
This is a solid crime thriller story focused around some well drawn characters.
There’s a romance at the heart of it of course but it’s lighter on the bedroom details and stronger on the psychological aspects of the relationship than some of her later work (and better for it).
Ben and Tess have some real depth to them.
The friendship and working relationship between Ben and Ed is particularly delightful - this is something Roberts does so well (see Eve and her colleagues in the ‘In Death’ series).
I’ll have to find the follow-up so I can check in on these characters again :)
Although it's pretty dated (you can tell especially when the Hero keeps smoking indoors), the side issues dealt with in this book are unfortunately still very current...depression, PTSD, teenage suicide, abortion. I found myself more involved with the side stories than with the main murder mystery but overall, it was a very good listen, even though I believe it was abridged.
Gostei... Gostei... Gostei... E gostei! :D
Como todos os livros da Nora, uma boa leitura. Surpreendeu-me bastante quem era o "mau da fita" :-)
It just felt way too realistic, for two people to insult each other and each other's professions and genuinely disagree with their partner - you see these kinds of disagreements in real life, when real couples fight - I don't want to read a romance about a flawed couple whose relationship I don't think could last even in a book!
I liked the rest of the book and read it like a murder mystery , not a romance :) Character commentary: The hero annoyed me by constantly attacking the heroine for being too "cold and professional" > what did he want her to do?!
With nothing to connect the two women and no leads on the killer the police are feeling the pressure and bring in a psychiatrist, Dr Tess Court, to help put together a profile of the killer.One of the cops on the case is Detective Ben Paris, a man with a dislike and distrust of psychiatrists.
When another woman is killed and the search for the killer intensifies, Ben and Tess find their relationship intensifying, and when Tess becomes the next target for the killer everything comes to a head.This worked really well as a mystery.
One of the most interesting things about this book was realising how much our attitudes to smoking have changed since 1987.
I don't remember the first time I read this book, but it had to have been at least 15 years ago.
I don't remember not ever liking a Nora Roberts book from back in the day, but this time, this book, I'm not a big fan.Mostly, it has to do with Ben Paris.
But at the same time her 'he has an illness' take on the killer started to get on my nerves too.For once, the story just made no sense to me.
Or rather, the love story aspect.
i mean the romance wasn't that good.
they barely even liked each other.
nope they genuinely didn't like what the other had to say.
literally the first or second time he was mentioned in the book.
that was wayyyyy sad and really unnecessary to the story.
just sad and depressing.
even if it helped the characters connect a little bit.
it wasn't worth it to me.
i didn't like reading it and i just don't feel that the little good it did for the main characters was enough to justify writing it.
this book just wasn't my favorite.
Este livro foi publicado no meu ano de nascimento, por isso não poderia deixar de ser interessante :)Agora a sério gostei muito deste livro, um género que agora não é tão habitual, um pouco policial um pouco romance.
Gostei de conhecer o Ben, com tantas ideias predefinidas que vão caindo no decorrer da trama, e de Tess tão corajosa.
E também gostei e muito do parceiro do Ben e felizmente ele vai ter um livro só para ele :) A editora diz que irão publicar no verão, vamos lá a ver se conseguem cumprir.Enfim é sempre um prazer nos deixarmos envolver pela escrita da Nora Roberts.
Overall was good. There are part I just want to skip. What I like about this novel, the characters are strong and bold as I didn't immediately know who is the killer.
Gosto mais dos livros românticos da Nora, mas este também me agradou.uma escrita fluída e um policial levezinho.gostei
Temos crime, temos um mau da fita, temos uma revelação final (esta sim uma surpresa), mas também temos muito romance óbvio."Jorra três vezes para dentro dela" - expressões como estas estragaram algum clima mais romântico que estivesse a sentir, acabando com a pouca química que sentia com esta parte da história.Aqui o mau da fita é um padre (calma, é o nome que deram ao assassino, não estou ainda a dar pistas nem a fazer spoiler), portanto temos citações da bíblia numa quantidade razoável.
Doctor Tess Court, a psychiatrist was assigned to assist the serial killer case handled by Ben and his partner.
Ben was not a happy man when he met Tess, well he liked what he saw but when he found out that she was a psychiatrist..you get the picture.
Tess was not a mouse,she didn't run into a hole and hid, she faced Ben squarely and even asked him out for drinks after their first meeting to find out what was it about her profession that he didn't like.
This story was entertaining, I get to picture Law and Order in my mind as I root for Ben and Tess to get it on despite their differences.
