https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/872713.The_Shadow_Out_of_Time
This novella is Lovecraft's last major effort, and resembles—in relation to his own work, if not in literary quality—Joyce's Finnegan's Wake and James' The Golden Bowl: all three extend to the limits of aesthetic possibility their author's personal concerns, and as a result can be boring, infuriating, and sometimes just characteristically odd.
Nonetheless, they are mature works by master craftsmen, and may often reveal the hearts of their creators more intimately than earlier, less ambitious, and more successful works.The Shadow Out of Time is the story of Professor of Economics Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee who faints one day in the middle of a lecture and regains consciousness five years later only to find that he—or some entity inhabiting his body—has been pursuing eccentric researches in the obscure libraries and remote places of the world.
H.P. Lovecraft's The Shadow Out of Time is an interesting, rambling discourse. Yes, it is interesting--with scattered gems here and there--but it rambles and shuffles and repeats itself. At first, the narrator is the focus, his amnesia and deteriorating mental faculties. However, in what seems like a fevered and reoccurring dream, the emphasis shifts to the narrator's exploration of the Elder Race and a civilization millions of years old. I well might read this again, but as a narrative I think it ultimately doesn't satisfy. 3.5 stars.
The story is in keeping both with The Dreams in the Witch House, through a series of disturbing dreams in the first half of the tale, and with At the Mountains of Madness, through the second half and the archaeological excavation in the Australian sandy desert.
The ending of Lovecraft's tale is brilliant and unexpected.The architectonic descriptions regarding the “Cyclopean” masonry of the “Great Race” — possibly evocative of ancient Egyptian or Inca buildings — are incredibly detailed and probably inspired the idea of the monolith in 2001: A Space Odyssey.
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 4 Contents:ix - Introduction by S. T. Joshi003 - "The Shadow out of Time" by H. P. Lovecraft091 - "The Vanity of Existence in “The Shadow out of Time” "by Paul Montelone108 - "The Shadow out of Plastic" by Pete Von Sholly111 - "“The Shadow out of Time” as Lovecraftian Horror" by W. H. Pugmire
It begins, like many of his best tales, with a man experiencing or discovering something that irrevocably alters the fabric of his life, sending him scrambling to restore his sanity; but in this case this aspect is reduced to little more than a framing device for detailed descriptions of how the Great Race – an effectively disembodied race that successively inhabits the bodies of others throughout the universe – manages incredible feats of time and space travel, and of descriptions of the ruined habitations of the Old Ones in a desert in Australia.
'I shiver at the mysteries the past may conceal, and trembled at the menaces the future may bring forth.'  Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee is perfectly normal, ordinary, albeit very smart man who works at Miskatonic University. His origins are normal and he tries hard to get that fact through. It is important because something horrible has happened to him. For five years Nathaniel's mind has seemed to be gone and something else was there. The Nathaniel of those five years acted strange, knew foreign
Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee is perfectly normal, ordinary, albeit very smart man who works at Miskatonic University.
The professor had a misfortune to encounter the Great Race - beings that mastered mind-projection in order to study and learn about other races and worlds to learn everything they can about them, their past and their future.
Whatever they do, they do it to be able to run when their own horrors awaken.The Shadow Out of Place is Nathaniel Peaslee's written testimony of what happened to him, or rather an account of a series of events that he left to his son to judge whether he was dreaming or it was all real.You can read it here
A professor suffers an unexplained collapse, followed by strange changes in personality. After another episode five years later, Peaslee is left with no memory of the intervening years. No memory of his recorded life, that is -- he does have fragmentary, dream-like memories of another life in an alien place...
Ante todo quiero decir que esta review me da vergüenza ajena pero que la dejo por los recuerdos.5/07/2017: Relectura.
Además, todavía no había descubierto los matices de mis sentimientos y sensaciones.Siempre recordaré esa primera lectura de La sombra fuera del tiempo.
Los libros hasta entonces habían sido para mi un instrumento de entretenimiento, pero a partir de La sombra fuera del tiempo comenzó a operarse un cambio gradual en mi.
Pero la forma en la que lo ha llevado Lovecraft ha sido como una carrera: hasta que no llegas a la meta , no paras de correr.
Lovecraft thought so little of it that he mailed the original, handwritten manuscript to his friend without keeping a copy for himself - he seemed to be very dissatisfied with most of the stories he wrote, and made little effort to get them published.The Shadow Out of Time, like many other Lovecraft stories, is narrated in the form of a confession by Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee, a professor of political economy at Arkham's Miskatonic University.
But, me, I had a hard time keeping my eyes open; I kept counting my blessings that I had to read just this one section out of the gorblimey 807 pages of the very elegant Library of America edition of his work (with annotations by Peter Straub).Nathaniel Peaslee, a prof at Miskatonic University, falls into a strange psychological state for some years: although physically himself, he has suffered an appalling character shift, almost as if his body had been possessed by something .
Lovecraft apparently wasn’t satisfied with this novella – one of his final works - but I, as many others before me, think it’s brilliant. Several interesting concepts are present: from a different perception of time to dreams as a learning experience and/or a portal to a different world and/or forgotten memories. Above all, I found amusing how for him, horror is external (an alien civilization, a different body, etc) and not internal (your own mind tricking you), which instead I deem simply terrifying.
It's subtle, but we can only guess what terrible calamity will happen to us that the planet will still be inhabitable, but we are no longer here.The psychic time travel would be considered today a great "magic system" and Lovecraft naturally imbues this race with it.Just look at some passages: (view spoiler)[Most of the tales and impressions concerned a relatively late race, of a queer and intricate shape resembling no life-form known to science, which had lived till only fifty million years before the advent of man.
The shadow our of time is basically a prequel to a prequel, since it gives the reader the backstory to "At The Mountains of Madness", and that story gives the backstory to"The Call of Cthulhu".
As such, this story is best suited for the true Lovecraft devotee.
It's also told as an extended flashback, which lessens the dramatic impact.
However, the story still has plenty of payoffs.
It's full of "oh, that's what that was" moments for those who are familiar with the Mythos, and it develops the idea if The Great Race of Yith, which is *completely insane*.
This story is a must-read for the true Lovecraft fan.
One of the first remarkable sf novels,written at the end of the life of Lovecraft and framed in the 
Part of the  Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft , which can be found formatted for Nook and Kindle on CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: A young professor from the fictional Miskatonic University learns that aliens, the Yith, are possessing the bodies of humans to learn about the history and culture of the Earth. He soon becomes convinced that he is also possessed, but those around him fear he is simply insane..My Thoughts: Ultimately, this novella affected me more strongly than any of them in the omnibus
He soon becomes convinced that he is also possessed, but those around him fear he is simply insane..My Thoughts: Ultimately, this novella affected me more strongly than any of them in the omnibus.
The sense of deja vu that the narrator experiences through most of the story resounded strongly with me, due to my own experiences of repeating dreams, long periods of deja vu, and strange knowledge I have that I should not know.
So, to be frank, this story really freaked me out.
This story is definitely more in the science fiction vein than a lot of Lovecraft's other stories. The mysterious amnesia is great, and the body dislocation element is menacing, but I just couldn't get into it. The horror was more ambiguous and ominous and not as visceral as other tales in the Mythos. Lovecraft goes to great lengths to really flesh out the world of the Yith, but in the end that detail weakened the ending for me and caused it not to be as surprising or as impactful as it could have been if left to interpretation.
Πέρυσι διάβασα και την ανθολογία των εκδόσεων Jemma Press με τον τίτλο "Σκιές πάνω από το Ίννσμουθ", που με την σειρά της μου έκανε πάρα πολύ καλή εντύπωση.Τώρα, όσον αφορά την νουβέλα που μόλις τελείωσα, οφείλω να παραδεχτώ ότι με κούρασε λιγάκι σε κάποια σημεία και, ας πούμε, δεν μου φάνηκε το ίδιο ψυχαγωγική με τις υπόλοιπες ιστορίες του Λάβκραφτ.
Απλά, δεν ξέρω, μου φάνηκε ότι είχε αρκετό μπλα μπλα και μπόλικες πομπώδεις εκφράσεις για το μέγεθος της ιστορίας.
Απλά σαν ιστορία θέλει υπομονή και την κατάλληλη διάθεση εκ μέρους του αναγνώστη.
First, many thanks need to be given to the translators who translated this Lovecraft's masterpiece The Shadow Out of Time into Chinese---otherwise I most likely wouldn't survive chewing down Lovecraft's long winded, wordy and difficult paragraphs which stuffed his story. Lovecraft spent many parts of his story to describe the long-lost alien civilization which colonized Earth once in the unmemorable past, although the description is imaginative but it is also very, very, frustratingly long winded. However, Lovecraft rewarded our patience with one great, big final plot twist by the end of the story, which I absolutely love.
I have read and enjoyed a number of Lovecraft stories, but this one was a disappointment. It would have made an interesting premise for a science fiction story, but he kept trying to fit it into a horror template. This involved having the narrator constantly repeat how horrified he was at everything, which didn't work because the aliens in question weren't particularly horrifying or even that evil. Read "Shadow over Innsmouth" or "Dunwich Horror" instead.
This story was a re-read. And it just as good as the first time I read it years ago.
En el libro El abismo en el tiempo (publicación original: The Shadow Out of Time, 1936) conocemos a Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee, que ha tenido una extraña experiencia en el oeste de Australia y no está seguro de si ha sido algo real o una alucinación de su mente.
Trabajo también conocido como En la noche de los tiempos, La sombra más allá del tiempo, La sombra de otro tiempo, La sombra fuera del tiempo y como En el abismo del tiempo.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
2,5*. It was as boring as At the Mountains of Madness. Best Lovecraft - is short Lovecraft!
Again and again I looked nervously down at myself, vaguely disturbed by the human form I possessed."“The Shadow Out of Time” is anti-anthropocentrism epitomized.
During five years, four months, and thirteen days, Peaslee travels to suspect regions and devours piles of esoteric tomes, e.g. the Unaussprechlichen Kulten of von Junzt and Ludvig Prinn’s De Vermis Mysteriis, while he communes with a motley bunch of questionable new acquaintances.
As for the five-year bout of amnesia which propels the narrative behind “The Shadow Out of Time”, Lovecraft suffered a nervous breakdown in 1908, compelling him to mainly stay indoors and write poetry … until 1913.
I don't think that the idea that people would be driven mad by the existence of the ancient and alien artifacts holds any merit in the real world, in fact I suspect there would be great excitement in numerous scientific fields if such a thing came to pass, but given that idea as a backdrop for the entire mythos, I can accept this story for what it is.
There was a bit more to the main character than in many of his stories, but he's still just a pawn in a cosmic game.
The Shadow Out of Time is probably the most brilliant theosophical work I've ever read in my life. Only Lovecraft could create an adventure story and make it gospel. Even though the story seemed to drag a bit after the 50% mark, I can't help but overlook the flaws, because this story is a spiritual occultist's dream--literally and figuratively.
WTF!!!??
Batiburrillo de cosas extrañas, raramente enlazadas. Tiene un puntito de terror muy bueno (por algo es Lovecraft), pero me da la sensación de que va escribiendo totalmente al azar. Menos mal que es corto.
3 stars. The beginning was pretty strong, but it got boring quickly. Review to come.
mais bientôt ses nuits sont dominées par des cauchemars où il voit les choses les plus étranges, les lieux et les créatures les plus fantastiques, et il décide d'écrire ses propres expériences, afin de découvrir s'il rêve ou s'il a simplement des souvenirs de choses qu'il a vraiment vécues et expérimentées pendant son «absence».L’idée centrale de l'histoire de Lovecraft c'est que le professeur avait été substitué pour un membre d’autre race pendant son “sommeil”, une race extra-terrestre, y que tout qu'il avait fait dans ces cinq ans il avait fait effectivement pour cette race, comme un émissaire parmi nous autres.
https://10thandnoble.wordpress.com/20...There is no best way to describe this book other than in author's very own words"- a person of keen thoughtfulness seized a strange secondary life and leading for a greater and lesser period an utterly alien existence typified at first by vocal and bodily awkwardness, and later by a wholescale acquisition of scientific, historic, artistic and anthropologic knowledge; an acquisition carried on with feverish zest and with a wholly abnormal absorptive power.
Then a sudden return of rightful consciousness, intermittently plagued ever after with vague unplacable dreams suggesting fragments of some hideous memory elaborately blotted out."Nathaniel Wingate Peaslee is a professor with a very usual normal calm life, married with kids.
