https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18813642-bad-feminist
This writer certainly has a LOT OF OPINIONS. I mean...
2.5 starsEssays are one of my favourite literary genres and recently I've read some amazing essay collections that have introduced me to new ideas and new writing styles so perhaps I put overly high expectations on Roxane Gay's essay collection.
I read a lot of feminist literature and I guess what I always look for when I finish books like this are new realizations, new ideas and things I didn't know before, but this was simply a rehash of the last two years of pop culture discussion on Twitter.
Her voice is the first I’ve heard say, “It’s okay to be messy, to hold conflicting opinions, to do things that don’t follow the party line, to question and be confused and STILL be a feminist.” As she says in the collection’s closing line, “I’d rather be a bad feminist than no feminist at all.”First, a few things you should know about Roxane Gay: she’s a writer of novels, short stories, essays; a professor of English; a literary and cultural critic; a native of Nebraska, the daughter of Haitian immigrants.
I had to question what it says about me that I take so much pleasure in the drama of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills or the drunken, weave-snatching antics of Rock of Love or Flavor of Love, that, I, like many others, take pleasure in what Pozner brands, “the cathartic display of other people’s humiliations.” These shows exist because audiences need reminders of the wrong turns our lives might take.On The Hunger Games:I have found myself inexplicably drawn to these books, the complex world Collins has created, and the people she has placed in that world.I am not the kind of person who becomes so invested in a book or movie or television show that my interest becomes a hobby or intense obsession, one where I start to declare allegiances, or otherwise demonstrate a serious level of commitment to something fictional I had no hand in creating.Or, I wasn’t that kind of person.Let me be clear: Team Peeta.
“Feminists are just women who don’t want to be treated like shit”Well, Roxane Gay and I both have a favorite quote in common now and I'll also be calling myself a bad feminist because "I would rather be a bad feminist than no feminist at all."I went into this book not knowing much about the author.
Overall I think it was hard to connect with some of the essays simply because I hadn’t read the books or watch the movies that were mentioned.
In another, she goes on and on about how bad Law & Order: SVU is for our society and perpetuating rape culture, and then she says, "I've watched every episode of this show multiple times.
As if having a talent for snappy one-liners is not the exact goddamn opposite of being good at thinking deeply about an idea and drawing surprising and interesting conclusions from it.On a more personal note, another issue has to be that I read this so shortly after the fall-down-stunning Empathy Exams.
Roxane Gay moved me in a way that I haven't been moved in quite a while with this collection of essays, ostensibly umbrella'd under the topic of feminism.
Even the essays whose topics were beyond my realm of personal experience, I loved the way they were written.
Roxane Gay is also the first person to make me want to read The Hunger Games series and the first person to make me feel okay for not liking Caitlin Moran all that much -- she's alright, but doesn't seem to understand that her experience is not necessarily representative of all women.
I've been on the look-out to read more feminist books, but most of the ones I tried reading before focus heavily on either privileged males and/ or sexual assaults, which then leads to me feeling terrified to leave my home...However, Bad Feminist focuses more on Gay's opinions about “misogyny, institutional sexism that consistently places women at a disadvantage, the inequity in pay, the cult of beauty and thinness, the repeated attacks on reproductive freedom, violence against women, and on an
Nearly everyone, particularly in the developed world, has something someone else doesn’t, something someone else yearns for.”Going into these essays, it was very important for me to get educated about certain kinds of privileges, and Roxane Gay did so in the most informative way.“You could, however, use that privilege for the greater good—to try to level the playing field for everyone, to work for social justice, to bring attention to how those without certain privileges are disenfranchised.
Simply put, Bad Feminist completely captivated me.I enjoyed the fact that as I read this collection, I didn’t feel like I was really reading.
If this meandering, pointless collection of dressed up Tumblr posts is the best criticism she can offer to a publisher, it's sorely disappointing.EDIT: Folks can take umbrage at the last third of this essay (though I think if you're not ready to talk about your own history of sexual violence, you're not obligated to - but you can't mention that PRECISELY following an essay calling out other female writers for their failure to write explictly about their histories of sexual violence), but there is no denying the rest of this review is spot-freaking-on: http://www.bookslut.com/features/2014...EDIT 2: Two years later, I'm knocking this book down to one star, because it still makes me angry to see it on bookshelves.
This book represents the worst that 21st century criticism has to offer - thoughtless, incurious, lazy, and ultimately devoid of rigor.
Gay is funny, personable, thoughtful, and obviously intellectual but her essays don't delve deep enough into her subjects.
Furthermore, I realize that essays can explore topics without coming to any definitive answers or conclusions, but I want more than an introduction to a problem.
I want long and winding explorations with a surfeit of allusions, copious amounts of pattern-hunting from history, deeper thoughts on why something is the way Gay says it is.
Gay's "Scrabble" essay seemed to pay homage to David Foster Wallace with the use of footnotes, but was without Wallace's raucous humor or almost archaeological excavation of a topic.
I'm just gonna let the quote speak for itself:"In a Publishers Weekly interview with Claire Messud about her novel The Woman Upstairs, which features a rather 'unlikable' protagonist, Nora, who is bitter, bereft, and downright angry about what her life has become, the interviewer said, 'I wouldn't want to be friends with Nora, would you?' And there we have it.
A reader was here to make friends with the characters in a book and she didn't like what she found.
The relevant question isn't "Is this a potential friend for me?" but "Is this character alive?"'"
That’s how I think of Gay. She seems to want to be loved, respected, and applauded for saying the most obvious fucking things.
She is quick to form criticisms of the books and doesn’t put enough effort into digesting what she’s read.Gay is clear about one thing: her enthusiastic consumption of popular media.
Plus she included them in a book titled Bad Feminist--a book I expected would be full of thought-provoking essays on feminism, not squees over Peeta.
Gay is a bad feminist not because she likes pink or reads Vogue.
I cannot tell you how freeing it has been to accept this about myself.In her collection of essays Bad Feminist, Roxane Gay blends anecdote, critical analysis, and humor to create a set of pieces that feel human.
Characters who don't follow this code become unlikeable.
She strikes a rough and fitting balance by ending her book by admitting this:I am a bad feminist.
This book solidified my girl crush on Roxane Gay. Earlier this year I had the good fortune to hear Roxane speak at a conference, and she was so smart and funny that I kicked myself for not reading her stuff sooner.Bad Feminist is a collection of essays on a variety of issues, including gender, race, pop culture and politics.
5 stars for helping me expand my thinking and self-reflection. I'll be returning to this audio collection of essays on much more than "just" feminism.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestHey, you know what pairs really well with red wine? Books on feminism. BAD FEMINIST has mixed reviews among my friends, with some of them loving it and others hating it. As with any controversial book, that mixed reception only made me want to read BAD FEMINIST for myself. Because your favorite neighborhood snowflake here loves to read up on feminism in its many incarnations, to get the dirt on the latest schools of thought.First off, BAD F
Bad is such a highly charged and subjective term...and the way she uses it here, it seems to indicate that "good" feminist = eschewing feminist things.Some of the things in here that I think will turn off potential readers are the exhaustive discussions behind some of the catalysts behind the strengthened Black Lives Matter movement, privilege (specifically white privilege) and abortion, but what she said honestly needs to be said - as many times as possible.
HAVE to read something by this remarkable woman who just pulled out of her next new book contract as protest over the horrific contract given to the racist (Black Lives Matter as "legal hate group"), sexist ("feminism is cancer") Milo Yiannopoulos out of the Breitbart toxic waste dump that produced Trump's main thinker, Steven Bannon.
This mentioned that Milo was given a promotion of $250K for his hateful vile, that was more than all five previous advanced Gay got for her books.Maybe we should all read her as thanks!?
I think I'm more interested in knowing why people like The Help rather than having it proven to me that it's racist, and this is a critique I'd make of a few of the cultural essays.
Rather than explaining to me that 50 Shades isn't a great representation of a sub/dom relationship, I'd rather assume that stance with you and then hear about why that version is so attractive to people.Now, I'm re-writing the book a little, and maybe what I wanted was never the intent.
Spoiler alert: Roxane Gay is not a bad feminist.
She more interested in making things better for women than being a so called good feminist.
They are for the most part interesting, informative and entertaining.So why a bad feminist?
Are these women good or bad feminists and why?
<- Good feminist or bad?
(hide spoiler)] <- Good feminist or bad?
(hide spoiler)] <- Good feminist or bad?
(view spoiler)[good, assuming it's all consensual and a safeword has been established before play begins  (hide spoiler)] <- Good feminist or bad?
(hide spoiler)]ETA: I just noticed that Roxane Gay is doing Outlander episode recaps.
This analysis is not provided for men of colour who fit the 'profile'), and the over-public involvement with female autonomy (such as bills restricting abortion, contraception).We hold feminism to an unreasonable standard where the movement must be everything we want and must always make the best choices.
In her final essays titled 'Bad feminist', Roxane Gay highlights how she makes 'mistakes' and does not always fit in with the movement- however, she also states how she'd rather be a bad feminist than not be a feminist at all.
This myth is like heels and purses - pretty but designed to SLOW women down.""A lot of ink is given over to mythologizing female friendships as curious, fragile relationships that are always intensely fraught.
Stop reading writing that encourages this mythology.""Don't tear another woman down, because even if they are not your friends, they are women and this is just as important.""Feminism is a choice, and if a woman does not want to be a feminist, that is her right, but it is still my responsibility to fight for her rights."Thanks Roxane Gay for such a profound and timely book.
So, I guess what this book has done for me is that I finally know what that feels like.The best way I can describe my experience with Bad Feminist is this: Imagine yourself outside, maybe in a park, on a crisp autumn day.
I'm going to try and not bore you very much longer with this (the question of why I'm writing a huge review about a book I haven't even finished when I can't be bothered to review some of those that I actually read, is one for another day) but I want to make clear why I did not like this: 1) I felt that the majority of the essays were pretty boring and useless.
Perhaps I have read too much feminist literature, but the statement that women make 77 cents for every dollar men make, has been trotted out so many times that it evokes nothing more than a yawn.
But rather than seeing this as an invasion of privacy, is it not possible – it is not conceivable- that strangers engage with pregnant women because they know they are (typically) in the presence of great happiness?
I had none of that while reading Bad Feminist.As I said : perhaps I am experiencing feminist-essay-fatigue?
There is such a shortage of feminist essays that this book is really filling a gap2.
I consider myself to be an intelligent, liberal-minded, empathetic person, yet I've never thought about my privilege, or how non-white characters are portrayed so stereotypically in movies and books, or about how invasive and demeaning it is for women to be expected to justify their reproductive choices, or the double standard that goes hand in hand with it, because men are never questioned on the same topic.
A tighter focus, and maybe a better format (better delineation between essays for the audio) would have definitely helped this book, but still, I am glad that I read it.
On the other, (and Gay is aware of this) the author's bias comes through very strongly, which at times, for me at least, weakened her reasoning and felt powerfully one-sided.
Whether or not Gay and I are completely of a mind, her ideas and especially certain point on which I felt we disagreed, will probably remain in my mind for some time longer.
It was at once personal and opinionated, and yet not remotely as intimate or involving as her newer book Hunger.I liked that she, as a self-declared "bad feminist", acknowledges and allows for the "complexities of human individuality" when it comes to feminism.
It is incredibly successful, however, at what it sets out to do: pinpointing small and big injustices, analyzing constructs of gender and race in everyday life and popular culture and finally, calling for action and change.Some reviewers seem to criticize that a) Roxane Gay references and talks about pop culture too often and b) she talks about her personal life too often — two aspects of this book I personally really appreciated.
Bad Feminist is definitely the kind of book that will stick with me for a while and that I will keep coming back to.
Ugh. I don't understand why people like this book. It was a struggle for me to get through, both because of the terrible, stream-of-consciousness writing, and because she doesn't appear to be saying anything new. I feel like anyone who has even remotely thought about women's issues has had all these same thoughts, and others have said them better.
I don’t exactly recall when I first came upon the name of Roxane Gay, but it may have been when I was looking over the book made from blogposts by the essayist and thinker Rebecca Solnit, called Men Explain Things to Me. A critic of that book mentioned Gay and then I came across her name a couple more times in different contexts in quick succession.
She has permission to change her thinking—would relish it, I trust—if someone had a better, more convincing, more nuanced argument.Best of all, I liked the short blogposts at the end of this book in the section called “Politics, Gender & Race.” In these, Gay discusses “The Racism We All Carry,” acknowledging we all have beliefs formed on impressions of race.
Unfortunately, the book almost immediately went downhill for me, when she went on to put other feminists on a pedestal and rip them to shreds (Caitlin Moran, case in point, whose sense of humor is clearly unforgivable by the author's own standards).After much rambling and pettiness regarding other feminist icons, she goes on a tangent with a slew of essays that have no relation whatsoever to feminism; sure, the idea that you accidentally stumbled upon competitive Scrabble is cute, but why not save it for the book of essays that you didn't claim to be related to important social issues?
Fabulous.
Great read.
So much I could relate to, but also so much that I'd never thought about.
I didn't agree with all of it, but I don't need to agree to grow and learn from an opinion.
My only complaint is that it wasn't longer.
I wanted more more more.
Thumbs up.
Also, now I feel a little less conflicted about cranking up J Cole's 2014 Forest Hills Drive album (it's not the worst in terms of vulgarity, but it's got plenty that I have a problem with...yet it's so good).
I see myself as more of a tricksy feminist, but yes, a feminist, nonetheless.
