https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10714.Good_as_Gold
The antics of Congress provide a sufficiently ample context for the absurdity of power portrayed in "Good as Gold." One wonders what tragic flaws exist in people who seek power relentlessly on a grand scale: is it egomania, narcissism, greed, materialism, wealth, control or all of the above?
Read this great novel for the pure comic wit evident in the story line, characters and dialogue -- then take away everything else that Heller generously offers to reward judicious readers.
There is no way to create another Catch-22 so Good as Gold isn’t as good as gold, probably it is as good as tin at best.“Gold had little doubt he would succeed in Washington if once given the chance, for he was a master at diplomacy and palace intrigue.
He was the department's deadliest strategist in the conflict now raging to attract students to subjects in liberal arts from other divisions of the college and to subjects in English from other departments in liberal arts.”Should a professor and author of many unread, seminal articles in small journals go for a political career?
Otherwise he would be just a subject for a mediocre and insipid novel such as Good as Gold.
Heller puts in references to himself, and it seems like this is a book about writing a book except done well, so it's not a tiresome conceit at all.Loved it.
I was burning through 50 pages in single sittings, and I don't have a lot of time or focus lately, so that says something.(view spoiler)[The part about protestant children pulling down a Jewish boy's pants and spitting on his penis is so funny, still, that I wonder how Heller came up with or it or if someone he knew actually lived that.
4.5 stars!Catch-22 is one of my favourite novels and this book by Heller manages to take me back to the same place.
Its a brilliant book filled with acerbic wit, biting satire and a general disdain for conventional humour.
The characters are eccentric and highly incorrigible.
Its hilarious in its portrayal of a dysfunctional Jewish family full of horrible people who are at each other's throats.
Brilliant book, highly recommended for anyone who found Catch-22 to be too daunting and weird and wants to give Heller another shot (which you totally should).
I thought this book just might be what I needed to put all of vehemence of our current election into a proper humorous perspective.
The book is actually two stories about Bruce, one is about his very Jewish family and the other is a more satirical story about Bruce's attempt to secure a presidential appointment in Washington.
As such it was unappealing and not very humorous.The political phase of the book was typical Heller and the use of nonsensical double talk will easily recall the dialogue of Major Major Major and Milo Minderbinder from "Catch 22".
The book is dated and so is its humor.
I was definitely not a fan of this book.
Heller's writing style is fine, but I did not care for the story.
It was vulgar and had only one character with any redeeming qualities, who was basically the victim.
The main character is selfish, immoral, petty, and just about any other bad attribute you can think of.
He's a jerk.
His family is a bunch of jerks.
His peers are a bunch of jerks.
The book was supposed to be a humorous look at politics and the losers running the government, but I missed the humor.
Not a fan!
It might have been readable if you like reading about annoying Jewish families, don't care if no one in the book is likable, and find contradictory politicians endlessly amusing.
I only finished it because I wanted to see if it could possibly get worse.
Later, he writes several options for a sentence and doesn't clear up which one he actually wants to happen...
it reads like a first draft, aimlessly wanders from time to place, characters are one-dimensional and the one amusing aspect, the hopelessly contradictory politician, is run into the ground over and over.
I don't remember Catch-22 being anywhere near this bad.
So far loving this.
Heard Heller's daughter interviewed on NYT Book Review podcast.
Tanenhaus said something about this being laugh out loud funny and after twenty pages he's been proven right.
I want to take the phone off the hook or turn it off or whatever you do these days.
I want to get into bed with some kugel and read this and laugh and wince.
I haven't read Heller since SOMETHING HAPPENED came out and I was a teenager and felt like a big grownup.
I'd like to read that again.
There are many things I would like to do again.
Heller takes on the government and the Jewish experience in America. Heller knows how write about the mundane interactions between people, find the irony, and make it an involving story. This may be Heller's most autobiographical work. Good as Gold is Heller at his acerbic, sarcastic and flippant best.
I loved this book! There were several times I laughed out loud. I rate Good as Gold as good as Catch-22, albeit the plot is not nearly as complicated as some of Heller's earlier works.A must read for anyone likes satire and sharp dialogue.
Joseph Heller is superb. The writing is satirical, the characters are awful people and the situation is all too familiar. If you've ever felt stressed out and annoyed by your family, if you've ever felt mislead and confused by your government, this book is for you. I laughed the whole way through.
Everything Joseph Heller ever wrote, other than Catch-22, is utter crap. I'm beginning to believe the theory that it was plagarized...
Could not be bothered finishing this.
Follows the same path as Something Happened. Satire filled to brim with pathos, cynicism and humor. One man's life as he interacts with a specific industry (politics/Washington) while being Jewish. It's fun, funny and funnily factual. Heller is great as the grand absurdist drawing out the illogical nature of human relationships. This is no Catch-22. It had far more memorable characters. This is no Something Happened. It had a far sadder ending. This by virtue of its context, is a funny/sad look into the Jewish immigrant life in America interacting with the established 1% residing in Washington D.C.
Some parts are fantastic, but on the whole there is too much alienation and repetition in it and there are so much better books on the same contradictions of American Jewish life by Philip Roth!
He's surrounded by seemingly closeted anti-semites, and is tasked with writing a book about the Jewish experience in America, which he readily agrees to do even though he's not quite sure he's actually had a proper Jewish experience.There are two distinct tones in this work, the first which echoes Philip Roth, in which Heller rather poigantly delves into the family history of Gold.
(Although is a sorta-kinda dream sequence later in the book, he actually revisits those ideas.) Secondly, at one point, Gold seems to suddenly find himself in a good mood, and begins doing research on a book he wants to write about Henry Kissinger.
Originally published on my blog here in April 2003.Heller's third novel reads almost as though it were the book of a Woody Allen film.
Good as Gold centres around a second generation American Jew, Bruce Gold, who is entering middle age and who is desperate to be taken seriously - as a writer, as a family member (particularly by his irascible father and brother), as someone who could make a mark in the world.
Other novels since have taken that title, but Good as Good is still funny and occasionally disturbing as a portrait of a man becoming overwhelmed by ambition.
or 'The Pains of Not Being Saul Bellow.' This is such a mess of jarring modes - from overly conspicuous satire to outraged liberal arts polemic to Jewish family saga.
Is Gold meant to have a semblance of an inner life?
The exploration of Jewish family life (and its themes of insecurity, harrassment, hostility, sibling rivalries, etc) in New York appears like it might have been copied out of a Saul Bellow novel by some nuisance of a child with National Lampoon aspirations.
However, it's pretty entertaining for all it's bizarre tonal misgivings, glaring narrative flaws and dated, tiresome satire.
Heller brews a powerful concoction of a humor, wit, family, sentiment, tragedy, politics, deception and outright crazy!This tale is about Washington DC, the Jewish Experience, Family ties, Aspirations and somewhere about Henry Kissinger.
Bruce Gold is the protagonist - a jewish professor/author, in a high position with the Govt (though not sure what), part of a big family that he doesn't understand and constantly in wonderment about his Jewish experience.
The book can make you laugh so hard with it's political satire and take on Government.
His research for his books on his Jewish Experience and Henry Kissinger are factual and revealing.The plot is easier to follow than the other two Heller books I've read.
Oh dear.
The plot is about a middle-aged Jewish academic.
Erm, notice any similarity to the author at the time he wrote it?
The protagonist's offer of a high-profile job (Secretary of State) could be seen as an event somewhat similar in impact to one's life as publishing a classic like Catch-22.I remember talking with Jonathan Myerson about this in class.
He said that he and his wife have a pact - she shoots him if he starts writing about a middle-aged writer.According to Wikipedia, the novel is well-regarded by fans and critics.
SPOILER: This book is shit.Dear Joseph,I wanted to like this book.
I REALLY wanted to like it...
but I just couldn't.
The characters are about as forgettable as a new years eve hook-up, and with about as much depth and endearment.
(I.E none – a point of note for the sobre types)C22 is, rather standardly, one of my favourites but this has completely put me off Heller.
Throughout the book I couldn't help thinking that the 'jokes' were all so forced, obvious and just plain unwitty.The Good as Gold running gag...
I started out thinking that this book was okay, definitely not one of Heller's best, but witty and insightful in parts. That opinion changed when I was nearly two-thirds through. This book is 500 pages long, but I swear it only has three of four ideas/jokes that it repeats over and over and over and over and over AND OVER to nauseating effect. Jokes that were funny the first twenty times became depressing after the five-thousandth repetition. And then there were all those digressions about Kissenger. Seriously, this book needed a f***ing editor.
To me, this book was a fairly loving portrait of a Jewish family, even with all of Joseph Heller's satire, and the obnoxiousness for which he portrays almost of its characters.But if you loved Catch-22, you'll probably be disappointed by this novel. The highest rating it gets probably is that it is not bad.
Did I love it? Nah.Did I hate it? Nah. I was left wishing I knew a lot more about Henry Kissinger, and feeling like I was on the outer of a lot of jokes. A lengthier review's over on my blog.
Gave it 2 stars because I can't rate Heller lower but this was a disappointment. The main character is a jerk, his family and friends are idiots and the plot is neither believable nor amusing and if it can't be one it should be the other.
All I can think about is that line from Hannah and Her Sisters. "How am I supposed to know why there was a holocaust? I don't know how the can opener works!"
This is one of my favorite Heller's books. It is really funny, I especially liked the White House politics. It is way better than "Something Happen".
As unique as Catch-22 is, it's unfair to compare everything Heller wrote afterwards to his debut novel. Good As Gold is part political satire, part autobiography, and part "it's a man's world" exposé. If you're familiar with Heller, you'll recognize the theatrical dialogue, partially grounded by a haphazard storyline, filled with characters brimming with colorful descriptions and occasional hilarity. Joseph Heller was typically more concerned about the journey itself, as opposed to fastening a nice pretty bow at the end of each arc to satisfy the reader. One should consume his fictional works as such.
It had its moments of beautiful Hellerian irony & absurdism. However, there were also segments where I felt the narrative dragged due to being bogged down in political ranting & details of social commentary. Overall, I liked "Catch-22" better, but am satisfied that I finally had the opportunity to read this. Wouldn't read it again, tho'.
en blandning av tre delar:- politisk satir som catch 22, roligt.- familjedrama som bara är irriterande och för mig helt verklighetfrämmande.- judeskämt? boken är bitvis så uppblandad med jiddisch att det är helt oläsligt.
