https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3394.The_War_of_Don_Emmanuel_s_Nether_Parts
De Bernieres obviously has much fun inventing.Gabriel Garcia Marquez is serious and poignant; this more modern storyteller has a larger sense of humor and takes a less direct approach with symbolism; the population of the little besieged town is all of a sudden plagued with cats: the townspeople care about them and integrate them into their rural lives.
Oh yes- & according to the Santa figure that is the jolly Don Emmanuel, a cure for the war is...
In homage to Gabriel García Márquez, the godfather of magical realism, de Bernières serves up a rhapsodic, riotous, rollicking (and any number of adjectives beginning with ’r’) snortfest of salacious surrealism (it seems I’m bedevilled by alliteration today).It would take me all day to explain a storyline that encompasses a depraved army, an offbeat band of guerrillas and a fiesta of frivolity (I’m bloody at it again with the alliteration; it’s getting on my nerves).Perhaps I shouldn’t have read the second book first because I felt that this one paled in comparison.
It is, nevertheless, a hugely enjoyable read.
Some of the main characters include Don Emanuel , a wealthy landowner turning playboy and hippie, Dona Constanza Evans, the hauty but lusty wife of an oligarch, Aurelio, an orphan from ranching peons who gets empowered by a Native tribe in the rain forest, and Remedios, a female guerilla leader with a chip on her shoulder after sustaining the torture deaths of her parents as a girl.
The whole society is in a pathetic situation of suffering civil wars that have killed nearly 200,000 people, with little change in the situation of Liberal and Conservative politicians changing administrations every few years without touching the power of corrupt and greedy business leaders and their reins on the military.
Before attaining fame with his vivid description of rural life in the middle of World War II on a small Greek island, Louis de Bernieres flexed his literary muscles in this debut novel by painting an exuberant and subversive picture of life in an isolated village, somewhere between the Andes and the Amazonian jungle.
In the end, Don Emmanuel gives up on his tree-felling project, unlike the many enterprises that thrive on clear-cutting the lungs of our planet.The jungle is fascinating and full of wonders, but if I were offered a chance to visit the places described in the novel, I would set my goal on the Andes (view spoiler)[ just like the villagers who leave their original place in a march of biblical proportions  (hide spoiler)].
This book is great.
Louis de Bernieres really gets Latin America.
I mean, any author can write about how tragic it is to live in a contemporary Latin American country (amid crushing poverty, constant unrest, military rule, etc).
What de Bernieres recognizes is that everyday life in Latin America is also totally hilarious.
This book empathizes with people in tragic circumstances by laughing at them.
No one is spared the ridicule in this book.
Which is good, because just like in the real third world, humor might be the only way to keep oneself afloat in this book's swelling tide of violence, sadness, and despair.
This is the first of Louis de Bernières Latin American Trilogy and his debut novel.
Usually we can expect a South American novel to have aspects of magical realism, and there are those parts.
There are also parts where he exaggerates magical realism taking it to absurdity.
There are many factions in this fictitious Latin American country, most made up of either very right-wing or very left-wing.
The country of the trilogy is made up of a corrupt army, inept politicians, peasants, communist revolutionaries, with a few rich oligarchs thrown in for good measure.
I enjoyed this novel more as I got deeper into it.
I have no idea why it was so impressive so many years ago.
Here's what I had to say about it in this long-lost-recently-resurfaced piece of correspondence:I have started reading another book The War of Don Emmanuel’s Nether Parts, by Louis de Bernieres.
Dear ???, do you find my letters entertaining, provoking, or simply eternally desultory spirals predominantly (and preponderantly) concerned with “I”?As you can see, the piece of correspondence probably had no point in surfacing other than to remind me of the existence of the Don's nether parts.
But then, as some books manage to do, it lingered in my mind – like the shadow of some half-forgotten dream – and even though two decades had passed I couldn’t shake the feeling that there was something in ‘The War of Don Emmanuel’s Nether Parts’ worthwhile exploring further.So I read it again.Written before ‘Captain Correli’s Mandolin’ made him extremely famous, Louis de Bernières here conjures up a picaresque, magic-realist exploration of a fictional South American country.
I feel inherently bad whenever I decide to rate a book with such a dismal rating as “1 Star.” Yes, I am fully aware that my opinionated “1” means diddlysquat in the totality of things; that I am just a minuscule reader, one of millions, and my less than stellar rating is predictable should a publisher or an author apply even the most rudimentary standards of the law of averages.
And because this book was structured with shifting POV’s, those few characters who were interesting and redeemable were given such little face time that they too began to feel like scenery to a jumble of a tale.
This book is hilarious and fun to read and doesn't feel even remotely tragic, despite the fact that it's extremely violent and gory - there is rape, murder, torture, kidnapping, gun and machete battles, coups, etc.
I loved a discussion of patriotism towards the beginning of the book and how there are two types of patriots.
Anyone who wishes to write fiction should read this book but prepared to be disappointed - in your own abilities in comparison with de Bernieres, who has swiftly become one of my favorite English writers.
De Bernieres' wide pallette of characters and archetypes comes to extraordinary life in this fine first novel, the beginning of a trilogy on the people of Chiriguana and, later, Cochadebajo de los Gatos.
The novel is a roller-coaster ride of revolution, genocide, spiritual love, heresy and diaspora.
If you're looking for a great book to enthrall you for a weekend at the beach or a few afternoons at the pool, look no further.
Other countries are always in the wrong, they are less free, less civilised, are less glorious in battle, are perfidious, prone to falling for insane and alien ideologies which no reasonable person could believe, are irreligious and abnormal.
General Fuerte did not believe in 'my country, right or wrong'; on the contrary, he loved his land despite the faults he could so clearly see and that he laboured to correct.
It was his frequently stated opinion that anyone who supported their country when it was obviously in the wrong, or who failed to see its faults, was the worst kind of traitor.
I'm in two minds whenever I enter a de Beneieres' novel.
Yet this novel works: it has a cast of larger than life characters, it's satirical and darkly comical, and it also has liberal doses of South American style magical realism.
The story is set in a fictitious South American nation, a country whose incredibly scenic topography is marred by the typical historical problems that have occurred on the continent: corruption, political power plays, the exploiters, and the impoverished exploited.
Recommended for lovers of satire, and also lovers of rich writing, and -although not truly historical- lovers of historical fiction.
It has a great many ideas but often seems like de Bernieres is just using them without reason.
When it's good, it's very good, it has the power to be charming, heartfelt, shocking and humorous all at the same time (the chapter introducing of Parlanchina is a great example).
Unfortunately, some of the less powerful ideas drag the pace, especially when each idea rarely has any significance in later chapters of the book.
There is a lot going on to be admired, but the lack of conventional structure means that when the book is good, it can be great, and when its mediocre, it can terribly dull.
I loved this book!
I would love to see this made into a movie, but the book is wonderful because you'd never fit all of that into a couple hours.
There are a thousand small stories here, deep little vignettes which make the book feel very layered, and each of them entertaining.
The magic starts gradually, with the cats slowly becoming larger than normal cats, all the way to--- well, I can't give that away, but it is fun as hell and very satisfying.
But there are heroic men and women, who are also human and superhuman/magical in the end.
The ending is satisfying and also the beginning of more stories I hope to read soon.
Like Captain Corelli's Mandolin, I spent about a week getting used to it and then finishing the book in one all nighter (well in my case it was a bus ride during rush hour).
Really my only one complaint was that at times I felt like I was reading Gabriel Garcia Marquez, rather than Louis de Bernieres but I do know that his particular style becomes more prominent in Captain Corelli and Birds Without Wings (which I should actually finish as I only read about 50 pages of it ten years ago)One questionDo the remaining two volumes of the Latin American trilogy have the same characters as in The War of Don Emmanuel's Nether Parts?
Bernieres is one of my favourite authors - he has written two of my favourite books of all time - Captain Corelli's Mandolin and Birds Without Wings.
There is no one better suited for the epic historical novel, capable of writing in a heartfelt manner about everyday people faced with circumstances and events outside of their control threatening to uproot their life.In Captain Corelli's Mandolin, his focus was on a small Grecian town during the Second World War while in Birds Without Wings he concentrated his attention on the Armenian Genocide and the cruelty inherent in religious violence.
The War of Don Emmanuel's Nether parts reveals the seeds of greatness in Bernieres while displaying the lack of restraint and excess that seem to characterise first time authors.

While at heart it was a war story, this particular book shines as an example of magical realism, carrying with it the people of an imagined country, making you either love them or hate them, leaving you weeping or cheering at their various exploits.
Parts of the book were also highly relatable, with Kenya going through the same absurdities as the country in the book: massive corruption, economic tinkering that hinders rather than helps progress, and a war over a small island in the middle of nowhere...All in all, this was my favourite book this year.But seriously, what was up with the giant cats?
I guess the comparisons to Gabriel Garcia Marquez are inevitable, but come on, you could do much worse than be compared to THAT icon. And tho I absolutely adore Garcia Marquez, de Bernieres is more accessible and injects more humor in his amazing creations. If I could exist in any fictional world created by an author, it would be in this town. I cannot recommend this book, and the rest of his trilogy enough. Brilliant, hilarious, brutal, and vulgar. I am in love.
This was quite possibly one of the most violent and strangest books I've ever read, and I've read a *lot* of strange and violent novels over the years. It was also one of the most fascinating, clever and enjoyable ones, too - impossible to put down. Loved the cats, General Fuerte, Aurelio was just wonderful, and the narrative was simply magical. I can't wait to get lost in the next one!
Its a masterpiece. A hullabaloo (which somehow succeeds to make sense) of all the highlights of Latin America, its forests, its magic, its corruption, its revolution, its heat, its way of life, its passionate people and all of its energy - all merged into this fictioutius country which Bernieres creates.
Dense, radiant, and all too politically familiar. A great part of the trilogy. I can only read a few pages at a time. It takes a while to figure out this book.
de Bernieres does a great job of creating a synthesized meta-history of the individual countries in the region of the late-20th Century.
Included with this I found his descriptions very evocative, both for the better and the worst (see above re: human atrocities and magic at the same time!).I will almost certainly return for the other two books in the trilogy; however, I do believe that the writing could also easily lead to series fatigue.
The War of Don Emmanuel’s Nether Parts – Louis De Bernieres4 stars“Life is nothing if not a random motion of coincidences and quirks of chance; it never goes as planned or as foretold; frequently one gains happiness from being obliged to follow an unchosen path or misery from following a chosen one.
There are nearly 40 characters whose lives intersect in a story that includes guerilla war, military corruption, paranormal intervention, brutality, passion, outrageous humor and biting satire.
At the beginning it is easy to read briefly about one character, put the book down and come back to it much later.
There are a great many similarities between this book and the later Birds Without Wings.
Trvalo mi docela dlouhou dobu než jsem se zorientovala a dokázala si jednotlivé postavy vždy znovu přiřadit k příběhu, ale tak od půlky knížky už to bylo lepší.Z celé trilogie se mi tenhle díl líbil asi nejvíc a určitě nelituji, že jsem se rozhodla přečíst všechny tři knihy.
Na plný počet hvězdiček tomu přece jen něco chybělo, ale tady je to tak 4,5.Kontext: V 1001 listu je prostřední díl trilogie - Seňor Vivo a drogový baron - ale rozhodla jsem se ji přečíst celou a popořadě.První věta: "Ten týden začal pro kapitána Rodriga José Fuguerase skutečně slibně."Poslední věta: "Na tomto místě se uzavírá historie války o zadnici dona Emmanuela.
I was first struck by the cruelty of this book, then by its levity, and then its beauty, and then its cruelty again, and then by its cunning little wisdoms, and then by its visceral moments of justice, and then by its cats, its humor, its cyclical sense of time, then by its cruelty again, and its humor again, and its humble, clever characters, and then, finally, I was struck by its largeness, its enveloping world that, for all its cruelty, for all the torture and the meaningless death, contains magic, wily and clumsy, absurdist and sentimental, magic for the underdogs, and only the underdogs.
Another reason I pause to give this book 5 stars, despite how completely in love with it I was at times, is that there really is a lot of violence.
This is the first of de Bernieres' Latin American trilogy, set in a fictional South American country, heavily resembling Colombia (but with elements from many other Latin American countries as well).
The plot follows multiple story lines and protagonists, including several villagers in the town of Chiriguaná, who are terrorized by corrupt militia, and the selfishness of the local landowners, and eventually decide to fight back.
During the course of events, the village of Chiriguaná is suddenly overrun with huge amounts of black cats who grow to be the size of panthers.
I like Louis de Bernieres' writing quite a bit.
There is so much graphic torture, violent death, rape, etc....that it's terrible.And still, somehow I like his work.
(I've read three so far.)I will add only two more bits here, just because I want to and not because they give you great insight into L d B's work.The first occurred when I was reading his description of a torrid sexual encounter between two characters.
I'm certain he enjoys making his creations live.Secondly, the title is great but really has almost no relevance to the story.
It seems to be an idiosyncrasy of novels set in Latin American countries that there must be: underlying or overt sexual yearning, gratuitous violence and miscommunications, duplicitous actions verging on the ridiculous, corrupt government and mystical events.
The penchant for the ridiculous seems to have been a standard set in Don Quixote transferred to Latin America by a conquistador heritage and amplified by sexual yearning.
I will read another Lois De Bernieres to clarify whether Hollywood sanitised my two other favourites: "Captain Corelli's Mandolin" and "Red Dog" and to bare whiteness to whether these two have continued the latent sexual tension and mystical connection or if it is in fact part of a genre that defines Latin America.
