https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17166225-the-miracle-morning
First, the overall premise is not a bad idea.
The basic premise could be summarized thus:To improve our lives, we must improve ourselvesThe morning is the best time for self improvement (have energy, quiet, easier to make time)Spending an hour doing a little of few good practices goes a lot way to self improvementThose exercises are:Silent meditationAffirmationsVisualization of the day aheadExerciseReading, particularly to learn somethingScriving (aka Writing, journaling)10 minutes each.
I'm going to try this general idea because I don't think it is bad; I just wish I didn't have to slog through so much text for so little information.
Good idea, terrible execution. Save yourself the read, here's my short summary:Get up an hour earlier. Do your face, teeth and drink a large glass of water immediately. Go into another room of your house (i.e. not your bedroom), and spend the hour doing the following: sitting in silence, say what you want to achieve and work on today, visualise how you want to live your day, exercise, read and journal.
So the writing is cringeworthy (over-the-top internet self-help blogger), but the technique rocks. I've been doing it a week and it's been the most productive and fulfilling week I can remember. Having described myself as a morning person for a while now without really being particularly good at it, I'm excited to be back on the wagon. It's a fast read (easy to skim most of it) and only a couple of dollars on amazon.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.(original review, 2012)“Why is it that when a baby is born, we often refer to them as “the miracle of life,” but then go on to accept mediocrity for our own lives?
Where along the way did we lose sight of the miracle that we are living?”“How you wake up each day and your morning routine (or lack thereof) dramatically affects your levels of success in every single area of your life.
Focused, productive, successful mornings generate focused, productive, successful days—which inevitably create a successful life—in the same way that unfocused, unproductive, and mediocre mornings generate unfocused, unproductive, and mediocre days, and ultimately a mediocre quality of life.
Elrod's background is in multi-level marketing sales, and a LOT of the text reads like a sales speech.
Without the sales pitches, this book could have been condensed to less than 100 pages of pure content.I've had the interesting experience of reading Nook books with live links to web content, and for the most part, that's a great way to present changing or frequently-updated content to the reader.
One chapter outlined a "packet" to download, then walked the reader through some of the elements of a 30-day challenge -- it would have been helpful to have that either in the body of the book or as a live link.
He gives good advice, and I'm sure it works for those who stick to it.
That being said, there were a few things that bothered me.
Most of the book is all filler fluff - he takes forever to make his point.
The other thing that really bothered me is he keeps throwing out all these statistics, and while he might cite a couple, he by no means gives his sources for most of them.
It's mostly, "I recently read a statistic that said..." I want to know where this info came from and if it's legit.
Other than that, it's good advice.
I really like this book. I've been an early riser for several years and have fallen off the wagon for several years. I always need a swift kick in the pants to motivate me. This is helping. My only reservation for this book is the use of the "95%" statistic. Every stat Hal gives is "95%". If you're going to give outrageous stats to motivate people it would be helpful if 100% of them were referenced and backed by actual scientific data. Other than that 95% of the book is worth your time.
Not sure why this book has a close to 4 rating here:- Very exaggerated way of writing. He could have done some of the chapters with 1/3 of the words.- First 20 pages are only testimonials. Very annoying you can skip that.- Tries to sell his 'starter kit' at least a dozen times in the book. What is this, weight watchers? Feels like my adblocker is switched off.- Half of the book is captain obvious.- The motivational way of writing ('YOU can do this!') is very repetitive and unnecessary.Still 2 stars since I learned some interesting concepts (esp about affirmations).
Very rah-rah, very "I was down and now I am up and YOU CAN TOOO!!!!!1!!!1!!"That's not why I read it.I've been trying to come up with my own morning routine that would help me get my ass in gear, work on the things I think are important, and basically get more focus and traction on the projects and aspects of life I want to improve.
I think the ideas in this book will help me create my own morning routine that will make me happy.Was the writing good - most the time no.
Good methods. Bad writing.
As such, the rating may be likely to change.As a brief overview the central idea this book puts forward is that creating a daily personal development routine can turn you into the person you need to be to help solve all your problems.
You have the power to develop into the person you need to be to create everything you have ever wanted in your life.
These six daily practises can help you to become the person you want to, and can be achieved in only one hour of time, each day.I'm going to take some time to create my visualisations etc.
An interesting moment for me is that most of the books that the author mentioned in his book read before and totally agree on all the points.The "Miracle Morning" book will help both "larks" and "owls" make your morning energetic, happy and full of joy all day long.
А саме головне після прочитання - це розпочати використовувати метод "чудовий ранок" у своєму житті.Трохи про основну ідею книги - це декілька пунктів чи правил, які потрібно робити кожен ранок:- вставати мінімум на годину раніше, ніж ви це робили раніше,- "тиша", 5-10 хвилин медитації в тиші з будь-якою методикою дихання (знайдіть що підходить саме вам).
Personnellement ce n'est pas du tout ce qui me correspond et je vois plutôt cette méthode comme du temps pour soi, prendre du temps pour l'introspection, la lecture, l'écriture et pour leurs bienfaits personnels mais pas forcément dans l'objectif d'être "mieux" que les autres.Je pense donc piocher quelques idées de ce livre mais je ne suis pas sûre que cette méthode, en tout cas telle qu'il la présente, me corresponde actuellement.
I think this has been the fasted read I have had since highschool.
The guy has a nice idea and a sensible self-improvement tool to offer but the essence of the book could have fit into half the volume of words or even less.
One that was meant to be heard, not read.
I am glad it is not the first self-improvement book under my belt or it could easily have put me off the genre.
Some of my previous reads have been truly life-changing.
It also gives you a link to a nice little printable tool.
Excellent book!!!All those years of listening to Jim Rohn and Tony Robbins, here comes Hal putting everything together in such a simple and profound way that is amazing.
You are awake at 5 am while most people are asleep and the silence allows you to see the bigger picture of things that I couldn't see before as a night owl.
your world is still asleep and hasn't got a claim on your attention.
read the book, join the Facebook community and start tomorrow.Thank you Hal. God bless you.
Read this in an hour because I skimmed through most of the pages. It didn't really give me any new information or useful tips. Most things seemed too farfetched and bogus claims.. anyway I read it and don't recommend it. Waste of the $5.

LOVED it! I can't wait to incorporate this 6 step miracle morning:• Silence - Meditation, Reflection, Prayer• Affirmations - Repeat positive affirmations• Visualization - Visualize your goals• Exercise - A brief morning workout will help get your day started right• Reading - Personal development is essential to your growth and towards attaining your goals• Scribing - Keep a journal to share your thoughts, ideas, goals, and gratitude
It did, however, really make me sit up and pay attention at points, and has given me a new idea of a way I can potentially improve my life and maximise my time.Hal Elrod's miracle morning isn't so much a genius idea as a great one that most people would probably want to actively avoid - get up earlier.
Some I am just at a sticking point with, like exercise and scribing (in this case, journaling), and others I have never even considered to, or even scoffed at (affirmations and visualisation).The way Hal Elrod talks about his own experiences in this book, particularly the horrific car accident he was in where he almost died, fell into a coma, and was told he might never walk again - it really is inspiring.
Very American, type A stuff but has a decent structure and system for starting your day.
The good: if you strip away all the stories and achievement bollocks at the start, there's actually a good enough system for getting your day underway on a productive note.
The bad: a bit 1980s self-help for the rest of the book.
The classic 'I was on top of my game and smashing my targets and had it all...' 'Then tragedy struck....'.Some people might draw motivation from reading it but if you've heard all that before and aren't interested in giving it 3,000% just skip to the actual routine section.
Book could have been 5 pages and just as useful.
Not sure why I picked this up-- perhaps just so many good things about it in the "ether"? perhaps a search to make things better?I am 100% behind the practices he recommends (well, maybe not to read self help books-- so make that 83% behind) though this presentation doesn't provide evidence (other than anecdotall) supporting them (needless to say, that's something of a frustration to me) but I find the tone difficult to deal with and it reads empty to me (though I admit, I'm in the minority here).
As the author of "The Miracle Morning" I have been blown away by the overwhelmingly positive feedback (300+ five-star Amazon reviews) and life changing results experienced by readers! See for yourself at http://MiracleMorningBook.com. Or get 2 FREE chapters of the book at http://MiracleMorning.com. Either way, please let me know how The Miracle Morning impacts YOUR life! With sincere gratitude, - Hal
I have always found that easing into my day with relaxing routine in the morning gives me a good start.
Elrod spends an hour (approximately) each morning to give him a good start to the day - and life!
The miracle morning is made up of meditation, visualization, affirmations, writing, reading and exercise.
The book goes into detail and also discusses the forming of good habits (the miracle morning being one of them).
I already read and journal in the morning so now I am putting into practice the other four components.
Mit allem was dazugehört: Dem jungen Helden, der erst scheitern muss um anschließend wie der Phoenix aus der Asche steigt.
Der manischen Art hinter dem Versuch einem 60 Minuten mehr Zeit morgens als Antidot zum Leben wie wir es kennen zu verkaufen.Nicht falsch verstehen - vieles davon funktioniert sicher.
Ich stehe tatsächlich schon lange so früh auf und habe in diesem Buch nicht nach Argumenten für dieses Verhalten sondern Verbesserungen für meinen morgendlichen Ablauf gesucht.In einer anderen Rezension habe ich gelesen, dass dieses Buch - eingedampft um die unnötigen Teile - etwa 5 Seiten stark wäre.
Ich gebe eine sechste hinzu - damit der Autor seine zweifelsfrei spannende Geschichte in angemessenem Rahmen wiedergeben kann.
This was recommended to me. Honestly it's not the most well written book. It's very repetitive at times. BUT the principles it teaches are so worth reading about. I've started my own Miracle Morning routine and all I can say is on the days I actually follow it I get so much more done on those days. This is a quick read and it is free on Kindle Unlimited so to all who can access this for free you should definitely download it and read through it.
the writing was a bit overdone, with some common success catchphrases and repested things over and over. That being said i cant argue with the results or message.
Крім того, Елрод стверджує, що його книга допомогла тисячам людей стати успішними.Погоджуюсь, в книзі міститься безцінний досвід людини, яка пережила суттєву реабілітацію після жахливої аварії (11 переломів кісток, перелом черепа, шестиденна кома і тд), але той факт, що автор рекламує інтернет групи типу meetup.com і безліч книг із саморозвитку збиває спантелику.
Повністю вся книга підкачала, схоже на лінивий копірайтинг: автор часто вдається до переповідання думок з інших книг, подає їхній список (реклама?) та пропонує лінки на вебсайти (наприклад BNI), які насправді не знадобляться кожному читачу.
Чомусь мені здається, що існує набагато цікавіших книг, які занурюються глибше у вивчення тих чи інших проблем.
Além disso, não sou nem um pouco fã da motivação estilo The Secret (basta pensar positivo para sua vida mudar).O livro é naquele estilo "caí, quase morri, me reergui e agora estou bem melhor, há males que vem para o bem, você também consegue, veja como".
O sistema sugerido é abreviado pelo acrônimo SAVERS:Silence (silêncio e meditação)Affirmations (afirmações do que queremos alcançar)Visualizations (visualizações dos nossos objetivos sendo cumpridos, etc)Exercise (exercício físico)Reading (leitura, especialmente de não-ficção)Scribbling (manter um diário)Com as devidas alterações do que funciona melhor pra você, o sistema é bem legal.
The worst of its genre of personality-driven personal development books.
Repetitive, poorly edited, entirely available for free without the constant onslaught of Hal stories.
Like 2/3 of this book was hearing how 1 hour solved Hal's depression.
This is not wrong about what makes a successful morning.
The book was also a reminder of how little systemic injustice is accounted for in the white-guy-personality-cult-self-help world.
All you have to do is transform yourself and then you can have wild success is a statement you can only make (and sell) from a position of extreme privilege.
Mental health, racism, misogyny, all can be overcome in this one hour!
:)Предполагам, че не ми допадна "препускането", тъй като си падам по по-плавния, да го кажем дзен подход към нещата.
Предполагам, че книгата не ми допадна именно, защото аз обичам по-различен тип книги за усъвършенстване, но от всяка книга има какво да научим и да си вземем.
С тази също беше така, тъй като имаше някои наистина добри моменти, а и най-после научих какво всъщност е miracle morning, което отдавна исках да разбера.Ще пробвам в някакъв адаптиран вариант това, което той "проповядва", защото няма как да навреди в крайна сметка, но специалния е-майл посмъртно няма да го разпратя.
