https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6619539-do-not-go-gentle-into-that-good-night
Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at the close of day;Rage, rage against the dying of the light.The first verse of his most famous poem. Thomas passed, gentle or not, “into that good night” in 1953 at the age of 39.

“Do not go gentle into that good night.Rage, rage against the dying of the light.”

This is a very emotional and passionate poem.
The feelings of Dylan Thomas would rush forth very vividly from the beautiful writing towards the readers.
He was greatly admired for being able to use the villanelle, which was meant for the French language, in English.
Indeed, he effectively utilized this poetic tool to his advantage—Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night was meticulously and perfectly crafted into poetry that bursts with emotion.
It was painful, sad, and it offered a different perspective on death.
We should fight and struggle against the inevitability of this occurrence, for why is it that death should arrive at the most unexpected moment?
Read by Richard Burton: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2DLqN...http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p01yk0kpDuration: 02:09Tom Hollander reads Dylan Thomas' Do Not Go Gentle with Debbie Wiseman accompanying on the piano.Part of Radio 3 celebrations of Thomas's hundred years since his birth.
Inspired by the fabulous movie Interstellar, I read the whole poem. It was likeable.
I really enjoyed this. :)
To be honest I am not big on poetry although I loved to read poetry to my daughter when she was little.I think I do like poems but just never have taken the time to learn more about them.That was up till I rad this poem. The first time I heard it it struck a chord. The words are so strong and touch my heart.Do not go gentle in that good night.Old age should burn and rage at close of dayRage rage against the dying of the night.These are the first 3 lines and they are so strong.Love, love love.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Tonally, the poem is enhanced by Thomas’ obstinacy, enveloping the reader in his mesmerisingly optimistic world.
A poem that struck me when I was 16, something about it resonated.
Thomas actually wrote this poem as his father was dying.
A passionate moving poem. Do not go gentle into that good night.
I am not crying... You are crying...
Real rating: 9.8/10The sports movie of the poetical world. Do not go gentle is a poem that suffers from only one flaw. It needs to be read aloud, where works by the likes of Keats are intimate and to be kept inside, Thomas's work needs to be read aloud and it needs passion.
لفتت نظرى تلك القصيدة عند مشاهدتى لفيلم المخرج كريستوفار نولان الأخير "Interstellar" وما اثار حيرتى 
“Rage, rage against the dying of the light.” In this heart-wrenching villanelle, the speaker adresses their dying father in a desperate plea which can leave no human being unmoved. Dylan Thomas immerses the reader in a whirlwind of emotion through his ever passionate, poetic images that emphasize the praiseworthy behavior of those who live with intensity, and the importance to fight a valiant battle against impending darkness. Overwhelming and hopeful, it is a reminder not to fade quietly into
“Rage, rage against the dying of the light.”
In this heart-wrenching villanelle, the speaker adresses their dying father in a desperate plea which can leave no human being unmoved.
Dylan Thomas immerses the reader in a whirlwind of emotion through his ever passionate, poetic images that emphasize the praiseworthy behavior of those who live with intensity, and the importance to fight a valiant battle against impending darkness.
Overwhelming and hopeful, it is a reminder not to fade quietly into death, for great things await us still in the living world—we should rant and rave and resist it every step of the way.
Even though this poem is about fighting against the inevitability of death and how the speaker wants to fight death, I love this poem for its passion. I also love the symbolism associated with fighting against something that we don't want to accept.
I do not usually read poems, but this one I remember from school and the fact that I still remember it is enough evidence of the effect it had on me. Got goosebumps when the guy in Interstellar started reciting it...
3 starsTrying to find a rating to match this poem's power was hard, and I must say that it is a resonating and moving piece. Ultimately, it deserves the 3 it stands at now, but since I can't give half stars, I really enjoyed it.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
A gorgeous poem. The villanelle structure so potently reflects his message to living and dying.
One of my favorite poems.
The grim, fierce, brilliant poem that everybody knows thanks to 'Interstellar'.
This book is a great read!
