https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199065.No_Man_Knows_My_History
In fact, I was surprised by how generous Fawn Brodie was with Joseph Smith.
Despite her own religious skepticism, she seemed to have a real affection for Joseph Smith and his people.
Even Bushman’s biography which came out last year adds little to what she wrote, and she was the better writer (note that Bushman’s book is still in my “currently reading” folder – it is very well-documented and thorough, but it is a bit of a slog).
Any work is in some way a reflection of the author, and in writing this book Brodie convinced me that she was a sensitive, intelligent person possessed with academic integrity.
This book helped answer my question: Why did my paternal ancestors join the Mormon Church in the 1830's and 40's.
The answer?
Fawn Brodie does a brilliant job of researching and portraying Joseph Smith in all his complex glory and hubris.
I found myself liking Joseph Smith, in spite of his lies, delusions and manipulations.
But when he began endangering the lives of his followers and covering up and denying his polygamous marriages I realized how sociopathic he really was.
The only "miracle" that Joseph Smith performed was to hoodwink millions of LDS followers to believe in his fantasies.
As a starting point I confess I am somewhere on the order of a seventh generation member of the Church Joseph Smith founded.
I am, I would like to think, genetically a “Mormon.” And yes, it is not without irony that I admit my predicament.In understanding my approach to “No Man”, one must consider that Brodie was excommunicated from the Church after publishing the book and never returned.
Does Brodie bring to light difficult information regarding the translation of the Book of Mormon, Polygamy, and the events that lead to Joseph Smith’s death?
Or that might totally freak you out.The story of the life of Joseph Smith is as interesting as that of any early American one would think to name.
I really would recommend this book to anybody looking to gain a better grasp of Mormonism.You might also want to check out Mormon Country by Wallace Stegner.
I am more than a little reluctant to confess to having read this book, since I am a practicing Mormon, and in the culture of my church, No Man Knows My History is regarded as an abomination and a work of the rankest sort of heresy.
To cite only one reason for my view, I have read the Book of Mormon about 75 times, and simply do not believe that an unlettered 23-year-old living on the American frontier in the 1820s could have produced such a work on his own.
You want the real skinny?
Faun Brodie dishes it out in engaging and painstakingly documented research (if you don't know who she is, she's the historian who at one time was dismissed as a pop historian, that is until DNA proved the gal knew exactly what she was talking about: she declared Jefferson had children with his slave, with evidence from his letters that showed a direct correlation between his new and constant use of "mulatto" when describing his land to the estimated time he took up with Sally Hemming, his paramour and slave.
1.0 - I was interested to read a book on Joseph Smith that was written by what I hoped would be a mostly non-biased non-LDS author. I came to realize rather quickly that this author was extremely biased. Upon further research I learned that she was an ex-mormon with her own self-justifying bias. It was clear from the portions I read that her portrayal of Joseph was fueled by a very one-sided predetermined agenda. A much better biography is Joseph Smith: Rough Stone Rolling.
He had just finished reading Bushman's book (who is a believer that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God) (which I also just reviewed) and was now reading this book to get the opposite perspective (Brodie being a non-believer).
I was surprised that there were a few reviews -- where the people admit not reading the book but entirely condemn it because they know that she writes as a non-believer and was ultimately excommunicated for writing it.
On the flip side, because Bushman believes Joseph Smith did indeed have a prophetic calling, he spends a lot of time trying to explain the doctrines and justifying how a prophet of God could be so mislead in financial and personal issues.
But this book is absolutely not anti-Mormon, and isn't even anti-Joseph Smith.
On the contrary, I finished this book liking Joseph Smith an awful lot.
As portrayed here, he was clearly brilliant, charismatic, energetic, incredibly loyal to his friends and family, a born leader, and a man who honestly wanted the best for people.
But really, as this book makes pretty clear, the only really big problem was the polygamy issue.
But if you can forgive him the polygamy thing, it seems like Joseph was really a great guy.
Any man who creates a faith that works that well for people is deserving of being called a prophet.
It was refreshing and fascinating to read a fair account of Joseph Smith and the early history of his church.
What may have started out as a noble cause to leave behind the folly of his youth quickly became a scheme to aggrandize himself to the glory of a king with ambitions to create a theocracy of which he was the leader and Word of God. I highly recommend this book to anyone seeking respite from the endless hero-worshipping propaganda spewed from over the pulpits of the LDS Church, as this biography is of yet the only fair and honest account, showing the tyranny of Joseph equally to the violence and hatred he received from his enemies, that I have ever read.
I didn't read this book for a long time because I was told it was anti-mormon literature, which I do not read.
It is amazing how there is so much history regarding the prophet and the early mormons that they DONT teach you in the church.
Although I understand the importance of teaching faith promoting history, this account shows a more accurate history of the life and times surrounding the early church and the prophet.
It's been an entertaining read, and I feel like I understand the prophet better than before.
I am only halfway through the book, and am just getting to the section on polygamy.
At first Brodie's narrative tone was rather grating, as if she was trying to hard to imagine what it was like to be in Joseph's shoes.
But I think partly it was the spin that was fun to read because there isn't much in here that wasn't in "Rough Stone Rolling" other than maybe some questionable sources.I found it very refreshing to see the two perspectives while reading the two histories.
He did leave out some of the more questionable 'hearsay' sorts of sources that Brodie used but still managed to paint a very full picture.All in all, I found the book fascinating.
This is a must read for every Mormon and Mormon researchers. This expands the horizon and opens the mind to the life of Joseph Smith. A fascinating and entertaining read. Fawn Brodie had insights that many have come to respect and proved her self a worthy historian with her other well respected and accurate works as well. Anyone researching Mormon history should read this first.
This was the first book I ever read following my discovery of the hoax behind Mormonism. It was first published in 1945 and I was lucky enough to obtain a UK 1963 First Edition. It is beautifully written and remains to this day one of the best exposes of the 'real' Mormon facts.
Fuck.
This book is VERY interesting. It is well researched and full of fascinating info on the life of Joseph Smith. Fawn Brodie is carefully to present the information as is and rarely places her own judgment, leaving it to the reader to decide on Joseph Smith's mindset and character. The info is thorough and, at times, dry and difficult to read through; which is the reason for a 4 rather than 5 star rating.
Fawn McKay Brodie is no Mormon herself, she does not believe in what Joseph Smith preached, and she does not dwell deeply on the spiritual development of Latter-day Saints.
When he dreamed up the Book of Mormon, and then contrived to write it down and distribute it, everything began to change.
As the book brought followers and inspired missionaries, Joseph Smith's literary work became the cornerstone of faith for tens of thousands of people.As his following grew, however, so did his hubris.
They controlled the use of property of church members - and repeatedly made bad investments or were swindled.
When Smith died, Mormonism was still a young movement.
I opened it at random three or four times before I committed to reading it, and I think the average time before I closed it again was 25-30 minutes.And what a story.
Brodie is practically inside Smith's mind from time to time (aided by the hundreds of thousands of words he left behind) and while the Mormon Church was negative about the book, it seems unlikely to me that all Mormons believe in the physical existence of the Tablets anyway, and what matters are the rules for life and worship Smith left behind.Just a wonderful piece of work.
I read Richard Bushman’s “Joseph Smith: Rough Stone Rolling” and Fawn Brodie’s “No Man Knows My History: The Life of Joseph Smith” together to get two differing viewpoints on the events in Joseph Smith’s life.
Brodie’s skepticism is obvious when talking about the First Vision and polygamy, but the rest of her book is far from the apostasy that I had been led to expect – she presents Joseph’s human side and portrays both the pro-Mormon and anti-Mormon viewpoint of the occurrences in Joseph’s life.
People got mad when Joseph promised the Mormon vote to both sides and didn't come through.
A much easier read than Rough Stone Rolling as her prose is more engaging than Bushman's, though I'm glad I read RSR first - I think reading this when my world had already fallen apart would have crushed me.
She doesn't hide the fact that she thinks the BOM and Mormonism is fiction, but I can't blame her there.
Oh, and reading the epilogue was quite entertaining (and the only part where the 1940s publication date was obvious) as the church she describes is nothing like the church I know today!
I was inspired to finally read this book during a recent visit to Utah with my ex-Mormon wife.
For any student of history and religion, this book is a gem.
Any Mormon who doesn't read this book is denying themselves a genuinely balanced view of the founder (and founding) of their religion.
Most Mormons I've spoken to know very little about the founder of their faith, most of which has been hidden from them by the leaders of the church out of a fear (I suspect) that the truth would undermine the foundation of their faith.
Read this book and decide for yourselves.
I hope this book is not totally out of favor with believing Latter-day Saints, because Brodie's look at the life and person of Joseph Smith is as good as it gets.
Bushman seems to minimize topics like polygamy and the Book of Mormon, and too often relegates things to footnotes when they don't fit the story he wants to tell.It's amazing to me now that Fawn Brodie was so demonized at the time for her portrayal of Joseph Smith.
But I think at the time the LDS church was used to being able to control the message and tell its own story, so naturally it was the faith-promoting topics that were told and retold.
This would have gotten 5 stars because of the stunning amount of research included, except she frequently used phrases like, "...
he certainly felt ..." I don't think she has any notion how people felt, and it lessened (for me) the general feeling of objectivity that the book had.Although the book was not apologetic, it definitely felt fair to me.
Because of this, I would recommend it to anyone; the curious and LDS friends alike.
This is a very well written, carefully documented book by a well respected professor of history at U.
I cannot list favorite quotes this time along as there are just too many to note.This took a long time to get through not because it is a long read, which it is, almost 500 pages, but because it was just too painful to read at times.
My ancestors fell for the lies of this con man and the consequences are painful and persistent.".....scholars in every university, save that named after Brigham Young holding the Book of Mormon to be a fantasy." P.
I was a bit surprised at how much I enjoyed reading Fawn Brodie‘s biography of Joseph Smith, No Man Knows My History (NMKMH), especially since it is infamous in Mormon circles and sometimes described as anti-Mormon. I have to disagree with that assessment. To me, Brodie was not attacking the faith tradition, Joseph Smith, or his early followers she was merely doing history on a fascinating person and used a secular non-believing analytical lens to do her work (which is the primary contention believing members will have with the work). . .For a longer reviewhttp://wp.me/p6r7eE-45
Absolutely wonderful book on JS.Very helpful in explaining how this worldwide religion (LDS) managed to get off the ground and continue to exist in its current strength despite the illegitimacy of it's foundations.Very helpful to members of that church who cannot bridge the gap between "True" and "reality".
Others, like Bushman, have tried, but Brodie's work paints a portrait of Joseph Smith's thought process as he faced various crises, triumphs, and failures that others can only attempt to imitate.Active temple Mormons will most likely dismiss her conclusions as tainted, wrong, or biased.
I found that viewing Joseph through Emma's eyes was very helpful and illuminating.One word of caution: Brodie completely dismisses the Spaulding-Rigdon theory for the origin of the Book of Mormon.
Brodie begins with the assumption that there is nothing "supernatural" about Joseph Smith's life.
If Joseph and all his followers are having supernatural experiences, they must be unreliable sources.
The result is an extremely skewed and unrealistic view of Joseph Smith.
But it is a version of Joseph Smith that a non-Mormon can process and conforms to the standard anti-Mormon propagandized caricature that is popularly accepted.Brodie does construct a powerful narrative, but you will be left wondering why anyone continues to take him and the religion he founded seriously.
He also provides a much fuller description of the historical context and why people viewed Joseph the way they did.
For being such an old book I found it much easier to read then I thought I would. The author has a pleasant writing style, and although she adds a lot of her own opinions, I found the story nice to read through. It was interesting to read her explanations for some things, and interesting to see her not even attempt to explain others. Joseph Smith definitely had a gift, and was able to charm a lot of people into following him. I plan on doing more studying...
Fascinating, well-documented biography about a subject very rarely covered by non-Mormons.
