https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3386324-wolf-among-wolves
The wisest thing Wolf does is to marry Petra, a sweet, lovely and clear-headed young woman from the working class, who goes to bed with Wolf for the money, a desperate thing that many hungry and impoverished women did in Germany after World War 1.
With the rent due, and feeling lucky, Wolf pawns his wife's clothing and steals a valuable painting from his mother's house to sell for a stake; and when the police bust the illegal casino, he loses everything.
I learned a great deal about pre-World War 2 Germany from the book, and what the Germans were struggling to recover from when Hitler offered them his deadly cure.
The book is, to me, slow to get started as Fallada introduces us to the lives of the large cast of characters.
But his look at the characters individually is quite focused and sharp.
Fine fine work.Like Every Man Dies Alone, this one is superb in depicting the lives of "ordinary" people in very unordinary times, the great inflation of 1923 in Germany, when virtually every German was a millionaire, but a loaf of bread might cost a hundred million marks.
A large cast of characters can make things confusing, especially in the beginning, and this one doesn't have the incredible plot "hook" of EMDA, but still a very very fine book.
. While Every Man Dies Alone was based on the true story of a working class couple in Berlin who mounted their own modest campaign of resistance by dropping postcards containing anti-Nazi and anti-Hitler messages throughout the city, Wolf Among Wolves takes an even closer look at the struggle for integrity and survival amid the post-World War I economic disaster that contributed to Hitler's rise to power.
Although the second half of the book does not contain as much detail, Fallada often uses foreshadowing at the end of various sections to keep the reader on task.Unquestionably, the realistic detail of events and characters' psyches was key to making Every Man Dies Alone and 
Germany 1923: with exponential deflation, ever-rising poverty in the cities, and the French occupation of the Ruhr in the background, Fallada follows the fortunes of three ex-soldiers who had fought together in WWI but who now, like most of their countrymen, are struggling to make sense of the present state of chaos.The soldiers move from hunger-, drink-, cocaine-, prostitution- and gambling-stricken Berlin to what they imagine will be a better life in the countryside, however their hopes are disappointed: around them, a downward spiral of recklessness, infatuation, envy and revenge takes its toll.
This is the most amazing book ever.
It vividly portrays unstable aura of the Weimar republic and the excesses of 1930s Berlin, but is above all a gripping story, about Wolf's fall from grace and decline into gambling addiction, and how he sets out to win back his girlfriend, who is pregnant unknown to him.
Hard to describe the epic nature of this book - only to say it reminds me of the convoluted intrigue of a Dickens novel, with all the twists and turns, vivd detail and a rip-roaring story.
Let me know if you get hold of it (from your library) and if you liked it!
Fallada creates a setting profoundly dark, even more unnerving because of the greater darkness to come, in which a lost people witness the very structure of their world rapidly losing hold.
Morality crumbles and a general predatory instinct roots deeply into the shocked hearts of a shaken people.
"People read of these things in the papers.
"Wolf presents a panoramic shot of 1920's Germany from bustling Berlin to the sprawling farm estate Neulohe through which people from all walks of life navigate in confusion, frantically adjusting to a world which won't sit still and secure.
Herkes Tek Başına Ölür'den sonra okuduğum ikinci Hans Fallada eseriydi. Yine üzüntüye boğarken mest etmeyi bildi.P.S: Bu tarz çok sayfalı kitaplar tuğla basım yapılacağına iki kitap olarak basılıp satışa sunulsa şahane olur. İnsan kitabı okurken kitabı taşımaktan resmen helak oluyor.
later...WOLF AMONG WOLVES – HANS FALLADA – MELVILLE HOUSE 2010The 1937 Publication with restored text.
From Wikipedia, “Its (Wolf Among Wolves) first unabridged translation into English by Philip Owens was published in 1938.”German humor – who knew?
From Hillary’s new book (currently reading/skimming), "I do wonder sometimes about what would have happened if President Obama had made a televised address to the nation in the fall of 2016 warning that our democracy was under attack.
According to media reports, part of the reason why the nation didn't know about the evidence implicating Russia in election meddling until after the election is because President Barack Obama wouldn't go public unless he had the support of Republicans in Congress.
Good insight into different sources of insanity..
The central story revolves around Wolfgang "Wolf" Pagel ( I kept asking myself if Fallada intentionally incorporated the protagonist's nickname into the title).Pagel starts the book off living in Berlin in a dingy, prostitute-ridden boarding house with his girlfriend Petra.
This addiction leads to him selling off all of Petra's clothing, leaving her only a coat to wear.
She sees Pagel as a man who saved her from the street and as a result doesn't try to change his ways.Pagel tries to help Petra one day by selling off a painting that belongs to his mother.
Pagel accepts it and the next day he leaves for the country.Here's where the book got me.
I am a slow reader; I read this 800-page novel in ten days. It is gripping, suspenseful, powerful, painful, bleak, brutal. Fallada describes how runaway hyperinflation caused the financial and moral collapse of post-WWI German society and demonstrates how differently people can react to extreme deprivation and hardship. He writes with both touching empathy and unsentimental clarity. I agree with the critics who hail this as Fallada's masterpiece.
Published in 1938 ... depicts the catastrophe in Germany caused by hyper-inflation by showing its impact on several interesting characters. I plan to have my major German character (in the novel I'm writing) read this book and reflect on his own experiences in 1923.
I knew very little of conditions in Germany after the armistice and it was great from historical side of things. The narrative was a bit like a soap opera but there were many passages of interesting observations of social strata and life choices.
This is the best book I read in 2010 - incredible narrative power, detailed character development and a comprehensive evocation of the ethical dilemmas facing people in Weimar Germany.
i gradually came to love this dark saga.
the shadow of the just-finished great war lies on some of its characters, not always a dark one, but the economic and social rug is pulled out beneath the feet of all of them by the great inflation of that year.
tensions are visible which the reader knows even more completely than the writer (written 1937) will fuel disaster.
greater than the chronicling of this time, and the twisting plot that builds tension throughout, were the characters.
i love great editors as much as great authors.
"Wolfgang Pagel reflected that, not long ago, he had thought with pride: 'I'm not tied to anything; I can do what I want; I am free...' Yes, Wolfgang Pagel--now you understand: you were free, unfettered like a wild animal.
But humanity is not about doing what you want, but rather about doing what you must." This is one hefty novel.
If you're someone who loves Netflix's Babylon Berlin, European history, or just a good plot-driven novel, then this is a must-read.
The read is itself the reward, however.
I am so glad that I have stumbled across Fallada, and I look forward to reading Every Man Dies Alone later on this year.
Först överraskad av det otippat farsartade och dråpliga i denna historia, som utspelar sig på en ytterst allvarlig scen.
Ett samhälle i förfall, kaosartad inflation och desperata vägar till överlevnad på alla samhällsnivåer under Weimarrepublikens sista tid.
Men den handlar också om människan och vad oväntat som händer hennes karaktär i svåra tider.
Berättarglädjen sprudlar och utvecklar sig till i det närmaste en deckarhistoria.
Först tänkte jag ge den en trea, pga av just det raka berättandet som nästan snubblar över sig själv i viljan till action, men det blev oemotståndligt till slut.
En författare som tidigt förstod vad som krävs av en "bestseller", utgiven 1937.
An important book that tells a story set in the financial chaos of 1923 Germany brought about by war reparations. It centres on the character Wolfgang Pagel who, from an unfavourable beginning in a seedy and unstable Berlin, rises in stature as a character. At times, the plot, concentrated over a short period of time, is difficult to follow and the book is rather too long but as a whole, it is an exhilarating read.
This book is worth the read.....you need to get to the end where it all comes together. Try not to skip over anything because tucked inside all of the detail and incessant explanation are beautiful nuggets of meaning about life and why life is worth living. Main takeaway....evil does not overtake everyone. Young men can mature and make good fathers....
This is the fourth novel I have read by Fallada and I enjoyed this one the least.The story is slow to establish and proceeds in a series of farces. I found it much more difficult than in his other books to come to grips with the time and place dimensions.
Like the style; great storyteller
I've given this 5 stars and that's unusual. This is an excellent book and arguably Fallada's masterwork.
In grand scale and intricate detail, Fallada’s epic of post-WWI, hyper-inflation 1923 Germany depicts how people from all walks of life struggle during trying times.
Although this could be seen as outdated views regarding people and their “sensibilities”, these changes in characters represent how uncertain times and profound economic hardship pits man against his friend, employer against his employee, and all against all to survive for their own skin.I both enjoyed and struggled through Fallada’s epic.
With a larger story and less direct references to political and social themes than his “Little Man, What Now?”, “Wolf Among Wolves” requires a bit more attention, reading between the lines, to truly get some of that desired social criticism meat underneath the superficial action.
Unfortunately for Fallada, far from deflecting Nazi attention, the success of this brilliant novel encouraged them to commission anti-Semitic and pro-Nazi works, and before long he capitulated to Nazi intimidation, earning him trenchant criticism from the likes of Thomas Mann who fled Germany rather than submit.Although he later showed great courage by writing The Drinker while in gaol (see my review) and redeemed his reputation with Alone in Berlin (see my review) Fallada was vulnerable to intimidation because of his mental illness and drug addiction.
This lengthy novel was Fallada’s magnum opus, published during the Nazi era, 1937.
Having read all of his major works, I can list my ratings as follows.
Individual critiques have been posted for each title.“Little Man, What Now?” 4 stars.
Factions, political intrigue, rivalries involving about seventy characters.“Every Man Dies Alone” 5 stars.
Dozens of characters are introduced in the first half of the book.
Having great admiration for Fallada’s other works, I loyally continued reading but frankly much of it was a slog.
My favourites: Rittmeister Herr von Prackwitz, a Homer Simpson or Ignatius Reilly of the Weimar Republic who is doomed to failure and obliviousness, most the book's action stems from his inability/refusal to run a farming estate leased from his father-in-law; Black Meier, a farming bailiff turned rogue; Lieutenant Fritz, whose secret arms cache is known to everyone in the village and whose Putsch is doomed to failure; Kniebusch, the aging forester who just wants the respect due his age and a stable currency that would allow him even a sham of a retirement; Sophie, a scheming former handmaid who helps orchestrate her lover's escape from prison; The mad baron and the doctor in charge of him, I forget their names but their antics in Berlin and a Sanatorium are quite memorable.
Though the novel is set in the Germany of the Weimar Republic, a period of history much more obscure to most Americans than the Nazi era of "Every Man Dies Alone", it deals with the same central question - how does one maintain their human dignity in a time of moral turmoil?The action follows a large cast of characters through a few months of 1923, a year in which the Reichsmark reached an exchange rate with the dollar of 4.2 trillion to 1, transforming paper money into kindling.
The book is narrated through the eyes of number of these characters, and spans a few months from autumn through to spring of a formative year for all those concerned.Although the tales are mainly told as personal stories of lives and loves, Fallada managed to depict the vagaries of all levels of society magnificently.
This, for me, is also art in its finest form - bringing the reader to hope that in all the depressing realities of life, things can get better - and then showing us that sometimes life is just really crap!
I did not enjoy this book as much as I'd wanted to, however, it is certainly worth reading if you are (and who isn't?) interested in Weimar Germany.
As an historical testimony from an authentic period writer it works well, offering valuable insight into what it was like to live through times that had, as we know, such devastating consequences for Germany and the world.
Still, I persevered and am glad I did.Undoubtedly the novel will appeal most to those keen to research the Weimar period, and to fans of Fallada's other books.
Wolf among Wolves is a flawed but important novel from a great writer.
Hanımlar, beyler karşımızda yine benim geç keşfettiğim gerçek bir şaheser var.
Everest yayınları Modern Klasikler serisi içinde yayınlamış kitabı ne kadar doğru bir iş yapmışlar gerçekten.
Hans Fallada en önemlilerin yanında en önemsiz gözüken kahramanların bile gerek fiziki gerek psikolojik hallerini çok ustaca anlatıyor, çevre - eşya - zaman tasvirleri bir o kadar başarılı adeta film seyreder gibi okuyorsunuz.
Klasik Fransız - Rus yazarlarından hiçbir eksiği yok Hans Fallada'nın hikayeciliğinin.
Son olarak bu ebatta bir eseri bu kadar su gibi okunur halde çevirmen Ahmet Arpad'a da teşekkür etmek lazım.
O da müthiş bir iş başarmış.
