https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824204.The_Little_Engine_That_Could
The huge wheel would turn the engine around 180 degrees so it could face back out towards the station - and start a new trip!Well, THIS little locomotive thought it could make its trip if it told itself it COULD do it hard enough...And, when it got really chugging away, Mom would read, ‘I KNOW I can!
I remember one night at that same kitchen table four years later, when she was studying for her finals prior to receiving her Master’s Degree in Library Science - with an excruciating migraine.She made like the little engine, except she was actually SINGING:ONE MORE RIVERAND THAT’S THE RIVER JORDAN!ONE MORE RIVERAND THAT’S THE RIVER TO CROSS!Because she KNEW she could make it.The day she received her diploma was a bright, warm spring day in Montréal.
Found this book in a second hand store. I have heard the term so often...decided to buy it. Great lesson for children and adults alike.
If I wanted clowns, I'd read IT.Secondly, why do only the good little boys and girls get toys and food?
As a parent reading this, that means I don't know what's coming or how to inflect certain words or phrases because I can't see how it ends.
To get through this edition, (because I must, because I love my son and would never hide the book behind a radiator in someone else's house like I very much would like to do) I employ several ridiculous, over the top voices and attitudes, and adjust my reading speed to twice that of my normal one.
Celebrity Death Match Special: The Little Engine That Could versus Neural Networks and Deep Learning"Oh, please help me!" begged the family filter.
"A bit of unsuitable content might do them some good." And he went on his way."How about you, good sir?" asked the family filter with increasing desperation.
Leave me alone!"The family filter had almost given up when the Little Neural Net came along.
"Are you quite sure we should be going this way?""Adagrad!
Adagrad!" puffed the Little Neural Net.
unreasonably effective!""It's all part of the service ma'am," said the Little Neural Net gravely.
This is just a classic story for children, introducing themes of perseverance in the face of difficulty. " I think I can, I think I can " (sounding like a train chugging along) vs. "I cannot, I cannot." (as the train slows down.) A timeless piece.
I rated this book a "5" because it is a classic book with such a great message to children.
Both little boys and girls can enjoy this book and appreciate the message in it.
Eventually a little engine helps although she thinks she is not strong enough to pull the train over the mountain because she has never done anything like this before.
The "message" in this book is priceless and timeless.
Too often children are told what they cannot do, rather than be told they can succeed if they just continue to try.
“The Little Engine that Could” by Watty Piper along with artwork by George and Doris Hauman is truly a cute classic that children will read for years to come!The story starts off with a little train carrying good things for the little boys and girls on the other side of the mountain such as teddy bears, dolls, books for the children to play with.
Will the little blue engine help the toys get to their destination and will the toys make it over the mountain in time to give the little girls and boys their gifts?Read this book to find out!
My momma read me this book when i was but a babe...
ever since i have been telling myself that no matter what life throws at me, i can overcome it, just like the little steam engine.
From the time i was in diapers, a wee little lad, I have lived by the motto "I think I can, I think I can" and thus far I have overcome insurmountable hills and mountains in my life...
just like the little engine.
I encourage all to read this book, but especialy those that face great trials and tribulations in life.
We can learn much from the little steam engine.
...[this book]brought me to tears...THIS DESERVES A MEDAL!
It's not that I think it's terrible or anything, it just doesn't hold my interest or appeal - it's very much a story from the early 20th century (or maybe even older), which makes it dated in a quaint way, but it's more the way it's written and how cutesy it is that makes me a reluctant reader.A simple story, it's about a little train that is carrying lots of "good things for boys and girls" in the town over the mountain.
I've found that the kids - 2 years old now - have a little trouble seeing the two illustrations, one on each page, as one long panoramic picture.
The repetitions in the text get a bit annoying for the adult reader (all the good boys and girls over the mountain), but of course the children like them.
Though the personificiation of an 19th century steam boiler might be classified as disturbing, this book clearly outlines mental ambition and perservearance. What's equaly facinating is how the book is ridden with antagonists: old trains, mean trains, tough trains... all telling the protagonist "choo-choo" the mountain "obstacle" is nearly impossible to overcome. The climax is a riveting edge-of-your-seat thrill ride which will leave you orgasmically shaking with tears and joy. Overall, a good read.
It was one of my favorite books as a child i could read it over and over again when i was a child
I still to this day say to myself " I think I can, I think I can". Kind of nerdy but this book had a lasting impression.
Stirring and inspirational!! There are multiple characters and Mom read them in different voices and I thought it was just a LAUGH RIOT! I plan to apply the lesson of the Little Engine to my ongoing effort to master "tummy time." -M
She just couldn't, but I encouraged her and kept reminding her of the "Little Engine That Could" and she persevered!!!She didn't learn to read until she was 12 years old (ironically, the same age she acquired glaucoma for no known reason, which is EXTREMELY rare in children and the same year we discovered she is legally blind!).
This legally blind girl with a learning disability is a total bookworm and is reading books that I read too!!
I prefer my blue anthropomorphic shunting (US: switching) engine to be named Thomas!A few things irritated me about this book:1.
Watty Piper never existed - it is simply a pseudonym for the publishing company Platt & Munk (now part of Penguin).2.
This is an issue especially because of the strong evidence to suggest that the story is significantly older than the Watty Piper, Platt & Munk edition.
See In Search of Watty Piper3.
Sometimes repetition is good - but in this case I simply found it irritating.
Awdry, staring of course Thomas the Tank Engine.
It's about a train that is carrying toys and food for good boys and girls on the other side of the mountain, but the the train breaks down.
The toys ask other trains that pass by if they will help pull their train over the mountain.
But then, a little blue engine pulls up and realizes that if she doesn't help, then the good boys and girls would be without their toys/food.
The little blue engine slowly began to pull the train over the mountain while chanting the classic phrase "I think I can." The little blue engine makes it over the mountain and delivers the toys to the children.
And the other engines refuse to pull them cause they're either too strong, fancy and big to pull the likes of them or too old and dusty and think they just can't!
Little blue engine stands out and hitches herself to the little broken train and climbs up and up and faster and faster till she reaches the top of the mountain and down the valley to the city.
Everyone's happy and because of little blue engine's help.Brilliantly brighful illustrations I absoloutly adore them and can't just get enough of looking at them.
A great story and definite a keeper for my collection.It aims to deliever a message to help teach children and adults to overcome adversaries and believe in themselves, which i believe is a great message.
Everyone gave up on the toys but not that little blue engine that could.'I know I can, I know I can, I know I can''I knew I could, I knew I could, I knew I could...'The little blue train never doubt himself, never gave up and achived his goals.
The book would be ideal for children aged 2-6 and is sure to become a much-loved favourite.
This is a beautiful, top quality book with amazing illustrations and with a wonderful, positive message.
A story of perseverance in cute children's images, this book is worth reading many, many times to your child because of all the literary allusions they will encounter later to this childhood lesson. Start the kid young with a book like this, then build on the ideas of working through the hard hills and working despite what others may say or think, and you will have a child with the life skills of resilience and perseverance! Fun read, but also edifying.
One of the best books that a child can ever read, as it teaches them to always have a positive attitude and never, ever give up.
It's an organization that gathers many campaigns in one spot on the web to encourage people to read many books for children.
(Thanks love!) The campaign I chose to be a part of is called Jumpstart for Young Children.
It will benefit children everywhere.Do you know how much this book has influenced me throughout the years because I read it to my younger brother when we were kids?
If you want your child to learn the important lesson of never giving up, working hard for what you believe in, and striving for you best, then you should definitely let them read this book.
Perhaps one of the most famous and beloved American children’s books, is the story of “The Little Engine That Could.” Filled with wonderful toys and dolls, fruits, creamy milk, fresh vegetables, and delicious after meal treats for good little girls and boys who lived on the other side of the mountain, the happy little train comes to a stop when her engine can go no further.
Although she has never been over the mountain, the little engine sees their desperate situation and thinks of the good little girls and boys on the other side of the mountain who are eagerly awaiting the train’s arrival.
With the exception of the original little engine, all the engines have been give a personality, which truly stands out to the reader.
And in a sense even unnamed and provided without a personality it does make you wonder what happened to the original engine in the story although I am sure children won't pick up on that to begin with.
The other thing that always made this book stand out to me was the telling of the foods and the toys that children would get over the mountain.
Reading it again as an adult, I really appreciate how timeless the story is and how useful the message is that it contains.I'd also never noticed before that the Little Engine is female.
And, I also discovered that she is one of the few female engines in children's books about trains.
And, honestly, if the Little Engine had be male, there would be those who still would find it sexist because a male was "saving" the other train and being a hero.I love this story just as it is and I hope it will continue to be popular far into the future, even as the steam engines become unrecognizable to the children who read it.
A train carrying toys and food for good boys and girls on the other side of the mountain breaks down.
The little blue engine realized that if she didn't help, then the good boys and girls would be without their toys.
After agreeing to help, the little blue engine slowly began to pull the train over the mountain while chanting the classic phrase "I think I can." The little blue engine is successful and the children are able to get their toys.
Even though this book was originally written in 1930, it is still enjoyed and read by children today.
Everyone knows the story of the little engine that could! The red engine was full of toys and delicious food that he was trying to get to the other side of the mountain with all of the goodies for the boys and girls but it got stuck! All of a sudden, a shiny new engine came and the clown asked for help but the engine wouldn’t help. Next, a big engine came but he wouldn’t help either. Another engine still came after that but he was rusty and too tired to help. Finally, a bright blue engine came
The red engine was full of toys and delicious food that he was trying to get to the other side of the mountain with all of the goodies for the boys and girls but it got stuck!
Next, a big engine came but he wouldn’t help either.
Another engine still came after that but he was rusty and too tired to help.
Finally, a bright blue engine came up the hill and was concerned about the toys.
He admitted he wasn’t big, but agreed to help pull them up the hill.
This is a story that a child will carry with them all throughout their life.
The distinct saying "I think I can, I think I can" is one that the reader is sure to never forget.
This is just the thing that students need to hear sometimes to encourage them.The illustrations in this book are also wonderful.
I read a newer version of the book with illustrations by Loren Long and they were great.
The illustrator definitely brings all of the characters to life and they would definitely appeal to children.
This is a classic inspirational book for children everywhere.
A different engine came along and they begged it to take the engine across the mountain.
The little blue engine wasn't very big at all but he did everything possible to get the bigger engine over the mountain so the children could have food and toys.
By saying that, the little engine that could helped get the food and toys to the children.
They are very pretty and all the toys drawn help express the different emotions felt within the story.
You can see how everyone came together to help the little engine believe in himself.
Piper, Watty. The Little Engine that Could. New York: The Platt & Munk Co., 1954.Genre – Fiction The little engine that could is a classic picture book about an engine that came along and helped a broken down train after other trains refused. The train was only a moving train that had never been over the mountain but when it thought of all the girls and boys who wouldn’t get their toys and food, it was able to help. The building up of the story was when the engine came to the mountain and st
New York: The Platt & Munk Co., 1954.Genre – Fiction	The little engine that could is a classic picture book about an engine that came along and helped a broken down train after other trains refused.
The train was only a moving train that had never been over the mountain but when it thought of all the girls and boys who wouldn’t get their toys and food, it was able to help.
The building up of the story was when the engine came to the mountain and started chiming “I think I can, I think I can” then after it made it, the engine steamed down the hill “I knew I could, I knew I could.”	I remember personally liking this book for the illustrations.
