https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310259.Love_You_Forever
Which makes what's inside so fucking freaktastic!So the story opens with this mom rocking her baby and singing this little song...I'll love you forever.I'll like you for always, As long as I'm livingmy baby you'll be.My 7 year old girl is now snuggling in for what she thinks will be a good story.
My 12 year old son raises an eyebrow, but still tucks his feet under him, and settles in on the couch.The next page is the kid dumping shit in the toilet, and making a general mess while his mother says, This kid is driving me CRAZY!We could each relate to that scene in our own way.Because children are horrible.
(later when the mom is sick the only pictures on her wall are of the kid, no husband or parents -- again, kinda weird) And later on in the book when the kid is grown up where is the mom to his baby - single dads are awesome but the absence of characters is chilling here.3) This mom I seriously think has issues with letting her children go.
Quit trying to cuddle them!4) When it gets to the part of the old woman tying a ladder to her roof and driving across town with the lights off, then sneaking in the son's window to cuddle and sing the love song --- I just want to scream, " AAAGH, she's coming!!
Hey parents, do you want to read a children's book that will make you cry uncontrollably from the third page all the way to the end of the book? Well look no further, this is the book for you. Honestly? It's a very sweet book. But get ready to do all the crying while your little kid looks up at you, with an expression that says, "Seriously dad, what the fuck? Do you need a tissue or something?"
I like sappy sometimes.
Here's what I didn't like about the book.Where do I even begin?
The cover makes it look like it's some sort of book about potty training or something.
I realize that the mother sneaking into her grown son's house via a ladder is supposed to be kind of funny (at least I hope it is), but it is still creepy and weird!Finally the overall message of the book.
I love you because you're my son, but I really don't like you very much.
Because it's the only time he's peaceful and quiet and not "driving [her] CRAZY!"
This woman USES A LADDER TO CLIMB INTO HER GROWN SON'S WINDOW, PICKS HIM UP OUT OF BED AND HOLDS HIM WHILE HE SLEEPS.
Do I need to repeat the "grown man" part?
We've got breaking-and-entering here, along with the fact that we never once see this woman tell her son she loves him while he is, oh, I don't know, AWAKE.
There's something she might try.I realize I'm probably reading far too much into a little Robert Munsch rhyming ditty, but it has become so revered by the masses that I feel the need to speak my piece.
But Robert Munsch simply overexaggerated while portraying this message, and finally made me see a totally different message in this book: That a mother's love justifies stalking her children and entering into their lives in one of the creepiest and most disturbing ways - by climbing a ladder to her son's bedroom, entering the house and picking her son up to rock him back and forth while he's sleeping.I'm sorry, but this is so weird, I can't even find it funny anymore.
Maybe, just maybe, I would've appreciated this story more as a kid, when I saw the world through innocent and unspotted eyes, but now I know such words like STALKER, PEEPING TOM, OBSESSIVE CREEP, LOONEY.
I just wanted something sweet **sniffs** This is definitely better than Edward Cullen's night watch sessions.
Maybe a lover watching his love sleep is better?
But still, mothers creeping across floors and through windows at night, rocking and singing love songs to teenage boys and grown men.
Like bloody hell!You want to rock and sing to me?
I just love this book.
I first read this my Freshman year of college.
I cried then and I cry when I read it to my girls.
It's the intergenerational, unconditional love of mother/son and then father/daughter that I feel a strong connection with.
The mother's corniness just adds to the tenderness of the book.
I am touched by the mother's love for her son, the son's love for his mom, and then the son's love to his daughter...a breathless tradition passed from one generation to the next.
I was so inspired I made up a tune for the words to "the song" for my girls.
I love this book..............My earliest memory of this book is my mom reading this aloud to my two year old self, and crying as she finished the last few pages.
Now im the one who starts crying whenever i pull the book out and stare at the waterworn pages.
Anyone who's read this book knows the words that the mother is constantly saying to her son as he's sleeping-I love you forever I'll like you for alwaysAs long as I'm living My baby you'll be.My mom made a tune for those words, and I cant imagine those words without the song.
It was my little lullaby when i was younger.
This is the only children's book I've ever read that stuck me as more depressing than "The Giving Tree".
I read it once and promptly lost to book.
I don't think I could EVER read it to my son.
I know one day my son will grow up and leave, and I'll get old and die, but I'd rather not dwell on the subject.
I didn't want to THINK about leaving my parents and my home.
Yes, the mother is saying "she'll love him forever", but what child with reasonably attentive parents doesn't already know that?
It might scare the crap out of them.
If you take the story as how irritating children are and you love them anyway, no matter what, then it is a great book.It is weird to see the mother sneak into the kids room at age 9 and rock him, and I think it is supposed to be about the love you have for them.
I didn't think the art was all that great either.
I did read this to the kids and it didn't seem to bother them too much.
It didn't scare them and it didn't really affect them either.
So be warned, before you read this review, that it is coming from someone who loves this book for exactly what it is; a beloved childhood relic.Gee. My, oh, my.
I'm not ashamed to admit that when I read this book it makes me cry.What I find is that people complain that the mother hugs the child (apparently hugging your baby is molestation now, according to a few choice reviewers.
It saddens me that people have taken something that is for children and pushed it into the adult mould until it ends up labelled with 'creepy'.
It reassures me to see so many people find this book as creepy and loathsome as I do. I know the lesson we're supposed to learn is that we never stop being the apples of our parents' eyes, but all I ever got out of it was that if you feel at all smothered by your parents, you better get used to it, because it will never end. Also, moms are inherently stalkery. And while I hope that wasn't the authorial intention here, I can't shake the feeling that maybe it really was.
I cannot read this book to my kids without doing the 'ugly cry,' which, naturally, creeps them out... every single time.
Edit: the moral of the story here is that growing up is necessary, endearing, and also bittersweet. You see a little boy grow up and the process repeated. It’s one of the more serious children’s books I have ever read. It’s something that is both good and a little depressing to think about. Second time I have written this review. Also, I think it says something about the toilet. We are going to inevitably to spend a lot of time there. Circle of life. **************Ok. There was a review here with dates. Alas POOF! So under renovation. :) apologies.
One star is too high for this book! I would have given it negative stars if possible. This is a story of a dysfunctional woman who only tells her child she loves him while he's asleep. He perpetuates the cycle with his daughter. The image of this old mother sneaking into her son's bedroom at night is just too weird, and the thoughts it presages of this man creeping into his teen daughter's bedroom someday are even worse! There are too many wonderful picture books celebrating familial love to waste time on this creepy distortion!
" I'll love you forever,I'll like you for always,As long as I'm livingmy baby you'll be"A mother repeats this phrase to her son at night, continuing this as he grows up.
No matter how old they get, they are still yours and you love them.
No matter what I do or go through she loves me.
And that is the message I love about this book.When I first saw this I half wondered what it was about and hoped it was not about toilet training.
And yes, I'm sure that I will always have the feelings that my son is still my little boy who I will want to rock forever.
Clearly her son does not want to be rocked as an adolescent and young man and she has to crawl across the floor like a stalker in the night and sneak into his bed while he is asleep to rock him.
Also, what is wrong with this relationship that the mother can only acknowledge her love for her son when he is asleep?
So in his waking life, her son only experiences his mother's disdain, not the love that she feels when night falls.
ONE OF MY FAVORITE ROBERT MUNSCH OF ALL TIME!I read this book way before I had kids.
I was a student teacher in my first job and I had never read it before.
This story came out of left field for me, who was accustomed to reading the lighter side of MUNSCH.
My recommendation is to read it first to yourself before you read it as a bedtime story for your kids.
Even now my youngest daughter Désirée, cries with me when I read it.
This story KNOCKED THE WIND OUT OF MY SAILS!
This is by far my absolute favorite book to read to or with my children. The first time, I could barely get through it, I cried so hard!I still get misty eyed everytime I read it. Especially when the grown son carries his mother upstairs and rocks her to sleep.I have to turn back to the page where grandma takes off in the station wagon, with the ladder hanging over the roof of the vehicle, whilst racing to her sons' house.That helps soothe the waterworks.Make a mental note to watch how the cat ages along with the growing child, too.
But when you look deeper--I know it's a kids book, but still, work with me here--you find a semi-creepy relationship between mother and son.
Don't get me wrong, I completely relate to what the young mother is going through--kids kinda suck when they're little, which is why God made them cute.
I can see why a mother would take a sleeping little angel in her arms and tell him that she "loves (him) forever, she loves (him) for always.
I don't know how to rate this star-wise because I really can see how creepy (a common word in reviews for it I've noticed) and over-sentimental it is, but I can also see how sincere and profoundly universal its message is.
Then I suddenly recognized the book from my childhood and remembered my mother reading it to me and her being moved by it and I metamorphosized instantly into a sad sack of sentimental jelly turned it's-so-undeniably-sad-that-things-change-and-change-then-die-regardless-of-our-love-for-life-and-mom-etc quasi-existentialist.
Can't pin these things down with stars.
i have to admit when i first read this, i was fully engulfed in post partum hormonal mayhem.
i broke this out last night to read to my son (who is now almost 3) and while the story is still touching, it's a little creepy when the mom drives across town - in the middle of the night - to hold her 40 year old son on her lap and sing to him.
"look honey, I know your mom loves you and all, but there comes a time when you need to, ya know, cut the cord."so go ahead, read it to your kids, just skip the crazy page.
Boy, I'm a softie when it comes to kid's books. I can't even read this one out loud to my kids because I cry like a baby. Good thing they are willing to read it to me still. I remember reading this when I was a kid and it made an impact on me back then. The book is a whimsical explanation of just how much parents love their kids, and the power that comes with loving someone is how they love you back. Love is it's own reward in regards to parenthood...Great for kids of all ages, I'd think!!


Mother's love is always the purest kind. I'm glad to have read this poem on my mother's birthday!
I read this book every year to my Kindergartners--haven't made it through yet without crying! It's a great book to give to a new mom or dad. So different from the rest of Munch's silly books--same structure, though. I gave this book to my mom for mothers' day some years ago when I was young and really broke--but it was a great gift--she loved it!
shudder... eeeeh... bshhrrr... gggggh...
This book makes me cry every single time I read it. A friend gave it to me when my oldest son was born, and a parent educator that taught a class that I took when both of my kids were babies had made up a little tune to the song. She sang it at "storytime" during every class. I don't think the mom in the book is "creepy" like some people do. I see this more as magical realism, not that it's trying to advocate that people actually climb in their grown children's windows.
