https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285092.High_Fidelity
I have a problem.You see, when it comes to reviewing my favorite books, I’m all thumbs.
Mr. Hornby, you make me want to wear dresses.During my last year of high school and through all four years of college, I too worked in a record store with a bunch of misfit music snobs.
But I feel you fella.Anyway, you can see how I’m completely flubbing this review, right?
Hornby has my number.
Tired of Being Alone - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ICKToz...2.
Alison - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vs6HbY...3.
Lets Get it On - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=18TLHh...4.
Mr. Big Stuff - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ooYEx...5.
The House That Jack Built - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XmUXn...
I browse, I choose, I read the blurbs inside, I deliberate, I read a chapter from ever book I've chosen.In short, I only read things I'm really likely to like.So, I will tell you right now, if there were a way to give [High Fidelity] six stars, I would.Ostensibly it's a novel about pop music and love.
Even though I'm not a music expert, I see a lot of myself in the main character Rob - escaping into pop, defining his life through records, filling his head with facts rather than feelings and trying, oh so desperately trying, to be a real human being.His relationships never last.
Reading this book felt like being trapped in an elevator with the pathetic Scrubs douchebag (Zachy McWhinerson, or whatever his fracking name is) for an entire weekend.
You know the type - the constant puppy need for the approval of every critter on the planet, all the time.
Many fine books have been written about unlikable characters.
But when you find the central character so annoying that just reading about him makes you twitch, it's probably time to switch to another book.Your mileage may vary.
For all I know, you're the kind of person who watches marathon "scrubs" reruns.
If so, you'll probably love this book.
I'm not the narrator and he's not me, but often wish life could be cataloged as clearly as my music.Published in 1995, Hornby's debut novel is the stoic, immature and unapologetic first-person account of Rob Fleming, a thirty-five-year-old who lives in a one-bedroom flat in the North London neighborhood of Crouch End. Rob owns a record shop called Championship Vinyl which specializes in "punk, blues, soul, and R&B, a bit of ska, some indie stuff, some ’60s pop--everything for the serious record collector".
His two employees and perhaps best friends-- the shy, awkward Dick and the loud, obnoxious Barry--pass the work day thinking and talking in lists: top five Dustin Hoffman films, top five Gerry and Sylvia Anderson shows, top five sweets that come in jars, etc.For us readers only, Rob categorizes his all-time, top five most memorable split-ups.
Also, I was a huge fan of the movie when it first came out, but this was my first time reading it.In some ways, Rob reminds me of myself back then: insecure, paranoid, over reactive, etc.
I definitely get that – if this was not set during such an important time of my life and if it didn’t mirror a lot of aspects of my social life at the time, I probably would be too turned off by the frustrating characters and Rob’s basically inappropriate approach to every situation.But, nostalgia wins this time – now I have to go back and watch the movie again!
Especially Barry, who is described by Rob as a 'snob obscurantist', makes you laugh uncontrollably with his habit of belittling everything, his sneaky tactics of selling records of artists no one has heard of and his interactions with Dick.And so the plot meanders through the zigzagging life of Rob, touches briefly upon the lives of all the women with whom he had been in love at some point of time and settles on his on-and-off relationship with Laura.High Fidelity comes as close to portraying single life and romance as it actually is and not in the larger-than-life Hollywood rom-comish way.
Top Five Reasons to Read This Book:1) Offers multiple opportunities to fall off your chair laughing.2) Draws entirely convincing characters making stupid decisions and dealing with the repercussions.3) Reminds you of all sorts of artists you must check out further.4) Answers the "what if" questions of past relationships with horrifying clarity.5) Satirizes but ultimately validates top-five lists.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. I used to think-and given the way we ended up, maybe I still do-that all relationships need the kind of violent shove that a crush brings, just to get you started and to push you over the humps. And then, when the energy from that shove has gone and you come to something approaching a halt, you have to look around and see what you've got. It could be something completely different, it could be somet
I feel like this book was written as a direct response to Bridget Jones's Diary, though I don't know that for sure and I'm too lazy to check the dates.
And at first I was thinking, "hey, this is just Bridget Jones's Diary but with a Penis", but it isn't.
The same horribleness toward people the protagonists want to have sex with.
Please.I can't work out if the protagonist-whatever his name is, I've forgotten already-is supposed to be horrible, pathetic, whingeing, annoying, perverse-in short, a complete cunt-or not: is this the anti-hero kind of thing?
Rob runs a record store in London, has two weird sidekicks, creates silly top-five lists of everything and his girlfriend Laura has just finished with him.
Well, Rob is thirty-five selfish asshole, pompous snob and a pathetic, emotionally immature loser.
Do not worry, I will not treat you now with a tearful story about my ex, though I will tell you about a guy who, if I ever had compiled, in imitation of Rob, list of the most memorable and painful partings in my life, would have taken not only the first place.
It is in the making as a series with the gender of the lead flipped - interesting!This was an okay read for me, I feel my lack of music knowledge may have not made it a winner for me.
Meandering young guy, not knowing what he wants out of life it seemed to me, but he wanted a girl that's for sure.
Funny hearing the angsty teenage relationship uncertainty and sexual frustration from a guys point of view as it's usually flipped in the contemporary reads I come across.In general, the meandering feeling dragged this out for me and I wasn't fussed.
Ultimately, I found it sort of silly and empty and I had a hard time choosing between two and three stars, but I thought I'd give it a break here, because even though it wasn't funny like B Jones, it was a lot more culturally accessible (I don't remember what kind of music Ms. J liked, but I'll bet it was bad).After all, it's only dick lit, and it served its purpose, which was to preoccupy me while I suffered through the torturous experience of flying in an airplane.

You know, I don’t really get why the men are always the rich guys going for the hookers and stuff.
I’m pretty sure that I can pin it on something the movies led me to believe: perfect love.
I’m hell bent on keeping my options open, I never settle for anyone cause someone perfect or better might come and I don’t want to be unavailable when that happens.
Take these things with a grain of salt, cause I don’t really know what I’m doing.
But that doesn’t mean shit about knowing anything about this love and relationship thing.
Let me explain how much I liked it.As things turned out, I watched it on a cross-Channel ferry travelling from Caen to Portsmouth.
I paid my £3 and sat down to enjoy the next couple of hours.Unfortunately, as often happens on this crossing, the seas were on the rough side.
The movie was far too good to miss.
I then happily watched the movie to the end.I suppose a skeptic will object that this story says nothing about Nick Hornby's novel and everything about my feelings for voluptuous brunettes called Catherine.
Of course the writing is wonderful and it really is laugh-out-loud funny in places but I also found myself alternating between skim reading (because the story wasn’t going anywhere) and all the 80’s pop music references and top 5 lists got to be a bit much.
He has zero self confidence yet at the same time is so full of himself that he expects everything to revolve around him, which of course it doesn’t and this in turn makes him lash out at his friends, parents and girlfriend to feel better about the state of his life.Rob is a bit of a loser; a thirty-something music junkie he spends his days running a near failing record shop and reminiscing about the 80’s when he was semi successful DJ.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars   I’d like my life to be like a Bruce Springsteen song. Just once. I know I’m not born to run, I know that the Seven Sisters’ Road is nothing like Thunder Road, but feelings can’t be so different, can they?   When Rob’s live-in girlfriend walks out on him, he’s left questioning all of his relationships and what led up to this point.When I first read High Fidelity umpteen years ago, I thought it was a home run. Grand slam, eve
My appreciation for Hornby’s talent will not allow me to rate any of his books below 3.5 Stars, I have nothing but admiration for his ability to write “anti-love stories,” and my adoration for Rob, the MC, remains strong.
I believe High Fidelity may have provided me my first experience of being 100% annoyed by the narrator and so happy to not know him in real life, while still wanting to hear his story and being fascinated by his crybabiness (made up word???
Yes, Rob, you are indeed, but somehow Hornby always makes characters like you work.Book version recommended to?
On a scale of one to rubbish, I feel Reading High Fidelity For The First Time Since I Was Sixteen And Had Just Broken Up With A Boy.Didn't even like the job much.
Now that I've read it twice, I can see that both times I've been in periods of emotional flux, on the edge of something good (well, I hope so this time anyway) and leaving behind a thing that was beginning to push me in a direction I didn't want to go in.
(hide spoiler)]What surprised me, because I didn't know it first time around, is that this is Nick Hornby's first book.
Rarely do I catch myself reading a book after I'd already seen the movie (mostly because I feel as if the movie TAKES something from the book while the book GIVES something to a movie, and thus the order should always be book first and movie second -- so that the book starts with the upper hand), but having enjoyed the movie so much I found myself craving more behind the story.I wasn't disappointed.

Nick Hornby is da bomb! Seriously. He's funny, astute and while one might think they are reading a straight-forward, comedic tale, there are some fairly deep assessments going on within. Some moments made me laugh out loud and some moments, all too relatable, made my heart hurt. Also - Hornby's book totally made me have an awesome dream about John Cusack and that can never be a bad thing. Ever.
Hvala Bogu i ovom dođe kraj.
Really good book, great film!four stars
Bob Fleming ha una vera fissazione per la musica pop, tanto da averne fatto il proprio mondo, la propria forza e il proprio rifugio: oltre ad essere proprietario di un negozio di dischi che costituisce la fonte delle sue incerte entrate economiche, possiede anche una collezione privata, che riordina ogni volta che si trova in crisi e costretto a fare il bilancio della propria esistenza.
Sono i brani che ama a scandire i momenti più importanti della sua vita, inoltre è in base ai gusti musicali che giudica le persone che incontra.
Come Hornby affronta la vita, l'amore e la cultura britannica mi piace sempre molto e averlo letto in inglese me lo ha fatto apprezzare ancora di più.
La musica è ciò che più conta nella vita del protagonista e i suoi dischi sono un pò un rifugio, quasi come per me i libri.
La differenza è che Rob è un pò uno snob, per cui se non hai i dischi giusti non sei una persona con cui lui può andare d'accordo...ma anche questi tratti un pò più spigolosi del carattere dei protagonisti Hornby li rende simpatici, caratteristici e ciò che, in realtà, ce li fa amare.
3.5/5Βιβλίο για την αδυναμία μερικών ανθρώπων να ωριμάσουν.Εντονο χιούμορ. Πολλά αγαπημενα τραγούδια ...
Through it all he's constantly trying to win back Laura from the hated hippy Ray. I know at first glance, a book like this can seem somewhat shallow in premise, but it's hidden gem like that.And it's hard to think that a book about a 30something depressed bloke born 15/20?
well this book is for everyone who is depressed, and hates their life, wishes they worked somewhere else, wishes they were with someone else, but knows there is nothing magic about to happen to save them from it.
But as far as I'm concerned the translation from book to movie was still near perfect.
John Cusack used to wear band t-shirts in all his films (notably The Clash).
I love passion about music 'cause then I wanna relisten and see if I can feel what they felt.Making lists is fun though.
Laura's new boyfriend was hilarious.My favorite part of High Fidelity is that spying on other people's collections stuff.
(Goodreads is the best website ever for my spying.)If you get excited when the cool music or book clerk compliments your taste you'll probably like High Fidelity more.
I recently got the snob mocking my fantasy book choices so I'm still stinging...(Another music list: Best monkey songs from former Genesis members:1.
"sex is about the only grown-up thing i know how to do; it's weird, then, that it's the only thing that can make me feel like a ten-year-old""so maybe what i said before, about how listening to too many records messes your life up...
it seems to me that if you place music (and books, probably, and films, and plays, and anything that makes you feel) at the center of your being, then you can't afford to sort out your love life, start to think of it as the finished product.
I realized about halfway through the book that Rob Fleming is basically me in dude form, which is probably why I found him so insufferable.
I quite enjoyed this story of a mid-30s dude who loses the relationship that has kept him grounded for years.
Throw in a lot of "Top 5" lists, and this is me in a nutshell not too many years ago.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologize profusely to everyone who had to deal with me, because Rob Fleming made me throw down the book in anger and frustration more than once.
I'd only ever seen the movie, and thought John Cusack's character came across as a colossal ass of epic proportions.
(I mean, really, going to your ex-girlfriend's father's funeral and trying to envision how you can best position yourself to get her back is pretty fucking low.) He's self-aware enough to know that he's being a total ass and that he is in part responsible for his own shitty life, but not self-aware enough to actually do anything about it.In Hornby's defense, I don't think he was trying to say, Hey, look at this misunderstood sad man and take pity on him and maybe even have sex with him!
