https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/902.The_Westing_Game
and i am going to take a little bit of my brain, and a little bit of everyone's brain here on goodreads.com (you'll be asleep, you wont feel a thing) and then i am going to moosh it all together, and put it in the brain of the red panda.
because if i had had one of these when i was little, then it would have told me, "you love peggy parrish and her wordplay-based mysteries and you have seen the movie clue enough times that you can recite the whole thing (still can).
here's a book you will like".
i would have loved this book like crazy as a kid.
Really fun, and I know without hesitation what third or fourth grade me loved about it.
Holy crap, you're gonna love this book, and be on board with it pretty much from the first chapter.
It has a diverse cast, which I didn't appreciate as a kid, because I didn't know any better, but which I deeply appreciate now.
Much of it reads as brief vignettes, which made it very easy to pick up and put down.I highly recommend this for young readers, and I highly recommend it a second time to adults who read it when we were kids.
This book sounded like it would be lots of fun, and I read it hoping for a great mystery. In the end I think there were too many characters, and not enough information to make any of them seem real to me. I never really got why they were who they were, except on the most basic level. Each character was just glossed over, and even though they were described in a basic way, there was nothing to really draw me in or make me care about them.
I loved it, returned it, and checked it again a few months later on another weekly library visit.
Other kids could have had more time with the restroom pass, but instead I hoarded that thing and sat on the white raised seat reading away.
So, still in love with the book.
But, it's good to see that I did well enough a job that she knew to find it herself and suggest it for book club.
My middle sister took a long time, too long of a time, to read this book.
This would be a great family read aloud book.
A well-written, twisty puzzle of a mystery, filled with fantastic clues, unforgettable characters, and countless red herrings. Turtle Wexler will always be a hero to me.
I just want to cut to the chase: the last three chapters, over the course of about nine pages, are some of the most moving I've read in a book written for kids. life, loss, death; growing up and getting old; compassion and empathy; sadness and mourning, sweetness and light. it's all there. such a generosity of spirit from Ellen Raskin. I would have loved to have known her. but I sorta feel I do, from those few pages. the book itself is a delightful lark. a lot of fast-paced fun, but with a surpr
I just want to cut to the chase: the last three chapters, over the course of about nine pages, are some of the most moving I've read in a book written for kids.
life, loss, death; growing up and getting old; compassion and empathy; sadness and mourning, sweetness and light.
such a generosity of spirit from Ellen Raskin.
I would have loved to have known her.
but I sorta feel I do, from those few pages.
the book itself is a delightful lark.
a lot of fast-paced fun, but with a surprising depth of emotion and a perfect understanding of human nature.
I read this little book for the first time not as a child - but as an adult.
I was looking for a book to kick off our Junior High book club and picked up the Westing Game to see if it might be a good place to begin.
By the end of the novel it's almost like you're part of a family reunion you know these people so well.Do yourself a favor - if you're a kid: pick up this book and have a wonderful time!- if you're an adult: pick up this book and enjoy being a kid again!
“Life, too, is senseless unless you know who you are, what you want, and which way the wind blows.”What a wild ride this was, and so much fun! I don't know how I would have approached this as a child or young adult, but it made me laugh at so many different stages! My brain is still feeling a little tingly. I never knew what was going to happen next, and I have a feeling that exactly the way Raskin would have wanted it. Can't wait to read more of her books."She said that she wrote for the child
“Life, too, is senseless unless you know who you are, what you want, and which way the wind blows.”What a wild ride this was, and so much fun!
I don't know how I would have approached this as a child or young adult, but it made me laugh at so many different stages!
I never knew what was going to happen next, and I have a feeling that exactly the way Raskin would have wanted it.
Can't wait to read more of her books."She said that she wrote for the child in herself, but for once I think she was wrong.
I think she wrote for the adult in children.
The books main events take place in a 5-story apartment called Sunset Towers and the Westing Estate.
Barney Northrup, a sixty-two year old salesman, is selling apartment spaces in Sunset Towers to secretly selected sixteen people.
Soon after the sixteen settle in to Sunset Towers, Samuel W.
The heirs are all called to the library in the Westing Estate for the reading of the will.
Grace Wexler is married to Jake Wexler, and they have two kids, Angela and Turtle.
If you do choose to read The Westing Game , they have places for people like you.
I don't understand why this book won a Newbery Award.
It was confusing and sort of awful.
Additionally, for today's reader, it felt extremely dated and had some remarks in it that I would call "un-politically correct."It all starts with a group of eccentric people of all ages who quickly become involved in a mystery game involving a large inheritance.
The person who first solves the mystery wins the inheritance.
Clues are given along the way, but I'm not sure whether or not the reader was supposed to be able to solve the mystery.
As a child, I probably read this book as many times as I watched the movie "Clue" (brilliance), and that is a lot! I loved (and still love) anything with a clever girl as a protagonist. Turtle can stand her ground among Nancy Drew and her ilk. Raskin's cast of characters feels somehow simultaneously real and fantastical, and the mystery is juicy enough to keep you hooked until the final moment of checkmate.
i know this is meant to be a childrens novel, but that thought never crossed my mind whilst reading this. it actually reminded me a lot of the film ‘clue’ - its mysteriously engaging, wildly eccentric, and dangerously witty. a very quick and fun read! 3.5 stars
"Today I have gathered together my nearest and dearest, my sixteen nieces and nephews...I, Samuel W. Westing, hereby swear that I did not die of natural causes. My life was taken by me-by one of you!...Cast out the sinner, let the guilty rise and confess. Who among you is worthy to be the Westing heir?"  16 UNLIKELY HEIRS ON THE HUNT OF A MURDERER AMONG THEM? The Westing Game begins.I never would have thought that this is a children's book. Because honestly, the ingenuity of the plot transcend
Who among you is worthy to be the Westing heir?"
The Westing Game begins.I never would have thought that this is a children's book.
Wait, I'm so sure that it is this one YAAAY, uhmm nope.
What I loved about this book aside from the eye-catching plot, is how these 16 heirs were fleshed out vividly and had developed by the end of the book.
I was satisfied that we readers still get to see these 16 heirs grow and age.
I just love these endings.Overall, this book was filled with humor and witty dialogues.
I loved how I pined for the right character!
This was also my absolute favorite book from when I read it as a third grader until I was in middle school and discovered fantasy fiction.
The Westing Game begins with sixteen seemingly random individuals invited to live in a beautiful building called Sunset Towers.
The individuals are then invited to the reading of the will of the wealthy Samuel Westing, recently found dead.
But rather than a standard will reading, the sixteen individuals are divided into pairs and given envelopes filled with random words from which they must decipher who the murderer of Samuel Westing is.
One of the best Newbery books I've read. The characters are super distinctive and Raskin is very witty. An example:Turtle forgot the rules of the court and hurried to her mother."Who did you see, Mom? Who? Who?"(Terrified by the who's, Madame Hoo slipped away.)(view spoiler)[Madame Hoo had stolen the other witnesses's valuables to save money for a return trip to China. (hide spoiler)]5/5 stars.
Fun murder mystery. I suppose that it was written for middle graders, but this adult still enjoyed the whodunnit.Sixteen heirs to a fortune must puzzle out the benefactor's murderer to win the millions. Reminded me of Agatha Christie in a way. Lots of eccentric characters and all of them suspecting of each other.More clever than funny with a strong ending. The ending is what really pushed it past 'just okay' for me. I could see this being brilliant for an early reader and will happily collect a copy for my own growing kids.
I "solved" the mystery twice and was still wrong both times.
But in the end all the twists and turns made perfect sense, and I was left wondering how I hadn’t seen it all before.
Also, this book has a grand total of sixteen point of view characters!
I enjoyed the clever clues, the even greater mystery lurking in the shadows, and the quirky cast of characters.
And I really liked the end.
All quotations were either from the Bible or Shakespeare.Altogether, I very much enjoyed my jaunt into this quirky, brilliant book!
Wow . . . this is . . . brilliant! Such a fun book, and exceptionally written! I think it is meant more for middle grade ages, but all ages will love it! Witty,, mysterious, and yet heartwarming too, this is a book that will quickly become a favorite!
These 16 heirs are all brought together under one roof as tenants of Sunset Towers which overlooks the mansion of the deceased millionaire.Sharp, clever, witty and fun, this book is an absolute treat for people who love to read a good puzzle-mystery, complete with twists, multiple disguises/ aliases and illusions to keep one guessing till the end.
It is an ingenious piece of writing which consists of a lot of puzzle solving, bombs going off, some stealing, some serious shin-kicking by the 13 year old Turtle Wexler who is a child prodigy AND the most eccentric will one will ever come across (but one can always expect an eccentric millionaire to come up with an equally eccentric will)!I am so glad I picked this book to read from the library (it was a complete random pick)!
I first read this in grade eight and thought it was the smartest book ever. It was ingenious and full of twists and plots and I adored the main character Turtle. It's one of those books where everything just connects in the end, all loose strings are tied up, and upon closing the back cover, it leaves the reader with a feeling of satisfaction. It's an amazing book, even after all these years.
Duh. 100 stars. The best. Read it whenever I remember to.
The Westing Game is about 16 heirs competeing for Sam's Westing's inheritance.
This book is a clever mystery full of excitement, danger.
You too may strike it rich, who dares to play...The Westing Game.
It is just like a game as Sam Westing tries to determine his heir, and who is not worthy to be in the game any longer.
Samuel Westing has invited 16 heirs to play in his game.
Sam Westing may be dead but that is not stopping him from playing his last game.
I first picked up this book in high school, if I remember correctly, from the high school’s library.
I fell in love almost immediately, and when I recently saw a copy at Half-Price Books I picked it up so that I could own it.
It’s a murder mystery, a puzzle, and a treasure hunt, all in one, centered around the unique cast of characters that inhabit Sunset Towers apartments.
The reader essentially becomes a participant in the mystery as we follow each character.
A re-read. Still as much of a gem as I thought when I was in fourth grade, and there aren't many books I can say that about. The last scenes get me every time.
Honestly, on re-reading this, I realize that it’s basically Saw for the elementary school set: rich eccentric dude brings a group of strangers together and proceeds to psychologically torture them by a) teasing them with the chance to win an outrageous fortune and b) convincing them that someone in their group is a murderer.
Watching all of these people go through what was basically an elaborate parlor game to appease the whims of a rich dead asshole wasn’t very fun, at all, and it was a genuine disappointment for me when at the end (view spoiler)[it turns out that not only was Westing alive the entire time, none of the characters ever take him to task for how thoroughly he disrupted their lives for his own amusement (hide spoiler)].
iconic book.
This may be one of the books I've reread most in my life.
I love this book so much.
I don't even know what to say about this book other than it's one of my favorites ever.
It's a mystery with all the clues lined up, but you won't get the solution.
Every time I read this, I notice a new clue.This book also succeeds because of its well-rounded characters.
Turtle, Angela, Flora, JJ, and Ted are all well-developed, interesting characters.
Frankly, all the characters are interesting and memorable, even with so many.
CLAP.CLAP.CLAP.Well done, Ellen Raskin.
Quite the clever little yarn you've spun.
I can see little middle-school-Lisa reading this book and taking notes and trying to win the prize.
Alas, I didn't even know this book existed then.
But reading The Undertaker's Gone Bananas gave me the hankering for more mysteries involving kids finding corpses and getting in deep with the grown-up business of murder and finger-pointing.
I'll keep it short.
The Westing Game is a smart, impressive little mystery that will keep you on your toes.
I think all my Goodreads gals would appreciate this one.
HOW HAVE I NOT READ THIS BEFORE? So clever, so fun, amazing ending. Love.
A clever, engrossing and funny mystery and a good introduction to the genre for young readers.
I've said it before and I'll say it again, I don't enjoy rereading books, no matter if I thought they were great.
There's a new plot twist at every turn that keeps you guessing throughout the entire book, but the biggest one of all is at the very end, and let me tell you, WOW was I not expecting it...
With the way the author constructed and presented the book, nothing is predictable, and she for sure keeps you on your toes.
My very favorite character through it all was Tabitha, or "Turtle." I cannot stress enough how much you need to read this book.
