https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1637820.New_Hampshire
The first being those "story-poems" that were so prominent in his earlier volumes, and the second being poems whose focus is on things such as nature, the seasons, weather – that whole sort of subject matter that many, including me, always have associated with Frost.
The mind – is not the heart.I may yet live, as I know others live,To wish in vain to let go with the mind –Of cares, at night, to sleep; but nothing tells meThat I need learn to let go with the heart.This poem is followed by "Two Witches", with the "chapters": I.
Dust of Snowby: Robert Frost The way a crowShook down on meThe dust of snowFrom a hemlock treeHas given my heartA change of moodAnd saved some partOf a day I had rued.
Frost uses rural images and tales to evoke a steady perseverance - neither prude nor puke - in the face of finitude, indifference, and uncertainty.
In 1923 Robert Frost published his Selected Poems in the spring followed by this collection in November.
I think we can see a hint of Dante again in this poem with "the dark woods", and there is also the symbolism of winter coming, of snow falling, a beautiful imagery that a time will descend upon us where our lives are dull, tragic, painful or lonely.
By the end of the poem the transition from death to life is complete when one contrasts the white of "the gathered snow" at night to the living white of the birch tree and hope in family life symbolized by "a clump of houses" and the spiritual life of the church."Nothing will be left of white but here a birch,And there a clump of houses with a church."
I thought that this poem was a good illistration of even the strongest things can be broken down and nothing lasts forever. The poem talks about nature and how fragile it actually is. Plus it was very short and I needed a book/poem to read real quick.
New Hampshire confirms my sense of Frost as a kind of short story writer in verse; see the title poem, "The Census-Taker," "A Fountain, A Bottle, A Donkey's Ear, and Some Books" (a really nice poem I never remember having read before), and "The Witch of Coos."The poem that did the most to crystalize my sense of what makes Frost great, however, is "For Once, Then, Something," which brings the Jungian resonances of his work into sharp relief.
For once, then, something.If that's the kind of moment that interests you, you can follow it through "Two Looking at Two", "A Brook in the City," and "The Onset" (as well as "Stopping by Woods").Frost's definitely a five star poet, but I'm still looking for his five star volume.
I had to find this book this spring after looking up one of my favorite Frost poems, "Nothing Gold Can Stay." New Hampshire has several of his well known poems, but is incredibly difficult to find.
As far as I can tell it may have been reissued once, but no one has that in stock.
This edition is from the first set of printings.
Mine is the sixth printing, done in 1928.
Fortunately I located one copy on biblio.com for the incredibly reasonable price of $9.
I've been enjoying it so far.
This 1923 Robert Frost book contains some five star poems such as Fire and Ice, Nothing Gold Can Stay, Dust of Snow, and, one of his most popular poems, Stopping by Woods on A Snowy Evening. Also in this collection is A Star in a Stone-Boat, a poem that stone wall lovers may wish to bookmark. The remaining works may alternately mystify, disappoint, or please, depending upon individual characteristics of each reader. In sum, it seems quite safe to say that this volume was significant in enriching the American and New England literary heritage.
Personally, I HATE POETRY! In this poem, I felt that Robert Frost was speaking of innocence when addressing the highly coveted and fleeting state of "gold". Nothing new stays new, over time and through experience they lose value. In today's society it is extremely hard to retain innocence. Robert Frost through effective use of metaphors describes the loss of innocence in a very unique and captivating way.
This collection is where Frost starts to write in a very tight fashion. He used large conversation poems almost exclusively before this point and the difference in conveying meaning and feeling in this collection is immense.Frost's ability to grow and an author shows why he is one of the greatest poets the US has ever produced.
i love the poem Fire and Ice i got it from the front of 'new moon' and thought it fascinating.
Good gracious, this collection is such a slog to get through, but it also has the highest concentration of the best Frost poems, so it's in the really boring tug of war with itself over how terrible it wants to be. There's nothing to be found here that isn't anthologized endlessly.
Maple was by far my favorite poem in this collection. I loved the search for identity. I love Frost and his use of place in his poetry.
This collection contains one of my favorite frost poems, "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening."
A beautiful poem
These poems are some of Frost's finest. I love them.
Hey! I read a poem that wasn't for English class. This is my favorite poem.
