https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25590.The_Grand_Alliance
Until June ’41 the Soviet Union was an indirect ally of Nazi Germany providing Hitler’s armies with vast quantities of raw materials.But prior to the German invasion of the Soviet Union Britain was still on her own.
But of great consequence was that intervention in Greece and Yugoslavia forced Hitler to delay by over a month his attack on the Soviet Union.
This became of significance later that year when Nazi troops floundered in the early Soviet winter in front of Moscow.Page 206 (my volume)I have now set forth in narrative the outstanding facts of our adventure in Greece.
So, by default, Britain was allied with the Soviet Union, whom it had just previously considered to be the enemy.
I presume that this is one of the things Orwell is referring to in 1984, when the alliances suddenly switch over, and people are told that the country which only yesterday they were at war with has always been their friend.Churchill was a brilliant politician, and he was willing to do a great deal to defeat Hitler.
This was not emphasized after the war, when alliances switched a second time, and the Soviet Union was the new enemy.
Even the memorandums that Churchill wrote to his staff throughout the war are perfect templates for anyone writing memos in today's business climate...short, crisp, yet worthy.
His descriptions of all the world players he met (Harry Hopkins was a "crumbling lighthouse") are such that after you read them, you go back with a did-he-really-write-what-I-think-he-wrote double take."They said it was only a ground shark; but I was not wholly reassured.
It is as bad to be eaten by a ground shark as by any other."Using his own words, I guess Mr. Churchill was "builded rightly".Book Season = Winter (hard to complain about snow compared to the Blitz)
Hitler's immediate response was to direct his key henchmen, Goering, Keitel, Jodl and Ribbentrop to "make all preparations to destroy Yugoslavia militarily and as a national unit.""War is mainly a catalogue of blunders, but it may be doubted whether any mistake in history has equaled that of which Stalin and the Communist chiefs were guilty when they cast away all possibilities in the Balkans and supinely awaited, or were incapable of realising, the fearful onslaught which impended upon Russia."- Churchill writing about Stalin's failure to predict and prepare for the invasion of Russia.
Of course, things do turn around as the year progresses, particularly when Germany invades the USSR (some rather biting comments about Stalin's attitude toward the British after leaving them high and dry during the invasion of Poland) and then at the end of the year Japan attacks Pearl Harbor, bringing the US into the war (and sending Churchill to Washington, to finally meet the man he has collaborated with so long).The book is rather dry, in accord with the personality of its author, but will be fascinating to some, and certainly useful to others, depending on the level of involvement you have with World War II history.
Because of his immense output, Winston Churchill may be described as an old-fashioned writer.
I was told, although I have never been able to verify it, that Churchill employed one of the largest vocabularies of any individual writing in English.
It is ironic to think that, although the use of English is becoming ever more widespread, it is not generally being put to anything like the kind of use a man like Churchill made of it."The Grand Alliance" takes us to the point in the Second World War when the Americans finally declared their intentions.
The things I found most interesting in this book were the Battle of Britain and what happened with Russia and Germany.I knew Winston Churchill had a reputation for good insults, but he had some very blunt things to say about how Stalin managed things before the Germans invaded.
They instructed communist groups in Great Britain and America to agitate against the war and ignored all intelligence from Allied sources saying the Germans were going to attack them.
But I think it is a credit to Churchill that he never sent a message back saying, "Where were you when we were being bombed and all our shipping attacked and we were fighting the Germans alone?
The Grand Alliance is the third book in Winston Churchill's six volumes on the second World War, and the bulk of it is spent detailing the contours of a chess match between Great Britain, Italy, Russia, and Germany.
Neither Stalin nor Churchill come across as anything more than awkward partners who need each other to annihilate a common threat.The chess match with more relatively minor countries like Greece, Cyprus, Albania, Hungary, Yugoslavia (the Balkans' geographical placement, in proximity to Russian as well as German/Italian interests, made control of them vital to numerous players) and Turkey are replayed by publishing of Churchill's correspondence with his generals in the field.
The Mediterranean, the Desert, the Middle East were still in peril, but in the closing days of November on land and sea and in the air we felt thankful with the way the war had gone so far." Within a couple of months this sense of well being was to be severely tested even with the Grand Alliance in place.Once the US declared war on the Axis, Churchill negotiated a face to face planning session with FDR in the US.
Prime Minister Churchill must have felt the weight of the world on his shoulders as desperate measures were enacted by his government and armed forces to keep the nation from strangling under siege in the ocean by submarines; keep much-needed army divisions from the war front in order to defend the homeland against the ever-present threat of cross-channel invasion; attempt to bring Yugoslavia, Greece and Turkey into the allied camp; and find a way to stretch the Royal Navy's presence to fight against German submarine and surface raiders in the North Atlantic, and keep a lifeline open to the British forces in Egypt while patrolling the Mediterranean.
There is so much happening this volume -- the invasion of Russia, the advance of the Japanese war machine in the Pacific, and of course the attack on Pearl Harbor that brings the United States fully into the war.
Roosevelt seems almost giddy to support the Soviets and occasionally "sides" with them instead of the British when it comes to allocation of resources and such.
(There is also a propaganda campaign in the United States at this time to soften "Uncle Joe" for the American public).
The story moves from Britain surviving Germany's onslaught in "Their Finest Hour" to a more macro view of the war.
In between, there is significant detail on the war front in the Mediterranean, specifically the fall of Greece and the front in North Africa.
At these macro levels, Churchill offers significant insight, but often enough he presents details (particularly on shipping of tonnage) that doesn't really add much to history.
The review of the fighting in the Mediterranean continued Churchill's fervor from the last book and felt personal, but the diplomatic details were more dry and simple.
It is Churchill's largely personal history of WWII continuing through 1941, but such was his prodigious contribution that the history is still near complete.
Never was it more true, 'for such a time as this' that a man was more adequately prepared.
This chronicles the struggles against inefficiency and bureaucracy, the inertia of the military system and commanders lacking vision or decisiveness, cynicism regarding the Soviets, as well as the assumption that Japan would cave against American pressure albeit with a hint of suspicion that goading Japan into war was Roosevelt's strategy to lever USA into active status in the war against Germany.
I just finished reading Winston Churchill's The Grand Alliance!
This is volume 3 of Churchill's 6 volume set covering World War 2.
It is a great book, insightful, witty and humorous at times as only Churchill can be.
I recommend this to my teacher friends who teach A.P. history for many primary letters are included from the powers that be during the time of the second world war.
I also recommend it to anyone who likes history.
I also learned how much the Australians and New Zealanders, not to mention the Indians did to assist the British in the war effort.
Another great book in Churchill's collection about World War II. Churchill puts great detail on all of these books. I found particularly interesting his analysis of the military and political situation with regards to Japan entry into the war, and the United States position regarding Japan and the Pacific theater of operations. This comes rather late in the book but well worth the wait.These books should be mandatory reading in schools and for anyone studying history.
Captivating HistoryI found this an absolutely riveting and extraordinary read. Churchill succeeds in giving an almost daily account of the thoughts and action of one of our greatest leaders as he faced the very real threat of the destruction of his country. What a leader, what a writer.
Such an interesting story. I am starting to be more aware of when Churchill wrote this and how much he leaves out of the WWII story. No mention of SOE or other covert intelligence services. He makes a great case and relationship with US but also has to manage Stalin.
Incredibly moving.The man no doubt had one of the great minds of the 20th century. His grasp of details, from the smallest to the largest , and his courage and humanity in the face of unspeakable evil remains astounding.
As opposed to the first two volumes, this volume relied heavily on in-text letters and notes, which took away from the narrative at times. However, the overall text is a great recitation of Churchill's involvement in global WWII operations in 1941 and the very beginning of 1942.
I enjoyed reading this book because it's all first hand accounts of the war. I don't know how Churchill kept all the different parts organized and where he found the phenomenal energy needed to fight the Nazis alone. A truly amazing leader that we will never see the likes of again.
Winston never stops being a genius.
From 1939 until the Germans turned their sights on Russia in 1942, England was the sole force providing continual harassment to Hitler’s swelling dominion.
In this, Churchill knew that the war was won.You will never read a war history quite like Churchill’s retelling of these six, almost seven, long years of struggle.
Once the US became an active participant, hardly a defeat was handed to the Allied forces in the west, but this was due to the exceedingly important battle plan developed for years by Great Britain.My grandfather served in North Africa – where the majority of the action of this book takes place.
Read along: The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany for the German perstpective and An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 for the American perspective close to 60 years after.Side note: Churchill's history of the Second World War was originally published in six volumes:1.
Triumph and Tragedy Churchill then condensed these into four volumes, which have since been released as one, rather hefty, publication.
Alone: The Second World War (Condensed) Series, Book 23.
But Churchill doesn't do more than sketch out a vague outline of an explanation.Secondly, the book is a series of losses on the English side, punctuated by the entry into the war of Russia and the United States.
However, Russia's entry into the war is not at all positive, foreboding as are their actions, petulant as are their demands and complaints, and shady as are the circumstances they were in before Hitler actually turned and attacked them.
As in the previous two books, Churchill does a wonderful job of making history come alive.
So Churchill describes all the actions to try to thwart the Axis powers intentions in the Middle East.
By the end of the 1941, the situation in the Middle East is a draw.A fortuitous development for Britain, Germany's invasion of Russia in the summer of 1941, is described in some detail.
Churchill does a good job of informing how and why this came about and the implications for the war for Britain's side as they gain a new ally, the Russian Bear.
Nevertheless, 1941 also marked the welcome support of two new and powerful alliances: first in May a large Nazi attack on the Soviet Union made the latter a rather unlikely ally, and in December Japan's surprise attack finally forced the United States into war (although, admittedly, they had come into action earlier, protecting British convoys, and boycotting Japan).Churchill's account is centered on those two events, which improved Britain's chances not only of survival but of final victory enormously.
Churchill is particularly frank on his difficult relationship with Stalin, his admiration for Rommel, and his ultimate joy that the United States were there to help him.
I was in my bath at the time but I got out to sign the document." Then there is Winston's "zip" suit: "We had arranged to meet for dinner.
Winston (after three books I feel we are on first name terms now) more than once nearly came to a sticky end, including the time he discovered that the petrol heater on board the bomber he was flying in was warming things up just a little too much.
Great passage by Churchill on his first meeting with Roosevelt in Newfoundland, August 1941.
611 Churchill's correspondence and declaration of war with Japan after Pearl Harbor: Some people did not like this ceremonial style.
673 Churchill has an interesting perspective on the American vs the British mind.After several vague references to the differences between British/American and Russian political and religious philosophies and mentioning how he and Roosevelt attended church together on a number of occasions, at the beginning of chapter 16 (pg.
682), Churchill has this interesting comment.
Maintains the same high standards of the first two volumes with CHurchill's cosy and simple style keeping things very engaging.
As the book travels through the disasters of Greece and Crete and then the inconclusive fighting in Egypt what becomes the real story is the communication between commanders and leaders in war.
Churchill recounts in painstaking detail the organization and heirarchy of decision making.
Make no mistake, his simple decisions and conclusions distill from myriad committees and pull in opinions from leaders around the globe.
A businessperson would benefit from reading this book as uch as a history buff.
Additionally, I read the original 4 Volume set, not the later 6 volume set that was broken into two additional volumes in the late 1980s.
Still, it this later 6 volume set is the same set from the original.
This was and is the most important chronological work of the Second World War in Europe and to a lesser degree within the Pacific.
I read this third Volume again when I ran through the original 4 sets in order.
I am glad I did, I am proud to have read this work by the most important Political Leader of the 20th Century.
