https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10644188-spazieren-in-berlin
I love the idea of spending my days absorbing a city’s idiosyncrasies and its vibe and energy, then putting pen to paper to share my bon mots.Alas, there seem to be no vacancies for a flâneur, so I live vicariously through books such as these.”The flâneur reads the street, and human faces, displays, window dressings, café terraces, trains, cars and trees become letters that yield the words, sentences, and pages of a book that is always new.”First published in 1929, this is part travelogue, part history lesson, part social science study.
“Walking In Berlin” has a lovely, gentle, meandering writing style.
Franz Hessel certainly knew his stuff, and we’re given a lot of fascinating information about the areas and buildings that he’s taking us to.
You must walk with Herr Hessel, as he strolls up and down Berlin’s districts.

I felt this was an intended device, to anchor it in the 1920s, although there were slang turns of phrase such as “the hideous staircase was gotten rid of” which left me questioning some of the quality of the translation.Overall an interesting read for someone who is reasonably familiar with the city and who would like to get a sense of the history, manners and feel of Berlin of the 1920s and how much of that era still echoes today.
Berlin is on my list of cities to visit, so I thought, why not try this book?
Even though there are plenty of footnotes throughout the book, perhaps I would have understood some of the references better if I had already been to Berlin.
I would surely like to read this again after visiting.
Overall, this is a nice little book that captures a piece of history in Berlin.
It would be best enjoyed by Berliners or those who have been to the city before.
In my case, it makes me want to visit Berlin even more.
The is an essential guide for anyone interested in the city of Berlin and its history. Hessel is a great guide. His walks across the city combine a bit of everything. More to the point the fact that it was written in 1929 does not matter, since his accounts have a contemporary feel, and despite all the turmoil and upset that Berlin has endured, once cannot help but feel it is the same city described by Hessel all those years ago.
Sitios que significaron algo pero también cuál era aquel significado.
Así pues, estos Paseos por Berlín son también la historia de una ciudad devastada.Pero el porvenir es largo, decía Louis Althusser, y mientras este llegaba, Franz Hessel paseaba por ese Berlín gris, no por triste, sino porque Berlín siempre fue una ciudad en ese color.
No todo puede estar, pero hay que intentarlo, porque el peatón de Berlín debe hacer que las cosas sean indestructibles.
Y esa es la verdadera obra del flâneur que escribe, ese ser capaz de construir ciudades de letras, como esas otras ciudades recortables y montables de nuestra infancia.Franz Hessel es esa torre Eiffel de Guillaume Apollinaire que pastoreaba un mundo antiguo.
It's just great literature.The heart of the work is "The Tour," a long Feuilleton piece that describes a day trip the author took with several tourists through Berlin's gardens, markets, arts districts, and statuary-lined streets.
The other pieces are uniformly strong, although standouts in my opinion include his description of the seedy Alexanderplatz neighborhood and his narration of what goes on inside Berlin's factories and slaughterhouses (the Germans at the time had an obsession with rationalization and efficiency and American iterations of the same, such as Henry Ford's assembly lines).Someone once quipped that Los Angeles is like your brain; you can only utilize ten percent or so.
Don't be misled by the long read time: I loved this book. It is not one to be rushed, but instead visited from time to time and savoured whenever a little Berlin magic is needed.
I was expecting something more experimental or an odd point of view with regards to Franz Hessel's "Walking in Berlin." The narration is very straight forward and reads like a travel guide to a city.
Hessel gives all the senses in his writing of what I have to imagine is his favorite city.
The irony is that we now read this book due to the city's history, and what happens afterward.
Not one of my favorite books on the subject matter of Berlin, but important for the student studying the city, or those who are curious about a first-person observation at its time.
The Observer calls it a 'love letter to the city', and the Times Literary Supplement states that it is 'not only an important record of old Berlin; it is a testimony to its enduring spirit.'Hessel takes his readers on a walk around much of Weimar-era Berlin, splitting his observations into essays relating to particular districts.
Hessel is a feisty, clever, and witty guide to Berlin; his prose is animated and sumptuous and his perceptions glamorously lyrical. For anyone who knows the geography of Berlin, this book is an especial treat.Gail Jones, Saturday AgeBeautiful … a classic observation of the German city in the late 1920s that illuminates many of the historic shadows and provides a wonderful map for modern-day wanderings. Sydney Morning Herald [A]n absolutely epic book, a walking remembrance.Walter BenjaminWalking
For anyone who knows the geography of Berlin, this book is an especial treat.Gail Jones, Saturday AgeBeautiful … a classic observation of the German city in the late 1920s that illuminates many of the historic shadows and provides a wonderful map for modern-day wanderings.
A timely ode to a good meander and [Hessel’s] home city [Berlin].
Putting it aside until back into the topic.
It is fun, at least, and even better after a half week walking around Berlin in his spirit.
It dragged down in "Rundfahrt", although there were some juicy bits, especially when he kept writing about a place after the silly guide who kept going after a cursory mention of that place.
Or else spent a lot of time on a topic (especially royalty!), while our own guide snidely cuts through it all.
Loved the paragraph on the Berliner Dom I had just climbed up and down and in and around.
Franz Hessel, der lange Zeit in Berlin lebte, brachte die in Paris verbreitete Persepktive des Flaneurs nach Berlin und liefert wunderbare Beschreibungen der Berliner Alltags in den 20er Jahren.
Echo en falta la prosa bella sin mayor intención que narrar, que contar algo por el mero hecho de contárselo al lector.
De hecho, estas rutas son tan amplias que, como si de una espiral se tratasen, llegan a abarcar las afueras de Berlín, igual de cautivadoras, si se sabe donde mirar, y Hessel lo indica, que los más fastuosos monumentos.Pero, sin obviar este aspecto visual, y creo que es la mayor cualidad de esta obra, «Paseos por Berlín» permite la libertad de no tener que optar por pretensión alguna a la hora de leerlo, ni siquiera la de descubrir el propio Berlín.
It's just great literature.The heart of the work is "The Tour," a long Feuilleton piece that describes a day trip the author took with several tourists through Berlin's gardens, markets, arts districts, and statuary-lined streets.
The other pieces are uniformly strong, although standouts in my opinion include his description of the seedy Alexanderplatz neighborhood and his narration of what goes on inside Berlin's factories and slaughterhouses (the Germans at the time had an obsession with rationalization and efficiency and American iterations of the same, such as Henry Ford's assembly lines).Someone once quipped that Los Angeles is like your brain; you can only utilize ten percent or so.
specific audience read.
dragged on now and then, but still interesting more often than not- especially when it discussed neighborhoods that exist today like Wedding and Neukolln.
http://sensemania.blogspot.com/2012/0...
