https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24915.Welcome_to_Hard_Times
For years though I have thought about picking up a copy of his first book Welcome to Hard Times.
Hard Times was badly in need of a Gary Cooper character, but unfortunately the closest they had was a man named Blue.
He was the only man who possibly could have rallied the men of the town and thrown the Man from Bodie from their midst.
Blue left with a handful of survivors is determined to rebuild the town.
Blue is more proactive, even comes up with a plan that takes down The Man From Brodie, but can do nothing to save his town from the rampaging miners.
4.5 *THE MOVIEI first learned that E.L. Doctorow had written a Western novel when I saw the film adaptation on television many years ago.I always read the movie credits (doesn’t everybody?) and back then they were much easier to read.
Although the film was released in 1967, it had to be after 1975 that I saw it, because until the publication of Ragtime that year I had never heard of Doctorow, even though I later learned that it was his fourth novel.To be honest, despite a stellar cast headed by Henry Fonda, I didn’t think much of the movie.
"I told Molly we'd be ready for the bad man, but we can never be ready.
Why does there have to be promise before destruction?"The Bad Man from Bodie is the villain in this book, but in reality he is just an embodiment for the evil that lies in men's hearts, for human nature gone terribly wrong.
And the good people either ran in fear or just sat by and did nothing.
L. Doctorow's first novel.
You can read it as a western novel about the settling of a town, or as an allegory on the battle between good and evil.
Maybe like the miners who fed this old western town's economy, I needed to dig deeper.
But I stroll on the sunnier side of the street.For me, this was an entirely plot driven novel, despite the dark message it carried.
Joseph Conrad did a better job with Heart of Darkness in conveying that kind of idea.
Lonesome Dove, while perhaps a more shallow western story, gave me characters that I felt deeply for.I just didnt feel a dustmote of attachment for any of the characters.
GR friend Diane's quote when first starting this book, "The action starts on page 1 and never lets up." The first chapter reads a little like a comedy but that is short lived beginning with chapter 2. If you like fast-paced and action filled this would be a great book to take on. If you are looking for a happy book, keep in mind the title of this novel. Doctorow lays it all out for the reader to experience. This is a book Donald Ray Pollock revealed has influenced/shaped his work as a writer.
I wanted a western in a noir style and I got it in spades.Doctorow achieved in 155 pages what others spend 600 attempting; he has written a piece of literature in a popular style as an allegory for human nature whilst at the same time analysing what happened in Europe and specifically Germany in the 1930s, all the while making it an entertaining read.
This Bad Man is the embodiment of all human evil and weakness, and in the face of such evil people have a habit of doing nothing.
Well shoot, parties over and it just had to end. I really enjoyed the simple writing style, it suited the locale and the situation. Dang, reading a good western puts a smile on my face, it has to be kind of quirky like this, I'm not a fan of the true westerns (Louis L'Amour, Zane Grey, etc). I think Hard Times compares well with The Sisters Brothers, and The Good Lord Bird as being fun offbeat westerns, the type I'm fond of.
The “man” (satan, really) is unleashed on the dry plains and lays to ruin the best efforts of man.
This is an origin story of father, mother and child struggle against the mighty force, one with a seething vengeance, one with angry devotion and mixed loved, and the protagonist Blue who holds out hope and gives his all.
The years wintering in this bleak landscape, before the town is re-built, is profoundly frightful, yet spring comes and yields its eternal hope for progress.
The town is the world, its people humanity, and the lonely Blue cannot hold the center – forever weakened by his heart’s desire for mankind’s beneficence.
It’s not a perfect comparison though, as the novel has a deeper strain of pessimism.
So, Hard Times is a one-horse town in the Dakota Territory, and as the novel opens it is visited by a violent psychopath, “The Bad Man from Bodie”, who robs and rapes the inhabitants at will.
He and his fellow townsfolk are quite successful in bringing the town back, but there is the ever-present thought that the terrifying Man from Bodie may one day return.
The story builds to an exciting climax.It’s very much an allegorical novel, but to avoid spoilers I won’t say more.A very impressive first book.
This short first novel by E. L. Doctorow takes place in a Dakota mining town called Hard Times. It is a fit name for a place in the middle of nowhere with harsh weather, hard relationships, bad men and lawlessness. One of the most interesting westerns I have ever read because of its' plot. Hard Times is filled with desperation and hopelessness. Sounds like a cookie-cutter western? It's not, but to say more would give it all away.My rating: 5 stars. This book is classic worthy.
kicks cormac mccarthy's ass
The "Bad Man from Bodie" rides into town, rapes the whores, then burns down the entire town.Blue is the default philosophizing mayor.
In penance for failing to defend his town from the Bad Man because he was not willing to kill the guy, he attempts to rebuild the town and to create a family by taking in Molly, one of the raped whores, as well as the young son of his best friend who died in the fire.
Molly reminded me of Kathy from Steinbeck's East of Eden.But evil has visited the town once and Doctorow creates some serious foreboding and foreshadowing.
Afterwards, he must take in the few remaining survivors and then attempt to rebuild the town from scratch, but Blue always fears the return of the Bad Man from Bodie and wonders if he will have the courage to fight back next time.Like the best Westerns, this story tackles hard questions about man’s ability to survive in harsh conditions, what it means to build and live in community, and the consequences of confronting weakness within oneself.
Like many authors, Doctorow seemed to be trying too hard to make a point rather than tell a story.
In a strange way, I was also reminded of J.M. Coetzee's Waiting for the Barbarians; the method of narration was quite similar.
Whereas in Coetzee's novel the threat of the barbarians is largely manufactured by the Empire, the Man from Bodie is a real menace to the town of Hard Times.
I went in expecting it to be a relatively minor piece in the career of the man who wrote Ragtime, The Book of Daniel, and Billy Bathgate, and instead discovered a work that can stand alongside any work of postwar fiction.
"Nothing is ever buried, the earth rolls in its tracks, it never goes anywhere, it never changes, only the hope changes like morning and night, only the expectations rise and set.
A story of false hope that life will get better.
A story of people not able to face the truth.
Do we bury our heads in the sand?
Or do we face the enemy regardless of the outcome?
The last third of the book felt a little too long and belabored, like a very slow death, but if you can take it, I recommend Welcome to Hard Times.
Doctorow's story set in the wild Dakota hills is of the American west is not one that tells of heroes and acts of bravery, but rather the reverse.
With buildings burnt and many of its inhabitants killed, Blue takes on the rebuilding, along with the other survivors, the key characters in the book.
Do you click your tongue at my story?"Blue is a very different character to the leads of other books about the American west at this time, an antihero.
Molly is recovering from being badly burnt in the town's destruction, but is free with insults to the Mayor in what he should have done.
I love Westerns and Doctorow, as expected, turns out a great one especially considering this was his first published book.
Blue, a hyper responsible, self appointed mayor devotes himself to keeping town records.
People naturally turn to him when a mean gunslinger hits town.
He fails them, horrible things happen, lots of scared people scatter and desert the town of Hard Times.
Blue takes the few remaining people under his wing including the badly burned and terrorized lady of the night and an orphaned boy.
A black cloud hangs over Hard Times even as it grows again and Blue scribbles about it.
Not among Doctorow's best, but it's worth a read. Hard Times is a bleak place; survival is doubtful. But the human spirit hangs in, and the settlers hang on to each other. What else is there?
Son esas las que de verdad consiguen sacarnos del sillón de orejas, del vagón del metro o de la cama para hacernos vivir vidas improbables (casi siempre imposibles) a miles de kilómetros y a muchos años o siglos de distancia."Cómo todo acabó y volvió a empezar", la opera prima de Doctorow, es una novela del Oeste, y además un ejemplo perfecto de vehículo espacio-temporal.
Todos recordamos las películas sobre los primeros pobladores de las tierras salvajes del Oeste de Estados Unidos, historias de vaqueros, indios, sheriffs, forajidos, caballos, diligencias y tantos otros iconos que forman parte de la moderna mitología de aquel país.
They had promise of economic good times, which ended up going up in dust, so to speak.So, what kind of gumption does it take to build a successful community/town/state?So, if you have a friend who likes to read westerns and is trying to figure out whether Libertarian ideals are workable, this might be a good book for him to explore as food for thought.I'm not enough of a reader that I'm ready to give a five star rating to a book that may not have quite as happy of an ending I'd like.
"Nothing is ever buried, the earth rolls over in its tracks, it never goes anywhere, it never changes, only the hope changes like morning and night, only the expectations rise and set.
Why does there have to be a promise before destruction?"This simple novel, set in the Dakota flats well before statehood, is written simply and directly and somehow contains a few sharp insights and phrases to be found echoing through all of Tragedy.
To be sure, these thoughts are not original.
There is no originality to the tragic.
I never read a western quite like this.
Well read and disturbing it is quite the book.
It is too simple to call the hero in "Welcome to Hard Times" a coward.
At times he seems like a principled pacifist, but his ideals and actions do no one he knows any good.
I liked the way Doctorow explored what happens when the helpless are prayed upon by pure irrational evil.
It is not a pretty sight.
The author's most famous book is "The March" and it has made its way on my to be read list.
I don't know what I feel. This book was too touching to be appealing. It touched me where it hurt. It touched some of my deepest, wildest fears. It was too terrible to be a favorite. Yet it definitely was a powerful novel. It was almost like the devil himself had bestowed his powers upon this novel. Unsettling is the best adjective I can summon for describing it. And it was just too much for a first novel.
OK - we read this a book club selection.I have mixed feelings about it - it is well written: I think the choice and use of language is very good.it is - evocative?
Personally, I prefer the ones that have least ONE redeeming, admirable (even if flawed) character.I think this is the kind of book you'd like if you enjoyed Hamlet, where the main character dithers through the entire story, does all the wrong things at the wrong times (or the right things at the wrong times) and ends up getting everybody killed in the end, without ever figuring out why his own character made it inevitable.I have never liked Hamlet much.
Ο αφηγητής με το όνομα Blue, που όλοι τον αποκαλούν δήμαρχο, θα αποφασίσει πεισματικά να χτίσει την πόλη απο την αρχή και να την ονομάσει Hard Times.Το ντεμπούτο του Doctorow ειναι ενα αντί-γουέστερν γραμμένο σε μια εποχή που το είδος γνώριζε την εμπορική του κορυφή.
Το Welcome to Hard Times ειναι απολαυστικό αν κ δυσκολεύεσαι στην αρχή με τα αγγλικά αφού όλοι οι υπόλοιποι κάτοικοι της πόλης ειναι ή μετανάστες ή άνθρωποι που δεν ξέρουν να μιλούν και να γράφουν.
The Bad Man from Bodie gets bored and leaves, and as the action slows to nearly nothing, the novel takes a turn for the better.Welcome to Hard Times is only superficially a Western.
Underneath, though, the novel is a stirring meditation on cowardice, gender roles, the psychological importance of safety and justice, revenge, and the destructive power of hatred and chronic self-inflicted victimization.After the Bad Man departs, the first-person protagonist, Blue, a late middle-aged shopkeeper, attempts to return to some sense of domestic order by taking the ravaged prostitute Molly and the orphaned adolescent Jimmy under his care.
The only people who elect to stay in the smoldering ashes are Blue; a vengeful prostitute named Molly, brutalized and scarred by the Bad Man; a boy named Jimmy, orphaned in the same rampage; and John Bear, an Indian who lived on the fringes of the town when it existed and who remains there now that it doesn't.
The town throws huge parties, complete with banjos and mouth organs, and Blue resumes his sort-of-mayorly duties.As you might expect of a Western that's about running away in the hopes of never having to fight another day, "Welcome to Hard Times" is not very exciting, but it's not altogether uninteresting.
By dumb luck, willfully blind optimism, and a persuasive way with words, Blue and the remaining survivors (a brutally victimized and understandably spiteful barmaid, an orphaned teenager, and a deaf-and-dumb Indian doctor) and a few enterprising (however unlucky) souls who happen upon the place struggle to rebuild it into a proper town, better than before, fit to show up on a map.
Approaching 50 years old, Blue has a "grass-isn't-greener-anywhere-ever" outlook but he pursues the project of his Little Town on the Prairie with a maddening sticktoitiveness.
I always know it can't end well, and maybe it should worry me how much I relate to Blue and his relentless (however futile and tragic) optimism, but I always love going back to Hard Times.
The story also has many subplots for a book that is only 224 pages or 6 hours audio.Doctorow has the traditional characters of a typical western, a bullying evil villain, the noble prostitute and the unwilling hero.
But the author provides the reader with a big twist in that the hero fails to act.
I was reminded of one of my favorite movies “High Noon” but in Doctorow’s story there is no Gary Cooper or John Wayne to do the job.The book provides an important lesson.
It is easy to read for a story with such an important topic.
I happened upon this novel in a Florida bookstore while on vacation in 1978.
"I can put this down," I told myself proudly, and I walked out of the store.Then I spent the rest of that vacation worrying about it!
I also made a point of reading all Doctorow's other novels, and driving from my home in Virginia up to DC to hear him speak at the National Press Club.This is a very gritty Western, in the super-realism mode.
I shared it with my father, who was a big fan of more popular Westerns, and he found it a bit too strong for his taste.
