https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116052.Under_Gemini
This is my favorite of hers. The thing she does best is paint word pictures. She has a gift for descriptive language. You can 'see' the places she talks about. I love her English settings as well.
This is the second Rosamunde Pilcher book I have read, and the second where the male love interest slaps the female protagonist.
I understand it's a product of its time, but I just find it disturbing, especially since it seemed unnecessary and contrary to his character.Aside from that it was lovely.
Not the sort of plot that will have you up all night telling yourself 'just one more chapter,' but definitely a nice book to curl up with after a bad day.
I would have given it 4 stars without the slap, which honestly could easily be edited out.
I think if you look up 'comfort read' in the dictionary, it will tell you 'see Rosemunde Pilcher.' It would in my own personal dictionary, anyway.
E. Stevenson novel?' but no, it was Pilcher, the next best thing to Stevenson.Flora falls in with the madcap plans of her suddenly-discovered twin and agrees to take her place to comfort a dying woman.
It becomes even more untenable when she realizes that her twin is a manipulative, selfish person who thinks only of herself.Eventually inhabiting Rose's skin becomes so difficult for Flora that she wants out, but doesn't know how to extricate herself without doing more damage than she has already done.
After a stressful week, I set aside my heavier reading to escape into this Rosamund Pilcher romance about Flora, a twin who agrees to impersonate her sister as a favour, spending a week with a family who lives in the Scottish Highlands. It all goes terribly wrong, of course, and then it all comes wonderfully right.
Love Rosamunde Pilcher's "cosy" Cornwall/countryside stories of romance, but that's two books in a row where the romantic hero slaps the heroine and no one thinks it's weird. It's weird! Don't fall in love with that guy!
This novel was my choice for "book bought at a library sale or thrift store" for the summer reading challenge.One of her earlier and shorter books, Under Gemini is nowhere close to Pilcher's great novels.
I'm still glad I read this, because even so-so Rosamunde Pilcher writing has moments of beauty, love, and sentimentality.
This one is old enough that the elderly woman at the center of the family is a WWI/Great War survivor.
Readers can see the bones of what would later influence September, one of her big, blockbuster books with a better (and more believable) plot.
Another good oneAnother comforting and old fashioned story. I love her writing and this was another fun read to get lost in.
But once in Scotland, Flora begins to realise Rose may not have been the innocent girl she thought she was…Once you accept the incredible coincidence of two twin sisters separated at birth accidentally bumping into each other at a London restaurant (which only took me about a second – it’s not impossible, just unlikely), you can look forward to a touching story of old secrets, new lies and of course love.
Rosamunde Pilcher es mi escritora favorita en lo que a "novela rosa" o "romántica" se refiere, porque sus novelas generalmente aportan mucho más que eso.
Pero "Bajo el signo de Géminis" parece una novela inacabada, con personajes artificiales y relaciones forzadas, y una acción apresurada innecesariamente.
Una lástima, porque las otras tres novelas que leí de ella me aportaron mucho más.Su prosa es preciosa, y las descripciones de los campos escoceces son un placer, como siempre ocurre en sus libros.
Incluso yo, una estudiante de ciudad que jamás ha tocado una maceta, me maravillo ante el estilo de vida idílico de los personajes de Pilcher.
I don't think Rosamund Pilcher has ever written a bad book - they are all very readable.Back Cover Blurb:Flora and Rose are identical twins who do not know of each other's existence.
Rose has been raised by her frivolous mother with the glossy international jet set.
Flora has spent her childhood in the beauty and quiet of her father's Cornish cottage.
And then, by chance, they meet.The encounter seems heaven-sent to the shameless Rose, who longs to be free of a man she no longer desires.
In taking Rose's place, Flora's uneventful life is changed forever.
Her small novels are all very readable and I believe were published by St Martins to grab some of the Mills & Boon market.
This one is I think the best of these and it would make a very enjoyable film if the original setting of the 1970s was kept.Here's a perfect example why I love Pilcher's writing:"At once the small curled-up ball of fur at the end of Tuppy's bed resolved itself into an elderly Yorkshire terrier, rearing up from the eiderdown like a cobra and growling ferociously with a great show of teeth sadly depleted by age."A delight!

One of her best. MyI thoroughly enjoyed this book even though it was somewhat predictable - because her writing and descriptions were so enjoyable that they drew me into the lives of these people. She is a writer like no other when it comes to inviting the reader into the story, to be part of it. Reading her books is like a vacation, getting away and having an adventure, without leaving home.
Under Gemini is my favorite novel by Rosamunde Pilcher. I love the scene when Flora and Rose meet each other in the London restaurant. Rosamunde writes such lovely, heart-warming stories. Her characters are well-developed and likeable and she interweaves wonderful description that pulls you right into her characters' world. I'd love to live in one of Rosamunde's Scottish villages.
Oh, this was one of my favourites of Ms. Pilcher's thinner novels. A woman is persuaded by her twin sister (that she didn't know she had) to impersonate her at her sister's finance's home in Scotland. She is very reluctant to go, and her twin doesn't care much for the boyfriend. She meets her "fiance's" family and just loves them and the house. But how to tell everyone who she really is?
Flora and Rose are identical twins who have never met. Rose has been raised by a frivilous mother to be part of the international jet set and Flora has spent her childhood with her father in a quiet cottage. Then, one day, the twins meet. I loved this book and give it an A!
One day, they accidentaly meet and one thing leads to another and Flora finds herself "engaged" to Anthony and travelling all the way to Scotland to meet his family, posing as Rose.Rosamunde Pilcher is one of my favourite authors, as she manages to deliver human and heartfelt stories, narrating them in a simple way that makes you feel warm inside.
Whereas, Flora and Hugh are such an amazing couple, I was secretly rooting for them all along and I was extremely happy to find out that they eventually admitted their feelings to each other!All in all, "Under Gemini" is a book that I know I'll be coming back to, as I really liked the story and the characters.
Flora Waring has returned to London after spending the previous year with her father and new step-mother in Cornwall.
She is sitting in a restaurant that evening when a woman walks in who could be her identical twin.
It turns out that they are twins, although each had believed they were an only child.
Rose invites Flora back to the apartment where she’s staying and they spend much of the night talking and getting to know each other.
He convinces Flora to go with him impersonating Rose for the weekend.

I liked the concept of running into someone who looks just like you and then finding out you had a twin. But the story got a bit sappy as it went along. It would have been more interesting to have more dialogue between the two sisters and to see if they could ever really be close in spite of their many differences. I do enjoy Rosamund Pilcher's books though. It always makes me want to live in the places she describes.
I did really enjoy this book, it was a love story that moved along at pace. However I do admit to being shocked by the gender roles from a book written in 1976 - during my lifetime - when all a nice girl wanted to do was to fall in love, get married, have children and do the housework. How things have changed! I can now see why my Mother in law disapproves of me so much...
Rosamunde Pilcher books are like comfort food to me. The characters are so well drawn that you could know them. It could be argued that not a lot happens in the book but they are a study of people and regular life.
It's an unusual twist about twins.
Predictable but still good.
Tää oli kans näitä kirjoja mitä suorastaan ahmii. Hyvä kun pääsin edes junasta ulos kun tätä kirjaa luin sielläkin :) Tykkäsin tosi paljon. Ja suosittelen mitä lämpimimmin.
I had trouble believing in the characters. The meeting of the two sisters was so unlikely ... I mean, "Seriously?" From that moment on, the storyline became weaker. However, I got my happy ending.
Loved it!
Not one of my favorites but enjoyed the read. Love this author!
Completely predictable and unrealistic, but still a good read for lazy bedtime.
Updating Goodreads. I read all of Rosamunde Pilcher's books years ago, and loved every one!
