https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143475.The_Diamond_as_Big_as_the_Ritz_and_Other_Stories
John’s father had held the amateur golf championship through many a heated contest; Mrs. Unger was known “from hot-box to hot-bed,” as the local phrase went, for her political addresses; and young John T.
Any tale beginning like this can’t fail.“Everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness.” It is probably the most known quote of F.
Scott Fitzgerald.Youth and riches are two cherished treasures.
And if one can open doors to riches any time, one’s youth never can be revisited…“How pleasant then to be insane!”“So I’m told,” said John gloomily.
People always talk about Fitzgerald as a writer that defined the Jazz Age and as much as I’m interested in this particular time period, for me that is not that important.
I suppose that what draws me to his writing the most is the way he creates his characters, somehow managing to capture their very essence.This edition consists of five short stories (the first one is more a novella than a short story but we’ll discuss that later): The Diamond As Big As The Ritz, Bernice Bobs Her Hair, The Ice Palace, May Day and The Bowl.
Come on, the little demon would whisper to you as well if you ever happened to found the diamond the size of a mountain.Take a look as this, doesn't it sound like a fairytale: " Afterwards John remembered that first night as a daze of many colours, of quick sensory impressions, of music soft as a voice in love, and of beauty of things, lights and shadows, and motions and faces.
The protagonist of this story is Bernice as the title would suggest, a young thing that bobs her hair in an effort to become popular."As Bernice busied herself with tooth-brush and paste this night she wondered for the hundredth time why she never had any attention when she was away from home.
Afinal é uma colectânea e tal oferece-nos a vantagem de podermos ler um conto hoje e iniciar a leitura de outro na semana que se segue sem perder o fio à meada, o que o torna realmente agradável.As histórias são muito boas.
Felizmente, e para meu alívio, ainda tenho muito que ler dele até chegar a esse ponto, por isso reservo os dramas para mais tarde.Diria que os meus contos preferidos foram O 1º de Maio, Um Diamante do Tamanho do Ritz e Os Ventos da Felicidade.
É fantástico apercebermo-nos da intencionalidade com que o autor faz isso enquanto as lemos e como esse pormenor torna tudo mais excitante.
This was actually a revisiting of an old dear friend - and i so am glad i did it! Everyone always talks, raves, pens essays, articles and books about F. Scotts Great Gatsby or Tender is the Night...yet somehow his short stories are always "forgotten", even by those that are fans of him.True, Fitzgerald didn't think of himself as a good writer of short stories, and admitted to doing them for the money...and yet, in most of them you will find, in a more youthful less bitter manner, the many featur
Scott´s Great Gatsby or Tender is the Night...yet somehow his short stories are always "forgotten", even by those that are fans of him.True, Fitzgerald didn't think of himself as a good writer of short stories, and admitted to doing them for the money...and yet, in most of them you will find, in a more youthful less bitter manner, the many features that make you love the man and his work.Over the years - either by work related reasons or simply personal pleasure - i have lost count of the number of short stories i read and, quite frankly, forgot 5m after..oh well 15 in some cases ;) Very rarely does a short story cause such an impact in me that, almost 20 years later i still remember it vividly...the one other example i can think of is "The Yellow Wallpaper" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.In here you will find perhaps the most famous of his short stories - "The diamond..."( along with a few others),.In it, a small town boy, John T.
The Diamond as Big as the Ritz to me is the marquee story of the 20's. The language and prose is crisp and clear, and you can image the descriptions as art direction for a tux-and-flapper-dress movie or a series of art deco murals. The story is a great blend of high adventure as well as exploitive campiness. While the other stories still have that distinct art deco elegance, the Diamond story is just so over the top, like a Hollywood blockbuster.
Stories as big as life.
استمتعت للغاية بالفكرة للدرجة التي جعلتني أبحث عن البطل إذا كان بالفعل متواجدا في الحقيقة!الاستعداد الطويل للخروج:بالرغم من قصرها لكنها من أروع ما في المجموعة..
و لكن ليس نفس الحب مرتين"من اجل كتابة قصة رومانسية جيدة انت لا تحتاج إلى قصة من 500 صفحة مكررة في 5 أجزاء مثل توايلات وبقية قصص المراهقين ..
أنت فقط تحتاج إلى عدة صفحات و قصة واقعية بسيطة..
و تحتاج فقط إلى فتاة تبحث عن الأفضل لها..
واحدة من أفضل القصص الرومانسية القصيرة التي قرأتها..رواسب السعادة :قصة رومانسية أخرى..
عندما بدأت المراجعة تذكرت المجموعة و شعرت أنها كانت جيدة بما يكفي لأمنحها النجمات الأربع..
This is my second read for Fitzgerald and i usually prefer novels, but i enjoyed these stories.
The second story which was my favorite "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" i feel like this one would be a good movie.
I found it as an ordinary story with ordinary characters and it ends up with a moral that parts of what makes people who they are, is their environment and conditions.
I admired the maturity and self discovery i've seen in the protagonist and the whole story felt like watching a teenage American movie, but i believe the author was dealing with fame and popularity in this one.
This is a story about a school boy, John Unger, from a respectable rich family in Hades, a small town on the Mississippi River.
At 16, John was sent to St Midas’ school in Boston for a New England education which is a necessity for all promising young men.
At the school, he met Percy Washington, a very rich student, even by St Midas’ standard, judging by his clothes.
That was the time when Americans were exploring the great wide world outside their towns, believing that there ought to be a land of milk and honey out there, a hidden Eden.
However, this gem of short stories will have me reading more novels by Fitzgerald.
It may be my own prejudice that has kept me from reading a lot of Fitzgerald, since Hemingway thought he was a drunken hack.What I saw in these short stories, shows me that my favorite author may have been wrong.
Don't look for any happy endings in any of the stories here; there aren't any.
Bernice Bobs Her Hair has the most satisfying ending.
Ice Palace also ends satisfactorily.
The Diamond as Big as the Ritz reads like a horror story with a dash of Sci-fi here and there, at least to me.
Fitzgerald is one of my favourite writers and his short work is every bit equal to his longer length novels.
The Diamond as Big as the Ritz takes Fitzgerald into the realms of the fantastic, with a rich, supercilious dynasty, in an opulent hideaway.
Their vast wealth means that they are aloof and precluded from a world that they've exploited through their greedy and bullish capitalist ideals.
This is a wonderful novella with a scathing attack on capitalism, class inequality and exploitation of the poorer socio-economic classes.
Plus it has Fitzgerald's wonderful turn of phrase - the metaphor of the valley and a vagina exemplifies Fitzgerald's courageous mastery.
you get the usual Fitzgerald jazz age stories drifting rich whites longing for more than their material wealth provides (a little over these), but you also get some seriously imaginative stories, the titular story of this collection being an extremely fun adventure story!
all written in that decadent Fitzgerald prose style, with paragraphs exploding off of the page into a luxurious warmth that simultaneously takes your breath away.
one major complaint i have, and this honestly pertains to most high modernist authors (i suppose its a problem of the era rather than with Fitzgerald himself), is that the ideas portrayed regarding masculinity, gender roles, and racial/ethnic dynamics are all painfully antiquated and rather distracting.
F Scott never fails to amaze me. Absolutely brilliant stories. Definitely an instant favourite.
Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017Never had I imagined the scope of Fitzgerald's writing powers; not in terms of style - obviously the man writes prose the way Cova makes panettone - but of genre. There's Vernian sci-fi and ghost stories in here, alongside the more famous Jazz-age tales, and the guy is flawless in everything he tries.
Understand that in life, what results you achieve won't resemble the ends you sought. Wield this understanding in your eye, look at hopeful people with either pity or malice, depending on your assessment of their character, whether they believed in some good or brought bad along their long-drawn plight.
Jewels are absolutely useless.
Is there any other possession adorned with such all-consuming envy while simultaneously void of all practical use?
Jewels and gold are as intrinsically meaningless in backing wealth as numbers on paper.
They have cavernous souls which prey mischievously on Man's affinity for power.
They fill the void of there existence by manipulating the weakness and vice of mankind.
The wealth of this story is in language, artificial serenity, love, suspense, dread and destruction.
Its symbolic power cannot be ignored.
The family on the mountain adorn the name of America's most famous forefather.
The reality of Fitzgerald's often unusual stories! Personal favorites "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" for its dazzling descriptions and "Bernice Bobs Her Hair", which seemed to me as one of the most intense psychographies in literature I have ever read.
*edit* Someone checked it out today, and I told him I liked Fitgerald's writing, mentioning Great Gatsby.
He was like, 'Great Gatsby?
F. Scott's characterizations are all pretty much interchangable, and the stories are shallow fluff, but it all represents the opulent 20's before the Great Depression-as it were.
Scott Fitzgerald is great reading on those lazy days when you have free-time to just lounge and imagine the time period of which he wrote, the opulent, swinging twenties.
These short stories are original, not as good as Gatsby, but good.Having written this, I am just going to add that I understand why F.
In this collection of short stories, the author shows his contempt for those with wealth, power, or pedigree and the havoc they would inflict on Everyman if given the opportunity.
While she is given her comeuppance, the lengths the title character goes to obtain it is traumatic.
In "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz", callow John Unger learns from his jaded friend Percy just how inhumane and evil some will sink to maintain wealth.
In contrast to the Shangri-la in Rand's "Atlas Shrugged", this fantastic hideaway seethes with slavery, torture, and death, and imparts a profound lesson.Although these stories were unique and engaging, the bitter aftertaste left a sense of negativity which may not be something most readers seek from recreational reading.
I made a perfect fool of myself while I was reading the first short story from this edition (Diamond As Big As The Ritz).
Overall, I liked these short stories better than the ones I had read before in Magnetism (Penguin Great Loves edition), coincidentally my favourite story from the aforementioned book was Bernice Bobs Her Hair and it was in this book too.
Fitzgerald's mastery of language as well as his toying with human emotion makes this a fascinating read.

I loved this collection. I really think it's F. Scott Fitzgerald at his best. The prose was quite enchanting and surprisingly easy to read. The descriptions and details of each story were beautiful and delicate, and each tale expressed such a quintessential aspect of human nature. I enjoyed these so much better than The Great Gatsby. I hope Fitzgerald has some more novels that I can glorify in. And cry buckets after reading. Because that's what happened with each short story in here.
I thought I wanted to read more F. Scott Fitzgerald when I was biking through the South of France a few weeks ago and kept recognizing the names of towns from, I think, Tender is the Night. So I borrowed this book from someone in Barcelona when I was feeling too lazy to read Spanish. The short stories didn't do much for me and I am trying to remember if I actually liked the book that took place on the Cote d'Azur...
I've never been much of a Fitzgerald's fan, but I have to admit he knows how to play the words and in these stories we get a good look at how well he does it.
It's better than a sound of the piano tenderly following the keyboard as it plays Fur Elise or the way nature blooms into spring as easily as it becomes naked wtih winter.
I strongly recommend this one collection of tales.
Instead of reading Tender is the Night and become quite unimpressed(it is a little like reading a gossip magazine with fictional characters), try this and become mesmerized.
The literary equivalent of a handful of diamonds. "The Offshore Pirate" was my favorite but they were all wonderful: "The Diamond As Big As the Ritz," "The Ice Palace," "Bernice Bobs Her Hair," "The Jelly-bean," "May Day." Fitzgerald's genius is evident in his short stories more than in any of his novels (save Gatsby, of course).
Actually 3.5 stars, a book full of great stories. But my favourites are the cut glass bowl and may day. Sometimes just a bit boring. But I really enjoyed reading this. I now have a really good idea on Fitzgerald's ways of writing and to know if I am a fan.
"The Diamond..." is the best and the rest ones are great as well
A Diamond As Big As the Ritz is my favorite F. Scott story. I think you'll see why.
عنميتشين أهلك يا فيتزجيرالد
