https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/559052.Free_Land
The story about the stolen Indian papoose corpse is genius -- a better description of the clash of pioneer culture with Indian culture I never read.
While the story is told from David's perspective, Wilder doesn't demonize anyone.
Rose Wilder Lane is of course the daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder, and from what I can google this book is meant to be a fictionalization of Laura's parents' early years together, and fans of the series will recognize certain scenes.
Free Land reads like non-fiction in its detail and its immediacy.
By contrast, this book reads like the plain unvarnished truth.
David's parents are successful and established, with a beautiful holding, plenty of money, and the hard years behind them; David has this for contrast as he begins independent life with $900 in the bank and watches it trickle right away into debts; necessary debts to make a go of it.
Terrible blizzards, droughts, incessant wind, near starvation, and work, always the intensely hard work, are all part of David and Mary's daily realities to endure and the reader is right there next to them through all of it.
Laura wrote out her stories, then Rose edited and put them together into book forms.
You can see a definite difference between the LH books and The First Four Years, which did not have Rose's editorial input.)So much of this book is familiar - the character David is obviously based on her father Almanzo.
His growing up places (New York and Minnesota) mirror Almanzo's life, as well as the names of his siblings, his love of Morgan horses, and many other instances.
This is definitely a more "grown up" version of the stories though, as it is dealing with events through the eyes of David and Mary, newlyweds and new pioneers, instead of a child's eye.
Engrossing and beautifully descriptive. I so appreciated the attention to detail which really brought home the deprivations these brave souls endured. Characters spring to life from these pages, and in their understated way, rise to heroic heights. I especially appreciated the sacrifice of the wife, who longed to go home to Minnesota and made it known on more than one occasion.
Rose Lane is Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter, and this book is both a fictionalized version of her parents' homesteading story and a critique of the American government's land policies during the westward homesteading rush around 1900.
I don't know for certain, but I am guessing every major event in the book really happened to someone--either Laura and Almanzo, someone in their town, or Rose heard about it through neighborhood gossip or the newspapers.
All these events are fictionalized together in the characters of Mary and David Beaton and the Peters family.

But Free Land, by her daughter Rose Wilder Lane, depicts a harsher reality.In Free Land, written in 1938, Rose chronicles David Beaton and his new wife, Mary, as they struggle to make good on their Dakota homestead.
Early in Free Land, we learn that David's great-grandfather has opined, "My life has been mostly disappointments" - a quote originally attributed to Almanzo Wilder late in his life.While reading the Little House books gives one a feel for the harshness of pioneer living, Free Land is much harsher.
I sought out this book after reading "A Wilder Rose," a fictionalized account of Rose Wilder Lane's life and writing career.
Lane was the daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder, author of the "Little House" series, and "Wilder Rose" focuses in large part on Lane's writing career, with emphasis on her relationship with her mother and her part in bringing the "Little House" series to life.
For people who haven't encountered the controversy: Many people have noticed that "The First Four Years," the last book in the "Little House" series, is not nearly as compelling as the other stories.
If memory serves, RWL took the material for this book from her mother's first attempt at a memoir, Pioneer Girl, before the draft was reimagined as a multi-volume series for children (The Little House books).
As a result, there are a lot of familiar incidents and characters, along with some things evidently judged too grim for children, like the occasional posse and lopping off of gangrenous limbs.
Instead, they have a casual almost-family friendship, with a very occasional hint of something more.
I picked up Free Land because rumor has it Lane based the events in the books on her mother Laura Ingalls Wilder's family stories.
And who doesn't love more LIW stories?
But maybe Lane's writing wasn't for me.
That being said, I couldn't put the book down.
What new and terrible thing will happen next to these poor people?
(view spoiler)[How will they ever get out of debt and survive to see a successful planting season?
(hide spoiler)]A fast and compelling read about frontier life in the late 1800s.
Good if you're into that sort of thing.
David Beaton and his wife Mary leave Minnesota in the early 1880s to homestead in South Dakota during the land rush.
The land was free, but the couple paid dearly for it when they encountered blizzards, tornadoes, and drought.
Rose Wilder Lane borrowed heavily from her parents' experiences homesteading.
Any Laura Ingalls Wilder fan will recognize names and basic plot points from her stories.
While Wilder wrote from the optimistic viewpoint of a child, Lane wrote from the bleak viewpoint of an adult.
Unlike Wilder's timeless stories, Lane's is much more dated in the vocabulary and the writing style.
Positive, well written
David and Mary are two good people that work for what they have and do their best to survive the pioneer days just like Rose's family members, and in this way the book is also like the Little House series and "Young Pioneers." I felt that I connected with characters even more than meant to because I kind of felt that I already knew them from the Little House series and "Young Pioneers." The plot is often twisting and turning because of a natural disaster or a illness or famine but it works because it's based on real events that really did happen around every corner.
"Free Land," by Rose Wilder Lane is a good book and I recommend reading it if you like what its about; pioneers, hardships, and people trying their best to live on the "free" land.
The version I read names the main characters as Mary and David, removing the story further from the LH characterizations.
The sometimes assumption that neighbors helped each other freely flies in the face of the expenses involved even in the face of emergency (David is trapped in town during a raging blizzard, but still has to pay a daily fee for boarding the team at the livery; he saves the community by a heroic ride to retrieve a stolen mummy, but when the crisis is over he still has to pay for the telegraph he sent to keep his neighbors from massacre).I will read this one again because I like stories of struggle and sacrifice, set in grittier times.Mild, very infrequent, profanity; no descriptive or gratuitous violence; no descriptive sexual content (although the couple do get frisky with each other!) Two or three scenes that might be mildly racist by today's standards.
even the quote at the beginning - "My life's been mostly disappointments." That was said by her father, Almanzo Wilder, during an interview she gave him when she was gathering accurate information for the writing of this book.
They got a letter that David's parents would come for a visit and they were so nervous - he hadn't seen them since he moved away as a 19 year old, and they were worried what they'd think of their meager existence.
Their parents' three week stay was the best time they'd had for years; his hard father fell in love with his grandchildren, and the relationship with David has changed to one of a man-to-man.
Rose Wilder Lane takes you right into the realities of homestead life in the 1880s in Dakotas.
I missed Ingalls Wilders prose; rhythmic and lyrical and her love for the land and its beauties and wildness.
Lane's characters were connected to the land but only in a very utilitarian way.
I also found myself falling out of the story at times because I felt that Lane's transitions sometimes left me not quite sure how I got from where I'd just been to where she was going next.
Overall I enjoyed the book but it's journalist style and stark realism left me not feeling much or feeling at all connected to her characters.
It's darker, grittier and a review on the back cover used the word "realism," I think that fits.Quotes: said mildly and without bitterness by an old man, "my life has been mostly disappointments.""Bare endurance becomes a kind of progress, when not giving up is the most that can be done."The thing that baffles me, even though I've done somthing similar, is why does Almanzo or David Beaton in Free Land or Charles Ingalls in Little House in the Big Woods leave a prosperous & comfortable farm to live a life of subsistence in the wilderness?
As I discovered in Pioneer Girl, Rose Wilder Lane helped her mother by editing her original adult novel, Pioneer Girl, and then helped her edit them to children’s books.
Lane then used the stories to write her own adult novels.
Rose Wilder Lane was a very famous author in her day, but has been eclipsed in modern times by her mother.
Lane’s pioneer books are worth a read, especially for lovers of pioneer tales.
Their story is very similar to the real life stories of Almanzo and Laura Wilder and Charles and Caroline Ingalls.Part of a larger blog post about Top 10 Pioneer Books at: http://lauragerold.blogspot.com/2016/...
If, like me, you're a Laura Ingalls Wilder fan, you might have wondered why Almanzo's family ever left their prosperous farm in Malone, NY, to go to MN.
Hope Laura shows up later.I'll let you know how it goes, but I'm surprised I didn't know about this book until stumbling on that Almanzo bike race in southern MN...Pt 2: I get what other reviewers said about the abrupt ending!
And I would've liked her to tie up the Peters' more, since they had many things in common w the Ingalls.
Nevertheless, I tore thru the book.

This book is a tribute to Rose's growing libertarian philosophy in the 1930's.
There are comments to hating the government and its control along with stories of her parents' and grandparents' attempts to homestead in South Dakota.
Reading this also makes you realize why Rose was a popular writer in her time as she lays out gritty stories with colorful characters.
When read with "The First Four Years" as we did for book club I was reminded again how obvious it is that Rose did much more than edit the Little House series.
You know how when you were really little you thought people in the old days didn't swear and drink, etc.?
I swear that I thought that way after reading the Little House on the Prairie series.
So it's ironic that Laura Ingalls' daughter, Rose Wilder Lane writes this real life version of pioneer life.
Free Land is a fictional account of a pioneer family in the Dakota territory about the time Laura Ingalls' family was there in the book the Hard Winter.
I had a hard time putting it down and enjoyed a more realistic and even racier look at pioneer life.
I feel generous giving this book 3 stars. I struggled through it. I didn't care for the main character, David, and his wife, Mary, never seemed like a fully developed character to me. I did like the family friend, Nettie, and her optimism. She is the bright light in the book. This book is a good reminder of the hardships of homesteading and the amazing resilience of the men and women who settled the West. These type of books make you realize again the many comforts we enjoy daily and give no thought to. 6/14
I'm sure we are all aware that Rose used her mother's memoirs called Pioneer Girl that, eventually became the Little House series to write Free Land. Although she was was an exceptional writer in her time, she is not as colorful a writer as her mother.The story is full of struggle and sadness, always scraping by just to survive. Anyone who thinks they have it rough now should read what these pioneers experienced.
Brilliant. Rose was a terrific writer; it is a shame her works have fallen in the shadow of the Little House books. The story was well crafted, the characters absolutely believable, and while the ending was a tiny bit fantastical, I was so rooting for David and Mary I was delighted for them. If you are a fan of the Little House stories, this is a grand grownup book to read, written well before Laura began penning Pioneer Girl.
It was kinda strange to recognize a lot of familiar characters and situations from the Little House series, and I had to remember, this is a different story(but drawing from the same historical figures), but this was a much more grim story of the hardships that homesteaders faced. It wasn't a very fast-moving or gripping story, but something interesting always came up. It's a wonder that any homesteader would stay hopeful in the midst of all the setbacks.
I have loved Rose Wilder Lane's political writings, but this is my first fictional work of hers and I loved it. This was comparable SOMEWHAT to the writings of Willa Cather. I will admit that I still prefer her political writings though.Also, I had always rolled my eyes at the conspiracy that she wrote the "Little House" books, but this was so similar that it might warrant a second look!
I enjoyed this book. The only reason I'm giving it 4, is really a 4.5 because the language seems old fashioned and not in an intended way for the period. More of an elderly school teacher preachy quality many times throughout. Probably a 5 to those who don't mind that as much as I did. I still recommend it as a good book.
I really enjoyed this book. I felt like it took me right back to it's time, and I laughed and cried with the characters. I enjoy just about all I can find on this time period, and felt this story did a pretty good job showing how hard it was, yet how satisfying too. Good reminder for us who live in easier times.
The prose style is dated, but the historical veracity rings quite true. Even the rare contact with Indians is surprisingly unracist. (Not usually the case from the 1930's.) An unromanticized look at a hard life.In a link with current politics, she begins by pointing out how the US government gave land to the corporations that was purchased with taxpayer money.
