https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10194157-shadow-and-bone
The biggest issue with this book is actually NOT the utter fail at correctly incorporating the Russian elements into the story.It's that I'd never be able to pick this book out of a generic YA book lineup.It's like a ninja, perfectly blending into its surroundings, into that painfully generic landscape that plagues YA literature recently, the lackluster background against which few gems truly stand out.
(Yes, I loved writing the word 'women' three times in that short sentence.) I know, I know, there is Genya who is nice, but all other pretty women are eeeeevillll or stupid.² Well, in all honesty, one of them could make centenarians look like children.
I don't think words can properly describe how much I adored SHADOW & BONE. The characters, the world-building...it completely blew me away. There were moments when I was so stunned by the beauty and the brilliance that I had to stop reading. I never wanted this book to end.This is the best YA fantasy novel I've read since SABRIEL or THE GOLDEN COMPASS.
While I was fascinated by the world, but at the same time, I didn't feel like the world was fleshed out enough.
We don't really get much world building, you're just kind of thrown into the world, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but for me there were things that I needed to be explained more for me to be able to fully visualize the setting.
I also just wasn't a huge fan of the main character Alina, and maybe I'll grow to like her in the next few books, but in this book she annoyed me.
And speaking of this atmosphere, Russian "flavor" if you will, Shadow and Bone is a rare book whose covers (both US and UK) reflect the novel's mood well, even though I find UK's tagline to be a bit misleading and melodramatic.
Shadow and Bone is not an isolated example of a lazy handling of Russian language and culture, and very often I feel very much compelled to offer authors, who choose to base their stories on Russia, my help, to at least check the spelling of the words.
Damn you for tricking me.Leigh Barduga is like some kind of literary crouching tiger, hidden dragon or something.You would be forgiven, upon commencing this novel, for thinking Shadow and Bone is redundant, cliched piece of tripe book with poor story-telling, average writing and a predictable plot.
It was outside these factors that I loved the novel.It's strengths definitely rely on its characters and powerful storyline because the actual narration and writing tended toward the telling as opposed to showing side.For example: Alexei's fingers slipped on the railing.
Her debut Shadow and Bone takes Russian folklore and mythology and creates an alternate tsarist Russia (Ravka) where magic and military might coexist uneasily.
Both are tested by the Grisha, an ancient and powerful order of magicians, but neither show aptitude, so Mal becomes an accomplished military tracker, while Alina studies as an army cartographer and has nothing to look forward to but a mundane existence.
Alina might hold the secret to destroying the Shadow Fold and saving Ravka, but only if she survives her enemies -- some from other countries, some from within the kingdom itself.Shadow and Bone works on every level.
Is it because while reading a book you love your get so swept away with the story that you can't be bothered to take notes?
It is my hope, however, that my inability to do this book justice in my review speaks volumes in and of itself.Shadow and Bone follows the story of Alina Starkov, a remarkable young girl, who holds a power not even she realizes she has.
I just love it!I'm really not sure what else to say about Shadow and Bone besides the obvious: it was awesome and you should read it.
“You and I are going to change the world.”Leigh’s cooking receipt for “Shadow and Bone”:1 naïve and rather plain looking heroine1 handsome childhood friend1 dark, mysterious and irresistible villain1 close friend that’s kind of an outsider as wellA pinch of magicA hint of insecurityA handful of unexpected eventsAnd half a teaspoon of scheming and betrayalTo get the full effect you have to mix up all the ingredients and let the dough rise for at least half an hour.
I didn’t like Kilorn in “Red Queen” and I usually tend to dislike the “handsome childhood friends” in YA books but I really ended up liking Mal. He’s nice and caring and he’s a loyal friend of Alina.
4 StarsSo confession:I originally snagged this book after waiting so long to read it, because I was able to snag it on sale for $1.99 on amazon kindle.
And I knew I would want to read the rest of the series...And then I saw how pretty the covers were...AND they were cheaper than the kindle versions at the time of this review.
So, of course, I bought the last two books in the physical.
Nice work, Val. Anynonsense, this book has been reviewed at length, so I'll keep this brief.
I say interested - and not enthralled, mind you, thus why four and not five stars.
Please note: this is not really a review. In fact, this may be my most useless non-review to date (there have been a few) and is actually better described as a random mish-mash of my thoughts and feelings on this book. "Aren't all your reviews like that, Emily?" I hear you cry, but alas, the random incoherentness is somewhat even more pronounced in this one.You know, I've wondered ever since Shadow and Bone was released last year whether I would fall into the camp of gushing, never-ending love
In fact, this may be my most useless non-review to date (there have been a few) and is actually better described as a random mish-mash of my thoughts and feelings on this book.
"Aren't all your reviews like that, Emily?" I hear you cry, but alas, the random incoherentness is somewhat even more pronounced in this one.You know, I've wondered ever since Shadow and Bone was released last year whether I would fall into the camp of gushing, never-ending love for it...
And douse yourself with some badassery so you can stop being such a wimp because so far this world is looking awfully like the disappointing one of Grave Mercy.Also - is there a love triangle here?
I went into this book with pretty low expectations. Everyone seemed to not love it and I wanted to read it just so I could get to the Six of Crows duology. Well turns out I really liked it!Not a fan of the romance/love triangle ish but the world is interesting and the magic system is awesome!Will definitely continue!
I thought, with my knowledge of the English language (at that time) that picking a 400 page book up as a first read in English was going to work out well for me.
AMAZING.Alina is the kind of main character I love reading about in a fantasy book.
They were meant for each other.Although, as much as I may have loved Mal, I did have a perference for the mysterious and dangerous Darkling.He did not turn out to be as lethal as I would have liked...but he is a fantastic villain still and I am dying to read more about him in the sequels.The writing was excellent and I'm definitely applauding the author in my mind.
I think this may be due to the fact that I should have listened to everyone and started with these first.
I was so confused initially in SoC that it took a lot longer than it should have for me to get sucked in.
So far the grisha trilogy feels darker and more serious than SoC as well.
Really glad I have Kainat and Bentley to hold my hand through these tough times y'all.
I apologize for waiting so long to read these and not listening to the masses.
*******************************Buddy Read with the fabulous Bentley<3
2 1/2 stars, but I have literally no clue at all how to rate this, because it is all over the place. The first half was actually terrible [like, awful] but the second half was Really Cool and I don't know how to reconcile these two emotions? But also I have like. fifteen books marked review to come. So let's go.  → worldbuilding I pretend to care about ← [I just… really don’t care about worldbuilding. Is the worldbuilding in this book good? Who fucking knows. This is not my division.]Honestly, I
The first half was actually terrible [like, awful] but the second half was Really Cool and I don't know how to reconcile these two emotions?
But Alina’s insecurity actually feels like a super authentic character trait.
I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY Y’ALL REVIEW THIS BOOK THE WAY YOU DO.
[Somewhat bland love interest who possibly might be working through prejudice… hm I feel like that sounds familiar] Alina had the greatest antihero moment at the end of this book after being sort of boring for half the book.
I don’t know how I feel about this book.
You're gonna question your moral compass, and you're gonna be happy about it.
But I will mention the thing that got me so mad that when I read it, I actually screamed out loud and immediately turned off the Kindle, knowing that this book had no more chances of getting me to read onwards.Writing a “Russian-flavored” fantasy with hardly any research into Russian culture is bad enough—but then there was the TRULY AWFUL use of Asian stereotypes that had me fuming.Our instructor, Botkin Yul-Erdene, wasn’t Grisha; he was a former Shu Han mercenary who had fought in wars on every continent for any army that could afford his particular gift for violence.Shu Han is clearly the SHADOW AND BONE-world equivalent of the Chinese race, taking its name from the ancient Han Dynasty, but with the unfortunate connection to the stereotype of hulking, dangerous-looking, surly, war-happy Asian soldiers-for-hire.
4.5 stars! On reread in 2018: Still 4.5 stars for me! I’m so glad to be re-reading this.
Before, they get attacked again, Alina use her powers to save Mal's life (powers she didn't know she had).
Because of these powers Alina was taken away by the Darkling(a mysterious and handsome man) to train as a Grisha.So, the important question is:Mal or the Darkling?(view spoiler)[Guess what?
I have no team yet!1) At first, when we saw the Darkling and he took away Alina I hated him because she didn't choose this.
All I know is that the man who I (almost) loved he is the villain in the book and he betrayed Alina!
Mal cares deeply about Alina.He loves her.
While SoC definitely feels more ambitious than this one in terms of the scope of the story, this book became more compelling for me personally because of the way the world is introduced, the characters and plotting.The setting and magic system are both crazy good here.
As great as Alina was, the Darkling was 10x better and definitely my favorite character in the story.
One pet peeve I have with a lot of YA stories pertaining to magic is that they get bogged down in trying to prove their character isn't a Mary Sue by making them suffer and stink at training for the entire book, neglecting the plot.
I feel like my original review just needed to say more about my heart for this book...
I'll say it again, but I HIGHLY recommend the audiobooks for enhanced experience.)For those of you who would like to take the Darkling with you in the car on the way to work in the mornings, or for those of you who want to get a feel for the legit badassery that is this series..
I don't always recommend the audiobook version of a book to people- but the narrator who does this series is PHENOMENAL.
HA! Just kidding.  This isn't your fifth-grade English paper, darling.You don’t get points for trying. See, to me, YA is like the BIG LEAGUES when it comes to book genres.In YA… you have to be able to tell a story. And you have to do it really well. Because in this genre, you can’t rely on those really steamy sex scenes or hot business moguls with BDSM skeletons in their closet to carry your series. And you can’t use an infinite amount of those really pretty curse words to get your point acros
This isn't your fifth-grade English paper, darling.You don’t get points for trying.
See, to me, YA is like the BIG LEAGUES when it comes to book genres.In YA… you have to be able to tell a story.
Because in this genre, you can’t rely on those really steamy sex scenes or hot business moguls with BDSM skeletons in their closet to carry your series.
And you can’t use an infinite amount of those really pretty curse words to get your point across.
Able.
To. Tell.
A. Story.
You have to be the best of the best to pull off this genre, sweetheart.
That said, here's why I didn't give it a 5 stars like I initially thought I would: I wasn't crazy about the big "twist" regarding a few characters towards the end of the book, and I will admit that it took a couple of chapters for me to get attached to it, just because there are so many non-English terms that felt a little similar to one another and I had a hard time keeping them straightened out at first.
after seeing all the fuss over Leigh Bardugo's new book, (which i also have idly sitting on my shelf), i decided i should read shadow and bone, and as mentioned previously, I'm impressed!
However; it is adamant, that the simple and minor details shaping her main character create a sense of uniqueness, a sort of trademark to her writing.
The way the world revolves and builds, and then simply unravels once again, it made me feel as if i were living in this alternate reality.The book had incredibly good pace, and it was truly action riddles.
And you will only understand what I'm talking about if you have read the book and know what Alina is.
Anyway, Mal and Alina get separated because she's beyond special now and goes to live with the other special people with the king.
The Darkling was pretty hot and wanting to keep Alina all to himself and I loved him until he made me mad so there goes that.
Anyway, in this book some people are up to no good and Alina has to flee and ends up with Mal and then they get caught and some stuff goes down and then they are fleeing again.
The universe and the greed of men.”Since so many of my goodreads friends have already read this book, I guess it was about time for me to pick it up.Alina Starkov is one of those many plain main characters that you could easily replace with another female lead from a different book and it probably wouldn't make any difference.
However, this does not mean that it was a bad read.
Apart from that, Bardugo's world is a great work of YA fantasy, and I'm looking forward to reading the sequels.
An enjoyable, easy, fantastic and quick read.Find more of my books on Instagram
*3.5 stars*
I've wanted to read a book like this for so long, I can't explain it.
Where your hands are itching to read it (but I had work so couldn't) any break I had it out and was reading it, just hopelessly wanting to find out what happened next!What I liked most about the book, is that I didn't really find it to have filler scenes.
I have never been so intrigued about a character, and still I don't think we really know a lot about him other than bits and pieces of information.I really liked Alina as a character, I was so happy that she wasn't a stereotypical female character who is beautiful and everyone wants to look like her, and the book goes on about her beauty.
At some points, this could be a little slow, but there is a point in the story where everything turns on its head and I fell in love! (Also a little in love with the Darkling...)
You’re the first glimmer of hope I’ve had in a long time. I don't know why it has taken me this long to start this series. But I'm actually kind of grateful that I'm reading it now that the Throne of Glass series is complete. I'll now have this world to obsess over. This book was a really good start to a series. It lays the ground work for what's to come and I'm really excited to continue on. There were times where I found the main character, Alina, irritating. Plus I'm not particularly fond of
This book was a really good start to a series.
There were times where I found the main character, Alina, irritating.
For more than half of the book Alina was in denial of her powers.
He wanted to take away the one thing that had ever really belonged to me, the only power I’d ever had.
I do ship Alina and the Darkling.
As I said before I'm not a fan of Mal and I don't like him and Alina together.
Girl is then separated from her best friend and is forced to live in a palace.
I’ve wanted to read Six of Crows since what feels like the beginning of time, that is the main reason I started this series….
I was expecting this book to be spectacular with all the rave reviews it gets constantly but it really wasn’t that good.
There are about four main characters in this book: Alina, Mal, The Darkling and Genya.
Tbh I don’t even know what I was expecting of Genya, but I went in really wanting to like her, and she fell flat too.
All this to say I still liked the book and I’ve already moved on to the rest of the series, so it wasn’t that bad.
