https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10305231-the-next-always
Sure, it may seem gratuitous, but for those of us who read her books it is the best thing ever.*Super Ovaries Activate!!*Dammit.
Nothing.I knew the price I would pay for trying to use the bathroom without an audience.One of the funniest, and best parts of the story is where Beckett is reaching out to Clare's boys and he goes back to tell his own two brothers (grown men) about how one of them said that he wanted little coffins to bury his dead action figures in after the superhero battle/war.
I have never been so disappointed in a Nora Roberts book.
It felt like she basically phoned this one in.
There was no romance, no plot, no storyline basically.
It was a bland account of how to build an inn in a small town, with a few interactions between a man and a woman with three kids.
Blah.
Oh, and then there was the supposed bad guy tossed in the mix, I guess to try and create some tension in the story?
This is definitely one of those books I wish I hadn't wasted my time reading.
I absolutely loved this book!I will admit, I'm biased.
My review is slanted to my love of beautiful packaging and this book is beautifully presented in this pretty cover.
I'm also biased because I'm from MD and I have had the opportunity to visit Boonsboro, and the Inn this book is based on.To the book, I absolutely enjoyed the story of Beckett and Clare rediscovering each other as more than friends and finding love.
The banter between grown brothers Beckett, Owen and Ryder was also such a cute and clever parallel to the banter of Clare's little boys Harry, Liam and Murphy.
Say what you will about Nora Roberts, she sure knows how to paint a picture with words and pull you in.
As I read The Next Always I could picture the town of Boonsboro and felt like I had been to that small town.
Nora Roberts novels aren't High Art. That's not the type of author she is and she's not trying to be that author.
She wants her readers to be able to disappear from real life and enjoy a world in which women always get a happy ending.
I don't often read Nora Roberts novels but when I do I usually enjoy them for what they are.
However, with the first book in her new The Inn BoonsBoro trilogy, I can sadly say that is not that the case.I found the three Montgomery boys to be typical Nora Roberts male leads and the three females also seemed to fit the typical mold for a Roberts trilogy.
But when you are as formulaic as Roberts has become, it just seems worse.My least favorite aspect was The Inn BoonsBoro parts.
The place sounds lovely, but the fact that it is a real location and that Roberts took copy from the website to describe the rooms just made it seem like an ad for the place.
3.5 stars ⭐“Fairy tales, she mused. She’d always been a sucker for them. And for a happy ending where everything wrapped up as pretty as a bow in a little girl’s hair.”(Clare)* * *“It’s nice. Being close to you without pretending I’m not trying to be close to you.”- Beckett Montgomery* * *“People or dogs, I’d say it’s more about how you’re raised than bloodlines.”- Beckett Montgomery
3.5 stars ⭐️“Fairy tales, she mused. She’d always been a sucker for them. And for a happy ending where everything wrapped up as pretty as a bow in a little girl’s hair.”(Clare)* * *“It’s nice. Being close to you without pretending I’m not trying to be close to you.”- Beckett Montgomery* * *“People or dogs, I’d say it’s more about how you’re raised than bloodlines.”- Beckett Montgomery
Sure, I felt things were a little fresher with her older books, but I’ve been reading her since high school, so that’s to be expected.
The fact that I still always look forward to seeing what unique spin Roberts will put on the characters and situations in the current book tells me that this author hasn’t gone stale for me.With that said, I have struggled for years to figure out what felt different about Roberts’s present style.
The characters and the way they think and act are still as awesome as ever, the dialogue is still dead on for the contemporary world (and funny to boot!), the setting is detailed and rich like usual, and the writing style is still the same.
Sinceramente até achei-o muito pãozinho sem sal, não senti aquela chama que senti com outras personagens da Nora, como por exemplo os irmãos Quinn!
Acho que a autora também não desenvolveu muito esta personagem, foi sem dúvida uma das personagens mais fracas de toda a trama, Melhor fez com a Clare, a personagem feminina do livro.
Foi também interessante de ver uma personagem que não era só viúva como mãe de três crianças O núcleo infantil foi uma óptima adição a todas as personagens secundárias e até gostei das cenas deles com o Beckett.(...)Nora Roberts tem aqui um bom livro e um bom inicio de trilogia mas ficou aquém das minhas expectativas, contudo tenciono ler os próximos livros.http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp...
It had a male narrator, which I LOVED and I believe the whole trilogy is like that, so I'm really excited.
It was adorable, the way that Beckett just silently loved Clare from afar.
Sometimes Nora Roberts gets to whimsical and ethereal in her sex scenes for my taste, but it's her thing so I can't complain.
One thing that I really liked about the romance here is that it was very easy, low angst, and immediately believable.
As always, Roberts imbued this story with a close knit family feelings that reached out to the entire town, giving a strong sense of community and camaraderie.
Mainly because the Inn she is writing about she owns.The positives in this story:I like the brothers.
They are funny, snarky and pretty much just like all of the brothers she writes about.The growing relationship between the two MC was sweet and believable.The kids.
Those three kids were adorable.The growing relationship between the kids and Beckett was also sweet.The negatives:It read like a brochure to the Inn, the town and Turn the Page bookstore.The ghost.The stalker sub plot.
The problem is, I liked those brothers, so I will read book two.
But for the first time for a Roberts book, I will borrow it from the library and not buy it.
I loved this!!!! Beckett and Clare were as sweet as apple pie. A good read! Can't wait to read the next.
Family is usually a big deal in most NR books, and I appreciate that, she doesn't kill them all off to make it convenient, and have the characters obsessed with their job, no time for a social life.Beckett was pretty good too, and I like that Clare having three sons, and Beckett was one of three sons makes them a good fit.
The interaction between all characters was pretty good, and realistic.I read in someone else's review, I think Willaful (hi Willa!) that most of the conflict in NR's later books is usually external.
I was worried this book would not work for me (it didn't) but since I do love reading HGTV Magazine and other magazines dealing with decorating I didn't think it would be too bad.
I honestly think this could have worked if Roberts had included pictures of the inn and the pizza shop and bookstore in this book.
Roberts depicts Clare as a widow with three young boys and honestly the first thing that stood out for me is that she made her a younger version of the character in Black Rose (In the Garden #2) Rosalind Harper.
This was terrific...It has the same feel as her Bride Quartet with this trilogy focusing on a family of men.I loved the humor and the interactions between Beckett and his brothers.
The inn sounds wonderful and I'm really enjoying watching it unfold.
The ghost was certainly interesting, Ms. Roberts has added varying levels of the supernatural in many of her trilogies.
I also wonder a little bit about Beckett waiting so long to approach Clare if he's always been crazy about her.
That doesn't really seem to fit with his personality, he certainly doesn't come across as shy or insecure!
*3'5*Me ha gustado bastante, se lee en un plis y deja con ganas de seguir leyendo para conocer las historias de las otras parejas y para saber más sobre "el misterio del hotel"
Maybe more like a 2.5 rating.
Nice solid "Meh."So this was my first Nora Roberts book.
I feel very lame admitting that, but the cover looked like somewhere I wanted to go.
I've read much smuttier sex scenes in non-romance novels.
I've tried very hard to like them, and I just can't.
Even reading this one novel, I could feel the formula that Roberts must follow.
There was some foul language, which tends to turn me off anyway, but this felt sprinkled in kind of randomly, like she had to put it in to make her male characters seem masculine.
So when the story would go into long drawn out details about the process of rehabilitating the Inn and designing and outfitting the rooms (a cute idea to be sure, though I find the naming of one of the rooms for the couple from the In Death series to be somewhat tacky) it was like a neon sign saying YOU WANT TO PAY HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS TO STAY HERE, RIGHT?
I read this book because I'd hoped to review it for my local library's blog; but I guess I feel like I have to "recommend" books on that blog, and this isn't a book I'd recommend, even to the avid Nora Roberts fan.The premise of this book starts out as pretty typical Nora Roberts.
I'd chosen a Nora Roberts because I was looking for a romantic novel to recommend to library readers and really felt that I couldn't go wrong with Nora Roberts.
There are way too many books out there that are much better use of your reading time.
Dou as 4 estrelas por lembrar-me dos filhos de Clare, gostei muito das cenas com eles, eram um mimo; há uma certa noite de homens em que Beckett entrou também que fica na memória e, bolas, merece as 4 estrelas, sim senhor!
LOLDe resto, gostei, mas não delirei; os personagens não foram assim tão impressionantes como já aconteceu com muitos e muitos livros de Nora Roberts.
A Clare também não esteve muito mal, como viúva, mãe de 3 crianças fofas e dona de uma livraria que me deixou cheia de inveja.
Mas o relacionamento de Clare e Beckett não foi nada de extraordinário, foi até algo muito morno, muito "meh".
★★★★✩ (Review of audiobook.) This was well narrated by MacLeod Andrews. Some people might not like his falsetto voice for the female characters, but I got used to him. This first one in the Inn BoonsBoro Trilogy putters along at a leisurely pace, but that was fine with me. Still, it ends with a bit of an adrenalin-rush. Getting to know the residents of this small Maryland town was pleasant and the romance between Beckett and Clare was sweet. I’ll definitely listen to the next one, if only to fi
★★★★✩ (Review of audiobook.) This was well narrated by MacLeod Andrews.
Some people might not like his falsetto voice for the female characters, but I got used to him.
This first one in the Inn BoonsBoro Trilogy putters along at a leisurely pace, but that was fine with me.
Still, it ends with a bit of an adrenalin-rush.
Getting to know the residents of this small Maryland town was pleasant and the romance between Beckett and Clare was sweet.
I’ll definitely listen to the next one, if only to find out what happens with the ghost.The second in the series is due May 1, 2012.

Estilo NR.É uma leitura engraçada e fiquei curiosa para saber a estória de Lizzy.
Όταν εκείνος και τα αδέρφια του θα αναλάβουν την ανακαίνιση ενός ιστορικού πανδοχείου στην αμερικάνικη κωµόπολη Μπούνσµπορο, ο δρόμος ο δικός του και της Κλερ μοιραία θα διασταυρωθούν με τους δυο να αντιλαμβάνονται σταδιακά πως τα πάντα μπορούν να συμβούν, αρκεί να το θέλουμε και να προσπαθούμε να το πετύχουμε, και πως ο καθένας μας έχει μια δεύτερη ευκαιρία, τόσο στη ζωή όσο και στο όνειρο.Δεδομένου ότι δεν έχω διαβάσει κάποιο άλλο βιβλίο της Nora Roberts, δεν μπορώ να εκφράσω άποψη για το κατά πόσο, το συγκεκριμένο, είναι καλύτερο ή χειρότερο της.
Her zamanki gibi yine çok güzel bir kurgu ve detay yaratan yazar beni yine kendine hayran bıraktı.Seri, üç erkek kardeşin hikayesini anlatıyor.
(Ayrıca bir odanın ismi Eve ve Roarke idi, okuyunca "vaaay Nora yaaa" dedim ama yine de hoşuma gitti :D )Clare üç çocukla uğraşmasına rağmen Beckett'ın onun için yaptıklarına gözlerini yumamıyor ve bir ilişkiye başlamış oluyorlar.
Ama detaylar için kitabı okumanız gerek =)İkinci kitap The Last Boyfriend, ikinci kardeş Owen'ı ve Clare'in en yakın arkadaşı Avery'i anlatıyor.
Ama kitabı okurken asıl diğer potansiyel çift, otel müdürü Hope ile en büyük kardeş Ryder'ın hikayesini daha bir merak ediyorsunuz; çünkü Ryder, Hope'a karşı garip bir düşmanlık içinde.
Every business reference in this novel is in fact owned by Nora or her family.
I felt like the character's were people we've already seen in several previous novels.
Honestly, I was very disappointed because Nora Robert's is almost always my go to author and this book felt like recycled characters, plots, dialogue and nothing more than one big advertisement for her businesses.
Between the Bride Quartet which also suffered from recycled characters and plot lines and now this I worry and fear that Nora is losing her voice and consequently will lost her audience.
While I certainly enjoyed this book, I can't help but be disappointed at that same time.
I think even some of the conversations were taken directly from those books.
It just lacked originality.
Hearing about the Inn was fun, but did slow the story down.
Similar to how hearing endless stories about flowers and weddings slowed down the previously-mentioned series'.All in all, I'd say if you are a NR fan and can get this from your library, you should read it.
It's a light, fun read with easy to like characters.
But if you're looking for something new and original, keep looking.
Quick review:Cover: Pretty Rating:  NC-17 Steaminess:  HOT Thumbs Up:  4Overall: Well crafted love storyCharacters: Well writtenPlot: For so long you’ve loved afar and now its up close & personalPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: BeckettSUMMARY (50 words or less)Let’s face it, Nora Roberts knows how to write a super believable hot guy and a story built around romance that isn’t contrived.
This story is fantastic.
If you’ve never read a Nora Roberts book, you’re missing it.
He used very different voices for each character which he carried through the series.

3.5 STARSI enjoyed this one and it would have easily been 4 STARS, but the ending felt too rushed. The boys were so adorable, and I love how the town was incorporated into the story. I can't wait to read Ryder's book either; he really intrigued me.
It was the very first book I read from Nora Roberts, and I liked it a lot!!!A nice sweet romance...
