https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401514.Alive
i read this when i was 14. totally scandalized.three months later i still couldn't sit in a chair without wondering what my own asscheeks would taste like if i ate them sashimi-style.
"[The survivors] had neither sensationalized nor sentimentalized their own experience and it seemed important for me to tell the reader what they had told me in the same 'matter-of-fact' manner." –Piers Paul Read I remember watching the film adaptation of this book when I was quite young, and being so impressed with the resilience of the human spirit, and the desire to live. This book surpassed the film, because Read did such a great job of involving the reader in the whole ordeal, including th
"[The survivors] had neither sensationalized nor sentimentalized their own experience and it seemed important for me to tell the reader what they had told me in the same 'matter-of-fact' manner." –Piers Paul Read
This book surpassed the film, because Read did such a great job of involving the reader in the whole ordeal, including the plane crash survivors, their families, and the efforts others made to keep searching for the victims even when the odds of survival were dismal.
"We all have our own mountains, and it's important to remember that no matter how bad things are, one can always overcome them and more so, one must never forget that they can always be worse.
A majority of the passengers were made up of young men who were part of an amateur rugby team going to Chile for a game.
The survivors were, for the most part, very young men (average age around 23 years old).
They loved the game of rugby and were eager to experience a taste of the world outside their beloved Uruguay.Over the next 70 days, the remaining survivors battled cold, avalanches, injury, fear and hunger.
Now I'm older, and it's not the cannibalism that captures my attention, but how these very young men kept their sanity, faith and courage in the face of unimaginable horrors.
Not gonna lie--I read this book because I wanted to read about how they ate the people.
What are they going to talk about for the rest of the book?What they talk about are the other aspects of survival and it is a very compelling read.
I sometimes snap at God when I get caught in traffic and these boys were faithful throughout (although they, understandably, questioned why some lived while others died).
I will have to remember this story next time I get snappy.The only reason that I didn't give this book 5 stars is that I found the parts describing the parents' efforts to find the boys rather dull.
I was a little obsessed with the movie Survive!, the first version of this story when I was a young girl while my younger brother was appalled.
I’ve also seen documentaries and the newer version of the movie Alive in the 90s.
Now, finally I've read the book!
I'm glad I did!
What a shocking story of survival, courage, endurance, and spirituality.
This book is tragic but uplifting in many ways as "....
the ordeal in the mountain had changed their attitude towards life...left only with what they truly cared for, their families, their novias, their faith in God, and their homeland."
I read this when it first came out in PB, so many years ago, mid-70's.
I'd give it 5 stars because I still remember it so clearly, but I never wanted to re-read it.
It was well done, but pretty gruesome.
Stranded for 10 weeks with not much else to eat but dead passengers (some of them team mates) injured, & cold.
It's one of the most incredible stories of survival I've ever read.I wondered what happened to the kids afterward.
I wonder if it sheds more light on what the rest did.
I'm not really sure I want to know.
Likely not...There's a pretty good summary on Wikipedia:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1972_And...
Haunting, haunting book. I read this too long ago to give a proper review but the account itself has stayed with me for years. Amazing story of survival against incredible odds. Not for the faint hearted but truly gripping.CONTENT WARNING: Some strong language and traumatic events. (And by that I mean, plane crash, avalanche, death and cannibalism)
(Most of the survivors were deeply Catholic and had overcome their resistance to anthropophagy by comparing it to the sacrament of Communion.) There are fascinating details sprinkled throughout, such as what such a diet will do to you (a bad combination of severe constipation and diarrhea), and the survivors wondering whether they ought to hide the partly eaten human remains scattered around the crash site so that their rescuers wouldn't think badly of them.
If you could read just 10 books in rest of your life,this book is worthy of being one of them!This i
I purchased this book looking for the facts and an account of the Fairchild Andes crash.
What I got was an account, religiously biased, lacking certain facts when needed.Most of the passengers on the plane were related by being part of or supporting the football team of a religious institution.
So of course prayer and the talk of miracles would turn up.
But when selecting a writing to tell the story they selected a fellow catholic.
I would only recommend this book to a reader who was intensely interested in the events and who was christian.
Anyone else, look for a more non-biased account of events.
Along with what really happened from the parent's point of view with trying to get the gov't to send search and rescue people out, because nobody believed there could be anyone still alive, much less 16 of them.
Also the social and religious struggle each of them went through when faced with the thought that they would have to eat their dead friends to stay alive for a possible rescue.I read every interview in the back of the book after the story ended, and even looked up some websites as I could not get enough of this unimaginable story.
One of the survivors in this book is quoted as saying that his experience of surviving following a plane crash in the Andes Mountains was the greatest experience of his life.
All of the survivors suffered from severe cold, lack of food, and some had injuries,or infections, The test was severe, and yet, this young man could say that it was his greatest exprience.
The book was well written and had a very interesting subject.
A chart at the end of the book of who survived and how each of the others died would have been very helpful.
Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors recounts the survival story of a rugby team whose plane crashes in the Andes Mountains.
Given up for dead by most of the world and even some of their families, they exist despite little shelter from the cold, avalanches and with the knowledge that no search party will likely see them from the air or even have an idea where they crashed.This book is worth the read, but warn that some of the content is not recommended for the squeamish.
I had to sneak this from the school library as a young teen and read it since my parents wouldn't allow me to watch the film- until they caught me with this (good) book and finally relented...the film was actually MORE disturbing than the book, IMO. (Also, as a side note-- I forgot that it stars Ethan Hawke!)--Jen from Quebec :0)
Is a magnificent book, for a hard story, the story of rugby team from Uruguay, after your plane crashed on the Andes mountains in October of 1972. The story of the hope and fight for your lives. Masterfully written for Piers Paul Read, about the journey of survivors for save yourselves. They had to survive the elements, hunger, despair.The story of the determination of survivors to the accident for to be survivors. One of the best books I have ever read. Definitely I recommend this book.
This was the frightening yet amazing true story of a team of rugby players trying to survive in the mountains against the dangers present. Only sixteen survived and were able to tell their story.
On Friday, Oct. 13, 1972 a Fairchild F-227 chartered from the Uruguayan Air Force, carrying a young amateur rugby team and their families and friends from Uruguay slammed into the middle of the Andes Mountains east of Chile.
They had left home with much excitement on Oct 12th, but reports of bad weather in the Andes had put them down for an overnight stay in Mendoza.
When the fuselage finally came to rest, there were 32 survivors left from the 45 who had boarded the plane in such high spirits.Some were severely injured, many had broken bones and other injuries.
They made their home in the fuselage, erecting shelters around the plane to help them stay warm.
When you know from the beginning of a book that a plane full of young Rugby players crash lands in the snowy Andes mountains, and yet somehow some of those boys survive for weeks and weeks - you know it's not going to be a pretty story.
It's survival at its grittiest core, what do we humans really need to stay alive?
In order to stay alive, those are eaten too.
Would I do whatever it took to be with my children again?Regardless of what I would do, this story did make for some very interesting reading.
I would read this book on camping trips in 90+ degree temperatures, and it would never fail to whisk me away to the Andes.Here are my only two complaints....
These passages do at least let us spend some time with the families and let us know what they're going through, but of course the psychic accomplishes absolutely nothing and doesn't have a clue where the survivors are.
Every time we visit the families and the psychic we are being taken away from the real story.But these flaws are minor and do nothing to lessen the amazingness of the story.
Interesting, sad, and captivating. I had to read this for class in my senior year of high school. I have always been interested in books like these, of pure survival at all costs and the souls desperate scrabble to live. These men did what it took, and while it wrenched my stomach, as did many others, I understand why.
Ein eiserner Lebenswille beseelt die Männer und Frauen, und sie führen gemeinsam einen Überlebenskampf, der jede menschliche Vorstellungskraft übersteigt.Obwohl man die Geschichte dieses schrecklichen Ereignisses aus den Medien bereits kennt, war das Lesen dieses Tatsachenberichts schrecklich und hoffnungsvoll zugleich.
Es ist einfach unfassbar, wozu der Mensch in Notsituationen fähig ist, aber auch, das was die Psyche mitmachen musste, ging unter die Haut.
Ein anstrengendes Buch, was sich nicht in einem lesen konnte, weil das, was diese Menschen durchmachen mussten einfach unvorstellbar schlimm war.
Ich habe diese Eigenschaften nicht absichtlich unterschätzt, aber es würde vielleicht die Fähigkeit eines jeden Schriftstellers übersteigen, das auszudrücken, was die Jungen ihre eigenen Erfahrung nach durchmachten."
They determined to take their work more seriously, to be more devout in their religious observances, and to dedicate more time to their families."In a letter written by a father of one who did not survive the plane crash, is another take-home message."We invite every citizen of our country to spend some minutes in meditation on the immense lesson of solidarity, courage, and discipline which has been left to us by these boy in the hope that it will serve us all to overcome our mean egotism and petty ambitions, and lack of interest for our brothers."I'm sure these quotes can be echoed in many survival stories of our world.
This book is one of those novels that you will never forget.
It is a phenomenal writing piece based on a rugby team whose plane crashed when flying over the Andes Mountains.
This book will go down as one of my all-time favorite novels in the entire world.
Since it is a survival story, at any point in time something dramatic could change.
But if you can make it through the book until it ends I think everyone out there would be shocked at how perfect this piece is.
I liked this book for many reasons.
One reason that i liked this book was because throughout the whole book, there were a lot of cliffhangers that were left by the author.
This book was about a rugby team that was traveling to what i think was the Philippines, but i am not sure.
I do not want to spoil the ending so you will have to read the book to find out what happens.
I think it was a good all around book and i think that it wasn't hard to read and it was not that long of a book.
I read this back when it was fairly new... I would have thought that I'd retain more of the feeling I had at the time. What will anyone do when faced with death? How will humanity in general deal with starvation? I'd say "it remains to be seen" might be the lesson to be learned here.
Whenever I can't drag myself to the gym or finish some project, I think of these men crawling out of the Andes fueled by "matchstick pieces of flesh"
This was an amazing story of survival and perseverance. It sometimes got bogged down in too much detail but overall it was a thoroughly engrossing read. Copy provided by publisher and NetGalley
Dinner, anyone?
One of my favorites ever. This story has always touched my heart since I was a little girl.
It was fascinating to read about the survivors' behaviour after the rescue, how they sort of kept each other in check spiritually even years after the ordeal, how they could no longer stop themselves from ravenously binge-eating any food placed in front of them, and how sleeping in a regular comfortable bed did not allow them to sleep since they were so used to sleeping with their bodies in contortion.Piers Paul Read ends the book by admitting that the survivors were upset by his manuscript and lambasted him for not portraying their horrific situation accurately.
