https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11042.The_Diary_of_Ana_s_Nin_Vol_5
I had to keep in mind that it is a diary so I struggled to find continuity.
It was also hard to keep track of all the people in her life.
Still, there are many descriptions of her life experiences that are so unique they made me smile in awe, and the book is full of quote-worthy commentary.
Reading this felt like the surprising experience of talking to someone you wouldn't normally associate with, getting to know who they are, but also finding out that you have more in common than you could have imagined.
Me maravilla su amor por la escritura y su sensiblidada con el arte: la pintura, el teatro la música, etc hacen que en letras de ella cobren un efecto mágia, un efecto sueño.Revelador saber que ella al leer el diario de Virginia Woolf, no le provocó ninguna emoción ni la empujó al suicidio, en cambio la impulsó a seguir escribiendo sus propios diarios.
A mi Virginia me incitó a seguir leyendo y leyendo, y puede que hasta a escribir cuando leí "Cuarto Propio" y "Tres guineas", y ella, Anaïs, me realza como mujer, la más femenina y sensual y sobre todo como individuo artístico, Nunca se sabe para quien escribes ni que efecto puedes crear en quien te lee.
Escribe mujer, no dejes de hacerlo, decía Virginia.
I found this book at the local bookstore, so this was the first volume of her diaries that I read.
(I have also read parts of Delta of Venus which I wasn't crazy about.) I'm so happy to have found it because it is EASILY one of the most important books I have ever read.
Besides the fact that I'd do basically anything to have her life, I adore her descriptions and her mind.
She conveys such complex emotions and ideas so concisely, especially when it comes to life as an artist in the United States.
Anais Nin is my favorite writer and has had such an impact on me as an artist, writer, and woman in the world.
Her depth of understanding about human nature, her willingness to write her own insecurities, feelings, desires, and observations of the world and people around her, her gorgeous prose- they satisfy on so many levels.Anais Nin lived life on her own terms, and documented it in these magical, one of a kind diaries.
I have a personal story about how I was able to give back to her after she has given so much to me, but I cannot write about it here.
i think this is the one where anis moves to california, partially based on the recommendation of henry miller, who is chilling in big sur & doing a lot of watercolors at this point. that really cracks me up, in light of what a macho tool he was in the first volume of the diary. i wonder if he ever thought he'd be hanging around redwood trees painting watercolors. haha! meanwhile, anais is doing her thing, socializing with film industry types, surviving wildfires, & the like. this volume is a bit fuzzy in my memory.
A slog but I loved so much of it. Although she is kind of entitled and overly esoteric and a touch haughty, we should all be so lucky to look at the world and interact with it in the way she did.M
Gorgeous prose. I found it worth reading for the language, polished, jewel-like, rather than any profundity in the text. Still, it makes me want to read other parts of her diary.
Her series of six diaries are some of my favorite books of all time.
Ditto
I finally finished it. I was really into the book at the beginning and some how lost interest.
Anais Nin always makes me think ... and that is what EVERY writer should strive for.
lovely! she makes you yearn for whatever she describes, whatever she tastes, whatever she hears, whatever she tastes..
