https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338591.Tarzan_and_the_Lion_Man
Tarzan and Hollywood, what a match! Burroughs shows much of his tongue in cheek writing here. A good old fashioned fun read
Do yourself a favor and skip to about halfway through the book and start reading.
The first half of the book is dull as Burroughs recycles the same plot for the umpty-umpth time.
A safari full of Hollywood types gets in over their heads.
I wonder if this book could be called Burroughs Revenge.
He skewers Hollywood for what I suspect is his umbrage over what they did to Lord Greystoke.
At the end, Tarzan is rejected as the wrong type by the Hollywood geniuses when he is suggested to play the part of Tarzan in a new movie.
Not sure why the later Tarzan books have such a mediocre reputation. This one is really fun, with lots of satiric barbs at the film business. I liked the GMO gorillas as the villains and there is no mention of Jane. Tarzan's negative view of Hollywood is timeless.
This Tarzan story focuses mainly on a group of people from Hollywood who have come to Africa to film a movie.
They are attacked by a tribe of cannibals and the Arabs traveling with them kidnap the 2 women.
The women go on to get free of their kidnappers only to be kidnapped again by gorillas who speak english!
Tarzan rescues those who need rescue, then some time later goes to see Hollywood where, as John Clayton, he is cast for a bit part in a Tarzan film, after being told he "doesn't fit the part" to play Tarzan!
One of the most colorful Tarzan adventures, with action, humor, and character developments that kept me turning the pages. A fun story, where Burroughs mocks the Hollywood film industry that produced Tarzan movies at the expense of his source material's integrity. Loved this book!
It started out slow, but built from there and actually turned out to be quite a good book. It was science fiction mixed with humor and Tarzan goes Hollywood.
Unfortunately they have no idea of the conditions of the terrain and try to drive big equipment vehicles into the interior.This gets a little gruesome when the cannibals get involved, but not too detailed.
Otherwise it’s another complicated, but interesting romp through the jungle as everyone gets scattered, found by unknowns, rescued, reunited and lost again until Tarzan gathers them up and sends them home.Though the final chapter is interesting, it felt a little forced and like it was thrown in as a last minute thought.
And yet Burroughs has to include still another exact duplicate for Tarzan among the cast of characters.
Apparently someone - Tarzan's father or perhaps his cowardly cousin from very early in the series - had been spreading those Greystoke genes with abandon a few decades back.
Anyway, accept this story's faults and just enjoy another adventure with one of popular fiction's most iconic characters.
The story lines in the Tarzan series do not always succeed but the man himself - at least as written by Edgar Rice Burroughs - is invariably a fascinating and compelling figure unlike any other.
In this, the 17th Tarzan book, ERB wrote some great satire of Hollywood's version of Tarzan. A Hollywood crew has come to Africa to make a Tarzan-like movie with an actor who is the spitting image of the real Tarzan, physically. But they get in over their heads when they run into the Bansuto tribe and the Valley of Diamonds. So the real Tarzan has to rescue them. Great adventure!
A fun Tarzan adventure despite recycled plot elements. For me, though, the book loses a full star point rating due to the last chapter. It seems as if Burroughs wrote the last chapter - a full on mocking of Hollywood’s portrayal of Tarzan - several months after writing the main book, and he forgot which characters were which.
It's pulp boys' life stuff, but it's multi-layered, which appealed to my vain intelligence in 1968. Eugenics, castle intrigue, an adventure movie, talking apes, a visit to Hollywood, and Tarzan's feats amplified by by oohs and ahs; it's got it all.
One word: Homoerotic. Also who at Disney read this book and thought "this would make a great kids movie!"???
Enjoyed the unusual ending.
Ugh. Anyway, ERB was so annoyed with the bad casting and writing for the movies that he took on Hollywood in this book, sending a movie team to the jungle to film on location instead of on a back lot somewhere.
It might have been more interesting if I hadn't already read much the same stuff in the last few books.It really gets funny and over-the-top silly when (view spoiler)[John Clayton makes his way to Hollywood to see how it works for himself.
(hide spoiler)]You could see ERB's eyes twinkling when he wrote that part.For the Hollywood stuff it's a solid 4 to 5 stars but the gorillas drag it down.
Actually, ERB infused a lot of humor into the book, which helped the absurd elements of the story go down easier.
And it's true—Gorilla London was a little much...) At the end of the novel, Tarzan spends a few days in Hollywood, crashes a party, and is asked to try out for the role of "Tarzan" in the next Tarzan movie.
It did make me want to reread some of the earlier Tarzan books (this book was written during the not-as-good-as-the-older-ones part of the Tarzan series) in order to spend more time with the character.
Truth be told, Tarzan doesn't enter the plot until about a third of the way into this book, so I felt a little short-changed.
Burroughs is often playing it for laughs, if often rather heavy handedly, in this one, especially when satirizing Hollywood.A Hollywood film crew go to Africa, sadly here they are not very sympathetic to their native bearers, lashings, lots of use of the n-word etc.
Of course the star of the film bears an uncanny resemblance to Tarzan so theere's plenty of mistaken identity, which is compounded by the female star also having a double.
Tarzan ends up auditioning to play himself in a upcoming movie, of course he is not cast being "the wrong type."
It started out well enough, in the same vein as most of the Tarzan stories.
Hollywood is making a movie with a plot remarkably similar to Tarzan's own story.
The crew is hounded by hostile natives and the treachery of the Arabs before encountering yet another bizarre civilization in Africa.
It's all very fun, as most of these books are, until the final pages when the story takes a left turn; a wild girl from Africa is made into a Hollywood star and Tarzan visits California to see what all the fuss is about with the motion picture industry.
ERB is on a roll. Another great entry into the Tarzan canon. Because of the title I thought it was going to be a direct sequel to the previous book. Then I thought it was going to be a satirical farce about what used to be Hollywood's fascination with the ape man. Then it turned into a gritty jungle thriller complete with cannibalism, death and torture. At that point it takes a flying leap into creepy bizarro world and all of a sudden we're in a horror story.A great yarn. But ERB must have really hated Weissmuller.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Hollywood comes to the jungle and the stars and crew need Tarzan's help to survive. In this book, Edgar Rice Burroughs gives us lions, cannibals, the abduction of beautiful women, a Tarzan double, an evil geneticist, a valley of diamonds, and a lost city of Tudor gorillas. Finally, Tarzan visits Hollywood and gets a part in a Tarzan movie playing a white hunter opposite an adagio dancer who plays the man himself. There's a lot of repetition by now, but it's fun anyway.
The author really stretched believability in this novel where he wanders far from his character's basic beliefs and totally dismisses his past relationships. Includes avatar gorilla English speakers and Hollywood hijinks.
Tarzan and the Lion Man (Tarzan #17) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1933) (Fiction). Tarzan encounters a mad scientist with a city of talking gorillas and a Hollywood movie production that plans to make a movie about a heroic ape man. My rating: 6/10, finished 1973.
By this time, it seemed to me that ERB was kind of going through the motions with Tarzan. It's a good story, fast read, as he always wrote, but not as strong as some of his earlier stuff in the series or as many of his standalones.
Tarzan Book 17
Adventure
Hilariously cheesy, with a plot driven by action and scenery rather than believability. Highly recommended.
GREAT action and story!
read some time in 1982
