https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67035.Relic
It doesn’t matter that it may be full of clunky expository dialogue or stock characters or logic-defying plot twists; as long as it’s taut and tense and keeps the pages turning, I want it in my literary gullet.
I charred them to perfection, slathered them with ketchup, and just about swallowed them whole.Relic was exactly what I was in the mood for: a dark and mysterious page-turning thriller, one set IN A MUSEUM, no less (I’m hard pressed to think of a more perfect setting)—one that incorporated history and myth in equal measure, and one, due to the date of its publication, that didn’t rely TOO much on new-fangled technology to play deus ex machina (with one notable exception that I shan’t spoil).
”Every sixty to seventy million years or so, life starts getting very well adapted to its environment. Too well adapted, perhaps. There is a population explosion of the successful life forms. Then, suddenly a new species appears out of the blue. It is almost always a predatory creature, a killing machine. It tears through the host population, killing, feeding, multiplying. Slowly at first, then ever faster.” The Amazon has always been an attractive source for exploration for the scientific commu
The crates of specimens from the expedition make their way back to the museum in New York, but the members of the expedition join the ranks of the many missing explorers and scientists who have disappeared in the mountains, the rivers, the jungles, and the deserts of the world.
One of the authors, Douglas Preston, worked in the American Museum of Natural History in New York for seven years so that experience lends so much authenticity to not only the culture of the museum, but also the characters.
Preston also wrote a book called Dinosaurs in the Attic about his time spent working in a museum.

This is another book (series of books) I was introduced to by my late wife (we were married 34 years before she passed so there were quite a few books we ended up sharing, sometimes to the surprise of each of us.
You come to know him and like him (even if it would be a lot like being friends with Superman).This book can be enjoyed on several different levels and you can think about it or not pretty much as the mood hits you.So, no spoilers, a threat from the jungle invades the museum....
This novel is one of the few that my wife and I still discuss on a rather regular basis, even after all this time.
Even though Aloysius Pendergast was still sharing the lead role(s) with Margo Green and Vincent D’Agosta when Relic was published (he made the series truly his own by book 3: The Cabinet of Curiosities), he is as endearingly eccentric and competent here as he is in any of the later instalments.(3) Creature feature.
I still recommend this novel to everybody I discuss books with.
Yes, not everybody likes it, but if you are going to fall for Relic, you’re going to fall big time.
I loved Relic and definitely plan to read more books in this series.
Relic was entertaining and suspenseful from the beginning to the end!
And the mystery behind the origin of the creature was well thought out.The setting of the dark chambers of the museum was fantastic for a creature to stalk its victims!The book is packed with cool science descriptions and a well-written narrative.The dialogue is realistic and the characters were great.
It’s a perfect blend of characters that you will love and hate.For entertainment level alone, this is well worth the read and I will be investing in more books written by these authors.
3.5 stars rounded up because I liked the characters.Well...
Starting this, I felt like I was reading a Jurassic Park knockoff.
The museum setting was fantastic -- it really lent itself to the vibe of claustrophobia which inevitably upped the suspense factor of the book.
The characters themselves were fantastic.
Smithback stood out and I hope we see him again; I was really annoyed by him at first, but then when everything went to hell and he wound up hiding under a table stuffing his face, I was just like...
But I'm sure we'll see more of him as the series goes along, and I'm content with that.
A good mix of science and suspense. Reminds me of Michael Crichton. Very thrilling - lots of good twists that I did not see coming.
This silly book turned out to be one big, over the top, cheesy, load of fun!
I’ve read some reviews where people called The Relic a mystery horror (and I guess in some ways it is) but I tend to look at it as a crazy, disaster, monster film.
This book has so many clichés, but they are fun clichés.
So if you want to read a disaster, monster book that doesn’t take itself too seriously, I think you would enjoy this.
I'll definitely be reading another Pendergast book.
Several of my coworkers have raved about the Pendergast series, and despite feeling daunted by the number of books on the list, I decided to check out the first one.
FBI Agent Pendergast has been tracking the suspicious killings and works with scientists at the museum to catch the beast.
I was thoroughly entertained and am looking forward to more adventures with Agent Pendergast.Favorite Quote"You see, when someone says 'it's impossible,' I have this very bad habit, I can't help myself, I immediately contradict that person in the most positive terms possible.
A very bad habit, but one that I find hard to break."
RELIC is the book that launched the brilliant Agent Pendergast series. As with all Preston/Child books, this one offers plenty of science, adventure, and mystery. The Pendergast series is a testament to genuine genius on the part of these two amazing authors.
I've never rode a rollercoaster because am too chicken to ride one. While reading this book, I said to myself, "Is this is how a rollercoaster ride would feel? The extent of thrill boderdering on... horror?"What an adrenaline rush has been, this ride I mean read! :DEnough said. I am off to read the sequel(s).
Relic is a perfect example of the vast sea of things that the human mind doesn't know, and of fear and panic over a monster unseen. Gripping, violent and frightening, this book is disturbing and unsettling but very well-written.
This was recommended to me by several visitors to my site, but I'm sorry folks, I simply couldn't finish it. Cardboard, cliched characters and a monster on a rampage in a museum don't quite add up to a great read. I gave it a good effort, the quick readability of it got me halfway through it but I don't care how it ends or who lives or dies. I'm moving on.
Some books come into your life exactly at the right time for you to welcome them with open arms.
I wanted fast-paced action, and I got it.
I wanted half-real/half-madeup pseudo-science kind of a la Crichton, and I got it.
I wanted scary, and I got that by the bucketload.
I wanted at least one great character to get to know and care about and have fun hanging out with, and I got him—I mean, Pendergast is amazing and his personality is so endearing I’d have a hard time finding reasons not to adore him.
(edited to note – I still don’t know their genre really – horror/mystery/thriller??) Now fast forward to this year, after I bought a lot more of their books from a friend, where I was finally spurred on by a group read, where everyone was digging into Relic, and now here we finally are.If you were like me and had seen the movie but not read the book, expect big differences.
The close wraps up the book with a wallop ending I didn’t see coming.I’d heard about what a great character Pendergast is – and he proved to be all that and more (except my misgivings about big game hunting stories).
3.5 stars.Relic marks a promising start in my attempt to read more crimes/mysteries/thrillers aside from Dan Brown’s Robert Langdon books.This novel has all the necessary ingredients to satisfy the requirements of a page-turning thriller.
The story started with two separate Prologues that allude to the potential source of the mysterious murders in the museum.
Introduction of the main characters did slow down the first quarter of the book to a certain extent before the investigation went full swing with the arrival of Agent Pendergast.
The second was the character of Aloysius Pendergast, the charming, brilliant, FBI agent with a Southern accent and an open-mind ready to follow the fqcts into the realm of the bizarre if that is where they are pointing (keeping with the X-files analogy, he is like a cross between Scully's practical, skepticism and Mulder's imaginative deduction).
Well, coincidentally (or is it?) only days before a new exhibition is set to open at the museum (called interestingly enough, the "Superstition" Exhibit), a series of grisly and bizarre murders takes place and it is up to our group of researchers, historians, curators, cops....and Pendergast to solve the mystery.
Whew!
I just finished Relic and it was mind blowing.
The pacing and atmosphere make this an intense read like nothing else.
The story is simple & straightforward - in the words of Hudson (Aliens), its a bug hunt.
But what a bug hunt.
I am still getting over it.I have seen the movie before and it is quite forgettable.
The book is way better - in terms of characterization, the dialogues as well as the sense of creeping dread one gets as the book progresses.In conclusion, it is a great read.
My blog has more reviews like this one.
MINI REVIEW: A chilling thriller that takes place mostly in a colossal museum in NYC. Don't be fooled if you hate museums. It's still very interesting with a combination of horror, sleuthing and melodrama. Characters are mostly vivid and while one could argue several plot points were predictable they were still satisfying. BTW, the movie is a terribly poor representation of the book. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus; STORY/PLOT POINTS: A minus to A; CREEPINESS/HORROR: B plus; OVERALL GRADE: A minus to A; WHEN READ: May to July 2010.
(Ok, ok, I look away a lot.) The traditional classic horror scenarios of being trapped and hunted down one by one on a moving train or in a haunted house or in a skyscraper or in an abandoned psychiatric hospital, or lost in a jungle or on an island being chased by a vengeful magical undying monster - ah!
But the number one top horror location has to be....the never-to-be-topped classic Museum of Natural History!
I bet, gentle reader, like me, you LOVE museums of the dead!
During the day, natural history museums all seem so respectably academic and culturally thought-provoking, displaying all of those objects so artistically.
**re-read** (third time) CD special S/L edition. My first Preson/Child novel--the one that started it all. Still a favorite after all these years!
I had forgotten how much action there was in this book as I hadn't read it since its first publication in 1995, when I was introduced to Agent Pendergast.
The first part of the book starts out a little slow as it provides the back drop for the story and then the last half of the story the action begins.
It also likes humans, but not to get friendly with them, but to add them to its snack list.
I am still giving the book five stars like I did before and I will be continuing the series.
Finds cursed tribal idol.
Relic finds it's way to a New York Museum.
Then, Whittlesey came across this figurine, and some other objects, packed them up, and sent them back to the Museum.Carnage ensues in the corridors and deep dark places of the museum.
When the crap hits the fan it is closely followed by intestines and brains and other wet meaty bits.“It was eating him,” said Cuthbert, “eating the brains.
I remember the movie when it came out and enjoyed that for what it was.
And I liked this enough to give the next book a shot at some stage.
However I do hope some folks discovered the writing of messieurs Preston & Child because in my humble opinion they are the current best writers in thriller/adventure/fantastic novel.This book is about a problem in a large New York museum on the brink of opening a new, large & important exhibition.
(Their solo-works have a lesser attraction for me)It started my fandom with these writers and I have all books from their collaboration collected.
They tend to be a blind buy, having already pre-ordered their next book.
Years ago, for whatever dumb reason I had at the time, I read books six and seven of this series and enjoyed them both even if I didn't fully understand a lot of the background of the characters and the secondary plotlines.
I'm glad I stopped where I did but not happy with myself that it took the better part of a decade before I went back to the beginning.
Here I am and here we are and it is easy to say that this is the (re)beginning of a beautiful relationship.
Well, I couldn’t put this down. I liked it. It read very differently from Riptide, which I loved so perhaps there were some unwarranted expectations? At times I found myself bored, reading as a chore. At times I found some dialogue and character introspection “cheesy”. However, the last 150 pages or so made it all worth it. There was excitement and fear, comradery and disdain. I am looking forward to getting to know Pendergast better through the rest of the series.
This Jurassic Park knockoff is ridiculous but fun, with a brain-eating jungle critter roaming the interior of the American Natural History Museum looking for curators and police officers to prey upon. FBI Agent Pendergast is a breath of fresh air among the stock characters and the story takes an uptick once he's introduced around page 80. Turn off brain, eat popcorn, enjoy.
Scary.
Book managed to keep me guessing who was going to survive and who was going to be lunch.Brainy filler (pun!)--I loved the backstory, setting, scientific explanation and detail for everyting.
The anthropologist in me was purrrrrrrring like a kitten.A bit long-winded, but very good.Relic would have gotten 4 stars, but one of the supporting protagonists was a big game/ trophy hunter.
So I'm gonna do that thing where I don't support the book and dock it ---even a work of fiction--- for that kind of content.
Sorry, Relic, you're really good as a thriller otherwise.
It’s the first of Special Agent Pendergast series and while I wasn’t all that impressed with him, I like his manner and can’t wait to see what he will do or say in future books.
The premise, somewhat like that of Jurassic Park, is that nature does some weird things to adapt.
Honestly, I would read this book again.
I haven’t seen the movie and will probably keep it that way.
My husband says he has seen the movie and read the book.
I am in the middle of Jurassic Park, now..
but so far this book held my attention far more.
