https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444304.The_Field_Guide
I'm reading these books for the second time.
But it's been years since I picked them up, and it's the first time I'm reading them with my son.
And both of those things make a huge difference to my experience.First, and perhaps most importantly, my little boy likes them.
What's more, they borrow from the traditional lore, and expand on it in interesting ways.What's more I *really* like the illustrations.
I'd forgotten the books were illustrated, and that really makes it nicer when reading them to my boy.
Things that never occurred to me the first time I was reading them.
This was such a fun little book! Short and sweet, quirky and magical, loved it! I've always been a fan of anything to do with fairies and folklore, so I'm definitely pumped to delve more into this exciting world!
They discover they may not be the only inhabitants after stumbling upon a hidden attic with a field guide full of details about fairies.
Crazy things start happening to the kids, much to the bewilderment - and frustration - of their mother, and the kids must figure out what (or who) is behind the mischief.So I asked my daughter how many stars she would give it if 5 was "one of my favorite books" and 1 was "I hated it." She said 4.
Kind of a serious topic, but it doesn't give any details.
Could he really solve anything by himself?" Ironically, the authors seem to underestimate the problem-solving abilities of the kids that are reading these books.
Not to mention the first book ends with hardly an introduction; breaking the series into a five-book set feels like a cheap trick to make a profit, and I think the overall flow of the story suffers because of it.The Chronicles are not without merit; there is some enjoyable dialogue and the illustrations are terrific.
I think the series could be truly engaging if the authors focused more on the story, rather than on spelling out the moral behind it.
Just your typical 'move into an old creepy house, weird stuff starts happening, one of the kids gets blamed, and then they find a book that explains the existence of fairies/faeries/fey which solves their problems...
while at the same time causing many more problems'.
Happens every day.
Also, I'm no expert in the sport of fencing, but I'm pretty sure that they don't call the weapon a sword, and someone who is serious about fencing, as Mallory apparently is, would know that.
I think that this book reads a little young, also.
Still, this is probably a fun and cute story for kids.
I read the Spiderwick Chronicles back when I was quite young, maybe eight or nine.
My sister and I read the crap out these books (we must have read them 15 times, no joke) and I've been wanting to revist this series and the wonderful fantasy world that Holly and Tony created for awhile now but I've finally gotten around to it.The writing partnership of Holly Black and Tony DiTerlizzi is remarkable and this series is by far some of the most well written literature that I've ever read.The three main characters, Jared, Simon, and Mallory, are so relatable and realistic.
I remember reading and loving this book when I was 10 or 11years old.
So when I saw it in one of my local charity shops I immediately bought it.
I definitely don't regret it.
I think I loved it just as much as my child self.
I like that there are drawings throughout the book which are absolutely gorgeous by the way.
:) It follows the adventure of two brothers and a sister into the magical world right beside the house they live in.
There are descriptions of many magical creatures - like their appearance, habits, etc.
ممتعة لأقصى حد انتهيت منها بأقل من ساعتين المراجعة ستكون عند انتهائي من الجزء الخامس والأخير منها
Las crónicas de Spiderwik nos cuenta la historia de Simón, Jared y Mallory, tres hermanos que se mudan con su madre a una casa de la época victoriana en medio de un lugar aparato de la ciudad.
Volver a estos libros después de años me trae un sin fin de recuerdos de aquella primera vez que lo leí.
En conclusión, pienso que la historia es simpática, sin embargo, quiero descubrir algo mejor con los siguientes libros, a pesar de que ya los leí hace tiempo y no recuerdo a la perfección lo que sucede.
About a year and a half ago I found this entire five book series at a thrift store and decided to buy them.
This first book is about the Grace children: Mallory, Jared, and Simon.
My sister and I read this first book together and plan to continue reading the series in the coming days/weeks.
We're excited to share these books with our six and seven year old niece and nephew, who we think will really enjoy the story and humor.
The illustrations are also really great and should work well when trying to engage younger children in the story.
I read this for research purposes.
I want to write children's books, and mine turn out too weird, so I thought I'd read more children's books and get a hang of the voice and style.
I've watched the movie, and the first book is...what?
It's such an adorably cute book!
I mean, she was out  shopping for groceries  and got mad at them for being out of bed at night and in the kitchen.
They were looking for a squirrel in the walls, and goodness sakes, what type of grocery shop is open at night.
I might be out of the target age range for this series just a wee bit buuuuut better late than never.
Very cute! I can see why kids like them. I'm sure I'll end up buying the complete set for mine!
I like this book for kids (8-11). It's spooky at times as you follow two twin boys and their sister in a creepy, old house. Enjoy!
Reto #30 PopSugar 2018: Un libro con personajes que son gemelos.
3 / 5 starsThe Spiderwick Chronicles movie had been a family favourite in my household for years, my sister and I watched the movie a ridiculous amount of times and yet, I never read the series.
This story follows the Grace family, who were forced to move into the house of a crazy Great Aunt when they couldn't afford to live in New York after the divorce.
The three siblings; Jared and Simon, nine year old twins and their older sister Malory, thirteen, were perfect.
I remember Aunt Lucinda was always a favourite of mine, so I can't wait until she appears!
A fun and quick read.
เดียวนีกลายเปนคนชอบอานหนังสือเดกทีมีภาพประกอบไปแลว สำหรับสไปเดอรวิกนีเคยดูหนังเมือหลายปีกอน ชอบนะ พอมาอานแลวรูสึกวาหนังสือนีเลาเรืองแบบกระชับมาก ไมยืดเยือ ภาพประกอบกสวย ใหอารมณลึกลับนาติดตาม ติดแคตรงเนือเรืองเลมแรกสันมาก เปนการปูพืนไปเลมตอๆไป แตอานแลวติดใจจนตองหยิบเลมตอขึนมาอานทันที(view spoiler)[จาเรด ไซมอนและมัลลอรีไดยายเขาไปอยูอาศัยในบานของปาลูซินดา เดกๆไดคนพบลิฟตเลกๆทีนำพาจาเรดไปสูหองลับทีไมมีประตู จาเรดไดอานปริศนาทีถูกเขียนเอาไว และเมือเขาเดินขึนบันไดไปยังหองใตหลังคาและไขปริศนา จาเรดกไดพบกั
เดี๋ยวนี้กลายเป็นคนชอบอ่านหนังสือเด็กที่มีภาพประกอบไปแล้ว สำหรับสไปเดอร์วิกนี่เคยดูหนังเมื่อหลายปีก่อน ชอบนะ พอมาอ่านแล้วรู้สึกว่าหนังสือนี่เล่าเรื่องแบบกระชับมาก ไม่ยืดเยื้อ ภาพประกอบก็สวย ให้อารมณ์ลึกลับน่าติดตาม ติดแค่ตรงเนื้อเรื่องเล่มแรกสั้นมาก เป็นการปูพื้นไปเล่มต่อๆไป แต่อ่านแล้วติดใจจนต้องหยิบเล่มต่อขึ้นมาอ่านทันที(view spoiler)[จาเร็ด ไซม่อนและมัลลอรี่ได้ย้ายเข้าไปอยู่อาศัยในบ้านของป้าลูซินด้า เด็กๆได้ค้นพบลิฟต์เล็กๆที่นำพาจาเร็ดไปสู่ห้องลับที่ไม่มีประตู จาเร็ดได้อ่านปริศนาที่ถูกเขียนเอาไว้ และเมื่อเขาเดินขึ้นบันไดไปยังห้องใต้หลังคาและไขปริศนา จาเร็ดก็ได้พบกับหนังสือของอาร์เธอร์ สไปเดอร์วิก ในนั้นรวบรวมเนื้อหาเกี่ยวกับแฟรี่ ทีแรกไม่มีใครเชื่อจาเร็ดหลังจากมัลลอรี่ตื่นขึ้นมาและผมของเธอถูกผูกติดกับหัวเตียง รวมถึงห้องครัวที่ถูกทำลายจนพินาศจาเร็ดเชื่อว่านั่นเป็นฝีมือของบ็อกการ์ดที่โมโหเมื่อพวกเขาได้ไปทำลายบ้านของมันที่อยู่ใต้ฝาผนัง ดังนั้นจาเร็ดจึงสร้างบ้านให้บ็อกการ์ดขึ้นมาใหม่และเอาไปไว้ในห้องที่ต้องขึ้นไปทางลิฟต์เท่านั้น หลายวันผ่านไปเด็กๆทั้งสามกลับไปยังห้องนั้นและได้พบกับคนแคระพร้อมคำเตือนให้พวกเขารีบทำลายหนังสือเล่มนั้นทิ้งซะ ! (hide spoiler)]
I love that this book takes the question of fairies and brownies and pixies seriously, it gives this story its power.
I love the setting: the rambling old house out in the country, the secret room, the shadowy feeling that something is watching...And I love the format of this series, with the uneven edges to the pages, the small size of the books.
They just feel cool.
This is the first book of the series, and it starts off strong.
Subsequent books in the series were less interesting to me, I think this is a series you need to read all of in one fell swoop.
This had everything a children's book should have: imagination. This was really great!
As I said in an earlier comment, I love the size and feel of this small book.
I love books you can hold in your hands, feel and smell the paper, books you can caress.
It's just such a lovely size; I could hold it in one hand whilst I read.
The story would also have captivated me as a young girl: three children and their newly-divorced mom move, out of necessity, into an older relative's practically abandoned Victorian home, where weird things happen and a mystery unfolds.
For fast readers such as myself, it might take 20-30 minutes to read this book.
But despite being only about 100 pages, I totally loved the story of the Grace siblings.
I read this for the first time when I was 8??
I don't really remember actually, but I loved these magical adventures then and still do.
If you know anyone who is a reluctant reader, or prefers shorter books then I think this may be the book/series for them.
And if they like fairies and magical creatures, even better, because this series is chock full of them!
3,5 Sterne - Ist zwar niedlich erzählt, aber grundsätzlich passiert in dem Buch extrem wenig und es endet ziemlich unbefriedigend. So richtig rund fand ich die Sache nicht und kann leider nicht wirklich den Hype um diese Reihe verstehen ...
The story is about the Grace Children: Mallory who is 13 and the 9 year-old twins Jared and Simon.
The house is big enough for Mallory to practice her fencing, Simon to keep his stray animals he loves and for Jared to ....well...
One day Jared - comes across a book by Arthur Spiderwick - and it turns out to be a field guide to Faeries!
The illustrations are really what drew me into the book, but the story was good enough to keep me reading the other 4 books in the series.
Uno de esos libros entrañables que se pueden leer a cualquier edad, muy bien escrito, sencillo y ameno, y con ese ambiente de fantasía y magia, en una casa misteriosa, tan maravilloso. Me ha gustado mucho, no podía parar de leer.
Loved this book so much. Can't wait to read the rest of the series. Check out my review on my booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/peterlikesbooks
Обожавам тази поредица! Това са книгите, които ме накараха да обичам четенето, затова са и толкова специални за мен :)
Very soon after moving in, strange occurrences begin to happen and the children dedicate themselves to solving the mystery.This is a well written introduction to the series and the style and illustrations really add to the feel of the story.
This isn't a very long book so naturally it didn't take too long to read, that being said however, I did find it difficult to put down.
I think that kids of all ages would be able to follow the story and enjoy solving the mystery along with the children in the story.
It was an enjoyable read and I am looking forward to book 2 once I purchase it.
Debo decir, sin vergüenza alguna, que soy muy fan de la película Las Crónicas de Spiderwick. Es por eso mismo que he decidido leer los libros. De momento la cosa me está gustando bastante. Las ilustraciones le dan un toque fantástico a la historia. Ya explicaré qué me ha parecido la saga en general en el último tomo, puesto a que son bastante cortitos, y no creo que tarde mucho en leerlos todos.
