https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397876.Domain
Best in the trilogy of James Herbert's horror genre. I like the beginning where the main protagonist; a motor cycle courier; follows a civil servant who calmly walks among the chaos with purpose. Everybody else is running to and fro during a nuclear attack in London and this smartly dressed man nonchalantly disappears down a tunnel and bangs on a matal door. He disappears into a bunker and the courier crashes in behind him...the rest is an epic story which is the last in the Rats trilogy. I really enjoyed this book in my youth.🐯👍👍🐯
And this is where the impact starts to wane, the story material had obviously been presented in the previous books, the blood and guts had all been described before and so on, if anything this book was a victim of its own success.
Now do not think that the impact is gone, far from it you just need to read the stats that say that we are all only feet away from a rat ay any time.
I think the time of this books writing Herbert was about to embark on his next part of his career where blood and guts would be replaced to a certain extent with implied terror and paranoia.
The following quotes relate the highlights of a section where a protagonist waking up in hospital room in an underground shelter which is suddenly being flooded and invaded by mutant rats.***Bryce was slowly becoming aware that something more was wrong, lying there in the subdued lighting of the sick bay with other ailing survivors, listening to the screams and shouts beyond the closed door, the strange rushing sound, the lapping of water around the cot beds inside the medical room itself.
Still helping Webber keep Bryce on his feet with one hand, Farraday reached out for the woman with the other, grabbing one arm as she began to sink again, and pulling her over to him.
This may be because Herbert chooses to take us away from a regular world setting, opting instead to unleash his rodents upon the survivors of a first wave nuclear strike - although the nineteen eighties were doubtless a time when people contemplated such catastrophe, and this story would have been perfectly fitting in the time it was written, it just didn't sit quite right among certain other dated aspects of the book.
First published back in 1984, James Herbert’s novel ‘Domain’ formed the third and final full length novel to his classic ‘rats’ trilogy (although a graphic novel entitled ‘The City’ was later released in 1993 which followed on with the storyline).Incorporating a formula that should have guaranteed to produce nothing short of a classic splatterpunk novel from the godfather of the subgenre; not only was Herbert laying down the long-awaited third part to his hugely successful ‘Rats’ series, but he was also once again visiting the post-apocalyptic setting that was so well realised within his 1975 novel ‘The Fog’ (and then later again in his 1996 novel ’48).The tale begins with the unleashing of five nuclear weapons upon the busy streets of England’s capital city of London.
With Domain, we deal with the monstrous creatures following the end of the world as it was once known.Domain may be considered dated by some, as it deals with what was a fear in the past.
They appear slowly, creeping in to add additional layers of horror to the story.Moreover, James Herbert continues as he has throughout the rest of the series – with each additional book, the rats become more.
By the end, we get to see what the series has been building towards throughout, we get to see just how creepy James Herbert can make the creatures.Without a doubt, Domain was my favourite of The Rats trilogy.
Rats, rats everywhere, giant mutant rats as big as dogs...
there are these giant mutant rats leftover from Herbert's previous two novels to deal with.
Setting the story in a post apocalyptic world lets Herbert free himself from any of the kind of plausibility boundaries that held the previous two volumes in the Rat trilogy back.
Herbert also forgoes the salacious matters that caused the earlier novels to wander a little.This Centipede Press edition follows the original 1985 US text while most versions still in print follow later revisions that, well, have more words, but aren't necessarily better.
Loved it!!! Best book of the trilogy, non stop, edge of your seat thrilling action and gore....all hope for humanity dwindling with every page turn. I LIKE!
I used to be able to say I had never read a horror novel that made me want to stop reading because it was so dark until I read this novel.
James Herbert is, quite simply, the most effective horror author to ever come down the pike and "Domain" is the grimmest arrow in his quiver.
Describing the book to a friend, I told them: "Well, it starts off with World War III, and then things get worse from there." Radiation poisoning?
Check.
Check.
Double check.
Oh, check, indeed.Don't say I didn't warn you.
Hail James Herbert, the true king of horror.
Then the rats arrive, bigger, hungrier and meaner than ever and things go downhill for the survivors very fast!This book is better in every way than its predecessors and could be read in isolation in truth.
However reading all three gives you the ongoing story of the evolution of the Rats and the twists this takes are genuinely shocking.Herbert's style may be a bit pulpy for some and some of his characters nothing more than stereotypes but like many great Hollywood films, what it lacks in depth it more than makes up for in unrelenting thrills.
What's worse than one of the most densely populated cities in the world being terrorised by mutant man eating black rats?How's about one of the most densely populated cities in the world being terrorised by mutant man eating giant black rats after a nuclear strike?!!Herbert ended a great trilogy in one of the most devastating horror novels I have ever read, combining two nightmares to create one in which desperate survivors don't have a hope in hell.
The last pages of this novel had my heart pounding!
I have to say DOMAIN is the only book that made me physically ill while I was dipping into it - I've never found the nerve to read it all the way through yet.Not because of the rats (or The Rats?) but because of the nuclear war premise.
I was a teenager of the Cold War, and expected never to make it to 1990 without going up in nuclear ash.
Programmes like THREADS by the BBC and my research into fallout and the effects of nuclear war still tell me the best way to go would be quickly {shudder}.Which is where DOMAIN comes in with its Nightmare Fuel.
Once again James Herbert proves his talent for writing in this thrilling conclusion to his Rats trilogy. Combining apocalyptic themes with giant rodents, it's an unlikely yet chilling story of man vs. mice.
This sequel has major changes for the series, the first being that is an apocalyptic tale featuring the rats, but not starring them, the second is that this sucker is twice as long at 482 pages and honestly it shows.
Too much of the book is a lot of boring characters hiding in a secret government fallout shelter and becoming angry at one another.
I refuse to categorize the main protagonist, Culver, as a protagonist as he is a nothing character, the worst in the series.
the things I liked about the first are barely here, no social commentary, barely any rats until the end, and a minimal amount of side characters who are doomed but had great backstories.
So yes, a vast improvement.Description and describing of certain things were also impeccable to the point my stomach was badly churning at some points and I would have to throw the book down for an hour or so to re-remember how to breathe.Even the ending was decent, but that was probably because I spent the majority of the time wondering how the hell it was going to end, because there honestly seems to be absolutely no hope for the characters at all.Herbert is a brilliant writer and certainly knows how to keep you on the edge of your seat, as well as being able to pull a multitude of emotions out of you that you weren't sure you could ever express.
After two fairly similar (but enjoyable) books in the 'Rats' series, it was difficult to see where James Herbert could go with the idea next and not repeat the same formula, but he managed it, and managed it with style!It's no spoiler to let slip here that the book is set in a post-nuclear London (the opening of the novel begins in spectacular fashion with the attack itself), and is focused around a group of survivors in the aftermath.
I've always been a fan of post apocalyptic fiction and I think this is the first example of the genre that I read.
The pace slows a little after the opening spectacle but this is mostly a good thing as it gives you a chance to get to know the protagonist and supporting characters a little.
Just as the book feels like it might start to get a bit bogged down, it's all go again and from this point onwards it hardly stops.
If you like your horror gory, or you're a fan of post apocalypse fiction then this is a must read book.
Unnerving Magazine ReviewAs with many classics, and don’t dare suggest the Rats series is anything but, you’ve got some mental hoops to jump.
Climb over these altogether, or note them and move on, and you’ve got a pretty fun ride.Domain is the third and final novel of the series –there is a part four in the form of a graphic novel.
Given this fact, I wondered if there was any steam left in the series before I finally got around to reading this one.
And the rats are creepers worth reading about.Almost as good as the original.
This is one book you don't want to cheat and read the ending first as it will ruin the whole read.
If you've got good self control and don't read the ending first this book will have a good twist (even saying that gives too much away) but just forget I said that.
If you don't like reading about yucky rat gizzards and the end of humanity as we know it (in a plausible context) then don't read this book ;)
This is the final installment of the Rats trilogy (the others of which I haven't actually read) and finds London being destroyed in a nuclear attack, resulting in destruction, carnage and a race for any below ground structure that may offer shelter.
As such those who survived the initial blasts were then terrorised by the black furred terrors that live below ground, away from the glare of the sun.
Herbert combines the terror of the nuclear age with the traditional horror that accompanies rats and their potential to overrun civilisation (or in this case what's left of it) to create a fast paced and disturbing tale of survival.

Such a fun story!
You know what is better than rats?
Rats and Nuclear Holocaust!
This story starts with the big bang and keeps dealing punches the whole time.
We get the action hero (Culver), the gov't man (Dealey), and the constant damsel in distress (Kate).
No real complaints here except the length and the portrayal of Kate as completely helpless and in constant need of saving.
I know the book is older, but I expect better writing of female characters.
They don't advance the story but they are brutal clever and even funny!
Weirdly, this is the book which satisfies most and least in the same time. Herbert has developed a lot as an author and has presented a chilling and believable post apocalyptic future, populated by few, but well developed characters. Because of this however, the intensity of the original novel "The Rats" is missing. "Domain" is a strong entry into the series, but would have been better as a spin-off rather than a conclusion of the series.
I had forgotten how truly good this book was. It had been a number of years since I read it last but it reminded me how good James Herbert is in the horror genre. One of my favourite books
Cannot fault this book, James Herbert was the master of this genre even before he became famous
In parts horrific and frightening, I still managed to sleep at night after reading it.
Mit "Die Ratten" hat James Herbert einen Klassiker des Tierhorrors geschaffen, "Die Brut" war nur ein müder Abklatsch, aber der Abschluss der Trilogie - "Domain" - bietet einen krönenden Abschluss.Schon der Auftakt ist toll: In London herrscht das Chaos.
James Herbert geht von der ersten Seite in die Vollen: Das Tempo ist hoch, die Szenen wechseln Schlag auf Schlag.
Was bei anderen Autoren mindestens ein halbes Buch verschlingt, ist bei Herbert allerdings nur der Einstieg.
Das ergibt eine ganz neue Dimension des Horrors.
Gerade die Frage, wer überlebt und wer nicht, stellt sich leider nie.
Just few survivals , ..Steve Culver ((Pilot))Alex Dealy ((Govt man)) Fairbank,Ellison((Engineers))and Kate reach Kingsway nuclear shelter after a long struggle from different part of the city.Injured and shocked by the nuclear attack, they were advised to stay inside the shelter for few weeks until they get a clear off siren from the heavy radiation fall out, from the Government.
Steve Culver and Alex Dealy reach the kingsway Shelter by underground railway tunnels, and while they are running for life ,they are shocked to find giant sized vermin rats killing the people who are hiding underground with their claws and razor sharped teeth.
But to add that sinister twist, once the survivors pour in to the underground, they are met by another group of survivors - the Rats.The two storylines are interwoven well, with our group of heroes bouncing from one to another in a bid to have something even more horrific happen to them.
As usual, there is the plucky but likely to scream a lot heroine, the 'every-man' hero who can fly helicopters and the slightly bumbling authority figure who denies what is happening.
There follows a sequence of set pieces, typical of Herbert, but they wear a bit thin and this section of the novel goes on for too long.
In the middle part, our survivors emerge into the ruins and make their way through the city to a second shelter, in which they hope to find authorities, guidance, and protection.
These were my favourite chapters, and I wish the whole book had been more about the apocalypse and less about the rats.
Unfortunately, we then enter a third act that's not much different to the first, and the novel feels like it's treading water.
