https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275912.My_Years_with_General_Motors
It's more a business history of the early years of General Motors, from the viewpoint of its most famous executive Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation, and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (Charles Kettering was a pioneering GM engineer).Sloan instituted and oversaw many of GM's trademark features, such as the divisions, the differential pricing for each car so that one division wouldn't cannibalize sales from another, the careful balance between centralization and decentralization, the used-car trade-in, the dealerships, and the idea of company financing.
Written in a practical, matter-of-fact way, Sloan does not deliver a business how-to or a doctrine to follow, he simply explains the how and the why of various business decisions he was faced with during the take-off of the automobile industry in the early 20s.
An interesting discussion of centralisation vs decentralisation and other management decisions is interspersed with a thorough history of GM in its early days and the development of the industry until the 50s.
It is interesting reading this book knowing that shortly after Sloan's retirement, the Japanese auto industry took off, exposing the inefficiencies in the GM model of production by focusing on quality above all else.
Классика менеджмента, СЕО General Motors об управлении корпорацией
Alfred was a true pioneer of his time in building the discipline of management and his approach is just as applicable now as it was in the early 1900s.Below are key lessons in the form of excerpts that I found particularly insightful from this must read classic.1- "I feel that a proper balance can and must necessarily be established in the course of time between the activities of any particular Operation and that of all our Operations together and as I see the picture at the moment no better way or even as good a way has yet been advanced as to ask those members of each organization who have the same functional relationship to get together and decide for themselves what should be done where coordination is necessary, giving such a group the power to deal with the problem where it is felt that the power can be constructively applied.
Bill Gates told Fortune, “My Years with General Motors is probably the best book to read if you want to read only one book about business.” This book really is not a “how to book”.
It is more a book about what Sloan and his contemporaries at General Motors did and why they did it.
He also explains when and how General Motors moved away from decentralization and when and how they moved towards centralization.
Somehow, he makes it all make sense.When General Motors first started out, the whole concept of a corporation that size was fairly new.
Certainly a must read business encyclopedia for corporate management and governance
In Sloan's foundational 1920 memo, "Organization Study," he argued that the real goal of the head office of a company such as GM was to evaluate the return on invested capital for each division, and allow "the Corporation to direct the placing of additional capital where it will result in the greatest benefit." He advocated a central and independent Executive Committee, which would decide on general ideas about policy, and a Financial Committee, which would allocate capital based on each division's returns, but the rest would be left up to the independent divisions.
This seemingly easy division involved no end of line-drawing and debates (styling and research were once done in divisions, but moved up to the corporate office), but the general outlines of Sloan's "Organization Study" lasted, and propelled one of the world's most successful companies for over 50 years.
I know that Sloan left a lot out of this memoir, such as his attempts to destroy the union and other greedy plots, but the story of cars is immensely interesting.
There were lots of small car companies in the beginning and until they were combined into the rather unimaginative name of General Motors they were not that interesting.
Once the company became large and was able to pour money into research and engineering, the story becomes fascinating.
Of course, Sloan ended up creating a foundation that has done a lot of good long after his death.
He was a pretty cool character.
I suspect one would learn considerably more valuable lessons from a history of GM after Sloan departed the company. Like many books of its ilk, this amounts to a victory lap. I struggle to learn much from my own victories, let alone anyone else's, particularly one who rode one of the 20th century's structural growth engines. I found large chunks of this book irrelevant, at least to this reader. I further give myself 2 stars for not adequately analyzing what this was likely to be like prior to reading.
Bản Tiếng Việt dịch còn nhiều điểm thiếu sót như dùng sai đại từ, một số chỗ dịch word by word, dịch nguyên câu văn dài từ tiếng anh, đọc rất khó hiểu.
Về nội dung, nửa đầu rất hay, nói về những ngày đầu tiên Sloan thiết lập cơ chế quản trị phi tập trung, và phối hợp thông qua các ủy ban, về làm chính sách và điều hành.
Nửa sau đang đọc, sẽ cập nhật tiếp.Vì sách tiếng việt và dịch giả làm công nghiệp quá nên tôi chỉ cho 3 sao.
Bạn nào có khả năng nên đọ sách tiếng anh sẽ hấp dẫn hơn nhiều
Credits include Bill Gate's acclaim and my original prompt to read it based on it's inclusion in a list of the top ten business books of all time.
Sloan began with an engineering background, some business experience and a successful bearings business.
Sloan was at the front of that early success, from the 20's and into the 60's.
Sloan can be credited with running the first corporation of that size with reason, fair dealing, and a visionary outlook.
Sloan divides the auto industry into 3 periods: pre-1908 (class market), 1908 to the mid 1920's (mass market), and beyond that (mass-class market).
Short of being the CEO of a giant corporation, it is hard to get an appreciation of what's involved in running a business of this magnitude.
This is true business management classic.It can be regraded as the handbook for present day manufacturing companies.Bill Gates told Fortune, “My Years with General Motors is probably the best book to read if you want to read only one book about business.”
Drucker made a study of General Motors, specifically about its management.
I think this book, altogether with "Adventures of a Bystander", both from Drucker, are a must read for people who want to completely understand the concepts of modern administration and the people involved in creating it, since Sloan did not reveal any personal information regarding him or the other GM top executives - he stated only the facts and the decisions that made GM the big enterprise it is today.
By reading "Concept of the Corporation", one can understand the theory Sloan and his team implemented in GM.
Too many words ;-) It's not conversational easy reading like contemporary business books.
Sloan clearly didn't believe in pulling rank or letting himself get lobbied to make stupid business decisions by division leaders within GM.
It's been so long since I've read the book that I don't remember all of the details, but the short answer is that GM minimized the investment in copper-cooled engines due to GM's willingness to allow for decentralized experimentation.Microsoft was clearly modeled after Sloan's GM, which I believe played a pretty substantial role in their first few decades of success.
pretty thick, knew i wouldn't get all the way through, but figured since the guy endowed the bschool at mit, least i could was attempt the book.
famous rec from bill gates, something to the effect of 'if you read one business book, read this' also helped.prose is really not user friendly, if evaluating on this metric score would be lower.however, tells some interesting stories about the early days of gm.
delayed publication of the book for a long while (almost 20 yrs) until all the people who played prominently in the story had passed away.
lots of confidence in his own longevity!overall, came away impressed with the man, less so with the book.
It's a management hand book - a classic.Has more to do with GM years until the 1950sBut its an amazing historyTakeaways- Ford's inertia with the Model TDevelopment of the automobile from utilitarian, to an aspirational consumer good that required differentiationThe effect of war on GMAdvances in engines, fuel, and the automobile itself.GM's other business divisionsThe steep learning curve that such a massive company had to go through - in terms of relations with its stakeholdersFun book. Not amazing though.
I read this because it is supposed to be one of the top books on management.
No doubt the book is full of many great things and ideas.
But for me it read more like a history of GM than a book on management.
This is the first time I have read it and maybe things will settle in my mind more.
the book probably could have been more concise and less focused on "just the facts".
I got bored reading some of the pages because I felt it was too focused on GM as opposed to timeless principles of Great management.
This book is a must read for all business owners, executives, college business majors and not just in the automotive. A fascinating autobiography for anyone interested in automotive history or 20th century business. It is as important today as it was when first written. The analysis of every situation and attention to detail from the records of General Motors and Sloan's own perspective and frankness is the hallmark of this book.
Incredibly lucid account of the development of the modern corporation. The difference between GM as an entity that would bail out its founder and president William Durant after his speculative stock purchases imploded (a move Sloan seemed sour about) to a corporation that systematized and rationalized its decision-making process is immense.
I just couldn't finish reading this book. It has very good business information and is an interesting history of the auto industry and industry in general for the time period covered. But it reads like corporate board room minutes. It would make a great reference tool but I just couldn't find enjoyment as a cover to cover read.
Recommended to me by a distinguished colleague, it was my first true business book, and I feel the lessons are still relevant.
A great read with many valuable lessons and insights. Offers many insightful stories told by a pioneer in the field of management.
Must read for anyone starting an automotive career
Great insights into the mind of one of America's truly great business executives
I actually never finished this book since it was so dry and hard to read...
Great read!
If you want to understand how modern companies work - here's how it started. The modern myth is bill gates read this book when running Microsoft to learn how to do it!
An essential read for managers about the history of the present-day corporation structure, including boards of directors, committees and mergers.
Nice book, with a lot of insider information and history of general motors.
