https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32974.Nancy_Drew
So I've read a lot more than just 6 Nancy Drew books but I couldn't find a category for "Every Nancy Drew Book I could find". I must credit Carolyn Keene with instilling in me the love of reading. I can also credit her with my abnormal sleeping habits. Every summer I would start reading a Nancy Drew book at bedtime and finally go to sleep when I was done. Every day in and out and I never grew tired of trying to figure out the mystery before Nancy and Ned.
In the meantime a band of thieves steal people's furniture and housing supplies.I have read most of the Nancy Drew books when I was younger.
The Bungalow MysteryAnother great mystery book with Nancy Drew.
This is one of the most exciting Nancy Drew books I have read.
The Secret of Shadow RanchAnother great Nancy Drew book.
There wasb't as much thrill in ...more Another great Nancy Drew book.
The girls are pretty much in all of the Nancy Drew books.
The girls are pretty much in all of the Nancy Drew books.
Nancy Drew is by far the best series of books I read in elementary school.
These books are great for outside of class readings.
I would have my students read these books on their own, and then maybe once they have finished them, I would have a treasure map set out for each group and have my students follow the map going from clue to clue learning about the subject we are learning about in class.
This would be a fun and active way to get my students excited about reading their book and learning about the lesson in class.
When I was young, I enjoyed quite a few Nancy Drew books, but they get really old after reading several. Hardy Boys or Judy Bolton books are so much better!
My almost six year old and I are reading this. I LOVED LOVED LOVED Nancy Drew as a kid, I credit this "author" it was created by Mildred Wirt Benson (and a publisher's syndicate). Some of the language is still a bit scary for her age so I change it up as we read. We are currently on The Mystery of Shadow Ranch.We had fun discussing those ancient relics known as -- phone booths!We were excited to try Wilma Tenderfoot but much too scary for her age. Not there yet. Wouldn't recommend.
I can't even begin to describe how these books influenced my childhood. I've only marked 1-6 as read but there are two full shelves of them at my house in Alabama and I'm trying to fill in the holes so that someday I've got a complete set. Once again, a great fictional role model- here we've got a girl (three if you count Bess and George who're always helping) out solving mysteries using her own intelligence, determination and perserverence. These are a great way to get kids (probably particularly little girls) hooked on books. Worked for me.
Okay, I am adding this to replace all of the Nancy Drew books I have individually listed on here.
Let's just say I have read pretty much all 50+ of them, and that I enjoyed them a lot as an eleven-year-old.
Just to clarify, I never read the Nancy Drew Files or the Girl Sleuth books.
I compared those to the Babysitter Club books, which I despised for some reason.
I also read some first editions (like, real first editions, not the reproductions of the originals that are out now) and they are different from the yellow books, but equally entertaining.
I read all of the Nancy Drew books during 3rd to 5th grade - I think that is all I read :) However, once my mom bought me the 64th book, I was finally tired of them :( I recently bought the first 5 books and enjoyed reading them all over again. I am a Nancy Drew purist and don't really have an interest in the more modern series. My cousin, Kathy, still has most of her original collection.
Reading Nancy Drew for the first time when I'm 19 severely changes my opinion sadly. I found them quite predictable and simple, BUT I know that they are children's books. I would definitely have enjoyed these as a kid and probably would have found them a lot more thrilling and unpredictable. It's too bad I didn't read them before, but I'm glad I read them now. I will definitely give these to my children (when I have some).
Nancy Drew is a fun light read but the problem I have with the whole series is that the author, in every single book, puts down Nancy's friends and insults them in order for Nancy Drew to appear even more perfect. After saying how pretty Beth and Georgia are, we hear that Beth is a little pudgy and Georgia is a tomboy, therefore, we are expected to come to he conclusion that Nancy is the prettiest of them all.
If this was a boxed set of 1-60 or so that would fit the bill better for me. My cousin and I "lived" for being able to go to the mall to get the next 2 books that we didn't have. Our goal was to get the whole series between the 2 of us. We were very disappointed to discover that Carolyn Keene was not a real person. We loved Nancy Drew.
Ok I couldnt find the complete boxed set on this, but I am pretty sure that I have read almost every single Nancy Drew book. When I was younger, I LOVED Nancy Drew, and when I feel like reading a really easy book I still read them from time to time. I just love mysteries, and when I was younger I wished that I could be Nancy Drew!
These books remind me of my Oakwood Elementary Library.. for some reason and for the librain Miss Jacobs who recommended them to me.. I can acuatlly still see where they are in the library.. back wall less than half the way down and about the top 1/3 of the shelves.. :) I read alot more than the first five but I think this will suffice :)
These books were some of the first "big kid" books I ever read (very few, if any, pictures), so they'll always have a special place in my heart. Now, I know that they are fairly predictable and a little corny, but as a kid they were exciting and had me reading under the covers with a flashlight after I was supposed to be asleep.
While I read most of these, from The Secret of the Old Clock up to around #56 or so, they were a great read although a more modern take on the books would mean she probably wouldn't come out of some of the situations the same anymore. This review, of course, coming out with the timing of a movie, apparently, under the series name.
The summer before fourth grade I spent a few weeks with my grandparents in the middle of nowhere Florida, and went every day to the oldest library in the state, where I read every single old Nancy Drew hardcover available (and the entire collection of The Three Investigators too). Got a soft spot in my heart for that rich bitch Nancy now.
Who can't go wrong with an old classic!!! I absolutly love these books! its something that can pass down for generations. Just the curiousity of a young smart girl gets to me and how she can solve all these problems. All the mysteries always suprise me at the end never an expected ending. Its what i love about these books!
I have read about 60 Nancy Drew stories, and they all captivate you and make sure that you CAN NOT put the book down! Because pretty much at the end of every chapter there is a new surprise and they leave you at a cliff hanger. So if you HAVE to stop reading it, good luck at finding a good place to stop!
As young girls my sister and I had most of the books in this series written by Millie Benson under the pen name of Carolyn Keene. Keene worked in her professional field of journalism while ghost-writing the Drew series. Now Nancy is being revived via Hollywood, the film potentially bringing new interest to the famous young sleuth and to these books!
I love Nancy Drew. I started reading them when I was a child and I had never read anything like a mystery before. I remember feeling so excited at the new experience. I doubt they'd hold the same magic for me now, but I will always love Nancy Drew. I think they're wonderful books for engaging a young child into the awesome world of reading.
oh my gosh! old school nancy drew! my mom bought me my first nancy drew book when i was about 5. i fell in love with nancy. i picked this box set because i didn't want to click on every single book, but i read all eleventy million of them. My dream is to one day own all of them, the old yellow ones of course.
My daughter suggested that I read "The Secret of the Old Clock" and being an obliging parent, I did. I can see why she likes it, though I think I will stick with books geared to an older target readership.
So I have read the whole nancy drew set! all of them, back when I was in middle Might not remember the content of each and every book, but I remember plowing through them and anxiously waiting for then new book to come out.
I was a huge Nancy Drew fan when I was growing up. I probably started reading them when I was 9 or 10 and read every single one. I loved the mystery and suspense. So much fun! I hope my little girl will want to read them someday too.
I guarantee you i have read every Nancy Drew book ever written. I have been getting one for my daughter every Christmas since her first. I hope she will enjoy them as much as I did! i am tempted to add The Sweet Valley High books to my list too! ;-)
I absolutely adored this series when I was growing up and I read just about every Nancy Drew book I could get my hands on so I was excited to stumble upon this boxed set in the store and had to grab it. Nancy Drew, Bess and George will always be a special part of my childhood.
I'm working on the owning the complete collection. But even today when I'm feeling blue I'll pull one of these dusty classics from the shelves and give myself a good time revisiting my old friends from River Heights. And some day I hope to have my very own shiny blue sporty roadster.
I actually read every darn one of this series when I was little. Loved them! We used to have races in elementary school as to who could finish a book from the series first. Yeah, I was even a nerd then. :)
I read all 56 of the original Nancy Drew mysteries in grade school and loved every one of them. These books kept me up late at night reading under the covers with a flashlight. :) I have enjoyed sharing these books with my daughters as well.
While I did not own this specific box set, I did read several of the books in this original incarnation of Nancy Drew. I couldn't see what all the fuss was about, and could not relate to what felt like her wealthy lifestyle. I was more of a Trixie Belden reader.
