https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4031.Lunar_Park
This novel could have been really something but it turned into a real dog’s breakfast. Crap all over the place. What a mess. Reading Lunar Park was like watching one of those jovial interviews with major serial killers you can find on youtube. The reporter is alarmed/mortified/astonished to find himself quite liking this monster who slaughtered 17 human beings. You get this kind of dialogue -- Hey Jeff, can you explain a little what would be going through your mind when you were drilling holes i
At this point the book appeared to be three things at the same time-	A psychodrama about fathers and sons, laced with sadness-	A light amusing satire of very rich parents, with every damn kid in the neighbourhood medicated up to the maximum legally permitted-	An increasingly vicious hateful self-portrait, circling brilliantly and fascinatingly around the psychological black hole that is American PsychoBut then it shimmies into a fourth thing which takes the rest of the story over and this is where the book drives over the cliff and smashes to bits on the rocks below, as it becomes a lame Stephen King story, or, since I’ve never read one of SK’s supernatural books, I should say, what I imagine rather contemptuously to be something SK might come up with : fiction written by the main character “Bret Easton Ellis” starts to come to life!

I saw it as a near brilliant bit of mind f*ckery, so many psychological themes and commentary on modern life for me to gleefully go searching on Google to tear up and figure out.
These parents were scientists and were no longer raising their kids instinctually - everyone had read a book or watched a video or skimmed the Net to figure out what to do." I also found it incredibly clever to write a novel based on, or rather heavily referencing, your previous novels, in this way.
But I like a book (or movie) that has me researching and discussing with other readers, trying to figure it all out.
I love how the protagonists are always a bit off – a big part of you detests them, a little bit of you feels sorry for them, and a tiny piece of you is jealous of the seemingly glamorous lives they live (the sex, drugs, parties, dining at Spago with supermodels stuff…not the ax murder Patrick Bateman stuff).Lunar Park is a bit different, because while I felt the expected pity and disgust toward the main character in the beginning of the novel, toward the end he made a turn for the better and I found myself somewhat invested in him.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “You dream a book, and sometimes the dream comes true. When you give up life for fiction you become a character.” What is Lunar Park???? Brett Easton Ellis claims it to be his homage to Stephen King (and you will see later in this review that it did indeed bring to mind one particular King character) – but when I really need to break it down to basics I’m going with Lunar Park is what would happen if American Psycho and Fight Club an
Brett Easton Ellis claims it to be his homage to Stephen King (and you will see later in this review that it did indeed bring to mind one particular King character) – but when I really need to break it down to basics I’m going with Lunar Park is what would happen if American Psycho and Fight Club and The Amityville Horror and Cujo all had a baby.This book is Ellis’ “memoir,” if you will.
“The murders and torture were in fact fantasies fueled by [Patrick Bateman's] rage and fury about how life in America was structured and how this had – no matter the size of his wealth – trapped him.
The first chapter was brilliant, as Ellis, whose main character is a fictional creation named -- wait for it -- Bret Easton Ellis -- pokes a goodly amount of fun at himself, his career and the state of his life.Then the book falls horribly flat...
As such, this book represents the third strike for Ellis.One caveat: on your next visit to your local book store or library, hang around and read the first chapter: it's a brilliant satiric synopsis of Ellis' entire career.
I feel FUNNY funny, strange funny, like someone touched me inappropriately and I don't know how I feel funny.
Mostly it's triggered by standing in shopping centres and being overwhelmed with rage, disgust, fear and hunger but sometimes it's triggered by someone fucking with my head.
Okay, if you're a parent, one of your kids probably has a toy that creeps you the fuck out.
This doll definitely does things to me in my sleep, it probably watches me shower, swims in my urine when I forget to flush the toilet, is that little tickle on my foot at night that I imagine is the cat WHEN I KNOW IT REALLY ISN'T.
There’s a story behind the film Adaptation: scriptwriter Charlie Kaufman had a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, so what did he do?
He wrote a film about him having a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, writing himself into the script, creating for himself a twin brother, dedicating the finished piece to the sibling who didn’t exist.
Author Bret Easton Ellis, creator of American Psycho and other “transgressive” novels, wrote himself into his novel Lunar Park, conjuring for himself a family, a film actress wife, a quiet neighborhood in the suburbs, a son.
I wanted to stand up and say, "Hey, it's creeping you out, isn't it.
Isn't it?!
ISN'T IT!!!?" But you just can't live your life that way.
It's inappropriate.Bret Easton Ellis, on the other hand, can do whatever the hell he wants.
But let's put aside the fact that Ellis is writing a tale about semi-pseudo Ellis.
It's also a damn disturbing ride, and the fact that he had the nerve to treat himself the way he treats all his other characters, facing off with self-disemboweling dogs and "the world is more horrible than we pretend" madness, is just cold, man.
Cold.
The first twenty or so pages of this book seemed to be exactly that, and I had just gotten really curious about Ellis' life, but in Copenhagen a cup of coffee costs ten dollars so I don't even want to know what Lunar Park sells for.
I know Bret Easton Ellis can write much better books than this.
Este Easton Ellis se parece más al de American Psycho que al de Los Confidentes o Menos que cero y eso me gusta porque cuando el tío de pone a narrar lo hace más que bien. De momento, sin perder sus señas de identidad, esta historia de terror promete.
I think Norman Mailer said it best, that Bret was taking on deep Dostoyevskian themes.Most people that hated American Psycho hated it for legitimate reasons.
He skillfully included enough facts to make this seem like a legitimate recap of his life so far, although the tone becomes satirical by the end of the section.His whole career dating back to his debut novel and including American Psycho have been about two central themes: apathy and narcissism.
If we refer back to my list of things Douglas Coupland did to screw up JPod, BEE here does them all and then some, by adding in less pornography than Glamorama (remember the like 20+ page threesome in the middle?
With a more-famous, possibly more-drugged-up version of himself as the main character, BEE sinks to new lows with:a) impossibly dated pop culture references (look at the date this piece of crap got released, yet in the book his kids dress as Posh Spice and Eminem for Halloween.
So I've spent this year developing a love/hate relationship with Bret Easton Ellis' work.
I don't understand why his books fascinate me or even why they work as compelling fiction, yet I keep reading them because his voice is so distinct.
I spent 90% of the book hating it, wondering why I was still reading it, and then found the ending beautiful.
I didn't think Ellis could write something that would fit under my (admittedly very personal) definition of "beautiful" anything.
Knowing he wrote this before Imperial Bedrooms (see my two word review for my opinion on that one) renders it even more puzzling.
I don't know why.
Lmao what did I just read.
This was a complete fiasco.
This was like if you smushed every Bret Easton Ellis book into one and then added a sprinkle of Stephen King weirdness and timesed the metafiction by 100.
Bret was the main character but he was also the writer but he was also interacting with characters from his books who were both real and fictional on very different levels.
Oh and Jay McInerney was in it too.Basically this book started out really good and then it was a mess but it was a good mess.
I heard a lot of great things about this book, but i wasn't that impressed.
Admittedly, this over the top aspect made it really amusing; the plot is basically that Bret Easton Ells (by writing himself in as the protagonist, he 'does an impression of himself') is in his 40's and still throwing big parties during which he offers mediocre coke to his guest and then steals away to his office to do enormous lines of much better coke.
Without giving away too much, the book's most interesting characteristic is that it somehow slides from autobiography into a tongue-in-cheek Stephen King parody (the horror scenes of which involve the Furby).
LUNAR PARK is a bit of a departure for Bret Easton Ellis in that it's more of a traditional page-turner than anything else he has previously written.
The story is an odd mix of dark comedy and horror, but, as this is a Bret Easton Ellis novel, the book is also replete with rich subtext, poetic descriptions, and copious amounts of scenes portraying addiction and drug abuse.
Apart from the ending, which left me a little confused on some points, I found LUNAR PARK to be a memorable, thoroughly enjoyable novel, and one of Ellis' best.
It seems like at least 40% of the book is about how you just can't trust Bret Easton Ellis.
The horrific story of an untrustworthy narrator is a good trick if you can pull it off, but I'm not feeling like Lunar Park pulls it off as Will Self's My Idea of Fun, Jim Thompson's After Dark My Sweet, or The Usual Suspects.
There were interesting story elements here.
I did really want to like this.
I only read about 60% of this before I got really really sick of hearing about fictional Bret Easton Ellis.
Ellis cranks up the pace from a rather languorous start with a lot of back story (on himself) to a thriller laced with short sentences, dreams punctuated with reality, horror mixed with humour, until we are confronted with the real bad guys, all of whom live in Ellis’ head and in his past.I found the weaving of fact and fiction into the novel interesting and was left with the question of how much of oneself does a novelist have to inject into his work before he himself becomes a parody?
After getting my fill of Ellis' banality, narcissism and misogyny upon reading "American Psycho" (along with "Less Than Zero" and "Rules of Engagement") I vowed never to read another of his books.
The first forty pages of "Lunar Park" didn't exactly bode well; predictably (narcissistically), Ellis talks about his personal life and his experiences in writing his first four novels.
If you are like me and thought you'd never pick up a B.E.E. book again after being disgusted by "American Psycho", trust me, give "Lunar Park" a try.
Para todo lo demás existe Mastercard.En total tenemos una novela – que evidentemente está escrita a la perfección – que se publica en un momento estratégico de la vida del autor después de ocho años de su último libro, que te engancha prometiéndote escandalosas revelaciones de su vida, que luego te confunde al empezar a enredarse con personajes de otros libros y personajes de la vida real cuyo ritmo se centra en las patologías más temidas de las relaciones padre-hijo y creador-creatura, que te pone de punta con unos acontecimientos que desbocan en absurdos, sobrenaturales y aterrorizantes; y termina cerrando como Diox manda – es que estas obras tan ambiciosas terminan poniendo al torta al final – con un capitulo emotivo que no es lo que parece ni está dirigido a quien se dirige.Cito al Blog Sueños a Pila “Y Lunar Park guarda lo mejor para el final: las últimas 14 páginas conforman uno de los mejores finales alguna vez escritos.
The false autobiographical story, the meta perspective, the Stephen King-homage, the father and son theme, the satirical look at the direction that modern society.
The father/son theme is perhaps the most interesting part of the book, and you could easily remove it and have the story work about just as well (maybe then only as a horror/satire).
Looked at in isolation, the horror elements could have been form a Goosebumps novel, and somehow I feel Ellis could have solved it all in a more clever way.
Actually, that's what it read like - a car that keeps on dying, but the owner just won't let it go in peace.The only vaguely interesting bits were the scenes involving the Terby or the hair monster, but that's simply because by that time I was starved for ANYTHING that would grasp my attention.
The book starts off by making so many references to drugs and sex that I'm afraid I'll catch an STD simply by touching it, and then it bores me silly for three hundred pages until expert of all things supernatural Bob Miller (and his sidekicks Sam and Dale) arrive with their EMFs and I could pretend I was reading Supernatural fanficton instead.Lastly, a possessed not-toy crawls in through the family dog's anus and takes possession of its body, turning it into a werewolf-like thing with wings.Yes, it's one of those books.
3.5/5I'm not the most well-read guy on Bret Easton Ellis, not by a long shot.
And I should be better read considering I enjoy the guys writing style quite a bit.
I like the minimalist style, and I enjoy his brand of satire.
That he made it a suburban gothic horror makes it even more fascinating.I won't pretend to understand everything as it's a bit of a psychological mindfuck, but I got the general idea.
It's obvious Ellis is a talented writer because he pulls off psychological horror, satire and a memoir all in the same book.
This was a life changing sort of read.
There is an underlying theme to this book which is...
'take time out to appreciate the people you love the most'.
So cliche - but this is the strong concept I grasped from this book.
I plan to read every last one of his books.
It is pretty dramatic and heartwrenching at times though it has some witty humor.
At the end of the book I had to sit and marinate for a long time to grasp WTF just happened...
and it was truly life changing.
It's definitely not his best one. It's entertaining and even a bit thrilling at some points, but this hank-moody-kinda-guy gets a little annoying from time to time. Listening to "Fear of a blank planet" is more fun, to be honest.
His most self-indulgent book to date. The beginning chapters are perfect because it's somewhat autobiographical until it's not. The novel went from reality to fiction and that's where it felt flat.
Finished my re-read of this. I'm still going to call this my favorite BEE book, with Glamorama as a close second.
El propio Ellis ha confesado que su deseo de escribir una novela de terror pura (él siempre consideró American Psycho una comedia oscura) proviene de su admiración por Stephen King, y es inevitable establecer un par de conexiones con la obra del autor de Maine: El Resplandor también abordaba el conflicto de padres e hijos, con fantasmas y casas encantadas; y por otra parte, La Mitad Oscura contaba la historia de un autor que tenía que enfrentarse con un asesino de su propia creación (en aquel caso era un alter ego, un pseudónimo encarnado).
Writing in the first person as a bizarre alcoholic, drug-addicted parody of himself, Ellis takes us on a dark journey into his celebrity lifestyle: married to an A-list Hollywood actress, father of a son he's estranged from, living in upstate New YorkThere are various plot strands ranging from Ellis's troubled relationship with his dead father, the disappearance of a number of boys from his son's school, to the activities of a serial killer who is apparently copying the killings from Ellis's earlier novel American Psycho.The book is a fantastic read, easily the most enjoyable Ellis novel I've read.
