https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401679.Llama_Llama_Red_Pajama
RIP. Deeply saddened to hear of Anna's death today after a year-long struggle with cancer. I loved reading her books to my son, and he loved them too. These stories, and her wonderful illustrations, will always mean a lot to me. They are perfect reading material to share with your little ones.
A sweet little ball of fur it was. Adorable characters - Llama Llama and Mama Llama. Teaches small readers to have patience with absorbing illustrations. Suggested for young learners.
A fost tare drăguţă, mai ales ilustraţiile şi cred că este o carte perfectă de citit copilului de peste 2 ani noaptea, înainte de culcare.
Copiiilor le plac repetiţiile, iar ,,Lama lama în pijama" este o construcţie adorabilă.
Versurile au fost adaptate reuşit în limba română, iar bazat pe aceasă carte este şi un serial Netflix animat.
Mă întristează să aflu că autoarea s-a stins din viaţă, la numai 50 de ani, nemaiavând ocazia de a continua seria de cărţi despre micuţa lamă.Recenzie completă, detaliată și cu fotografii aici: https://vanillamoonbooks.blogspot.ro/...
I absolutely love reading this one aloud to my daughter, Therese! The rhyming is so perfectly cadenced and she always giggles at the scrunched up mad face little llama makes when he is sooooo tired of waiting on his mama. A fun, fun read and good to remind "baby llamas" that mama is always there.
September 3, 2016**RIP Ms. Dewdney. My children and grandchildren enjoyed your stories.
This has quickly become one of our favorite books to read. It is so cute and I just love. A bit long for a baby, so sometimes my almost one year old isn't able to sit long enough for the whole thing. I'm going to have buy more Llama Llama books!
Fun little children's book, but Mamma should have spanked this little llama.
LOVE llama llama, even when he tries every trick in the book to avoid bedtime.
Even more, LOVE Mama Llama when she has had ENOUGH!Baby Llama’s impatience turns to worry, anger, and fear waiting for Mama Llama to bring a drink of water in this delightful rhyming bedtime tale.
Adorable paintings of baby Llama in various stages of distress are a perfect match for the all-too-familiar nighttime scenario; the deep blue hues give the reader a sense of calm in spite of little llama’s escalating “llama drama.”A terrific bedtime story and fun read-aloud for the very young, this will elicit knowing looks and smiles from children and adults alike.
Finally got a copy of this and my kid's loved it. A book my 5 yr old as well as my twin 3 yr olds loved. A solid reading level 1 book, this cute story keeps all ages engaged with the bright colorful pictures and cute story. A great addition to any children's library.
Adorable story. This was read to us at storytime at the library. I hear there's a sequel. Going to check that out now.
She fights off sleep at bedtime, asking for "more song" and "mama sleeps too" and "mama sit," and no matter that I do what she asks, she immediately wants the opposite.
As Child and Daddy read this story together at bedtime (after I'd already read it twice with her), I deliberately went in and out of her room as much as possible sorting laundry and picking up toys to illustrate that Mama always comes back when she leaves.
I said I was going to go sit with Daddy for five minutes and if she was awake when I came back, we'd sing another song.
Outstanding book. I like that it can be sung to a tune. Deep characters. That Momma sure is something! ; )
It's bedtime and a little llama is freaking out. Where could mama llama be? Young readers will enjoy the gentle rhythm of the rhymes as well as the illustrations that capture the wide range of emotions. Young ones and parents alike will enjoy the reassuring tone of this book.Find Llama Llama Red Pajama at the Westminster Public Library!
My youngest child loves this book. Can't get enough of it. It's fun to read with a 1-year old.
I love this book! I chose this book because I read this book to my kids. I absolutely love how accurate this book is when it comes to bedtime and kids. Never fails this is how my children behaved at bedtime. I like how its a book of reassurance to kids and they can see it. They can see in the book that mama sometimes is doing other things, it doesn't mean she is gone.
The llama drama for the mama llama is enough to soil the red pajama, but in the end baby llama learns to keep everything shama-llama with the ding-dong."Baby llama don't cause such a tizzy, sometimes mama llama's busy!"Gets better with every read.
"anh anh ANH" that is lorenzo pointing at the books in the stack beside his chair until I am touching Llama Llama.then we read to the page where mama runs upstairs... and he makes me start over, and over, and over signing "more!". best.story.ever!
My husband, daughter, and I all love the Llama Llama books, but my husband and I refuse to read this to our 2.5 year old.
She would wake up and start yelling/screaming for us to come get her out of the crib just because she was awake.
Not scared, not in need of a diaper change, just awake and wanting to play.
In the story, Llama Llama pretty much has a temper tantrum when his mom puts him into bed and goes to the kitchen to get something.
Or perhaps we'll just focus on our other Llama Llama favorites.
The Llama is kind of a punk, though his mama does rebuke him for his drama.Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
My babies fell in love with this book at 6 months old. The rhymes are fun and there is a lot of suspense/drama! It’s a page turner.
Kait loves this. We read it as pink pajamas because she happens to have some pink pjs with llamas on them. And of course, when I read it I hear the rapped version in my head each time.
this book is very cute. my rabbit enjoyed taking naps on it.
Text-to-world connectionMy take on this book is about children’s natural attachments to their parents. This is something that I see everyday. Baby llama like most other children will throw a fit if their parents have step out of a room for to long. Children have a hard time disconnecting from the natural bond they share with parents. Even if it is only a short period of time it seems like forever to children.
Such expressive paintings and perfect rhyming meter. Bonus points for having the phrase “please stop all this llama drama.”
Love this as a read aloud experience. Wonderful flow and engaging illustration.Love that Llama Mama!!
This book was one of my first favorites when I started working at a daycare. The infants and toddlers loved hearing this story over and over again and again. I think what they children loved most was the expressions illustrated in the story. You can see the many emotions little Llama and Mama Llama feel such as worry, anger, impatience and contentment. While reading this book aloud I love to emphasis those emotions. The rhyming in this story make it a fun and catchy read a loud.
Every time I read this book I hear the Ludacris version in my head - he killed it! 🙌
This book is fun with rhyming. The story relates to the need for baby llama to be comforted by mama llama. It is a cute story with a great message.
An instant hit with my two-year old. He requested that I read it again and again. On top of this, my 8 months old was giggling the whole time at the beautiful illustrations. We recommend it for the simple, yet effective storytelling able to engage and charm kids, for the lovely melody that's characteristic of the writing style.
We love the Llama Llama series. The Llama is waiting for someone special. However, baby Llama is very impatient and can't wait and is constantly calling mama. The setting is bedtime and mama is trying to get chores done. As there are kids who have bedtime rituals, so does baby Llama. I love reading this to my kids and acting out the parts and they just laugh and laugh. It is most definitely a good bedtime story.Toddler book
