https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625150.The_Angelic_Avengers
Dineson’s spot on parody of a 19th century English adventure story (her only full length novel) with secret identities and disguises, ridiculous coincidences, last minute rescues, fortunes lost and inheritances reclaimed, overly romantic heroines, and satanic villains.
There are fun allusions along the way to Jane Eyre, Little Red Riding Hood, and Titus Andronicus, and this book which I have heard read as an allegory of the Nazi occupation (and compared to Mann's "Mario and The Magician" and its sinister mesmerist) of Denmark is entertaining but probably not for Dineson neophytes (go to Seven Gothic Tales or Winter’s Tales).
Its 19th century inspirations were probably not as explicit about cannibalism, incest, and human trafficking.
Oltre a quanto spiegato nella presentazione, io credo che ci siano chiare allusioni ai Discordiani ed al loro Mr greyface.A tale scopo, spingiamo alcune donne nell'abisso e teniamo le altre nell'ignoranza di ciò.
E così deve essere, perché senza uno sfondo tenebroso, il giglio non sarebbe così bianco.
Come sempre la finissima Blixen sa imbastire una storia che gioca su vari piani della narrazione e della metafora.Non mi stanca mai!
«Voi persone serie non dovete essere troppo severe verso gli esseri umani su come scelgono di divertirsi quando sono rinchiusi in una prigione e nemmeno è loro concesso di dire che sono prigionieri.
The obvious answer is ‘early Victorian romantic fiction’, but then we can think ‘so what?’ It’s amusing enough, a parody of a historical literary form, but there doesn’t seem much point to it.
Maybe we can find a symbolic system at the centre of the novel: a conflict between moral corruption and moral innocence (and that is what the back cover of my Penguin edition suggests, so it must be true), but the innocence of the young women follows the conventions of the Victorian novel: they are respectable and follow the moral propriety of the Nineteenth Century middle class.
«Certo è una magnifica alleanza» disse Lucan.
Contro chi potremmo mai resistere, se si arrivasse a una prova di forza?
E noi abbiamo intenzione di affrontare il mondo intero».«Hai colto nel segno!» esclamò Zosine.
«E proprio così riusciremo.
Ma è altrettanto evidente che anche l'uomo più forte sulla terra, Ercole stesso, fallirebbe e si troverebbe nella nostra stessa posizione, se volesse ergersi contro il mondo intero.
E questo prova che per noi l'essenziale è combattere l'umanità nel suo complesso ed evitare di combattere una persona in particolare.
Getta il guanto al mondo intero, Lucan.
Così, saremo forti come Ercole».
Girls and women who were not under the protection of men were so vulnerable before modern times, since we have gained some legal status as humans rather than appendages.
This novel makes very clear the absolute danger of being orphaned in a totally patriarchal era, faced by the two young women protagonists.
Their strengths are their friendship and intelligence, which they use to negotiate a situation that turns treacherous.
Unanswered: how people can be so blandly evil as the villains in this story turn out to be?
There simply are such people, or maybe we should coin a species name for them other than 'human.'
‘The Angelic Avengers’ was first published in 1946 but reads like something a hundred years older.
I found the responses of our two heroines to their discoveries somewhat inconsistent, as they both seesaw between helpless gothic heroine and determined woman of action.
Nonetheless, there is something subversive about the young women’s resistance, with the help of an older black woman who used to be Zosine’s nanny.
At times I wondered if events were veering into the supernatural, as there are some distinctly odd conversations about the devil.
In fact, it’s the unsettling conversations that form the most memorable aspect of the book.
No surprise that Karen Blixen wrote this under a pseudonym. It is clumsy, the characters are muddy, the situations peculiar, subplots lead nowhere, and it all turns out ok in the end. Oh, yawn!
Not good enough to excite me. Not bad enough to annoy me. It left me indifferent.
I went into this one expecting a joke, and didn't get an outright joke as much as a tongue-in-cheek pastiche of Victorian novels.
It never falls off the rails, but you can't ever shake the feeling that Blixen is smiling behind the scenes when she writes a convenient encounter that would fit into a Charles Dickens story.The story itself starts off as something of a comedy of errors with all kinds of troubles befalling the pure, innocent protagonist and her friend, and then slows down to the bulk of the story with a priest and wife in Languedoc, France.
Fun, naïve and thrilling story about two English girls and their crime fairytale in France. Often read as an allegory of nazism in Germany, but could just as well be read as a simple children's story about the power of love. It is written in a humerous and ironic way - strange, but fun to read!
En bizar fortælling, som tager sin begyndelse i en romantisk ungpigeverden. Men det hele vender en omgang og man bliver inddraget i en gotisk fortælling, hvor djævelskab og woodoo går hånd i hånd. Blixens fortællestil ligger som rød, poetisk tråd gennem hele romanen.
My TBR shelves have hosted this book for about 20 years I think.
However, I only had vague remembrance of the book, so I started afresh.Like with a lot of other books from these shelves, I am wondering why I have kept it there for so long.
Zosine’s father is in bankruptcy and has to flee, the creditors are banging the door to the mansion the next day and the two girls have to leave.Having no funds to live from they travel to London and apply for positions as governesses.
I have seen the film but not read the book, although it is on my TBR shelves as well.
Karen Blixen, or Isak Dinesen, said in a 1956 interview that this book was written as a distraction during the German occupation, and she called it an 'illegitimate child'.
I've read her 'Winter's Tales' and liked them, and in the mood for some entertainment, this book looked like it would entertain.
I enjoyed the parody aspect of it very much, and allowed myself to relish every thickening of the plot, knowing that all these coincidences and unlikely happenings were written with literary tongue in literary cheek.
Oh yes, the main characters were quite sweet and typical...
I enjoyed this.
Ļoti labs romāns, ar kura palīdzību ielūkoties 19. gadsimta jaunavu domāšanā.Grāmata sarakstīta (un lieliski iztulkota) ārkārtīgi glītā, vecmodīgā valodā un perfekti rada tā laika noskaņu. Vienīgi galvenajām varonēm man bija mazliet grūti just līdzi, jo ir ārkārtīgi sarežģīti iedomāties sevi situācijā, kad esi audzināta maksimāli nošķirta no pasaules realitātes un neko nejēdz no dzīves, bet visu laiku esi atkarīga no vīrieša un pati sevi aizstāvēt vispār nespēj. Ak, un tā mūžīgā ģibšana...Grāmata man visnotaļ patika, vienīgi par šausmīgu gan to mūsdienās grūti nosaukt- esam krietni pārsātinājušies grāmatas un filmas, kur šausmas ir ļoti grafiski un detalizēti atainotas.
If you look at this book as a parody of Victorian literature, it is really funny at some places. Some of the secondary characters are very well developed. But the protagonists are dull. However, if you're looking for something serious, do not read this book. And even if you have already started, you can easily skip the last 40 pages, for it is really a waste of time. I had to skip some passages, they were that boring.
For me, it was a fast but boring read. I didn't feel the suspense at all, I knew what was coming, I didn't have chills that I had expected to have after reading the description. The second half was better than the first and that's all I can write about this book. It was quite ok, but I had a sense of wasting time while reading it.
Written in a Victorian style and released in a mysterious manner and under a false author's name, I thought it was a great read. The story started out a bit bland, but the end makes the book a lot better.
Unlike any story I've ever read. I could at no point see where it was going to lead. Frivolous, and also terrifying.
interesting allegory of women's roles and place in society. the plot bogged down in parts, the ending was too much of a fairy tale ending to be believable to me.
kan slet ikke have dette. overlæsset, racistisk, aristokratisk, sexistisk. men det, som mest er mig imod, er det overlæssede
Elegant and stylish - prolix and tedious.
Love it.
While not quite as good as her short stories, Dinesen's only novel is still good. There are many allusions, including one character who must be based on the Duke from Browning's "My Last Duchess".
