https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4618898-prayers-for-sale
It wasn’t a book that you would stay up all night to read to get to the next chapter.
I must admit that after reading the first couple chapters, I didn’t think I could finish the book.
I was glad at the end there was finally forgiveness and happiness for both Hennie and Abrahm.
I thought that Hennie was a strong woman with a lot of character.
I also liked Hennie’s friendship with Nit. I think there is a lot to be said about building bonds between the old and young.I also enjoyed the quilting aspect and metaphors in the book.
I'm usually able to get through a book fairly quickly...
I think part of my problem was that I just didn't like Hennie.
She's telling Nit these stories to help her adjust to living in her new home...
but the stories are DEPRESSING!!
And Nit loves these stories and says several times that they help her to "heal".
I'm not sure how stories like that would help anyone heal!
I probably would have thrown myself off the mountain listening to Hennie tell her doom and gloom stories.
Just not enough to make the rest of the book REALLY enjoyable for me...
Hennie is eighty-seven years old and she's experienced pretty much everything life can throw at a person: husband dying in the Civil War, brutality at the hands of a cruel man, losing her only child, living in harsh conditions, becoming a widow for the second time.
From there he would start telling his own stories; driving a Model A car when he was eleven, running moonshine in Kentucky, being wild with his buddies, how he met my Grandma and took her to the outdoor picture show.
So, if you're looking for good old fashioned story telling....then look no further, because this book fits the bill.
I feel pretty confident about Kaye's recommendation...because I loved this book!!
I loved the main characters, Hennie and Nit. And I loved the way the story unfolded and then, how the back-story of Hennie's life was perfectly stitched into place. This was true storytelling from page one to the end.Dallas has a wonderful talent for creating a sense of place. I could smell the mountain air, taste the fresh raspberries, and hear the biting winter winds howl.
Sandra Dallas' novel takes its title from a sign on Hennie Comfort's fence, carved when she was "so happy that she had prayers for sale, since there was nothing to ask for." Hennie is an 86-year-old twice-widowed woman living in a small mining town called Middle Swan, Colorado, during the Great Depression.The "prayers for sale" sign brings Nit Spindle, a 17-year-old newlywed girl, to Hennie's door, requesting a prayer for her stillborn daughter Effie.
Dallas' writing is engaging and her characters well-drawn.
By the end of the book, readers will feel like they have made a group of interesting new friends.(Review based on advance reader copy with three-chapter audiobook sampler.)
If you've had any interest in pioneers, you will love this.
If you've had any interest in quilting, you will also love this!
Nowhere on the book jacket is there any mention of the part that quilting plays in these women's lives, and I think if there had been, more people might pick it up to read -- especially all those Jennifer Chiaverini fans (the Elk Creek Quilt Club series).
I feel like the cover picture was designed to appeal to those who'd read "The Memory Keeper's Daughter", but this is a much warmer, happier story.
It is set in the Colorado mountains during the mining boom of the early 20th century (apparently loosely based on the history of Breckenridge).
It's a story of friendship between an old woman, long-time resident of the town about to be forced to move out, and a young woman just arriving.
The old woman has a lifetime of stories to tell - some tender and loving, some brutal and heart-rending.
The young woman has her own secrets.
The two women bond over quilt-making and household tasks, while we learn about the mining efforts going on around them.

Hennie Comfort is 86 years old and living in Middle Swan, Colorado, a mining town high up in the mountains.
If she fell, the snow would cover her up, and nobody would know where she was until she melted out in the spring."Hennie really doesn’t want to leave her home and friends in Middle Swan, a place she’s lived in for 70 years.
Most of the story is set in 1936 and is told in flashbacks to Nit, a 17 year old woman who has just moved to Middle Swan with her husband Dick.
There were several things I really liked about this book: the themes; friendship, forgiveness, love, and faith.
I was unaware that after people had mined for gold, men came up with a faster, more dangerous way of getting gold out the earth.
I thought the book would be more of a historical novel but it was really more of a character study.
When I saw it that way, I saw that format as maybe a little more planned than I had thought at first.
It was an interesting way to put a novel together.
I love this kind of book: meaty yet enjoyable, enthralling, historically-based, with rich and endearing characters and a few twists, ie.
just plain good story-telling.
Hennie, the main character is herself a great story-teller with a wealth of interesting, harrowing, sometimes humorous, tender, wise, and wonderful stories to tell.
Some members are the big pieces of velvet or brocade, show-offish, while others are bitty scraps of used goods, hoping you don't notice them.
A lovely, sweet and satisfying book.
I've read several books by this author before (Diary of Mattie Spencer.
Alice's Tulips, The Chili Queen, The Persian Pickle Club) and like her way of telling a tale about a time past.
The women in her books are realistic, with a strength like that which I see in many of the women of my acquaintance.
We're not superheroes, just women who face the challenges, joys and grief that life throws our way, and keep going with the business of living our lives and loving our families.
This was a gentle book.
Check out some of her other books.
Sweet story of a friendship between an octogenarian woman and a newly married young girl. Setting is in the mountains of Colorado, in the 1930's, in a mining city. Life was simple but so very difficult. Quilting and sewing was a necessity to create clothing and blankets but also a time to communicate with neighbors. The main character, Hennie, is realizing the nearness of her life ending but has many stories to share with Nit, a recent arrival to the city. A good read!
Her books are near impossible to put down! I just read 300 pages in less than 48 hours. She is a great storyteller with interesting characters. This book is set in a mountain town in the 1930's in Colorado. I have read about 4 or 5 of her books and they are all different, but engrossing.
I guess I got one, although I’ve read light reads that didn’t insult my intelligence like this.)My main complaint is Dallas left nothing to the imagination.
I think the only reason she existed was to tell a string of unamusing stories about townfolk past and present.
Again, I think this is probably because Dallas just TELLS you – doesn’t SHOW you anything.
Hmmm, just maybe?) And this irritated me to no end: Dallas hints in the first chapter that there is some big looming secret that Hennie (main character) has to tie up before leaving Colorado for good (but we KNOOOOW that’s never going to happen because she loves it so much).
Widow Hennie Comfort is eighty and six years old and is faced with the fact that she is old - too old to be living alone in her mountain home in a mining town of Middle Swan, Colorado.
The stories weave, like the quilts in the book, in and out and end up being one whole piece.Nit is a lonely woman who also has experienced the same loss that Hennie did as a young woman, so the bond between the two is deep and they find they can share each others burdens over a quilting frame and story telling.
While The Diary of Mattie Spenser was more engaging as a story, Prayers for Sale has a whole different feel to it that is very special.
We learn the history and culture of the region by the little bits and pieces picked up as each new story is told and connected to the bigger picture, much as piecing together a crazy quilt, each piece its own history.While I have a harder time as a reader connecting to short stories, the way they were connected to the lives of Hennie and Nit made me connect more to each of them as a woman, to the history they represented, but also to the importance of learning from those with more experience.
It's nice to remember a time when ladies could sit around a fire, work with their hands and enjoy just connecting to one another.
When she first meets 17-year-old Nit Spindle, a newcomer whose husband has taken a job in the local gold mine, Hennie is drawn to the young, lonely, isolated girl who is grieving.
As the relationship begins, Nit shares that her infant daughter has died.
In response, Hennie shares her suffering—her husband being dragged off to fight in the Civil War; hooligans coming in search of him because they thought he had gone AWOL; their attacking Hennie, resulting in the bizarre death of her young daughter.
And one day, when you think of her, why, you’ll remember her sweetness, not her death.”Nit said, “Your story heals me.” Thus begins the relationship which grows from this healing place.
Hennie and Nit have something in common, their (1st)child dyed at a very young age.
Hennie has been widowed for more that 30 years but has a good friend Tom that has been there for her since the death of her husband Jake.
Tom has a love for Hennie that she never knew, Tom asks her to travel the world with him and to marry him.
Hennie is ready leave the mountain and start a new life with Tom and travel the world she has always dreamed.
So after checking this out for the 3rd time to try to finish this book I can sum it up in a few good quotes from the book.
I’m so happy I finally finished it.
The book was about an elderly lady living in a mining town helping others through their life.
(Yes and some pieces are not pretty and life is difficult but with the darkness comes the sunshine, it snows a lot in Colorado).Oh and I had never heard of scripture cake before, and went online to find the recipe.
It was an ok read, I’m glad it’s over.
Hennie Comfort is 86 years old and living in a mining town high in the mountains above Denver.
They quilt together and Hennie tells story after story after story as a way to orient the young women to people in the town and about life at such a high altitude.
Dallas takes a very masculine place from Colorado's history and brings into view the women who lived in mining towns: wives (some very young, some old, some old before their time), common law wives, dance hall girls, comfort women.
And the novel shows how women in these towns offered each other support at crucial times, despite some palpable conflicts.
ighty-six-year-old Hennie Comfort has lived in Middle Swan, CO - up in the high country of the snow-covered Rocky Mountains - since before it was Colorado.
This is the beginning of an unforgettable tale of friendship between two women and the secrets they've kept in order to survive in a rugged Colorado mining town, one with surprising twists and turns, and one that is ultimately a revelation of the finest parts of the human spirit.I liked it.
I could hear the sound of the screeching of the "dredge" and feel the cold of the mountain wind and snow.
This is a four star book with a five star ending.
Wasn't sure what I thought of the first half, but by the end I was in love with it.
The good woman that Hennie is and the care she takes of the younger generation is so heartwarming.
Whomever designed it missed the point of the book.
It should have been a quilt not a dress!I really think Sandra should write a book similar to this where an old woman describes each quilt with the story behind it.
It means, take it easy.I think this would make a great book for a book group.
Hennie decides to take Nit under her wing & teach her what she needs to know to survive the harsh life that living in Middle Swan brings.
Hennie shares her life story (and many other people's story) with Nit over the course of their friendship.
For the most part, Hennie has accepted her past but still has one major wound to heal, whereas Nit has to overcome her fear of something tragic happening in the future so that she can enjoy today.
This is a sweet story of friendship and the things that bring women together.
OMG---I love this story! About Colorado mining country in 1936 era. An old lady shares her life and stories with a newcomer to town---Hennie and Nit. This story kept me up til I finished it--and now I'm sad that it's over.
I was recommended to me many years ago by a dear friend and I hadn’t ever gotten around to it and I am so glad I finally did, I loved this book.
The story appealed to me because it brought together a strong, independent older woman as she faced her final years and a young newlywed just coming to the camp in an surprising friendship.
I loved to hear the tales told by the women as they made their way through life, a tough existence for a woman in a mountain mining camp.
The tales were often told over a quilting session and I loved every minute of it.
Easy read -good story line - if you like a story tellerYou will enjoy this
I feel such a kinship with Sandra Dallas' characters? They are as real and complex as people we know.
I really loved this book.
Although, several tragic events take place through out the book, I love how strong willed, kind, generous, yet tenacious Hennie was.
I loved all of the fun vocabulary in this book.
Gewgaws from Pg 188 is also one of my new favorite words.
"You told me once you thought can't was the awfulest word you ever heard, so I don't believe it when you say it." Pg 288"I should have forgiven you a long time ago, but I couldn't do it, couldn't bring you that ease.
Hennie Comfort is 86 years old lives in Middle Swan, Colorado.
As the story begins, she meets 17 year old Nit Spindle.
Hennie is a wonderful story spinner and eventually Hennie and Nit develop a marvelous, indescribable friendship.
Many of us would not even think of giving this friendship a chance to develop with the age difference and the diversity of their social standing and money.
I liked the book not only because of the interesting characters and what had happened in their lives, but the descriptions of Middle Swan (love Breckenridge), the dredges, history of the area,but what the story teaches us.
