https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33514.The_Elements_of_Style
This book is good for the following things: 1.
Geoff Nunberg may have said it best: "The weird thing is to see rules like these passed down as traditional linguistic wisdom.
Take that edict that you ought to say "10 persons" rather than "10 people." You can still find it in the recent editions of Strunk and White's revered Elements of Style, along with antique admonitions against saying "contact us" or calling something "worthwhile." The linguist Arnold Zwicky calls these zombie rules.
I remember, my Freshman year, sitting in the Music Building lounge waiting for my next class when Maryanne came crashing in, with an appropriate amount of chaos, announcing to all “Oh crap, I can’t find my Strunk and White.” Everyone else in the room apparently knew what she was talking about, but I sat with a blank stare.
A few weeks latter my required English 101 professor insisted we hit the bookstore and buy ‘The Elements of Style.’ We were to treat it like the Holy Grail of grammar, carry it with us at all times, sleep with it, and consider it our eternal faithful lover.
Strunk means to separate these similar words so that instead of synonyms, we have two similar but precise words.This also prevents confusion, as various English dialects may take these words in different ways, but all share the same roots.However, language changes constantly, so regulating it and placing rules on it is difficult.
The greatest writers do, and this book gives examples of how and why they do it.However, rules are how we create meaning.
(If I knew how to do this, I'd already be some kind of great communication guru.) Repeating this essentially vapid advice in similarly empty formulations like "Be clear" and "Don't explain too much" is of no practical help to anybody, and suggests that even the authors have difficulty in deciphering their own admonitions.2.
The authors are well able to demolish straw men, but if you want advice on a subtle point, they are unlikely to be of any practical help.4.
One can only wonder by whose authority these two gentlemen were anointed God.In a cunning marketing gimmick, the latest edition of Strunk and White has been jazzed up by including illustrations by Maira Kalman.
The gold standard.
No more need be said than to quote Mr. Strunk's thoughts under the headline "Omit Needless Words":"Vigorous writing is concise.
A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts.
This requires not that the reader make all sentences short, or avoid all detail and treat subjects only in outline, but that every word tell."And every word of Mr. Strunk's (as updated and expanded by the brilliant and self-effacing E.B. White) indeed does tell.Don't touch your keyboard without reading this book!
Write to-day, to-night, to-morrow (but not together) with hyphen.Write any one, every one, some one, some time (except the sense of formerly) as two words.Thanking you in advance. This sounds as if the writer meant, "It will not be worth my while to write to you again." Simply write, "Thanking you," and if the favor which you have requested is granted, write a letter of acknowledgment.#Life-Writing-Lessons!
It is very good for what it does, which is advise on how to write clearly and concisely.
But generations of writers have completely misunderstood its purpose and used it as a Bible of Good Writing.
Linguist Geoffrey Pullum has famously gone on something of a crusade against The Elements of Style, and while he makes good points, it may be a little unfair to blame S&W for the fact that writers don't realize the original authors were addressing an audience of barely-literate college students.
Rating: 5* of fiveThe essential guide to HOW to write! How much better to start with a guide to achieving an effect you're looking for.
“It is an old observation that the best writers sometimes disregard the rules of rhetoric”, says professor Strunk.
The old fart was probably referring to his students at Cornell University.
Before that year, English class had meant little more than vocabulary tests, book reports, and those five-paragraph (hamburger) essays.
Our teacher was not interested in getting us to pass a standardized test; instead, she wanted to really teach us how to read and write.To my astonishment, I realized that nobody had ever done that before.
I had been taught how to pass tests on books, but not how to read them.
But reading and writing require something much different: a sensitivity to the written word.
Say what you will about him, he was not a hypocrite; this little book can be read in one sitting.
I find it very impressive that this was written almost one hundred years ago and still remains so relevant and revered today.The book does exactly what the title suggests – covers stylistic elements of the English language.
The grammatical advice was not new to me, which allowed my attention to drift further, and I think I would have more appreciation for this if I had discovered it sooner.
This covers the basic grammatical and stylistic principles of good academic writing and I feel it is a good starter manual for any budding writer.
OBVIOUSLY I NEED MORE APPRECIATION FOR GRAMMAR.
But to be honest I’ve never been much of a grammar enthusiast??
Just stalk my blog for any amount of time and you’ll figure out that typos are my trademark.
XD But still, despite the fact that this is drier than hardtack and less interesting than dirt, IT IS 100% HELPFUL.
Next time I have a question about grammar (HAHAHAhaha let’s just pretend I ask myself questions about grammar when instead I normally just wing it) I’ll refer back to this.
:D Also if you’re an editor you probably need this in your life.
I only had two bones to pick with this book: First, I thought a comment E.B. White made in terms of using only "he" instead of "she" as a universal antecedent for sentences that may begin, "One must watch his/her step," is a bit off for somebody who studies language.
Second, White made a comment about not using a foreign language in a work which, though I agree can be confusing, can still be pulled off.
But those are perhaps just comments on what I might feel about White as a person and not as a writer or teacher.
Had I read this a year ago, happily under the spell of nazism, I might have filled this little review with the kind of gleaming praise and happy diligence of the awakened; however, in the past year I was compelled to take up a few contemporary grammar and style guides and subsequently have developed a sore throat around these pills.
I spit them out.My grammar is not sparkling, nor even prone to an occasional gloss shimmer; nonetheless, a book of this sort does little to help the sheen.
There are a few exceptions in which the categoricity of these commands is spelled out for the reader, but in most cases we are left alone with the word.
But as I outgrew some of the habits it taught me, I began to think of it more as a leap off point for amateur wordsmiths, a sturdy foundation for beginners to build their own style on.Yes, there are probably more up to date guides on grammar and writing, but I haven't read those, so my rating for this book exists in a vacuum of sorts: It's a good manual if you take it as the beginning of wisdom, not the end.

The manual of language for formal writing. Don't read it if you're interested in writing fiction books.
( William Strunk would be shuddering at my using this adjective.) Eventually, I realized that the authors, two versus the authors I look up to, have the method to their madness.The book is divided into five parts which steered clear of my blissful ignorance: Elementary Usage of Rules, Elementary Principles of Composition, A Few Matters of Form , Words and Expressions Commonly Misused, and An Approach to Style.The first part Elementary Usage of Rules shattered my world again when I revisited some wrong grammatical information I disregarded before:# 1.
Basically, most grammar books I have read argue that it is correct to use both singular and plural verb forms.
Very helpful for young authors. And should be read more than once.
Dated and Obsolete.Readers that are looking for a style manual, a usage or grammar guide can find many options better than Strunk and White.
Now, reading it again, thirty years later, it is just like the computer I used back in the late eighties, obsolete in many ways and underpowered for today's tasks.
Rest assured, as the Millenial generation makes its mark on the language, they will change a few things themselves.As writers and speakers of the language, we need a style and usage manual that makes sure we are up to date.
I'm not perfect, but my style and usage manual by Bryan Garner is.
Admittedly, I use the dictionary a lot less than this little book.
The fourth chapter was actually fun to read because parts of it came across as a long, pompous rant."To say, "Hopefully I'll leave on the noon plane" is to talk nonsense.
Do you mean you'll leave on the noon plane in a hopeful frame of mind?
Or do you mean you hope you'll leave on the noon plane?
There is some great advice about writing forcefully and concisely in this book, and at a hundred pages it's well worth the time.
Everyone thinks of this as a book for writers, but today, most of us are. We write to communicate through email, memos & letters. Everyone can benefit by reading this book. It looks quite short & slim, but that is deceiving, like Kern & Ritchie's book on C. They fit a LOT into a small package & it takes practice & referral to get the basics down.
If you're an aspiring writer or just like to write for pleasure (like myself), there's no better grammatical guide!King turned me on to this little gem! :)
This is an essential book on the basic principles of a good writing style. A must-read for anyone who aspires to be a serious writer. (Stephan King)
Then again, because we would not write them anymore we pay attention, we are tempted to analyze them.
Is the book still relevant?
Hence, as a rule, it is better to express even a negative in positive form.Not honest ................................dishonestNot important .............................triflingDid not remember...........................forgotDid not pay attention to...................ignoredDid not have much confidence in............distrusted…”And isn’t it, that we read the words listed on the left side, every day?Whoops, make that, "the book's importance and relevance is proven in the fact that that most of us get to read and also write the words listed on the left side, too frequently.
The aspect that makes this my book of choice regarding English language usage and style is the fact that its authors presented it in a structure that doesn’t demand a reader to understand the naming of the different parts of speech in order to benefit from its teaching.
What’s important is that this is one, lean, mean grammatical machine.
So maybe you read this book and then you still want more.
The title is a play on the names of the authors of The Elements of Style and it’s a pretty decent follow-up to this classical work.
(I guess the author is following his own advice)I do not agree with those who view this book as the ultimate word on grammar and writing (we're not supposed to say "five people" but instead "five persons?" Seriously?) but neither do I disparage it as an outdated and pretentious work as many modern students of writing and literature do.
Still, the majority of this book's content is basic but sadly neglected grammar guidelines that I wholeheartedly agree with AND WISH TO HEAVEN THAT MORE PEOPLE WOULD FOLLOW.Still, despite some reservations, I would recommend this to any writer wanting to brush up on some of the basics.
I have a bone to pick with the author of this book.
Several bones...
First off, the book is way too Americanised.
The so called "elements of style" in this book are sold as international standard (a linguistic crime as there is no such thing), yet it sets aside the British proprieties as well as the Irish, Indian and Australian niceties.
Now, maybe I'm a true internationalist, but when a book tells me that I should not use contractions in an official document, when in fact, there's a huge and extensive debate about it still going on, and leaning nowadays towards using them for ease and flow of language purposes, and when a book of "style" tells me that I should not use my native "utilize" and instead should use "use", I become immediately suspicious.
Great reference book when writing. To be honest though, I like the illustrations more :)
