https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60946.The_Third_Life_Of_Grange_Copeland
A motley crew of malcontents populate this soaring novel; the death of a main character early on reverberates throughout the story like some primal scream.
After reading Walker's first book, there is a 0% chance that you will feel like you didn't share the lives of the heavenly creatures--you will be there with them for all of their minor glories & devastating pitfalls.
There is a back & forth between the characters and their maudlin anecdotes as to establish a sense of democracy--if not in life then at least in her pages.
Alice Walker explores the connection between brutal, dehumanizing, economically crippling racism and brutal, degrading, crippling domestic violence.
The story begins in 1929 rural Georgia with Grange Copeland taking out his degradation on his wife and son.
But when Grange is able to confront his rage and name its source, he is able to return to his home and provide his granddaughter with the love and protection he could not give his son.
This story was populated with difficult characters to like, in an ugly world, revealing too much horrible truth about the impact of racism in this country which too many do not want to face.
Grange is a man with deep flaws and Ms. Walker's story telling leads the reader through a series of emotions toward him, ranging from sorrow to anger to eventual acceptance and understanding.Despite the fictional nature of the story, the book challenges readers to face life as it was during that time and the impact that slavery and racism had on real lives.
In addition to the vibrancy of the characters, Ms. Walker equally immerses the reader's senses in the backdrop of the times through a salient yet satisfying level of detail.If you loved the Color Purple, I have no doubt you will love The Third Life of Grange Copeland.
Better than The Color Purple, Walker's first novel is staunchly feminist (in a completely modern human rights kind of way), with a startlingly transparent look into the male characters' motives and perspective on domestic violence.
That the reader comes to love such a hateful character as Grange Copeland and feels hope and anger and sorrow and pity for another (who did some truly diabolical things that made me gasp) is testament to Walker's huge talent.
Love it, love it. It's not like Alice Walker's later books, after she fell under the spell of Carl Jung. More simple, more homespun, same soul. One of my favorites of her books.
How can a family, a community, a race, a nation, a world, be healthy and strong if one half dominates the other half through threats, intimidation and actual acts of violence? -Alice Walker, Afterward: The Third Life of Grange Copeland This is a very timely novel by the incomparable Ms. Alice Walker. It is a joy and a sorrow that a novel of this subject matter is still relevant in 2017. I wish more would read it or it would be formatted into a movie so that the masses can receive the messages a
Yes, a lot of who we are as a race has to do with being the downtrodden of society for centuries but as Grange Copland says in this book, "We own our own souls, don't we?" No matter what institution one finds ones physical body, ones soul is as free as they themselves allow it to be.
I always believe there is a right and a wrong time for reading certain books.
#1 We all have our reading moods and favorite genres but I can't help wondering if those who put it down just didn't want to open themselves up to the real conversations and subjects that this book definitely brings up.
An enlightening book about violence within the black community in the deep south mainly by men against their own families.
At the beginning of the book Grange is married with a young son, Brownfield.
He heads North looking for something better and returns years later to find that his son is basically leading the exact same life he did only Brownfield is even more embittered, vicious and nasty.
When Brownfield kills his wife, Grange finds he has another chance at family life by taking over the care of Brownfield's daughter Ruth.There are some really shocking moments in this book and some horrible violence but in places it's humourous and heart-warming.
This book published in 1970, is Ms Walker's first book and what a debut. The Third Life of Grange Copeland is primarily set in Baker County, Georgia, tells the story of a family and its cycle of abuse, hatred and oppression.I admit that I love this book more than I did the fantastic The Color Purple.Ms Walker's writing is beautifully crafted, her unfaltering prose traverses the oppressive South to the cold North of pre-Civil Rights Movement USA, unflinchingly telling the story of humanity, and it's struggle for identity, hope and redemption.
This is the best Alice Walker fiction book I ever read. Yes, I have read The Color Purple. I have seen the movie, I have seen the musical. This book is better. I read it a long time ago so I'm a bit fuzzy on the details. I will say this. She goes into each character and makes you see them. She moves the story along nicely as well. I am person who loves details and writings like paintings and that is what this was. I plan to re-read it in the near future.
I read The Third Life of Grange Copeland years ago and its message still resonates today.
A moving story that explains the origins and continued cycle of violence in the black family.
Walker story traces the violence from the black man emaciated by racism while his wife is allowed to make a meager living.
She essentially supports the family while her husband is not allowed to make a living which hinders his ability to be the man of his house.
Grange Copeland does not recognize this in the beginning.
I chose this book to read for Black History Month and out of respect for Alice Walker's writing.Walker succeeded in portraying a disturbing story of emasculated blacks during Reconstruction. Her writing is forthright and clear. I found the amount of domestic violence disturbing to the point where I almost set the book down unfinished. Redemption does occur in the end, but the book was emotionally wrenching for this reader.
Hard-hitting writing from Alice Walker once again. This is the second novel I've read by her; the first being one of my all-time favourites, 'The Colour Purple.' No holds barred as she describes the bleakest scenarios, the most despicable characters and a desperate future.
While I have wanted to read Alice Walker for awhile now, I hadn't gotten around to it until I was assigned this book in my Contemporary Black Women Writers Class.
Walker tells dark and twisted stories of the black experience effortless, almost to the point where startling events would take me by surprise.
I really liked how Grange evolved over the course of the novel, which especially came out during his final confrontation with Brownfield and Josie near the end of the book.
Ruth was a wonderful character who I really enjoyed reading about, and watching the events of Grange and Brownfield's tumultuous relationship unfold through her eyes made the events take on a unique flavor.
I could not make it all the way through this novel the degradation of the female character was unbearable for me to read.
This book was a requirement for my African American woman's lit class and I loved my teacher and the coursework but I could not deal with the violent death of the female character.
The book shares an important message about abuse, poverty and male/female relations.
I just physically could not force myself to read that horrible scene where after physically and emotionally abuses his wife until she has no fight left and he kills her.
My husband and I read this together, kinda completely by accident.!
It was just so interesting when I began to read it, in the first chapter, I asked if he wanted to hear it, and next thing we knew we read the whole book.
Alice Walker possesses a beautiful ability with finding the right ways, in the framing of one sentence, to showcase a person's character, their personality, the essence of the soul and the way they fit within a culture.
It's neither a short nor a long read, it's something in between, but it flows and you're transported suddenly into this old world of Georgia.
Let me begin (and maybe end) with this "Alice Walker writes with honesty, truth and dignity".
Now this story is not only about Grange Copeland, but in a way it is about black families and communities during that time, and unfortunately now.
Little has changed.
She does not describe or tell us there is racism, or oppression she allows us to experience it and feel it for ourselves through her characters.
It is the story of America and its history.
It is the story of humanity, of human nature.
How there is always a chance to right any wrongs committed or change our paths.
It is simply put Alice Walker.
Of all the Alice Walker books I've read, this is the best - even better than Color Purple (and I loved that one).Reading this book was an emotional journey of sorts - it tugged at my heart strings, it made me feel rage, shock and also made me laugh. The emotional journey is what made the book experience for me. Alice Walker wrote in such an intimate way, it made the story seem like an autobiography - true lived experiences.I would most definitely recommend this book to anyone and this my MOST FAVORITE Alice Walker book.
Walker's writing is not as mature as in her later works, but this book is just so powerful. Grange Copeland--product of a society that emasculates black men--creates a tragic legacy in his son, Brownfield. The chapter after Brownfield marries is one of the most intensely emotional things I've ever read. The book shows Grange's redemption through his granddaughter. Walker's indictment of Southern society is embodied in the struggles of three generations of a family that finally is able to overcome the tragic cycle of violence and abuse that societal racism creates.
Very well-written, truthful, and deeply disturbing. For all it's compelling story, I can't say I like it, or imagine who I recommend it to. I can understand why some people find The Color Purple too happy at the end, but this book has so little hope. As I said, it's truthful, but seems so slanted towards the negative that any moment of life, satisfaction, joy, even contentedness as not allowed. Bleak.
Perfect readPainful truths are what Ms. Walker gives. I love and hate some of the characters. Men and women with strengths so tangible it's like you've met them before. She along with Zora and Toni will forever be my favorite writers because they have given me the courage to face my fears like the warrior I am.
I got through this book, at first very much enjoying it at a surface level, and then began laboring through it just to be done with it. It's a quick read that might be worth it if you have the time. I was disappointed in the narrative and character development--it was all a little too obvious and simplified. Toni Morrison this woman is not.
This book is well written, has beautiful character development, and the settings are very realistic. Alice Walker is definitely due her props. With this said, it was way too violent for me. I understand that the violence went with the character development, however it was difficult to read.
I read this book for my English class, it's not something I would normally read but it was so good I read it in four days. This book discussed harsh violence of the black people in the south. Especially the wives, the violence from their husbands and the white men
AmazingThis book was amazing. Grange Copeland started off as a man you couldn't stand but evolved to something else. Alice walker pulls you into a time when it was hard for black families but gives you an understanding perspective. Loved it from beginning to the end.
I loved every moment of this book.
This novel tore out my heart, stomped on it and put it back in, bleeding for all the injustices in the world. It is even more moving than "The Color Purple".
This book took me on a whole roller coaster of emotion. Hope, feat, desperation, and perspective tied together in brilliant writing. I’m so so happy I stumbled upon this gem.
A stunning piece of literature. A Masterpiece.
Probably 4.5, actually -- my favorite of Alice Walker's works, and that's saying lot. One of the ones in my bookshelf that gets loaned out a lot and returned with a stellar review!
How did I miss this book?Walker truly is a genius. A very disturbing but eminently worthwhile read! It should be required reading for all Americans.
