https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316943.Selected_Poems
And I love the way in which Frost writes poetry.
A road split in two represents a part of the human experience that I can now only think of in the terms Frost put them in.
It also means that his poetry does not all feel the same; some poems are vastly different to each other.
Since I was a little girl, Frost could do no wrong. He still can't. The cadence of his lines, the lucidity of his poetry, always transports me. I'm a little upset that my edition isn't listed here on GR though. Mine has quite a few more poems from his earlier and later life.
we make ourselves a place apart / behind light words that tease and flout / but oh, the agitated heart / till someone find us really out // 'Revelation'
Ah, Robert Frost: the man who convinced me that I hated poetry.
Years ago, I was assigned to read some of his poetry for school and, let's just say, I read them as if I was taking cough-syrup.
I hate cough-syrup.
Good times...) Anyhow, so I didn't enjoy his poems because I was reading them with the wrong attitude &c.
He'll never be my favourite poet, but I don't hate him.
The poem "Birches" was my favourite, I think.)
Drama: awesome. Form: pleasurable. Theme: Got a little fed up with all that personifying nature/alackadaying that nature can't be personified. Here's the best antidote:It's a strange courageyou give me, ancient star:Shine alone in the sunrisetoward which you lend no part!IShine alone, shine nakedly, shine like bronzethat reflects neither my face nor any inner partof my being, shine like fire, that mirrors nothing.IILend no part to any humanity that suffusesyou in its own light.Be not chimera of morning,Half-man, half-star.Be not an intelligence,Like a widow's birdOr an old horse.WALLACE STEVENSNuances of a Theme by Williams
I always enjoy a discussion in which no doubt I will eventually say "But the name of that poem is 'The Road Not Taken' and that takes the poem off in a totally different direction." I haven't read a lot of poetry, but have read much Ginsberg ("Howl" is a must for all readers, imho) and Merrill as of late.
And so far, I haven't read any poetry collection as good as James Merrill's stunning "A Scattering of Salts." (A five-star rating from me.) This is a relatively new genre from my reading perspective, and I know there is a lot out there just waiting!
A time to talk.When a friend calls to me from the roadAnd slows his horse to a meaning walk,I don't stand still and look aroundOn all the hills I haven't hoed,And a shout from where I am, What is it?No, not as there is a time to talk.I thrust my hoe in the mellow ground,Blade-end up and five feet tall,And plod: I go up to the stone wallFor a friendly visit.What's not to love about a poem or this poet?
"A whole generation influenced and moved by a "Boy's will".He has a true juvenile dialogue with his readers.On Greece he shows a remarkable knowledge of History;but my favorite is "The road not taken "a philosophical poetry about the choices we made in our lives".
This was a great book filled with emotion! Many of the poems made me think about the choices in life more and made me want to keep rereading it. I recommend this book to anyone that loves poetry.
his poems are very down-to-earth yet very profound at the same time.I like his sense of humor and wisdom.
“A Boy’s Will,” “North of Boston,” and “Mountain Interval” are all part of Frost’s early work and they came out in a relatively short span: 1913, 1914, and 1916, respectively.
The poems of the first collection feature many shorter poems that are rhymed and metered.
The last collection features Frost’s most famous poem, “The Road Not Taken,” and contains many poems that are similar to that one in that they have more of the lyric quality of “A Boy’s Will” but take the form of a short meditation.
Nature features in Frost’s poems, but is largely secondary to the human element—a setting not a subject.
*2.5*i don't think robert frost might be the poet for me.
although some of the poems in this collection i enjoyed, most of them fell quite flat with me.
not that i disliked his work but it wasn't that i particularly liked it either.
i'm pretty sure if i had encountered his work during a lecture and properly discussed them inside an academic setting, my opinion of him would be different.
it's happened before with other poets.
however, i can't really change my reading experience at this point and i seriously doubt i will be encountering robert frost's poetry in my near academic future.
In the course of my reading life, I have not taken the time to read much poetry. This collection of Robert Frost's poems was at my house, so I decided to read it. I have mixed feelings about this reading experience, because on one hand Frost painted beautiful pictures with few words. However, I feel like I did not fully grasp the meaning of some of the poems.I want to try reading the poetry of Emily Dickinson and E.E. Cummings, so I will be giving poetry reading another try!Final rating: 2.5
I took the time during a wind storm to sit and read Robert Frost's collection of poems as the wind howled.
Frost often writes about nature and the world around him.
In his last years, he lived in the quiet woods of Vermont.
I am particularly fond of "Reluctance" as he describes the end of the fall season, the end of love and the reluctance to accept the end of seasons and the end of love.
Vermont has long cold winters.
I feel the same as we begin the long winters in Buffalo.
Perfectly worded, reluctance.
Once I started, I devoured this book.
I fell in love with Frost's poetry as a kid. Re-visiting his work in this volume didn't disappoint. It was perfect for nibbling on in the evenings. Nothing quite like poetry to calm the soul. I was surprised that my favorite poems were not the 'rhyme' type - but the long form (5-10 pages) that told a story. There were probably a dozen or so of these sprinkled throughout this collection, and each of them drew me in and kept me rapt from the first line.
I like The Road Not Taken but honestly most of his other poems were difficult to get through. Not for me.
Listening to audio of Frost reading some of his poems, there's no denying how thoughtful and genuine he was, seemingly capturing exact moments in his life like a realist painter.
I just recently started really getting into poetry and I absolutely loooooove all of Robert Frost's works that I've gotten a chance to read
There's a reason Frost is considered one of America's best poets. He just writes like home. Before reading this book, I didn't know that some of his poems are actually more like short stories composed entirely of dialogue, and I really enjoyed many of them.
I love me some Frost poetry, some of his work nearly ingrained in my brain and among my favorite poems. Not that I love all that he did, and sometimes he seems almost lazy (shame on me), but when he is on there is almost no one as good. To me he always seemed like the guy next door, writing for his love and for his community and getting famous almost be accident.
I'm defiantly not a great poet,and you can bet that I know itReading this book is a challenge and funYet, I'm not quite sure I will ever get doneSo for now on my shelf I'll let it stay And try to visit it again: Come what may!
Robert Frost, A four time winner of the Pulitzer prize for poetry creates a new poetry book called " Selected poems".
There are alot of themes from the poems in the book, Selected poems.
Another I loved about this book was the authors Writing style.
For example, In "Early Poems" His writing style was Very imaginative, Descriptive, and overall very inspiring.
I found that some of his poems like "Greece" had not too much flow to the poem, So when I read the poem, it sounded very awkward.Overall, this book is very good and should be recommended to people that ether love poetry, or want to learn poetry from an expert like Robert Frost.
I would probably rate this around a 3.5 if that were an option.I have long loved "The Road Not Taken", which not only highlights this edition, but is among my most favorite poems ever!I shall be telling this with a sighSomewhere ages and ages hence:Two roads diverged in a wood, and I-I took the one less traveled by,And that has mad all the difference.Other than that, I am unfamiliar with the rest of frost's work, or at the very least amunable to recall any to mind.
I must say that in totality I do not place his full body of work among my favorites, but that does not mean that he is not very good, or that I did not enjoy a good many.
Here they are: Robert Frost poems.I don't remember which are in this volume, but here is one:The Need of Being Versed in Country Things The house had gone to bring again To the midnight sky a sunset glow.
The birds that came to it through the air At broken windows flew out and in, Their murmur more like the sigh we sigh From too much dwelling on what has been.
But though they rejoiced in the nest they kept, One had to be versed in country things Not to believe the phoebes wept.
This early collection shows Frost is an expert poet, exhibiting mastery of his particular brand of pastoral, and often bleak, verse writing.
Despite this being a collection of considerable size I was hard-pressed to find a piece that wasn't worth the read.
The varied pace of the works makes it a particular engaging reading experience.Like most volumes of verse, this is definitely a book to be read over a number of sittings.
Frost's style and often heavy subject matter makes reading for long periods draining, but no less rewarding.Worth seeking out, especially if you're unfamiliar with Frost's work.
The pasture, Home Burial, The Tuft of Flowers, Mending the wall, Birches, Reluctance, A late walk, F
Robert Frost is a great starting point for anyone looking to get into poetry, and this a great place to learn about his work.
It's comprised of the authors first three books of poetry "A Boy's Will," "North of Boston" and "Mountain Interval," as well as some early poems from Frost.
Frost is considered one of the great American poets and in this book you see why.
I question the choice to include the early stuff but that's my only gripe.
This is a fantastic collection that will satisfy Frost fans and is accessible for newcomers.

Here further up the mountain slopeThan there was every any hope,My father built, enclosed a spring,Strung chains of wall round everything,Subdued the growth of earth to grass,And brought our various lives to pass.A dozen girls and boys we were.The mountain seemed to like the stir,And made of us a little while-With always something in her smile.Today she wouldn't know our name.(No girl's, of course, has stayed the same.)The mountain pushed us off her knees.And now her lap is full of trees.
Received this book as a gift from a professor of mine, and it could not have been more appropriate for the season. Gritty imagery and creative metaphors are the heart of this book. Frost is a more subtle poet than I had anticipated; though he is not afraid to write mournfully, his sadness is so tastefully expressed that you'll want more. Personal favorites: Wind and Window Flower + To the Thawing Wind, Pan With Us, The Road Not Taken (of course), Bond and FreeQuick read, great choice for when the trees are skeletal and the air outside is freezing.
