https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367802.Collected_Poems
A process in the weather of the heartA process in the weather of the heartTurns damp to dry; the gol
Translator pauses then says to Sarah "The gentleman says that he is calling from Brazil and asks if you would be willing to perform oral sex for him.
He has money to pay." Sarah doesn't lose the beat and says "Can you please explain that it appears he may have the incorrect telephone number and that we are a clinical trial management company." Translator turns that into Portuguese.
Sarah thanks the translator and the call ends.In this analogy, we are all Sarah, every literary critic who's ever written about Dylan Thomas is the translator, and Dylan Thomas is some dickhead from Brazil who sounds so beautiful until you find out he's talking about oral sex all the time.
Reading this collection transported me to another time and place in my life.
Girl, music, atmosphere and the words of Cohen.
So what has this to do with Collected Poems , 1934-1952 by Dylan Thomas?
Think about Cohen's songs and poems: love, sex, religion, death - all served up in a dark, damp atmosphere that is so like our own lives.
A bit of Dylan Thomas (from the poem 'If I were tickled by the rub of love):"I sit and watch the worm beneath my nail Wearing the quick away.
(How Leonard Cohen is that?) (Dylan Thomas would have met her in the bar.)

Dylan Thomas was first recognized after the publication in 1934 of "Light Breaks Where No Sun Shines".
(more)Critics wrote that his work is "too narrow and suffers from verbal extravagance".
Robert Lowell wrote "he is a dazzling obscure writer who can be enjoyed without understanding".
In my reading of his poems, I can understand the critics's view, but I agree with Robert Lowell.In his poem Elegy, Thomas wrote  O deepest wound of all that he should die On that darkest day.
Until I die he will not leave my side.Dylan Thomas died in New York City in 1953.
I could understand why my musician friends liked the stuff.
The other was music's cousin, poetry.Thank heavens I was forced to read so much poetry in the public schools!
Time constraints being what they were, the poems that were assigned in some classes were read quickly, silently and with little enjoyment.
The music was lost, only the concepts were obtained, enough to get by in class.
Not being sleepy, not liking my typically self-critical thoughts, I had prudentially grabbed a book, Collected Poems of Dylan Thomas.
Reading was slow going, distractive, the mind going hither and yon much like the eels.
Untangling his syntax and his associations makes for some interesting reading all its own.His name meant "wave", as in the ocean, in Welsh.He said his three biggest influences were Yeats (I think), The Bible, and Freud.Imagine this simmering stew, this cauldron if you will, and you've got yourself something rich, evocative, stormy, and powerful.It's the goshdarn lifeforce incarnate.
Go to the smaller, more obscure poems first.
And there's that rich history of pseudo-gaelic that makes the language edible and raw and bone-blunt.
I can't even focus on it too well since he is so visceral and obscure in all the best ways.
"Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day;Rage, rage against the dying of the light.Though wise men at their end know dark is right,Because their words had forked no lightning theyDo not go gentle into that good night.Good men, the last wave by, crying how brightTheir frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,Rage, rage against the dying of the light.Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,Do not
"Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day;Rage, rage again
2.5*Call me a philistine by all means.
The sad truth is that the Welsh word wizard failed to rock my boat.
But I struggled to find meanings.
Normally after a couple of readings I ‘get it’ (or at least some of the poet’s vibe) but I generally failed miserably here and I got crosser and crosser [probably more with myself than D.T.]There were of course some wonderful exceptions: Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night, the unfinished Elegy, again about the death of his father.
This may well convey the riches that I’ve missed here in my hopeless reading.
YES.
(178)Or maybe we should turn to II of I See The Boys Of Summer:But seasons must be challenged or they totterInto a chiming quarterWhere, punctual as death, we ring the stars;There, in his night, the black-tongued bellsThe sleepy man of winter pulls,Nor blows back mon-and-midnight as she blows.” (2)At times the language is absolutely haunting, as in the finish to To-Day, This Insect:Death: death of Hamlet and the nightmare madmen,An air-drawn windmill on a wooden horse,John’s beast, Job’s patience, and the fibs of vision,Greek in the Irish sea the ageless voice:‘Adam I love, my madmen’s love is endless,No tell-tale love has an end more certain,All legends’ sweethearts on a tree of stories,My cross of tales behind the fabulous curtain.’ (48)What does it all mean?
I tried to like it.
God knows how hard I tried.
Much of his stuff really seems like a word game to him.
I love the thought of pushing language to it's furthest limits and seeing what emotional/intuitive stuff it's made of, but so much at this level was lost to me.
I feel like I could have progressed much farther with someone to help me through it.I hate giving a low rating to a book that I think has a lot of potential, but I have to be honest and say that it fell short of really moving me.
Each preceding line sets up the final point with gravitas.Not so with Thomas.His takeaway line occurs at the beginning, with expansion on the line building out from stanza to stanza.Much like my trip to Mt. Si, reading Collected Poems gave me a better understanding of an author I thought I knew.
Hey, even if you’ve never heard of Dylan Thomas and you generally like poetry, Collected Poems is worth your time.Originally published at http://www.wherepenmeetspaper.com
Later, in grad school at Minnesota, I set Dylan Thomas's "Death Shall Have No Dominion" to music,SATB, organ, fleugel horn, cello and trombone.
(It's on google+, linked to "Blues for AJ Take One" on Youtube.) I memorized a half hour of DT,not that easy, for Fern Hill has half lines where the mind can skip forward to a similar half-line.Later still we toured Wales four times, and stopped in Laugharne at a B&B which was previously a bar where the poet hung out.
No go, "But you can recite some of his poems." I,"No, like Dylan Thomas, I only recite when remunerated--if only by tea."

In Interstellar Movie,DR.Bernard "Michael Chaine"kept repeating these lines,of one of the remarkable poems of the heavenly-gifted poet Dylan Thomas:"Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day,Rage,rage against the dying of the light"Christopher Nolan the distinguished director,quoted the lines of one of the most influential poets of the twentieth century, and one of my favorites no question...Oh,unique,genius,inspiring welsh poetRest in peace Dear Dylan,Rest in ETERNAL PEACE...
Magnificent.


From Dylan Thomas's introduction to this volume:"I read somewhere of a shepherd who, when asked why he made, from within fairy rings, ritual observances to the moon to protect his flocks, replied: "I'd be a damn' fool if I didn't!" These poems, with all their crudities, doubts, and confusions, are written for the love of Man and in praise of God, and I'd be a damn' fool if they weren't."A very human introduction to the most inventive and powerful collection of poetry ever written in the English language.I find that I can enjoy his language only a little bit at a time; it is too much to bear.
I don't pretend to understand a lot of his work, but I love it.
"Though lovers be lost, love shall not And death shall have no dominion." I mean, come on!And in spite of its popularity, "Do not go gentle into that good night" has lost no power for me.
It is well known for good reason.Read his poems!
Don't worry about understanding them!
Dylan Thomas is the shit, basically.
Though wise men at their end know dark is right,Because their words had forked no lightning theyDo not go gentle into that good night...Rage, rage against the dying of the light
This is my holy bible.I feel out of place without it.Favorite passages soon to follow.
"Do Not Go Gentle" is usually the way young people find Thomas, or at least people of my generation who walked around quoting the hot guy from the Michelle Pfeiffer flick, Dangerous Minds: "You've got to RAGE against the DYING of the LIGHT!" That dude dies because he doesn't knock on a door.
I thought that an entire collection of raging against death could not be so gloomy.I wanted to slit my wrists with the pages of the book by the time I was halfway into it.
I guess it is the music that is alive in Thomas' poetry that makes it come alive for me.
This is the "sabbath" of my life - the spirit of life in the music of poetry.
I don't do poetry.
However, this collection is what I would wish to take to my desert island.
Richard Burton took this book to his grave.
I prefer the desert island idea.
'Do not go gentle into that good night' must be one of my favourite poems.
Monumental stuff.
The bard of the 20th century.
I went on pilgrimage to Laugharne to visit his house.The collection I keep like a bible.
I can take this down from the shelf and just open it at any page.
My paperback is titled Collected Poems 1934-1953.
What can I say? Still my all-time favorite. Maddeningly dense and self-absorbed in places, but always a master of language and sound. The closer you look, the more you see just how carefully constructed the poems are, and how he pulls off complicated structures with disarming ease. Just hearing the poems out loud is a transcendent experience, and many of the best are available online in his voice.
This collection has the great poems “Fern Hill” and “Light Breaks Where No Sun Shines”. This collection also holds one of my personal favorite poems of all times, the simple yet majestic “I Have Longed To Move Away”. This book is a great introduction to Thomas’s work.
I'm just absolutely gutted. Extraordinary stuff in here. And you, my father, there on the sad height,Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.Do not go gentle into that good night.Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
