https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/507932.Orphan_Star
Sure, it took a few years before ADF pumped out the second published novel (or third, chronologically,) but the story sure as hell popped along.At first glance and in Flinx's mental flavor, it's so easy to fall into the trap of thinking this might be a YA title of '77 before we got all clunky with terms.
Indeed, it feels more like a more polished and popping Heinlein juvenile, full of tough situations and some truly nasty crap going on while a basically good-hearted 17-year-old with untested mental telepathy and a fiercely loyal mini-drag tries to discover his past.

I had read the earlier Flinx & Pip book and was looking for more of the same.
At the time, I thought Foster was the best of the limited sci-fi readings I had completed.
This review is for the re-read of this book, this time on audio, roughly 36 years later.
This time around, I found Flinx & Pip still have some appeal, but I see that this story is stretched.
I've dropped a few stars off of what I would have given this book when I first read it.
This is my favorite of all of Foster's Flinx books.
In my opinion, it adds the most of the overal story of Flinx, while being a great chase story.
Foster is great at depicting future worlds, and this novels provides glimpses of many keys worlds in the Commonwealth.
If you are coming to Foster's Commonwealth/Flinx novels for the first time, I recommend reading The Tar-Aiym Krang, Orphan Star, and The End of the Matter first.
While For Love of Mother-Not is chronically earlier, Foster's view of the character had changed drastically in the years since he had finished The End of the Matter, and the difference shows.
It’s not my favorite novel in the world, but it’s definitely worth a read if you like cross-universe journeys, coming-of-age stories, and alien cultures with more than just physical differences.
I liked Teleen, though her motives were a little weak (view spoiler)[regarding keeping Flinx alive (hide spoiler)].
There was a character from the previous novel who returned (view spoiler)[ and what I like about this guy, the Baron, is that he’s not an idiot.
I liked the subtle changes to human expressions that she uses.The plot is exciting and unexpected, but it’s full of many coincidences, one of which is kind of useless (view spoiler)[ Syl is Truzenzuzux’s niece?
Enjoyed this a lot. I thought this was going to be more in the humor category of SF with names like Pip & Flinx. It wasn't - just a solid SF adventure. Now have to find the other books.
I've never read this series before, but got the audiobook for the third novel about a boy named Flinx and his killer flying mini-dragon Pip. He is first kidnapped by a rather evil businessman who wants to exploit Flinx's mental powers.
Even though the book is almost 40 years old now, you could hardly ever tell it which is a testament to the author's imagination.
Also since I came in without reading the prior books, it did take me more time to understand what was going on.The narration was really very great.
If I had known this was the second in the series before picking it up, I would have held off until I had had a chance to read the first.
But since there was no indication otherwise on the cover (or anywhere else on the book), I assumed Orphan Star marked the beginning of the series.
This led to some confusion, since half of this book consists of references to the events of the previous book.The story has promise, so I may track down the first book, reread this one, and change my rating, but there are a lot of things that fall flat.
That being said, I'd like to give some of his other books a chance before completely writing him off.
So I'm re-reading my Alan Dean Foster collection and I started with Orphan Star, which, yes, is technically Book 3 in the 'series' but I sort of consider this series like Anne McCaffrey Tower and Hive Series - it's a series I can just reach for any book, pick that book up, read it and know instantly I am at home in that universe.I found re-reading this book very enjoyable.
Seriously, I miss this archetype, and it's weird that I have to read books from 41 years ago to hunt for male characters I can appreciate.
It was an incredible revelation to me as a reader and I am SO glad I read this book first.
AUSTRALIA IS IN THIS BOOK.
Flinx is incredibly lovable as a character.
This is the second Pip & Flinx book I’ve read now, and I love it! As fun and lighthearted as they are, they’re also extremely elaborate. Foster has created an incredible multi-planet universe, and he somehow presents it to us without info-dumping!! He treats all situations, all alien creatures, and all environments so naturally it’s as if they’re all real and beyond question. And speaking of alien creatures, they are on par with Robert Silverberg, in that they are remarkably unique and complex. I’m sold on the rest of the series.
3,5/5. Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο προσφέρει μία ενδιαφέρουσα και συμπαγή ιστορία επιστημονικής φαντασίας με έναν ωραία αναπτυγμένο κεντρικό χαρακτήρα. Αν και αποτελεί μέρος ανθολογίας, διαβάζεται αυτόνομα καθώς πρόκειται για μία νέα περιπέτεια. Βέβαια γίνονται κάποιες αναφορές στο πρώτο βιβλίο, αλλά δεν κάνουν την κατανόηση δύσκολη. Η βαθμολογία ίσως να ήταν μεγαλύτερη εάν είχα διαβάσει το πρωτότυπο αντί της ελληνικής έκδοσης με τίτλο "Απαγορευμένος Πλανήτης". Σε αρκετά σημεία η ιστορία φάνηκε να αδικείται από τη μετάφραση.
Much better nowI started to read this story many years ago & just couldn't get through it. When I saw it on sale in though I would try again & it is a very good book. Well written with interesting characters. The story isn't one of continuous action but it does create very interesting situations that make you wonder how Flinx will get out of this one alive.
Another awesome addition to the tales of Flinx and Pip. ADF continues to spellbind readers with his storytelling magic.
Just as enjoyable as the first time I read this in 1979!
Supposedly this is #4 (after Bloodhype, which is not supposed to be good) but it's the first of the series that I read. Good enough to go back to read #1 and 2. Will continue with the rest.
The second book in this series I read, although I apparently missed something between this and For Love of Mother-Not. It wasn't too big an issue.The world building is still a lot of fun.
Flinx gets off-planet this time, chasing somebody who apparently know something about his past, although what we find out in this book seems to contradict what we found out in For Love of Mother-Not. I thought Flinx was supposed to be some sort of science experiment, but that's not referenced at all here.

This isn't a particularly bad book, but neither is it a particularly good book.The writing is fluid, so no problem there. It's just that it's very much a pulpy space fantasy that I felt would probably appeal better to younger readers than myself.I also hadn't realized this was part of a series, so I may have missed further meaning in some of the references.
I've been wanting to get caught up in this series for a while, but it's been so long since I read any of the books I decided to start over.
I've enjoyed the narration so far, so hope to keep that us as much as I can.This book has Flinx being adbucted, and getting a hint about his parentage.
There is also a new character who will likely grow into a problem for Flinx.
That and his inventiveness and practicality.Now I'm really looking forward to reading the next book, which is The End of the Matter, though it clearly isn't the end of Flinx's story.
After a disastrous kidnapping attempt leaves him with an enticing tidbit of information, Flinx decides to leave Moth in search of his elusive heritage.
Flinx has exhibited virtually no interest in his heritage before now, and suddenly he's obsessed enough with it to chase a man across several worlds and possibly become a criminal in the process?
On the plus side, Flinx is now on to several new worlds, which means new places to explore.
The narrowed focus on Flinx and eventually one other character means the book can get more in depth with both of them.
The plot, until our heroes reach Mysterious Interdicted Planet, is a string of unlikely coincidences.
On Terra, Flinx concocts and elaborate plot to break into the supposedly highly restricted Church archives on Bali - only to find absolutely no one is bothered by his presence when he is revealed as an imposter.
In fact, everyone seem to bend over backwards to trust and help him.The novel really picks up when Flinx an the thranx he kidnaps (and who subsequently appears to develop the thranx equivalent of Stockholm syndrome towards him) arrive at Mysterious Planet.
Her major crime, presence on the forbidden planet, is one Flinx himself commits.
The second (or third depending on how you count them) in the Flinx and Pip series.
Compared to "The Tar-Aiym Krang" this is a much less exciting work for me, but is still a solid bit of space opera with a little detective tale thrown in.
I seem to recall more about the next work in the series, "The End of the Matter," than I remembered about "Orphan Star," so the next one promises to earn more stars.
I am hoping to read the entire Commonwealth stories including those not featuring Flinx and Pip. Foster is a very engaging non-pretentious writer.
The main plot of the third book in the Pip and Flinx series is pretty standard for the first half, as Flinx attempts to learn about his parents and narrowly escaped a few deadly situations through the help of his dragon Pip. As soon as the book shifts to a new planet quarantined under church edict the story switches to classic Alan Dean Foster alien story time.
The book ties in nicely to the events of The Tar-Aiym Krang, while also setting up future novels through the introduction of a major villain and a resourceful girl with abilities similar to Flinx.
The ethical questions posed by teaching a sentient alien race about civilization (and more to the point, war) kept me enthralled for the entire last third of the book.
Book ThreeFlinx is still 17 years old and is kidnapped by a wealthy merchant because of his mental abilities.
She's the child that the Society had attempted to approach directly in book one.
When Flinx finally is able to leave, he has a clue as to who his true Mother is, and the rest of this book is concerned with a search for more information.
More of a focus on the United Church, having heard of it in the last two books we now get a good look at it's working and set up.
The first 3 or 4 books of this series were out when I was younger, and Flinx fired my imagination with his psionic talents, his flying, venom spitting snake, pip, and him being an orphan raised on the streets.Pip & Flinx start looking for some clues to Flinx's past and parentage.
The series is now something like 13 books and his mental talents are still unreliable and pretty much useless; this was a very, very, very big disappointment to me for the series as a whole.
1983 grade B2003 grade B+2018 grade B+/A-Series book F3Flinx is age 17The second novel written in the Flinx series picks up back on his home base planet with only a few months passed.
Flinx was pretty much mentally omnipotent at the end of the first book, a hard situation to write about.
Foster handled the transition very well by making the powers erratic so Flinx does not depend on them.
Other than that, the story telling is still grade A, and it became a must continue reading fairly quickly.This is a recommended book.
Aside from giggling at 2000km cliffs, valleys thousands of kilometers deep, and a plateau 14 000km high that remain uncorrected in my 1977 copy of this novel, this was a neat read. I enjoyed this story and the sci-fi world that has been created. They made for lighthearted reading (for the most part). I quite like the different species present: the insectoid thranx, the reptilian AAnn, and the ursinoid aliens we encounter at the end of the book. It didn't end entirely satisfactory for me, but as there are sequels, I am not too concerned.
The main storyline in this book was actually logical, every orphan child would wish to find his own roots and parents, which Flinx did too. The whole point of the main storyline as such was Flinx path on which he discovered something about his parents. There is secondary storyline through the story too, which was an interesting mix in the general picture. I really liked natives of Ulru-Ujur, they were amazingly nice and good!
This is the Third Pip & Flinx book (plus two short stories) and sixth Humanx Commonwealth book that I have read. The introduction of the new race of ursine creatures within this book is my current favorite. I can't wait to see them turn up again in future commonwealth books. Great story, but that is what I have come to expect from this author.
Only 4 star again because the book seems unfinished like the last one. I also am confused about one thing, in previous books we have learned that the Thranx and water do not mix as they sink and don't float yet in this book in one part on terra some of them are body surfing and apparently float well enough to do so while a human is "riding" them?How did that happen?
