https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431584.Martha_Quest
She read as if this were a process discovered by herself; as if there had never been a guide to it. She read like a bird collecting twigs for a nest. She picked up each new book, using the author’s name as a sanction, as if the book were something separate and self-contained, a world in itself.   For Martha, life was more than a shelter of similar ideologies. She did not want to become a monomaniac; rather, she was interested in exploring and understanding culture and thought, similarities and
Fifteen-year old Martha Quest lives on a farm in Southern Africa, with her colonist parents.
Racial tensions appear ablaze, and soon, Martha finds herself having discussions (and arguments) with her parents and friends, because she soon noticed that her thoughts were different: "She marched, in imagination, down the street, one of the file, feeling the oppression of a police state as if it were heavy on her…”Enters Joss: Martha’s Jewish friend and book buddy.
How I wish the book had more of Joss, the intellectual introvert and the only man I believe Martha truly loved.

She argues with her mother, she does aimlessly well at school, she reads whatever she can obtain from a shop at the tiny trading station half a day's walk away, and she struggles to understand the characteristics with which the various gradations of class, race and circumstance have endowed her:She was adolescent, and therefore bound to be unhappy; British, and therefore uneasy and defensive; in the fourth decade of the twentieth century, and therefore inescapably beset with problems of race and class; female, and obliged to repudiate the shackled women of the past.Martha tries her hardest to look past people's race or nationality, but the social and political realities make this impossible – it is, she says despairingly, ‘as if the principle of separateness was bred from the very soil, the sky, the driving sun’.
Someone called her the “reluctant heroine”, the Nobel Literature prize recipient of 2007, Doris Lessing.  At 88, she still heard voices from her childhood. She had been born in Persia; then lived in South Rhodesia (what’s today Zimbabwe). At that age she feared for our present civilization: “it’s going to dissolve”:” the precarious patterns of civilization we set”; “we’re living the collapse of society”. Julian Mitchell, a friend of Lessing, said about her: “Africa is her soul”; he implied she
Her bedroom is full of books: of poetry (Shelley, Whitman…), of memoires of Lloyd George… and war narratives; but she resists reading HG Wells.
Like this Havelock Ellis book…her mother thinks it’s not good.Martha smokes and reads about the British Empire decadence, the book, …while holding her gun.
It’s high time for Martha to find her own way and dare to challenge costumes; even going by herself, alone, walking through “dangerous roads” till the 50-people- village.
Joss Cohen, the preferred brother, had sent her economy books!!
Joss Cohen likes economy and sociology books.
Oh, if I could have back and live again the years of my life between sixteen and twenty, when I too (despite having parents entirely unlike Martha's, who instead of swaddling my spirit and cramping my mind, taught me joy and set me free) was pulled helplessly by forces I perceived to be outside me, but were actually my socialisation!I feel that Lessing is cultivating shoots of political awareness in this phase of Martha's story to bear fruit later.
There were times at the beginning when what was on display - Martha’s musings - did not fully enchant me, but those doubts did not last.Observing Martha as a young woman in pre-World War 2 Africa filled me with wonder because her experiences and the people she met reminded me of being that age in the late 80s and 90s, not that her details and my details were exact matches of course, but I developed a real affinity for Martha (and therefore Doris Lessing who was a contemporary of my grandparents!).
Intelligent, observant, and full of herself like most young people, Martha despises her conventional parents who've rather failed at this colonial farming venture, and likewise despises pretty much all of her friends, from the unfortunate Dutch Afrikaans family who befriends the Quests despite the seething resentments still lingering over the Boer War, to the Jewish boys who run the general store in town.Martha eschews racism and classism and considers herself a proper leftist, but she's young and not really firm in her convictions.
The book ends with her getting married to the most decent fellow she's met so far, but already there is disgruntlement in the air.So, why two stars?Lessing is a great writer.
Rebellious, seventeen year old Martha's mother doesn't approve of the way she handles her finances. "Well, it's my money!" snaps the daughter. Mom helpfully points out that she's not yet of age, and if it came down to a court case the judge would rule that she was within her rights in stopping Martha from making unwise purchases. But for some reason this doesn't improve matters.Teenage girls! Aren't they just impossible sometimes?
I made my Palin powersuit selections rather quickly, and while male friends tried on dresses and everyone browsed various clownish Fasnacht Guggämusik get-ups and put on smelly wigs, I went and found a couple Doris Lessing books and The Great Gatsby.It took me forever to get through the two 'Children of Violence' books I bought.
The perspectives Lessing explores through the volatile eyes of Martha Quest, a tragically attractive destitute farmgirl from an English family on the Veld in South Africa in the 30's, are myriad and surprising and fresh--and one can assume they were even more astonishing to readers at the time of the book's writing.
Martha Quest: In Search of One's SelfThis novel was read in conjunction with the group 2015: The Year of Reading Women/a>Review to follow. All things in moderation. Theraflu. Avoiding prose in the throes of delirium.
Truth is I'm mostly interested in reading the fifth book in the series, The Four-Gated City, but my brain can't just jump to the end of a series like that without reading the previous stories.As I mentioned in one of my status updates about this book, as much as I enjoyed reading it when I sat down with it, I kept thinking about Anna Wulf in The Golden Notebook.
Now, four years later while reading another book by Lessing, I realized that I think I really did appreciate The Golden Notebook more than I thought I had.
A multi-volume read as part of a group of Goodreaders?
Martha Quest, the eponymous character of this volume, grows up on a rural African farm, chatting with the local shopkeeper's boys who she relies on for books as well.
She's well-read, spunky, but definitely a product of her surroundings even if she is trying to escape them.
While I was frustrated with the ending of this volume, it won't stop me from finding out what happens next to Martha.
Doris Lessing tends to write very intriguing female characters, and I'm interested to see what where Martha will go next.
Doris Lessing is described as "one of the most serious, intelligent and honest writers of the whole post-war generation"(SUNDAY TIMES). I found her book curious. Although I appreciated her in-depth exploration of a young woman's transition from living with her parents on a sheltered farm in Africa to working in an urban setting with all its temptations, I had trouble liking the protagonist. She couldn't make up her mind, and all her flip-flopping was annoying. I couldn't wait to finish the book, but for the wrong reason.
Abrupt ending, inconsistent feelings of character, disheartening ending must all be forgiven when one takes into account that it's heavily autobiographical. Life is what it is. That being said, I probably wouldn't read it again.
A coming of age story. A story of a girls journey trying to deal with a mentally disconnected (results of war) father and a pathetically jealous mother. How she does this, is what broke my heart.
Lessing portrays the coming-of-age of her young protagonist through the use of fluid language that emphasizes the 'thing-whithin, the restless adolescent spirit, trapped inside a changing body she's still getting used to. Martha, who is fifteen at the beginning of the novel, feels stifled by her parents and surroundings. The impoverished farm in rural Rhodesia, ruled over by her disillusioned sickly father and her overbearing mother, is too narrow a setting for Martha, who hungers for books, exp
Her first encounters with men, dancing, drinking and sex repulse and enthrall her as she widens the horizon of the things she wants to know, love and be.
Lessing incisively criticizes the hypocrisy, racism and antisemitism of the white society of the British African colonies (a critique that doesn't spare Martha herself).
In Martha's world, young men pretend young women are pretty figurines to pet, kiss and flatter indiscriminately while being afraid of sex and real intimacy.
Martha does not care about a single human being in this book (she only has a nice thought to spare in regards to her boss Jasper Cohen who she likes instantly because he is very ugly and very kind).
The character of Martha Quest is many faceted, and I was very curious to see what happens in her life.
Martha is a person who involves herself fully in whatever she does, no half way measures; unfortunately that leads to rude awakenings in many aspects of her life.
The book, although well written sometimes feels like you're being politically brain washed, and that communism is the focal point of the story.
This novel ends with her total disillusionment with communism, another divorce, and her boarding a ship for England.
I thoroughly recommend this series if you're interested in a totally realistic story of a very interesting characters life.
The characters are introduced slowly, no doubt, but the time taken is worth the trouble in my honest opinion.
Told in a first person perspective and being a historical fiction-cum-autobiography of the author, you follow the story of Martha Quest living in South Rhodesia (modern day Zimbabwe), as she progresses to woman hood up till the point that she departs for England.
The story of course doesn't end there, since this is the first part of the Children of Violence series.I'll repeat again: the time taken is worth the trouble.
Trouble here means reading the book.
Belki indirimde kitap vardır diye yine D&R’a saldırdığım bir gün, rafları dolaşırken gördüm bu kitabı.
Kapağı çok hoşuma gitti.
Bana kahveli, battaniyeli kitap okuma isteği getirdi.
Romanı eylül başlarında katıldığım, kuzey ege turunda okuma fırsatı bulabildim.
Uzun otobüs yolcukları sırasında çok da güzel gitti.
Martha büyüyünce şehre göç eder, kendine yeni bir hayat kurar ve böylece Martha’nın maceraları başlar.
Martha’ya ilk başta sinir olsam da, sonra sevdim ve bağrıma bastım.
Belki bu kadar okuma isteğim olmasa, elimde gezinebilirdi Fakat uzun beni doyuracak klasik romanlara açtım.
Bu sebeple romanı sevdim.
Bana verdiği his hoşuma gitti.
Arada bir böyle kimsenin bilmediği değişik kitaplar okumayı seviyorum.
The first book of one of my favorite series, The Children of Violence quintet.
I read this for the first time about forty years ago.
It is semi-autobiographical -- I am re-reading the series before reading Lessing's autobiography, to see how close it is; Martha Quest, the heroine of the series, is taken from age 16 through her marriage in this volume (set in 1937-1939).
This is not the best book of the series, and it really owes its interest in large part to the protagonist's development in the later volumes, but it is psychologically "true to life" and a good description of the meaninglessness of life as a privileged minority (white colonists in Rhodesia), where thinking too much or too honestly can be dangerous to ones self image.
I read nonstop. I thought I had read it before, but it seemed completely new, so it must have been a long time ago. I went straight from the final page to the first page of "A Proper Marriage".
Nadine Gordimer ve Doris Lessing gibi yazarların dilleri, üsluplari, dertleri ve konuları ilgimi çekiyor. 30lu yaşlardan sonra okumalar ve keyif alınan üsluplar değişiyor sanırım. Doris Lessing'in fazlasıyla kadın gözünden hayata bakışını okumak ilginç ve çok güzel. Kıta Avrupasından uzakta 1930 larda Dünya Savaşının bireysel etkileri, göçmen bir İngiliz ailenin koloni yaşamı, renk mücadelesi, kırsal ve kentin savaşı, ergenlik, sınıf çatışması romandaki bazı konular.
Something like the little sister that frequently pisses you off with her pretentious idealisms and whiny protests against "The Man." (Or maybe something like yourself, five/ten/twenty years ago.) At points, it felt like I was reading an interlude-esque flashback about Anna Wulf (of Lessing's fantastic Golden Notebook), but at others, Martha seems so stunningly herself that you can't really fathom her being anything but what she presents in her narrative.
Like Caulfield, Martha is often a frustrating character, always at odds with herself, and full of herself the way a lot of smart, idealistic teens tend to be.
Lessing's approach to the character strikes me as more overtly ironic, since she does not focus everything through Martha's thoughts, rather allows us to get into a variety of different headspaces, panning out to a broader, more objective perspective as necessary.
As a result, we get a broader perspective on the kind of place Martha is born to, with its racial, ethnic, and class issues.
A coming-of-age realistic description of youthful intellectual femininity trying to find its place and meaning in a 1940's English colony inside Africa.
I'm amazed how this book is not more talked about; rarely has a feminine character been so beautifully described, as far as I know!
Martha Quest the character is young and full of unexplainable expectations for her future, and gets at the end of the book to simply fall somewhat into place expectedly and normally, in time with the times.
I also felt like she abandoned certain plot points and characters too quickly, and I can only hope that these people (especially Joss Cohen) will feature more heavily in the series after being introduced in the first book.
I hope that she finds her intellectual center as she grows, and we aren't always dealing with the vapid side of her that comes out at the Sport Club, but for the first book in the series I can appreciate how it depicts a difficult process.
I will keep reading the series, but I hope a little bit more happens in the next books.
I've never been a huge fan of coming of age stories, so I had some trepidation about starting this series.
The first book, Martha Quest, is, as others have said, somewhat expository, but major events certainly do take place in the protagonist's life.
Namely, leaving her parents' farm at sixteen to start out on her own in the city.There's also Martha's seemingly ongoing sexual awakening throughout the book, which I particularly enjoyed; rather than one big, cinematic event signifying the definition of her sexual journey, Lessing takes a more muddled approach, through a series of often fragmented encounters with boys that often leave Martha confused.
The protagonist, Martha, begins as a frustrated and rebellious teenager struggling to reject the values of her parents and those around her in favor of the idealism she has found in the books.
However, as she makes her way into the adult world, she finds it difficult to hang on to, or in fact even remember, the lofty ideals of her adolescence.
This is a book for a reader who is interested in the mind, human desires, and the way that people rationalize their choices rather than do the hard work necessary to pursue their ideals.
It would be easy to dislike the precocious, idealistic Martha as much as her vile mother at the beginning of this book.
But I think the reason for that is how easy it would also be to see ourselves in her.
Every teenager with a love of books and ideas beyond their years has looked at their parents in boredom or disgust at some point.Perhaps what made me take against her in the opening chapters was that she had reason to.
We learn that a lost love may be the reason for this.
As if Martha’s own youth and freedom had ended just as abruptly.
Africa was Lessing's home, but not her parents' home.
It's always worth saying, and discovering a wonderfully articulate version of protest, such as this, is inspiring and humbling.Why had I not read Lessing before?
I must examine my conscious, and truthfully it's because the subject is Africa.
Her books were never left around in my youth; I was not encouraged to read Lessing.
Perhaps it was because of the "mess" we thought Africa represented.
Why doesn't the above make this book more inviting to read?
