https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/985386.Case_Closed_Vol_1
I still remember going to a stand (yes a wooden stand) downstairs in my home town and begging my mom to buy my sister and I a copy of the series.
Each time we would buy 2 manga (one each) and I believe in my entire school, we (my sister and I) had the most Case Closed manga.
#NoShame #IRegretNothing Yeah...so this is less than a review and more of a life time childhood story...no biggie.
My love for this series cannot be described with fancy words.
I just want to say one thing...THANK YOU FOR MY CHILDHOOD!
I like it.. but the fact that I had memorized every case in this volume made reading it less fun :/but I'm willing to read all the volumes .. this is the only I'll catch up with the story, the anime will reach 900 episode soon!
Detektiv Conan kenne ich schon seit Jahren durch die Fernsehserie. Ich mochte die Serie immer und als ich nun mal anfangen wollte Mangas zu lesen, da erschien mir dies als sicherer Versuch.Ich wurde nicht enttäuscht. Der erste Band besteht aus 9 Fällen und beginnt damit, wie der berühmte Teenager-Detektiv Shinichi Kudo zu dem kleinen Jungen Conan wird und beginnt seine Fälle aus dem Hintergrund heraus zu lösen.Mir hat das Buch gut gefallen, die Fälle sind sehr kurz und lösen sich schnell auf, dennoch macht es Spaß zu lesen.
He visto capítulos sueltos aquí y allá del anime y he pensado que ya era hora de ponerme con el manga aunque es larguíííísimo.
Lo que más me gusta es que aunque haya una línea argumental común a toda la serie, cada episodio es muy corto y autoconclusivo.
En general, no suelo adivinar los misterios con alguna excepción y el autor sabe mezclar muy bien lo divertido con lo que es muy oscuro.
El primer tomo no me ha gustado tanto, creo que es porque estoy tan familiarizada con los primeros episodios que me ha dado un poco de pereza volver a leerlos.
I read this while over at my friend who's trash for Case Closed/Detective Conan and-I'M TRASH FOR DETECTIVE CONAN, but i absolutely hate this american edition because the names were changed and it's just plain dumb, the japanese major in me is just plain offended.But I love these characters, and this manga is so beautiful and smart. I still would rather recommend the anime ~
Yep, I still love this.
While spying in some shady men dressed in black, he gets caught and the made him drink a strange potion that turns him into a 6-year-old.
Well, he manages by going to live with his friend Ran and his father who happens to be a private eye, although not a good one.There's some things in this series that are pretty silly: first of all, the men in black make Conan drink an untested potion and don't stick around to see that it kill him.
So, it's mainly Conan solving cases but because no one takes a 6-year-old seriously, he must point Ran's father and the Inspector to the clues and similar stuff.
This book is where Kudo Shinichi solved a case that happened during a roller coaster ride and he followed this two looking suspicious men in black.
Once he lost his consciousness, the men in black who works for a secret organization tested a medicine they invented and Kudo was the first one to take it.
The police then came so men in black ran and left Kudo in the ground.
He's turned into a little boy cause of the medicine the men in black gave him...
I read this series when I was still living in China, which was a long time ago, just to put this into perspective.
(This series has  76 volumes published and is still ongoing.
I just cannot keep up with this series so I think this is why I abandoned it.But, (oh there is a but), if you are like me and enjoy mysteries, I highly recommend you  check out the 16 movies (also ongoing)  they have put out based on this manga series.
A majority of them are great and they are enough to satisfy a mystery lover (like me).
The plot has the perfect elements of the over arcing story of Conan's "men in black" and their mysterious poison that has shrunk him down to half the size he used to be but still twice the detective.
All without people knowing a six year old with the bow tie is working behind the scenes.This is the second time I'm reading the manga.
Last time around I got pretty far in but I have completely forgotten what book I last left off on and I don't want to miss thing!
These stories are really some of the best constructed mysteries I've ever read.
High school detective Shin'ichi is made to drink a strange chemical causing his body to shrink to that of a six year old, but, however, his mystery solving problems are retained... After assuming the title of Conan, he now realises that solving cases as a kid is a bit difficult, after all, who will listen to the whims of a kid? In this first volume he solves a be-heading, a kidnapping, and a murder...
First manga!
Dan terus terang, awalnya aku memandang manga ini sebelah mata, karena tema cerita orang dewasa yang menyusut jadi anak kecil sama sekali bukan hal istimewa bagiku.
Bukan plagiasi, tentunya, karena ceritanya sangat berbeda, hanya kondisi tokoh utamanya yang nyaris mirip meskipun terbalik: orang dewasa yang menyusut jadi sebesar anak TK berkat kekuatan ajaib fortune cookies, kondisi yang menyulitkannya untuk meraih cinta dan melindungi wanita cinta pertamanya.
Yeah, right, judul yang sangat tidak kreatif, tapi jelas menunjukkan inspirasinya berasal dari mana XDAnyway, kembali ke manga Detektif Conan, yang membuatku berubah pikiran dan menjadikan manga ini termasuk serial manga favoritku memang kisah detektifnya, meskipun aku cenderung lebih menggemari Hercule Poirot ketimbang Sherlock Holmes.
Case Closed vol.1 By: Samuel Lizarraga This review may or may not contain spoilers! In this Manga, a Junior in high school Jimmy Kudo uses his superb detective skills to solve mysteries that have left the police baffled! In the beginning of the book, Jimmy is with his good friend Rachel Moore also a junior in high school, when Rachel reminds Jimmy about a scheduled “date” that they had planned Jimmy freaks. Finally Jimmy decides to take her out to the fair. When they reach the fair Jimmy encoun
In this Manga, a Junior in high school Jimmy Kudo uses his superb detective skills to solve mysteries that have left the police baffled!
As they form a line to ride on one of the roller coasters, Jimmy sees two suspicious men in black.
As Jimmy interrogates the people that were aboard the ride when the crime happened, he notices that the two suspicious men in black were very nervous.
He wants to hunt down the mysterious men in black in order to get his adult body back.Case Closed is a marvelous novel with many suspenseful parts that I really enjoyed to read.
14 Sep 2015:Dari vol.1 sampe...yah, sekitar vol.30-an gitu masih seru...Lama-lama agak bosen, tapi tertarik lagi pas ada perkembangan tokoh-2nya atau kasus dengan kawanan jubah hitam (^,,^)Terakhir ini udah terbit vol.85-nya yang seru karena (view spoiler)[orang yang diduga tewas ternyata masih hidup ^ ^ (hide spoiler)]Tokoh favorit di komik ini : Profesor Agasa ヽ(o^―^o)ﾉ_____________02 Juli 2018:Beberapa hari lalu baca vol.92 dan 93-nya, dan mungkin karena sambil baca Kindaichi juga akhir-akhir
14 Sep 2015:Dari vol.1 sampe...yah, sekitar vol.30-an gitu masih seru...Lama-lama agak bosen, tapi tertarik lagi pas ada perkembangan tokoh-2nya atau kasus dengan kawanan jubah hitam (^,,^)Terakhir ini udah terbit vol.85-nya yang seru karena (view spoiler)[orang yang diduga tewas ternyata masih hidup ^ ^  (hide spoiler)]Tokoh favorit di komik ini : Profesor Agasa ヽ(o^―^o)ﾉ_____________02 Juli 2018:Beberapa hari lalu baca vol.92 dan 93-nya, dan mungkin karena sambil baca Kindaichi juga akhir-akhir ini, jadi Teringat-Kembali™ kenapa dulu lebih memilih Conan ^^ //bersiapmenghadapigempuranSelama ini, baca tiap volume yang diseling jeda cukup lama bikin aku "Haa..
which, instead of killing him, shrunk him down to the size of a first grader.Same diff.In order to make sure that he isn't rediscovered by his killers, he gives himself the name of Conan Edogawa, based off of two famous mystery writers.
He needs to obtain the poison in order to make an antidote to reverse the effects, because who would ever take a six-year-old crime solver seriously?(Honestly this isn't very spoilery.
There was a huge plot hole though that was never adressed: (view spoiler)[If the guy faking his suicide fell backwards onto the knife, how the heck did he end up being found on his stomach?
-Pertama kalinya Ran mencurigai identitas Conan + klien yang mendapat hadiah misterius (3)-Bom di kereta + petualangan mencari harta (4)-Moonlight Sonata (7)-Reuni SMA Kogoro/Kogoro memecahkan kasus tanpa dibius Conan (9)-Pertemuan penggemar Holmes/debut Heiji (12)-Ai Haibara (18)  (hide spoiler)]Sayang komik ini terjebak status quo di mana plot sebenarnya tidak maju dengan signifikan dan karakter baru terus ditambahkan tanpa ampun, sementara karakter lama tidak berkembang atau berubah.
Hal-hal yang sama diulang berkali-kali, sedangkan kasus episodiknya pun benar-benar terkesan jadi sisipan tidak penting.
Pada akhirnya, tidak bisa dipungkiri bahwa komik ini telah menancapkan legendanya di Tanah Air~
This manga has been translated to Indonesian since 1996.
The latest volume in Indonesian is # 48.
They're also hard to crack, unless you take some time scrutinizing every sentence in every panel.I never do that, of course.SPOILER ALERT.The biggest "holy s--t" mmoment is when I read # 42 - the showdown between Conan + Jodie - Chris Vineyard.
Gosho gave a moderate size chunk of information is to his readers.It turned out Chris Vineyard murdered Jodie's dad.
I don't know, thirty?Fast forward to the present and Chris Vineyard still doesn't look a day older than thirty.Jodie even asked her: How come you don't grow old?Hmmmmm.Are the members of the Black Organization immortal?
Besides that it will only end when the creator runs out of ways to kill people.The story is of (at least in English, 'cause that's the only version I've read), is about a mystery-novel lover named Jimmy, who is an expert detective on the side.
But it would be boring if it ended that way, now wouldn't it?It turns out, this drug has a 1/100 chance of, rather than killing, turning people into little kids!
I have read all of Gosho Aoyama's Case Closed Manga's from vol.
1 to his latest vol.
37.I also just saw that there is a vol.
I have also seen some of the Case Closed episodes starring Conan Edogawa aka Jimmy Kudo but I lost track of which ones that I have seen and where I have left off.
The Case Closed Manga's are full of excitement and a good (Canon aka Jimmy) vs.
I say Good Luck to Jimmy Kudo.
Manga are usually rather difficult for me to read, and I found this somewhat easier than most.
The protagonist, high-school-age Jimmy, is given some kind of poison which reduced him to the size and shape of a first-grader.
He continues to help solve crimes, though it's more difficult now that everyone sees him as just a little kid.
The real interest of the book is in Jimmy's interactions with his friends and others.
Some of what happens is just plain funny (for example, how Jimmy gets the police inspector to listen to him by using someone else's voice to explain what happened).I'm still not a fan of graphic novels.
Detective Conan, who looks like a 6 year old boy, is actually a teenager of 16 years-old.
In one of his cases, he was attacked and forced to drink a drug that made him shrunk and take the appearance of a little boy.
He owns the most charming outfits, and a little boy being clever and resolving murders is highly enjoyable.
He has a girl friend who can kick ass (she is an expert in martial arts) but so far, she thinks he is only a cute lost boy.This shounen has elements that make it fun to read: actual murders (blood included), likeable characters and an amusing MC.
-¿Por que tienes que ser detective? Si tanto te gustan las novelas policíacas, hazte escritor. -No quiero escribirlas, quiero vivirlas.  Al principio no me atrevía a leer este manga, ya que tiene unos 985 capítulos actualmente. Pero la curiosidad pudo conmigo y acá estoy ¡No me arrepiento de nada! Me encantó Shinichi desde el comienzo <3 necesito que urgentemente vuelva a la normalidad y esté con Ran
After solving a murder at an amusement park he witnesses two mysterious men in black conducting some shady business.
Now under the alias Conon Eddigowa he has to put all his deductive reasoning skills to the ultimate test and figure out who did this to him and how to reverse it before his true identity is discovered.
This manga is a Sherlock Holmes type mystery with an odd twist.I would recommend this book to people who like the work of Sir Arthur Conon Doyle, and would like to read of the adventures of a Sherlock Holmes super fan.
One of my all time favorite series, and one of the few that it's really a chore to wait the week for the next file to come out and be translated.
I mean, didn't the translators stop and think, "If we say Shinichi (I refuse to the the English name) is in New York, isn't that a bit expensive for Heiji to come visit for a day?"Ok, rant over.
In short: amazing series, read the fan translations instead of the idiotic official ones.
When I first saw my friends reading this book, I couldn't understand why they were so into it.
Now after I've read the book, I understand.
This book has so interesting plot line.
As he lives with an amateur detective, he helps the detective solve cases, in hope of finding some clues about the drug.
Each cases are unique and very interesting.
It is so thrilling when Conan finds out about trics and explains them to everyone.
I think I should keep reading this book since there are up to 60 volumes right now.
Jimmy Kudo had everything going for him - a junior in high school, a successful private detective, the attentions of a beautiful girl.
But that all changed when he discovered a case that may be too big for even him, and was given a dose of a strange substance that shrinks him to the size of a six year old.
Taking the name Conan Edogawa, Jimmy is determined to find the people who did this to him and create a cure.
Meanwhile, he keeps trying to solve cases - but no one wants to listen to a little kid!Great manga, great plot, lots of humor and mystery.
Jimmy Kudo is a high school student who was inspired by Sherlock Holomes to become a detective, and he has done a great job.
So far, that is, but unfortunately he was targeted by "The men in black" with a lethal poison.
To find the whereabout of the men in black he disguised himself under the name of Conan Edogawa to live with his childhood friend Ran and her dad a lousy detective Mouri.
With the help of his scientist friend he rose mouri to stardom in hopes that one day he will find the cure and return to what he was.
Case Closed, or Detective Conan as it is better known by, is a wonderful series that brings an interesting new spin to the detective story genre. It is fascinating to see the combination of two very different styles, Sherlock Holmes style detective as well as the classic Noir detective, that adds in the challenge of trying to solve crimes while in the body of a grade school kid. A classic of sequential art, both in Japan and all over the world, Case Closed is worth a read from anyone who likes a good detective story.
A teen detective is inadvertently shrunk to the size of a six-year-old, and must figure out how to get adults to take him seriously while continuing to solve crimes at the same time. I'm not much of a manga fan, but this wasn't too bad. One warning, however: while the main character looks six years old, he is emotionally more mature, and the crimes he solves can be pretty gory! I wouldn't recommend this series for kids under 12.
