https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444330.Kneeknock_Rise
As much as I really don't like to put words into someone else's mouth, I feel there could be several interpretations, which I will share with you.
The book explores the timeless theme of belief...and why people believe.
I could very possibly be over thinking this, but here are a few ways one might consider the purport of this book.
a) People who believe in God are fools, but they're mostly happy fools.
It suits some people's purpose to believe the universe revolves around our planet.
OR c) People as a mass blindly follow tradition/custom.
I think the whole message of the book can be found in the poem written by Uncle Ott: I visited a certain kingWho had a certain fool.The king was gray with wisdom gotFrom forty years of schol.The fool was pink with nonsenseAnd could barely write his nameBut he knew a lot of little songsAnd sang them just the same.The fool was gay.
The king was not.Now tell me if you can:Which was perhaps the greater foolAnd which the wiser man?The whole point of the book is to make you think; is it better to be the king or the fool?
Rereading Tuck Everlasting made me want to read all of Natalie Babbitt's books for young readers.
The Megrimum is a bellowing creature that lives on top of the rise.
No one knows what it is, but they all live in its shadow.
When Egan arrives to stay with his mother's family in the village of Instep, he gets caught up in the legend and decides to climb the rise and become a hero--with surprising results.
The book is a parable.
It asks the question: who is the wise man and who is the fool?
I apparently adore everything Natalie Babbitt wrote. Read this aloud to Fox at age 8 and we both loved it. Such good books for kids, with a lyrical quality and depth that adults will also fall in love with.
I love how Natalie Babbitt does not overuse words. She knows exactly what words to use to paint a realistic image in your mind and to tell a fantastic story. This story is simple and to the point, it does not drag on unnecessarily. I can see children as well as adults enjoying this story. I highly recommend this book.
I think I wanted something different out of it in the end.One of the blurbs on the back of the book describes it as a "new folktale," and that's probably an apt description.
The town's inhabitants have all kinds of superstitions about how to protect themselves from the Megrimum, and as Kneeknock Rise is the most exciting thing for miles around, there's a certain level of pride mixed in with their fear of the beast on the mountain.
Except you don't climb up."I loved that description--the desire for the mystery and the wonder of something utterly unknown.
A small village has a local legend of a mythical beast that lives at the top of a cliff on their mountain, which howls loudly during heavy rain/lighting storms.
Everyone is scared of it (but also kind of fond of it), yet it also makes the village famous, as people from miles around to hear the beast howl.
They just KNOW it's there.Enter our protagonist, a young boy who (duh) climbs the cliff during a storm, and discovers a scientific explanation for the howling sound.
He comes back down, and tries to tell that villagers that the beast isn't real...and they refuse to hear.
Egan travels to a nearby town to stay with his aunt and her family during the local annual fair. This fair isn't the usual thing, though - it's held in honor of and to celebrate the monster who lives on top of Kneeknock Rise.This is a fabulous story about the difference between fact and truth, about people's willingness to believe even when evidence to the contrary is right before them, and about the strange power of myth. I loved it, of course. Babbitt can weave a special kind of magic into her tales.
I LOVED THIS BOOK. i loved uncle Ott's poems. I think unce Ott was my favorite character because he very wise. He was just so simple. I didn't understand at first, I ended up reading the book twice before really understand the message in this book (there are a few) but the one that really stuck with me is that simple can be rather good. Sometimes things don't have to be exaggerated to make it sound good. Simplicity is a really natural, good thing.
This was an odd book. A fable of people believing something, even when the thing they believe in is proven wrong. I think it could have been more enjoyable for me, had I gone into it knowing it wasn't terribly 'brilliant' in its outcome. I'll put it in my classroom library and perhaps my students will enjoy it.
This is a quick read "fable-like" book. Interesting theme, my favorite quote, "Is it better to be wise if it makes you solemn and practical, or is it better to be foolish so you can go on enjoying tourself?"Something to think about.
This is my favorite of all Babbitt's books. Her style of writing here reminds me of Hermann Hesse, sort of mystical and dreamy. Highly recommended!
Instep lies at the foot of the Mammoth Mountains more specifically below a cliff that is named Kneeknock Rise.
The fair celebrates the local legend, a creature called the Megrimum, whose mournful wail can be heard resonating from the misty shrouded top of Kneeknock Rise.
The main character of the story is a boy named Egan who is heading to Instep to experience his first fair.
I chose this book because it shows how myths emerged from scientific realities which is one thing I love about this story - that it explores the nature of the conflict between science and mystery.
Book 12Rating: 3 starsKneeknock Rise Egan goes to his Aunt’s and Uncle’s house for a big fair in Instep.
His little cousin, Ada, shows him around and tells him about the mystery of the hill Kneeknock Rise.
Once the fair is over, and storms starts to settle in, Ada dares Egan to go up Kneeknock Rise and slay the beast.
Egan loses his uncle’s dog, Annabelle, at the top of Kneeknock Rise to his Uncle Ott, who too climbed the mountain.
Another cause was that Egan found out there was no monster at the top of the hill.
While Babbitt's Tuck, Everlasting was a journey into fantasy, this shorter work for Intermediate-level readers was just as suspenseful!
And, it involves a theme which I always struggle with: When is it not necessary that the facts be known by everyone, and a parallel theme of why people choose to believe in things they know not to be true.There "hero," Egan, discovers the truth about a supposed monster on a rocky hill and tries to impart that knowledge to the townspeople who live below the hill and use the legend of the monster as a tourist attraction.
Summary: This exciting chapter book tells the story of a young boy named Egan who visits his extended family in a town called Instep where just outside the town resides a mysterious phenomena that sits atop a rise.
Egan is challenged by his cousin to explore what is on the rise and what he finds is a mystery in itself.Evaluation: I enjoyed reading this book because it had a lot of passages that were a little difficult to read so overall this would be a challenging, yet interesting book for upper grades.
In this little town, there was a mystery that a mournful creature called the Megrimum lives in at the top of Kneeknock Rise.
In the fair, Egan's cousin, Ada, laughed at him and his favorite dog, Annabelle that they were sissy.
He wanted to prove they were not sissy, so he decided to climb the top of Kneeknock Rise with Annabelle.
When he climbed up the top, he saw Uncle Ott. Uncle Ott told him there isn't any Megrimum, just a spring.
Although the reason that he climbed up the hill was Ada teased him, I still appreciated his courage.
The young boy, Egan arrives in Instep to stay with his aunt and uncle for the annual fair, and he is immediately drawn to Kneeknock Rise, the misty peak that is surrounded by superstition and stories.
And so when his cousin dares him to go to the top of the the rise, he does it, and what he finds at the top would shock the whole town.Just like Tuck Everlasting, this book has a deeper story - are you the wise man or the fool?
And if people want to believe in a story, no matter how you present them with the truth, they will not believe you.
And do they really need to believe the truth, when the story makes them happy?
While visiting, his cousin teases him and calls him a sissy and that to prove he's not, she dares him to go up to the top of Kneeknock Rise and face the Megrimum.
The Megrimum can be heard howling from atop the mountain during a storm and people and animals that disappeared are also blamed on the mysterious creature.
There is a moral to the story that Egan must learn about having faith and the consequences that follow when one is more concerned with proving that something exists, no matter the cost.
He faces the same dilemma as Egan.
1971 Newbery Honor BookThis is a fairly short story about a boy named Egan who travels to a town named Instep to go to the local fair.
The town is in the shadow of Kneeknock Rise, part of the mountain where a terrible monster named the Megrimum dwells.
The villagers will not travel there and live in fear of its wrath.Natalie Babbitt is generally noted for her book Tuck Everlasting even though this book is the one which won the Newbery honor.
I see a lot of parallels between this book and Tuck, where the story is almost realistic fiction but just skirts the realm of fantasy.
Knee-Knock Rise By Natalie Babbitt is about a young boy named Egan who goes to visit relatives in a village called Instep.
Instep is close by a strange cliff they call KneeKnock Rise.
On the very top of this cliff is mist, and on stormy nights when its cold, a creature they called Megrimum will appear.
No one in Instep has gone to the top of the cliff in a thousand years.
No one in Instep can sleep.
I thought this was a good interesting book.
It was a very short read; I recommend this book to people who like to read non-fiction books.
My book group really enjoyed this book. There are lots of levels at which it can be read. Though Kneeknock Rise is a children's book it has a lot for adults to ponder, especially in this political climate. How often do we ignore facts in favor of belief? Do our beliefs make us better people? I had some trouble getting started with the story, but then I just fell in and was whisked along in the telling. I really loved the author's illustrations. I look forward to reading all of this wonderful author's books. They are really food for thought.
I have only previously read Tuck Everlasting, so my Babbitt exposure is still in its infancy, but this book was delightful. If not a bit slow.The characters were distinct, even if they weren’t all likable *cough*Ada*cough*, and the book’s overall message was very wise-albeit a little too on-the-nose in the current social climate here in the US. The foreshadowing with Orr’s verses was very clever, and the ending was very fitting.
This little book is a gem! Read it in one night and was thoroughly entertained. It would make a decent, quick read aloud for grades 3-5. There are some life lessons here, but if I talked about this story and what I think it r ally means, I would give away too much. Worth reading, at any rate. It’s been a long time since I read anything from Natalie Babbitt (Tuck Everlasting is another great story) - maybe I should read something else by her.
One day when it was the festival the boy was with her cousin and she say that he was afraid of the mergimum and he say that he wasn't afraid of a itching and he start climbing the kneeknock rise when he got to the top he found his uncle Ott that was lost for so many years an his uncle say that it wasn't any mergimum that the mountain was a volcano.
The part that I really like was when the boy found his uncle Ott and when he was climbing the kneeknock rise.
This is beautifully written. And the struggle with blind belief despite facts is hitting so close to home right now that I found the story to have something of a bitter after-taste. If we weren't fighting for objective truth in our greater society at the moment, if evidence-based science weren't under attack, I would've enjoyed this book even more.
Thought I might use this as a companion read-aloud for my class's novel study of  Tuck Everlasting. But, I don't think it will work. It will work, however, for sharing beautiful descriptive passages.
This book was a read-aloud in our home. It inspired many conversations among the children. This was the first of Natalie Babbitt's writings we have read, and according to many reviews, her other works were enjoyed very much, which inspires our home to read more of her offerings.
I read this book because the author who penned this book also wrote my favorite book: Tuck Everlasting. The book showed promise at the beginning with a good dose of suspense, but sadly did not live up to my hopes for it. Could have done more with the reveal.
Really fun mystery type adventure. Exciting story ending with a twist.
