https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847018.Castle
And furthermore, considering that Castle in many ways strives to educate and enlighten, its teaching and learning potential would be massively increased by the inclusion of a list of works consulted and cited (a bibliography), as well as additional historical background material (an annoying and yes, even sadly frustrating shortcoming for this type of a book, and indeed the main reason, why I am now changing my erstwhile three star ranking to but two stars).And finally, I also do have to wonder if David Macaulay's fictitious Welsh town and castle are based on the coastal town of Aberystwyth, but that is pure conjecture and speculation on my part (having visited the former, and seen the ruins of its castle, the comparisons are ready and clearly present, and it would definitely tickle my fancy if Macaulay had indeed based his Aberwyvern on Aberystwyth, yet another reason why a detailed and expansive author's note with such presented information would be or would have been an appreciated and actually in my opinion also rather necessary addition).
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDavid Macaulay is a British writer and illustrator who specializes in architecture and history. I remember I used to force my poor, beleaguered parents to sit through Pyramid (1988) with me, over and over and over. (Pyramid is excellent, by the way; if you ever happen upon a copy of it, you must watch it.) He also did another child-focused documentary called Castle, which I wasn't as interested in: this girl favored Egyptians over European
(Pyramid is excellent, by the way; if you ever happen upon a copy of it, you must watch it.) He also did another child-focused documentary called Castle, which I wasn't as interested in: this girl favored Egyptians over European feudalism & crusades, thank you very much.Now that I've gotten into fantasy novels and bodice rippers, CASTLE suddenly feels much more relevant.
Imagine my delight when I find out that my library has a copy of it in their e-book library.
For an adult who loves fantasy or historical romance, it's quite useful in providing a visual concept for how many of your favorite fictional settings might have looked.
I've always wanted to read this book and can't believe it's taken me so long.
So is the companion book...I digress.So there's no excuse for me not reading Castle--I know how good Macaulay is.
When I lived in England, one of my favorite things to do was to go 'castle-hunting' in Wales.
Conwy and Caernarfon were two of my favorites.Anyway, I wished I'd had this book when I used to go castle-hunting; I could have used it.
First read: June 10, 2008 October 14, 2014: Good to pick up again and reread!
I bought this book twenty years ago while in college because it was so well illustrated, and it did such a great job of answering questions I had about how castles were built and arranged.
Last year my 2nd grade son checked out a perfectly good book on castles from his school.
He poured over the illustrations and read the captions, but he couldn't get answers to his questions: "Dad, what's a 'keep'?....
The art work, the text, and the whole flow of the book are all just so well done.
As a history/ historical-fiction lover of most things involving royalty; I have read many books with castle or palace scenes.
However, if you are seeking to expand your knowledge of the ins and outs of a castle built from the ground up; then look no further than David Macaulay’s “Castle”.Let me be frank: “Castle” is an illustrated children’s book.
The flow and build-up of “Castle” is better than some recent adult novels I have read.
David Macaulay’s “Castle” is a stand-out book and worth a read whether you are a child or adult history-lover, alike.
Returning with a much thinner book from the juvenile nonfiction section, I offered, "Try this one on for size." He smiled.
Since they're made for kids, the books get straight to the point, often explore the topic through a relatable narrative—great for those of us who learn best by example—and almost always include lots of photos or illustrations.
Well, I didn't care about the clarinet, but I did want to know about castles.
Not just that, though; we also learn a bit about how society worked in medieval times—how and why a city would bud and flourish around a major castle.
Beautifully detailed drawings of the castle and all its parts. I like how he tells the story of not only what is a castle but why they built it and the progression of building it. I'm not sure what age this book is intended for but as an adult I still enjoyed it.
How and why medieval castles were constructed, with intricate drawings showing details of castle construction, defenses,and life.Recommended for ages 9-12.
Approprate for ages 12-18, possibly younger children if they are already interested in castles.I would not recommend this book as a first introduction to castles for young children.
If, however, your older child knows about castles and is interested in learning more, this book will teach him or her a great deal about castle construction, as well as about why castles were built, what life was like inside one, and how castles could withstand attack.
I really enjoy all of Macaulay's illustrations and attention to detail.Like his previous Caldecott honor, Cathedral: The Story of Its Construction, this tells the story of the massive construction feat of a fictional edifice.
Although true, and once the conquest of new nations was complete and castles were no longer needed, I still wish that the engineering and hard work would have lasted longer throughout time - a lot like many of the medieval cathedrals that are still in use today.This book is more of a historical narrative than a story, however, and a bit too wordy for younger children.
It would be great for use with older children and those learning of the history of Europe, to help them understand just how and why these mammoth buildings were constructed.
This book explains the creation and construction of Lord Kevin’s castle.
Through this book, readers will see and experience the amount of time and methodical work put into the construction of a castle.
Readers will get to see and experience the amount of hard work that goes into the building of a Castle, specifically during the time period of 1277 through 1305.
It is definitely a unique and interesting book done in very beautiful and detailed pen-and-ink illustrations.
Overall, this is a very detailed and interesting book; one that I am sure will be of interest to older elementary and middle school boys.
Mr. Macaulay's illustrations are just marvelous.
Not only do they explain in detail how and why castles were built, but the book is written so anyone can read and understand it.
The illustrations back up the text, but Mr. Macaulay goes a bit further and adds humorous items to his illustrations.
For example, in explaining the various floors of a tower in the castle being built, under the basement, there is the dungeon.
The author explains how 'Master James', the architect, had garderobes built into the stone walls, and they were placed all over the castle.
He absolutely loved reading about the history and building of the castle.
After reading this story, we watched the accompanying PBS special Castle by the same author.
The movie is s a perfect tag-a-long going into further details and highlighting real castles and showing the details that were discussed in the book.
To follow up on the book/movie, my son is now building his own brick castle.
We ordered a kit and it includes everything to make little bricks from molds and then directions on exactly how to build the castle.
Young readers will enjoy learning how much effort and difficulty goes into the construction, and the details of how it’s inhabitants lived and how the fortress is defended.
If I could find one complaint it is how he speaks of the conflict in rather glossy terms, describing the inevitable way the welsh will mix with the English and how both will benefit from the stability the castle and it’s new associated town provide.
Reality is far bloodier, but he does do us the favor of depicting the violence of welsh revolts in an exciting way that will draw in young readers.
This book took castles from being archetypal fairy-tale constructs to living environments with place and purpose.
Was it relief or disappointment the stonemason felt when the last stone of the outer bailey was laid?And the pages on siege and war telling of a dangerous world beyond, men who would take what you have unless you have the strength to defend it.Ending, of course, in a moldering cliff-top ruin slowly worn down by theft and weather.
I wanted the castle - and the book - to go on forever, but there it was every time I got to the last page: this too shall end.

Macaulay's original "Castle" was named a 1978 Caldecott Honor medal winner and detailed the building of a castle in Wales in the late 1200s; this colorized edition is a worthy revision.
Looking at the books side by side, the changes are not just in the application of color but also in the details of the illustrations.
The color illustrations seem to show more detail, as in the page about the gatehouses and the numerous ways their openings could be blocked from intruders and the fine illustration of how a drawbridge works.The text has been changed a bit as well; it is less "wordy" and more to the point.
I am not a non-fiction reader, so all the details of castle-building weighed a bit heavily on me, but I could appreciate why this was a great book.
Kids who are obsessed with castles, or with buildings in general love books with this level of detail, and this book makes all that dry information very interesting and readable.
My favorite thing about the book were the pages showing the layout of the castle and its surrounding town at various points as it changed and grew.
I think kids are fascinated by maps that show the passage of time like that.
It's all about building a castle - where toilets are in the castle, the inner and outer curtains and the Great Hall.
There are pictures in the book, so you can see how people lived.
For instance, you can see pictures of where the toilets were, and the pipes going down into a cesspool.
Castles looked different than our houses or apartments.
I climbed up the stairs, and I saw the ruins of what the wall looked like.I'd like to live in a castle, but not a ruined one, one re-built for people to live in.
This book is full of lots of words, but so much knowledge just in the pictures that you could teach children with it, and keep them enthralled without ever reading word.
It is full of discussion, show them the workers and ask what job they'd want, show them the tools and ask which they would want to use.
And at the end, ask them to draw their own diagram of how they would build their castle, and how it would look at the end.
The drawings are detailed yet simple enough for the children to understand what is happening.
The ingenuity of mankind is celebrated in this informative book. Though technology and resources were limited when compared to the 21st century, the planners and builders of the 13th century managed to create a 'modern' effective community. This book puts the reader into a time machine and allows us to be eyewitnesses to the building of a castle and village. Macaulay's detailed pencil drawings are educational and fun to study.
Castle won a Caldecott Honor and rightly so. The story itself is informative, describing the processes involved in constructing a castle, but the illustrations are more engaging and show a lot of attention to detail. Because of the vocabulary used, I would see this being a reference book for 5th or 6th graders. I believe the main reason it would be picked up is to use it for a project, although someone interested in architecture or just castles would enjoy it.
This personally was not my favorite book, but I could see why some people enjoy reading it. The book gave incredible details in both words and illustrations. After reading the book, I felt I knew where everything was in the castle and surrounding areas. On the other hand, this could be found to be rather lengthy and boring. I think this book would best be suited for older elementary children and boys in particular. Picturebook-Historical Fiction
This is a children's book, I guess, but it is actually pretty interesting. It describes he construction of a realistic but fictional English castle in Wales in the 13th century. I used it to help me design a castle in Minecraft.
This is a really great book for kids (and adults) who are interested in how castles were built. It goes through the whole process, from what tools and materials were used all the way to the finished castle. Really fun!
This guy is an artistic genius, as well as an historian. His drawings depicting the building of a castle are totally awesome, and the accompanying history really makes you feel as though you're going through the process of castle-building, step by step. Highly recommended for all reading ages!
A marvelous children's book showing the design and building of a 13th century castle. The illustrations are fantastic!
I also read the brand-new, in color edition that was published in 2010. I read that edition December 26, 2013.
Well written from start to finish on how to build a castle. Read for our unit study on Medieval times..krb 3/15/16
The only point of the minimal story is that it describe motivations behind the building of the castle and the decisions made in its construction (mainly to fortify it against siege from Welsh rebellion).
But, imagine if the story of the Welsh rebellion had more substance, or the various members of the castle or town were described as actual characters.
In the end it seemed like it was more a reference or step by step guide about castle building that attempts to make some efforts to appeal by situating an almost nonexistent plot and named characters which in the end contributed very little to the book.
Macaulay's book has wonderful illustrations that show readers the building of a castle and the parts of that castle.2.
Macaulay tells the casual reader about the history, the building, the usage, and the parts of the castle in a story format.What I didn't like:1.
The story being listed as completely non-fiction, when it uses a fictional feudal lord.2.
The fact that this feudal lord's name is Kevin.
The text was rather dry even for a non-fiction sometimes fiction book.It is a good book, I suppose, for people who don't know what a castle is.
