https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372852.God_Is_an_Englishman
This novel was set in the same time frame as Poldark, but actually covers completely different issues, so I stopped comparing the two and just settled down to enjoy this story as a thing apart.
That worked out fine, because there is a lot to enjoy here.Adam Swann is a very interesting and smart character and his aims to build his own place in the world are a kind of microcosm of how industry and entrepreneurism changed the world in the mid-1800s.
Overall I enjoyed this novel although I have to admit to enjoying some parts more so than others.It's rich in period detail, in some ways an "old fashioned" read. The story of Adam Swann his family and his "other family" who make up his haulage business during the Industrial Revolution and beyond.It was the secondary characters that I felt more in tune with - some great characters on offer. Far more "readable" than I'd originally thought.
(Don’t expect it to read just like a Dickens novel).This first volume in the trilogy follows Adam Swann as he decides to leave the army and start a business back home.
Although the business may seem to be the primary focus, Adam’s personal development is the true story.
Instead, they are opportunities for growth and increased understanding.Aside from Adam, there are also two very capable women in the story who develop and grow significantly throughout the book.
I liked that the men and women are essentially well-matched in strength and intelligence although their roles end up being traditional.There are other less important characters as well.
By coincidence or not, the Swann's family just met the famous British writer Charles Dickens who was already well known at that time.The title of this book comes from Adam's returning to England after a very painful period of his life, in the quay of Calais, "where he saw every other ship flew the British flag and quays were piled with packing cases, some of them stenciled with names he recognized." (page 781)A lot of British writers are mentioned along this book in addition to Charles Dickens, such as Charlotte Bronte, George Eliot, Charlotte Mary Yonge, Wilkie Collins.
However, a special attention is given to East Lynne by Mrs. Henry Wood with is cited several times along the narrative and was mostly related to Henrietta character while the firs ones were related to their children's education.This saga continues with Theirs Was the Kingdom and Give Us This Day.
F. Delderfield's entertaining Swann trilogy, God Is an Englishman, Theirs Was the Kingdom, and Give Us This Day, held the # 9 and # 10 slots on the New York Times best-seller list in the early '70s.
Delderfield describes Adam Swann's wagon haulage business in such detail that one could go to work for him.
Her work as a carpenter and assistant helps her grow up.Two of the other children are also (so far) among the protagonists: George, the genial oldest son, is Adam's business protege, but after he discovers one of the managers is fiddling the books, he is almost blackmailed into marriage with the manager's scheming daughter.
This is the first of a Saga and I am already looking forward to reading the next one.
The military has been a family tradition for multiple generations.
What makes Adam different is that he has applied his keen mind and moral code to founding and growing a successful niche in the ruthless industrial revolution economy of Victorian England.
Adam also bucks convention and impulsively marries a runaway teen, the daughter of a true industrial revolution mill-owning brute.
Maybe a British reader would have had fewer problems with these terms, unusual analogies and references?
I loved this book on so many levels. I will be writing a more detailed review later but if you love family sagas, if you love English novels, if you just like a good "read read" peopled with multi-faceted characters, this is the book for you! I had heard of Delderfield but that's all and I don not know why he is not better-known or read on both sides of the pond!
Boy, I reads this eons ago and remember loving it!!

i feel like i uncovered a gem in this book--i get the sense it was the 1970s equivalent of the da vinci code (without all the quasi spiritual nonsense of course).
though it got a bit tedious in parts, overall it was very engaging and fun to read.it follows Adam Swann and his inimitable wife, Henrietta, starting from their (a little too) serendipitous meeting to their joint management of business, home and family.
in parts it functioned like a leadership book, in that it teaches how to empower and motivate people to do good work.
Adam was a great leader who inspired integrity and hard work, even in his absence.
It took me time to get into the book but once I did, I really enjoyed it. Good historical fiction with likeable characters and a great plot. Just sometimes too many details and explanations could have been edited. I like a long book, but over 700 pages is a bit too long. I will certainly read the sequel, even though it's just as long.
Historical novel taking place in the late 1850's early 1860's in England.Adam Swann returns home from the army with a secret and starts a carting delivery service which grows throughout England.Much of the book examines (which could be boring to some) the business growth, with some time being spent on his family. While there were interesting characters, I felt Delderfield could have done more with their depth and emotions.
She found a hut outside of town and used it to get out of the rain.Adam arrived in town at the time of the riot and watched as Sam, Matthew and his son Makepeace Goldthorpe (the man Henrietta was to marry) rode into town.
Henrietta wasn't at all surprised that her father would do such a thing.Adam went to London in search of Josh Avery who had served in the army with him.
When it came time to return home, Henrietta asked Adam to rent the property for 5 years hoping at the end of that time that he be able to afford to purchase the property.
There are great exceptions, like Chabon's Kavalier and Klay, but overall, the focus is more on the intense examination of character.The big writers of the 19th century, from Melville to Trollope to Tolstoy wrote giant novels with epic lists of characters and stories long enough to sustain months of reading.
Their breed of escapism is one of immersion and the big fat story telling literary novel is the same.While modernism has dominated 20th century fiction, story tellers held their own as well.
Englishman R F Delderfield specialized in the story-telling novel.
Even those who don't will likely appreciate Delderfield's story telling abilities.
Giving a plot outline really doesn't convey how good of a book this is, but I'll go ahead and try anyway.God Is an Englishman tells the story of Adam Swann and his rise to prominence in London in the 1860's.
Thus begins the story of not only their life together, but the story of the newly formed Swann-on-Wheels transportation company.The historical detail in this book is truly fascinating.
Even when Delderfield is going through details that should be tedious - train schedules, shipping and transportation issues - he makes it interesting.
And I loved following his marriage and family life, as he and Henrietta grow to know and truly love each other throughout the years.
I had read this one decades ago, but once I had discovered that it had been reprinted, and it was affordable on the Nook, I went for it. Happily this one turned out to be very enjoyable, and full of the sort of things that I like in a historical novel -- lots of detail, interesting people and an engaging story. Those who like their family sagas to be big and meaty, this would be a good fit. Four stars overall, and happily recommended. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Book_G...
Shamefully, I couldn't get past about 350 pages. It was laborious for me to read this, even though my friend kept telling me,"the ending is so good!"Seriously, I rarely discard a book before I have finished it. I felt I was generous with all the time it took for me to read half of the book. It was so verbose, I just got itchy with frustration.
I really began to enjoy this historical novel after the first 400 pages, but it really was worth the effort, even if it took me nearly a month to finish! An interesting story, very well written, wonderful characters and a period that is fascinating (1860s). Just a bit too much detail about the workings of the haulage firm.
I love long multi-generational novels. This was a little too detailed in the main character's business - which I hope will be remedied in the 2 sequels.
Swann brings home a string of priceless rubies (loot under any definition) to fund his startup, he marries the girl he lifts off the moor, he finds the right people (a full range of the English types of the period) and the whole thing develops in spite of anything.
Who would have thought that the history of the founding of a trucking company would be so interesting?To be fair, since the events in this story take place between 1858 and 1865, the company we see at its beginning is actually a carting company, hauling goods around England, Scotland, and Wales in wagons of various descriptions instead of, or as a supplement to, transporting them by train.
I’m pretty sure that by the end of the saga the wagons will have become trucks.In addition to the founding of a company, the story concerns the founding of a family.
I read this in my 20’s and never forgot it.
It was just as good this time.
It’s a fascinating story of an Englishman who leaves the military and heads back home to start a business.
It’s set in the late 1800’s when the railroads have covered England and industry is booming.
Adam Swann sees a need for hauliers to fill the gaps between the manufactories, railroads, and consumers.
He sets out building a nationwide network covering all of England and Wales of wagons, teams of horses, depots, and managers that emerge as a successful family of transporters 8 years later.
Interesting from two different historical perspectives - the mid-19th century English industrial revolution, and the feminist revolution of the 1960's. Very, very interesting to see the impact of the industrial revolution on England, the economic and cultural changes. Less interesting was the view of feminism by 1970. Although, the experiences and aspirations of women are extremely diverse and impossible to capture in one novel. So I can't fault the author too much for choosing two stereotypes that were popular at the time.
Ambitious historical novel, set in Victorian England, overlapping with the American Civil War, dealing with the disruption caused by the introduction of rail travel. This first volume of the trilogy follows the first generation of the (fictional) Swann family, & how they create a successful haulage business.
I read this because I quite liked To Serve Them All My Days, but looking back I realize the subject matter of that novel (anti-war WWI book about a boys school) masked a lot of what frustrated me about this one. The concept of tracing a family business is intriguing, but to put it bluntly the book is governed by so much messianic paternalism that I wanted to vomit.
I love Delderfield, but got bogged down in the geography of the roads in the first part of this book. Not living in England, it meant nothing to me, even with a map. Quit after 200 pages, but may go back and try again.
My favourite saga. I have read all the books in this family saga several times and love the mixture of fiction and fact. An interesting commentary on social history during the era of transport from horse and cart, through canals, trains and finally trucks. Mixed in with great characters.
Delderfeld portrays a wonderful historical view of the times of his novels. His characters and plots are rich and intriging.
Read this series years ago, enjoyed the story and the history in it
It's been many years since I read this, but I remember it being interesting to me.
