https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1116661.Revolt_in_2100
I am going to join with Spider Robinson and so many other literary critics who populate the science fiction genre of literature in stating that a bad Heinlein novel is still better than a “good” novel by most anyone else.
Revolt in 2100 is not at all a bad Heinlein, though, it is quite good.
The Future History of RAH is sprinkled liberally with mention of them both, and so for a devoted fan of Heinlein, this is a must read.Divided into three loosely connected parts, the first tells the tale of the end of the theocracy Scudder started.
It's a good, fast read with a couple of interesting themes in it.
The second is a unified field theory for science, where they figure out how gravity, electricity & magnetism all work.
This break through in science is leveraged in the revolt.
I found it interesting that time was left out, but the pseudo-science is fun.It's a very monochrome view of a revolution.
The bad guys are really bad, the good guys are heroic, with pure motives.
Not nearly as good as "The Moon is a Harsh Mistress" but not a bad, quick shot at it.
This is the only story I remember actually based during the 21st Century religious dictatorship under Nehemiah Scudder. The backdrop is a little depressing and the longer two stories lack Heinlein's typical talent for creating amazing characters.
Revolutions always work in Heinlein's books so there's no spoiler to say it does here as well, but it does hinge on a cheap trick I won't discuss, and the fighting is glossed over and takes only a chapter.
It serves no real purpose that I could find, which is just as well because I was not emotionally invested in how they turned out anyways.Here's my guess as to why Heinlein wrote this book: he'd written other books that alluded to a previous theocratic government and revolution, so he thought he would actually write a story to go with the allusions.
Dystopian SF novel in which an early 21st century US is taken over by a repressive right-wing theocracy. Obviously it could never happen, but fun all the same.
Even though Heinlein's stories were written decades ago they are still a great read and are classics of early SiFi. While the books are quick reads you find yourself analyzing the deeper questions Heinlein weaves into the story. Always a great read, Very recommended
Good concept, but: Heinlein. Plodding and colorless. Add a somewhat embarrassing adoration of Freemasonry and awkwardness around female characters, and it’s definitely not going to crack the ‘best dystopian’ list.
A science fiction book should not get five stars simply because it was written by Heinlein.
(1 star)Regarding the story's plot, I have absolutely no concept of how we could possibly get to the Religious Theocracy point in America.
Coventry (3 stars)A short story about a non-conformist who is removed from society because broke the Covenant - do what you want as long as it brings no harm to others - and refuses to be 'mentally reconditioned'.
Misfit - 4 stars.Short story with a lot of scientific detail in it.
Here, the rebellion is against a repressive Theocracy which has taken over the US in the year 2100.A naïve young soldier in the private guard of The Prophet (the despotic leader of the Theocracy) is recruited into an Underground Resistance Movement and we follow his career until the moment of revolution.An additional tale is set at a time when the new state has used psychological tools to create a mentally stable society.Not all are happy in this tame paradise however and those who employ violence or seek to promote dissent are banished to a lawless community within a forcefield which is called Coventry.
John Lyle and his friend Zeb join their group and sister Judith is saved from sexual slavery.There is a lot more to the story than just the above, John Lyle is discovered, escapes, flees across country, the rebels rise and conquer most satisfyingly and in it all is the best part of the old science fiction which looks at how societies could evolve, at all the 'what ifs' of people and what they do.
But when he commits the “crime” of falling in love with one of the Prophet’s brigade of “virgins”, held in thrall for sexual services, he is forced to seek out the help of The Cabal, an undercover resistance movement dedicated to overthrowing the theocracy.Heinlein posited some thoughts on organized religion, government, power and revolution that were memorably thought-provoking and, if they were relevant in the 1950s, then they are even more important and relevant today:“You can’t conquer a free man; the most you can do is kill him.”“You can sway a thousand men by appealing to their prejudices quicker than you can convince one man by logic.”“Openly expressed piety is insufferable conceit”“No people was ever held in subjection long except through their own consent.”But the fact is that Heinlein’s writing in Revolt in 2100 is unable to clear the bar that he set for himself in such later, more polished novels as Methuselah’s Children.
I don't want to spoil it but my biggest problem was the inconsistency: the hero ditches his whole life philosophy several times and not for good reasons and characters make huge impact and are then forgotten about, only to be used again to badly tie their own loose ends.
This inconsistency and loose-ends make this story seem thoughtless and carelessly written.The other 2 stories are about the future after the revolt.
I think I would have enjoyed this even more if I'd a) read the World as Myth and peripheral books in a better order, and b) understood that Lazarus Long does not make an appearance.
When you're waiting for something to happen, and it never does, it's confusing and frustrating.
There were 3 main stories in this book, connected only by date, not characters.
The latter introduces Andrew Jackson Libby, a character in Methuselah's Children.
It's a good follow-up to Stranger in a Strange LandStranger in a Strange Land, and lead-in to Methuselah's Children and the rest of the World as Myth books.
I got the three in one edition with 'Coventry' and 'Misfits' included.The core story is good and does the usual Heinlein trick of making you sympathise with a moderately unpleasant set of 'good guys.' The setting is rich and believable but at times there is simply too much explaining going on to make this a truly great novel.
Having the Masons as the underlying revolutionary force was unexpected but worked weirdly well.'Coventry' makes it worth reading 'Revolt' some great discussions of justice and it is always nice to see a naive individualist getting their comeuppance.
A re-read of a one of the four volumes of Heinlein's future history stories. The main story in this collection, If This Goes On--, is very timely. It details the 2nd American Revolution.... the story of the overthrow of a hundred year long despotic religious dictatorship. Of particular interest is Heinlein's afterward in which he (accurately) describes the future he thought was possible from trends he observed in 1953 America. An interesting read given the results of the 2016 presidential election.
The main story is novella length and about a revolution against a theocracy that has taken over America. It has a lot of action and interesting characters but is dated of course. It is worth reading as a prelude to reading Heinlein’s essay about stories related to it that heclose not to write. Heinlein’s concern about America succumbing to a religiously based oppressive government is still relevant
It is 2100 and America has been under an absolute religious dictatorship headed by the Prophet Incarnate for 100 years. Now there is a stirring of rebellion led by a secret group known as Cabal. At the center of this is the transformation of John Lyle from loyal soldier and protector of the Prophet to a member of the Cabal.The ending is quite abrupt.
Not my favorite of the Heinleins so far, but a provoking commentary on the subject of Theocracy, religious manipulation, and quid-pro-quo of peaceful society. As per usual, the golden-nugget one-liners were shining treasures among the larger narrative.
Not until the afterward did I realize this was the third book in a "series" by Heinlein. I really enjoyed the first part of the book and the last short story, but the middle section was a slog. It feels like I can't accurately gauge the book without having read the others, though.
I read this one in my High School years - a really long time ago. The longest of the three stories in this collection - "If This Goes On--" is the story of how a religious dictatorship in America is overthrown. I remember really liking it. The others are set in post-revolutionary times.
What a crazy idea, the US controlled by a xenophobic, intolerant religious dictatorship - where do these SF writers get their ideas??? (glances at newspaper) Oh, right.This is classic Heinlein and sadly, sadly prescient.
Even though they were written in the 1940s, these stories are still relevant today - an oppressive religious government that rules by misinformation, people who don't believe in government until they don't have it any more, and so on.
Another Heinlein classic made new by his prescient understanding of American culture and politics. It is typical of his books and by that I mean a novella and two shorter stories connected by a setting made real by thoughtful details.
En ole koskaan oikein ymmärtänyt Heinleinin kehumista. Tai sitten arvostan eri asioista kuin muu maailma kirjoissa. Tai sitten vain ärsytti jälleen kerran uskonnollisuus. Tulipa luettua.
Three good Heinlein stories.
I found the stories fascinating, especially the shorts included in the end of my edition. It amazes me how relevant it feels in today's political climate.
Our review will be available soon on our podcast, The Nerd Book Review!
prima leesvoer
I am about to re-read THE DOOR INTO SUMMER, the first adult Heinlein I read, for the first time in 1983.
Maybe it's just Heinlein's short stories I don't like very much, but even some of his longer works I have recently read (his older stuff) are unsteady.
Pages and pages of a chase.
Then pages and pages of dialogue.
I like his books and continue to read them because they are books of ideas, but I don't remember them being so unsteady.
John Lyle is a guard at the prophet's castle when he falls for a young priestess.
Also, the constant explaining to the stupidly innocent main character do not help nor does the sudden change of tone from previous entries in the Future History series.Coventry (1940) 2.5/5 Stars Since the end of the events of "If this Goes On-" the U.S. has reorganized into a passive country where anything is legal unless it hurts someone else.
Coventry is a story of redemption with some serious flaws.
This story serves as a backstory for one of the major characters in the next book, Methuselah's Children.
