https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292079.Principles_of_Mathematical_Analysis
A natural course is to move on to Rudin's own Real and Complex Analysis (complemented nicely by the 4th edition of Royden; Bressoud's other book might also be of interest for its historically informed narrative; to gain more motivation for topology try Janich's text or something like this).
Then one would graduate to a course in functional analysis (again, there is Rudin's text, but I don't like it for that as much as this and Real and Complex Analysis, rather try Haim Brezis).Here are some advanced resources-http://www.physics.usyd.edu.au/~tingy...https://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~twk/LA.pdfhttps://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~twk/FA3.pdfhttp://www.math.harvard.edu/~shlomo/d...These as well as other classic mathematics texts may not be all that reasonably priced, in which case you might consider having them ordered from South Asia or China where they sell for a special rate.
It's chosen by professors who have had decades of experience as university mathematicians, and have achieved a certain Zen-like understanding of the knowledge contained within.It's too bad they forget what it was like to receive that knowledge.As the purchaser and consumer of this text, you don't really have a choice.
This is the gateway that those in knowledge and power have chosen for your entre to this field.There are those that will love this book, find themselves within it, and savor every moment they spend turning the pages to new realms of knowledge.To the rest of us, I recommending finding one of those people and kidnapping them.
don't let the size of the book deceive you (it's much smaller than most math textbooks.) it's incredibly terse, the problem sets are "fucking bullshit" (mind you, this is what me and my classmates would usually say after trying to attack a single problem for about a good couple of hours - but as "fucking bullshit" the problems were, they are pedagogically EXCELLENT problems with no problem sets seeming to be trite and useless), the book is quite self-contained and can be approached with enough mathematical maturity in calculus and perhaps a little bit of advanced calculus, etc.EVERYONE should read this book and trudge through it properly.
'Baby Rudin' is to learning analysis as artificial insemination is to sexual reproduction. It's not good, it's not bad, and there are more fun ways of going about it, but at least it gets the job done.
Analysis, the hard way. Definitely worth the effort, though.
This was the text book for my real analysis course. I did not like this text book. I found it dense and hard to gain relevant information from it. Rudin optimized this book for the shortest proofs, and that isn't particularly useful for learning the material. Important results in Mathematics are given as exercises, which is cool, except that they are really hard, and there isn't enough material in the book to cover the problems.
Going to commit to reading this book as a bedtime story each night since what better way to fall asleep than amidst some analysis.
I used this book to learn analysis upon arrival at UW. Rudin is a professor at UW. There is nothing unnecessary in this book! In this way it reminded me of Gallagher's stochastic processes book. Every detail counts. This is the kind of textbook I appreciate, because I have a hard time reading long-winded explanatory text when it comes to math and engineering.
What else would one pick if s/he wanted to understand analysis in a higher level? Anyone who wants to begin studying analysis he could use this book to establish the necessary fundamentals in his head. Then he can go for other books (as I will go) to check their problems and find out about the structure they have used to think about various topics of this field. :)
The standard by which introductory real analysis texts are judged. Rudin's treatment is terse, but beautiful. This book is the one that convinced me that mathematics, and especially analysis, is my true love intellectually.
The title of this calculus bible should have been "So you are a mathematical genius". Rudin introduces everything as if they came from out of nowhere, like a black hole. Counter-intuitive! Too bad!
Baby Rudin is one of the clearest introductory level analysis textbooks out there. The price might not be ideal (over a hundred dollars for a book the size of a DVD), but the directness of the proofs is fantastic. There is no fluff in this book.
This book is the textbook for my first undergrad math upper div course. It's very challenging. In order to understand it fully, reading it once would not be enough.
great summary of classical analysis... not so wonderful to learn from.
Excellent approach from metric spaces at the very beginning. A good book that worth trying. Stuck at differential forms
I mean, I suppose the paper making up the book is slightly thinner and perhaps it uses a different measure of size, but other than that it didn’t need to say that on the cover.This mathematical book is much like any other mathematical textbook that I own and have read, it starts with the basics and builds upon those basics in a systematic manner.
However, it would be neat if I also learned something along the way.The book delivers in being amusing and informative.
Decent text. Very thorough and well structured. I think it was too concise for an intro to analysis since dissecting the proofs and filling in the details were painful. The exercises were very good, though; I feel like I learned a lot from them.
This is indeed a textbook directed more towards a class of Functional Analysis. The good news about this is that the author left a couple of chapters of "basic" analysis. If you've been out of the field for a while (a year or two), I do suggest looking over these two chapters (1 and 5) and possibly your initial material from your first analysis class. (The material is more directed towards how the teacher/professor teaches the class compared to your first analysis class.)
A classic that every mathematician should read.
a pain to read. good as a reference, not good for self-studying.
So there's a standard trope in martial arts movies where the young apprentice shows up at the stoop of the Old Master and says, "teach me to fight".
Carrying the Old Master up and down the mountains.
Usually, it's never clear if the training is difficult because Sensei is trying to impart some kind of deeper wisdom or if he's really just a resentful old jerk who takes pleasure in making young students suffer.Principles of Mathematical Analysis is the Old Master.
There's probably a better book to learn analysis from, but then again, maybe the difficulty is helpful.
Challenging, but richly rewarding.Excellent for developing mathematical maturity if you work hard at filling in details and trying to sketch proofs before reading those given.
Useful for learning what are typically the most elegant approaches to proving theorems (which may be desirable from a mathematical perspective or simply a cognitive perspective - it can be difficult to remember the details of a messier proof).For first exposures to the field, this should be complemented with a book that takes a more constructive, computational approach (especially if intended for use in a calculus course).
An accompanying book which provides more exposition for motivation/intuition may also be helpful.
It's pretty much great, but the last 2 chapters are not for a beginner.
The first chapter on mutlivariable analysis sounded fine, but the others were pretty painful to read.
However, for someone with exposition to Manifolds, this seems like a perfect reference to come back too.
The measure theory chapter wasn't easy to read, but I guess if one knows some measure theory, this chapter will come off as easy, and it'll be a great reference.
Maybe after reading Calculus on Manifolds and a bit of measure theory, the last three chapters would feel easier.
This book is plain overrated. There is barely any motivation. And it is intended for a first undergraduate course on the subject. Good luck on doing that if you're studying on your own from this book.If you are studying on your own and have never done rigorous mathematics before, avoid it. If you're looking for a reference, there are better ones out there.There are no offered solutions to problems, although solution manuals already exist on the internet, so that helps if you absolutely must use this book for some peculiar reason.
Rudin's Principles of Mathematical Analysis provides a pretty decent grounding in Real Analysis. Anyone who does anything with calculus should probably read it.That said, it isn't a perfect primer. The proofs can be difficult to follow, and the language is very high-level. Some chapters suffer from a lack of examples or explanation. To get the most out of this book, it really has to be a classroom companion; you're not going to get too much out of just reading it in your spare time.
My textbook for Real Analysis. I've only read the first five or six chapters (up to differentiation), as those were the only topics we dealt with in Analysis I (Analysis II covers the second half). The textbook is well written, I think. It goes into very detailed proofs of the theorems in the text and the section about the construction of the reals was written in great depth. I thought it was an extremely useful book for the class. Also, the exercises were quite challenging (but that might just be me).
Concise introduction to mathematical analysis. Proofs are more often proof sketches, and the reader may take some time to fill in the details (mentally or otherwise). The person with sufficient mathematical imagination and familiarity with mathematical reason and proving will appreciate the condensed treatment, but far too often this text is set to undergraduates ill-prepared for the familiarity that the author expects.
Lives up to its reputation for excellence. If you are a young student of mathematics who wants to one day be deserving of the title of 'mathematician', you must prove yourself on the first seven chapters of this book. It is to the math community what the Bar Mitzvah represents to the Jewish community.
I will take the opportunity to suggest that Lang's Undergraduate Analysis (probably) has a better selection of topics.Chapters 1 - 6 are excellent, 7 is pretty good (but maybe if you're going to only introduce Banach algebras for Stone-Weierstrass, and do nothing else about it, you might as well omit it), and the rest are not bad.
This is an incredible book for budding mathematicians. Be prepared to fill in the gaps in Rudin's propositions. Not an easy read by any means, but worth it! I recommend this book to anyone about to undertake graduate work in Mathematics or to anyone who compulsively thinks about the underpinnings of Calculus on a daily basis.
