https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202035.The_Big_Sky
It spans the years from 1830 to 1843, or roughly from the time that fur trappers and traders, along with the American Indians, had the Far West pretty much to themselves, until the time when settlements were growing up along the Missouri River, when steamboats were plying the western waters, and when settlers were beginning to think about making the overland journey to Oregon.At the center of the story is a Kentucky boy named Boone Caudill, who is barely seventeen when the story begins.
It takes a while to shift gears enough to fully appreciate a three paragraph description of the sound and feel of the north wind in the trees but, once you abandon yourself to the stunningly descriptive style, you’ll begin to get a feel for the things that drew mountain men west.The book certainly doesn’t fit the mold of the western adventure.
Instead, I put him into the same category as the allegory Guthrie’s driving home throughout the book, and that is the telling of a tragic story of the ultimate destruction of something pure and good and holy, precipitated unwittingly by the very men who found it most so.
Γιατί να θέλει κάτι περισσότερο, εκτός ίσως από μια καλή Ινδιάνα να ζει μαζί της στη σκηνή και να ξαπλώνει πλάι της, τη νύχτα;"Πολλοί αναγνώστες βρίσκουν τον ήρωα αντιπαθητικό, ωστόσο θεωρώ πως ο χαρακτήρας του, ο φαινομενικά απλοϊκός και βάρβαρος, διαθέτει μια μεγάλη δόση οξυδέρκειας (μαθαίνει να επιβιώνει, όσο αποξενώνεται από τον πολιτισμό και τους ανθρώπους τόσο περισσότερο γίνεται κομμάτι της φύσης και του περιβάλλοντός του) και μια καταπιεσμένη ευαισθησία, διψάει για αγάπη, αλλά αγνοεί τον τρόπο με τον οποίο αυτή θα μπορούσε εκφραστεί και να εκδηλωθεί (αυτό είναι το τρωτό του σημείο, η αιτία της δυστυχίας του και το αποτέλεσμα της φριχτής κακοποίησης που υπέστη ως παιδί στα χέρια του τυραννικού πατέρα του).
The characters in The Big Sky were not romanticized; mountain men were "hardened, cold and brutal people and their heroism was hidden within tedious, dirty, dangerous or even squalid events."The protagonist, Boone Caudill, was such a man.
Eventually he finds a Blackfoot squaw with whom he settles down for a time, but ends up leaving.Guthrie's prose is wonderful and you can feel the beauty as well as the dangers of the landscape.
It's what we've all felt at one time or another, that, by our presence, we've destroyed the beauty which drew us there.This is a book that each generation should read again.
I want to go to big sky country and I want to do it on horseback and I want to trap beaver and I want to hunt buffalo for food and shelter and I want to trade with Native Americans and I want it to be the 1800's...but that aint gonna happen so I just went ahead and read this book.
Set on the American frontier from 1830 to 1843, this novel is centered on Boone Caudill, who the introduction tells us, is destined to become a savage "mountain man." Problem is from the beginning there isn't anything very civilized about him.
He leaves home at seventeen after punching out his abusive father and stealing his prize rifle, and his even more cherished razor strop--made from an Indian's scalp.
Moreover, well more than half-way through the novel, the only female character of note, Teal Eye, a blackfoot tribe member, is practically mute.
Likely first read this in the early 60s, on my bunk in an USAF barracks. Then, it would have received a 5-star rating. Read most of Guthrie's book thereafter, but after Way West, can't recall connecting with his characters. (My longest college essay probably springs from Guthrie, a comparative look how Blackfeet and Crow Indians interacted with the trappers.)Joseph Walker (non-fiction) now most dominates my memories of the Mountain Men.The Way WestWestering Man: The Life of Joseph Walker
If you're going to write a book set in the west, you'd better be able to do the landscape and all the rest justice.
Great writing ...- The white westerners, like the native inhabitants, live lives much closer to basic animal survival than the "greenhorns" back east and in Europe.
west are tied to this one for sure.Last night the story jumped ahead to 1837 and Boone, Jim and Summers are still together.
Once again a Native American chief questions why the white men have to take everything, kill everything.
If you love the west this book gives a nice feel of what it was like before the white men arrived in force.
Be aware that it's used here (as it was then) in a more generic way and not as a reference to race.Still if it will bother you be aware of it.One of the key parts of the story here is that of the difference between the people who have come to regard the land as the "Indians" do and the ones who can only see the land as something to be divided up and owned.Boone is not a likeable character but the book is a trip into the past.Be aware of the language that could be found offensive and then decide.
An absolute classic of the American West. A flawed hero; an epic quest; a doomed love story. Violence, escape, redemption, survival. Without this book there would there could be no Lonesome Dove and no Blood Meridian - it really is that key a book. And looking back, it is the natural successor to the first half of Huckleberry Finn. No one book will ever capture the whole of what it is to be a part of the North American continent but this key novel comes as close as any that you care to name.
Until the ending, which just sucked.Young Boone decides he's not gonna let Pap hit him anymore, so he steals his old man's rifle, takes a cooked chicken his mom gave him, and sets out for the American West.
There are some adventures, some good and some bad, and a long search for a young Indian girl he wants to marry and finally does.
For a while Guthrie balances this by switching the point of view to two of his companions, but that really just seems to interrupt the flow of the story, and with Dick Summers there's just way too much introspection, bogging down the plot until you're begging for Boone to get mad and kill somebody before you do it yourself.Bottom line, it isn't a bad book.
“Il grande cielo” è un romanzo western, impossibile affermare il contrario, ma anche parecchio atipico nel suo genere (che non amo particolarmente), spingendosi molto oltre quella frontiera inseguita con coraggio e testardaggine dai suoi protagonisti.
Il tempo e come il suo passare cambi le persone e i luoghi, prima di tutto, o ancora la ricerca di una propria dimensione nel mondo (o libertà che la si voglia chiamare), il romanzo spazia su vari e più fronti.A.B. Guthrie riesce molto bene in entrambe le due anime del libro: una più fisica e descrittiva, tipicamente di genere, l'altra invece quasi filosofica, introspettiva, caratterizzando così in modo più completo i personaggi.
http://www.subliminalpop.com/?p=9589“Uno scrittore deve intrattenere, anche quando i suoi manoscritti giacciono su qualche scaffale a marcire, inediti.
Before Lonesome Dove and All the Pretty Horses, A. B. Guthrie's The Big Sky was the go-to novel of the American West. Those who want a gritty and realistic portrayal of the characters and environment that made up the frontier at that time need look no further. Sink your teeth into The Big Sky and at the end when you hunger for more, pick up book two, The Way West, which won Guthrie the Pulitzer Prize.
This is perhaps the best western that I've ever read. From the wonderfully flawed protagonist to the sprawling landscapes and an incredible story, "The Big Sky" is without a doubt one of the great forgotten novels.
THE BIG SKY. (1947). A. B. Guthrie, Jr. ****. Albert Bertram Guthrie tells the story of Boone Caudill, who is seventeen-years old when we first meet him. Boone is an unsettled young man who is just coming into his manhood. He is in trouble; he beat up on a neighbor boy in a fight and broke his jaw. Now the law is after him. On top of it all, he fiinally managed to stand up to his abusive father and whacked him so hard with a stick of firewood that he thought he might have killed him. Boone has n
Albert Bertram Guthrie tells the story of Boone Caudill, who is seventeen-years old when we first meet him.
He is not the mountain man of the usual book of fiction before Guthrie’s effort.
He is a flesh and blood mountain man who lives a life close to that of a criminal.
He fights, kills, and manages to pick up a variety of STDs from squaws along the way.
This novel is very well written, even after excusing it for long passages that get a little boring about life in the mountains, and manages to keep the reader’s interest to the end.
I have not read much fiction set in the old American West.
In fact I believe the only other book set in that place and time that I have read is McMurtry's Lonesome Dove.
But as I plan to read Guthrie's Pulitzer winning book The Way West soon, I decided to read this one first.
Although I loved McMurtry's book more I did enjoy this one as well.
It transported me to the era and I believed everything I read.
However, I didn't connect with Boone nearly as much as I did with the stars of McMurtry's show.
I found Boone harder to reach and more difficult to love.
This story appeals to my sense of adventure, my love of open country and my affection for a time and people now gone.The opening is a bit harsh for some readers and the end left me troubled for a time. I am often visited by the beautiful imagery of this book and its many lessons.
Amazing, incredible, beautiful book. Guthrie's images are stunning, his characters authentic and absorbing.... the book just incredibly powerful. One of the greatest books I have ever read!
I liked this story much more than I liked The Way West.
The book follows the adventures and changing fortunes of Caudill, Deakins, and Summers, as they journey 2000 miles on the Missouri River on a keelboat and as they pursue the wild life of freedom in the Montana territory.The novel is stunning in its descriptions of the river and of the large lonely places, mountains, wildlife, and seasons of the West.
"The Big Sky" is a thoughtful book as well as a yarn, a character study, and a history.Contemporary readers will struggle with the racist language of this book and with its ideas of freedom, individuality and sex which probably will not be entirely their own.
The French man has rescued the chief's daughter from another tribe and figures to use that as an entree into trading with the—let's call them "intolerant", in the parlance of our times—Blackfoot, and Boone takes a real liking to the young squaw.
It wouldn't surprise me if the French weren't considered white at some point but this is the first I can recall hearing that.Back to our story: Our hero is separated from his young squaw, and gets it in his mind that he's going to find her and ask for her hand from her father.
A real mountain man has to be happy alone, and when he's with people he's probably not going to relate to them in the normal ways.
The feel of it got into a man sometimes as he pushed deep into these dark hills, making him wonder, putting him on guard against things he couldn’t lay his tongue to, making him anxious, in a way, for all that he didn’t believe the Indian’s stories.The descriptions of the land are equally magnificent; however, I am largely undecided about this book.
For all the brilliant word play there were long stretches of unnecessary descriptions and little action.
The history comes alive and presents a solid perspective on that time that is brimming over with details, realistic gritty life (such as STIs and wiping sticks and horrid disease) never mincing about or asking forgiveness.
I learned a lot from this book, a lot of context for the time sidling up to America's manifest destiny.
This is a book that will stay with you, that you will want to read pieces aloud to your family, that you will revisit later in your mind as a grand adventure you had and deep thoughts you shared with the characters.
This book appeals so much to my (entirely unrealistic) ideas of how much I would have enjoyed pioneer life and exploring the American frontier.
Nearly the entire novel takes place outside in the wide open spaces of the uninhabited (by white folks, anyways) territories in what would eventually become the western United States.
The imagery is beautiful and is truly the star character in this book.
The few times the book steers us indoors, we feel claustrophobic and full of desire to burst outside the confines of the walls to be back under the big sky.
The use of the N-word and GD was used so heavy throughout the book that it took away from the story.
I understand that this was written awhile back, but the use of these two/three words tainted the entire story.
I struggled with the main character and how dark his was.
Looking back after listening to all 11 discs in this audio book I really do not like the main character and I think I stuck with the entire story hoping that he would change.
A.B Guthrie Jr. does a wonderful job in both the time period and describing the land around the characters.
This is a biography about period of time in history and three great frontiersmen - Boone Caudill, Jim Deakins, and Dick Summers.
Although, the story centers mainly on Boone Caudill, I learned most to love and appreciate Dick Summers and his experiences.
I liked reading it without being in a hurry to finish.
A.B. Guthrie, Jr. is very well known for his "timeless portrayal of the American West." and lived most of his life in Montana.
I would like to read more of his books, one of which won a Pulitzer Prize.
This book was chosen as best novel of the American West by the Western Literature Assn.
A debut novel written in the vernacular gives a realistic view of the west before it was changed by pioneers and civilization. The principle character is a white savage who contributes to the destruction of what he loves. The author won a Pulitzer for his second novel, The Way West, although many believe The Big Sky is better. He also was nominated for an Academy Award for his screenplay Shane. I wonder if this book could be published in today's PC world.
As good a look into the minds of the mountain men and indians of the 1830's and 1840's West (particularly northwest) as I have read. I read this book because it is the first book in a series of which the next book "The Way West" was a Pulitzer Prize winner. This is a novel but there is a lot of historical background in the text that gives the reader a clearer understanding of how people of that time thought.
A.B. Guthrie. This trilogy was some of the best thoughts/writing about the west. Character driven, but in an old school way. Not as dense and Angle of Repose by Stegner, but just as good.
I'm rereading this book just for the joy of it. Makes me want to visit the "big sky" country of Montana. Great history of the western discoveries.
