https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225774.National_Velvet
A truly magical story that has been on my favourite books list since I was a child.Through the years my children and grandchildren have all enjoyed reading this book that makes you think that no matter how big the dream your dreams can come true.I also love the film that was made starring a very young Elizabeth Taylor and Mickey Rooney and I believe it was Elizabeth Taylor's first movie.This has to be one of the best classic stories around that never loses its magic.
While I was reading the book, I was very aware that I was being given a slice of life for a way that people don't live anymore.
How many people even know what butchering is, much less what it would be like to live in front of a kill yard?
The rural way of life, in which most dogs aren't pets, your pony is your means of transportation instead of your hobby, and the village is a long walk away- all pretty much gone.National Velvet is about a girl and her horse, that's true enough.
This is also a book for people who know horses.

Earlier than love, nearer heaven' in the form of horses.When she wins a piebald horse in a raffle, she recognises he's something special.
But how can a girl in 1930s England get near Aintree?Peter Flannery rescues National Velvet from Hollywood, returning 14 year old Velvet to her Sussex butcher's family in the 1930s.
A welcome return for Enid Bagnold's strange, inventive fairytale about a young amateur girl rider who takes an untrained horse over the stiffest course in the world and wins.Sound design: Eloise WhitmoreAuthor: Enid BagnoldDramatised by Peter FlanneryDirector/Producer: Melanie HarrisExecutive Producer: Polly ThomasA Sparklab production for BBC Radio 4.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b03m7p9z
The first half of the book is purely a family story, and that has its very odd moments, too.
Lots of the older girls looking like "golden greyhounds" and being beautiful and Velvet looking boyish or like Dante (huh?).
(Mrs. Brown, with all her imperturbability and her closing of doors in reporters' faces - I think I might love her.) Mi:Mi watched them go off with a queer look in his eye, a look old Dan had worn when he saw Araminty Brown strike out from the brim of the land.
Like Dan, his father, he hardly saw the faces of women.First published 1935.
There was an illuminating introduction to that book, in which the editor explained how Gibbons was parodying a writing style and subject matter popular in that era.
(If you've read any D.H. Lawrence you will have a feeling for what I'm referring to: the inarticulate but powerful Nature of women and that sort of thing.) I couldn't help think of that essay when I read this book.
It is an exceedingly strange book in some ways, and not really meant for children.
Really, the book is about family -- and about will and desire.
If you can succumb to the peculiar charms of the writing style, you might well enjoy this book .
Sometimes, I just can't stand books written in "old" style writing, but I just adored National Velvet.
it was all just very well done.First off, Velvet is a fourteen year old girl who aspires to become the best rider in England and win the Grand National.
She's very sweet and innocent, but very determined and she loves her family, and of course Mi and her horse.The story itself was well laid out: how Velvet wins Pie, trains him, and the excitment of the Grand National.
My issue is with the style and content of the story -- because the overall plot is just dandy!
It's different than almost any other book I've read, thus, it was hard to just "fall into" the story seamlessly.
Believe me, I've read a LOT of books, and classic literature is a personal forté of mine.
In my humble opinion, of course.)Another big issue I have with the book is that there was quite a sprinkling of foul language in it.
In fact, I had both an abridged version and unabridged version of the book.
I have found a situation where the movie is astoundingly better than the book.
After that Mi (her best friend) tells her that she should enter the Grand National.
They enter her as James Tasky as girls aren't allowed to ride in the race.
Velvet goes on the win the race but ends up getting disqualified because she gets falls of Pie due to exhaustion and when they check her out to make sure she's ok they figure out she's a girl.
She insists that she wasn't the one that won the race it was Piebald.
She didn't care if she went down in history she just wanted everyone to see understand what a legendary horse Piebald was.
My children and I just read this book together.
The storyline was refreshing and tender but the writing style was choppy.
The author gave beautiful descriptions, yet it was a hard book to read aloud.
We read many books outloud, this one was the most laborious.
We kept going because we loved the storyline.
After completing the book, we watched the movie starring Elizabeth Taylor.
I know my children listened to the book because they pointed out all the discrepancies.
This is proof that although it was a tough read, the children had great comprehension and a love of the original story.
I suspect not, but since my acquaintance with modern girls is small, I don't know.) I read all the horsey books I could find in our small local library.
(I also read dog books, but I still read those.)I remember reading National Velvet either in late middle school or early high school.
She wins him for a shilling in a village raffle, and somewhere along the way, decides she could bring him into the history books by riding in the National Steeplechase race.
"No." The men in this story either HELP (Mi Taylor) or don't hinder (pretty much the rest of them) Velvet.
'The Pie' and also Velvet have become two of the most common and well loved names within English Literature and fiction and this book i can say with certainty goes much deeper that just a mere children's story.
Fortunately within the story this 'dream' was made possible and i remember myself reading this when i was younger and cheering at the end of the book, being that i was so happy in the knowlege that the main character and my heroine had sucseeded majestically.
This is not just a children's story but a book that many will love for its strong themes, emotion and depth of feeling, that make it such a winner.
For the average horse fanatic in 1930s England I bet the book would've been a mere couple of hours worth of reading.
You could cut out at least half the paragraphs in the book without losing anything in terms of story.
However, even in the face of all these negatives I was somehow able to finish the story.
I also came out the book knowing a little bit more about horses, which certainly isn't a bad thing.
But I think the most important thing I got out of this book was that reading is a very subjective experience.
Even as a middle aged woman, National Velvet remains one of the most beautifully yet earnestly written books I've ever read.
That Velvet is the only homely child in the household, again, Bagnold creates triumph out of the female spirit that doesn't depend on beauty.
I adored the prose.
I adored the dialogue.
Velvet was written as a scrawny, sickly child whose sheer determination and ambition for her horse made her great.
To cast the beautiful Elizabeth Taylor, who could no more pass for a boy than a Kardashian, to play the frankly unattractive Velvet was a sell out and a slap in the face to any plain, flat chested girl with a dream who might have been inspired by the book.
Rather oddly written -- it took me a few chapters to get used to the style (and, rather like Narrow Dog To Carcassonne, which I read earlier this year, I just had to make peace with always being vaguely confused about what was going on).
It's definitely more about a girl and the people around her than about the horses in her life -- the horses are often overshadowed or just plain forgotten.
I still found it enjoyable despite its quirks and I especially liked that the story doesn't just end with the race but goes a bit further to deal with the frenzy of fame and controversy.
I watched this movie several times as a child, but never read the book.
I am a horse fan and so I've watched most movies that have something to do with horses.
I couldn't really identify with the main character.I now understand why the movie was like that - because the book is strange too :) The story isn't very cohesive and lacks depth.
It made the story slightly comical, but most of the time it just didn't make sense.I'm not sure why this story became a classic nor why the movie is considered a great horse movie.
And I wouldn't recommend this book to any horse-lover.
There's more to the canaries in this book than horses.
I haven't read this book for a while, but when I was like Velvet, a young, horse-crazy dreamer, this book was a definite big hit.
I totally understood how Velvet would "loose her lunch" at the sight of a beautiful horse, and this book supported my own horse love.
I loved the movie, but never could figure out why they made the horse a big chestnut instead of what he was, a Piebald, which is how he got his name.
I remember when reading this book that I fell into the story, I think I breathed it and lived it.
I started this book with my 10 year old daughter as a read aloud as I loved the movie from my childhood.
But after a couple of chapters we gave up because the rural English language Bagnold uses was too difficult for us to understand.
Also the story just wasn’t grabbing us.
And it’s not like we don’t enjoy older books because we loved The Secret Garden, The Little House books and Anne of Green Gables.
We did rent the Elizabeth Taylor/Mickey Rooney movie which, IMO, has stood the test of time as a classic movie of a young girl achieving her dream.
I wish the book had done the same.

I remember, as a kid, trying and trying to read this book. It was tough to get into. That wall of British culture that my American sensibilities could only barely breach. I desperately wanted to spend time with fictional horses. Can't recall if I finished National Velvet, or if I liked it, but I'll always enjoy way the title feels in my mouth.
Exhilarating read about impossible dreams' being realized. I read this aloud to a ten year old daughter whose mild interest in horses had been quenched by a broken arm in the practice ring, but we both still loved the story. No, it's not realistic, but when did fiction always have to be?
You know, when I was young(er) I loved this book because it was a good story. Now that I'm old(er) I'm stunned by just what a truly fantastic writer Enid Bagnold is.
Film was better than the book - that's rare isn't it!
But there was so much story here that I feel has nothing to do with The Pie. I understand we're setting up Velvet's life with talk of her sister's birds or her brother's tantrums, not only do we not see any of Velvet and Mi's training of The Pie, but we don't see the race at all.To me, that's the most amazing part of a horse novel: getting to ride a race with the jockey.
It was a disappointing climax to the story to not get to feel that rush, to go through the race with Velvet.
From the opening setting of the scene that introduces us to Velvet, to the rare involved comprehension of her entire family, each with their own remarkable quirks, including Mi Taylor, who is at first more of a general errands-man for the slaughterhouse business, I found myself quickly absorbed into the people and story.There's a line early on that I particularly love that describes the mother, Mrs. Brown: (view spoiler)["You can never tell what Mother's thinking," said Mally to Velvet."She doesn't think where we do," said Velvet.
"She thinks at the back." (hide spoiler)]There are also some very odd elements not included in the movie, probably to streamline the screenplay, which may or may not delight the reader; I do appreciate the closeness of the sisters here where the focus was understandably on Elizabeth Taylor in the movie.
I read this long ago, as a horse-crazy girl.
This book brought the world of steeplechasing, England's culture, racing culture, to me.
Long before Dick Frances wrote about racing, Enid Bagnold wrote about a girl who dreamed of riding in the Grand National, the toughest Steeplechase in the world.
Of course, girls couldn't be jockeys, so the heroine must pretend to be one.
I lived vicariously through the heroine, who Elizabeth Taylor played in the movie, with Mickey Rooney as the trainer who helps her.
This is a book I would love to re-read as an adult.
So many books...so little time!
A bit slow in places.
But written accurately as to what it all wouldve been like.
So believable in that way.
Encourages young people todream big and to kep moving towards their dreams.
To say absolutely anything is possible.
The characters are written without much depth in my opinion but are written with individual, charming and good natured personalities.
Im not sure if people really are like that, but being it is more a story for teens...
This book/ the movie are virtually identical, except on the description of what velvet brown looks like.
In this book she is certainly no elizabeth taylor.
I can't believe I've never seen the movie, nor read the book! I loved horses when I was kid and even took riding lessons. All has been rectified now. Will finally view the movie tonight. I did enjoy the horse related parts, since I am familiar with the terms...I did not care for any of the butchering parts, skimmed over those passages pretty quickly. And for some reason found myself annoyed with Velvet's siblings. I wonder what I would have thought of the story had I read it as a youngster?
One of the best books ever written about childhood, adulthood and all the days in between. Horse lovers will of course find this fascinating, but it's a book that's much more than a "horse-book". It's a book about family and relationships and knowing your own self and others. I can't recommend it too highly.
The story was enjoyable, though not what I expected. Though it is indeed a horse story, it's also the story of a family in post-war England. I would imagine that it would be a bit of a slog for young people to get through; there's a lot of British slang and horse terms that many would find quite literally foreign. Avid horse lovers, though, will undoubtedly want to read it.
