https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372807.Dragon_s_Bait
I wish there was a sequel.
He's a dragon who can change into human form - and an exceptionally good-looking human form - and is given plot-related reasons to travel with the heroine, Alys, and come into intimate situations with her.
These are very basic philosophical questions, but the way they're dealt with here...Furthermore, even when Alys succeeds in getting Selendrile to agree to help her with her revenge, it's never just a matter of him burning down a few buildings or eating some cows.
She has to plot on how to make her revenge as fitting as possible.
This could actually be taken as really cool meta-textual observation about the way we have chosen to write these stories about dragons and maidens over time.On the other hand, there is very little character development when it comes to the secondary characters, very little thought about character-motivation and a confusing world-building that is both historical and fantastical but doesn’t really care about pesky historical details or in presenting a carefully constructed fantasy world.Not to mention that there is a fairly heavy-handed, shallow moral lesson about revenge and how bad it is.
But then they end up together anyway in the most abrupt ending of ALL TIMES in which Alys ends up FOLLOWING him because she has NO OTHER CHOICE, even though he possibly EATS PEOPLE and doesn’t really show his emotions toward her except when it comes to mocking her humanity.
Published in 1992, this book suffers from the "this book is for young adults so it must be short" mentality that existed back then.
In her review for School Library Journal, Margaret Chang observed "While the writing is smooth and the story moves quickly, the girl's emotions are not convincingly portrayed.
The story's tone wobbles, sometimes keeping a comic distance from tragic events.
The abrupt ending may leave readers puzzled as to the heroine's motivations." I think that if this book had been written today, the author would have been able to flesh out the characters better and given the reader much more detailed descriptions.
K. Rowling -- young adult fiction will never be the same again.
I've read a few short YA books lately, most of which have been good.
The dragon character doesn't have much of a personality at all, and the girl accused of being a witch is driven only by revenge.
I was waiting for the part where the girl realized that revenge doesn't make you feel any better, but I don't think she really got to that point, not truly.
I still don't understand why the dragon is drawn to the girl, nor why he decides to help her with her revenge.
Fifteen or sixteen year old Alys is falsely accused of being a witch by neighbors and sentenced to death by dragon.
Eventually Alys is able to extricate herself, but has nowhere to go.
Amused, the dragon wheels around and lands by her.
She clenches her eyes shut and waits.
. .and waits.
. .until, finally, Alys opens her eyes--only to find a nude young man with long white hair and purple eyes staring at her!
He turns out to be the dragon in human form, and agrees to spare her and help her with her plans of revenge against the townspeople.
What I liked about the book was that there was a lot of good scenes in each chapter. I also liked how the girl was able to be near a dragon without the dragon eating her. What I didn't like about the book was that there wasn't that many graphic scenes in the books that I have read before.
I enjoy stories like this one.
Not necessarily stories where the maiden is rescued by a handsome, mysterious hero, but those where help comes from an unexpected quarter - where someone who's supposed to be an enemy turns out to be a friend.
I also like a turn-about, where the weaker party is called upon to do some rescuing of the stronger.So theme-wise, I'm fine with this book.
I don't read a lot of YA novels, but I did recently enjoy the only other Velde book I've read, Companions of the Night.
That book surprised me, so I thought I'd try another from Velde.
Not your usual fantasy tropes - what happens when the girl staked out for the dragon to eat, insteads joins forces with him to get revenge on her tormentors?This quite good (albeit short) book.I really enjoyed how the author did not 'humanize' the dragon, but instead constantly reminded the reader how alien he was, how he did not think like a human. I definitely read more adventures of Alys and Selandrine.
I read this quite a while ago - probably when I was in middle school, and all I can remember is... loved it!
Not the author's best. Reads like a genre Romance for 'tweens. Alys is such a princess; sure, sometimes she thinks about and even says independent or smart things, but basically it's a good thing she's got someone to rescue her. Slight & superficial.
Featuring an annoying male lead, Selendrile is a typical pretty boy with exotic magical features.
Entirely unlikeable, Selendrile is borderline abusive with our female lead, Alys.
Sexy, right?Alys likes to think of herself as an independent woman because she works in her father's shop and looks down on all the village boys for their lack of ambition.
She has a crisis of conscience about her plans with him 75% through the book, but it isn't fleshed out very well.
It's a very short book, ~200 pages, so there really is no time for anything else.All right, aside from the characters and the plot the writing isn't that bad.
All have been (very short) competent fantasies which haven't worked for me.In this particular outing, we have a typical story about revenge - which is basically (view spoiler)[a little morality lesson about how vengeance is a bad bad thing and you shouldn't do it.
This is not necessarily wrong, if predictable, but when you set up a story about a family who deliberately lie about a girl being a witch, call in a witchfinder, and have her summarily bundled off to be sacrificed (causing her father to have a heart attack), then you need to balance your decision to forego revenge with some form of justice.
It was short, i think it was the shortest fantasy book I've ever read.It's a standalone and as such it is entertaining as a light read, it lacks depth.
This is what I think happened: this book came out in the period where fantasy was more marginalized than SF (can you tell I'm not a SF lover at all?) and during this time it was thought that children and teens have the attention span of mice so fantasy novels that exceeded 450 pages were considered already too long, so they cut them into sections of 300-400 pages per volume.
He smiled, but this time the amusement didn't reach his eys.
The squire, too, as I recall." He tipped his head slightly as though waiting for a response, the same gesture he had made while in dragon shape.Alys has been accused of witchcraft and has been left tied to a stake, an offering to a dragon.
If she returns to her village, they will simply stake her out again.
Suddenly, he is before her and she shuts her eys.
. .She realizes that the dragon and the boy are the same and tells him her plan for revenge against the villagers who left her out here, and killed her father.
The dragon likes revenge and agrees to help her.
The townspeople are convinced Alys is a witch after people accuse her of suspicious behaviour around the village.
I didn't expect it to come in the form of help from a boy with pale hair and amethyst eyes who could shape-shift into any animal.
I guess I expected any story with a dragon to have some epic fight scene or something but there were actually more scenes of him shifting between dragon and human (and ending up naked in the process >_<).
Anyhow, the 'dragon' helps Alys seek revenge on the people who had wrongly accused her.
Alys is a young girl in a medieval village like any other--until she's abruptly accused of being a witch and staked out on a hillside to appease a dragon. Furious at the betrayal, she makes a deadly deal with the dragon--she'll help him and he'll kill the villagers. Their travels together bring them to a better understanding of each other's prickly natures, but the final reckoning looms...
The main character fearless and confident never lets anyone get in her way and tell her what to do.
In the book Alys the main character was one of the only witches in her town and was treated like a monster.
So she took matters in to her own hands and used her witch powers to curse the siners who despised her.
This book is good for people who enjoy fantasy and like people getting/receiving justice for their actons.
Alys is the most fearless person ever and a theme is to not let people get in your way especially if they are not kind
I know people don't like these sorts of endings anymore, because everything has to be talked to death and figured out before the last page of the book.
I don't know if it's due to a change in the profile of writers, but it seems that there are a lot of boy-crazy protagonists out there.
But things go wrong.I usually give all spoilers out, but the ending is such that I think this book really has both characters learning something of themselves.
There is a big difference between - A romance written in a fantasy setting; and- A fantasy novel with romance in it. Most authors do not write a well-balanced story with both elements – to use a famous example, Harry Potter is heavy on the fantasy and very light on the romance. (Unless, of course, if you’re reading fanfiction.)Dragon’s Bait is neither. It is a story of a girl and a dragon, and as a fantasy novel it is a total fail, because the world-building was not well thought out at all. - Yo
Why can't you she'd your skin and turn into a butterfly?" She didn't understand.Because Alys is a foolish girl, and Selendrile is one irritating bastard who is always undressing himself in front of her for laughs.By the light of the torches she saw that his hair was the color the mane had been, palest gold, and it hung almost to his waist.
"She liked you."For some reason Alys thinks that a dragon who is-	over 300 years old-	could shapeshift into human form at whimdoes not understand the concept of lust/romantic attraction.
Short, sweet and wonderful, Dragon's Bait is perfect for people with short attention spans or those who aren't into swallowing high fantasy -- and for everyone else, too.
Vivian Vande Velde takes the classic theme of revenge and turns it into an enjoyable fantasy tale for all ages.Alys.
The whole novel is about her personal growth, and watching her develop is the real treat of the story, especially as so much of it happens when she's butting heads with Selendrile (hot name alert!), the dragon.
Such unspoken-for chemistry, yet so chaste in the best way -- love love love love love.The plot is straightforward: Alys wants revenge.
I would love a sequel, but at the same time I felt that this book was a complete and satisfying story by itself.
The book spans less than a week, but by the end of the adventures both the heroine and the dragon have come to learn something new and their outlooks are changed because of that.
The dragon is an amusing character and the character dynamics between the two is fun to read.
I find the world building lacking, but there's enough descriptions to understand what kind of world they live in.Overall, a fun and fast read (finished it in 2 hours) that I would recommend to anyone who wants a little escape from reality.
Meh. I wanted to like it, but I never felt like it quite settled into a purposeful story.
Yeah, that doesn't make a lot of sense, I know, but I'm at a loss to try and describe why this particular story didn't float my boat.
Maybe I just didn't feel like Vande Velde was certain what kind of a person/dragon Selendrile was supposed to be.
Or maybe she intended the ambiguity, but it fell flat?
Anyhow, I read for character and story, so having the main characters not gel made for a frustrating book for me.For readers' advisors: story doorway, plus setting for those who like medieval fantasy
I have read longer books, more developed books, books with sequels; and yet many do not have the charm of this hastily written little gem.
The story provokes a lot of thought every time I re-read it.
And while I've owned a copy for years (not the same copy -- I keep giving mine away and then replacing it, though lately I've been keeping a spare to stay ahead of the curve), it hasn't yet lost its re-read value.
Considering that I am a very picky reader, that says a lot.
This was a short read, but it didn't change the fact that this was wonderful.I liked the fact that this book explores the question, "Is it wrong to yearn for revenge?" "Will you truly be satisfied when you have done the deed?"Also, you can actually see that the girl changes for the better at the end of the book.
Heck, there's barely any romance here but I don't think I currrr because the story, even without that wonderful plus of an ending (view spoiler)[ The dragon invites the girl to live with him.
(hide spoiler)] was pretty awesome.
Alys is accused of witchcraft and therefor left, tied up, on a mountain by the people of her village, to be eaten by the small dragon roaming nearby.
She kind of wants to get this over with so she starts throwing rocks at it to get it's attention.
Instead of eating her, he offers his help for her to get revenge on the people who made the accusations.
She agrees and they set out to get revenge.I loved the entire book from start to finish and am happy to give it 5 stars!
To this day, Dragon's Bait is one of my absolute favorite books.
Basically a young girl, Alys, is accused of being a witch and as her punishment, she is "sacrificed" to the dragon.
The dragon, Selendrile, has no interest in eating her; he's actually amused by her overwhelming desire for revenge.
He then agrees to help her plan out her revenge on the town that falsely declared her to be a witch.
While reading Dragon's Bait, I was able to connect with Alys beautifully.
I would encourage any fantasy loving child, teenager or adult to pick up this book.
Wanted a quick read and choose this book.
The set up for the story is interesting but not particularly well executed and I didnt really like the main character.
While I have enjoyed how this author often does the unexpected in her genre stories the moral lessons from this book were no surprise.
I also got really frustrated with what I saw as obviously solutions to problems that the characters just couldnt figure out (at one point yelling at the book "just cut off his thumb!").
A fun book to read, but more of a snack than a meal.
Alys is an independent girl running her father's shop during his illness, when she is accused of being a witch by her neighbors, who really just want her shop.
She is tied up outside the village and left for the dragon that has been rampaging to eat.But when he arrives, instead of eating Alys, he offers her a chance to take revenge on her enemies.
Should Alys take the dragon up on his offer?
Wouldn't it be ironic if she ended up committing the crimes she has already been found guilty of doing?Clever, funny, and with a surprise twist at the end, I found this to be a very satisfying read.
I read this in middle school (I think that was about ten years ago) and just picked it up again when I happened to spot it while shelving books at work. While not great literature by any means, it's a very quick and very satisfying read. Although I haven't read Twilight, I suspect this is its equivalent, only with a dragon instead of a vampire. If you're looking for a sort of feel-good fantasy novel (and appreciate romance in a story), this will entertain you for a couple of hours. I thoroughly enjoyed it - again.
