https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1988386.Kai_Lung_s_Golden_Hours
This review invites you to kick back, turn off the phone, and enjoy the journey in the company of Ernest Bramah's wonderful Oriental creation - Kai Lung, itinerant story teller, master of Litotes, Euphemism and Understatement, and Apologist Extraordinary for Slow Reading.
In KLGH, Kai Lung, captured by the Shan Tien and "the secretary of his hand, the contemptible Ming-shu", is befriended by the maiden Hwa-mei.
Those of humble origin, especially tea-house maidens and the like, are only really at home among stories of the exalted and quick-moving, the profusion of their robes, the magnificence of their palaces, and the general high-minded depravity of their lives.
This humble and inoffensive person, whose views could not possibly be of interest to exalted persona
I tried to write my comments on Ernest Bramah’s Kai Lung’s Golden Hours, which I just finished, in the same style:In the opinion of this lowly reader, the esteemed author before our unworthy eyes has created a gem of the highest quality, polished by fine craft.But you can only do this so long before you get frustrated, which is why you have to admire Bramah, because he could maintain this oblique and ornate style throughout and still manage to tell a compelling and, more than often, extremely humorous story.The titular character, Kai Lung, is a storyteller who runs afoul of the local authorities, in particular a rather nasty advisor.
Here's Kai Lung, a professional story-teller, who claims he knows a story for every situation in life.
He gets thrown in jail, and soon takes on the role of a male Scheherazade, telling stories to save his life.
His own story isn't that amazing, but the stories he tells!
And it's not even that - it's the idea that there is a story for every situation.
In a sense, this is one of the more realistic books I've ever read - in the way it mirrors life.
So I'm just a little amazed and sitting back right now, wondering if I have a story for every situation.
It is a fantasy realm.
It should be approached from that mindset.There is an overarching narrative line to “Kai Lung’s Golden Hours’ but it is more of a device than a plot.
The book exists largely to hold the stories, and the stories exist largely to hold Bramah’s words, his witticisms and observations.
Aside from that, the tales are amusing but rather slight.One might see the influence of Bramah’s friend and mentor Jerome K.
Jerome in the work.
The fantasy element, however, adds another layer to this, gives it a timeless quality.
‘Golden Hours’ is by no means a great book, but it remains an enjoyable read.
Written in 1925, the language is quite different but rewarding. The over arching story line is similar to Arabian nights with each tale putting off the end of the story teller. For anyone who loves mythical tales from the past.
I don't know much about Chinese culture or anything, but I really enjoyed this book. It's similar to 1001 Nights where the narrator tells stories to delay his death. The language and narration takes a little getting used to, but it has a lot of subtle (and not so subtle) wit and humor.
filled with corrupt mandarins, beautiful maidens, greedy merchants, alchemical potions, and more." I had a bad feeling I was in for clumsy ham-fisted racist portrayals of China as imagined by a British gentlemen.I was pleasantly surprised.
The book is a series of stories and/or parables loosely linked by plot (storyteller is falsely accused of a crime, and tells stories to delay his capital punishment), but it isn't dry -- there's a level of silliness that reminds me faintly of PG Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster books.
Written by a British writer nearly a century ago about an even more distant time in late imperial China, this book should not be taken as historically or culturally accurate (although it's not that far off the mark) -- but simply as storytelling.
In many ways, "Golden Hours" is very similar to "Arabian Nights." Both are a collection of pseudo-folk tales strung together by a frame story about the fictional storyteller him/herself.
Also, in both cases, the psuedo-folk tales are not "authentic," but rather represent a literary attempt by latter-day outsiders to re-create the past.In a nutshell, the stories in "Golden Hours" are enjoyable and the language is entertaining, but don't look for depth or profundity.
Just be entertained.

From Maria Bustillos: Through Orwell I met with two lifelong favorites, Ernest Bramah and Father Huc. Orwell recommends Bramah’s Max Carrados stories, which are not his finest work, yet still engaging.
For example, he can read the newspaper with his fingertips, as if it were braille.
My carefully suspended disbelief collapsed like a dying soufflé.) But then I came to find that Bramah also wrote the Kai Lung series of chinoiserie novels that I do read over and over and always will, the way I do Wodehouse.
They are magical and hilarious, guaranteed to dispel even the most stubborn case of the blues.Read more http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs...

I found this book absolutely delightful. I was nervous about Orientalism, but didn't find, in the event, that Bramah exoticized his setting conspicuously, and insofar as Chinese culture was invoked or mentioned, it was not treated as primitive or comic. Although the diction is modeled on translations of Chinese folktales, the rollicking romance is positively Wodehousian, and the mores and social debates satirized are very clearly those of interwar Britain, where Bramah was writing. The result I found irresistibly charming.
Every edition shown says that this book was 1st published in 1972. This is impossible, since Dorothy L Sayers refers to it in Busman's Honeymoon, which was set in 1935. There must have been an earlier edition. I think I read an edition my mother had.Anyway, my impression is that, as with most anthologies, it was uneven in quality, but I liked the language overall.
Delightful book in which the framing narrative sets up the opportunity for the protagonist to tell a plethora of stories. Drags a bit in the middle, but enjoyable. A British book about China and over a hundred years old, so expect a little Orientalism. I absolutely love the pretentious self-abasement.
This 1923 collection by an author I've never heard of was great fun. Bramah was a genre writer, and a contemporary of Wells and Conan Doyle, who overshadowed him, but he is a lot of fun to read. This book is a sort of Chinese Arabian Nights - a storyteller condemned to death has to tell the judge a story every day to prolong his own life. The stories are weird and fanciful and very funny.
Beautiful, controlled style, and quite a sense of sarcasm. Unfortunately, it was a bit short on actual substance. It's basically a series of short stories ("folktales"), most of which are moderately interesting, but I found it hard to stay motivated to continue as each short story ended.
Charming, beautifully written and wickedly funny. If Saki had decided to set his stories in ancient China, they might have turned out like these. Kai Lung's Story of The Willow Plate Embellishment is one of the cleverest - and most amusing - explanations - of the origins of blue willow china.
Kai Lung's golden hours by Ernest Bramah (1957)
Maybe some other time. Too densely written for where my head is currently at. This book needs focused, patient reading. It's poetic prose. :)
Definitely my favorite book of the summer so far. The writing is beautiful and imaginative and--if you pay careful attention--wickedly funny.
A tapestry of stories laid within each other, wonderfully thoughtful and spun. As the wise man says, a review may be read once with disbelief but with the second time comes understanding.
