https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821000.Now_We_Are_Six
This has stuck in my mind like a sing-song mnemonic, all my life since BEFORE I was six!"They're changing the guard at Buckingham Palace -Christopher Robin went down with Alice.Alice is marrying one of the guards!('A soldier's life is TERRIBLY hard,'said Alice...)“
“I wasn’t afraid,” said Pooh, said he, “I’m never afraid with you.”Filed under Things I'll Read To My Children. Totally cute and funny.Find more of my books on Instagram
Milne accomplishes the extraordinary feat of seeing from the realistic and make-believe viewpoint at the same time (something which comes as second-nature to children, but we lose it as we grow up): therefore, Pooh is a live character to Christopher, even when he knows that he is nothing but a toy (the poem Us Two and The Friend).There are a lot of nonsense poems about silly grownups, quite a few of them kings and emperors, but behaving like spoilt children-a child's view of himself, maybe!
Don't dictators behave like spoilt kids on a rampage - with much deadlier results than Milne's characters produce, of course.) There are poignant poems of a child's world which so incomprehensible to adults so that they shoo him away (Come Out With Me).
I loved this so so so so so much!!!!! I highly recommend this collection of children's poems. They were so adorable and I've already reread my favorites over and over!!
Of all the knights in AppledoreThe wisest was Sir Thomas TomHe multiplied as far as fourAnd knew what nine was taken fromTo make eleven. He could writeA letter to another knight.
When I was very young, I eyed this book cautiously.Six seemed immeasurably ancient. I feared being infected with age.
A. Milne and contains poems not only of Pooh Bear (who claims he was looking for Piglet and wandered through this book by mistake), but also of the Knight Whose Armor Didn’t Squeak, the Two little Bears, Alexander the Beetle, and bad King John.Here is one of my favorite poems from this book.Knight-in-ArmourWhenever I’m a shining Knight, I buckle on my armour tight; And then I look about for things, Like Rushings-Out, and Rescuings, And Savings from the Dragon’s Lair, And fighting all the Dragons there.
And sometimes when our fights begin, I think I’ll let the Dragons win.
One is never too old for A. A. Milne.
As 1920's poetry collections for children go, this is fairly decent... i kind of thought it was a winnie-the-pooh book but.. whatever.Technically Pooh is in this but its barely a cameo. I'm not a fan of poetry either, or i guess because this is for kids we may have to call it nursery rhyme? Anyway its.... fine.
Thank god I had help from my boyfriend since we didn't have much time, I manage to look through everything and come up with 86 books that I want, a few for my two reading friends and off I could go.
There has once been a boyfriend of my mother whom collected books (I only liked him because of that of course) and he collected them, Winnie The Pooh stories.
I expected a full story written about Winnie but I didn't get that, I got poems which was something else but it was lovely.
Lunchtime read with the 2 year old. It really surprised me that he would already enjoy something that wasn't a picture book! I liked all of the poems and loved many of them. "King John's Christmas" will always be a favorite because I will ALWAYS hear it in Elisabeth Elliot's voice.
This book is so beautiful with poems and illustrations.
I can't help but to smile when I read poems that I can relate to when I was a little kid.
Like collecting insects and tadpoles, rooting for a drop of rain on the window to finish 1st, or questioning a lot of silly things.
These are my favourites from this collection:1.
Solitude2.
Busy 3.
Binker 4.
Down by The Pond6.
The Little Black Hen7.
Swing Song8.
Cradle Song9.
Waiting At The Window10.
Wind On The Hill11.
In The Dark12.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Some lovely poems and they were just as I imagine a child will mark his days by, but not very consistent.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
This selection, several years after 'When We Were Very Young' is even better. I took a liking to almost all the poems and admired the range of rhythm and rhyme that takes place. Again, Milne plays so much on using the form of poetry to reflect on Christopher's life and adventures and it works so well in terms of there being poems which reflect childhood - a lot like Rosen's early stuff. I'd certainly have a classroom copy and would want to share so many with the class.
Sweet enough, but ultimately forgettable. Seems to be a fairly tenuous link to the Winnie-the-Pooh series, as I think he was mentioned in only two of the poems.I'm certainly glad to have finished off the series, but this doesn't hold a candle to the first book.
One of my favorite books as a kid; I got a copy for my sixth birthday and I loved its unique illustrations, its vibrant poetry and its originality and imagination. Definitely a classic and a great book for children.
"I wasn't afraid" said Pooh, said he "I'm never afraid with you".I find Pooh so poignant now that I am older. Reading it feels like a gentle hug for my hyperactive brain. It's like sinking into a warm bath after a full day on your feet.It encourages me to stop, breathe and enjoy.Such beautiful stories.
Apparently, this is a book for 6-year olds. It says it right there in the title. Yeah - but it's heart-felt, sincere and funny. Plus, wise. So I think everyone could give this book a go, whatever age you are.
A charming collection of poetry exploring life through a child's eyes. Some childhood woes and joys you never forget, and this reminded me of many of them.
Most of these poems just feel like moments where a happy father watched with amused joy at his children playing, and trying to imagine what was going on in their heads -- and that's probably exactly what he WAS doing. It's like taking snapshots or video, except Milne did it in poetry and little imaginative stories.The classic illustrations are delightful as well... Pooh Bear and company, kinds and queens and nights, Christopher Robin... they all just pop off the page.
A tiny, tiny book of tiny, tiny poems, filled with lots of rhyme and repetition and delightful silliness. I was happy to see this little poem that I've used for ages during Poem-in-Your Pocket:When I was one, I just begun.When I was two, I was nearly new.When I was three, I was hardly me.When I was four,I was not much more.When I was five, I was just alive.But now I’m six,I'm as clever as clever.So I think I'll be six now, forever and ever!
“So—here I am in the dark alone,There’s nobody here to see;I think to myself,I play to myself,And nobody knows what I say to myself;Here I am in the dark alone,What is it going to be?I can think whatever I like to think,I can play whatever I like to play,I can laugh whatever I like to laugh,There’s nobody here but me.”
This is a book I want every child to hear and I will be saving it and reading to my future children!The language is so lovely - it's fun to read and listen to and I can imagine children really enjoying it. It's just a very well-written book and I like.
This one was really fun to read aloud to Phoebe, most of them were laugh out loud funny and sweet.
Four stars because I loved it. One extra star for nostalgia.
Another whimsical read by A.A. Milne and although again it falls short of the prose, this poetry collection was much more fun to read than the third book in the box set I'd gotten. It's quirky, silly, and warm hearted, written with the soul of a six year old and inviting you to not take things so seriously all the time. Highly recommend to read to kids or to enjoy at your own leisure, because why not? Fun, smile inducing, and a great introduction to poetry for kids.
A. Milne says in his forward, " (Pooh) walked through (the book) one day, looking for his friend Piglet, and sat down on some of the pages by mistake." Pooh's appearance in several poems was a pleasant surprise; however I did enjoy several of Milne's other poems that included other characters.
This collection of poems was very fun to read, and I think children would enjoy reading or being read aloud this work.
In his poems "Forgiven" and "Cherry Stones", Milne uses these drawings to influence the form.
This clever use of form helps engage the reader.
So, my mom picked up this book while I was in the library, and when I got out, told me in so many words how boring this book was.
I laughed and told her it had a few gems in it (like the excerpt below that I loved), but no excuses can be made; the first two books were definitely better, with everything.
Poem books aren't Milne's strong point.
The book is similar to the poetry books “When We were very Young”.
The poem contains wonderful rhyming pattern and is very rhythmic which makes easy to relate and sound similar to nursery rhymes.
Now we are six is a great children's poetry book.
This book was written by the famous A.A. Milne for children in the ages of five to eight.
This book contains a variety of great poems where everyone's favorite characters appear; Whine the Pooh, piglet, Christopher Robbin, and etc.
I love this book because of the conversation that go on trough out the story with pooh and Christopher ribbon.
I think this story would be a great story to use as an example of poetry.
I personally decided to give this book a five out of five because of the poem "Now we are six"
