https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60154.The_Sailor_on_the_Seas_of_Fate
This proves to be bad idea as it leads you to suspect that the eternal champion is a handy excuse for writing the same character over and over, with the suspicion being that Moorcock is just better at weird fantasy stuff than characters...My son saw me picking the book up and said something along the lines of "But that's old, why are you bothering?" To which I responded with exasperation, "Fantasy doesn't have a sell by date!
The characters don't feel real.""Nonsense!" I said wittily, and walked off with my 40 year old book.But the thing is.
But instead the Lords of Chaos offer him a less common odyssey: a journey upon the “seas of fate” that border other planes, other times and wash up on the shores of his own particular destiny.Elric has three distinct adventures: 1) “Sailing to the Future,” in which—together with three other incarnations of the Eternal Champion—battles a pair of brother-and sister sorcerers bent on destroying the worlds, 2) “Sailing to the Present,” in which he and his companion Count Smiorgan Baldhead find themselves entangled in the obsession of Saxif D’an, a legendary Melnibonean sorcerer compelled to reenact his tale of ancient passion on a small imaginary isle, and 3) “Sailing into the Past,” in which he travels with the amiable explorer Duke Avan Astran to the ruined city of R’lin K’ren A’a—fabled origin of the Melbonean race—to retrieve the jewels known as the Jade Man’s Eyes.
4.0 stars. Aaaaaaaaahhhh!!!.....A wonderful and deeply satisfying dose of that lush, rich Moorcockian prose is delivered directly into the fanboy-center of the brain in this second injection of the Elric of Melnibone series. In this treatment we are introduced to the mythos of the “Eternal Champion” as Elric hooks up with 3 of the EC’s other primary avatars: Corum Jhaelen Irsei, Dorian Hawkmoon and Erekose. The four component badasses agree to undertake a mission to unleash a torrent of Grade A
It is a truly memorable moment in the Eternal Champion mythos and is sure to cure any sword and sorcery jones.
In addition to the above, this installment also provides some fascinating details on the early history of Elric’s people, the Melniboneans, and provides insight into the complex and evolving relationship/dependence/animosity (i.e...uh...reladependosity?...) between Elric and his semi-sentient sword “Stormbringer.” Finally, we are also introduced to Smiorgan Baldhead, a great supporting character with a truly, TRULY unfortunate name.
The real joyness in this story is the mythos of the Eternal Champion and the descriptive, evocative writing of Moorcock.
So magic is largely symbolic, because it is made up of ideas, of the meanings that we create to make sense of the world around us.Thus, anyone who has studied the history of magic, from epic poems, myths, theology, and early sciences--like astrology and alchemy--can see that magic shifts and changes with time to match the changes in how people think.
But until reading Moorcock, I had not considered that since magic is built from the geography of the human mind, it could be used to look forward as well as back through time.A fantasy author who seeks to capture the feel of the past must research, and must make sure the psychology of his characters and his magic give the reader insight into a different place and time.
In the opening novel of the series there were just some subtle hints and intimations of the bigger picture, but with the opening salvo (novella) of the second one, we are plunged right in the middle of this dialectic multiverse: Sailing into the Future  has Elric on the run from his first attempt at being a simple sellsword, chased by his would-be employers to a desolate shore, with only his soul-stealing broadsword and his gigantic melancholy for companionship: And now, as he stood beside a bleak sea feeling trapped and already defeated, he knew himself to be alone in a malevolent universe, bereft of friends and purpose, a useless, sickly anachronism, a fool brought low by his own insufficiencies of character, by his profound inability to believe wholly in the rightness or wrongness of anything at all.
Absolutely amazing.No amount of words can explain just how great these two books are for either the world of Fantasy or of even regular Literature.
How else can such a tiny tome as either of these books convey a vast multiverse, planes-walking as we D&D lovers like to call it, full of destiny, time travel, reincarnation, grand multiverse'scapes of conflict between Order and Chaos, cities with jewels, or boats with blind captains filled with alternate-reality versions of your own badass self?And it's not only effortlessly pulled off, it's a grand adventure that actually places me fully in the mindset of AWE.
Elric is a bit more mature and worldly in book 2 as he sails around getting into various scraps with sorcerers and gods. Some people might find Elric stories a bit slow, but I like how it stops to ponder things such as morality, law, and chaos from time to time. Also, Stormbringer is starting to exercise a bit more control over Elric, although the pivotal moment in his life has yet to happen (maybe in volume 3? The last time I read these was 20 years ago and it was a combined edition).
When I read this book I realized how it is refreshingly different from the majority of modern fantasy with its grittiness and minimal or even non-existing magic.
If fact, some of the modern fantasy works can be considered historical fiction after some trivial changes, like renaming of the places, cities, nations, etc.
Do you want an interesting hero alien enough yet still retaining enough humanity for you to be able to connect to him?
It is also interesting that each book is less than 200 pages - in the modern fantasy I consider a book having about 350 pages to be very short.
Terrific book. In only 160 pages, Michael Moorcock can create complex worlds and memorable characters. On to Book 3 in the series.
I'm now a little clearer why I class Moorcock as a guilty pleasure...
On several occasions I've ranted about ridiculously elongated and unpronounceable N'ames (yes and with apostrophes) in SF books (planets, people, procedure...
It irritates the crap out of me to be honest, but for some reason I am able to forgive Moorcock of this.Having said that, this is the third Elric book in a row and which was preceded by four Corums.
I have another two Elrics to go and that will be enough for the time being.It's Moorcock FFS, if you like him, read it.
This series was recommended to me by a friend. After this second book I can honestly say I'm not becoming a diehard fan of Moorcock. He jumps around too much for my tastes. I'd rather he stick to one of his subplots, which have great potential, and really develop that instead of constantly offshoot. I'll read book three because I feel like I'm vested now. Summer Fantasy Fest read #13
Nezgodno je po prvi put čitati Murkoka u ovim godinama i ove godine, jer sve je već toliko puta preuzeto pa izmenjeno manje ili više, popravljeno ili pokvareno, da imam osećaj da čitam nešto jako derivativno. A u stvari je samo mnogo uticajno, a pri tome ne baš remek-delo. Tako da ću sada verovatno prestati sa Sagom o Elriku, nekako osećam da mu činim nepravdu.
He hopes to become a more worthy emperor and, perhaps, to discover why his own race has lost what he calls its “humanity.” For his ancestors are said to have been noble people, but that nobility has been lost and modern Melnibonéans are greedy, selfish, and decadent, lording it over the humans they rule.At the beginning of Sailor on the Seas of Fate, Elric has just escaped prison and is being pursued by his captors.
Or is he more concerned with feeling good about himself by satisfying his own self-concept of nobility?I listened to Audio Realms’ production of Sailor on the Seas of Fate which is beautifully narrated by Jeff West and introduced by Michael Moorcock’s dreamy and languorous voice.
These later novels, while not always as strong as the original, deserve notice and frequently praise.Some writers establish the foundation of a series and then, as is too often the case, merely dole out a carbon copy, with each succeeding sequel the copy gets weaker and less original, growing stale and unappealing, even perhaps diminishing the quality of the start by going too many times back to the well.Others - intrepid, creative and innovative – go in a different direction and try to outdo themselves, attempt and succeed at making a greater contribution and building a stronger storyline than was achieved in the setting.
These are rare gems and deserve commendation.Such is the case with Michael Moorcock’s brilliant, dark and foreboding, second Elric novel Sailor on the Seas of Fate.
I am under the impression that  The Sailor on the Seas of Fate is a composition of short stories initially published as standalone stories and it shows.
The  The Sailor on the Seas of Fate feels disjointed, its structure forced.
The book is divided into three parts (Sailing to the Past, Sailing to the Present and Sailing to the Future), which constitute three loosely connected stories from Elric’s life, each with a very different feel to it.
My favorite part was ‘Sailing to the Future’ and my least favorite was ‘Sailing to the Past’.This is a fantasy novel originally published in the seventies so it doesn’t follow the norm of modern High Fantasy books.
I looked over some of the reviews and was surprised at the number of negative attitudes toward the Eleric books. To me these (and most of the other Eternal Champion series) hold a special place in the "annals" of Epic fantasy. I reviewed the Omnibus edition of these books but my first experince was with the paperback single editions.In this volume several "incarnations" of the Champion meet and the book can actually be seen to have several places in the Eternal Champion Multiverse as the histories of each hero brings them to this point in their respective histories.
"Death is the promise we're all born with, sir." I think I might not have read the most depressing book in the world. Yet, I feel gloomy when the start of the book is like this - "It was as if the man stood in a vast cavern whose walls and roof were comprised of gloomy, unstable colors which would occasionally break and admit rays of light from the moon." However, the feeling which I had felt while reading the book was like -For the book one of this novel, I could not fathom what is truth and w
I think I might not have read the most depressing book in the world.
Yet, I feel gloomy when the start of the book is like this -
Maah Maan Elric is already fucked up -
Listen up!)Writing about the world, the paradox is the order of the day -
"Being an imperfect creature in an imperfect world he would always know paradox.
And that was why in paradox there was always a kind of truth.
"Man may trust man, Prince Elric, but perhaps we'll never have a truly sane world until men learn to trust mankind.
There is a very obscure reference to a dream in this book which was the starting point that Moorcock may very well have used to spin off Elric At The End of Time - which incidentally connects him with still another prominent character in Moorcock's world, that being Jerry Cornelius.
Interactions here also figure in again in The Vanishing Tower.You feel like you might be getting some backstory on Arioch's earlier comings and goings in this book too, but overall it really has this standalone feel to it to the point where you could technically skip it and not lose your place in the main saga.
Inconsistencies and Moorcock overextending his writing skills got me thinking about dismissing this cycle.
Luckily, the book was rescued in the last third when it became obvious why this cycle had such an impact on the fantasy genre.Inconsistencies: Elric just escaped from prison.
While I can accept the various improbable encounters with ships as a sign of a higher fate, I have difficulties with the demonstrated sloppiness.Overextending writing skills: The first part (future) is the culprit.
Elric meets the other eternal heroes.
Memorable is the third part (past), where Elric meets Melniboné's past.
Elric still wants to break free but fate is again stronger, dictating his adventures.
But more often than not he is swept along by fate and what he finds out about himself is not to his liking.
But ever onwards is he drawn by an insatiable restlessness.In one of the stories herein is Elric's first occasion (perhaps) to meet other manifestations of the 'Eternal Champion'.
He teams up with Corum, Erekose and Hawkmoon, all of whom feature in other series Moorcock wrote.
What is interesting here is the way he ties these stories together and how they meet each other different points in their timeline, out of sequence with each other.
Corum remembers meeting Elric before but Elric has no memory of it.
The third volume in the Elric saga. An very good example of swords-and-sorcery with an ironic twist. For a more detailed presentation, please visit my blog: http://tesatorul.blogspot.ro/2008/11/....
"Man may trust man, Prince Elric, but perhaps we’ll never have a truly sane world until men learn to trust mankind. That would mean the death of magic, I think"
Book two jumps into the deeper waters of Moorcock’s multiverse of the Eternal Champion.
Seas of Fate is actually a collection of three connected short stories.
Two of these I have encountered under different names and possibly edited versions of.
Book 1: Sailing into the Future dives the deepest into the EC waters.
The last book “Sailing into the Past” I know I have encountered as a short story in Lin Carter’s Flashing Swords!
anthology, book 2 I believe.
Great read that I enjoyed more than Elric of Melinbone.EDIT: I dunno.
This is one of those books.
Je n’ai pas voulu donner mon avis sur le premier tome qui m’a réellement surpris, mais maintenant avec ce second somptueux récit, je pense avoir déniché une fantaisie des plus dignes qui soit.Eleric roi d’un empire au destin particulier, qui traine derrière lui des traditions cyniques et cruelles, avec le savoir qu’il a amassé durant sa jeunesse grâce à ses lectures et qui ont fait de lui un érudit, nous donne la chance d’avoir tout au long du récit droit à des questionnements philosophiques sur les responsabilités qu’incombe le pouvoir sur le libre arbitre sur le sens de la vie et j’en passe, je suis réellement agréablement surpris par cette série.
Elric Explores the World25 April 2013 This is the second of the Elric books, and like the first, is crafted by using a collection of short stories (four I believe). Elric, or at least the early Elric books, because once the Elric saga became a runaway success Moorcock began to simply write, what I consider at least, rubbish simply to capitalise on the fame of his anti-hero. The only problem is that I do not believe (and I have catalogued most of my books) I still have them, and I suspect that I
Elric is not a story of good versus evil, but a story of survival, and a story of struggle in a morally grey world.
We look back on World War II and see it as a triumph of good over evil, but in reality it is much more dialectical in nature.
The dialectical nature of World War II is not that freedom triumphed over oppression, but rather that two sides merged and became one.
The same goes for Japan: it was not a case of the triumph of good over evil, but a dialectical shift which turned Japan into the nation that we see it today.
Obstinado em conhecer os Reinos Jovens, livres do domínio de Melniboné, para perceber a razão do declínio da sua nação e impedir a sua queda, Elric deixa a terra natal e lança-se numa aventura sem igual.Se A Fortaleza da Pérola levou Elric pelo mundo dos sonhos, Os Mares do Destino convida-o a enlear-se numa viagem entre mundos e tempos, de uma forma mais bem conseguida do que eu augurava.
And this boat travels the seas between all times and universes!
Ah Elric, here is your ticket to adventure!There were many things I loved about this book, but to describe too much would be to give away important plot parts, but suffice to say there were many wierd things in many stranges places and it was all very exciting and fun :)I am still dying to find out what happened to Melnibone in all the time Elric was away, cos he went and left his traitorous cousin on the throne, I guess that'll make in interesting 3rd book.See my other reviews of the Elric series:← #1 Elric of Melniboné | #3 The Weird of the White Wolf →
So, in exasperation, I decided to try "one from the vaults", and landed on Elric!It's been thirty-odd years since I last read this one, and I'm pleased to say that it didn't disappoint.
A fanboy-pleasing Eternal Champion crossover to start off with; to follow, an untypical "damsel in distress" tale, mixed with a multiversal romp with twin extra-dimensional sorcerers; rounded off with an Indiana Jonesesque trek through hostile jungles to (ostensibly) find the treasure of a long-lost city out of Melnibonéan legend.
Oh, and a good deal of Stormbringer soul-stealing, too!After which, I'm still rather unsettled, so I think I'll try another Elric before applying myself elsewhere.
Navighiamo sui mari del fato...Cosa ci aspetterà domani?
La lettura de "sui mari del fato" riconferma le ottime impressioni avute nel primo volume.Elric incomincia ad assumere i tratti dell'antieroe : onorevole e mosso da dubbi esistenziali, ma pronto ad effettuare azioni disdicevoli pur di raggiungere l'obiettivo prefissatosi.
La struttura del romanzo verte su 3 atti, i quali risultano autonomi l'uno dall'altro.Tale caratteristica contribuisce in positivo nella ricerca di un'atmosfera straniante e onirica, ma forse il lettore più pretenzioso potrebbe vederci uno "sfilacciamento" della trama.Degni di menzione gli antagonisti Agak e Gagak, senza ovviamente dimenticare l'ottima parte finale con la città-isola in mezzo ai due fiumi.L'opera di Moorcock, non esente da difetti - ambiguità di certi passaggi, personaggi impalpabili, eccessiva carne al fuoco -, ha comunque il merito di essere una lettura unica nel panorama fantasy.
Tercer título de la saga de Elric de Melniboné, publicado por primera vez en 1976.
Dividido en tres libros, narra tres aventuras en las que Elric navega por distintos barcos, continuando su aventura tras dejar atrás la Isla del Dragón.En el primer libro, "Navegando hacia el futuro", Elric embarca en la Nave Oscura, un barco que siempre navega entre bancos de niebla, como si fuera éste quien la genere a su paso.
Durante el viaje conoce a grandes guerreros de otros reinos y mundos que, pronto descubre, estaban esperándole.
El Capitán de la nave les informa sobre el lugar de destino del barco, una isla en la que tendrán que enfrentarse a dos brujos de gran poder.Lee reseña completa
