https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4502877-midnight-sun
Project Hindsight is melting brain cells.Manic Depressed, murderous vamp with feelings:Like I mentioned earlier, Edward definitely suffers from manic depression.
You know who Edward reminds me of best in the beginning of Midnight Sun?
LOL.He creeped, He perved, He stalked:The creepiest thing, yet hilarious to me, about Midnight Sun is when Edward watches Bella sleep.
I just love it how Edward knows she has got to be crazy, but still wants to be with her.
*shrugs* I really don't know what goes on inside the head of Edward.
DEAR.
SWEET.
. .I don't even know, honestly.
After reading Twilight I could kinda see how Edward the sparklepire could be appealing to teenage girls in his prissy diamond way, but after I read this?
This pretty much reads as the Future Abusive Boyfriends of America Handbook.
Oil her window so you can sneak into her room at night without her permission!
Force her to spend time with only you, isolating her from friends and family!
I was so creeped out.
I may have had to boil myself before being able to continue on in life and not feel dirty.
If only..... she would complete this....If only..... all the books would be composed from his point of view....If only..... all men would adore their woman as much as Edward adores Bella....Loved it!
This is a yet-to-be-completed partial draft of a novel portraying Twilight from Edward's perspective.
I have read (more like devoured) the 264 pages that Stephenie Meyer posted on her website.
It would be really disappointing if Edward's story ended where it does.
Stephenie is the only person in the universe who can guide us on this journey into the depths of Edward, and I sincerely hope she continues to write this story, and not let her faith in humanity be ruined by a few shameless and untrustworthy people.
I am one of the rabid fans who couldn't resist reading this partial draft of Midnight Sun even though Stephenie Meyer would have preferred we not.
I am being totally honest when I say that I loved this partial draft as much, if not more, than Twilight.
But, enter Bella Swan who, without trying, awakened his 'shut down' heart and gave them both something to live for.In Midnight Sun we see just how tormented Edward is, how torn between doing what is (in his mind) best for Bella, and what he so desperately wants....
that once in an 'existence' love...
We do get a little more information on the Cullens, but any character development (Rosalie especially) that may have happened in the first four books is forgotten in Midnight Sun. More evidence of Meyer's sloppiness as a writer.
I find it shallow and trite and a negative message to the young women and girls who read the books, along with the other bullshit about turning your free will over to a controlling, abusive man-beast and portraying that as romantic because he's rich and pretty.
I typically stay as far away from romance novels as I can but I got "bitten" (okay ...
I started reading them because I needed a book-fix after the last Harry Potter book (may the Harry Potter series rest in peace).
I read the last book and started getting geared up for the movie.
A friend at work told me about the partially completed draft of "Midnight Sun" being leaked so I went to Meyer's website to see what happened.
Meyer decided that, for now and indefinitely, she is so upset about the leak that she can't write any more in the book.
But apparently Meyer thinks it's perfectly normal and acceptable for teenage boys to stalk young girls and watch them while they sleep.The only good thing I have to say about Edward is that at least in this one I can better see the struggle and temptation he has about killing/eating Bella (once again if treated as creepy and weird as it should be I wouldn't have a problem with it) as opposed to Twilight where there was barely any tension at all.Also, about not finishing it just because you are so "upset and depressed" about it being leaked online?
Can't get enough of Edward's hissy, snarly, growly velvet honey voice? Bella's "selflessness"? The thirst, the infernal burning thirst? Multi/one-dimensional characterizations (Esme's tenderness, Rosalie's vanity, and even dear old Edward--who graduates in this draft from paper to origami but still retains his (delightfully) tiresome diet-Byron shtick)? Wonder what that waitress was really thinking when she delivered those mushroom raviolis?Boy, do I have a book for you.
For my money, this book has the potential to be the rock solid best of the series.A lot of Rob Pattinson's lovely portrayal of Edward might be attributable to his having read it beforehand, and I think it does a good job of illustrating some of the things I've been saying in defense of the things about Edward that other feminists find creepy at best...The real problem they're not able to see past is that Edward is not a normal 17 year old boy...
As many others were, I was deeply saddened when the first 12 chapters of Midnight Sun were illegally released on the internet, not only for the atrocity of the situation, but the hurt and depression that must have sweeped over Stephenie Meyer.
When she posted the unfinished manuscipt for the fans, I sat up with my laptop and scrolled the PDF until I finished all 264 pages in one sitting.
After reading Midnight Sun I sat back, realizing I had only scratched the surface of Edward's psyche, and I had fallen in love with him all over again, but as if it were for the first time.
I'm not going to get sucked into any new fiction from her but after several weeks of avoiding this I finally broke down and read the chapters.Reading this did slightly lessen my disdain for Breaking Dawn in that I can see how from Edward's perspective Bella was meant to be a vampire.
I still don't like Breaking Dawn but going back to Twilight before New Moon and Eclipse took the story in a different direction it makes just a hair more sense.
My life was an unending, unchanging midnight.
It must, by necessity, always be midnight for me.
Selfish, I know, but I was so looking forward to having a nice hardbound copy of Midnight Sun to place on my bookshelf beside the other Twilight books.
Now I don't know if that will happen.I told myself I wouldn't read the manuscript, even though it was posted on Stephenie's website.
It was refreshing to read things from Edward's perspective (ahhh, Edward!), and to be privy to his feelings as he realized that he was falling in love with Bella...
I personally believe this book would have been Stephenie Meyer's masterpiece. Edward knows everything so a book from his point of view is just so cool. I read her rough draft on her website in one sitting and kept mumbling, "Please go past the meadow scene, please go past the meadow scene," over and over. Of course, it stopped just before the meadow scene so I was sad. I really hope she finishes it someday because its amazing.
I was very sad that Stephenie put this on hold indefinitely, but I can understand why she did.
What a violation as an author.I really liked this version.
I think I liked being in Edward's head a whole lot more than being in Bella's.
Plus, you get the added bonus of being in everyone else's head and get to see their true selves.
I personally thought this book had the potential to be the best of the series.
Although I did feel like I was stepping back in time after reading all the other books, it was nice to get a few more details.
once your in edwards mind your in everyones mind!!
I can only imagine the betrayal you must feel, even violation.
Give us a glimpse into the mind of such a "godlike" vampire such as Edward and take it away?
I can only hope that one day, you will change your mind as I imagine you will.
May his untold version of the story eat away at your heartless soul until there is nothing left.
I hope you keep your soul but I can only imagine how much this unfinished work will bother you until the time comes when you will finish it.
Perhaps I should be ashamed of myself for obsessing over Twilight the way I did, but I'm not going to lie about liking it.
Perhaps the series would not appeal to the taste of bourgeois and elitists, who might feel that reading Twilight somehow compromise their immense intellects.I'm not a bourgeois nor an elitist, I'm a simple person who reads simply for pleasure.
I just like what I like.If this one gets published I would definitely buy it.
Though the main reason behind it would be totally pointless you might say.
I just need to see the complete series arrange neatly together on my shelf!
the whole saga should be written from edwards point of view. Edward's mind is engrossing and I can't get enough! i truly hope stephanie meyer completes this book
I wrote one on Twilight and Midnight Sun and the abusive behavor Edward shows.
Or what they would do if they felt intimidated by their boyfriends or undeservant of their love.
I will not lie, I LOVED Twilight.
And then, I found a boy like him.
After a year in a half I finally got myself back and re read Twilight thinking it would leave me in a better mood after the break up and it only made it worse.
Edward shows signs as an abuser and sadly, no girl would know it is unless they experience an abusive relationship.
Why did I give it five stars? Cuz it was funny. Edward is such a misguided little vampire/fairy thing. *chuckles* Although, I nearly gagged several times while he described how "beautiful and self-sacrificing" Bella was. Please. That chick would sell her own mother to the Volturi if it meant she could be with Edward the rest of her life. *shakes head*
This is purely gratuitous but I don't care - I always wanted to know what was going on in Edward's head and knowing how he really felt, and it was great to get his perspective: his reactions, his moodiness, become so understandable.
While this is an unfinished draft - ending at the end of the first day after Bella lets Edward know she knows he's a vampire - I would definitely buy the complete novel if Meyer ever finished and published it, just for my own satisfaction.
It's horrible that someone did that, but it's also petulant and immature to let that spoil everyone else's enjoyment in the series.
I actually liked this better than the other "from Bella's perspective" books. I liked hearing what was going on with Edward and enjoyed his interactions with his family.
If only there were some indication of Edward's perspective in the first book, he might not have seemed like such an unbalanced and stilted lack-wit.Unfortunately, since this is such an exacting re-tread, it also seems to offer very little in terms of intrigue in terms of plot and seems grossly overdue, possibly to the point of irrelevance.
Then in an abrupt about-face, Mrs. Meyers re-writes the entire first book from Edward's perspective in the 5th installment of the series.This simply smacks of stunt-writing in a series that seems to be running out of imagination.
Even though Stephenie didn't want her readers to see this draft, I am glad she made it public so we could really understand Edward better. I LOVED reading it. Even in draft form, and even though you already know what's going to happen, it is captivating. Plus, there are additional scenes you don't get in "Twilight." I sincerely hope she will finish and publish it.
“And, by the way, I adore you.... in frightening, dangerous ways.”  OH MY SWEET LORD, reading Midnight Sun was Nostalgic !! I almost forgot how much I Loved this series! and it is even MORE better with Edward's POV!!  “So, Bella, I was following your scent through the woods after I'd left your room where I was watching you sleep...Yes that would be quite the ice breaker.”   And I ABSOLUTELY loved the witty and sarcastic Edward and his inner conflicts always made me giggle, Poor Vampire he is!!
And I ABSOLUTELY loved the witty and sarcastic Edward and his inner conflicts always made me giggle, Poor Vampire he is!!
But overall i loved every family moment of this book, the bond, the understanding ..
How can a vampire family be so sweet and loving??
Edward and Bella, Oh how much i love this couple!
But, but, but, this book didn't covered what i wanted to read!!
Seriously, i hope one day i can read all the book from Edwards POV!!
But overall what i read was enough for me to love this book!!
Everybody has her/his own imaginative picture of Edward in her/his mind and that’s how it should be.I think that Edward’s POV is so much more interesting than Bella’s and I always loved the few chapters of ‘Midnight Sun’ more than ‘Twilight’ and like many others I hope that one day Stephenie Meyer will listen to her dear mother and finish the book.She would do the fans a big favor!Edward is not perfect, he never has been and never will be.
Even more than usual for a human.I was surprised, watching her stumble through the day-tripping over cracks in the sidewalk, stray books, and, most often, her own feet-that the people I eavesdropped on thought of Bella as clumsy.It was true that she often had trouble staying upright.
What did I learn from Midnight Sun?-Bella is clumsy, weak, fragile and needs to be protected!-Edward goes from seriously wanting to kill Bella and all her classmates to being a crazy stalker-Stalking someone is okay if you're doing it to protect the person you're stalking-Edward falls in love with Bella for almost no reason.
Praying someday the whole book will be released
