https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18243700-the-assassin-s-blade
I loved this! I'll have a review of this on the channel soon. :)
Throne of Glass is a six-book series and as of now (June 2014) there are only 2 books published, she has 4 more books which is a lot of time in the author world coming out and with the potential she's shown so far, I think I need to start packing up on tissues.Speaking of which, Ms. Maas, I have a gift for you:If you want to prepare for this book then read the Survival Guide to Assassin's Blade!Between these novellas and Throne of Glass, I'd say these give Celaena more justice.
These stories changed the way I see Celaena ,answered both little and big questions I had, and ultimately decided whose "team" I'm on...
If you’ve read any of the other books, even just the first, then you know how sassy Celaena is and we get a look into why she is this way.
Favorite Quote: “Go to Hell” Anselchuckled “I’ve been to Hell.” The Assassin and the Underworld- 10/10Celaena is back from the desert and ready distract herself from owning up to her feeling.
The best part is we get so much Sam and Celaena time.
I really enjoyed this! Some stories I liked more than others, but it was nice to see what happened to Celaena leading up to Throne of Glass. I would have liked to have seen more of her when she was younger and training, though.Now, on to rereading Throne of Glass!
i dont want to talk about my feelings right now i need a couple weeks to process this
T_TWell, I guess what my rather deranged mind is trying to tell you, is that I really loved this book!Every single story, every moment that formed Celaena into the person she’s become!!!
;-)I won’t go into detail until I reach my characters section, also known as “The Spoiler Zone”, but for those of you who are afraid to read the entire book because they know what’s going to happen and don’t want to be heartbroken here’s a little tip: (view spoiler)[You can read the first four novellas without regret!
Now  this  is how you write a companion novel.  "You said you didn't care what I thought. Or what I did. Or if I died, if I'm not mistaken.""I lied! And you know I lied, you stupid bastard!"  Ohmygosh. I'm still reeling. The five novellas are so well written and woven together that this almost feels like a book in its own right.Set far before Celaena bacame the King's Assassin, we watch as she fights to the top of the assassin's guild and claim her rightful spot. Along the way, she meets true fr
The Assassin and the Pirate Lord  - Celaena Sardothien and her ever-present companion (Sam) are sent to secure a deal with the Pirate Lord on behalf of their master (Arobynn).
She's about to disobey the ruler of the Assassins for the first (and possibly) last time ever.The Assassin and the Healer - Celaena - bruised and battered due to her fallout with Arobynn - meets a young healer-girl whose family used to be gifted with magic.
That proves nearly impossible, and while she makes a true friend, she also loses a part of herself in the process.The Assassin and the Underworld - Arobynn allows Celaena to return under a few conditions.
So I one-clicked all of them and read them immediately.They only increased my hunger for THRONE OF GLASS.~The Assassin and the Pirate Lord~First, I think it's important to recognize that one of--if not the--main purposes of these novellas is to grow Celaena from an intolerably insolent and arrogant adolescent into a world-wiser (but still cocky) young adult.The #1 complaint about this series is that readers don't like Celaena.Personally, I love her, but I understand why others might not.
I don't know how this book continues to destroy me with every reread.
The way Sarah J Maas fleshed out the characters in this book and their emotions pulled at my insides.
This book sheds a lot more light into her history and how she became the person she is.
There's so much more emotion and vulnerability to her in this book that we don't get to see that often.
I don't know why it destroys my heart, because I'm pretty sure Celaena regrets this in the other books but every time I think about it I want to die, tbh.
First read May 2015Reread August 2016Reread October 2018Still hurts.Check out my vlog for this book! --> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ibg8g...
I can't believe I have had this book forever and just now read it. Such is life I guess. I knew it was going to break my heart and it did, it so much did. But I needed to read the story of Sam. Sam =( ♥
also, the events and characters of each and every one of these stories are mentioned/alluded to throughout the other six books, so this would have been a great foundation with which to start the series.
overall, these short stories were enjoyable and a great addition to a wonderful series!the assassin and the pirate lord - 3.5 stars the assassin and the healer - 3.5 stars the assassin and the desert - 4 stars the assassin and the underworld - 4.5 stars the assassin and the empire - 4.5 stars
This was such a wonderful book. It is 5 prequel novellas, but the novellas read as one story with small gaps between the stories. I loved every second of it and I loved learning more about Celaena!Reread July 11-17, 2015 for #fivefavesI LOVE THIS SO MUCH BUT IT ALSO BREAKS MY HEART BUT I LOVE IT SO. BLESS SJ MAAS BLESS HER FOR THESE AMAZINGLY FLESHED OUT NOVELLAS.
#0.1-#0.5 The Assassin’s Blade ★★★★★#1 Throne of Glass ★★★★☆#2 Crown of Midnight ★★★★★#3 Heir of Fire ★★★★★#4 Queen of Shadows ★★★★★#5 Empire of Storms ★★★★★#6 Tower of Dawn ★★★★★ She was fire, she was darkness, she was dust and blood and shadow. As anyone who knows my taste in books is already aware of, I’m total trash for Sarah’s other series, A Court of Thorns and Roses, and have been for a while, which is why I know it’s kind of surprising to a lot of people (myself included) that it’s taken
That said, I decided that I would make an effort in 2018 to get caught up on the series before the finale this fall, and per Sarah’s own website’s recommendation, I started with this novella bind-up.I was honestly nervous to pick this book up, because I kept thinking, “What if it doesn’t live up to my love for the ACOTAR series?!” Luckily, my concerns seem to be invalid – based on this collection, at least – because losing myself in the word of Celaena and the Assassins was effortless, and made me so eager to move on to Throne of Glass!

I actually enjoyed this more than the first book!
All the novellas flow really well together too (except for The Assassin and the Healer; I feel like that one could have been taken out).
Also it was cool to see Celaena actually BE an assassin (I haven't read anything else past the first book, so I don't know if she does later).I just wish we could have had a scene (probably the first scene) of the VERY beginning, of her as a little girl in Terrasen, right before she ended up mysteriously half dead on that river bank
Rather than tell you how I feel, let me show you how I feel.
Spoilers.Sam. I cannot.
Was this a necessary read for the series?
Yes. Does it make it any easier?
No. For those of you have a REALLY hard time with death in a book..
let me prepare you.
The ONLY way I was able to cope with this book was:1.
Chocolate2.
Tissues3.
Bookmarked moments from book 3 and 4 of TOG in order to go back and read happy moments of sweet, sweet justice.That is all.My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy
“My name is Celaena Sardothien," she whispered, "and I will not be afraid.” NOTE; Review unedited.I have a question to the lovely Sarah J. Maas that i'm sure many fans demand the answer to... Why would you do this to your fans!? Tear their heart out like that?! It ain't fair. I need a super glue to stick it back together now, but even then it will never be the same!This is what sort of state you left me when i finished the awful last chapter and may i add this was quite literally how i looked li
First of all, i was astonished that The Assassin's Blade was actually a bit better from the 1st book in the series Throne of Glass.
Another surprise or discovery whilsts i was reading this book was that i actually started to dislike Celaena, and see a side of her that i was blind to previously.
I must admit i was team Chaol, but now i'm like BITCHES, PLEASE!
“My name is Celaena Sardothien,” she whispered, “and I will not be afraid.” The Assassin's Blade was a book I was nervous to go into. I have heard mixed reviews about The Throne of Glass series, ranging from people loving it to hating it which has resulted in me constantly pushing it back on my TBR. Thankfully, I was pleasantly surprised. I personally really enjoy Sarah J. Mass' writing. It is well done and engaging. Unfortunately, I did see a spoiler which meant that the ending of the last pre
This bind-up features five novellas about Celaena and the events which lead to her being in the salt mines in Throne of Glass.
We follow Sam and Celaena as they make plans behind their Master, The Assassin King's, back.
(hide spoiler)]I also loved the fact that to realise she had feelings for Sam, Celaena had to be taken out of the immediate situation.
The Assassin and The Underworld followed the growing relationship between Celaena and Sam. I enjoyed it thoroughly as the pair continued to bicker and argue, despite the obviousness of their feelings.
I did enjoy this novella despite knowing where the ending was going to lead me.
"My name is Celaena Sardothien and I will not be afraid."Well, that quote just got a whole lot more meaning to it.
I initially checked it out to see Sam since you hear so much about him in later books, but there really wasn't as much about him as I thought there would be.
This book brought SO much insight to Celaena's character overall and I loved all of the stories (despite the sad).
Maybe even before Throne of Glass or Crown of Midnight if you're just starting the series because it really does add a TON of depth to everything.
This is the kind of book that once you've read it, you'll need paper towels, cookies, chocolate and Google Images to find fanart of Celaena and Sam and the cry some more.Oh, this book...
It was amazing!The writing was absolutely stunning and even though it was a collection of novellas, I felt like I was reading a novel, because the stories are chronologically and so beautifully woven together.And it really scares me that Sarah J Maas was able to do this to me in five novellas; I cried...
I cried, and I cried, and I cried.Sam Cortland...
❝She was fire, she was darkness, she was dust and blood and shadow.❞  Of all five novellas I only liked two of them. Overall, I was just kinda bored with the stories. I think I might've just set my expectations a little too high considering how it's Sarah J. Maas and the Throne of Glass series. But to be honest, I'm a bit disappointed.This book is finally when we meet the late Sam Cortland. SJM constantly brings up Sam in every book in the series, but until now I never knew who Sam really was.
likable.In the Throne of Glass series, SJM just sort of sets Sam and Celaena's relationship on a pedestal.
Maybe it's me being heartless but if I didn't actually like them so much, I would probably even say that their relationship happened pretty fast.
Of course my heart still broke for Celaena and Sam but not as much as I thought it would.As for the novellas as a whole, most of them were pretty slow in the beginning and pick up towards the end.
I think I probably would've had a better reading experience with The Assassin's Blade if I actually read it when I was supposed to which was...
I absolutely loved these prequels to the 'Throne of Glass' series.
Taking place during Celaena's years as an elite assassin working for her master, Arobynn, this grouping of prequels sheds a lot of light on the events that molded Celaena into the woman we met in 'Throne of Glass'.
Background information was shared that she'd new light on some of the events in the 'Throne of Glass' books.
I highly recommend this set of prequels if you're a fan of the 'Throne of Glass' series.
We also see the bourgeoning feelings between Celaena and Sam develop D: It seems to me like Arobynn is already behaving a bit shadyThe Assassin and the Healer- 3/5 starsI appreciated this one for the girl power aspect, but it didn't really add anything to Celaena's overall story.
Celaena needs revenge ASAP but we all know how the next story is going to end :(The Assassin and the Empire- 4/5 stars We all knew that this was coming :(Also, I love how all these stories and characters become relevant in Empire of Storms.
I don't even care, I can't stop thinking about this book so I'm bumping my original 4.5 star rating to a 5. Plus it made me cry! I don't think another 2014 book has done that this year. I cannot believe these were written as prequels, they give readers such an enormous breadth of understanding for Celaena's character and history, as well as enormous sympathy for what she's been through, faults and all. And WHY have I never heard how amazing Sam is? <3 (view spoiler)[ Was. :( *sobs* (hide spoi
I don't even care, I can't stop thinking about this book so I'm bumping my original 4.5 star rating to a 5. Plus it made me cry! I don't think another 2014 book has done that this year. I cannot believe these were written as prequels, they give readers such an enormous breadth of understanding for Celaena's character and history, as well as enormous sympathy for what she's been through, faults and all. And WHY have I never heard how amazing Sam is? <3 (view spoiler)[ Was. :( *sobs*  (hide spoiler)]
“She was fire, she was darkness, she was dust and blood and shadow.” (X)I'm not a big fan of the Throne of Glass series, to be honest. The world-building, the narrative and the stories are undeniably terrific except the characters. I couldn't even connect to Celaena Sardothien since the first book, which I read two years ago. Choal and Dorian still couldn't move me, though I was into Chaol while I was reading Crown of Midnight. I ended up feeling the same way, which was boring, by the time I st
I couldn't even connect to Celaena Sardothien since the first book, which I read two years ago.
So this is why the ToG series had been three stars reading until Empire of Storm (You can find my five-star review here)Suffice to say, my feeling towards this book is still like what I have for the first four books of this series.
However, The Assassin's Blade is a perfect prelude for who wants to learn more about the Throne of Glass world and what happened to Calaena before she becomes a champion in book one.
hi just wanted to let ya’ll know that this book crushed what was left of my soul
Some of the stories felt perfectly synced with this world, and others seemed a little pointless and forced.I will break down each short story, with links to their individual reviews on Goodreads.#0.1) The Assassin and the Pirate Lord ★★★This first novella had so much potential.
Maybe we will see Yrene in this series eventually, and then this story will be a lot more meaningful, but as it stands, this story felt the weakest in this bind-up.#0.3) The Assassin and the Desert ★★★★This novella follows Celaena on her punishment mission with the Silent Assassins.
I LOVE THIS DAMN BOOKI'm going to work my way through an entire reread of this series and I'm sooooo excited! I honestly forgot how much I love this book.
I love this series so much it kills me. Celaena+Sam=ugly crying
