https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32107.Sprig_Muslin
Sir Gareth Ludlow has decided he’ll never fall in love again (his fiancée died in an accident many years ago), so he decides to propose to Hester, an older lady (well, she’s 29) who he thinks is kind and will be grateful to get away from her unreasonably demanding family.
Matters get even more complicated when, on the way to Hester’s home to propose, Gareth picks up Amanda, a willful, lovely 16 year old runaway.
But Amanda won't tell Gareth her full name, assuming - rightly - that he just wants to haul her back to her home with her grandfather.
His captive in spring muslin has more than her rapturous good looks and bandboxes to aid her - she is also possessed of a runaway imagination...A typically enthralling historical novel, Sprig Muslin shows the skill which has kept Georgette Heyer a huge and devoted readership to this day.My Review: I confess it true: I am such a noddycock that this is the first of the estimable Miss Heyer's trashy novels that I e'er did peruse.
She was, in short, JRR Tolkien but female (and fun to read).You won't spot historical inaccuracies in her books.
What you will discover in Sprig Muslin is a simple, direct and graceful writing; Georgette Heyer once more tells a hilarious story that is a rare treat and a pleasure to read. Perfect for a rainy Sunday afternoon, recommended.
I loved that (view spoiler)[ secondary female romantic lead & the main male romance lead were both physically attractive characters who ended up with less attractive partners.
(hide spoiler)]I loved Hester's sweetly gentle character & I think the handsome & kind Sir Gareth Ludlow may be one of my favourite GH heroes (yes, I know I have quite a few)There are some funny scenes & the last chapters in that tiny village are delightful.Why I've had to knock half a star off?
(hide spoiler)] &, not uncommon in GH romances, the hero & heroine don't spend that much time together.But this book is still nearly impossible to put down.
Written July 4, 20154 1/2 Stars - Charming well-made oldie (1956). So much fun and so very well told and narratedSprig Muslin is an "Regency" set in England 1813 written already 1956 by a legend romance author, Georgette Heyer (1902-1974).          Awwww this was....jolly good!This was just my second novel by, for me, a brilliant classic British writer. I has always been a fan by funny and witty (steam-free) romantic oldies (by Austen for example). Ms Heyer gives me exactly that feeling even if
So much fun and so very well told and narratedSprig Muslin is an "Regency" set in England 1813 written already 1956 by a legend romance author, Georgette Heyer (1902-1974).
~ Nearly four stars for a sweet enjoying old classic romance and yet one more star for this audiobook.
Yes, this audio-edition is simply FANTASTIC for all lovers, like me, of classic well written and well narrated historical romances.
Sian Phillips does it faultlessly and Georgette Heyer knew how to make a good hilarious fun tale.
Sincerely recommended!I LIKE - very much an amusing fun audiobook story
But Gareth doesn't account for the fact that spinster Hester has nursed a secret, and won't settle for anything less then love, even if it means turning down one of the most eligible members of the ton, and the love of her life.Had Georgette Heyer delivered a tale of how Gareth woos, loses, and eventually wins Hester's heart, I know I would have given this story 4 or 5 stars.
Problem is, Amanda refuses to reveal who she is and where she came from.And so, for over 150 pages, the reader is treated not to a story about Gareth and Hester, but to a romp and farce about the exploits of Amanda and all the mayhem and trouble she continually gets herself and Sir Gareth into.
Once again I am dipping into my slightly tattered collection of Georgette Heyer romances for a quick reread of an old favourite.
This time it is Sprig Muslin which contains one of Heyer's best leading men, Sir Gareth Ludlow.
Who wouldn't want to take this man home?
He is good looking, charming, well dressed, intelligent, has a great sense of humour, loves children and did I mention he is very, very rich!Characterisation was one of Heyer's greatest skills and she has written some of the best.
She also managed to make all her romances funny, charming and occasionally tear jerking (happy tears usually).
A comedic romance set in Regency England that follows the adventures of a mischievous young girl who finds herself in the craziest of situations. I loved the wit that Heyer infuses into her writing and the light hearted atmosphere that she created reminded me of "The Importance of Being Ernest."
ETA commute listen with my daughter 12/2018:Still very fine and I loved the shared laughter as Cordy experienced Lady Hester's very sly wit.
She really hated Amanda, though, and struggled with her willful flights.This remains one of my very favorite Georgette Heyer romances.
Sir Gareth is such a delight as he struggles with Amanda's exploits.
Her sly humor buried under her meek exterior has some truly fine moments even early on, before we've gotten to know how intolerable her situation really is—and how much worse off she would be married to the man she loves if he doesn't also love her (even if that man is Sir Gareth).
I was not as keen on this one from Georgette Heyer's. I soon got tired of Amanda's facetiousness and immature behaviour. However, the last third of the book was very entertaining and this is why I gave it four stars nonetheless.
Yet, in Heyer's The Corinthian for example, which has a similar setting (Regency Corinthian aged 35 needs to marry and have an heir, etc..) Sir Richard and Pen do end up together, and the reader is made to believe that it is a good match!
Granted, Sir Gareth and Sir Richard might have been very similar, but I must say that Pen was a bit less of a goose than Amanda, even though they were both running away and both wanted to have silly romantic adventures.Instead, Sir Gareth comes to love Lady Hester, who was such an amazing woman that it is too bad she didn't have a bigger role in the story.
The story opens with him declaring to his sister his intention of marrying a longtime acquaintance or friend, Lady Hester Theale, a woman essentially on the shelf, the unappreciated daughter of an impoverished peer.
Meanwhile, Lady Hester’s ne’er-do-well uncle makes off with Amanda, with all the evil intentions you might imagine, and Sir Gareth goes off in pursuit.
Amanda leads Sir Gareth a merry dance, which ends up in some serious trouble.
It’s not as funny as some of her climaxes (I love the one in Devil’s Cub and the one in Sylvester more), but it makes a nice, tidy bow to tie the story up in.Sir Gareth himself is an interesting hybrid character.
Sprig Muslin was just OK most of the way through. I can see why this is one of the more obscure Heyer Regencies. The hero and heroine are apart for most of the time, the hero off chasing after a capricious (and annoying) girl, trying to keep her out of trouble. That got a bit old, even though there were entertaining parts of it. I liked it better once the heroine entered the picture again, with not much left in the book. The relationship didn't get much development time!
This is the third of Heyer's books with the core premise of gentleman coming across beautiful girl, 
Amanda is a live-wire--young, determined, pretty and scandalously unattended because she’s run away from her doting grandfather hoping to marry her soldier boyfriend.
Handsome but with a tragic love history, Sir Gareth runs into Amanda as he is on his way to propose to his old friend Hester, an “on the shelf” woman in her late 20’s, who’s taken advantage of by her family.
Even though her current living situation is difficult she is not willing to settle for the companionable marriage Gareth is offering, but being a friend she does try to help him with Amanda, who she has great sympathy for.
I loved Sprig Muslin.
It's ridiculous fluff and therefore ridiculously entertaining, and I love the characters and the way everything turns out.
The whole tangle of misunderstandings didn't even drive me nuts with vicarious embarrassment, in this case -- it's so deftly handled that it remains funny and light.I prefer The Talisman Ring's plot by a good way, but Heyer's skill as a writer got me equally twisted up in this story.
The romances really are a good bit better than the mysteries, because she evokes the setting so wonderfully.
Very enjoyable last third.STORY BRIEF:17 year old Amanda runs away from home because her grandfather won’t let her marry Neil.
Throughout the story Amanda’s lies create predicaments for everyone she interacts with.Gary’s fiancé died seven years earlier, and he believes he will never love again.
I knew the feeling when I read two other reviewers who said they wanted “to smack Amanda right in the mouth.” I did not enjoy her lies.
She didn’t want his help, and she caused problems for him.
They had a friendly and caring relationship, and then all of a sudden he says I love you will you marry me.
Every time I review a Heyer novel I feel like I ought to start with a disclaimer: I have long since given up any pretension of reading her novels with any sense of objectivity.
I love her characters.
The story line follows a fairy standard and oft done Heyer trope - noble gentleman finds a willful, wayward young lady and gets dragged along with her dramatics.
(hide spoiler)]For three, the host of other characters, particularly the various innkeeper's wives, who colored the text.But fourth and most unexpectedly, I fell for the heroine, Hester.
Usually her type of Heyer heroine annoy me.
I love it.
Why then, does she react to news of the impending proposal like this?‘The Lady Hester, once her maid was dismissed, the candles blown out, and the curtains drawn round the bed, buried her face in the pillow and cried herself quietly to sleep.’Not knowing he faces a refusal, Sir Gareth travels to Lady Hester’s home.
But Amanda is determined not to be caught, and she leads Sir Gareth on an adventure which includes telling many lies and having to save Amanda from an aging roué, besotted farmer and a young knight in shining armour and even ends up involving Lady Hester in the ensuing tangle.Georgette Heyer is known as the queen of Regency romances and rightly so, unlike many authors in the genre there is nothing in her writing that jumps out at the average reader as being erroneous or too modern.
He travels to her family home in the country to propose to her, but on the way, while stopping at a village inn for a repast, he meets Amanda.And the story that started as an uninspiring account of a loveless match morphs into a wild cross-country romp with farcical inclinations.
Although Amanda first appears in the book about page 50, this enterprising damsel of seventeen ruthlessly steals the show from Gareth, Hester, and the rest of their drab, middle-aged bunch.
Unable to abandon the girl to her fate, Gareth relentlessly gallops after her, but Amanda proves to be resourceful.
I reacquainted with bits that felt the same and then other parts that I appreciated differently this go-around.The story itself dives into the madcap Regency Romp because the mover and shaker at the center of it is a spoiled, naive, willful girl whose only consideration is her end-goal.
When he travels up to her family estate to pop the question, he encounters minx Amanda the runaway who has a plan to get her soldier and his chivalry won't allow him to turn his back knowing she can and will find all sorts of mischief and maybe danger.Hester has determined to refuse Garreth.
This is not one of the Georgette Heyer novels which I re-discover on a regular basis.
Listening to the novel on audiobook over the past couple of days, I wondered why I've not appreciated it more.
The last third of the novel is more in the nature of a farce: it is genuinely funny and I found myself laughing out loud quite a lot.
She's not my favourite narrator of Heyer novels, and while she's not bad, her narration is not a reason to seek out the audiobook rather than read the text.
I loved it!
There are lots of reviews already on GR for this novel so I won't try to equal those.
I'll just say the character Sir Gareth Ludlow was an ideal hero for the story.
Hester I liked very much.
In between it's all about Amanda, the runaway, and I must admit her tantrums and tears do get a bit wearisome at times.
I laughed out loud many times and this is what I love about Heyer's novels.A good sound read I'd call it and of course Heyer fans will lap it up.
So sweet...the love story between Lady Hester and Sir Gareth (can it be called love story? I wonder). Entertaining but it's Georgette Heyer, need i say more? Just very annoyed with Amanda and her escapades. This is proof enough, in the hands of a master, a love story don't need to have all those sexual scene to be felt. And the ending...very sweet indeed!
The romance between Sir Gareth and Hester is NON-EXISTENT, and a greater ninny than Hester has never existed!The way Heyer wrote Hester's situation, it really made no sense for her to reject Sir Gareth's proposal the first time around.
Instead of spending the WHOLE BOOK on an unrelated character's exploits, the idiotic Amanda.On THAT subject, there really was no good reason for Sir Gareth to do any of the things he did for her, and a more POINTLESS subplot (more like main plot) I cannot imagine!Do not recommend!
Sir Gareth Ludlow is on his way to propose to Lady Hester Theale, a spinster of nearly thirty.
Hester is of the opinion that Gareth's first fiance was a little too headstrong and spoiled for him and he deserves someone better.
Along the way, Sir Gareth discovers a teenage runaway, Amanda "Smith," a spoiled, headstrong girl who gets herself into one major scrape after another.
There, Hester's family forms the most erroneous opinions of both Garry and Amanda, causing even more commotion, leading Gary on a wild goose chase.
(view spoiler)[If I had my way, Amanda would have her Season under the sponsorship of Lady Hester.
My 25th Georgette HeyerSir Gareth decides for practical reasons to marry an old friend, Hester, who is unfashionable and plain, on the shelf at the age of 29.
Gareth brings her to Hester which only brings more problems.This was a delightful adventure with many hijinks, two very different in temper heroines united by an appreciation for courage and mischief, and a seemingly never-ending chase Gareth is forced to undertake.
This book and the The Corinthian share many things in common, but what I enjoyed most is the fact that old friends deepened their relationship and discovered love after all was thought over.
As always, with Georgette Heyer, Sprig Muslin is well written, witty and charming.This book isn't one of my favourites, and I probably did it a disservice reading it as soon as I'd finished The Corinthinan.Both books are a little similar in that both heroines are young runaways. But whereas I loved all the characters in the Corinthian, that wasn't so with Sprig Muslin. In fact I found Amanda tedious and irritating.Nevertheless, it was still a good read for those who love Regency England.
I love Georgette Heyer! Her sentences flow so beautifully--I just savor them as I read. She ties her plots up just as beautifully and with so much humor. I never get tired of reading her books! After rereading one or more of them, I find that some of the Regency vernacular starts creeping into my speech, causing people to give me odd looks. I don't care--if they don't understand what I mean it is their own fault for not reading Georgette Heyer!
I sincerely hated everything about this book, the furiously annoying narrator included. Is this trying to be a Jane Austen book? If so, that's just shameful.
