https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19581.Ghost_Story
It would be understandable if the novel featured only one protagonist who witnessed these events and who would be afraid to entrust his story to others (in fear of being considered insane) - but Ghost Story features a group of men who believe each other, and do nothing.The theme of a town besieged by malevolent forces or beings has been done previously, most notably by Peter Straub's fellow writer and friend Stephen King in Salem's Lot. Straub acknowledges the influcence: "I wanted to work on a large canvas.


Stephen King himself lists it as one of the best horror novels of the 20th century (refer Danse Macabre).I will not go into plot details at this stage, since these can be had by reading the book synopsis.
Instead, in general terms, I'll try and explain just why this book should be on the reading list of any self respecting horror fan.First of all, this is not a novel that offers up cheap thrills and quick scares.
I read the two novels almost back to back and will be hard pressed to pick a personal favourite, although the “antagonist” in Straub’s book is much more complicated.
BAIT AND SWITCH.  "Peter Straub's classic bestseller is a work of "superb horror" (The Washington Post Book World) that, like any good ghost story, stands the test of time -- and conjures our darkest fears and nightmares." Oh, this book was conjuring my worst fears alright... Just not in the way that was probably intended. I'm quitting you, book. You know why? Because you're fucking boring. Because I dread picking you back up. Because you're not in the least bit scary to me, if you don't count t
"Peter Straub's classic bestseller is a work of "superb horror" (The Washington Post Book World) that, like any good ghost story, stands the test of time -- and conjures our darkest fears and nightmares."
Oh, this book was conjuring my worst fears alright...
Because you're not in the least bit scary to me, if you don't count the horror and dread I have of actually contemplating trudging along to the finish line with you.
I slogged along to almost the halfway point, through weirdness and references-I-feel-like-I-should-know-but-don't-because-they-haven't-been-explained-yet and tedious-tedious-irrelevant-detail and 260+ pages of nothing-has-actually-happenened-yet-except-for-some-boring-old-farts-dying...OH-THE-HORROR!
The only thing it's given me back was confirmation that Straub's books just aren't for me.
This copy of "Ghost Story" is signed by Peter Straub.
First and foremost, I would like to thank Jessica (Hopelessly Devoted Bibliophile) for this awesome addition to my collection.  Back in 1995, my family and my fifteen-year-old self moved from California to Alabama. The week we arrived in Alabama (Mobile area) Hurricane Opal decided to make landfall. Most of our stuff was still on the back of my brother-in-law's flatbed trailer. The most important items lost (for me, at least) was my mother's book collection. Whilst in California, Mom called her
These books were gifts from friends, family, and co-workers, but mostly they came from one person in particular—my mother's best friend Andrita.
22 books survived, but Ghost Story was not one of them.
History Lesson of the Day. After receiving Jessica's gift, I decided to reread Ghost Story so that I might give it a proper review.
Ghost Story is one of the greatest literary horror novels ever written.
In summation: Ghost Story is a novel better read if you know nothing about it.
They call themselves “The Chowder Society”, apparently there is some kind of therapeutic value for them in telling these stories; there has been an undertone of fear in this little club since one of their members died under mysterious circumstances at a party while in the company of an actress who disappeared.The next part of the book tells the story of Donald Wanderley, the child kidnapper from the prologue.
He is a nephew of the dead club member of the Chowder Society and an author of a horror novel.After publication of his book he took a temporary job teaching at Berkeley, there he meets and falls madly in love with a mysterious beautiful girl.
This is not because I am brave, which I am certainly not, or because I am idiot, which is debatable; rather, my limited understanding of probabilities allows me to rest assured that I am far likelier to die in a car crash because I am texting, than I am to plummet earthward in a Boeing 747, and that the mounting nights of pizza and hard drinking are more lethal to my person than a sociopathic killer just escaped from the county asylum on a dark and stormy night.The simple fact is that for most of us, all the terrorists and all the murderers and all the faultily-constructed planes in all the world are not nearly as likely to hurt us than uncontrolled cell growth within our own bodies.
Although GRs marks this as my second read, it's actually my third. (I read this one as a teenager for the first time). One of Straub's best books, imho. Still, this is not one that promises instant gratification, or perfect closure. It's a multi-layerd novel, that leaves a lot to the imagination of the reader. Personally, I enjoy a bit of ambiguity in my horror--often what one can imagine is even more terrifying that what is put down on paper.A "classic" read in every sense of the word.Recommended to fans of horror, everywhere!
This is actually one of the "scariest" books I've read so far as atmosphere and actual emotional scare goes.The villains of the piece are while not exactly "new" used in a different way than you'll see elsewhere.
(view spoiler)[ The novel works it's way to the general idea that there is another "race" or "species" of beings that have lived along side humans forever.
The thing is that they like other humans who have come in contact with (view spoiler)[ the above mentioned beings our protagonists have been led into self-destructive, even evil acts.
Ghost Story was a ground-breaking classic written in 1979 that set the bar a mile high for any paranormal tale to come after it.
The meeting following the peculiar death of one of their members, to break the tension, a member asked "What's the worst thing you've ever done?" To which he replied, "I won't tell you that, but I'll tell you the worst thing that ever happened to me...the most dreadful thing." And so the ritual of telling ghost stories began.
The atmosphere and character development is what makes Ghost Story so effective.
When I finished school, I sold my The Shining, my The Stand, all of my horror books except one.
There was one novel with which I could not part--Peter Straub's "Ghost Story." Ghost Story, set in upstate New York, unwinds brilliantly.
You, like the characters in the book, think that you can easily escape for the first hundred pages.
This is a book that combines the chill of the New York winter with the arthritic helplessness of old man nightmares.
I have read this book several times now, and I firmly believe it is the The Brothers Karamazov of the horror book world.
I know that Ghost Story is just a little mass-market paperback but I don't care, I really enjoyed it. It was brilliantly written, the characters were complex, the imagery was vibrant but not overwhelming and the story was creative and original.
One of the best written stories I've ever come across!2015: Still a classic....
Boredom, thy name is Ghost Story. I would rather de-spider my attic and/or drink straight pickle juice than force myself through one more chapter.
But I think I have some sort of problem with Peter Straub's writing.
Where with Dan Simmons and Orson Scott Card their words just seem to effortlessly flow into my mind, I find there are times when I need to reread Straub's sentences.
I figure Straub simply doesn't "click" with me so I think it would be unfair for me tocriticize this novel.
I very much enjoyed Ricky, Sears, Lewis and John, and would love to sit in on moreChowder Society sessions.So...overall, did I like it?
If you like Peter Straub you will love this.
A Classic horror story. I haven't read this book in many years and had forgotten a lot of it. I am glad I pulled it out again. They just don't write many like this one anymore.
EXCERPT: Still in South Carolina, he thought that a highway patrolman was following him: the police car was twenty yards behind, keeping the same distance whatever the man did.
He thought he could see the state cop speaking into his radio; immediately he cut his speed by five miles an hour and changed lanes, but the police car would not pass.
He thought actual writing was probably beyond him even though actual writing was probably what he was best at.DISCLOSURE: I own my rather battered copy of Ghost Story by Peter Straub.
One of those rare books that will always stay with you. Superb storytelling, wish every story was as memorable.
You have a decent movie-adaptation, which, although weighted down with several flaws, boasts a storyline that is both original and creepy.Having read his later, Vietnam-based novel, 'Koko', I'd had very high hopes with 'Ghost Story'.
He has written several books, but only 'Ghost Story' and 'Koko' seem to have found any considerable audience.
Don't you even think about it, Douchebags...The fact that this novel's monsters weren't even ghosts - like the title suggests - was irritating.
For 'Slow Children' indeed ...Maybe 'The Exorcist' was the greatest horror novel ever written.
Un sentito omaggio ai classici racconti gotici dell'orrore ed una originale rivisitazione delle stor
One of my all-time favorite horror novels, and the one that made me an immediate fan of Peter Straub's work. A pure delight.
In its premise and its depiction of supernatural entities, it's original, even groundbreaking; but it also stands within the great tradition in its solid, accessible literary craftsmanship and its fundamentally moral orientation --a consciousness of the difference between good and evil, and the basic nature of the difference.
The malevolent supernatural entities here are not demons in the Biblical sense (and the book makes little reference to the Christian tradition at all, though it isn't incompatible with it, IMO); but like demons, their principal weapon is temptation and deceit, and the principal weapon against them is an ability --which not all people have the wisdom and moral strength to do-- to resist and see through that.
That's no fault of the book, and it's one I could even see getting the bump to 5 in the future on a re-read.It's slowly paced, yet not painfully slow.
It certainly does not feel like a book with inflated word count just for the sake of word count.Ghost Story is layered nicely.
My previous experience with Straub is pretty limited, having read The Talisman and Black House, both co-written with Stephen King, as well as a reading of Floating Dragon in my teen years.
Fantastic book if you like to be scared. Straub is a master of this genre. I love this book and enjoyed the film starring Alice Cridge, Fred Astaire and Douglas Fairbanks Jr.🐯👍
The slow burn of darkness seeping inexorably into a small town. A classic that takes it’s time to haunt you. “Wouldn't you like to live forever? Even if you must die first? It's a good Christian bargain, after all.”  *audible note: the narrators voice was firm and, while his talent for female voices was lacking, the male voices were distinct.3.5 Stars
It is a decent movie, but don't see it first.Don Wanderley lives through an encounter with a ghost, Alma Mobley, who passes to his brother (in human form, of course) who ends up dead.
The stories they tell are chilling enough, but the one they save for last, to tell Don, is the most chilling of all, and it is the root of Don's personal ghost story.I really hate to give away details in these types of stories, but suffice it to say (I love that phrase!) the book is probably one of Straub's better works.
Quite simply the scariest book I've ever read.
Although I will say that the story Sears shares with the Chowder Society near the beginning of the book was probably my favorite part of the whole book because it truly was horrifying.
Let the story unfold at its own pace.
The way the scenes changed reminded me of how a well-paced movie or TV show would go.
If you're like me and you have an active imagination and love to get creeped out then I think you will enjoy this story.
SCARY AF! I think Imma need a Christmas romance after that one. WHEW.
