https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202464.Classical_Electrodynamics

A lazy, beach read.
It's a good textbook.
But it is also the densest, most boring thing I had to endure in my undergraduate life.
For a first approach it is definitely heavy.
Also heavy on the backpack since I think i got scoliosis from carrying about this book from campus to my house and back.
I hated it with a passion.
Both professors that assigned me this book died in 2014.
Great guys, not even this book can spoil the good memories i have of them.
Martín, Rubén, i hope you are proud of me now for finishing this awful book, wherever you are.
the graduate text everyone uses, but you should learn the basics somewhere else. unless you are very mathematically sophisticated (and much smarter than i am), you won't be able to teach yourself from this text. he skips a lot of steps in his proofs and assumes you've seen it before or can figure it out. i imagine a good lecturer teaching from this book would do great, though.
Standard textbook in graduate electrodynamics - boot camp for first year students. Actually a course in mathematical physics more than electromagnetism, many different mathematical techniques are presented throughout. Unnecessarily complex presentation. Use of non-standard CGS unit system adds a touch of sadism to an already difficult text; this is the only place in a physics career where you will see it.
This is the standard text upon which a graduate student's love of the subject will be crushed. A formidable book, with little elegance. Which is all the more tragic for the special elegance of the subject. A. O. Barut is highly recommended over this tome for electrodynamics (if you have a choice in the matter). Waves and Green's functions are probably better treated by a dozen or so authors.
The first half is really good, but once you get past electrostatics, he starts assuming too much. Derivations which fill three chalk boards and contain one or two very subtle steps are presented in four lines where the subtleties are assumed to be obvious.
Of all of the graduate-level physics books, I have heard the most horror stories about this one. Now it is my turn to see how many sleepless nights result!
The Bible on E&M.
this book is pain.
Killing physics students. One at a time.
Terrifying.
There has got to be a better EM text out there. Why is this one the standard?
Even though this is the standard, I could not get past the style. I prefer Griffith's, even though I am sure Jackson is much more comprehensive.
کتابی بد قلق که واقعا به درد آموزش الکترودینامیک نمیخوره!
Great, difficult, and perfect.
Reviewing this book would be like writing a review for my parents on parenting skills. Reading this book will break you and then remake you.
An absolute classic. Impossible to understand as a novice, but...still not the most clear even later on, so don't start with it.
The classic book that every graduate EM professor forces on their students because they had to suffer through it when they were in grad school.
At the end of the day though, I am happy for that.
It has the right level of sophistication without drowning too much of the physics in math and also covers the breadth of knowledge expected out of graduate students and eventually PhDs in physics.
I'm sure I along with many of my superiors will eventually be annoyed with that but it makes the transition from Griffiths a little smoother.
The is _the book_ for any graduate student in physics who plans to do any form of electromagnetism whatsoever. It does not matter what scale, what frequency, what field, what focus. If you are doing anything remotely related to electromagnetics (statics, dynamics, quasistatics, light-matter interactions, doesn't matter), you have to read this book. If not from cover to cover, then at least the relevant fundamentals. Very dense, but also impossibly enlightening. If you haven't properly engaged with Jackson at the graduate level, are you even a physicist?
It's probably a good book - if you use it as a reference - but as a teaching aid it blows chunks. The most hated physics graduate textbook yet paradoxically one of the most important :( As for myself - I can tolerate the (albeit undergrad level) Griffith's text and, of course, the Landau's Classical Theory of Fields (and other volumes) do a better job filling in the gaps that Jackson otherwise assumes you were born knowing.
Everything you ever wanted to know about Classical Electro-magnetism? Probably - and a few more things besides. There's a third edition (this is the second) - I don't know what's changed.Everything you ever wanted to know about vector calculus is probably in here, too, neatly summarised on the insides of the cover and the facing pages, which is very handy.Have fun with Jackson and his friends, Maxwell, Bessel and Green!
The writing and explanation are acceptable but the book is almost the defacto standard so you need to tough it out. Other books are more illuminating but its hard to argue with standard notation and lots of problems.
comprehensive and ...painful exercise
Famous for its questions
A reading that was only challenged by the ugly smell of the book..
My text book of msc 2nd yr
Better than I think. Better than Sivuhin in some areas.
