https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6875162-the-beginning
Nice little intro to the Dark Hunter world, and I totally didn't see that twist at the end coming! So clever!
4.75/5Very short but great! It was an interesting introduction to Dark-Hunters world. You can find this novella as a chapter in Acheron.
The introduction in the universe of Dark Hunters. We learn a bit about Acheron,the first dark hunter, and his relationship with goddess Artemis and the terms he imposed upon her for the creation of dark hunters.There is also a sad story included in theses few pages that showed that even a clever warrior can be misled and deceived.
This novella offered a glimpse into the distant past and showed how the Dark-Hunters came into being. It was a fun read. I liked they way Acheron was sucked into helping train the Dark-Hunters for ArtemisIt was great to learn more about Acheron and his relationship with Artemis. Though the glimpses we got here only left me wanting more! Simi made a short but typically hilarious appearance. Rating: 3.5 stars.
Okumak için...Seriye başladıktan/devam ettikten sonra bu minnak novellayı, Dark Hunterların başlangıç hikâyesini çok aramıştım.
Ellerim boş kalınca da ana kitaplardan devam etmiştim.
Yeni bir kitapla yola devam etmeden bu yıl bir daha şansımı denemek istedim veeee –mutlu son- Dediğim gibi, bu novellacık Dark Hunters’ın oluşumunu anlatıyor.
Bu küçücük kitapta bile bunu yapmaktan geri durmuyor.Şunu bir kere daha gördüm ki Artemis kaltağın teki.
Dark Hunters tarihinin başlangıcında da sonrasında da bu değişmemiş.
Diğer kitaplarda olduğu gibi Archeron’ın üzerinde hâkimiyet kurabilmek için elinden geleni ardın koymuyor.Novelladan tutun ana kitaplara kadar adam her yerde gizem ve güç abidesi.
Varsa bir de bana yollar mısınız kurbanınız olayım?Hı, hı?
Un libro que me permitio conocer un poco mas a fondo a Ash♥
Reviewed for THC Reviews"4.5 stars" This short, thirty-page novella used to be considered the second story in the Dark-Hunter series, and that is the order in which I read it.
In such a short space, Ms. Kenyon managed to create a character who was extremely intriguing, and I am anxious to read more about Acheron in the future.
If I had read this novella on it's own without knowledge of it's connecting stories, I probably would have found it to be unsatisfying, but knowing that there is so much more to come, it simply whetted my appetite for future offerings in the Dark-Hunter series.
¡Pero que zorra es Artemisa! ¡Empezaba a darle bofetones como si no hubiese un mañana!
The exam was about this poem that was related to Greek mythology, so when I was asked to interpret it, all I did was apply my extensive knowledge on GM, all thanks to the Dark-Hunter series.Welcome to the Dark Hunter world, in The Beginning you will read about this really hunk of a man called Acheron, who leads the Dark Hunters, his demon Simi, who loves eating cows owned by cyclops, this bitch of a Goddess called Artemis, of course, the Dark Hunters and this vicious, vampire-like creatures called the Daimons.Acheron: "Acheron didn't want to do this.
Interesting read on how the Dark Hunters started when Acheron became involved. Still love him....and still hate her. Would recommend waiting to read this till you've read a few of the Dark Hunter books. Favorite quote:♥ To look at him was to want him. To see him was to ache to touch him. He had been built to please, and trained to pleasure.
Desde el principio de la historia Artemisa siendo una zorra, cuándo no. Acheron siempre siendo un condenado, pobre =/Y Simi haciendo de las suyas XDPues aquí se ve más o menos el inicio del drama de la creación de los Cazadores Oscuros, y las primeras reglas que los regirán, aparte de incorporar a Acheron como su cuidador y entrenador, obviamente es una información que se va agrandando conforme pasan lo libros. Para mí es un buen pie para empezar en el mundo de los DH. Recomendable.
PFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF.Ya con leer esto, me muero por leer Acheron. Como dice Artemisa, tiene algo magnético."¿Y tú, Acheron? ¿Confías en alguien lo suficiente como para entregarle tu alma?"YYYYY me muero por leer la historia entre ellos dos.
This was a great short story that explained how the Dark Hunter Acheron made a deal with Artemis to stay by her side so that she would provide for the Dark Hunters so they could survive and kill the Daimons.Acheron was tricked into his death by Artemis.
Once Artemis turned him into a Dark Hunter he couldn't stand to be around her and he would ignore her pleas for him to come to her and for 2000 years he stayed away from her until at last she called for him to let him know that she made some more Dark Hunters so they could help him and that she wanted him to lead and train them.
After reading the awesomeness that are these 20 pages, I died a little when I realized that Acheron's book is 15th. I will die until then! I still loved this short story that explained a few things about the Dark Hunter world. That last page was just.. Woah.
August 24-25Review - I really enjoyed this as a start to the series and knowing how the dark hunters were created it's kind of messed up how evil Artemis is and that she does love Archron but he hates her and finds her not very trustworthy so he trains the dark hunters and finds one guy who's wife misses him very much and when he goes to Artemis to bargin for his soul and other things for the dark hunters and when he goes with isas to his wife it turns out he doesn't love isas but his brother who is dead so this isas guy dies what the fuck interesting short story .
Quote-To look at him was to want him.
To see him was to ache to touch him.
He had been built to please, and trained to pleasure.”
Como introducción al mundo de los Cazadores Oscuros está muy bien. Pero son 20 páginas, así que el desarrollo no es extraordinario. De todos modos es interesante y hace que te entren ganas de leer más y más de Kenyon.
This just makes me want to go and re-read Acheron's story!
Maldita Artemisa que perra eres, agarrenme que la mato
It's a very quick read!
But, it's so worth it!
Readers of Acheron will have read most of it, but it never hurts to read it again!With well written, concise, beautiful use of imagery, Kenyon is able to take the reader back in time to a different place; a different world, with flowing ease of thought provoking, emotive words that are aimed directly and intentionally to elicit catharsis.I don't know how she does this so very well, but few authors are able to put words on paper so well.Definitely a book most people will be able to relate to on some level.
I was suggested this series by a friend, and after reading this prequel I can tell this universe will be right up my alley. Can't wait to get paid sonI can purchase some more from this (quite long) series!
Maldita Artemisa por ser una diosa vaca
Also I am glad that it wasn't the first in the series, because it would have set the wrong tone.Artemis was different, it tried to show her more sympathetic, but I still don't like her, and this didn't make me want to change that opinion.It had Simi in it, but I'm glad that I knew her previously, this would not have been a good introduction to her.
(Also there is lots of conflict going on with Simi.
(view spoiler)[In the last book Acheron said that she was his daughter, but didn't clarify if that meant actually of his blood or not.
(hide spoiler)]
Ini tentang kejadian pertama Dark Hunter dimana di ceritakantentang Kyros dan Ias, dua DH pertama yg pernah di ciptakan, kisah Ias AKA Alexion lebih di tonjolkan (nanti Alexion ada buku sendiri).Tentang bagaimana Artemis dan Ash juga bisa membuat kesalahan (missjudgment) terhadap persyaratan pembebasan jiwa para DH.Bahwa karena rasa bersalah nyalah (dan salah paha fatal) membuat Ias hidup sebagai bayangan selama 2000 tahun, dan pada akhirya di bawa ke Katateros oleh Ash untukmenebus kesalahannya.Ada Simi juga yang selalu dialog nya lucu dan mengundang senyum, dan terlalu di manjakan Ash.Good beginning :)
It seems that I have read this out of order, so I will refrain from rating until I have read the books that come first. (It has been recommended that this story be read after Dark Hunter #9).As I am new to the Dark Hunter series, I found this a sad, bleak tale about how Acheron was ensnared by the capricious Olympian goddess, Artemis, to toil for eternity battling demons to protect humanity. I will continue reading the much-recommended series...
So this is how the series start... I don't regret having read Fantasy Lover first, this would've put me right on track as well. The only downside though is that it left me wanting MORE and Acheron's book is so damn far away. I'm only about to start reading Kyrian's.Positive side: I still have Dark, Were and Dream Hunters to make my days happier for a good, long while ;)
Relectura desde 2010. Tengo sentimientos encontrados con Artemisa. La odio con toda mi alma por forzar a Acheron a su presencia y sin embargo creo que la entiendo y me da lástima. Cometió un error, él la odia, pero ella le ama con toda su alma. Lo va a tener muy difícil con ese atlante, pero la vida inmortal es eterna, así que esperaremos que acaben bien para ambos. Juntos o por separado.
Like I said in other reviews, you will get this eventually after reading at least one full lenght dark-hunter novel (number 2)... lot's is explained and then we get to see this story in full deatil on Acheron's (love him) book
3.5
No está mal, pero tampoco dice nada que no sabía ya. No sé, me esperaba descubrir algún pequeño secretillo o algo que no aparezca en los libros
Poor Ash, this was heartbreaking!
