https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312612.Mindbridge
Reading my second new-to-me Haldeman novel in a few months, I again found myself underimpressed.Haldeman's writing style itself is fine.
The book, despite its nominal structure as a collection of historical documents, is eminently readable, and moves quickly and surely most of the time.The plot is a different matter.
The plot feels constructed of disparate materials, stuck together only thanks to Haldeman's engaging style.
Overall, the effect is of a really thoroughly written set of authorial background documents wrapped into a synopsis - as if Haldeman sent a concept package to his agent, who said "Looks great!
Otherwise, there are better uses for limited reading time.
Carol Wachal is a clone of Marygay Potter, as is her relationship to Jacque.In 186 pages (my edition), Haldeman brings up a number of ideas - FTL travel, the nature of intelligence and consciousness, and life after death, among others - and a deus ex machina in the form of the titular "mindbridge" without ever exploring or justifying them in a satisfying way.And the disjointed structure of the novel is a gimmick rather than an interesting way of telling the story.Haldeman also fails to create a believable relationship between Jacque and Carol.
Good. Maybe a 3.5, but Haldeman doesn't get the beginner's benefit. Probably would have enjoyed it more thirty years ago. Some SF ages better than others.Inconsequential geographic mistakes about Colorado Springs--where I lived thirteen years--knocked me out of the story several times. No big deal, but Haldeman shouldn't have made them.
Then the author drifts off into long rambling nonsense about babies and women being used as brood mares, and then seems to just lose his place in the story and changes the upcoming war into "hello, i'm a powerful alien and i will guide your species as long as you don't become too powerful" - THE END.It was the biggest disappointment of an ending to a book I've read in years.
However, there was a great deal of promise in the writing style when the author was actually on-point with the story and not rambling - so I'd be willing to read something else of his but - I think I'll read some reviews first.
There are also complicated charts that have information that pertain to the story (and a lot of info that is extra just for color), tangential stories about side characters such as the man who operates the LMT chamber crystal, several interviews with the characters presented as though it were the actual official document, and interesting passages where the characters are actually communicating psychically through the Groombridge mind bridge.
I was entertained thoroughly while reading it, and thought the author's way of playing with the presentation of each chapter was interesting, if a bit distracting at times.
Probably the most sexist science fiction novel I've ever read. I can't believe what's expected from the female space travelers. It's total abuse of the female body. What's expected from the men isn't so good, either, except that the main character doesn't seem to realize it. No civilized society would treat its people like this.
Excellent, vintage Haldeman - this man is becoming a "go-to" writer -- I read anything he writes, as soon as I find it. I did come late to reading him, for some reason... my sci-fi reading was primarily done at least 20-30 yrs ago - so I'm now going back, trying to catch up on books I've missed!
This is a reissue of a classic science fiction book by the author.
I found the book very engaging which made it a fast read.I recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of classic science fiction.I received a free Kindle copy of Mindbridge by Joe Haldeman courtesy of Net Galley  and Open Road Integrated Media, the publisher.
It was with the understanding that I would post a review on Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon and my fiction book review blog.
I also posted it to my Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google Plus pages.I requested this book as I read a number of books years ago by this author and found them interesting.
On a planet the second out from Groombridge 1618, Jacque Lafavre and his team bring back what appears to be a sluglike alien life form.
This is plot thread # One for Mindbridge.Plot thread # Two involves a first encounter with some very dangerous or possibly just misunderstood aliens known as L'vrai.
They provide creepy thrills and some old-fashioned monster movie mayhem for the last third of the novel.Plot thread # Three is the love affair of Jacque Lafavre and Carol Wachal, which is never very interesting but survives some of the most sexist notions of "Go forth and multiply" to make it into a SF novel.Haldeman, in his second novel, more or less keeps all this tied together, interspersing chapters with transcripts of telepathic sessions, detailed work orders, progress reports, and charts.
The ideas, imagination behind the plot is fantastic but the characters don't feel fleshed out , and the reasoning behind Jacque ability to communicate with the L'vrai is .....interesting.( By the way, I am wondering if the name of the aliens is a little tongue in cheek joke or not ).Why five stars would you ask?
Mindbridge is absolutely worth the few hours you are going to put into it, it is like other great ( yes I said great ) Sci-Fi novels in that Mindbridge is entertaining, uplifting, philosophical, full of sadness, sorrow, anger and rage , full of inventions , but short on character development.
This is a reissue of a classic science fiction book by the author.
I found the book very engaging which made it a fast read.I recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of classic science fiction.I received a free Kindle copy of Mindbridge by Joe Haldeman courtesy of Net Galley  and Open Road Integrated Media, the publisher.
It was with the understanding that I would post a review on Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon and my fiction book review blog.
I also posted it to my Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google Plus pages.I requested this book as I read a number of books years ago by this author and found them interesting.
REVIEW: MINDBRIDGE by Joe HaldemanAward-winning author Joe Haldeman' s trademark philosophical science fiction is much in evidence in this futuristic tale of universal exploration, made possible by the implications of a new theory of astrophysics.Delineated through the character if "Tamer" Jacques Lefavre (son if the physicist who devoted his lifetime to disproving this theory), MINDBRIDGE explores alien telepathy, and the existence of an ancient species of star explorers.
Joe haldman is becoming one of my favourite authors!
I read it back in the Nineties. A gripping tale.
imho some of the last great Sci Fi.
Cea mai bună carte a lui Haldeman rămâne Războiul Etern, iar Conexiunea PSI e departe de valoarea Războiului.
Există aruncate în C-PSI niște rânduri care se vor a fi tehnice - sau ceva de genul ăsta - însă mie mi-au părut mai mult un fel de umplere inutilă de spațiu cu litere.
Ăla a mai trăit atât, altul a mai făcut asta, plus o scrisoare de adio a personajului principal.
Cam atât de data asta.
Mi-aș dori să scriu mai mult despre cartea asta, dar ar însemna să continuu să mă vait.
Încă mai aștept să descopăr o carte la fel de bună cum e Războiul Etern.
This book has some interesting ideas, like the instantaneous transfer to distant planets with all its limitations and dangers.
I wish that idea had been explored more.
For a while it seemed like the newly discovered aliens would make the book interesting again, but they turned out to be level 9001 wizards specializing in telepathy and blowing up suns.
Lucky for us they weren't all that interested in blowing us up.
(view spoiler)[Why not give the alien a fresh mindbridge?
Because all the aliens are linked into one mind, the mindbridge should kill all of them instantly.
(hide spoiler)]
I think this is the award winning book I have enjoyed least.
I liked the varied writing style (reports, statistics, small plays etc) and there were some solid concepts but the narrative just seemed a little on the weak side.
Indeed I feel a really interesting protagonist was rushed through and you are rarely given time to learn anything about him rather you are told.The explanation for the mind bridges is given to early and is to obscure.
The big twist ending is easy to see coming and leaves it all feeling a bit flat.
Possibly ground breaking at the time but I feel the actual story was neglected.
Rushed but interesting plot, quite a bit happening at the same time, non-linear narration and confusing at times.
De la science-fiction années 70 qui se veut ancienne école et pleine d'humour et de rythme.
✭✭✭½
I found this to be routine science fiction by a competent, and sometimes e xcellent, writer.
Review from http://wp.me/p3fsue-Cg.Mindbridge by Joe HaldemanOrbit, 1977 (186 pages)This novel uses a sort of 'bits and pieces' narrative approach; extracts from an autobiography of the main character, scientific reports, regular novel chapters (named as such), communiqués and so on. It it extremely effective in creating a fast-moving narrative that gives a very full picture of what is going on and lets us see the characters from the inside and the outside.    Cover of Mindbridge by Joe Haldeman
Review from http://wp.me/p3fsue-Cg.Mindbridge by Joe HaldemanOrbit, 1977 (186 pages)This novel uses a sort of 'bits and pieces' narrative approach; extracts from an autobiography of the main character, scientific reports, regular novel chapters (named as such), communiqués and so on.
Cover of Mindbridge by Joe Haldeman.The story is one of alien contact, both with intelligences and an enigmatic little sea cucumber-like critter that acts as a bridge between minds -- hence the title.
There are fights, technical difficulties, life-threatening problems on multiple fronts, and the puzzle of just what it is they have found and whether the intelligent aliens are friendly or not.It all goes on quickly, page-turningly, headlong towards the end.
Haldeman is famous for having won both the Nebula and Hugo awards for The Forever War. That book reflected his feelings about war based on his experience in the Vietnam War, but it also contained one of the fundamental elements of romances: the Gap That Cannot Be Crossed.
The story seems pretty familiar to Forever War readers.
So this isn't just a tale of two books - The Forever War and Mindbridge.
(hide spoiler)]If you've read The Forever War, you've seen Haldeman at his best.
In this novel of the future, humanity has found a way to travel to the stars. Using a system called the Levant-Meyer Translation (LMT), ‘tamers’ (as the travelers are called) travel to planets around distant stars. LMT can send you anywhere but the amount of time you spend there is limit and then you ‘slingshot’ back to where you started. LMT has two major limitations, you cannot go for less than 19  hours and the exact spot where you land is guess work (you could land in the ocean or in a swamp
In this novel of the future, humanity has found a way to travel to the stars.
(One weakness of the story is that it’s never explained how people are then able to stay on the planet permanently without ‘slingshotting’ back.) When Jacques Lafavre goes out on his first mission, which is supposed to be a ‘milk run’ to a planetoid his team encounters an unusual environment.
It’s very Earthlike and, the planet is given the name “Groombridge” (after its’ star).
This race is the “L’vrai” who have been traveling the stars for so long they don’t remember their original planet.
“Mindbridge” was released in 2014 on eBook, though originally published in 1976, and was written by Joe Haldeman (http://www.joehaldeman.com).
Mr. Haldeman’s Science Fiction writing has been recognized with several awards and he has published more than 25 novels.
I obtained a galley of this novel for review through https://www.netgalley.com.
This Science Fiction novel is set in a far future where Earth is colonizing other worlds.
A few years later the Tamers encounter alien life on one of the worlds they are sent to explore.
Further book reviews I have written can be accessed at http://johnpurvis.wordpress.com/blog/.
Un problema ben più grave si presenterà tuttavia a Jacque Lefavre e all'umanità intera: gli L'vrai alieni di angelica bellezza e al contempo straordinariamente crudeli, si stanno anch'essi espandendo nell'universo conosciuto.
Le speranze di evitare una guerra su scala galattica che porterà inevitabilmente all'estinzione di una delle due razze, o forse di entrambe, sono poche e si incentrano tutte su Jacque, l'unico in grado di comunicare con gli L'vrai e di spiegare loro l'essenza della mente umana.
There's some leftovers from older times, like old-fashioned ways of describing people of different ethnicities, and the idea that given enough time, humans would gradually become more and more psychic.
There are three big ideas here: that Earth discovers a way to temporarily teleport through space, and the implications of that drive behaviors that seem nonsensical at first but then are described.
All kinds of time was spent on discovery one, less but still some time was spent on at least the initial experimentation following discovery two, but the society implications of discovery three were only barely touched on.
I'll have to say that overall, I liked this book.
High points of the book include the way Haldeman hints at the aliens shapeshifting abilities, where one of the tamers smile at the L'vrai, and its teeth change from pointed to square like human teeth.
It was a nice balance of science and fiction: not too much hard science and not too little character development.
Also, this would be a good book for a creative writing workshop, in which the students would have to write an alternate ending to the story.
A novel that includes explorers of possible earth like planets for humans to terra-form, aliens and relationships between crew members.
His "bosses" decide to use the organism that has bonded with Jacque to communicate with threatening aliens.
The result of all this opens planet earth to the stars due to a evolutionary direction that is not seen before.Mindbridge is science fiction that reminds me of the science fiction I read several years ago.
This sometimes makes the novel "choppy." However I think that this will create more interest in reading the novel.
