https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157974.That_Quail_Robert
I do love reading animal stories, especially true accounts of real pets such as Robert, the quail.
I fell head over heels in love with Robert the quail.A retired New England couple notice that a quail has built a nest in their large back yard and from a respectful distance they keep watch.After the baby quail are hatched and the mother has led them away to safety they decide to investigate the nest.
The bright studio lights would've dehydrated and killed Robert in a few minutes or else the lovable quail would've made an appearance as well.This is a must read book for all animal lovers and/or anyone that needs to have their spirits lifted.https://www.bing.com/images/search?q=...
The narrative is simple, written without ego, and the reader is able to learn the story of this extraordinary bird.
The author was the neighbour of the owners, but she quickly became Robert's beloved babysitter and our connection to the people-loving bird.I glow when I think of the impact these five ounces of bird life made, and how many lives she enriched, to say nothing of her fame.Book Season = Spring (feed the birds)
I needed to reconnect with my quail-loving self after they nibbled my spaghetti squash plant to death.
What happens when the human world becomes a substitute for Nature?
Readers must judge for themselves in this charming tale about a delightful female quail, misnamed Robert.
Written with humor and pathos by an observant neighbor, who became Robert's Aunt and long term hostess, this slim volume is a gem about surprising family adjustments.
Human emotions seem to have rubbed off on this impressionable birdling, who rapidly becomes a member of the family--even to requiring babysitters.
How human can a bird get?
Once you spend some quality time with personable and endearing Robert, you will know the truth for yourself!
“The [telephone repairman] stayed several minutes after the work was done just enjoying Robert, shaking his head in disbelief .
“Several days before Christmas a crèche was set up on the buffet .
The beautiful figures hand carved by a dear friend .
There was none of the excitement [Robert] always evinced when a bag of groceries was brought in; he just stood at the corner of the buffet and looked.
Then very slowly he walked over to the crèche, looked at each figure carefully, then settled down in front of the shepherds, gazing at the Infant.
And he stayed there.” Five awe-inspiring stars.
Oh, Robert, your story brought me lots of smiles and warm fuzzies. Great story for any animal lovers out there!
A tiny bird with a sweet personality charmed thousands and became famous for a brief number of years in the early 1960s. Little to no photographic evidence exists online.
My mother and I both read this book not long after it was published in 1966 and we both loved it.
After just having read it again, I sill love it.
What a wonderful fun and loving story.
Robert was a quail (a bobwhite) that hatched from an egg that the "adoptive parents" found after the quail mother had left with the other 8 or 10 chicks that had already hatched.
The humans were surprised when their egg hatched.
What a very special bird Robert was!
Robert became as famous in the 1960s as the library cat (Dewey Readmore) became 40 or so years later, and just as endearing.
Short yet charming biography of an abandoned wild quail who was rescued by people and came to like living with them. This is an odd thing to say about a bird, but Robert really had a delightful personality. The part about the broccoli tantrum made me laugh out loud.
4.5 stars
I loved it! Very different. If you're an animal lover give it a try.
At that age, though, I think I was mostly responding to the premise of a quail kept as an indoor pet.
Most of the time, an answer was only a page or two away, the author anticipating her audience's curiosity and relishing the unique peculiarity of the situation.
All in all, I think the oddity in tone enhanced the reading experience for me.
The prose sure isn't lyrical, but it made the chronicle feel "closer" than maybe it would have been if written by an author of grander ambitions.
A very simplistic memoir of the quirks of an unusual family friend.
Robert the quail has a very large personality, which is odd as quail are normally very reclusive and shy birds.
I think it is the mystery of the quail that makes this such a fun book to read.
Very quick read, the language is easy and pleasant, the chapters are well laid out and nothing ends with cliffhangers, and the actual page count is quite small.
And of course, Robert herself is a very amusing little character!Really a good bedtime book for a parent to read to a child.
What a delightful read. I read it on a relaxing Sunday afternoon. A Cape Cod couple "adopt" a baby quail, who lives with them for quite some time and becomes quite a celebrity. A true story written by their neighbor and quail sitter. Two other books that tell of unusual animals "adoptions" which I enjoyed are The Good, Good Pig, by Sy Montgomery, and Wesley, the Owl, by Stacey O'Brien.
This was a sweet story and probably the reason I have quail now. There is a button quail at the pet shop near my home that chooses guinea pigs for companions. These little animals are too cute!
this lady was really into the quail
Really enjoyed this story.
I remember loving this as a kid.
I picked this book up on a whim from a second hand bookstore in San Diego and am absolutely delighted. What a wonderful story based on a real bird. Anyone who enjoys stories about animals, nature and such should give this one a try.
The doctor observed Robert’s Mother nesting in June.
Hearing that abandoned nests aren’t revisited, they checked the next day and found one cracked egg; which to my puzzlement, they didn’t bring inside with them.
A closed egg that they kept warm, was Robert’s.Her three years were vibrant and full.
The context Margaret astutely explains is that: people weren’t family-oriented towards even household pets, where she was from in the farmed mid-west.
She released in total fourteen unfertilized eggs and chose to stay with the Kienzles.
I feel happy about acquainting this endearing group of people and animals.
(Well, maybe that's not true, 'cause anybody who follows my reviews knows the last book I fell in love with featured lots of nature and some birds.)This one's about a quail chick that gets adopted and raised by a retired doctor and his wife, has the run of the house, and becomes a great favorite of the author who frequently babysits.
If I tell too much I'll have to put a spoiler alert on here and I'd hate to do that 'cause I love it when people read my reviews, so you'll just have to go to the library and beg them for the book.
Wow, apparently Robert was a rather famous quail.
As one can surmise, this is the story of a quail that made himself at home with humans and the lively time he spent with them.
The book is written by a good friend of the family and is well qualified to write it as Robert ends up being quail-sat by the author several times.
There's so much valuable trans-species interaction in this book that it goes a long way to shooting down the idea that animals don't have feelings.
They may not have the same KIND of feelings we do but they clearly do.
A cute little book on a family that finds an abandoned quail egg -- which then hatches and produces Robert.
To their surprise, Robert's really a Roberta, which they discover after she lays her own first egg.The story is about the personality of the bird, which fully adapts to living around humans.
There's only one scant mention of Konrad Lorenz but the book would have benefited from more.
Lorenz's work on imprinting, which occurs in birds about 12 hours after they are hatched, shoes that they attach themselves to the nearest moving object at that time.
Lorenz' work on birds and this developmental phenomenon specifically noted that they would attach to his boots.
I'm making slow progress due to Christmas traveling but read a bit last night.
I got this at the town transfer station.
A surprising # of G'readers have read it.
Better not have a sad ending!
But of course it does have a sad ending and I admit to a tear or two.
Robert was the kind of animal that doesn't live long.
For all the thousands of years that dogs have been with us and we have loved them and enjoyed their companionship they still don't live very long.
It's their nature(their genes).
Notes:- why are earwigs "ugly and repulsive"?
This is a true story of a delightful quail who comes to live with a family on Cape Cod and touches the hearts of hundreds of people.
Assuming he was a male (just one of the surprises SHE provides, Robert is given free reign of the house where she proceeds to follows her people around like a dog or cat and displays what can only be described as affection for them.
She eats at the family table and shows emotions, such as loneliness and fear (of ALL birds.) At a mere five ounces, Robert has a very large personality,
I found this book cute and quaint. Throughout, I kept thinking that I should recommend it to my grandmother. There's nothing shocking about the book (even the shocker isn't shocking), and there's only one possible outcome. It was enjoyable along the way, though I periodically found myself a tiny bit annoyed by everyone's devotion to the quail, sort of like a parent who won't shut up about their adorable child who just peed on your living room rug. Again, it's short and cute, and probably a must-read for bird-lovers, but I admit I was less than enamored.
This a book my third grade teacher read to my class. I was looking online for it and another 3rd grade favorite, Bristle Face by Zachary Ball, when I found a copy being closed out by my local library. Now my 11 year old son has read it and loved it just as much as I did nearly 30 years ago.
As animal stories go, the difference here is the remarkable fame achieved by this quail, who became a regular tourist attraction at Cape Cod.Mild, easy reading. I'd recommended for old fashioned, naturalists, or very young readers.
If you like animals and even birds, you will love this sweet short story. Robert was found in the backyard and hatched by the couple that found him. Robert imprinted on them and loved people, but feared birds.
A short, sweet story of a baby quail that grew up and warmed the hearts of the people around it.
