https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82172.The_Joy_of_Sex
I read this too young and I particularly remember a part that talked about not wearing spiked boots during sex, because while it may be a visual turn on it can cause some unintended physical pain in the long run. I felt it was a good point and made a note to my prepubescent self to not have sex while wearing spiky boots.
I received this book THREE times as gifts. Do I look like complete sex-idiot?
--When I was 15 and found this book hidden in the basement, I read it and it gave me quite a thrill. --The 70's version is awesome and disgusting and awesome, awesome, awesome!--The hairy man beast who was prominently featured in the original version of this book may be entirely to blame for my disgust of facial hair (thank goodness my husband shaves daily!)--I’ve never seen the new version with the modern couple and don't care to. It would totally ruin the magic.
Your sex life will explode after reading this book.
Here is a joke based on this book.(You have some visible injury - cast, eye patch, bandage, etc.)Person A: "What happened?"You: "You know the book the Joy of Sex? There is a typo on page 137."
This is not a beginner’s guide, it is billed as “gourmet love making.” As such the book assumes the reader or preferably readers are experienced with sex and are in a committed loving relationship:“ we take some things for granted – having intercourse naked and spending time over it; being able and willing to make it last, up to a whole afternoon on occasion; having privacy; not being scared of things like genital kisses; not being obsessed with one sexual trick to the exclusion of all others; and, of course, loving each other.
The Joy of Sex is actually very down-to-earth and not really at all titillating (pardon the pun).
That being said, this book is most likely to be of help to relatively inexperienced couples, but even those of us who have been around the block a time or two will probably find out something previously unknown.Comfort's direct writing style and factual information will likely irritate those readers who picked up the book thinking it'd be a quick thrill.
However, for those readers interested in improving their lives in the bedroom, it's worth at least a skim-through.Highly recommended for the relatively inexperienced couple.
This is the second book about sex that I have read; the first being "She Comes First".
Overall it wasn't a bad book and it was a quick read, but the format was sort of confusing and odd to me.
There were four sections: Ingredients, Appetizers, Main Courses, and Sauce & Pickles, and each section had multiple excerpts about different topics.
Basically, there'd be a paragraph or two on an idea or topic and then it would move on to another one.
It reads more like an indexed encyclopedia than a novel or book.
I find this rather G-rated in a hardcore world. I would probably feel comfortable giving this to my age 18 children if I had any. If you are really looking to reignite the spark, I don't know that this will do it, but you will know if you crack it open and find yourself saying 'been there, done that'. I do not consider myself kinky or used hard and put away wet, I probably fall more into the PRUDE catagory.
Heterosexist, all Caucasian illustrations, and a bonus dose of fat-phobia. Good times.
Somewhat hirsuit, but normal people.Anyhow, it was cheap for the Kindle, I wouldn't have to worry about Milo stumbling across it in a pile of old books when he was older, so I gave it a shot.The version I read was "updated" fairly recently.
It seems as if the updates and revisions to the text are, most likely, limited to only the most essential things (references to modern birth control, and updating references to dated sexual politics).
kalau sex for dummies justru lebih banyak menjelaskan seputar organ reproduksi laki-laki dan pria (tentang fakta, penyakit, cara penangulangan, mencegah) dan sejenis itu (tapi dibahas dengan bahasa yang tidak menjijikkan dan sangat edukatif), kalau buku ini benar-benar membahas seputar sex,,TAPII, menggunakan bahasa yang sedikit puitis tapi tidak menjijikkan juga.Penulis menggambarkan bagian tubuh atau adegan sex seolah sebagai kegiatan yang wajar dan ya biasa.
menurut saya buku ini serius sih, hampir tidak ada tulisan candaan atau humornya gitu.
tapi malah bikin buku ini makin keren.bagus dibaca buat orang yang gatau tentang teknik-teknik dalam berhubungan tapi ingin mendapatkan penjelasan dengan jelas tanpa kesan menjijikkan.hmm, saya sekarang jadi tau tentang anuan deh (((anuan)))
This book was comprehensive if you are a heterosexual interested in knowing more about heterosexual sex. The lack of mentions of LGBT individuals and the assertion that all humans are bisexual when each individual has autonomy over their identification seems problematic. Much of the information and opinions provided could be found through other online sources, such as Columbia University's 'Go Ask Alice.' The illustrations and intimate and honest tone are extremely beneficial, though.This book is not particularly kink or queer friendly, but I will probably purchase this for my soon-to-be newlywed Catholic friends to give them a resource on sex.
Read sometime in high school? Mostly at other people's houses while babysitting? That's the best I remember.
– Then this book is for you!Need in-depth knowledge on sexual experiences and an easy how-to-guide for that which you haven’t learnt yet?
I liked this book but at the same time it wasn’t exactly what I was looking for...
I was hoping to understand certain things better, especially when it came to the positions, but unfortunately it didn’t elaborate like I thought it would and had a general “we’re not going to explain ourselves because we assume you’ve at least tried this” attitude about it.
It didn’t deliver exactly what I wanted, but it did deliver.
While I can see how this book might have caused a stir back in 1972, to my modern eyes it seems hopelessly dated and rather dull.
The frequent use of terms like "squares" and "straights" and other 60s/70s slang date the book considerably, as do some of the attitudes and opinions expressed.
I also found the book to be somewhat biased towards the male sexual point of view.Overall, I didn't find "The Joy of Sex" to be very exciting or enlightening as a sex manual but I did find it somewhat interesting as a sort of historical item.
Don't get me wrong, this classic book is very good in SOME departments.
If I ever had kids, or had read this when I was much younger, I felt it would be a very insightful book.
This book does a very good job of explaining respect for sex partners.
What it doesn't do is explain anything outside of heterosexual lovemaking.
While it does talk briefly about safe sex, I felt there was alot left out.
So I was expecting something more insightful in alot more departments.
I would call this book the vanilla guide for heterosexual sex.
I've always been fascinated with sexuality ever since about 5 years old like many others, so I was glad to be interested in this assignment:) To me, it's a nice basic overview of sex and sexuality.
That is pretty natural for me, so I like material that will spark interest in that area, causing me to brainstorm ideas for future romps:)The best part about this read to me is the message of consent, respect and communicating with your partner.
Everyone is different and unique in this department even with our universal foundation so it's important to maintain respect for yourself and your partner always.
The omission is defensible in that a comprehensive volume couldn't be hefted, rendering it less than useful or enjoyable and offending those who are already at the edge of their sensitivities.
Alex Comfort published a book that neatly and with dignity addressed a topic of widespread interest that remained quite closeted in 1972.
It became a basis for conversations on the topic of sex for couples and for general, mature discussion that wasn't muddled by schoolboy stories.
Comfort's book squelched much of the tittering palaver that passed for discussion of sex before its publication.
I have always wanted to read this book!
I was actually doing a little "research" for my latest novel, THE WARRENS.
When you are writing about the sex life of a younger couple, you want to make sure you are not missing out on anything!
This is an updated version and the photographs are absolutely stunning.I enjoyed it, it was a quick read because of all the photos.
I would recommend THE JOY OF SEX as a perfect wedding gift for anyone making a trip down the aisle or to anyone who needs a little boost in the bedroom.
I know that this book was groundbreaking for its time, but I found it to be a bit one sided. It's not terrible however it is seriously outdated down to the illustrations of how modern people view sex, how we assimilate information about sex, how we talk about it, how we view what we do and the feelings and emotions or lack thereof attached to it all. The book to me felt very clinical, with no personal flare into the author's approach and attempt to inform.
This book is very straight, which is fine. Straight people need these books too! But it's overly committed to gender norms, so it's only palatable if you really subscribe to the idea that women are like this and men are like that. I bumped it up a star just for the part where Comfort suggest that no one, not even women, should shave their armpits or wear deodorant. It's for the pheromones, and that's awesome advice. Pick and choose what you like from this one, I think.
The hairy guy and the booted hooker. The Japanese pictures were better. The text? It's always good and useful to hear what other people think and know about sex. Date read is a guess. I see that Goodreads has switched images on me again. My edition wasn't ultimate and revised. I wish they wouldn't do that! Probably something to do with Amazon's "needs".
It's just -- NOAH SHAW Y'ALL.
Now days many people in America read urban books involving sex, drugs, and violence. However they also read other books out there, but surprisingly several of them are banned because of it’s religious beliefs, violence, and sexual content. Personally I believe every book that’s out there should be available to the public.  One reason I think books should be available is because of its religious beliefs. At times people tend to question god, some are not quite sure who he/she is, and others may n
Now days many people in America read urban books involving sex, drugs, and violence.
However they also read other books out there, but surprisingly several of them are banned because of it’s religious beliefs, violence, and sexual content.
One reason I think books should be available is because of its religious beliefs.
People who are really religious might not want their child to read this book because of its questioning of god.
In conclusion, I believe that all books should be available to the public, weather they contain religious belief, sex, or violence.
Writer Kate Figes has chosen to discuss Alex Comfort's  The Joy of Sex  on FiveBooks as one of the top five on her subject - Sex and Marriage, saying that:"It seems so innocent really now, all those daring explanations of S and M and positions, but it was before Aids and people were so optimistic. It was as though we’d discovered sex and free love."The full interview is available here: http://five-books.com/interviews/kate-figes
Also, the writing is confusing.
There was a sort of half-assed attempt at a dictionary format, so some sections start with just a noun phrase and some start with a full sentence.
The inconsistency is confusing.
Then, there are sentence that start with "For her, ..." but it isn't clear if they're talking about advice "for her" when she's doing something for him, or advice for him when he's doing something "for her." Obviously, a lot of the time, the context clarifies it, but it's not always easy to tell which was intended.
This was available on bookbub and the title caught my attention since Dr. Gottman referenced it in his book I read a week or two ago, so I figured why not.
The book reads like a dictionary with each chapter providing a word or phrase followed by a few sentences (5 paragraphs, at most) describing that word or phrase.
There are pictures and while it's obvious it was written by a male, he does try to emphasize respect and equality.
An extra star earned in the rating because he quotes some of my favorite classic literary heroines: Anna Karenina, Madame Bovary, and some Jane Austen.
A classic book which has been updated several times.
I got it on a Kindle sale some time ago for $1.99 or less but hadn't gotten around to reading it.
There are lots of topics/chapters and each one is 1-2 pages, maybe 4-5 at most.
You don't have to read the book cover to cover.
And you don't have to try everything in the book.
Some chapters you'll want to skip as it doesn't interest you.
Some you just might want to read and then decide that topic isn't for you.
i don't think i have this particular version, but they keep reprinting it, and it just keeps getting better.
i can't really recommend a particular chapter, cos then you'd know how kinky i was/am, but hey, everyone should have a copy on hand for various reasons...either for yourself on those cold winter nights, or when you think you've done it all and here comes another position!
if you can find the version that has the pics of the hippies of the 60's, it's awesome to see how 'au natural' men and women's bodies were---don't worry, they're drawings, not photos!
