https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2269088.Alias_the_Saint
His investigations lead him to a dodgy looking company in which a ‘Sebastian Tombs’ is a prominent employee.Sebastian Tombs is of course Simon Templar.Switching perspectives between Teal and Pamela Marlow, a secretary at this company, we have a very different short story: one where the mystery is ‘what on earth is The Saint?’ up to.
But all in all this is a lumpy tale which tries to do too much, and I much prefer them when they have sleeker and straighter lines.The National DebtAnd here’s another way to attack a Saint story, and one to really make us question quite what the word ‘adventurer’ means.
Only for hardcore fans—these are very early Saint stories. The first two of the three stories are dreadfully written, as Charteris himself admits in the preface. The third is also a very early story, but one can see the character of the Saint actually taking shape.
I remember reading this series as a child. I use to sneak them out two or three at a time from my Aunt Francie's book shelf, with her permission, unbeknownst to my Mom. What I loved about it was that unlike comic book characters you could actually see Simon Templer maturing as he was getting older.  So glad I rediscovered the series. I want to start from the beginning all over again.
So I must make some tedious distinctions, and ask your indulgence.The standard editionhas three stories:The Story of a Dead Man finds Simon turning businessman for very unorthodox reasons.The Impossible Crime is, among other things, the author’s offering in that favourite genre of detective fiction, the Locked Room Murder Mystery.In The National Debt, in the identity of Professor Rameses Smith-Smyth-Smythe (!), Simon takes on some 20th century pirates operating from an inn in South Wales.
The edition I have has only two stories mentioned.'The National Debt': A bit over done and confusing at times as The Saint character, using an alias is suspected and accepted at the same time by a gang of bad guys.
That makes little sense.
Also the coercion of a scientist seems also far fetched.
it all ends as such stories do, but I felt very unsatisfactory in the end.'The Man Who could Not Die': This is a nifty short tale that is also confusing as the story has various flashbacks and the editing makes where those start and stop not clear.
Another great Saint book. I'm really enjoying getting reacquainted with this old antihero.
Leslie Charteris is now all but forgotten, but for much of the 20th century he was an immensely popular author, and the adventures of his fictional hero Simon Templar, known as The Saint, could be followed in radio serials, a succession of B-movies in the 1940s (initially starring the delightful George Sanders, and later Sanders’ brother Tom Conway), a 1960s TV series, another TV series in the 1970s, and several 1960s movies.
It differs from most English crime fiction of that time in that the hero is (despite his name) morally somewhat dubious.
In some ways the stories are a cross between detective fiction and adventure stories.
Originally published on my blog here in October 1999.Like so many of the Saint series, Alias the Saint contains three disconnected stories of the length Charteris found most pleasant to write.
In this collection, we have the story in which Simon Templar first uses his favourite alias of Sebastian Tombs (chosen to annoy Chief Inspector Teal), a locked room mystery, and a complex plot revolving around a kidnapped (beautiful, female) chemist rescued by Templar.The first story is the best, having a lot of humour and a twist.
But there's still more in the Saint of the thirties than in most other thrillers of any decade, even when the stories are not Charteris' best.


I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed this book.
As a fan of traditional mystery/crime fiction I had a felling I would like the Saint and I was right.
The saint character reminded me of Campion however a much more polished and morally ambiguous version.
Not generally being a fan of short stories I wondered how these three would fit together, Charteris has that rare talent of making a small cast of familiar characters exciting and almost predictable at the same time.
I will be reading more of the Saint series if only to learn more about Teals chewing gum habit.
I love these old fashioned adventure type books and have been reading and collecting Saint books for about eight years. This wasn’t one of my favourites to be honest. It was made up of three stories and I was slogging through thinking it was OK but not great although the last and shortest of the stories made it worthwhile. It had everything, a well-spoken criminal mastermind, poisoned gas, a damsel in distress and with the hero being left to die alone in a room that he will obviously escape from. Why do they never just shoot them?
Alias the Saint has three stories in it, and two of them don't lend themselves well to an audiobook. Several times I had to go back because there was an info-dump and I couldn't get the characters straight! The 3rd story worked the best, maybe because of the way the tale unfolded. Maybe I'll come back to this one after I've listened to more audiobooks and see if it improves on a 2nd listen.
Over-wrought and over-written, these vintage adventure stories show their age. Simon Templar is smooth and charming and he has it both ways as he takes on pirates and a locked door murder. The language is clang-y and stuffed with antique slang.Problematic.
A collection of 3 stories, two of them featuring Claude Eustace Teal who was Simon's weary nemesis. CI Teal was one of my favorite characters in the series.
Not the best of The Saint, but still very fun.
first story is best. third is short, so good enough. second has moments.
reread today. 3 novellas. good plots.
