https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344254.The_Marne
The central character of the story, Troy Belknap, is on his annual summer vacation in France when the battle begins.
He tells himself he will return to help in the fight to save France, a country that has come to feel as a second home.The book, first published in 1918, is Edith Wharton’s response to the frustration she must have felt regarding the American attitude of indifference toward the war.
Between every chapter the story is interrupted by the information that what we are listening to is a Librivox recording.
A lightly regarded and little read novella by Wharton that seemed hurried and incomplete.
Published in 1918, the year America entered the war, it was an attempt to highlight what Wharton viewed as American indifference, at least up until that point.
Also to counter the perception that France needed to be rescued and the French shown how to do the things the right way.
That certainly rankled her because of her love for France, which she displayed in the young American character, Troy Belknap.What is surprising about the perceived failure of this work is that it came between Summer and The Age of Innocence, two of her best known novels.
Wow, that was dreadful; a preposterous tale incompetently told, shocking from an author of Wharton's stature. Of interest only as a contemporary source for idiotic witterings about the war.
4.5 stars (liked a lot)This is probably my favorite Edith Wharton book so far. In this novella, we are introduced to the story of 15-year-old Troy Belknap who is from a wealthy family in New York but yearns to serve in the area of France along the Marne River where critical World War I battles took place, known as The Marne. A well-rounded and well-written human interest vs. military focused war story. I highly recommend this one!
Edith Wharton and the Great WarA very timely read on the 100th Anniversary of the Great War. What a sensational piece of fiction with an American protagonist, captures so well the hubris of America entering the war and teaching the old world with American institutions. I could not put this down...Highly recommend
Focusing on the life of Troy Belknap and presenting a general view of American life and opinion during the first world war...
Slim little volume on the French battle in WWI. Not her best, but not bad.
This isn't a collection of stories, but the novella.
All in all, disappointing compared to everything else I've read by EW.
The story concerns a young American, who enlists in the foreign legion to fight for France before the U.S. becomes involved in the war.
With the exception of the young man, all of the other Americans are portrayed as out of touch with the horrors of war as they worry about getting the right dress for the season, or being able to travel comfortably through Europe.
This short novel was obviously meant as patriotic propaganda, to inspire American involvement in France's affairs (even though it came out near the end of World War I).
And that's the problem: all Wharton's usual care with representing the subtleties of social relations, her fine eye for character, her skill at writing interesting plot elements are all lacking in this work, pushed aside for the propaganda.
It's really almost an outline of a more fully fleshed out work...except that the events, the characters, the unbelievable coincidences used to forward the plot are all extremely uninteresting and cliched.
A minor detour in an amazing career.
This was a brief and excellent work that deals deftly with the attitudes of Americans going to France during World War I. It presents the United States as it 'comes into its own' and contrasts that idea of bringing enlightenment and civilization to the Old World with those of Troy Belknap, a boy who love France so dearly that he would die for her. Great book.
Perfectly readable
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
One of those very rare occasions when Wharton failed to impress with her delicate subtlety, even when delivered in the form of audiobook and read by the talented Elizabeth Klett.
Loved this! The ending is just amazing
Troy is a brat. I choose to believe that Wharton made him that way as a critique of his type of American.
