https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114172.Because_You_re_Mine
OMG! Why didnt anybody told me this book was this good? Seriously, all of you out there, LK fans, what's wrong with you? Knowing I'm such a freak when it comes to LK. I had postponed this series because it was supposed to be not as good as the rest but IMHO it was one of the bests and I definitely expect more books in it in the future. I really enjoyed the first installment in the series, the introduction to this world which goes around the theater life was exquisite and most interesting. It was
OMG!
Why didn´t anybody told me this book was this good?
I had postponed this series because it was supposed to be not as good as the rest but IMHO it was one of the bests and I definitely expect more books in it in the future.
It was refreshing to read about more normal and common people and not always have nobles as heroes and heroines.But this book, OMG, I have no words for it.
It definitely became a fav from this author.
Straight to my favs shelf.
This book definitely staked your writing talents and ability to manipulate a readers emotions, but I'd just as soon not be subjected to this "type" of "romance" manipulation again." Logan Scott is a famous actor of his time in his early 30's (along the lines of a Brad Pitt), and Madeline is a young, aristocratically-born girl of 17-18 years who, in desperation, plans to seek Logan out and have him "ruin" her to avoid an extremely undesirable marriage.
Poor Maddy suffered all his coldness and rejection, and the only thing that saved this book (OVER AND OVER) were LK's ability to constantly play on my emotions and make me feel sorry for Logan at all the EXACT turns of the page.
Forced into an unwanted engagement Lady Madeline Matthews comes up with a plan, become ruined to break the upcoming marriage, and she sets her sights on the well known actor, owner of Capital Theater and womanizer Logan Scott, only the plan didn’t include for her to fall in love.......
Like many other readers, I too didn’t care for the way Logan acted in the second part of the book, he was awesome and heart-wenching alone and how his became bright eyed as he fell in love with Maddy in the first half of the book.
How terrible of me.
But the characters!
Here's all the terrible things I thought of Madeline:Naive IndecisiveStupidPushoverSelf sacrificingYou might not think that the last one is an insult but in this case it is.
Can some fictional character show up and strangle him to death for me, please!
He obviously loved her but insisted on hurting her for no fucking reason!
It wasn't stupid.
But at the end of the book we find out that's not why he's been hurting her at all!!
Maybe I'm just ornery.So if you're a Lisa Kleypas fan go ahead and read this book.
The first half of this book was pretty good.
A little far fetched with Maddy's scheming but still had a sense of fun & sexiness.The second half is a whole different story.
I know I'm alone on this according to the Goodreads ratings but I do not enjoy forcing sex on someone in the name of romance no matter what his true feelings are and even if her body betrays her and she enjoys it in the end.
I found the whole thing to be un-sexy and a little horrifying.
I guess this just isn't the right type of romance trope for me.
While at school she sees a picture of the actor Logan Scott, finds him dashing, and decides she will ruin her reputation with him so she can live her life the way she wants, disposing of the smelly, old fiancee.
What I loved about Maddy was that she was never manipulative with her plan and conquers Logan with her sweet care for him.
The confrontation/climax which was in the middle of the book was heart breaking and Logan seeks revenge harshly towards Maddy after her plot is uncovered.
This was such an incredible read!Why the hell didn't I read this book /series before now?(But, isn't it wonderful to find a series you've had on your TBR list for a long time, and then just start reading the first book only to discover that you've had a gem in your possession all along?)Wonderfully written.Amazing storyline.Beautifully developed and engaging characters.I loved how edgy and sinister Logan Scott could be in order to protect his heart, and Maddy was just a brilliant character to watch develop.I highly recommend this series!
Not great. Ultimately, I didn't believe any of the characters or their motivations, and the hero wasn't redeemed enough after being a complete asshole. I love a good jerk hero, but he has to BEG afterward. He just kept treating the heroine like crap and it was supposed to be a point in her favor that she always accepted it. He went "omigoodness she loves me even when I'm the worst person alive, she's great!" and that's why he fell in love with her. That is NOT what I want to read.
Dopo il parere positivo sul primo libro della serie, devo dire che ho gradito anche questo.La prima parte è molto bella, con questa ragazza che si ribella a un matrimonio combinato e fugge nella Londra della perdizione per farsi rovinare la vita e conquistare la libertà.
Ok, detto così il piano sembra piuttosto ingenuo, e in effetti naufraga miseramente.
Insomma, sembra quasi una punizione divina per farlo rinsavire e impalmare la dolce fanciulla.Ma, dai e dai, l'amore arriva (anche grazie all'intervento di una simpatica e anziana ex-attrice).Quindi, nel complesso un buon libro, piacevole e vivace.
Un hombre que se ha hecho a sí mismo, con éxito y con un aura que atrae a todos hacia él y si a eso le añadimos la intriga con respecto a su pasado tenemos los ingredientes para que una novela de este tipo funcione y atrape al lector.
Lo peor que puedo decir de esta novela es sobre la familia de la joven Maddy que es para echarle de comer aparte, sobre todo su hermanita que tiene tela.Todo ello hace de una novela que contiene partes divertidas, intrigantes, conmovedoras y de pasión.
Lady Madeline Matthew, seumur hidup terkurung oleh segala peraturan ke 2 orang tuanya bahkan disaat teman2 sebayanya menikmati pesta season mereka di london, madeline harus tinggal di sekolah selama 2 tahun lagi.ternyata 2 tahun dia disekolah adl permintaan lord clifton, orang yg jauh lebih tua dibandingkan ayahnya, jg orang yg telah ditunangkan dengan madeline oleh ke 2 orang tuanya.Madeline menolak mentah2 pertunangan itu tp dia tidak bisa menentang secara terbuka keputusan ke 2 orang tuanya karna percuma saja, pasti tidak akan didengar.maka dengan nekat, madeline pergi menemui logan scott, aktor sekaligus pemilik theather.
Here's why.Maddy was:- too trusting- self sacrificing (to her own detriment) - too forgiving - pushover Logan was:- asshole - verbally abusive (literally threatens her physically and sexually) - mean Basically, Maddy does Logan The Big Hurt and he "can't get over it" even though the hurt honestly wasn't as terrible as he made it out to be.
Then he exacts revenge by treating her like shit, saying terribly hurtful things to her, all the while fucking her and treating her like a living fleshlight.
One lie = literal dog shit.
4 solid stars!I loved this book so much!
It was full of angst and love!
Logan was such a tortured soul in need of love but just couldn't allow himself to love or be loved in return.
Once he met Maddy, he was a goner but he fought against it.
Poor guy, he was in desperate need of love and ughh!
Yes, he was cruel to Maddy but she did break his trust and he had his own reasons for being the way he was.Maddy, Maddy, Maddy....
I got so much second hand embarrassment from this one...
Love,love,LOVED!I have to take a breath before i rew!Oh...read this book!Skip the first if you like...but read this one!Do it NOW!
"Because You're Mine" is the second book in the "Capitol Theatre" series where there`s a after Novella after this one.In all honesty i did have high expactations as the hero is none other than the irresistible Logan Scott,and i ALSO THEN have to say that this book has come to be one of my great favourites of Lisa Kleypas of all time.How i A.D.O.R.E "Because You're Mine".Everything with it is perfect...excellent!The innocent and adventurous heroine Madeline Matthews decides to seduce the notorious and ambitious hero actor Logan Scott.
Because You're Mine by Lisa KleypasSecond in the Capital Theatre series4 starsLady Madeline Matthews doesn’t want to marry Lord Clifton.
Logan Scott wants nothing to do with Maddy and he just wants her to leave his theatre and it doesn’t help that he has an attraction to her.
Logan was the dashing male hero that I have come to love in Kleypas’s books.
This book was definitely different from what even I usually read in historical romance.
I’m definitely looking forward to getting my hands on more of Kleypas’s books.Plotastic Scale: 4.5Cover Thoughts: I love the cover; it’s what actually made me wanna read it.
It's not a terribly original plot - young girl arranged to marry older man, runs away from home to escape said marriage, sets out to get super handsome guy - but it had all the ingredients to a great romance.
Madeline also finds two friends - first Logan's comanager, Julia, who helps her find a place to stay - with an elderly former actress, Mrs. Nell Florence.
The twist in the story comes when everyone starts getting sick - including Logan.
But this is Lisa Kleypas so we know she's going to get our couple together again, but on what terms...(view spoiler)[ It turns out, Madeline gets pregnant from their night together.
Many of the circumstances seemed to happen too easily and unrealistically - one instance, namely, being Madeline's plot to run away from school and go to London.
Madeline was also incredibly boring to read about - really not much to love about her, too perfect and too good.
Now, I'm not against good characters, I love our little rays of sunshines who have a heart of gold but Madeline just felt overdone and a bit too much for my taste.The latter point of their relationship when Logan was having his angst fest also skirted the edges of being abusive in my opinion.
The h’s dubious plan to outsmart an aged suitor by ruining herself (with the famous actor) leads to all sorts of complications and it was the H who can plead ‘being used’ here although one can tell she had fallen for him quite early (and vice versa).
She wouldn't have been able to live with herself if she had.’But her sweet acceptance of any punishment he might mete out to her post their forced wedding and dogged persistence in loving him despite his cruel put downs, was very touching and endearing.Other characters also played their parts to make for interesting subplots.
Lady Madeline is an 18 year old who has been kept in school and never had a come out ball because her parents had promised her to Lord Clifton, a lecherous old man.
She runs away from school to London, to attempt to seduce Logan, whose picture she has seen in a playbill.
Logan grew up being abused and left his family to become an actor and eventually own his own theater.
Madeline keeps the secret of who she is and her real reason for being at the theater and becomes a valuable asset to all assets of the production and organization.


Started this one but put it down pretty quickly - the 18-year old heroine was not believable and the 30-year old hero was way too old and too experienced for her. Also, I just could not believe that the hero would be "one of the richest men in England" as a theatre owner who started with literally nothing and spends all of his time either managing his theatre, rehearsing plays (he's the main actor and director at the theatre), or writing new plays, no matter how successful he is at what he actually does!
Maddy sampai akhir nya tinggal disana selama sakit, ga peduli nama baik nya deh.Setelah sembuh, Logan mulai melihat bahwa dia mencintai Maddy yang selalu di tolaknya selama ini, dan rasanya ga bisa hidup tanpa Maddy, terjadilah apa yg selama ini di impikan Maddy , setelah Logan "sehat", mereka make love (Maddy suka rela banget), dan malam itu juga si Logan bilang kalo dia cinta sama Maddy, dan mau Maddy jadi istrinya.
[image error]Logan akhirnya setuju datang ke rumah mrs Florence untuk menemui Maddy, dan menikhi Maddy demi anak yg di kandung Maddy (huh, padahal sih sebenarnya karena dia cinta dan ga bisa hidup tanpa Maddy, tapi ga mau ngaku)...sampe sini pengen getok Logan deh
3.5 ⭐⭐⭐ “Porque eres mía” de Lisa Kleypas es el segundo libro de la serie Teatro Capital. Madeline es la tercera hija de sus padres, quienes quieren imponerle un matrimonio ventajoso con Lord Clifton. La chica no quiere casarse con un hombre que es mayor que su propio padre y al cual se encuentra aburrido. Por lo que trama conquistar al famoso actor Logan Scott para hacer desistir a sus padres del insistente casamiento. Madeline empieza a trabajar en el teatro Capital para acercarse al actor. En
Por lo que trama conquistar al famoso actor Logan Scott para hacer desistir a sus padres del insistente casamiento.
Madeline empieza a trabajar en el teatro Capital para acercarse al actor.
En el inicio Logan rechaza a Madeline por su juventud e inexperiencia, pero mientras pasan los días siente una fuerte atracción hacia ella sin explicación.
Poco a poco los dos inician un romance y terminan enamorándose sin mediar las consecuencias.
También sentí como infantil el comportamiento de Madeline al insinuarse a Logan solo para enojar a sus padres sin mediar las consecuencias.
La primera parte de la novela está bien, los personajes tienen mucha química.Es hasta que se casan cuando todo cambia y se vuelve aburrido y ya no tiene mucho enganche. Me gustó más la primera vez que lo leí hace varios años.
3.5 stars I really enjoy LK's older historicals but I can only take so much of the "mr hero got his feelings hurt so he's gonna be aloof and punish the heroine because he LuRvEs HeR but she can never know because he's mad" trope otherwise my rating would be higher
Hooray for the Happy Ending! One thing you can guarantee and rest assured in when reading in the Romance Fiction genre is that you're going to get a happy ending. Just like watching a movie with a superstar cast, you know the headlining actors, whatever the story's direction, won't be eliminated before the end. So is a similar knowledge for the Romance novel. There will be love, passion and a happy ending. Thankfully, as I've seen so far, Lisa Kleypas novels have a bonus, a good story. I've bee
One thing you can guarantee and rest assured in when reading in the Romance Fiction genre is that you're going to get a happy ending.
There will be love, passion and a happy ending.
I've been enjoying the lite reading but if there wasn't a good story, believe me, I'd still put the book down.
The slightly slow start and a certain characters resistance to love due to a previously broken heart got on my nerves!
It ended happily.) ..I mean good thing the guy was loaded and he could lay it down because his attitude..
It's fascinating to see how the inside of the theater works, and the way that her relationship with Logan evolves is enjoyable to watch.
She shows our characters quickly overcoming some of the more predictable threats to a relationship that are in other novels.
And she pulls a number of disparate plot threads together in unexpected ways.Problems I had, aside from the aforementioned rapeiness: Madeline is a bit Mary Sue-esque in that she is good at everything and everyone loves her; it would have been nice to have that toned down a bit.
Although this time I found their attraction too good to be true, I still adored them together and enjoyed reading about how Logan had fallen head over heel.4.5 Stars First Read: 13 March 2016I loved Logan.
I ADORED Logan and Maddy together.
Maddy was a perfect cure for his aversion of love.
I loved how she kept trying and trying.
It was quite annoying to see how they were both loved each other so much but still held back, especially Logan.
I felt kinda sorry for Maddy but Logan was just too perfect for her and her happiness.their book was a very very enjoyable ride.4.5 stars
