https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/915979.The_Case_of_Mary_Bell
And we weathered the year together with Justin and I don’t know what happened to him after that because I left that school and so did J (though our departures were not because of Justin but in the natural order of things).I thought a lot about this time when I was reading The Case of Mary Bell.
One of the things that bothered Sereny was that courts did not allow discussion of the background of criminals in the course of the trial – the facts of the case were the only allowable elements (and I think it’s similar here – the background is only relevant in sentencing.) The Case of Mary Bell follows the events around two killings and the subsequent trial.
Interviews with those in the community as a whole also provide a fascinating insight into how these crimes affected a whole community for many years and still affects it, I believe, today.Sereny also discusses the way the justice system treats children who kill and again produces some interesting thoughts on this.
Her examination of the trial process is thorough and I also found it fascinating to see how children are interviewed by the police in such matters.The book, though written some time ago, is still highly relevant today in our increasingly violent and disillusioned society.
Gitta highlights that this case is also particularly interesting, from a sociological stance, because of the way the jury - and indeed the general public - seemed to place most of the blame on Mary, despite her being the younger of the two.The book starts with some background information, and then there's a detailed section on the trial itself; this makes up a large portion of the book, and it is indeed very interesting to hear what was said as well as Gitta Sereny's analysis of it.
The book then concludes with information on Mary's (and Norma, to some extent) lives after the trial, and how the author feels that these tragic murders of two innocent little boys could possibly have been avoided in the first place.
Anyone who's familiar with the cult classic film The Bad Seed will at least partially recognize the story of Mary Bell, who was the inspiration for the movie.
Mary Bell, an 11 year old at the time, and her 14 year old friend Norma Bell (no relation) were accused of killing two toddlers in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Norma Bell was eventually acquitted and Mary Bell convicted of manslaughter in both cases.
The press loved to call Mary a "Bad Seed," a "Monster," and "an Evil Birth," but the author refuses to present things so one-dimensionally.
Child murders are spoken of so sensationally by those who find true crime to be little more than entertaining fairy tales to keep one up at night. The contents of Sereny's The Case of Mary Bell are the very opposite of that sentiment and perhaps that is why it hasn't been as widely read by true crime aficionados. Her compassionate curiosity left me feeling cleaner than other "titillating" accounts of Mary Bell and her crimes did so.
Eventually Mary was found guilty of manslaughter in both cases and Norma found not guilty.The fact that an 11-year-old could commit murder was shocking to Britain at the time, but in spite of the sensationalism of the British press, the case wasn't covered.
She appeared to have no affection for husband, children or even the rest of her family.
The fact that her family constantly stood up for her, tried to explain her behavior and took her in no matter what seems to me to indicate that she had successfully manipulated them.
During her early years the idea was not widely known, nor did she do anything that might have brought her to the attention of authorities of any kind.

Not a bad book at all, but you don't need to read it if you have already read Sereny's follow-up on the same case, CRIES UNHEARD.
I would recommend it either way because there is more on Betty Bell, Mary's mother, in here that the reader will want to know.
Touches on some amazingly pathological family dynamics without ever really attempting to explain why those little boys died.
I think this was sensible on the author's part; only Mary can tell us for sure, and Sereny did not have access to the little girl at the time this book was written.
Updated version including a view of the Bulger case. Sereny is a compassionate writer who throws many questions into the arena of why children kill. Not an easy read but a fascinating account, one that brings up issues of family dynamics that must be looked at. The mad or the bad issue in mental health is closely considered as well as issues of childhood abuse including commonplace abuse in TV, film & computer games that accustoms us to violence. Really worth reading.
Trama davvero complessa e particolare. Non ogni giorno ti capita sotto mano un caso d’omicidio in cui le sospettate sono due ragazzine, di 11 e 13 anni. La storia è molto intrigante, soprattutto la parte centrale, che ti riporta al passato di Mary. L’autrice molto precisa.
An incredibly intelligent aand compassionate analysis of a horrendous crime. Asks questions which everyone in society should consider. Thank you Gitta.
Sono arrivata a questo (interessantissimo) libro attraverso una tortuosa catena mentale che non sto a raccontare qui, senza sapere nulla del "caso" in questione, e solo leggendolo ho scoperto che si tratta di una sorta di "prima puntata", scritta nell'arco di due-tre anni dagli avvenimenti narrati, quando l'autrice - né nessun altro, se non la protagonista della vicenda e la sua famiglia - non sapeva nulla del passato di Mary Bell.
In seguito, molti anni dopo, sarà la stessa Mary a raccontare a Gitta Sereny la sua storia che è l'oggetto del libro successivo, Cries Unheard, che sto leggendo ora.
The case that so appalled the UK in 1968 that the newspapers refused to cover the trial.
Gitta Sereny's compassionate and forensic account written in 1973 of the killing of two small boys by the psychopathic 11 year old Mary.
The verbatim extracts from the court case show just how hard the justice system tried to cope with a unique series of events.
Unfortunately the situation that caused these tragedies has not improved in the UK in the intervening years, in fact things have probably deteriorated.
This is a really interesting case but this particular account is not very engaging. The writing is very dry and at times quite repetitive. The section covering the trial, in particular, was a bit difficult to get through. I found some of the interrogations on the stand hard to follow, though that could have been the formatting in the ebook - I haven't found a print copy yet to compare it to.
Not my usual read, struggled with the whole book but did manage to finish it, albeit took me 6 months approx! Was a hard book to read but liked the fact the author did not focus on blaming one or the other. Had things been managed different, maybe other’child murders’ wouldn’t have taken place.
La vicenda, realmente accaduta, si è svolta in Inghilterra alla fine degli anni '60 ed è divenuta famosa per la giovanissima età dell'assassina, Mary Bell.In questo libro vengono accuratamente ripercorse le vicende che hanno condotto al processo, opportunatamente glissando sugli aspetti più macabri che non avrebbero aggiunto contenuti utili.
L'obiettivo dell'autrice infatti è quello di raccontare cosa sia successo alle bambine accusate di omicidio (con particolare attenzione verso Mary Bell) invitando il lettore a riflettere e a porsi delle domande.Si poteva evitare la tragedia?
Insightful book into a difficult subject.
The book concerns itself mainly with the moral debate of good versus evil, adult versus child, social versus genetic and all the complex thought processes that surround this type of murder.
They are smarter, more street wise and significantly more devious than most adults.Secondly, there is an inherent ability / option in all of us to control another human being.Thirdly, the chidlren that kill children have to be responsible for their actions.Mary was a troubled child from a very poor family.
Mary knew this and she used it to her advantage.
Your life torn into a million irreparable shreds.Imagine if it was your child.
and it started an addiction to reading (and watching) anything about serial killers and criminal activity.
Although i loved the book the bit that really made me want to investigate this genre of books even more was the chapters about the Bulger case at the end of the book.
Being the same age as Venables and Thompson it was unfathomable to me how they could have committed this crime and i loved getting an insight to the case that i knew about and had followed.
I could finally see how the police caught them and the steps taken to bring them to justice.
I now work for the police myself :o)
Children don't kill other children because they're born evil. Children can be damaged beyond help in their early years by abuse, neglect and privation. Mary Bell was one of those children. Although she killed two innocent young boys, she herself was the third victim. Without sensation, tabloid phrasing or pre-judgement, but with sensitivity and balance, this book lays out the facts as they were then known. I intend to read Cries Unheard, which is the modified version of Sereny's book with input and information from Bell herself, which further details her home life as a young child.
Very sad story, told in Sereny's meticulous manner. The controversial Mary Bell biography has, I believe, far more shocking detail but the story is powerful as it is, told 1972 style with details of Bell's horrible childhood implied rather than spelt out. It feels crass to compare the telling of horrific stories as works of literature, but Into That Darkness is, for me, a more completely told story.
This case has long intrigued me, and when I saw this book I decided to give it a read. Although I know quite a bit about the case, this book introduced things that I have not heard about before, such as the trial itself. The difference between Norma and Mary is made clear, and this gives greater insight in to both of these children. A very good read, and would definitely recommend it especially to those who enjoy true crime books.
Definitely interesting, although spends far too much time in the exhaustive detailing of court proceedings for me. Apparently the follow-up book also by Sereny and in cooperation with Mary Bell herself, is more what I was looking for--insight into her past, etc. Very interesting and worth a read regardless, just be prepared to skim a bit in the court proceedings.
This is a good read, and disturbingly interesting, but it's also a little out dated and missing vital information, but it is well written and generally objective, neither condemming nor justifying, giving a different view than the one we all imagine on hearing that name 'Mary Bell.'
I read this many many years ago but I remember most of the details because it was such a good book.
Fascinating and terribly sad. I thought it was very well written but I don't often read non fiction books so perhaps I have little to compare it to.
sometimes difficult to understand, but not worth what I paid for it :(
Wrong page count
