https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370756.Artificial_Silk_Girl
Written in the 1930s, this book could only have been published in Europe, North American social mores and sexual repression being what they were.
Some of the thoughts expressed herein concern frank and open (but not specific) sexuality, particularly from the female viewpoint.
So the book was published in Germany and was very popular for a couple of years until it was banned by the Nutzies.
It seems that the fascists were opposed to sex and also took issue with the protagonist's mild criticism of the state of affairs prevalent in Germany at that time.This book is presented as the rambling monologue or memoir of a girl who has assumed the name of Doris.
Irmgard Keun (1905-1982), around 1928I've made no report of my rapt exploration of the culture, history and literature of the Weimar Republic (which I have been anxiously scanning for parallels to the current rise of antidemocratic forces in the USA and Europe partially motivated - or at least enabled - by a serious, global economic setback) since last December,() but most definitely not because I haven't found anything worthwhile.However, an extremely funny and perceptive novel told from the first person perspective of an eighteen year old daughter of a thoroughly proletarian family in the last years of the Republic is sufficiently unique to motivate me to pull out the keyboard and propel another unnecessary missive into the electronic ethers.Like her first, Gigli, eine von uns (1931), Irmgard Keun's second novel Das kunstseidene Mädchen (1932, available in English translation under the title The Artificial Silk Girl) was a bestseller in a Germany teetering on the brink of a nightmare set to last twelve years and cost millions of people their lives.
It’s not always the face that makes a whore — I am looking into my mirror — it’s the way they walk, as if their heart had gone to sleep."This story is told by Doris who writes all that happens to her in this book and even though she does not want to show her inner feelings like a diary would, she shows use glimpses of herself.
And now everything looks so different to me —"The story- we follow Doris and all that happens to her before she leaves Cologne and after she arrives in Berlin.
The story, written in the form of the central character's musings and diary, blends a young woman's daily struggles to make ends meet with an at times sarcastic yet always witty commentary on daily life among the working classes during the dying days of the Weimar Republic.
Not having read (yet) the new English translation, I cannot comment on the way in which Keun's peculiar language, grammatical mistakes and all, is being conveyed in another language.Running out of options to subsidize her meagre income as a less than competent typist, Doris dreams of making it big in the movies.
I first encountered Irmgard Keun when I read After Midnight, her critique of Nazi Germany expressed in the first person narrative of Sanna, a young German woman who doesn't overtly criticise the Nazis at all.
In this, Keun's first novel, the protagonist is Doris, another naïve young German woman.
The novel is mostly set in Berlin in the late 1920s, where working class Doris heads from her hometown after she steals a fur coat.
Doris longs for love, fame and fortune - preferably as a movie star - and tells the story of her life in Berlin in the first person.
La signora batte, scarica, infila il libro in una busta non biodegradabile e la porge all’uomo che la prende e se ne va.
Ovviamente senza perdere né linea né battuta.Anche in questo romanzo ci sono molti uomini i cui rapporti umani sono simili a quello instaurato dal brevilineo.Secondo ritratto femminile dopo Gilgi.
Anche questa è una ragazzina nel Berlino del 1932, ma non ha molti sogni.
Doris è come il tessuto a cui si deve adeguare chi non ha molti mezzi e che è destinato a stropicciarsi, al contrario della vera seta.
"Tilli says, 'Men are nothing but sensual and they only want one thing.' And I say: 'Tilli, sometimes women too are sensual and want only that one thing.'" A soufflé with a dash of hard liquor at its center, The Artificial Silk Girl is a sly, charming surprise; an undeservedly obscure, lesser-carat literary gem that is nonetheless priceless as a vivid peek into the lives of bohemian poverty and amoral decadence in Germany on the cusp of Hitler's dark age.The protagonist of this odyssey is an arresting young woman, Doris, who has stolen a mink coat and gone off to Berlin with a vague notion of somehow becoming a star.
The narrator, Doris, is a working class girl and a bit of a ditz who narrates her story and describes her surroundings in a way that appears shallow and laughable even as it reveals both insight and folksy wisdom.
For example, a man asks Doris if she is a Jew, and thinking he hopes for a positive response, she says, “Yes.” He then drops her, which leaves her entirely baffled: “After all, a man should know in advance whether he likes a woman or not.
There is validity in the comparisons to "Sex and the City" and "Bridget Jones's Diary" and in deeming Doris "the original material girl," but that's not necessarily a good thing, and it certainly doesn't make for an interesting novel.
Doris is a shallow, judgmental, petty girl whose ambition is to become famous and wear fabulous clothing and be surrounded by the best of all consumer goods despite lacking the intelligence, skills, or work ethic that would merit such rewards on her own.
Written in some way similar to a mock memoir, The Artificial Silk Girl gives a first -person account of Doris, a young German woman using her looks and charm to succeed.
I understand perhaps the inclination to couch it that way to the modern reader, but I cringed when I read this because Keun's work is unique in voice and it's original appearance was a form of political, historical and gender resistance whereas Bridget Jones and Sex and the City seem more like a reflection of the current times.
«дівчина зі штучного шовку» – це майже як про білявок, яким віддають перевагу чоловіки, але реалістичніше (тому тужніше, хоча й так само дотепно) і у веймарській республіці, яка от-от перетвориться на третій рейх.
доріс, головна героїня книжки, наділена тою мудрістю, яка здобувається тільки досвідно, з пізнанням себе і світу: наприклад, плануючи ввечері повернутися додому, вона вдягає некрасиву білизну, яку треба лагодити на собі булавками, щоб точно не було спокуси десь загуляти.
вона довго здається легковажною – легкою думками й серцем; зазвичай у таких ситуаціях колізія приходить іззовні, і хронотоп викликає підозри, що її рушіями ймовірніше будуть німецькі патріоти, ніж обмануті дружини.
das muss man einfach gelesen haben! eine bessere beschreibung des lebensgefühls der 20er jahre gibt es nicht!!!!
Oppressa da un lavoro di dattilografa che non la fa sentire per nulla gratificata, Doris è costretta a subire le molestie del datore di lavoro fino a quando, un giorno, questi le salta addosso e lei per tutta risposta gli assesta un calcio negli stinchi.
Questa determinazione la porterà nella grande città di Berlino dove vivrà molte avventure, non tutte piacevoli e dove farà la conoscenza di molti personaggi, alcuni piuttosto pittoreschi.La narrazione si snoda lungo le pagine di un quaderno sul quale Doris annota le sue vicende e lo fa fregandosene della grammatica: un sollievo per lei che in ufficio era costretta a controllare ogni virgola!
Das Kunstseidene Mädchen (The Artificial Silk Girl) is a book by Irmgard Keun, written in the time of the Weimarer Republik (pre-Nazi Germany).
One of my favourite moments in the book was when she stood him up: "Ich wunderte mich von neuem, wie ein Mann, der doch studiert hat und schlau wird aus Blasewitz seine Backzähne, derartig dumm sein kann." (I wondered again how a man, who has studied and can understand about Blasewitz's back teeth, still can be so stupid.) The book is about how Doris makes her way through life, not always in a completely honest way, but just trying to make a living.
I found her very inspiring, because throughout the book she shows real strength, both physically and mentally and I admired her the more for it.The Materalien in this particular edition were also lovely.
About a strong -- if young party-hard, bad decision making -- woman who's just trying to get over (thanks every day Curtis Mayfield), and does, for the most part.
all in the day of a young woman anywhere really and i guess that's what makes this novel so good; slangy, fast moving inner and inter dialog, very nice descriptions of place, food, fashion in Berlin, and beautiful examples of a modern woman in a not-so-modern world.oops i forgot to mention too that Keun and Joseph Roth were an item for a while in the late '30's.
Weimarer Republik: Die junge Schreibkraft Doris träumt von einem glamourösen Leben als Filmstar in der Großstadt.
Doch wie kommt ein ungebildetes Unterschichtenmädchen aus der Provinz dort hin?
Ein Talent hat Doris: Sie ist die Frau der tausend Masken, die Männern immer das vorspielen kann, wonach sie sich am meisten sehnen.
Im Gegenzug regnet es Geschenke aus jener Luxuswelt, deren Teil Doris werden möchte.
Dass sie sich dabei bald nicht mehr nur in der Nähe der Prostitution bewegen wird, wird Doris schließlich schmerzlich erfahren.
Große Kunst an diesem Text ist vor allem die Sprache der (nur scheinbar) naiven Doris.
Ich möchte euch mit diesen Rezensionen zeigen, dass Klassiker auch toll sein können und da besondere Bücher auch besondere Rezensionen erfordern, werde ich die Rezensionen der Klassik Edition anders aufbauen als alle anderen.
Viele von euch haben jetzt sicher das Bild einer erfolgreichen Karrierefrau im Kopf, die Familie, Job und Freizeit perfekt unter einen Hut bekommt und dabei auch noch sehr erfolgreich ist.
Die Protagonistin Doris war nicht meins und genau das hat mir den Roman sehr verdorben.
Deshalb bekommt Das kunstseidene Mädchen von mir nur 3 von 5 Füchschen, da ich mit Doris einfach so gar nicht klar kam.
Zwar finde ich es ganz interessant, was Keun mit dem Werk aufzeigen will, aber die Art und Weise, wie das umgesetzt wird, sagt mir einfach nicht zu.
Die Protagonistin Doris schreibt das Geschehene in einem Tagebuch nieder, aber es fühlt sich mehr wie ein konfuser innerer Monolog als eine kohärente Erzählung an.
Immer wieder werden die Sätze mit Gedankenstrichen unterbrochen, es gibt grammatische Fehler aufgrund Doris' mangelnder Bildung, und überhaupt gibt es keine rechte zeitliche Verortung, sondern nur einen Haufen Namen, von dem der eine unbedeutender als der andere ist.
Wie gesagt – ich verstehe, warum Keun das so geschrieben hat.
This book is about a girl, called Doris, who is dreaming to become a star. The weird thing is, I never found her effort to become one! The whole story is literally Doris meeting men, or beautifying herself to attract a man, sleeping with them, earning money, and jumping to the next man. Seriously. And Doris is so materialistic and judgemental. I didn't like her at all. A fairly good book, but one that is a one time read for me.
As the man said, she got to use what she got to get just what she wants.But at the same time, we're talking about a Berlin that is going to start to go under in a very big way.
As the introduction points out, Doris isn't stupid but she's dimly aware of the political upheaval that is coming, as were many Germans, until it was too late.
There are times when Doris mentions seeing some political speeches that she doesn't understand and some newspaper headlines that mean little to her.
Doris is, in her own way, politically conscious.
4.5 StarsReputedly inspired by Anita Loos’ Gentleman Prefer Blondes, Keun set out to write a response from the German perspective, one that ultimately shows us the darker side of life which lies beneath the glamour of the capital city, Berlin.First published in 1932, Silk Girl is narrated by Doris, a striking young woman whose voice I found utterly engaging right from the very start.
Doris longs for the finer things in life, fashionable clothes and accessories, the bright lights and the big city.
Instead, she’s stuck in a provincial town, in a dead-end office job she’s barely qualified for, trading on her charms and good looks to keep on the right side of the boss.
Sex and the City (hvis det hadde kommet ut i 1933). Gøy!
a quick read, a faux memoir, very direct voice, a good window into 30s germany thru a working-class girl's eyes, lots of universal themes. i really enjoyed it.
wie ein weiblicher chatcher in the rye...
2016: 2 Sterne 2018: 3 Sterne
The novel provides a fascinating snapshot of what life was like for a working girl in 1930s Berlin, but the best part about it is Keun's dry wit and incisive commentary on every page.Some examples:"a subway [is] like an illuminated coffin on skis.""That's what's important: how you react to someone while they're sleeping and not exerting any influence over you.""If you want to strike it lucky with men, you have to let them think you're stupid.""In my experience those who tell you immediately: 'You know, I'm such an introvert,' are anything but, and you can rest assured that they're going to tell you everything that's on their mind.""I know for a fact that those who 'always have to tell the truth' are definitely lying.""I was sad about not having gotten any political education.
Many slapstick antics follow as Ossi comes to realise -as many writers seemed to do in the interwar period- not only the sheer hypocrisy of the bourgeois double-standards of female morality, but also the frightening power of women in the emerging secular, consumerist, hedonistic culture of the epoch: the film dramatises the demands made on men (consistency, noblesse oblige, self-reliance, etc.) from which well-off woman of the period could escape.The vamp or the 'angel of perversity' (Remy de Gourmont), threatening the social order and embodying the dark recesses of the mind, was already a stock figure of the end of the XIXth century.
Die schönste Beschreibungen von glänzenden Berlin was ich je gelesen habe.
Doris ha voglia di vivere, di divertirsi, di brillare come una stella. Un diario per raccontarci le sue avventure, la sua fame di vita e d'amore. Una ragazza vivace e la sua voglia d'indipendenza.
And she's constantly denigrating fat people and considering them less worthy than other women simply because they’re fat; she does grow a bit at the end, and while she finds herself alone at times, she is still constantly looking for a man to help her out of her situation (while being under little illusion about what they can give her and what she can give them).Doris talks about her encounters with men, freely admits to stealing, talks about sex, about meeting prostitutes,living on a park bench, homelessness and a smattering of race politics, greed and falling in love in a rather chatty and adolescent tone, which makes the book a fairly easy read.
