https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301736.Guess_How_Much_I_Love_You
This is THE best bedtime story, in my opinion. It was a nightly ritual for my first daughter, and it holds a very special place in our hearts. When it says that the dad bunny leans down and kisses the little one's head, Leah would always lean down and kiss the picture. The page became a little scummy from kiddie goo, and it's PRECIOUS! I will forever cherish my little girl's kisses in the book.
This is one of only three board books that continuously survive the purge because I simply can't bear to move it out.
Beautifully illustrated, this story is so sweet that I have never been able to read the ending without a lump in my throat and a hitch in my voice.
How much do I love this book?
More importantly, how much do my children love this book?
5 stars.Update 2018: This once again has survived the year end, post-holiday purge.
So on my shelf in the living room it remains, where it continues to make my heart happy.
And I wonder if that was to put off going to bed?!
This is a good little book for my son as he does not sit still for a story, but as it's about what 'we' do at home ie., 'I love you to the moon and back' or 'I love you more, I love you 10, I love you 20' - yes this is what we say between bed and closed door as a way to say goodnight - anything that creates harmony around here is a good thing.
Recommended book for 2's through to the moon and back of age groups.
Can't the parent just let the kid win one? Even after kid falls asleep, the parent has to one-up the frustrated, exhausted child. Go pick on someone your own size!
One of the only books I can read to my daughter where the adult in the book is a male. Most of the books have no men or relegate the father to support-staff roles. Having said that, the book is really a testosterone-fueled look at the competitive indoctrination of little boys. Paraphrase of text:Kid: I love you as million.Dad: I love you a billion.Kid: Can't you let me win once?Dad: Only when you surpass my strength, then I will live vicariously through you. Despite this shortcoming, the illustrations are great. My daughter loves it.
Okay this is my favorite book in the whole wide world, so I was surprised to see the number of less than favorable reviews.To the guy that thinks (and I use that word liberally) that this book is a allegory for socialism, really?
That's what this book is about.I read this book to my daughter just last night and I've read it to her at least a hundred times.
Every time I do, when I flip that last page and read the final sentence, I nearly cry.
That's why this is my favorite book in the whole wide world!
This may be my least favorite children's book that I've read to the kids.
Guess How Much I Love You turns loving each other into a competition - and one where the child can never win against the parent.
I like the idea of parent and child loving each other a lot, but this is so, so wrong of a way to communicate that theme.
It just made me uneasy to read it.
Ms. K only had to read it to her kids once, before she got rid of it.
She felt the same way about it that I did.
Nice illustrations. But the tone of the book doesn't strike me as particularly nice. I've known people who always have to win, and they're generally not pleasant to be around. The father figure's need to get in the last word even after the son is asleep reminds me of those unpleasant people, and makes me want to avoid this book.
"I love you right up to the moon- and back."I remember reading this book with my mom when I was little. I found it on sale at my bookstore and bought to so I can read it to my future kids. <35/5 stars!
Adorable. Little back and forth about who loves the other more.
Té schattig dit verhaal!
Mit seinen Armen will er ihm zeigen, wie groß die Liebe sein kann, also streckt er sie weit von sich.
Manchmal sind es die ganz simplen Geschichten, die das Herz berühren, und hier ist so eine niedliche Art von Freundschaft und Familiensinn dargestellt, dass ich am Ende einige Tränchen der Rührung verdrückt habe.
Der kleine Hase will dem großen Hasen nämlich zeigen, wie sehr er ihn lieb hat.
Dieses Buch zeigt eindrucksvoll, wie weit Liebe reicht und dass sie keine Grenzen kennt.Die Altersempfehlung bei diesem Buch beträgt drei Jahre, wobei ich denke, dass man auch hier schon mit jüngeren Kindern ansetzen kann.
Setiap ayah yang punya anak harus membaca buku ini!
Sweet bahkan saat saya menceritakan inti cerita kepada ayah, sampai berkaca-kaca sendiri :pIntinya tentang percakapan anak kelinci yang ingin memamerkan dirinya kepada sang ayah betapa ia mencintainya.
Sang anak melompat.
Anak tidak kehilangan akal ia membentangkan tangannya, eh ternyata tangan ayah lebih panjang juga.
Akhirnya ia punya akal, "Dad, i love right up to the moon!' dan ia jatuh tertidur karena kelelahan.Saat sang anak sudah tertidur, ayah kelinci menciumnya dan berkata, " I love you to the moon and back"Ah. Indahnya.
Jadi pengen peluk-peluk daddy :) I love you, dad.
At risk of offending, I kind of really hate this smug Daddy trying to compete with his son the whole time.
Why is it so important to him to show his son that he's bigger and more powerful (at loving, I know, I know, but the point stands) all the time?
Just let the kid love you big and give him right back atcha.
How frustrated that little nutbrown hare must feel.
I think this is a book for parents not for children.
However, Anita Jeram's illustrations are absolutely lovely so props to her and I'm going to find more of her work.
Definitely one of my favorite childhood books.
I HATE this book. What is the message? No matter what the little bunny tries to do, the father bunny has to one-better it. ARGH. I refuse to read this to my child anymore.
*3.5 stars* This book is a very cute and happy; it gives a warm feeling to those reading it. The illustrations and the text work very nicely together. I enjoyed reading it with my little cousins.
A shot of insulin, please!
Sam McBratney's Guess How Much I Love You has lots of saccharine in it—but not to a point it’s cloying, just something that a dreamland-bound kid would surely enjoy.
See, there’s no plot of any kind, just a pair of adorable, furry hares (I think they’re father and son) engaging in an equally cute contest on who loves the other more.
I heard there’s a collection of this, and kid or not—geez I just turned twenty!—I’ll be glad to have them all.
I might read them to my own kids in the future.
This is a sweet story where the big bunny (maybe a daddy bunny?--nice touch as there are relatively few books with dads) and the little bunny try to express how much they love one another. The ending phrase seemed a bit trite but perhaps it's because I have heard the phrase so much now, on everything from t-shirts to wall art, that it seems cliche. Not sure if this book was the first one to use it...?
OK--I don't get this book. I just picked it up at a thrift store, feeling like Jackson is probably missing out on a major rite of passage if he doesn't read this as a toddler, but I don't get it. So the big nutbrown hare has to outdo the little nutbrown hare every time? It's a competition, is it? Sure, it's pretty and all, but someone needs to explain to me why this is a classic. Is my Mom card going to be revoked for saying that?
This is one of the best night time children's stories ever. Beautiful story and illustrations.Love this children's book. Recommended.
Yes, another bunny book... We loved this one to the moon and back ;)
I love this book to the moon and back. Also I love my mommy as much as the moon and back.
✩ 5 Stars ✩ “. . . to the moon — and back.” ♡
What a sweet story! The illustrations are adorable too.
Maravilloso cuento para lectura nocturna. Sin duda, es mi favorito: el amor sencillo, sin condiciones, sin complicadas reglas, completamente desinteresado... ¿Se puede puntuar con 7 estrellas? ;D
Een van mijn favoriete prentenboeken allertijden
It is so sweet and cute you all of you guys out there should read this book young and old.
We read this to our first newborn in 1999 and to all of our children since.3/2/2018 Read with Julia.
The latter responds by hopping so high that his ears touch the highest branches of the trees and he tells LNH that is how much he loves him!So LNH decides that he will try another strategy and he says, 'I love you all the way down the lane to the river' to which BNH responds with 'I love you across the river and over the hills.' LNH thinks that is very far and feels sleepy with all the thought he has put in.
