https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770051.Olivia
Olivia does remind me of my niece. She wears me out some days too. But she has a boundless imagination. This was a good story with a now well loved character.The niece has outgrown this book and she didn't even want to read it. The nephew likes Olivia and he enjoyed reading it.I do like when some famous art work was thrown in at a museum.
Anyway, Olivia was an invaluable friend during that year.Last Christmas, I went shopping with the grandma of the kids, who we'll call "Mima." Mima told me that she had been Christmas shopping that day with the girl, and they had come across something that made the girl exclaim, "Mima, that's Miss Meri's favorite!" (This family requires Miss and Mr. before any adult names, which I personally find really creepy.
That's not your real name." I had to shamefully admit she was right, and we compromised with Miss Meri.) Back to the story - Mima suggested they buy this favorite thing for me as a Christmas present, and the girl agreed.
“Olivia” is a Caldecott Honor Book by Ian Falconer which is about the adventures of an energetic girl piglet named Olivia who does all kinds of activities that tires her family out!
I loved the way that Ian Falconer based this book on his real family life as he actually has an older sister named Olivia who loved doing many things and he is the younger brother in this book, which made this book extremely memorable.
Olivia is a girl (illustrated as an adorable pig) who is ready to try anything and everything.  She dreams big, wears others out and eventually wears herself out.  These stories are about family dynamics, joyful growing up years and wonderful adventures. The books are beautifully illustrated, whimsical, and witty.  Olivia is a character to love and read repeatedly.
During that QT, we read this book together.
Or rather, I read the book to him, and he tested it out for edibility.
And while he seemed to enjoy it (he's one - his bar is pretty low right now), I personally expected something better, especially considering how freaking popular this book is.
But I think that the popularity is mainly because of the mommies who can relate to being worn out by their kids: having to clean their paintings off the walls; having to pick up every single article of previously-clean clothing that someone had to try on before deciding on something to wear; etc.
I expected something of a storyline, and got instead a random day filled with random acts of kid stuff.
We went through a long Olivia phase here at the Weeks household. Sweet and slyly witty, with a dash of haute couture, and a lot of well-loved but misbehaving child, these books are just great. (Take note that I think Ian Falconer sold off the rights to this series. There are several by him, and then a bunch by Nickelodeon or something. My review only holds for the originals by Ian Falconer.)
Thanks to some rave reviews from GoodReads friends, I decided to meet Olivia! I admit she did not look like the sort of piggy I would usually welcome into my library--but I was being judgmental by looking at the exterior and I'm glad I gave her the chance to share her true spirit with me. What a delight! Love her creativity and humor.
1 October, 2001Olivia is pure, unmitigated awesome. I love her energy, her enthusiasm, her style, and her sand sculptures. I love the way she carries her cat around. I love her icons. I love her, even though she wears me out.Also, I love Falconer's style.
Pepo - povuci se u ilegalu. Olivija je prase kakvo ti nikada nećeš biti. Ona slika, ona igra balet, ona gradi kule od peska na plaži i tera mamu da joj čita po pet knjiga pred spavanje. Ide u muzej i ima psa i crnog mačka.Fak jea, Olivija!
Our Olivia was kind enough to share this book with me an introduce me to this lovely character. I enjoyed it immensely and fell in love with the little piglet. I never paid any attention to picture books but from now on, I will, because it seems like I missed out.
Let's remember that Olivia first and foremost represents a child.
I understand that there needs to be more strong female characters for our daughters to admire but I am so sick of hearing that girl characters such as Olivia, Dora, etc are for girls.
If you really want to empower woman; let your SON learn that girls can be worthy of admiration.Having said that, I found Olivia to be in need of much more than a time out and I really don't see what all the fuss is about.
<3
Olivia, winner of the Caldecott Honor, takes home the prize with black, white and red color schemes, simplistic but fun drawings that carry the story so much farther than the text alone.Written and illustrated by Ian Falconer, this book is another great example of personification, allowing children to see animals in a different light.
I love how the Falconer uses red against the monotone colors to really make the subject of his sentences pop!
The unique style of the illustrations coupled with the relatable story of life through such young lenses makes this a great book for young readers!
She has a little brother named Ian would sometimes will just not leave her alone.
Throughout the story, Olivia does many different activities that she loves to do.
The story does not have very many words and it is told more so through the pictures, showing all the things that Olivia enjoys to do each day.
It is for a very young reading level and children can almost create their own story through their imaginations using the pictures.
It is a story that most little kids can relate to because the activities that Olivia loves are often what children love to do.
Olivia is simple yet it has a charm to it and captures humor that draws the reader in of all ages.
Olivia is a little girl pig that is never sleepy and gets into paint, tries on every outfit in her closet, wants to read multiple books and is always moving about the house.
The illustrations in Olivia are black and white with splashes of red that draws the readers attention to important details within the picture.
I would read this book for K-5 because I think this is a classic that children of all ages will love and enjoy the illustrations.
adorable! and the girl loved it!
This is my little girl's favorite book. I guess Olivia reminds her of herself!
Love this book! My youngest daughter and I read it all the time :)
Moreover, the cartoon-like drawings of Olivia and her family accentuate the playful, and comical mood Falconer desires.ColorAlthough the illustrations are simplistic, Falconer achieves his desired effect by emphasizing the stark contrast between charcoal black and gray, and two gouche colors: red and black against a background that is usually white.Falconer’s use of red highlights Olivia’s importance.
The settings are minimalistic in this book because Olivia is the “main attraction.”Shape Aside from his drawings of Olivia and her family, Falconer employs straight edges or lines, which meet at angles and create three-dimensional shapes.
Well, you just know, and from the first time I picked up Olivia by Ian Falconer back in October 2000 in Creatures and Crooks Bookstore, I knew instantly that this book was destined for great things.
But I digress.Olivia by Ian Falconer has become a children's classic since its release back in 2000.
To answer my original question...I guess one way to know a children's classic is that both children and adults like the book.
It goes something like this, "I will read Olivia if you pick another book for us to try." So far, we are slowly adding to her lists of favorites, but this one still remains number one.

The words themselves can infer many meanings, but the pictures make these meanings clear.
When her mother sees that she's had enough, they go home"; this could mean Olivia is simply tired of being at the beach, but the silly picture drawn by the text illustrates that Olivia is actually badly sunburnt and mom has declared it time to leave.
Another page states: "Sometimes Ian just won't leave her alone, so Olivia has to be firm", and the picture shows Olivia wearing a scary mask; the meaning of being firm could have been very confusing for children, but with the aide of illustrations children have a better chance of learning the meaning of the word firm.
Last semester I wrote quite a few reading lesson plans. Today, I taught my first “official” lesson—reading or otherwise—to my small group of first-graders, and the lesson was on this book. Olivia by Ian Falconer is really very darling. My focus skill was drawing conclusions & the impact of the illustrator, because the illustrations are an integral part of learning about Olivia’s big personality. I was just thrilled that the students were pleased enough with the four-year-old piglet that they were able to grasp the concept of drawing conclusions and shined in my extension activity of creating their own illustrations.
I still can't quite understand what all the commotion is about this book!
We received it as a shower gift as my daughter's name is Olivia, and only recently have I picked it up and started reading it to her.
Not only is the humor geared towards adults, but my daughter has no clue what's going on.
The only positive I can think of is the fact that this is a board book and can be thrown and munched as many times as anyone pleases without utter and complete destruction of the pages...unfortunately.
The book tells us about a typical day in the life of Olivia, a little piglet that is full of personality and lots of energy. She loves to do many things which wears out not only her family, but herself as well. Although the illustrations are predominantly in black and white with little color, the reader will get a great visual of Olivia throughout her day. I really enjoyed this book due to Olivia's love for adventure and enjoying her young life. This is a great book for young ones, especially girls.
As picture books go, you can't do much better than the thoroughly charming "Olivia". The young pig is sure to endear herself to you with her winning personality and excess of sass. I have given this book as a gift many times and it has always been a winner. I have recommended it to countless people in the bookstore I work at and it has never failed me. The other books in the series are, for the most part, equally delightful, but none of them quite match the spirit of the first one for me.
This is the kind of book that makes me want to have a kid. It makes me yearn for the days when my brothers and sisters were busy little three and four year olds, going about all of their very important business. So, so cute.
I love Olivia. She's original and always captivating.
Before the books got ruined with a kids show
Olivia the pig is my spirit animal.
