https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123673.A_Case_of_Conscience
He was well ahead of his time.In a nutshell, a Jesuit priest is a part of an advance party reconnaissance mission to scout out whether an alien world is suitable for human colonization.
And the premise for a damn fine science fiction novel.The similarities with Mary Doria Russell’s 1996 novel The Sparrow will make most readers of both realize to what extent Russell patterned her work after Blish’s 1958 book.
A Case of Conscience also contains mythic symbolism that further deepens the narrative tone.Finally, this 1959 Hugo Award winner is yet another classic science fiction work that clearly influenced the producers of the James Cameron film Avatar.A must read for sci-fi / fantasy fans.
One of the most agreeable conceits of the novel is that Christ is not recognized by anyone, and is never explicitly identified; it's only when you get to the book's final sentence that Blish comes clean, and even then he phrases it cryptically.
It's genuinely tragic.Poor Blish always seems to have been in a hurry; except in a few short stories, and perhaps in Black Easter, he never had time to sit down and get it right.
In the process, he causes a massive rebellion among the stir-crazy people of Earth, who are suffering from the psychosis of living underground.At the same time Ruiz-Sanchez is brought before the Pope fore heresy, since his suggestion that Satan created Lithia to undermine God is a form of Manichaeism, a religion that posits a struggle between equally-matched good and evil.
The Pope points out that Ruiz-Sanchez may have been deceived by the Lithians (and by extension Satan) and that he should have performed an exorcism of the planet!
4.5 stars.
I am a big fan of James Blish.
This book is an expansion of the earlier novella of the same name.
Part 1 of the book (i.e., the original novella) is a 6.0 star story and is extremely powerful.
Part 2, while good, is not as exceptional and brings the overall rating for the book down to 4.5 stars.
Overall, still a highly recommended read.
[Reread on March 1, 2010:].
Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1959)Nominee: British Science Fiction Award (Retro) for Best Novel (1958)Voted to Locus List of All Time Best Science Fiction Novel (1975)
Sure, modern readers may or may not care for the religious argument bent, but it is concise and beautiful as hell and it's ONLY THE SETUP.Move ahead, take the freely offered gift of one of the lizard young back to a future earth gone schizophrenic, living underground in perpetual fear of nuclear holocaust and ready to tear itself apart.
Have one of these christ-like lizards grow up knowing nothing but the monstrosity that humanity has become, and because of the peculiar brilliance of his race and his deeply frustrated sense of being as much an outsider as practically everyone else living on Earth, he speaks and breaks all the rules and becomes a pundit much, much worse than anything Trump has to offer, sparking chaos on a truly amazing scale.
It's true that the cynic is very unsympathetic, really downright despicable, but Blish makes it clear that his viewpoint is meant to have a degree of validity (even if mistakes are clearly made...)In short, it's a book that's very simple to read and somewhat complex to think about.
That the interpretation of the final events range from salvation to a horrifying mistake is a clear indicator that there is more going on here than the simple plot and characters which are somewhat offensive to our sophisticated modern palate.
A great thank you to James Blish and Open Road for the opportunity to read this book and offer an unbiased review.In the distant future a science team explores the planet Lithia.
The team includes the Jesuit priest, Ruiz-Sanchez.
The planet seems just too good to be true.Once back on Earth with prime samples, investigation continues.
I couldn't help but sing,"there's no earthly way of knowing which direction we are going..." It was spot-on Wonka.As this life form grows in popularity, Ruiz-Sanchez continues to see the seed of evil-"half-naked, commanding money, fathering lies, poisoning discourse, compounding grief, corrupting children, killing love, building armies".
A 4-member team is sent to Lithia for the purpose of making a recommendation on whether to admit the planet to the League of Nations.
This part is very good and raises excellent points for consideration.The second part is focused on the development of the Lithian "child," which takes place in a United Nations laboratory.
(Missing is any explanation on why the Lithians allow the UN to send Pete to undertake experimentation.) This part is not as focused as the first part and the development of the Lithian child as a character is quite weak.As other reviewers have commented, there are similarities between this book and The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russell.
this book however, after a very promising start, fizzles out completely.the first third of the book, set on the planet of lithia, 58 light years from earth, is sf writing almost at it's finest.
the 4 main characters from earth are introduced and the description of the planet and it's alien inhabitants is very well done.the rest of the book is set back on earth and just never really gets going anywhere.
the actual ending of the book is mildly interesting, although somewhat predictable given some of the events that took place earlier in the book.
This half lacks the first half's focus, jumping across interesting but incomplete ideas, with some unbelievable developments in the process.A Case of Conscience is a fascinating but uneven work, a bit dated and clunky, and while its philosophical-theological debates are complex, they don't make for a stimulating read.
Fans of '50s SF and those trying to read every Hugo winner should also be interested, but be warned: books that resonated in the genre back in the day don't always remain as impactful or insightful 60 years later.A Case of Conscience is important for being one of the earliest "serious" SF genre novels to try and examine philosophical/religious issues, though I think it left me with more questions than answers.Full review, and more classic SF reviews, on my blog.
In the second half, the plot gets even weirder.Some books I read on the wrong day.
As far as I can tell, this is the story of a perfectly nice planet, completely screwed over by idiotic humans, who bring their baggage with them everywhere.
Also, there are completely obvious science-fictional explanations for the behavior of the Lithians, and the characters are too stupid to see them.The first half of the book was originally published as a novella, and is not bad, if dated and melodramatic.
The humans are given a Lithian egg to take back with them to Earth.
The first half of the book, originally a 1953 novella, is a very good story of the evaluation of a planet with intelligent life by a commission of four gentlemen with differing goals.
These bits of sci-fi are needed for the ultimate ending of the book, and feel forced.The conclusion, without spoilers, is interesting.
While I appreciated the combination of religion and politics, the piecemeal nature of this book was jarring.
The first half by itself would rate 4-5 stars, but I can't (in good conscience) rate the entire book so highly.
As I read the first part of this novel I really enjoyed the thought put into world of Lithia, the debate between the 4 scientists about how to classify the planet and the deception of one of those scientists. But moving into the second part of the novel Lithia, the relationship of the 4 scientists and the deception is moved into the background. In its place, we follow a Lithian's life (and its oddly growing fame) on Earth. It felt like two completely separate stories, and I would have preferred to go deeper into the first part.
I might see what he saw; a planet of temptation by the Adversary, an anti-Christ sort of figure, and the fulfillment of God's will as detailed by my faith and my church.On the other hand, from a purely rational point of view (which I also hold, being a rational Pagan,) this is clearly a situation of self-fulfilling prophecy, and humans are the force of darkness in this piece.Could both things be true?
My faith would not have seen the things this Jesuit priest saw.
After beginning, I expected something along the lines of The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russel wherein a Catholic priest is an early visitor to another planet with intelligent life (Lithia in this case) and returns to Earth to face inquisition and possible excommunication.
If book 2 of this novel had been written by Philip K Dick, I perhaps would have been better prepared for the weirdness of events that occurred after the crew returned (view spoiler)[bringing with them the fetus of a Lithian.
(hide spoiler)]I really don't know what to think of this novel.
p.s. Don’t read the forward by Greg Bear as it gives the novel away.UPDATE: Ok, I was asked why I did not do an extended review, so I am back to address my failure(s).
The writing was good, the aliens were kind of alien but not, the moral dilemma conceived by one man was not enough to astound or even develop a belief that could shake ones foundations to the extent portrayed.
The Jesuit's inclinations and thoughtful summaries were plagued with biased world views which was the foundation of the novel.
In the first half, it tells the story of a four-man expedition to planet Lithia where the dominant species, the Lithians, are civilized, intelligent, peaceful, and just so damned nice.
A Lithian called Chtexa gives Father Ruiz-Sanchez a parting gift of a sealed jar containing an egg which will grow into an adult Lithian, which looks something like:, or perhaps:Anyway, you get the idea, dino looking chaps***.The second half of the book shifts the narrative to a dystopian Earth, where most people live decadent lives—but underground—just in case there is a nuclear attack.
It is sci fi with a strong grounding in science, but it is more interested in social and personal conflict than in gadgets, astronomy, or space warfare.
This is the first book I’d ever read by James Blish, but I had heard before that he wrote books that dealt with Christian theology in a sci fi setting and assumed that they would be boring propaganda.
These questions might not seem all that interesting to a sci fi fan looking for rollicking action, but for those with an intellectual temperament, Blish handles the conflict well.
i expected something more cerebral, but was pleasantly surprised.
Storyline: 1/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 2/5So you want to write a speculative fiction novel.
At times, Blish seems to employ the first approach to speculative fiction: generate a scientific discovery irreconcilable with religious doctrine.
It has its own sense of urgency and justice, but it was disconnected from the premise.Elsewhere, Blish clearly wants to employ the second approach to speculative fiction: investigate the inner workings of faith and doctrine and their incongruity with newfound science.
(hide spoiler)]I've seen it remarked that this was one of the first speculative fiction novels.
Appointed by the Earth government to assess an alien race on another planet, Ruiz-Sanchez the Jesuit concludes the Lithians are too perfect to be the work of his God because they lack original sin.
Love, which I believe is primary to the best expression of all the world's major religions, is often lacking in the characters of this book.
Ruiz-Sanchez the Jesuit feels a dispassionate love, but he is constrained by the orthodoxy of his Church.
How each of these men feels love (or not) and defines Good versus Evil depends on his world view.
I would challenge anyone who reads this book to define Good and Evil in this story for himself/herself.
A CASE OF CONSCIENCE. (1958). James Blish. ****. Although this novel was one of those included in The Library of America’s “American Science Fiction 1956-1958,” it managed to reach beyond the traditional trappings of that genre and explore subjects not normally in that domain. I was not familiar with either the author or the specific title. The author, James Blish (1921-1975), was a fairly prolific writer in this area, though primarily of shorter fiction. This novel won the Hugo Award in 1959. T
Although this novel was one of those included in The Library of America’s “American Science Fiction 1956-1958,” it managed to reach beyond the traditional trappings of that genre and explore subjects not normally in that domain.
The author, James Blish (1921-1975), was a fairly prolific writer in this area, though primarily of shorter fiction.
Four men from Earth have been sent to Lithia to explore it and its resources and to make a judgement as to whether or not it is worthy of being asked to join the federation of worlds.
I don't think a mere summary would do it any sort of justice, but I'll give it a shot.The Lithians seem to be a perfect society...
a baby Lithian, for the humans to raise to help foster understanding.They do so, and he(Egtverchi by name) turns out to be a rabble rouser of the first order, touching off the powder keg that Earth had become...
he escapes on a ship back to Lithia, where the UN had decided to allow the planet to be used for energy collection experiments..
As Father Ruiz (from Earth) watches the ship land...
It was like taking one of the old scifi movies, say Forbidden Planet and comparing it to something more modern, even Star Wars.The premise is that Earth has found a planet inhabited by intelligent beings (in this case 12 foot tall lizards) who have the technology for intercontinental flight, but almost no metal.
These beings live on a perfect planet, and the main Jesuit question is whether it is a Garden of Eden planet (without Original Sin) or whether it is all an aspect of Satan.The Catholic theology is all based on ancient theology first "invented" by primitive men more than 1000 years before the heliocentric theory was even considered.
I loved the idea behind this book - what happens when a Christian, a Jesuit no less, finds a new planet of aliens who live without sin - yet have no knowledge of God. How would it affect his faith?
If the paradise planet really was a creation of the devil, then there are a lot more interesting stories could have come out of it - actually, thinking back on it, the demonic alien talk show host was also a nice idea, but you don't realize he really is an agent of the devil till the end of the book.
I hated this book. Perhaps because I couldn't understand how anyone could make the repulsive statement that morality is impossible without religion. I found that concept insulting.Since so many like it and it won a Hugo, perhaps the fault lies within myself.So be it.
3.5 stars. Excellent part one, fumbled and strange part two. Well worth reading, especially since it is reminiscent of/influenced The Sparrow and Canticle for Leibowitz.
This is a cautionary tale about mans second expulsion from the "Garden of Eden." Guess who ends up being the snake this time, you guessed it, its the humans.
After Agronsky siding with Cleaver's ridiculous suggestion of "turn the place into a bomb factory so we can blow up aliens" (along with a long, LONG trail of deception) and Michelis's suggestion of "open it wide and let's teach them about quantum mechanics," Father Ramon goes in a third direction.
No big deal, Father, just exorcise the planet!Michelis bursts in to the next chapter mentioning how Cleaver (the physicist) managed to pull off his idea of using Lithia for bombs, and that he had some "special experiment" to do.
They are also innately moral beings who have no religion, and no sense of, or need for, God. This somehow makes them creatures of Satan, and throws Father Ruiz-Sanchez into the Manichean heresy, and puts his immortal soul in danger.
The priest has a dilemma; one of his co-investigators sees the planet as a crapton of resources for nuclear weapons for Earth.
At any rate, the creature on earth causes a lot of disruption, and Bad Things Happen.Father Ruiz-Sanchez is told he needs to exorcise the whole planet of Lithia.
