https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70912.The_Dice_Man
4As the author of this book already said,Never create an option on which you don't want to bet.So now I am stuck with having to write a review in rhyme :-( But imagine having the dice control your life every single timeFor that is what Dr. Rhinehart in this book sets out to doThe dice control what he eats, when he sleeps, when he goes to the loo.
In his eyes the dice will liberate mankindAnd though in itself this is quite an interesting find,The book is just too long and has too much sex for my tasteI would have preferred it shorter and a bit more chaste.So though I enjoyed it and liked the principle idea,Out of 5 this book for me scores only a simple 3.
Author Too in Love with his Own Concept to See the Gaping Blindspots This is a novel which was recommended to me by friends as "if you liked Fight Club you'll love this." Though I can see the comparison, I liked Fight Club and I really didn't like this one. Fight Club was lean and taut, this was bloated and outdated - like some lecherous late middle-aged guy you run in to at a party, who proceeds to trap you in a conversation you’d rather not be in. Once I started reading I discovered that my f
Like, so totally awesome that the narrator throws away most of his established life in the process of following this dumb idea of the roll of the dice.
Nevermind this square life where you don't rape your neighbours - this dude's living free!
It's the same dumb TV logic which sees cops only catching the murderer once they're suspended from the case.This book is a big-assed brick of a novel, and if you're not charmed and amused by the narrator, or if you're not into the machismo - yet lack of sense of self (ie personality or scruples) - which the narrator character enthuses about for most of the book, it's going to be a trudge.I wonder how different my reading of this might have been if I'd read it in social context when it came out in 1971 (the same year as the Stanford Prison Experiment, as it so happens).
He sees a die lying under a playing card, and a thought comes into his head: if it's a one, I'll rape Arlene.
In particular, they are encouraged to assume that, when they have sex with someone, it's because they decided to do it, for good reasons that they thought about carefully.But if you're honest with yourself, you probably won't have much trouble thinking of at least a couple of occasions when you've had sex with someone, or made another important decision, for no very good reason at all.
This book is awful.I don't know how it was a best seller in the 70's.The worst thing about it is that you can tell the author is enamored by his main character, who is a narcissistic imbecile.It's a childish, racist, homophobic rant by someone who's sexually frustrated.The end.
His standard existence up to this point has been described as comfortable, if a little banal, while the option of shattering it is an exciting possibility achieved through a completely amoral act: The rape of his neighbour's wife.It's a bold opening that would be hard to forget in any instance, but what's amazing is that Luke Rhinehart succeeds in creating a story that actually lives up to this moment.
Sure, you can have some exciting set pieces and stick them together with a bit of chewing gum and duct tape, but it takes a lot of talent to maintain a sense of momentum from one happening to the next.At no point in my reading of the Dice Man did I feel it lose its footing.
The reason why people are disappointed after reading this book must (or might) be because it's starting a bit slow; you probably won't get completely hooked until somewhere in, or after, the middle.
The people I recommend it to are those with unconventional philosophies about life and society, who indulges in conspiracy theories, the kind of person who's just not mainstream.I read it during my late teenage years, when I was completely confused about exactly everything.
It's a manifestation for how you really DO get to choose and create everything about yourself and your life.
Usually, no matter how dull a book gets, I plough on to the end in hope of a revival 3/4 of the way through, but of The Dice Man, 140 pages were all I could bear before it was thrown in a charity shop bag.
On reading the back of the book I had high hopes - the concept sounded fantastic, really interesting and fun - I thought I'd found a real page-turner.
Without going into too much detail (I've wasted enough time on this book already!!) I found the thoughts, actions and justifications of Luke Rhinehart utterly ridiculous - so much so I rolled my eyes and cringed on reading some of it.
The case of six sided man!If that dice has a 'one' face up, I'm going downstairs to rape Arlene.
Let the dice decide, who am I to question the dice?It's the story of a man that became a dice man.
he starts consulting with the dice for everything, every single decision.
he sacrificed all of his life to dice will.
So he became a random man.
A man without pattern, without habit, without self, without ego.
totally unpredictable.It's an unbelievable, amazing , unmoral and sexy story of the diceman.
He tried everything, rape, murder, robbery, spirituality, womanizing, being gay even being a woman.
In addition, in contrast to Southern’s Guy Grand, who is wealthy and can afford to lose money, Rhinehart frequently experiences real loss as a result of his dice-throwing, and is almost always at risk of losing more.The novel half-seriously includes passages from “The Book of the Die,” a fictional work that comments on the “dicelife” in language that parodies the Bible.
I refer to this as “half-serious” because in fact the novel makes a strong argument that throwing dice to make decisions is just as sane and wise as any other method of determining one’s future actions.
Due to other reviews, let me first state that this is a heavily ironic, playful and darkly-humorous novel.
A work of fiction.
It is enjoyable as just this, but becomes even more interesting if you're familiar with the ideas of Nietzsche: as critique or affirmation?
It's actually hard to tell...
Rhinehart is playful with a whole range of ideas here, from morality to the modern notion of self.
He also matches the mood of the story to the style of the narration is very interesting ways.
The hero of this novel (sharing the author’s name) is a psychologist who, jaded and sunk into ennui, decides on a whim based on the turn of a die to “rape” (read: seduce) his colleague’s wife.
It reminded me of Robert Anton Wilson’s “reality tunnel” idea (found in, I think, Illuminatus!), where he encourages people to try the world views of others, including Nazis and perverts.
My feelings are best summarised by these quote from one of the characters in the book: “You know this hospital is a farce, but tragic, suffering—a tragic farce. You know there are nuts running this place—nuts!—not even counting you! [...] You know what American racism is. You know what the war in Vietnam is. And you toss dice! You toss dice!! [...]I’m leaving. Thanks for the pot, thanks for the silences, thanks even for the games, but don’t say another word about tossing your fucking dice, or I’
My feelings are best summarised by these quote from one of the characters in the book:
  “You know this hospital is a farce, but tragic, suffering—a tragic farce. You know there are nuts running this place—nuts!—not even counting you! [...] You know what American racism is. You know what the war in Vietnam is. And you toss dice! You toss dice!! [...]I’m leaving. Thanks for the pot, thanks for the silences, thanks even for the games, but don’t say another word about tossing your fucking dice, or I’ll kill you.”...
 More detailed review to follow
I am pretty sure 37v2 has used this method of decision-making for years, whereas others posit 40v2 and chaos theory. (view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I hate it more now.Essentially, the plot is that a psychotherapist (named Luke Rhinehart, as is the author of the book) is bored of his mundane life, and decides to improve it by assigning options to a 6-sided dice, rolling it, and then living his life according to the options.
Unfortunately, the options that Rhinehart assigns to the different sides of the dice are self-destructive and, quite often, inconsiderate and selfish (e.g. raping, killing, leaving his family).
There are few consequences or repercussions for the selfish behaviour that Rhinehart and the other dice-adherents exhibit, and I found the message of the book to be hollow and unsatisfying.
If I could give this negative stars, I would weigh it down so heavily it would sink to the bottom of the ocean, through the sea bed itself, and burn, burn, burn in the magma of the earth's core.This book is so badly written that it only attains one thing - it holds the prize for the greatest discrepancy between quality of the idea vs.
So bad in fact that the prominence it is always given in bookstores - because they know people will buy it based on the concept alone - irks me as I enter them.Avoid at all costs - a cliche-ridden piece of badly scrawled trash.
The idea itself sounds interesting, but after a couple of hundred pages, you feel you're losing some interest in the book, and you've come up with the idea itself. The concept of the book is ritualistic and makes you think it is an absolute genius, but it feels as if the writer is not a tree lover. Otherwise, it is difficult to explain why the original idea of the book documented in 440 pages, 300 of which feel superfluous and make you lose Interest. Note that there are quite a few pages that do
The idea itself sounds interesting, but after a couple of hundred pages, you feel you're losing some interest in the book, and you've come up with the idea itself.
The concept of ​​the book is ritualistic and makes you think it is an absolute genius, but it feels as if the writer is not a tree lover.
Otherwise, it is difficult to explain why the original idea of ​​the book documented in 440 pages, 300 of which feel superfluous and make you lose Interest.
Certainly not the world’s most unique of circumstances, but what drew my interest to her was what drew me to this book.There this person stood, drink in hand and no stranger to hobbies branded as unusual.
I naturally asked her how she came by such a fixation, and she told me; The Dice Man by Luke Rhinehart.
Reading through the pages as Luke Rhinehart leaves his self behind and transitions into The Dice Man is as exciting as it is unpredictable.
I could not wait to see what the dice would tell him to do next.Concept: + 10.00The character of Luke Rhinehart is a hard one to pin down.
In it's anarchic and comic way, the novel asks why we stick to the narrow scripted roles we're familiar with, when we have the ability to chose from a much wider range of life's possibilities?
Well, you've only heard half of it....It's funny in places, but not funny enough to stretch over 500 pages.
After the half way mark it becomes rather repetitious.
Yes, there is PLENTY of sex in this novel, but it's very technical and seriously UNsexy and after a while it's just boring...
It reminds me a little of Catch-22, but not half as good.
Hmmm, I'm really not sure about this one.What started off as rather interesting and highly amusing got rather flabby around the midsection, and the novelty of Luke's random adventures as Dice Man soon started to wear off.
All in all, like the choices made by the throw of the dice, this book turned out to be extremely random and messy, and ultimately unfulfilling.
this book fundamentally changed my perspectives on decision making, our roles in society, and the whole idea of the individual self.
Rhinehart suggests that the idea of the self is a crutch that pigeonholes us and prevents us from experiencing things that we would not experience if we were "being ourselves".
the premise of the book is that luke rhinehart, a psychologist, decides one day to make all his decisions based on the roll of the die.
excerpts from the book are in some of the songs.
this book - much like the music of at the gates - is fast paced and chaotic.
1. Solo puntuar la novela.2.
Reseña breve de menos de 50 palabras.
3. Reseña de entre 100 y 200 palabras.4.
Reseña rimada.5.
Reseña buena porque sí.6.
Reseña mala porque sí.Lanzo el dado...
Me ha gustado bastante, pero 'El hombre de los dados' es una novela con mucha paja.
La idea de partida es buena, un personaje que rige toda su vida por los designios que unos dados que lo acompañan allá donde va, pero me quedo con la sensación de que el autor ha estado dando vueltas una y otra vez sobre los mismos tópicos.
What an ingenious idea.
In fact I'm surprised no one thought of this earlier.Psychiatrist Luke Rhinehart bored with life so he devises a scheme where all his life decisions are taken up by choosing twelve options and rolling a pair of dice.
Some of the options range from simple choices to killing his son.
As the word spreads Rhinehart gains a cult following and then things go from weird to bizarre, the overblown ending is akin to an action film.The Dice Man is a good book of ideas.
It screams cult classic.
Dude explains to you his greatest idea, which he finds very clever.
It's an amazing concept!
IT CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE!''Mhm', you nod, and you smile.
You look at your watch.
It's amazing!
Everyone should try it!''Why don't we talk about something else?' you suggest, on the verge of a nervous breakdown.Dude agrees, and proceeds to talk about his sex life.
His sex life is awesome.
All women want to have sex with him.
You, too, will want to have sex with him before you know it.
You yawn and look at your watch again.
I love the concept and the central idea behind "The Dice Man".
This novel asks what if we stopped playing our scripted roles and opened ourselves up to other possibilities.
We contain multitudes.I love the first half of the book.
It explores the central idea in interesting and surprising ways.But then it proceeded to beat me over the head with that same idea for 200 more pages.
Didn't help that it got more misogynous and increased the stupidity of metaphors.
I got a bit tired by the end.Overall - I liked it, 3 stars.
Would've been 5 stars (amazing) after the first 200 pages.
RandomI can't believe I actually finished this book. I suppose at times we all wonder what it would be like to be totally unpredictable and random, so I thought this could be a great premise for a book. Good Idea, Bad Delivery!The storyline doesn't flow well, forget about characterisation, and I found it difficult to maintain any interest. Some of the events that the dice are used for are really uncomfortable.
I liked the concept better than the actual book
So, after carefully studying my options, I bought The Dice Man by Luke Rhinehart (which is a pen name - henceforth when I'm speaking about the author, I'll refer to him by his real name, George Cockcroft (yes, that is a ridiculous surname) to avoid confusion).
Thanks, ridiculously long commute!After convincing the at first reluctant woman (Arlene), the rape takes place with great pleasure and abandon from both parties, and Rhinehart's dicelife begins.** At first, Luke keeps his experiment limited to small, private, matters.
Luke Rhinehart (a pen name if ever I heard one) writes about Dr. Luke Rhinehart (a pretentious literary gimmick if ever I've seen one) who creates a therapy using dice to determine the person's action potentially exposing our illusion of free will, freeing the person from a destructive and controlling society, and destroying the ego (a popular pastime for the more extreme cultist ideas).
Sexual liberation was a big thing in the pre-AIDS days yet the author's sex scenes are for the most part, dull which equates it with the other big potboiler-disquised-as-wisdom book of the era, The Harrad Experiment.So, this reread simply didn't pan out well.
The book follows psychologist Luke Rhinehart who one day decides to dedicate his life to a die.
Through the course of the book he coverts others to his philosophy and creates followers called the dicepeople.There were a good few things I liked about this book.
There were also points of real drama and tension which hooked me, and overall the entire concept was so well thought out and developed that part of me was continuously stunned by what I was reading through the entirety of the novel, despite its flaws.What stopped me from loving this was that at times I found it incredibly dull.
This is one of those cult classics that you really do need to read.It’s a brilliant idea, very unique, and exceptionally easy to get into.
I found myself laughing much more than I should have been, unable to put the book down for any period of time.
I will say there are some uncomfortable moments (and a lot of sexual moments which will leave some people feeling uneasy) but as a whole it was a great book.Telling the story of Luke Rhinehart as he gives up his choice to the roll of the dice anything and everything seems to happen to him as the book progresses.
I’d most certainly recommend it to anyone who is looking for an entertaining read.
