https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816.Cryptonomicon
So sorry that the word 'Japanese' is too long and difficult for some people to say/type/convey to another person for long periods of time, but they're going to have to deal with it.
I would hope that everything that came before it is some kind of ridiculous satire, but if it is, Mr. Stephenson's writing did not seem to think so.Two: The definition of the words SEXUAL ABUSE and RAPE was expanded to include pursuit of relationships where 'power imbalance' is denoted by differences in economic status and/or physical capabilities in defending oneself.
Pretenses are shabby things that, like papier-mache houses, must be energetically maintained or they will dissolve.  Neal Stephenson has written an overlong novel focusing on the significance of cryptography both in the world today and the time of World War II. He links the two by using multiple family generations. The predecessors inhabit the early cryptographical universe of Turing and others, dealing with cracking German and Japanese cyphers. The latter family representatives are trying to d
Neal Stephenson has written an overlong novel focusing on the significance of cryptography both in the world today and the time of World War II.
The latter family representatives are trying to develop a secure cryptography that will support the creation of a global monetary system, based on gold stashed in the Philippines near the end of the war.
Neal Stephenson - from the LA TimesStephenson provides considerable payload here, providing details of cryptography then and now, and considerable analysis of gold as the basis for economic structures.
Review posted - February 17, 2017Published - May 1999PS - I received this book as a gift from a rocket-scientist nephew in 1999.
According to Stephenson in this very enjoyable, but lengthy book nerds won the Second World War and are keeping global society free from tyranny nowadays.
Neal Stephenson comes across like a geeky Jonathon Franzen, blending erudite sci-fi qualities with meticulously crafted characterizations and rolling all into a cocoon of an intricate plot almost as puzzling as the cryptograms that form the foundation of the story.
Comprising two related time lines that slowly blend together, Stephenson held my attention, sometimes making it difficult to put the book down.
Like Snow Crash, Cryptonomicon (with a title that is a nod to Lovecraft) works on multiple levels and establishes parallels between times and generations.
It doesn't accomplish anything else plot wise, but it’s the kind of scene that makes this book what it is.Even as a fan of the way he works, I still wish Stephenson could tighten some things up.
There’s one small supernaturalish element that gets it that reputation, but I’d call it historical-fiction if I had to put a genre on it.Even though this is a book that really shouldn’t work, the great thing about it is that it mostly does, and it’s just so damn clever at times that I can’t help but admire Stephenson.Related material: The Baroque Cyle is the follow-up/prequel to this that delves even further into the history of the Waterhouse and Shaftoe familes.
Fortunately for him, he is vastly smarter than me so while he was quite generously acting annoyed he was probably thinking to himself, "Maybe one day I will spoil math and engineering and the details of Riemann zeta functions for Conrad." Now I'm rereading it out of sympathy and it's even better than I remembered.Anyway, while I haven't yet approached the implosion that I know is coming toward the end, I am really even more impressed at the catholicity of Stephenson's concerns than I was the first time I read the book.
Reading this book was a lot like riding in a car that steadily picks up speed and then stalls out.
I wanted to like it a great deal more than I ended up doing.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
2015 reread: In World War II, Bobby Shaftoe is a Marine, and Lawrence Waterhouse is a cryptographer.
Neal Stephenson weaves together multiple plot threads, three during World War II and one in the present day, and produces a fine tapestry of a novel.On one hand, you have Randy Waterhouse, part of the Epiphyte corporation, a start-up dedicated to creating a data haven in the Phillipines.
The bits of history, cryptography, and the proper way to eat Captain Crunch all held my attention.In the years between my first read and this one, I'd forgotten how hilarious this book can be at times.
Which is nice.It's also a cack-handed way of saying I feel, in some way, like I shouldn't have felt at home?
The other reason is that it's NINE HUNDRED PAGES LONG AND NEAL STEPHENSON IS STILL TALKING.In the end, I put it aside often, but always came back.
Cryptonomicon.A >1000 page tech info-dump comfort read.
Along comes Corporal Bobby Shaftoe and Detachment 2702 to ram battleships into Sweden, plant fake listening outposts and search for morphine at every chance.In the late 1990s Randy Waterhouse, Lawrence's grandson, is setting up a tech business with an old buddy in the aims of setting up a data haven in a fictional asian sultanate.
The memories are still as fresh as last night's eleventh nighmare: ten plucky Nips in Suicide Charge!"Just kill the one with the sword first.""Ah," Reagan says, raising his waxed and penciled eyebrows, and cocking his pompadour in Shaftoe's direction.
Maybe a star for the number of laughs I got per 100 pages.
He does have some technical background (he drops Unix hints and anagrams the name of a supposed deity who dies and then later comes back w/ no explanation??) However, it's not enough “savoir faire” for any of the content to make sense.
If he hired a first yr EE student to clarify some basic principles, snipped about 500 pages and got some ritalin, this book might be tolerable.
Like many technical books or movies, I was utterly disappointed.
Think of this novel like a REALLY good war thriller (Red Storm Rising) that runs with three or four distinct story lines and about a dozen characters that jumps to another storyline every 6-1o pages.
It is also a fantastic historical war novel, focused on cryptography during WWII.
It seeemed a bit like Wouk's The Winds of War (except this book was strictly focused on areas mostly ignored by Wouk).
Finally, it was a well-paced gernational/family novel (see Roots or The Godfather).Anyway, it is a good book to read during the 2017-2018 boom (and perhaps bust) of cryptocurrency, since the 1997 portion of this novel deals A LOT with the establishment of a cryptocurrency (NOT a blockchain encrypted currency).
Peter Deutsch, can make you realise that software could be close to executable mathematics.Cryptonomicon is surprisingly similar to the previous paragraph, both as an analogy to the book, and for the useless use of computer-based qoute, just for the sake of it.To start with, this book is way....
Other than that, there is a lot of inner monologue, but hardly any glimpses into the actual "inner" parts, resulting in characters moving from one state of mind to another with little to no reasoning.This is a book that haven't decided whether it wants to be "techy" or about technology, resulting in parts "for the layman" and parts that demand some knowledge in computer tech to understand.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
But I also learned how to kick-back and enjoy the journey of a book – to stop waiting for the next plot development point to come along like clockwork.Months after reading 
helped me develop the right mindset to fully enjoy The Baroque Cycle, and if I didn’t have so many other books on my list, I’d be tempted to go back to 
Then, when we come round and sink them, the Germans will not find it suspicious."All of this secrecy resonates in the present-day story line, in which the grandchildren of the WWII heroes--inimitable programming geek Randy Waterhouse and the lovely and powerful Amy Shaftoe--team up to help create an offshore data haven in Southeast Asia and maybe uncover some gold once destined for Nazi coffers.
After 918 pages, that's not a good thing.Pros:1) It's a long book.
If you like to settle down to a long book, this will do.2) There is a strong pro-libertarian theme running throughout.3) Some of his writing is quite good, entertaining, thoughtful, fun, thought provoking, well done.4) He puts out some ideas that are really sharp.
If anything you feel a sense of gratitude for his skill and for his curiosity, and the manner in which he imparts complex ideas.Of all the authors I've ever read, I feel most strongly about Neal Stephenson because he has genuinely enriched my life and broadened my understanding and appreciation for history and ideas.One of the best scenes in this book follows the story of a Japanese man whose boat is blown up.
Aspire for fluency in geek speak? Is "Big Bang Theory" your idea of reality TV? Then I recommend this Moby Dick of nerd novels. Jay Clayton in his book  Charles Dickens in Cyberspace  calls this book the “ultimate geek novel” (pg. 204-211) and draws attention to the “literary-scientific-engineering-military-industrial-intelligence alliance” that produced discoveries in two eras separated by fifty years, World War II and the Internet age. That's a good concise summary of the book. Stephenson writ
However, the comedy routines would probably go over best in a college town where some physicists or mathematicians are present in the audience.My tech-geek friends read this book over ten years ago, and they all recommended it to me.
It wasn't available in audio format at the time, and I didn't want to invest the time required to read a book this big (928 pages, 42 hours audio).
Since ten years have elapsed since it was published, the reader can detect some signs of the book's age by noticing that there are no smart phones, iPads or iPods (it was the zenith of the CD Walkman era).
I have to say that Neal Stephenson is one of the most interesting and unique authors I have come across in some time now.
What I really loved about it was that the three main storylines that all seem so separate at first, come together over the course of the novel through family ties, etc, but are unknown to the modern characters because of war time secrecy, among other things.
Not only is it interesting from a historical war-time perspective, it is also extremely nerdy in its math and cryptographic details...not to mention computer programming and the history of how the modern computer came to be invented as a result of WWII cryptologists needing to break codes.
Neal Stephenson likes to throw weird shit together and see if it sticks.
The more recent his book, the more likely it is to resemble a schizophrenic's curio cabinet.
Meanwhile, Stephenson will have an exiled member of Italian royalty who works in 'demolition real estate' and knows Escrima thanks to an intense trepanning session with Horace Walpole, Duke Orford.
Which I believe is an accurate summary of the next William Gibson book.One man's premise is another man's plot.I liked it better when Stephenson used the bizarre as a spice to flavor a driven, exciting story.
If this doesn't seem like something you'd enjoy-then skip out on Neal Stephenson.
This is a large book and if you're not down to go through some really fascinating ideas that may have not much to do with the plot, then I'd not even bother.Now for the rest of you that don't mind utterly bizarre side tracks and very high end ideas that actually require you to think (how solitaire can be used an encryption algorithm) and form concepts in your mind-then you will love this dense work.
I truly enjoyed this book and am now a Neal Stephenson fan for life.
I remember when I finished reading Twilight I was kind of glad that I didn't think it was very good.
Cryptonomicon is a hard book to synopsize, I feel nonplussed just thinking about how to describe the basic plot in a few sentences (so I won’t).
This novel seems to be more character driven than the other Stephenson books that I read*.
Some of the cryptography and hacking scenes are also fascinating.Of the four Neal Stephenson books that I have read Cryptonomicon is the hardest to get into, and even by the end of the book I still wasn't really into it.
My four-star rating will likely puzzle those friends of mine who have had to listen to me piss and moan about this novel for the past six months. My progress as a reader was, shall we say, embarrassingly slow. (In Stephenson's defense, I tended to put his novel aside after every 200 or so pages and read other things; the book actually moves pretty swiftly considering its size.) But the four-star rating is sincere: I did enjoy this very much, for the most part, and I intend to at last read  Snow
(In Stephenson's defense, I tended to put his novel aside after every 200 or so pages and read other things; the book actually moves pretty swiftly considering its size.) But the four-star rating is sincere: I did enjoy this very much, for the most part, and I intend to at last read 
(There are some characters who almost achieve a fully rounded quality--Goto Dengo!--but that's not really all that surprising given a thousand pages of storytelling, is it?) So most of this is Stephenson fictionalizing scenes about the development of the information age, essentially saying, "Isn't this incredibly cool?" And it almost always is cool.
It's clever, I mean, in an Aureliano Buendia, Great Men History sort of way to see the same quirks and traits and consequences of history revealing themselves in the microcosm of a few generations of a few families.
But I mean, if you know the book you know these are sort of tiny complaints in the face of the awesomeness of Stephenson's humor and imagination, his passion for these, let's call them archetypes of humanity that he's wrapped around history and technology and ideas.
He doesn't really have a plot, he doesn't really care if I understand his info-dumps, he's not really slowing moments down and unpacking them like DFW, nor is he creating layers of density like Pynchon.
Cryptonomicon is a kind of all-digression attempt at showboating where the reader is disdained all over upon while Stephenson tries to outdo Heller and Pynchon.But this is just what happens when a text doesn't resonate with you and you don't know why.
Neal Stephenson performed his usual wizardry in "Cryptonomicon", a very long book that is a sequel to "The Baroque Cycle", which was in fact written later.
The WW II timeline mainly focuses on the stories of three major characters--Marine Corpsman Sergeant Bobby Shaftoe, American cryptoanalyst and mathematician Lawrence Waterhouse, and Japanese soldier and engineer Goto Dengo.
Stephenson presents the suffering of war unflinchingly, but in a way that does not make the book less interesting.There are a few famous historical personalities that show up in the World War II timeline.Lawrence Waterhouse meets Alan Turing, the famous British cryptoanalyst, at Princeton University before the war, and continues his interaction with him later.
Randy and the Shaftoes eventually realize that they share a secret heritage and together they set out on a massive code-breaking treasure hunt.The plot of Cryptonomicon is clever and elaborate, sometimes exciting (e.g., most scenes with Bobby Shaftoe), frequently funny (such as when Ronald Reagan interviews Bobby Shaftoe, and when the Waterhouse family uses a complicated mathematical algorithm to divide up the family heirlooms), and always informative.Neal Stephenson's fans know (and love) that you can't read one of his books without learning a lot.
For readers who haven't tried one of Neal Stephenson's books yet, Cryptonomicon is a good place to start.
Both authors can cram an exorbitant amount of information in less than 2000 pages, and to read it all makes ones head hurt, but in a good way.
Stephenson takes his readers from WWII to the Internet boom of the 90s, discusses cryptography ad nauseum, and seems to know an equal lot about war, math, mythology, computers and technology (both of the 40s and the 90s), the Seattle grunge scene, and Cap'n Crunch cereal.
(Which is why Stephenson's book is almost 1200 pages long.) Then, for good measure (or maybe to show off?) he even makes up a whole fictional community as well.
There is so much to appreciate here.It is a semi-historical adventure, so there's something for fiction and non-fiction fans.The writing is justly verbose at times, and conversationally abrupt at other times.
In essence, you find yourself wholly in the minds and bodies of the characters while reading every scene.The literary quality of the writing is top notch.
There is a lot of mathematical / historical / technological jargon -- and some really fantastic war stories.Multiple timelines multiplied by multiple plot-lines make it a slow and tricky read, but I kind of cherished that.
I am glad I finally got around to reading this as I had read so many sterling reviews and I am a big fan of Neal Stephenson (Snow Crash and The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer being two of my "All Time Favorite" novels).
This is a very long book (over 900 pages) and there were times that the pacing seemed slow (hence the 4 stars instead of 5).
That is about the only criticism I can give to this excellent book.
Superb multi-layered scifi of the highest quality. Multiple plots, multiple ideas, multiple awesome characters. Layers upon layers of discovery. Slow down and savor this one.
Though  Snow Crash  will probably remain my all-time favorite Neal Stephenson novel, Cryptonomicon might take the crown as his best.[†:] As I write this review, I wrapping up my third reading of this novel.BRIEF ASIDE REGARDING THE TIMING OF THIS THIRD READING: It is probably worth noting my mental state when I cracked the spine on this one for the third time. Stephenson's  Anathem  had just come out and I could not quite bring myself to drop the cash on the hardcover. But I was overwhelmed with
The cutting-edge laptops in the narrative still seem pretty fancy; the issues all continue to feel pertinent and relevant; the only thing that seems to set it in a particular time is an off-hand reference to "the Power Rangers" pretty late in the story.Anyway.It holds together well all these years later and is a great exemplar of Stephenson's hyperbolic style and how well he wields that style for explanatory power as well as humor.What Stephenson does masterfully here is to create an interesting story for nerds (esp.
But Randy is probably the best place to center.------† = At the time of this writing, there is a pretty broad swath of Stephenson unread by Y.T., namely all three in the Baroque Cycle and the brand new 
