https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16181775-the-rosie-project
‘The Rosie Project’ by Graeme Simsion is so wonderful. I’m going to attempt to enumerate my enjoyment of the novel; 1. Don Tillman is an Associate Professor of genetics at the University of Melbourne. He has a black-belt in Akikido, and can cook a mean lobster salad. He also has Asperger syndrome – but he doesn’t know that. Don just thinks that there’s something missing that leaves him baffled by human behaviour and unappealing to other people (especially the opposite sex). But after his dear ol
‘The Rosie Project’ by Graeme Simsion is so wonderful.
3.	This scene of Don speed-dating (which I read while on the train, and attracted many curious looks as I snorted my way through it);‘I've sequenced the questions for maximum speed of elimination,’ I explained.
I would actually love a follow-up to ‘The Rosie Project’ because when I got to the last page I immediately missed Don Tillman and wanted him back!
I could keep going and going and going because I adored ‘The Rosie Project’, but let’s agree that ‘10’ is a good place to stop espousing on all the reasons everyone should read this book.
Sheldon in love.Adorable and fun. Probably one of the most enjoyable chick lit books I've read, ironically, written by a man. On the other hand, not nearly enough sex in it.
Don himself is simply a figure of fun, he moves form scene to scene for our amusement in a "what will he do now?" manner as Julia Roberts did in Pretty Woman.
I guess this is meant to be an entertaining book but given the subject matter it should have been more than a collection of "smirk at the autistic dude, it's ok cause the author had him say we could" sequences.http://atheistdad74.blogspot.com.au/ http://www.wattpad.com/story/18231712...
He offers the audience an opportunity to empathise as well as laugh at seemingly 'weird' behaviours of the main character Unfortunately, in his 'Rosie Project' , Simsion misses the opportunity to be a champion for his protagonist, failing to show that although Don is hard-wired neurologically to behave and respond in what makes make him a target for ridicule and isolation , that his acute awareness of how he is perceived comprimises his inner struggle and peace.
The insights offered about the inconsistencies of what society accepts of human behaviour depending on who you are or your position in life were welcomed.
It’s kind of like having Sheldon Cooper from “The Big Bang Theory” talking to you - Don is a genius with no social skills who’s unable to read facial expressions and has a highly regimented lifestyle and peculiar way of speaking.
Not knowing anyone with Aspergers, I can’t tell whether he sounds convincingly like someone with it but what little I know of the condition suggests that his personality is unlikely to change as dramatically as Don’s does throughout the book.
It also constantly references other romantic comedy movies the entire time too, adding to the feeling that this is a homage to the genre and included because that’s what’s expected when you do something like this.
Actual rating : 3.5 starsFrom the moment I finished it I knew I had one critical task to perform : To review this project book. Although the timing is particularly annoying, I realized that the several options I faced made my choice incredibly clear.  Not reviewing this book, resulting in damage to this book's fame, which would be appalling due to the fact that it's fucking awesome. Rescheduling this review to another time, resulting in loss of memories and leading to a probable abandonment of t
✔ Relationship status : After realizing that many women didn't get his over-organized way of living, Don decided to start the Wife Project, following the batshit crazy idea where women have to apply to a questionnaire - I KNOW!!
As it is, I'm able to point that's The Rosie Project is an original and cute read, but the butterflies were too rare, even if they were here for sure (note that several scenes will make you Awww out loud).
Ultracharming & very very, uh, cute. The singular voice of the main character is enough to convince the reader that a love story exists in anything. This rom-com takes some DNA from various films, especially 1997's "As Good As It Gets." Worth a read, its very likely to become a film soon (the novel was originally written as a, yup, screenplay!).
It was very amusing and clever.
At one point I cringed at the end of the book when he is struggling about whether he feels love or not.
Not accurate for someone with Asperger's - they actually have intense emotions but are unable to express them very well.
But the author redeems himself by communicating that in the end and adds a very insightful point which is that perhaps Rosie needs to also be more accepting and not expect Don to change his core being.
Very much a neurodiversity message.I absolutely LOVE Don's address to the parents of young Asperger's students.
It is brilliant and very amusing.
How addictive was this book? I read it in a day - a day when I should have been doing other things.It's a fun, quirky and erudite love story. It's laugh-out-loud funny and unexpectedly touching.Don is a wonderfully offbeat narrative character and Rosie is his perfect foil. Graeme Simsion writes both characters pitch perfect.I think one of the reasons the story is so appealing is that it's written by a man, from a man's perspective. And it's definitely not lad lit.This book is going to be a huge hit and deservedly so. Highly recommended.
My first note written about this novel is a 1 ★ intolerably woeful but a night's sleep has made me feel a little more generous so I've amended it to 2★it was ok. The whole premise felt predictable, horribly predictable, I found that main character incredibly annoying and the humor did not amuse me. I know I am swimming against the tide of most readers, especially my GR friends but it was just all very ho-hum for me. Sorry, folks. 2★
I actually ended up enjoying this book much more than I originally thought I would. At the forefront it seems extremely sexist and not that great plot-wise, but it definitely addresses those issues and works through them with character development, which I found to be fantastic.The only thing I'm not sure on is the depiction of Asperger's. I am not an expert in any way, so I'm not sure if this portrayal was accurate/correct/well done. If someone wants to tell me that would be awesome!Overall enjoyable and pretty interesting romance.
Read this over two very busy days.
I fell in love with Don, the protagonist.
I loved the ways he measured and evaluated life.
I want to embrace his rigid meal plan and have lobster in my bathtub every Tuesday night.Although Don is a highly esteemed genetics scientist, he views life with a beautiful naivety, he knows the workings and technicalities of people, but just can't grasp that element that makes us chaotic, individual works of art.
Go Aspies!Don is obviously bordering on being dysfunctional in life and yet, his idiosyncracies started to make sense to me.
This has become a favourite, and I'd read it again.
This book started out really great.
For the first 100 pages I was entertained and even got a kick out of the quirky narration.
Then I sat back and thought about who I was reading into the mind of.
Don is a sort of disturbed man.
I was very uncomfortable throughout the last half of this book because he needed serious help dealing with the world that he wasn't receiving.
Don was such an unreliable narrator and what was an attempt at making a unique character read as someone who was creepy and deranged, and I disagree with how this book ended.
This book was so completely adorable and had me actually laughing out loud several times!It's told through the POV of Don, a scientist with Asperger's who is basically Sheldon Cooper from The Big Bang theory.
He compiles an extensive (and logical) list of the qualities he wants in a wife to start "The Wife Project," but gets sidetracked by "The Father Project" of a twenty-something woman named Rosie.
Their story takes place around a mission to grab sneaky DNA samples from a bunch of men in order to find Rosie's dad.
A couple people close to me have Asperger's and I think they'd actually be entertained by this story instead of feel alienated.
This book made me laugh.
Not many books can do that.
Written from a unique perspective, this is one of the few, if not the only, romantic comedies with a male protagonist.
And not only male, but autistic.
Don Tillman is a brilliant scientist, but a hapless socialist (I mean that with no political leanings, Don literally sucks at being social.) Rosie is beautiful, smart and nowhere close to what Don sees as a perfect life partner.
This book is one of those rare gems that most people could relate to on some level.
This is a beautiful love story.
He never believed that love, romance and marriage was for him.
In his quest to find the perfect wife, he creates an online dating profile with an extensive survey based on a wide range of desirable attributes, but in the meantime while he is waiting for Ms Perfect he devotes his time to helping a lady named Rosie find her biological father.
The Rosie Project is less of a romance and more of a tale of one mans journey to find love and discover some truths about himself.
Deve estar para breve, não?!"Mas eles parecem tão felizes os dois, que optamos por contemplá-los com um sorriso mudo :) Contudo, não deixa de ser intrigante a junção de naturezas tão distintas!Porque será???Quanto a mim, há duas razões a considerar:A primeira tem a ver com a condição humana; com a incessante busca de equilíbrio que por vezes se manifesta na união de dois seres que individualmente são desequilibrados, mas juntos, são capazes dum Nós harmonioso -- o que é excessivo num, está carente no outro!A segunda tem tudo a ver com o Amor em si.
Αυτός ο κατα τα αλλα συμπαθητικός και αστείος καθηγητής φτιάχνει μια λίστα σύμφωνα με τα δικά του πρότυπα -πλήρης απουσια ενσυναίσθησης- και προσπαθεί να βρει τη γυναίκα που θα πληροί τις προϋποθέσεις ώστε να γίνουν δυο τα άτομα χωρις κοινωνικές δεξιότητες χωρις αυθορμητισμό χωρις ζωή.
Αναπάντεχα στην ζωή του μπαίνει η Ροζι, με την οποια ζουν μια περιπέτεια με σκοπό να ανακαλύψουν το βιολογικό της πατέρα.
Βέβαια δεν πληροί τις προδιαγραφές της λίστας για την πολύφερνη νύφη και έτσι καταλήγουμε στο σπουδαίο συμπέρασμα ότι όσο κι αν ψάχνεις για τον έρωτα τελικά αυτός θα σε βρει εκεί που δεν το περιμένεις.
Meanwhile, he bumps into a woman named Rosie, who Don agrees is totally unsuitable, but he likes spending time with her anyway.
This novel is essentially a romantic comedy, so if you like that genre, you will probably enjoy this.
He recognized his gifts, such as being smart, dedicated and having an excellent memory, and he used those talents to help him navigate this new world involving Rosie.I was pleased to hear that a sequel was released earlier this year, and I look forward to reading more about Don and Rosie's adventures.Favorite Quotes"A questionnaire!
Asperger's syndrome is associated with organization, focus, innovative thinking, and rational detachment.""Throughout my life I have been criticized for a perceived lack of emotion, as if this were some absolute fault.
Don, If you were real I would marry you in a heartbeat.  ♡♡♡♡
I enjoyed every single minute of this book! I knew it'd be a favorite because I've lived it! There is a "Don" in my life, and I was very clearly put on the "unsuitable" list, but we've remained good friends. It's hard not to love these sort of characters (real or fictitious).I wager that this will be a film in the not too distant future. Even though it's an Australian book, I can't help but peg Lizzy Caplan as Rosie. *sigh* Just need a few more minutes to let it all sink in...
Buddy Read with Murugesh.This book is Absolutely Adorable. I think I had a BIG GRIN the entire time I was reading this book.Don Tillman at the start reminded me strongly of Sheldon Cooper from 'The Big Bang Theory', he has strong resemblance to Sheldon but still has characteristics of his own, and very cute ones I must say!Don meets Rosie and his life changes for the best. "In less than fifteen minutes, my entire schedule had been torn apart, shattered, rendered redundant. Rosie had taken over."
Buddy Read with Murugesh.This book is Absolutely Adorable.
I think I had a BIG GRIN the entire time I was reading this book.Don Tillman at the start reminded me strongly of Sheldon Cooper from 'The Big Bang Theory', he has strong resemblance to Sheldon but still has characteristics of his own, and very cute ones I must say!Don meets Rosie and his life changes for the best.
Rosie was a good character too but the STAR of this book was definitely Don.Don was just soo naive, cute and adorable.
Enter Rosie Jarman, a 29 year-old psychology grad student who "interrupts" Don's world dramatically.
Rosie is Don's polar opposite.
Rosie needs Don's help.
Since Don's profession is all about facts/genetics - he "reluctantly" agrees to help her (The Father Project) even though she's totally unsuitable as a potential wife.
"The Rosie Project" is a light and breezy novel from start to finish.
Don is so rigid and precise and Rosie is so untidy and doesn't like to mince words.
Will the old saying, "opposites attract" become a factor in Don and Rosie's new friendship?
An unconventional take on the Rom-Com genre, but with the same tropes.Here we have Don Tillman (view spoiler)[ No, not Don Draper. Though I will be sad when Mad Men finishes in a few weeks. I mean, where else am I going to get my sartorial inspirations from? Oh, right: GQ (hide spoiler)], a genetics researcher who has his life organized to the last minute and finally decides to take a wife. In order to do so, he creates a questionnaire in order to filter out all unsuitable women. (Why he doesn’t
(Why he doesn’t just use eHarmony is beyond me, since apparently they have a long ass test to take on there too.) Though he is described as a Cary Grant lookalike, I read him more as Zachary Levi.Don’s search to find a wife takes a turn when Rosie enters his office, and all sorts of Rom-Com hijinks ensue.
The twist here is that the girl doesn’t change for the guy, nor does the girl change the guy; it’s that he learns on his own and does it of his own volition… like a robot learning to love.”Love is a powerful feeling for another person, often defying logic.” P.280Don’s own logic is challenged and he sees his original plan with the questionnaire was flawed due to several romantic clichés that I won’t repeat here.
I loved this romantic comedy and it's main character, Don Tillman, a socially inept genetics professor.
His best and only friend, Gene, another professor, sends Rosie his way although unbeknown to Don is totally unsuitable according to his criteria.
One of my favorite scenes was when Rosie and Don were bartending.
People must have thought me strange as I'm driving to Maine for a family visit and having so much fun laughing while listening to The Rosie Project.Highly recommend for everyone, whether you like romantic comedy or not.A big 5 out of 5 stars.
4.5 starsI went through a fluffy novel/chick lit phase during my late teens and early twenties and vowed I would never pick up such a book again.
However, his project is put on the backburner when he meets the very unconventional Rosie and helps her out with her own project.The writing style was great.
I liked Don's personal development through the course of the book, and also learning how he sees life.
I don't know much about this condition but reading it helped me realize not everyone thinks and sees things in the same way.I also loved the deadpan writing of the narrator.
I'm so glad I read it.
This was a great read, really engaging, the characters were sweet and quirky, the main character is a good guy with various issues, he was so real though and was happy to be himself.
She was great too, just like in real life it's nice to meet people who buck the trend and don't have to be like 'everybody else'.
I recommend this book, it's a charming story and I felt like I had a friend throughout.
This is an example of fine storytelling, and I honestly think it's a great book to recommend to anyone looking for an Aussie read with an amazing amount quirk and spirit.
There’s only one problem - Rosie, an applicant to the project sent in by Don’s friend Gene, didn’t answer the questions correctly, but Don still enjoys her company.
These reviews say the author has made light of a medical condition or the author has completely gotten his facts wrong or the author should have written a serious book rather than a comedy if he was going to broach this subject matter or the author is simply a huge ass or blah blah blah blah blah.
If you want to read something that will change the world (or at least your life), The Rosie Project is more than likely the wrong choice.
Don Tillman is a 39-year old genetics professor who doesn't fit in well in social settings.
When a friend tells him he'd make a good husband, he proceeds on a mission to find a suitable wife.
As he proceeds with the Wife Project, another friend sends him a potential candidate, Rosie Jarman, who couldn't be more unsuitable (based on Don's criteria) but he becomes intrigued with her desire to find her biological father.
Left to my own devices, I never would have given this book a second glance without my GR friends' recommendations so I'm grateful to them for this story.
However, he knows the statistical probability that there is someone for everyone, and creates The Wife Project.
According to the survey his future wife needs to be punctual, successful and not a smoker.
She is looking for her biological father.
Don, a DNA expert is able to help her.
By helping her his Wife Project takes a back burner to the Father Project and an unlikely relationship blooms, forcing the scientifically minded geneticist to confront the spontaneous whirlwind that is Rosie—and the realization that love is not always what looks good on paper.
