https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59.The_Changeling_Sea
Whenever I think about this novel, I feel warm.
I feel at home.
This is the book that made me fall in love with reading, the very first one I bought with my own savings, more than 10 years ago.
It took me half an afternoon to finish it and, once I was done, I immediately went and reread it, skipping homework and totally forgetting about the world outside.
No matter how great or famous or brilliant or heartbreaking a book is, it will never be as important to me as this one is.
Peri, as in Periwinkle, is a young girl who lives in a small village by the sea.
Kyo, the young magician hired by the villagers to recover the huge gold chain holding down the dragon, explains to Peri how he experiences magic: Slowly you learn to turn the dark into shapes, colors ...
Lyo, with his magical eye, can unveil the poetry of the sea in a way that the gold crazed locals have long forgotten in their daily drudge of earning a living.
"Come out of the sea and into my heartMy dark, my shining love.Promise we shall never part,My dark, my singing love."This is no ordinary book.
It is a key to another realm.
I journeyed through the labyrinthine pathways of her heart to enter a secret world full of magic and beauty.
And I am forever changed.
I have always been a creature of the sea.
My soul heard her song and found it's way to her shore.
She gives me shelter from the storm.
Her heart keeps me warm.Thank you, Lia, for sharing this precious treasure with me.
I hope I find more authors like this while achieving my goal!I don't normally like books with romance in them.
This book was way out of my comfort zone being shelved under both.But the writing was so well done and the tale so beautiful that I enjoyed this one immensely.Everyone who tells the tale of a sea- journey, or listens to it, travels there safely and comes back again.The story is about a girl named Periwinkle who has lost both her parents to the sea - her father who disappeared while fishing and her mother who stares at the sea all day mourning his loss.
A Menina do Mar comes to mind, and though it's a children's book it's absolutely perfect, perhaps because I read it when I was a little girl and those books always have a special place in our hearts.
The Changeling Sea through what I can only assume to be some freaky magical powers Patricia McKillip possesses, managed to be placed into that same corner of my heart even though I've read it as an adult.
I love the way it reads on the page and can methodically deconstruct all the things that I like about it and appreciate the parts as much as the whole story, but it doesn't hit me right in the feels like The Forgotten Beasts of Eld. Yet I'm certain I would have loved this book more when I was younger, when I would have been eager to be fully immersed in the mystique of the sea and its mysterious magical pull.
That you will bring me black pearls and sing me into the sea when I am old.""I promise."[...]"Your heart sang to the sea.
This is a gorgeous, bittersweet, perfect, completely unsatisfying story.
Yes. I didn't like the other book by this author I've read nearly as much -- perhaps not at all, I can't remember.
It's a story about longing, really, longing and love.
Dar Williams' The Ocean comes to mind here, somewhat.It's not really a story tied together by plot, but by emotion, and Kir's longing, Peri's love and hope, the king's sadness, it all got to me.
The book is short, but I'll be thinking about it for a while.
Another comparison that comes to mind is Susan Cooper's Seaward.
Heart-breaking, atmospheric and unforgettable.This story was all I could ask for, and more.It doesn't need three hundred or four hundred pages, much of them filled with boring details to tell its story.It slowly arrives, it tells its tale, it imprints it in our hearts and minds, and calmly goes away...A coming of age punctuated by loss and finding what's important in one's live. "It’s an odd thing, happiness. Some people take happiness from gold. Or black pearls. And some of us, far more fortuna
Heart-breaking, atmospheric and unforgettable.This story was all I could ask for, and more.It doesn't need three hundred or four hundred pages, much of them filled with boring details to tell its story.It slowly arrives, it tells its tale, it imprints it in our hearts and minds, and calmly goes away...A coming of age punctuated by loss and finding what's important in one's live.
  "It’s an odd thing, happiness. Some people take happiness from gold. Or black pearls. And some of us, far more fortunate, take their happiness from periwinkles.”

My daughter and I both enjoyed this book about magic, loss, loneliness, and people wishing for things they can't have and to be things they can't be. There were some pretty heady concepts in here, and some nicely complex language. The little one ate it up like shrimp chowder with a spoon. And, y'know, I kinda did, too.
I first read a book by Patricia McKillip about three years ago and decided I must read more of her work. This has proven to be an excellent life choice since it's introduced me to books like The Changeling Sea, a beautifully written (and short stand alone!) fantasy story with themes of love and loss. The combination of legendary occurrences and everyday life by the sea is handled masterfully, and I added this memorable book to my favorites shelf immediately after finishing it.Full Review: http://www.fantasybookcafe.com/2016/0...
It’s just amazing how she manages to spill her wonderful imagination out into the pages and spin a story with the skills to back it up.Sure this novel (a novella almost, really) is short but I really loved how she takes a familiar aspect in fairy lore (the switching of babies) and places it in an entirely different setting.
It’s almost bittersweet but we are left with such pleased emotions after.I know everyone has said this already but this tale is exactly that: lovely.
A lovely, lovely tale with some of the most beautiful writing published.
Originally reviewed on The Book SmugglersIn a small fishing village on the coast of the wide, stormy sea, a bright-eyed young woman named Periwinkle makes her home.
Hateful of the ocean that has taken both of her parents away, Peri crafts three crude hexes to curse the sea - it is here that she meets Prince Kir, who also knew the wise woman and years for her counsel.
It's the story of a wild haired, barefooted fisherman's daughter that dares hex the spiteful sea, and yearns for the love of one that can never return it.
It was almost as if the author had a magical romantic tryst with herself while writing this book, her love and passion flows through the pages and the story, leaving the reader feeling warm and yet seeking an unknown that is both within reach as well as beyond.The story is about a girl, Peri or Periwinkle, a floor scrubber in an inn, who loses her father to the sea.
Whether it is the anguished Prince Kir or the lost sea dragon or the beguiling magician or even Peri, the main heroine, they are all believable and definitely characters that you can relate to.I loved the writing, which as I mentioned earlier is totally magical.
It is a story of a girl, two princes, one magician and a sea dragon.
Peri has stopped living with her mother and has started living in an old woman's abandoned house near the sea.
With each passing day Peri is getting more and more frustrated.
She is introvert and alone, a girl craving her mother's love and attention.
That is one of the reason that she wants to unravel the mystery of the sea.
The story is short yet it has a great character development.
All in all its a story of magic, mystery, fear, courage, hope and love.
And then the year she turns fifteen, Peri is suddenly really and truly alone for the first time in her young life.
A sea monster bound by a golden chain and from that point on, nothing is the same in Peri's life, and it is with gratitude she accepts the help of the wizard Lyo--a sort of local wise man.
The sea, it seemed to Peri, had taken her mother as well as her father, and left some stranger wandering despairingly among her cooking pots.She is not beautiful or poised or charming or sweet.
She skipped a beat with one oar and the Sea Urchin spun a half-circle.
. .” He trailed his fingers overboard and the Sea Urchin turned its bow toward the horizon again.
“Slowly you learn to turn the dark into shapes, colors.
. It’s like a second dawn breaking over the world.
That there’s nothing in the world that doesn’t possess its share of magic.
Even an empty shell, a lump of lead, an old dead leaf—you look at them and learn to see, and then to use, and after a while you can’t remember ever seeing the world any other way.
This is a gem of a book! It's compelling, magical and very unpredictable! It is the 4th book I've read from Patricia A. McKillip and I love the dreamlike quality of her writing.I am wavering between 4 and 5 stars and deciding on 4 only because I usually only give 5 stars to book I read read and still love.It is absolutely beautiful and Id recommend it to everyone who loves fairy tales.
I just couldn't get past Peri loving a man who was so tormented, who gave her nothing in return--was incapable of giving her any of himself. But she was still in love with him & pined for him when he was gone. Just not my favorite message for the target audience. Save the angst for the older crowd--I prefer children's books when the girl falls for a boy who is actually nice to her and thinks of her and not just poor, poor him.
SO GOOD. I loved it. The feels man.
Come suggerito dal titolo originale — The Changeling Sea — la storia ruota intorno allo scambio di due bambini, uno dei quali venuto dalle profondità del mare e a questo legato indissolubilmente.
È una vicenda semplice, in fin dei conti, pensata per un pubblico giovane, ma piena di belle suggestioni e scritta in modo talmente scorrevole che la si legge tutta d'un fiato.
C'è una ragazza un po' selvaggia, che odia il mare per aver portato via suo padre.
Un giovane mago dal sorriso pronto, un mago vero, che cercherà di placare quel mare pieno di segreti.
I liked that Kir was so desperate to get into the sea, but he was also aloof and unreachable, and I found his relationship with Peri rather forced.
It seemed to be convenient for the author for them to be in love, but the story didn't back it up, and because of that, any sense of loss that should have come at the end of the story was missing, and I found the end rather unsatisfying, since the whole book pointed to exactly what would happen (but not how) all along, and there weren't any surprises once we got there, except perhaps, for the magician's sudden attraction to Peri.
I was hoping to find a new fantasy favorite with Patricia McKillip but, alas, no.
What's more, her imagination reads like a fairy tale--vivid descriptions, half folk-lore, half reality itself.
And, as you may be able to imagine, I felt very little.
With older fantasy tales, a love story usually consists of a form of insta-love: one or two friendly interactions before BAM!
McKillip's brand of fantasy romance just didn't work for me.
I suspect, much like Robin McKinley, here lies another wonderful author whose works will simply continue to elude me.
3.5 stars.A delightfully bittersweet tale of magicians, sea dragons, old and new love, lost princes and, above all, periwinkles.
It's my first Patricia A.
McKillip.
I searched all over for fantasy books that might inspire me now that NaNoWriMo is just around the corner and I've decided to dabble in a fantasy novel that has been with me since the 9th grade.
Crazy, I know.Ms. McKillip has such a talent with prose.
Her descriptions were beautifully vivid and, while I didn't really connect with the heartache in the book, I did enjoy the cast of characters very much.
A wonderful tale of magic, love, and learning to live with the treasures and heartaches that the tide brings in. I love the skillful way Patricia McKillip has with prose. She weaves the story around you letting you love and sorrow with the people in the story. I may need to read this story over and over again. Thank you Jeannette for recommending it.
This short novel is lyrical and gripping, as the story of two princes, one bound to land but longing for the sea, and one bound to the sea but longing for land, and the ordinary girl (Periwinkle) who befriends both. Beautifully written and highly recommended!
The sea has magic.
When most people visit the seaside, the first fear that strikes them is that the sea water and the harsh sun will tan their skins.
Very few people really understand the beauty of the sea.
The sea, it’s water and everything in it, is beautiful.
What Peri doesn’t know is that she has magic as well.
Not only the kind of magic we read in books and hear about in fables.
The kind of magic that attracts people simply because it is irresistible.
This magic in Peri is what attracts a magician named Lyo towards her.
Peri, a young woman whose fisherman father drowned, casts a spellagainst the sea, calling forth a monster… and a Prince.A magical, moving, and completely original story, peopled with quirkilycharming characters.
Unlike most fantasy novels, this isn’t aboutwielding swords and spells to save the world, but about the power andwonder of both magic and human relationships.
Peri is a likable,offbeat heroine, and the choice she makes regarding the three men whocome into her life, the magician, the prince, and the sea dragon, isbelievable and heartwarming.All the characters, even the most minor ones, have their own lives andagendas, bringing to life the vividly imagined setting of a fishingvillage on the edge of enchantment.
The characters are exquisitely fleshed-out and complex, mysterious and lovely, infused with emotions and heart expected of an everyday person, yet with just the barest hint of magic running its current beneath.
The prose is absolutely spellbinding, and the conversations compelling, riddled with that simple, effortless, alluring ease that flows so naturally from the author's hand.May expand more on character thoughts later, but all in all, this was entirely lovely; a book I cherished and felt and swallowed every step of the way back to the sea and beyond, with eager eyes, fingers, and heart.
Some books fail to live up to nostalgia-tinged memories.
Some books remain solid years later.
And some books are even better than you remember.
This one's definitely in the latter category.It's a fairy tale first and foremost, so don't read it if you're looking for detailed worldbuilding or rules of magic.
It works by fairy-tale logic.
Metaphor is important.
Things come in threes.
Your heart's desire pays for itself, if only you can figure out what it is.Mostly, it's the language I love it for.
It shows that the scattering of huts on the shore can be just as magical as the palaces of pearl beneath the waves.
