https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67729.Hawksmoor
You stand before something of this caliber, of this infinite and oh-much-appreciated majesty, like the monkeys at the beginning of "2001"--in full awe of the macabre monolith, black & Godly, for its monstrous magnetism & set of awful (...demonic?) implications.I LOVE THIS novel!
It t makes my hair stand on end and goosebumps begin to form...This is avant garde, and nearer perfection than any novel in recent memory (I'd probably have to contend with Graham Greene's "Quiet American" or "End of the Affair" for that one).
London is alive but the immobilization of time is perfected--all ages become one.And the reader loves it.
“The Night was far advanc'd, and the Clock struck Eleven as we entered the Street; I wanted no Coachman to see us, so I took him by the Arm and led him thro' Alleys to the Church.
Then on reaching Lombard Street he looked up at me: Where are we going, Nick?We are going Home, says I and pointed out to him the Church of St Mary Woolnoth with the Scaffolding upon it.This is no Home, Nick, at least not for a Live Man.”History repeats itself as farce but this farce may grow into the blackest comedy.“Is Dust immortal then, I ask'd him, so that we may see it blowing through the Centuries?
Evil from the past echoes through the ages (frequently in the format of ye-oldy-worldy English) and the hidden signs and symbols of architect Nicholas Dyer act as a conduit to the future and Detective Nick Hawksmoor who is somewhere in the 20th century trying to clean up modern murders in the same churches.
Ackroyd has obviously performed a historical switcheroo by naming his modern day protagonist and detective, Nicholas Hawksmoor thus continuing that "echoes through eternity theme".
If this was a movie, this is what most likely what your experience of watching it will be.It opens with a dark, ancient-looking world, so you begin with a quiver of excitement.
Sort of where Jack the Ripper can come out in the screen anytime, gutting a prostitute.An architect, Nicholas Dyer, is commissioned to build seven churches in London.
The sites are these same churches, now old.
A detective named Nicholas Hawksmoor is investigating these crimes.Dyer's world and that of Hawksmoor somewhat mirror each other, like the latter is but a refrain of a song of long ago.
Motifs, names, events, character's gestures, they all keep clicking and whirring around and around each other, cog and teeth fitting so seamlessly it makes you feel all liquidy inside.
This book also had some of the most gorgeous lines of any I've recently read.
It had been such a perfect read until the last two chapters when...
nothing happened.
The characters just did one more rotation and the mechanism wound down.
No real climax, no resolution, I'm not even sure what the hell happened, to be honest.
And this depth of character is also helped by the resonance and echoes to be found in the victims - the young boy who builds model cathedrals, the harrowing history of a poor man's descent into mental illness (his social incapacity seen also in Dyer) and homelessness.I felt the origin of Dyer's belief system, his being taken in from the awful street-life by the "Enthusiastiks" (who strike me as learned Decadents/Hellfire Club types, although this is cannily left to the imagination) and tutored in a schismatic, esoteric thought that builds on his own naturally cynical view of humanity (given his experiences, who could blame him?) was quite well done.
This tale of the merged identities of a 17th century London architect and a contemporary police detective is wracked with darkness and terror. Few novels have ever had such a smashing impact on me, leaving me close to collapse. Magnificent style by Ackroyd (as always) but not offset by his often too-cleverness. It won major awards, then seems to have been largely forgotten. Come on, lads, lets not let it get away.
It seemed brilliant and just a little obscure back then, and my impression hasn't changed much.
It's the story of how 7 churches in London were secretly constructed on occult principles as focuses for dark energies; the result seems to be a sort of warp in the fabric of time which causes certain events and characters to recur over time.
The book's rather thinly-sketched titular character, and many of the obscurities of its plot, spring into context when you do a bit of research and find out the real name of the architect who built those 18th-century churches.
I mean, I've learnt Anglo-Saxon and Old Icelandic, and Middle English is easier for me than a post-modern novel.
Oddly enough, though, this has been called a post-modern novel (though the author, apparently, somewhat disagrees), so maybe that's why.Actually, though I found those sections off-putting, I found them better written and more interesting than the modern sections.
I've read other work by Peter Ackroyd and found them flat; he actually managed to catch my interest with the parts set in the 1700s, but the rest...
The ideas are fascinating, but ach, I don't get on with Peter Ackroyd!
I simply got stuck in this book and I'm not sure how much was me and how much was the book. Parts were interesting but parts seemed so labored. I really wanted to like it. Oh well. I may try this again in a few months and see if it hits me any differently. Til then, there are so many other things I want to read.
You wouldn’t want it all the time, but it’s good for an author to sometimes make things difficult for his readers.Nicholas Dyer is an assistant to Christopher Wren, working on six new London Churches in the reign of Queen Anne.
Meanwhile, in Twentieth Century London, police detective Nicholas Hawksmoor is investigating a series of murders committed at Dyer’s churches.
Otherwise I’d have known, before my Google search, that the name of Christopher Wren’s assistant who worked on these churches was actually Nicholas Hawksmoor.)The way the two narratives weave together is superbly done, with rhymes, phrases, sensations and character names echoing through the two time periods.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Byl to boj... Recenzi asi někdy jindy... Teď jdu koukat do zdi asi.. Určitě se k ty knize vrátím, protože podle mne jsem všechno nedal, ale už teď jsem každou stránku musel číst tak třikrát, tudíž mám načteno za tři knihy (tím omlouvám ty dva měsíce záseku) Hodně silná kniha
I also wanted to acquaint myself with the actual historical events of the time period before continuing.The story begins in the early 18th century when architect, Nicholas Dyer, has been commissioned to build seven new churches in London, a city devastated by the Great Plague of 1665 followed by the Great Fire of London in 1666.
I have liv'd long enough for others, like the Dog in the Wheel, and it is now the Season to begin for myself: I cannot change that Thing call'd Time, but I can alter its Posture and, as Boys do turn a looking-glass against the Sunne, so I will dazzle you all."The chapters alternate between the past and modern day London (1985) where a series of murders are occuring at each of Dyer's churches which are under investigation by senior police officer, Nicholas Hawksmoor.
Ackroyd is always at his best when he is writing about London. In many of his books, London is the main character, not so much a protagonist or antagonist but a present character all the same.  This is true here. Hawksmoor is about a series of murders that are connected with the churches in London. The book soars when dealing with London, and the menace of the neighborhood, the life of Spitalfields is wonderfully illustrated. For all its briefness, it is a heavy book that talks a while to diges
Ackroyd is always at his best when he is writing about London. In many of his books, London is the main character, not so much a protagonist or antagonist but a present character all the same. 	This is true here.	Hawksmoor is about a series of murders that are connected with the churches in London. The book soars when dealing with London, and the menace of the neighborhood, the life of Spitalfields is wonderfully illustrated.	For all its briefness, it is a heavy book that talks a while to digest.
"I was afraid of your Moving Picture, I said without thought, and that was why I left.It was only Clock-work, Nick.But what of the vast Machine of the World, in which Men move by Rote but in which nothing is free from Danger?Nature yields to the Froward and the Bold.It does not yield, it devours: You cannot master or manage Nature.But, Nick,our Age can at least take up the Rubbidge and lay the Foundacions: that is why we must study the principles of Nature, for they are our best Draught.No, sir, you must study the Humours and Natures of Men: they are corrupt, and therefore your best Guides to understand Corrupcion.
says, Is your Boy in the Kitchin.
I am mighty Hungry."
This is a very strange book - I would give it 2.5 stars but have to round up (generously!) to 3 stars as there were some lyrical passages with beautiful writing. However, the story, characters and plot did not engage my interest. I liked the swapping between the time periods in alternate chapters. I read this book for the Duncan Jones book club (or the David Bowie book club, whichever of the two you prefer!) but it wouldn't be my choice.
I suppose I picked this book because it had something to do with the architecture of Nicholas Hawksmoor, whose churches are scattered around London and have a very particular style: massive and unadorned.
The book turned out to be a crime novel, a fictional account very loosely based on Hawksmoor who is transformed here into one Nicholas Dyer, assistant to Sir Christopher Wren and troubled worshipper of the occult.
Except for some vivid descriptions of homelessness and moody noctunal scenes,mthis book rings a lot more vivid in the passages written in old English that correspond to the parts of the story with Mr. Dyer as the protagonist.
But, and I'm not sure if this was Ackroyd's intentions, it doesn't quite come off like that.
Don't get me wrong, for the right audience, it is completely worth digging through the dredge of London's underbelly and the odd spellings of the seventeenth century.
Probably didn't help I read most of the second half of this novel with a cold!Dyer, the architect in 17th C, is based on Nicholas Hawksmoor, real-life apprentice to Christopher Wren, the man behind the rebuilding of St Paul's (You can tell I've studied too much on London's history!).
Het is dat ik het op m'n e-reader heb gelezen, anders had ik het boek echt het raam uit geflikkerd.
Best fictional novel I’ve read in the past 3 years.
This may be classified as mystery, postmodern, and horror and, indeed, it is all of these things.
This is by no means an easy work—something that you can breeze through once and understand.
You are in the past and the future will be drawn.
Bahtkin’s dialogic is so useful, and I would even say necessary, to understand a large part of this book.
This is an intertextual dream.
It’s trans-intertextual as far as I know.
Time is also explored as something striving for representation of presence yet always failing.
Time is under erasure.
As an architectural historian, Ackroyd's play with real characters and actual places is especially intriguing.
The real 18th century architect Nicholas Hawksmoor becomes the fictitious Nicholas Dyer, heavily involved with the occult.
Hawksmoor the architect (a favorite of mine and always on my "top ten" whose works are high on my bucket list of must see buildings) designed six London churches.
Ackroyd has the fictional Dyer designing seven churches, the last one of which was conjured in my imagination to such an extent that I actually set to work attempting to do drawings of how it might have appeared.Ackroyd adapts the 18th century Hawksmoor as a 20th century detective solving a series of murders that, coincidentally, occur at the sites of Dyer's 18th century churches.
It's been a long time since I read this, but I remember the impact it had on me clearly.
I live and work in London and know well many of the streets and buildings on which the novel is based.
You can't live in a place that has so much history and not wonder about the lives and events that preceding generations experienced there.
Ackroyd takes this wonder and weaves an intricate story linking the past, present, concepts of evil around the real buildings that Hawksmoor created.
I read this on a very hot beach and can still remember the shivers it sent up my spine.
Reality gets bent in this masterpiece of dark magic, history, and the conflict between superstition and science--with math and engineering at the crux, one foot in both worlds.Think Moorcock or Alan Moore. Dark and trippy.
Very weird, very atmospheric 1985 novel by historian/biographer Peter Ackroyd, drawing on the historical figure of architect Nicholas Hawksmoor, who worked alongside Christopher Wren and, among other things, designed a half-dozen London churches.
In the novel, the historical figure of Hawksmoor becomes the character of Nicholas Dyer, a plague orphan turned loose-bowelled architect and secret Satanist, whose design of a half-dozen churches forms part of his Satan-worshipping and murderous plans.
Nicholas Hawksmoor, confusingly, is the name of a twentieth century detective in the story, investigating a series of mysterious murders at London churches.
The twentieth century chapters were a bit paler.
Čekala jsem od knihy hodně, kdo ne: alžbětinská angličtina, architektura, zločin, dvě roviny.
Je vlastně trestuhodnou chybou přestávat se čtením po kapitolách, protože kapitoly na sebe navazují ve dvou časových rovinách, první a poslední slova jsou stejná, stejně jako jména vedlejších postav.
Propojení místa s časem zde hraje zásadní roli, na jeho kulisách se odehrávají podobné příběhy a vábí k sobě ty stejné lidi.
Jako by místo bylo předurčením osudovosti, která se v čase naplní.
Všechny příběhy nakonec spočinou na tom správném místě.
Alžbětinská angličtina může odradit mnohé čtenáře, ale není proč zoufat, neboť český překlad Johany Labanczové je brilantní.
This isn't something I would have picked to read on my own, so I am very happy I joined the David Bowie book club and tackled this book. And what a ride it was! I found it very interesting, full of suspense, loved the occult themes and have to admit I absolutely had some trouble with the style - those pages written in old English took me some time to get through. The story line was superb and well thought of. Really liked this one.
In the early 18th century an architect oversees the construction of 7 churches while in the 1980's a policeman struggles to solve a series of murders.I'm giving this a reluctant 4 out of 5.
This is an awkward one, very high-brow but some of it was definitely lost on me.
It requires a considerable degree of patience and concentration to read.Much of it is written in Ye Olde english from the 1700's which i liked, its not the style but the substance which is hard to digest.
Oh and you will definitely feel soiled and depressed after reading this (even if you manage to avoid feeling confused).
This was an interesting read. I can that it wouldn't be for everyone. It jumps all over the place in time, and has many different voices involved. There were some parts that will stick with me for a long while. Adding in the old rhymes and songs was a perfectly splendid touch that added much to the story.I recommend this for anyone that likes their books with a bit of the weird, and appreciates an author that writes some great sentences.
From BBC Radio 4:1/2: London, 1711: An architect sets to work on some new churches, but few could imagine his dreadful purpose. Stars Philip Jackson.2/2: Eighteenth-century architect Nicholas Dyer is under suspicion, and a series of modern murders baffle Hawksmoor. Stars Philip Jackson.
