https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11821487-my-inventions-and-other-writings
“Of all things, I liked books best.”   Tesla was a bit of an enigma. He clearly operated in a way that most men couldn’t handle. He spent so much of his time alone, detached from society and all others; yet, he created some incredible things that altered civilisation as we know it. This quote here sums up much of his dealings with people:The real tragedy of his life and work is that so few people know of his enduring legacy. And he seems so removed from his time. His ideas were brilliant and i
He spent so much of his time alone, detached from society and all others; yet, he created some incredible things that altered civilisation as we know it.
This quote here sums up much of his dealings with people:The real tragedy of his life and work is that so few people know of his enduring legacy.
He saw the world in ways most people wouldn’t imagine.
Such emotions make a man forget food, sleep, friends, love, everything.” He describes the way his mind works with powerful clarity.
His writing has no real flare or energy; his ideas do, but his words do not convey them with any particular passion.
IntroductionA Note on the Text--My Inventions--Tesla Would Pour Lightning from Airships to Consume Foe--The Action of the Eye--The Problem of Increasing Human Energy: With Special Reference to the Harnessing of the Sun's Energy
Nowadays, we're mostly familiar with the Tesla basics - archetypal mad scientist, ripped off by the charlatans Edison and Marconi, and A Bit Odd. But reading his own writings is still a revelation, in that however smart and however odd you think he is, you're barely halfway there.
Tesla could do that, and turn in mid-air like a cat at age 59.
The author compiled a lot of Tesla's essays from The Electrical Experimenter magazine to piece meal together a short autobiography.
I found it fascinating that Tesla experienced flashing lights in his brain that caused him to be able to look at things in 3D, he could see them not just imagine them - he could both construct and operate them in his mind.
Not just ideas, but words triggered his brain to enable him to see the objects as 3 dimensional pictures.
Yes, a robot with a mind!
Tesla often referred to himself as an Automaton (robot).
A fascinating read. I found it best not to try and understand every detail, and he certainly makes some giant leaps of imagination but you can feel Tesla's passion in the colour of his anecdotes and explanations. His curiousity is infectious! I read this in a single sitting I was so engaged and I will visit it again.
This book is a good read but marred by the fact that the publishers failed to add any of the diagrams from the original publication. Why my Penguins do you spend so much time and money paying lefty fools to do introductions about the matriarchy, "which doesn't fit with the book", as an introduction to Jane Austens' Pride and Prejudice, when it could have been better spent to add the diagrams to this book and make it legible. No point adding refrences to diagrams in the text if they do not exist.Just ridiculous!
Nikola Tesla was a visionary, inventor, writer, and more...I'm fascinated by his mind, and his passion for creating. Really enjoyed reading this book. Definitely inspiring, but I do wish his achievements would've been more recognized.
A really inspiring life he had. In some ways, he did have strong gifts from nature. But, there's still enough to inspire; like the desire to be resourceful, the immense concentration, keeness in finding new problems, the desperate devotion to achieve success in solving the problems that come up.When I ordered it, I had intended to kick myself into a lifestyle of active work, from the grumpy inertia I was in.Still grumpy I am to some extent.
I wonder what the publisher had in mind.While I deeply admire Tesla, this book is eminently unreadable.
I think it's a collector's item to be used more as a reference work than a book to be read from cover to cover.
I say this because it reads like a personal diary; there's no continuity, no story.Nevertheless, it offers a wonderful insight into Tesla's mind, how he regarded his achievements and his eccentricities.
Some parts of the book read as 'familiar' because of how precise Tesla saw into our time and beyond.
If you haven't heard of him before, you will never forget him after reading this collection of his writings, inventions, thoughts and process. A humanitarian, creator and persona of immense presence and prescience this work gives you a view of history and the world seldom seen. Peppered with names and inventions that changed life for mankind in the early 20th Century, Nikola Tesla imagined life in the 21st. Read it.
The book is very difficult to follow, and the "Other Writings" is extremely boring.
Fascinating, bewildering, and brilliant all at once. Full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rfqq4...
Known as an inventor, Tesla was truly an astonishing thinker, so far ahead of his time as to be almost too advanced in his own mind frame. Great read.
Reading this book made me question that.Reading this nearly 100-year-old book (98 years, actually) changed my view about certain things which the current generation takes for granted.
But it encourages us to think crazy, beyond boundaries.The book tells you about his passion for science and innovation.
It tells you about the out of box thinking of Tesla, which may, at times, seem spectacularly absurd.
He predicted many things in the book, which would have seemed utterly ridiculous to his contemporaries.
But some of those ideas have been realized and used extensively in the current world.
So, who's to say that the rest won't be realized in future?
"My Inventions" is a semi-autobiographical series of articles that were published in an electronics hobby magazine in 1919, wherein Tesla relates bewildering personal anecdotes about the strange things he experienced as a child he believes were formative for many of his inspirations, alongside more commonplace life events and explanations of how his inventions came to fruition.
The other writings are three short essays: In the first, he precipitates the advent of widespread military AI (killer robots) and morbidly descends upon the problem of ending warfare once and for all through WMDS and how no nation would voluntarily use a weapon so deadly and despicable so as not to tarnish their reputation (he was wrong on that point).
Wenn er in seinem Werk von „einfachen Zusammenhängen“ spricht, wusste ich schon zwei Seiten zuvor nicht mehr, worum es ging.Aber mehr als die Erfindungen selbst interessierte mich der Mensch Nikola Tesla.
Immer wieder berichtet Tesla von Erfahrungen, die er als Kind oder Jugendlicher gemacht hat, die für seine späteren Arbeiten prägend waren.Dabei streift Tesla auch andere Bereiche der Wissenschaft, lässt sich über Geister aus und berichtet davon, dass er die Lösung für alle Kriege hätte (dieser Text liess mich leicht verängstigt zurück) und blickt schon weit, weit in die Zukunft.
Oder verwirrt.Für mich hat sich die Lektüre gelohnt und meine Bewunderung für Nikola Tesla ist noch weiter gewachsen.
Exciting and confusing book at the same time.Insight into a terribly restless mind.I used term "terribly" because while reading this book I felt sadness.
Sadness for this lonely and in many aspects wasted life.Exciting part - of course description of his many, many brilliant ideas.Confusing.
Firstly, I could not reconcile some of his ideas with my knowledge of physics.
Secondly, in few cases his ideas reached beyond science and led to very bizarre conclusions.
That's crazy.In few Tesla articles included in this book, there are very specific references to drawings, which are not included into the book - this is very sloppy editing.
Incredible read.
Nikola Tesla's life was so vastly interesting.
Many of his patents and technologies are in use today and changed how we live.
Some include AC Electrically, WIFI, Florescent Bulbs, X-Rays among hundreds of other patents in multiple countries.
He read the Bible throughout his life and at one point he spent about 5 months straight reading the Bible and was a Christian man with a deep respect for the Bible and Jesus Christ.
I look forward to reading anything I can obtain about Nikola Tesla.
The least he deserves are the giant bronze statues placed at the American and Canadian sides of Niagara Falls...
While it can be rather incoherent and difficult to comprehend at times, this book gives the reader excellent insights into the mind of a genius, one of the most innovative, out-of-the-box dreamers of the fin de siècle. Unfortunately, unlike Tesla I do not possess the ability to envision in startling detail the various mechanisms he proposes. This edition could be improved by the addition of illustrations within the text (although to be fair they do provide a link to an online repository of the images, but that does detract from its convenience).
if you don't know some words he says don't worry you'll be able to still understand what he is saying but just not as clearly. The book is as fascinating as Nikola Tesla is, you learn about his thoughts and his ideas. I would definitely recommend this book to anybody who is fascinated in his inventions or a little on his personal life as it is a true insight.
First half is great (i.e., "My Inventions"). Fascinating read about a man who was probably 100 years ahead of time. Second half feels a bit unstructured but still interesting. The author seems to present different writings in some order. Also, for some reason, I do not have the referenced diagrams on my Kindle. Overall, worth a read, again, especially the first part.
If terms like dynamos and turbines resonate with you, then this is your book. For me, it the idea of invention itself. We can all appreciate the skill of a mechanic who can get our car fixed, but what about the engineer who invents? This book inspires. Tesla was certainly a gifted man. His driven mindset never doubts his quest to achieve.
A great compassionate man. Nikola is an Angel. I didn't expect to laugh as much as I did. He was so innocent. He was so great. A true inventor, creator and a gentleman. My favourite genius.
Dude was gonna shoot electricity through the air and you'd dial into like a TV station. Wild.
interesting fellow, to say the least.
Loved it.
Very good
I love the math behind it, but the science confuses me, and the diagrams would have been very beneficial.Tesla had great visions of inventions and peace.
He understood his personal psyche and physicality well...and the limitations of current science.
HOWEVER he does speak of "small-minded and jealous individuals....who are to me nothing more than microbes of a nasty disease." oh yeah, he's talking of Edison.Tesla was about keeping the obdy healthy - no artificial food, diminish stimulants and drugs, exercise more, eliminate ignorance and warfare (to where it'd be machine vs.
Tesla was very educated, but it's weird for a person in 2014 America to see "thru" and "publisht".
While by no means was this book as thorough as it could have been, both in terms of details about his life and experiments, its not often you get to read such a beautifully written retelling from behind the scenes of genius, especially by the person himself.
Diagrams and further explanations might have completed this book if a proper understanding of who he was or what incredible leaps of thought and invention he bounded through and how they affected the world is what you were expecting.
But personally what I enjoyed the most was realising the tenderness that comes from being so intensely creative and intelligent, without dehumanizing him into just a list of inventions and influences.
Tesla is a fascinating guy and were it not for some mental instability, he probably would have done even greater things than he did (which is saying a lot because we basically owe all of our modern day electronics to him) - admittedly, I feel bad that he writes beautifully and knows his stuff but every now and then, I just have no idea what he's talking about anymore.
I think if I had a little lesson in electronics and electrical engineering, I would appreciate this biography a lot more than I did.
