https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28024.The_Sacred_and_the_Profane
This Ontological Thirst More a survey of sacred practices than an insightful deconstruction, Eliade’s work gets repetitive beyond a point as it keeps on multiplying examples, never coming to conclusions that go past a premise that is interesting but is also a truism, by construction.Eliade’s primary objective is to define the fundamental opposition between sacred and profane. This is done by showcasing the very perception of human mind towards the sacred and by categorizing the human mind/socie
The Sacred Man is defined as one who seeks, creates and needs the sacred space (and the meaning invested thus into his own life and surroundings) to exist, while the Profane Man does not.
Besides, the ontological thirst of the human mind is itself a profound mystery and any meaningful exploration should incorporate that into the question instead of conveniently placing that into the answer to a simpler question.The other major problem with this approach of distinguishing the sacred and profane is that ‘sacred’ can now be only defined as the ‘opposite of profane’.
Eliade proposes a strict division between what is defined as 'the sacred' and 'the profane', marked in space and time through stories of the origin of the universe, and the strict divisions of places of worship.
As such, he also connects this to his idea of 'the eternal return' - not in the Nietzschean sense, but in an ability to return to a mythical time and place through the repetition of ritual and engagement with a religious tradition.All of this is intriguing.
But this can only ever be a narrative survey, given how Eliade smooths over details with vague connections.
Repetitive and pointless. Better resources exist.
Were you to read only one book by Eliade “The Sacred and the Profane” is the one I'd recommend, at least until I've read more of him.Unlike the Angries who think religion should be simply and finally dispensed by modern societies, Eliade (and the others) explain that some sort of religion is all but inevitable.
Understanding religion and sort of certainty that leads to life-changing (or life-ending) dogma, doctrine, and action is more important than ever.If the study of religion is your thing you've probably already read The Sacred and the Profane, but if you haven't, you should.
As a consequence I came to perceive him as redundant, each book repeating many of the points made by others previously read.
This book is a bit different in that he consciously works off Otto's Idea of the Holy, a book I'd read in college.
What struck me as original at the time was Eliade's treatment of the axis mundi, whereby all is oriented.Eliade's personal history was unknown to me at the time of reading his books.
If I were to read him again I would be sensitive to these political associations and would seek to understand how, if it all, they influenced his treatment of religion.
Un très bon livre d'introduction à l'Histoire des religions qui a aussi fait un gros ménage dans ma tête...
It was incredibly frustrating that all the books I could find regarding the subject were written for absolute beginners, and I latched onto this book the way a drowning person would latch onto a lifesaver.
Despite the fact that this book was not written specifically for my religion, it still managed to clarify everything from why I was religious, to how to be religious.
I learned far more about myself and my faith from this one book than any ten of the beginner's books I'd read so far.
Một cuốn sách dung dị nhưng không dễ đọc. Tôi đã phải bỏ dở trong lần thử đầu tiên để rồi ở lần thứ hai thấy mọi sự dễ dàng, trôi chảy. Rõ ràng đây là một tài liệu được viết với mục đích ban đầu là để giảng dạy như lời giới thiệu. Nếu chỉ dùng một câu để mô tả nội dung thì đây là cuốn sách về đời sống tôn giáo của loài người (dòng tựa phụ ngay bìa 1: Bản chất của tôn giáo có phần quá khoa trương!). Sách hay, dịch tốt và đáng đọc.
Gondolatébresztő és inspiráló olvasmány, mint általában az összes Eliade tanulmány.
A történettudományban eltöltött kis idő után azonban egyfajta egészséges szkepszis alakul ki az emberben az összehasonlító vallási stúdiumokkal szemben.
Persze ez legyen az olvasó feladata és problémája, legyen az ő felelőssége, hogy miként és mire veszi igénybe az összehasonlító vallástörténet eredményeit.
Eliade írása - hangsúlyozottan csupán bevezetésnek szánva egy összetett és bonyolult kérdéskörbe - ezenkívül nyíltan elfogult a homo religiosus, azaz a vallásos ember világlátása javára a profán emberével szemben.
Az állandóan visszatérő, dogmatikusan agyonszajkózott tételmondatok Eliade mondandóját erősen "szájbarágóssá" teszik, ami egyfelől hasznos, hiszen szinte belevésődik az olvasó agyába, másfelől egyesek számára kifejezetten bosszantó is lehet.
A great work on comparative religion. Eliade is a master - knowledgable of all traditions, and able to collate and analyze them, yet not in a dry, rational way. The chief thesis here is that traditional man understood the entire cosmos, as well as time, as sacred. Modern man, due to materialism and naturalism, has rejected this aspect and thus lost his soul. Esotericists and liturgists will have to read this.
This very scholarly work is a look into the archetypal symbols that differentiate the sacred and the profane- from mythology to architecture, even the way we experience time.
Lots of interesting thoughts after reading this- is there one way to approach God of are the symbols all pointing in the same direction?
Or has one truth been looked at from many angles, or has one truth been broken in to many pieces, most religions have pieces of the truth?
Eliade's story of the phenomenologically universal makeup of people's sacred/profane categories, and their manifestations in sentimentality does not make an appearance here--so far as i can remember anyway (it's been a year since i touched the book).
But what does arise here is an accurate portrayal of those sentiments, and perhaps by implication, the intentional (and come to think of it, idiolectic) makeup causing them.
They have caused in me the search for what might otherwise also be termed universal instantiations of human sentimentality--finding their source, likewise, in the phenomenological sphere.
If i am right about them as universal, and i think i am, i have Eliade to thank for it.
For now, one section was assigned for reading in my "Ritual" course at Pacifica.I loved it!"Sacred Space and Making the World Sacred."Eliade demonstrates how whenever we make something, a home, a city, a church, we are re-enacting the form of creation, and, as religious individuals, are seeking union with God. He discusses the sacredness of "transforming [any] dwelling place" (52).My favorite passage:"Exactly like the city of the sanctuary, the house is sanctified, in whole or part, by cosmological symbolism or ritual.
The House is not a an object[.] it is the universe that man constructs for himself by imitating the paradigmatic creation of the gods, the cosmogony.
Although lucidly written, the book didn't engage me throughout.
He has interesting things to say and makes interesting comments about the religious man and the modern man, but most of his arguments were buried under anthropological examples.
Granted, it is an anthropological study on the phenomenology of the religious man.
My interest level stayed rather (surprisingly) low, and I had to skip many passages to get through the pages without falling asleep.
And I did fall asleep numerous times and ended up putting the book down.Overall, there were some interesting ideas, but it was rather dull = 2 (it was ok)
اثری از الیاده با نظریات شگفت در مورد تقدس و تقدیس، عمدتن در آیین مسیحیت، در حول و حوش مقدسین و مکان های مقدس، بررسی چگونگی تقدیس و تقدس در کلیسا، روایات و افسانه هایی در این زمینه.
His language is not heavy, such as most of philosophers, but almost kind of a literary narration, novel like which keeps me going on in reading.
But I won’t recommend Eliade to those who are not very much interested in different cultures and different people.
Jeez, what an amazing read. Made me analyze what truly defines the spiritual or the sacred in my life and put that into the context of space and time. "The homogeneity of time and space" is the truth of the profane. Eliade shows exactly how this breaks down in human activity.
"By introducing him to the sacred, it obliges him to assume the responsibility that goes with being a man." Such wisdom pulls communities together while reminding man of their divine origins, and, with each symbolic death and resurrection, brings religious man closer to the divine.So, what do I think?Eliade points out that non-religious man (man whose life has been consciously desacrilized by the modern world) virtually cannot exist in a pure form because man cannot escape his religious ancestral roots by which he came to be.
Todos estos lugares conservan, incluso para el hombre más declaradamente no-religioso, una cualidad excepcional, «única»: son los «lugares santos» de su Universo privado, tal como si este ser no-religioso hubiera tenido la revelación de otra realidad distinta de la que participa en su existencia cotidiana.Esta tensión entre las sociedades modernas, "desacralizadas", y las cultuales es interesantísima, porque nos hace rever algunas de nuestras costumbres, repensar esos pequeños "tics", detalles, que quizá no se advierten pero de algún modo elaboran el espacio para pensar en una pseudo sacralidad, o, como propone el libro, más bien sus restos, porque nuestra historia, nuestra cultura, proviene precisamente de estos modos de concebir la vida.
المقــــدس والمدنــــــسمرســـــــيا إليـــــــاد من منا لم يفكر يوما في ماجعل المقدس مقدسا وماجعل المدنس مدنسا! هنا هذا المؤرخ الغريب يبحث جيدا في حدود المقدس والمدنس(الدنيوي)مرسيا إلياد مؤرخ روماني للأديان، يبحث جيدا في نشأة الأديان ونشأة الفكر المتدين والأساطير وسلوك الانسان اللامتدين أيضا يعتقد أن الهدف الكلي لمؤرخ الديان هو أن يفهم وأن يوضح للغير سلوك الانسان المتدين وعالمه العقليهنا في هذا الكتاب يقدم لك إلياد تصورا عن نشأة المقدس وماجعل من المقدس مقدسا وأثر الطبيعة على التدين ونشأة بعض ال
مؤرخ روماني للأديان، يبحث جيدا في نشأة الأديان ونشأة الفكر المتدين والأساطير وسلوك الانسان اللامتدين أيضا يعتقد أن الهدف الكلي لمؤرخ الديان هو أن يفهم وأن يوضح للغير سلوك الانسان المتدين وعالمه العقليهنا في هذا الكتاب يقدم لك إلياد تصورا عن نشأة المقدس وماجعل من المقدس مقدسا وأثر الطبيعة على التدين ونشأة بعض الأساطير وأثر الوجود البشري على فكرة القداسةلدى إلياد العديد من الأفكار والكثير الكثير من البحوث والمعلومات لذا فهو يمطرك بأفكاره في محاولة منه لفهم كيف يفكر الإنسان المتدين مع انه يعي جيدا أنه لايمكن بأي طريقة اختراق العالم العقلي للإنسان المتدين لكنه يحاول ذلك معتمدا مبدأ أنه لا توجد وسيلة لفهم عالم عقلي غريب سوى بالاقامة ضمنهيقول لك إلياد هاهنا أن ما يبعث الإنسان على ابتكار المقدس هو إن الانسان يرغب في ايجاد الحضور الايجابي للضالة ويرغب كذلك في العيش في العالم الطاهر والقوي كما خرج من تحت يدي الخالق، فما فكرة المقدس لدى الإنسان إلا محاولة للاتصال بالآلهة التي جعلت الكون مركزا لناالالهة تظهر نفسها للبشر عبر الحياة الكونية..
Basically, Eliade noticed some philosophical ideas cropping up here and there in various culture's religions, grabbed the ones he thought were the most interesting from a modern perspective, did some free-form extrapolation and syncretization to make it look like these ideas were universal...
and there you go, we have a consistent, coherent philosophical framework on which "religious man" supposedly based their theological world view.
But what we actually have is the philosophical framework that Mircea Eliade THOUGHT religious people should have.
But a crappy way to do empirical research, from a historical point of view, for anyone who is actually looking for that kind of thing.
The inescapable human distinction between sacred and profane occurs when man attempts to ground himself in his world, to recognize both his own subjectivity and the subjective importance of the physical and temporal spaces he inhabits.
Religious customs, from the most primitive to the most sophisticated, are in essence an acting out of this sacralization of the world; and this sacralizing tendency is as fundamental to human nature as consciousness itself.


Le sacré et le profane sont deux notions qui n’ont de sens que si on les oppose.
Ce qui est sacré est ce qui n’est plus profane.
Ce qui est profane est ce qui n’a pas encore été consacré.
Eh bien tout simplement parceque la religiosité est de plus en plus mal vu par la société moderne, elle est jugée primitive et dépassée.
J'ai bien aimé cette lecture mais je ne pense pas que je vais la recommander à tout le monde, du moins pas à ceux qui ne sont pas capables d'ouverture d'esprit!
"Até a leitura comporta uma função mitológica - não somente porque substitui a narração dos mitos nas sociedades arcaicas e a literatura oral, viva ainda nas comunidades rurais da Europa, mas sobretudo porque, graças à leitura, o homem moderno consegue obter uma "saída do Tempo" comparável à efetuada pelos mitos. Quer se "mate" o tempo com um romance policial, ou se penetre num universo temporal alheio representado por qualquer romance, a leitura projeta o homem moderno para fora de seu tempo pessoal e o integra a outros ritmos, fazendo-o viver numa outra "história"."
This means that all these physiological acts are deprived of spiritual significance, hence deprived of their truly human dimension."Eliade examines various components of universal and primitive religiosity, including sacred space, sacred time, and the rite of initiation.
In each, he examines the pervasive nature of the spiritual within the worldview of primitive man.
And each allows him to present a stark contrast with the "desacralized" world of modern man, a world which has, ultimately, been stripped of meaning and significance through its desacralization.In contrast with modern man's fatal combination of utility and nihilism, Eliade presents the vibrant and lively world of the primitive religious man, for whom each thing and all things have eternal importance and numinous connotations and consequences.
The way in which human beings started to develop their understanding of what is sacred had once been attributed to what we conceive as divine.
Mircea Eliade suggests that one of the sacred things are the fundamental and basic elements of history: Space, Time and Nature.
On the other hand, Eliade regards that nonreligious human beings have abandoned the cardinal elements which constitute the sacred.
I have to disagree with Eliade on this point because he fails to notice that faith is an integral part of space and time for nonreligious man also.
Modern human beings which are becoming increasingly nonreligious manifest the sacred by what increases their progress.
Nevertheless, while the text is called The Sacred and the Profane, and while Eliade’s introductory comments in the first chapter and his final remarks in the last chapter elucidate this distinction, he ultimately devotes precious little time to an in-depth analysis of the existential differences between these archetypes, how our current world became desacralized, and how one so inclined could move from an entirely profane existence into the sacred (at least temporarily and periodically) in our modern society.Before I delve into my criticisms of Eliade’s theses, however, there are a number of important claims that deserve mention both for their ostensible veracity and trenchancy.

Pentru o istorie a miturilor accesibilă persoanelor nespecialiste, citiți-l pe Joseph Campbell. Pentru o reflecție asupra influenței pe care o au miturile arhaice asupra omului modern, "profan", citiți-l pe Joseph Campbell. Pentru o comparație între variantele diferitelor popoare pentru miturile ontologice, eroice, escatologice, etc. citiți-l pe Joseph Campbell.În afară de interpretarea locurilor sacre, unde, spune el, avem unirea directă cu sacrul, sau manifestarea sacrului pe acest pământ, nu am găsit ceva interesant sau original. Lucrarea e greoaie, încărcată de ideologie și anti-modernă, calități pentru care nu pot s-o recomand.
