https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13530973-antifragile
I would rather have every one of my biases and heuristics kicked around so I will reconsider where they came from--and whether to keep them--than be coddled and comforted.Perhaps the best heuristic reminders I received from this book: 1/ Invest (trust) in people, not plans.
4/ Options that benefit from volatility, disruption, and entropy are the best--but keep your "skin in the game;" never transfer your fragility to someone else.
6/ If you generate more than one* reason to do something, you're trying to convince yourself; this is a strong sign to wait or even reject the plan; that said, if you have a single excellent reason, go for it and don't be afraid of failure.
"Antifragile" is not the last word he makes up, either.
Instead of writing the word "brave," for instance, he substitutes "nonmeek." In the future, I would suggest the author try using a thesaurus, or as he probably calls it, an "antidictionary."Elsewhere, the author launches into lengthy diatribes against academia, which he "tried" but found university life filled with "petty obsessions, envy, and icy-cold hatreds." He says that business, in contrast, "brings out the best in people...[and makes people] forgiving, honest, loving, and trusting." It was at this point, on page 17, that I contemplated throwing the book against the wall (for the first, but not last time).
Sometimes, a system is antifragile, even though it's components aren't; organisms might die because of stress, but the entire ecosystem is made stronger over the long run.A key point he makes is that in our rush to help, fix, or support system - in short, *do something*, we often make systems more fragile in the long run.
In our efforts to make relatively small improvements to peoples lives through intervention, our health in the long run becomes more fragile, subject to the long term effects of drugs and therapies, and by the lifestyles that continue to enable.His point is that you bet on the most tested system, and the most tested system we know of is Mother Nature and evolution.
What can we learn from them, apart from the fact that solving problems is good?Taleb later argues that avoiding stress is bad--that it prevents the organism from developing the ability to manage the stress that will eventually return in a stronger form.
The famously complex immune system, with its unfortunate side effects (allergies, auto-immune disease) looks a lot like the sort of overengineered over-protective solution with unintended consequences Taleb later mocks.Moving on from the organism, Taleb's next example is evolution.
He does acknowledge that the organism and the species have very different views on what is good.
Despite the previous points I do not read books on astrology, for example, because I am certain they will not convince me of their truth (I won't learn from them), but even more certain I will find them utterly and completely boring.This book started as an amazing jewel.
To say that people knew some of the things Euclid did before he wrote his books, through trial and error is trivial.
Yes, people didn't cite or knew Euclid, but they were using the results, not referencing scientific literature.To say that academic research is not based on trial and error is not just a mistake.
That's reading, right?Or is it?I started off pretty well, somehow managing to get my brain around the whole idea of antifragile, a word the author, Nassim Nicholas Taleb, admits he made up.
Maybe antireading is the kind of reading where you turn the pages and read the words, but understand only a smidgen of what's there, and then you think about it for weeks, and come back to the book again and again, and maybe try to reread it, and it tweaks your map about this life, even through you really didn't understand much of what you read to begin with.Maybe antireading is the best kind of reading of all.
What a frustrating book.10% of it was brilliant and original ideas - I was very glad to learn about antifragility and optionality as it relates to life and business.Unfortunately, the other 90% of it was spent whining (I can't describe it any other way) and moralizing, of the most weaksauce variety. Ugh.Still worth reading, if you're patient, or if you can skim heavily through his "modern society sucks, the Romans were awesome!" diatribes.
The author somehow is able to pull off sounding like an arrogant prick and simultaneously like an insecure whiner. The rare examples when the author wrote something that was true or significant do not offset the hundred of pages of unsubstantiated assertions and purely fabricated nonsense.
For example, a fragile state is catching a disease, a neutral state is avoiding exposure to anyone infected with the disease, and antifragile state is being vaccinated (where a small dosage produces immunity to the disease).
There are many examples in the book, like lack of physical exertion, walking, and jogging.
The rigorous activity of jogging increases health benefits, whereas no stressors to the body make it fragile.After the point is made, the rest of the book is filled with a lot ranting about others being wrong and the author being right.
I stopped reading the book after halfway through.
Antifragile is very weak on evidence.You have to worry about an author that thinks he can vocalize an argument through Tony Soprano that defeats Socrates(!!!).
Taleb argues that war is more prevalent today for a couple of pages and considers the argument won (something Steven Pinker argues against for 832 pages in Better Angels of our Nature).
Taleb calls the Code of Hammurabi "more advanced" (381).
The quacks that Taleb loves so well have accomplished none of this.When Taleb thinks he is making an argument he is usually making a weak excuse instead of a legitimate point.
He considers the Office of Management and Budget to be a bunch of scam artists, who are arrogant to believe they can predict the future.Taleb is against much of the scientific basic research as practiced by academics.
He uses a metaphor of academics using arcane jargon and mathematics, lecturing birds on how to fly.
Sciences that do not use statistics for proofs (like physics) are not so prone to this approach.It is obvious, too, that Taleb had a lot of fun writing this book.
This is one of the most important books I've ever read, it opened my eyes to entire new mindset and gave me a new framework for understanding the world.
I know some of you reading this book will find the cocky tone of the author unbearable but just keep plowing through, the ideas shared inside are based on a very powerful logic that's hard to argue against.
Example: If you pick a glass jar off the floor and drop it, it will break if you drop from enough height, it's fragile.
If you pick up a rubber ball off the floor and drop it, it will bounce instead of breaking, it's robust and will be unchanged.
No problem with many of his points, but they are not radically new.I find it annoying that the author makes up his own words to identify concepts already adequately defined elsewhere.Reading this book was like being stuck on vacation with a know-it-all conspiracy theorist who never lets up.
The author rambles, he rants, he sees no reason to let an editor review his work (it needed a good editor).
There are good ideas that could have been covered using far less "ink."I'd suggest reading the reviews and gleaning the few interesting ideas presented, rather than buying the book and struggling through 500+ pages.
I could not point to a worse book that I have read.The author is disorganized and throws a bunch of random factoids together with an unconvincing unifying theme.
The lack of clarity in thinking is reminiscent of the kind of pseudo-intellectual numerology or fact-correlating that you find in works of fiction, but it is made even worse by the fact that the author seems to have a long list of axes to grind, and fills the book with petty name calling.
Still, I would prefer to slog through a bulleted list of factoids than to read them in his "I'm grinding an axe" framework.
A truly dreadful text.The author is an extremely poor writer, both in command of language (see "non-sissy risk") and in general structure. He is also rather egomaniacal. The claims made are either commonsensical (see other reviews) or simply wrong. Take the argument that the consolidation of the banking sector caused the recent financial crisis. The Canadian and Australian banking sectors are extremely concentrated in a handful of firms, yet both countries did not endure systemic banking crises (and haven't for quite some time).Avoid this book at all costs.
I couldn't get past the prologue the tone was so snarky it was like being back in middle school with the mean girls.
If you think you have a good idea or theory - let it stand on its own merit without denigrating everyone and everything else.
There are already more good books and more good ideas that we'll ever have time to read.
No need to waste your time on this one.
What a self-centered jerk with an overly simplistic premise. Paraphrased 'Do those things which, regardless of outcome, make you better able to handle change.'I just saved you from listening to his blathering and bragging.
In fact small probabilities are incomputable, even if one has the right model – which we of course don’t.” [Taleb fails to mention Poincare yet he quoted him in the Black Swan, but whatever.]A visible tension between individual and collective interestsQuotes again: “What the economy, as a collective, wants [business school graduates] to do is not to survive, rather to take a lot, a lot of imprudent risks themselves and be blinded by the odds.
Reading between the lines (rather easy because he is disarmingly frank about his emotions and reactions) Mr Taleb was clearly outraged and humiliated by a rejection from a prestigious Ivy-League university, (probably Harvard), as the book drips with contempt for academics in general, and the economic fraternity in particular.
In addition to this non-theory, he actually does have a theory that all economists ignore “non-linear” effects that lie at the heart of his Antifragile mantra.
So the message of this book, if I can condense its 500+ pages, is this: “The World’s a Crazy Place, but someone has to profit.
A horrid book. I really looked forward to this book, but beyond the central concept of how there are things which become better/ strengthen in the face of adversity, and how they ought to be termed 'antifragile' - the book has very little to offer.I think the book ought to have been worth 50 odd pages; in the end, it's a very badly written book that is difficult to follow.
He notes that the maxim "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger," isn't NEW, just that it's almost completely ignored by policy makers, economists, parents who try to protect their children from all harm, and his previous colleagues in risk management positions.HOWEVER, and this is a big however, I find Taleb's tone and style incredibly off-putting.
And really, Taleb could have devoted 35 concentrated pages advising us how to better embrace random events and stressors (Black Swans he calls them in his previous book) at work, in raising our children, and with regard to our own health.
I wanted to like this, but found it inscrutably long winded and obnoxiously dull. What is the practical takeaway? Adaptability is preferable to overly complex systems that break down? Why didn't I think of that?!
I'm predisposed to like new ideas, unexpected outcomes, and even a bit of irreverence. But after just 13 pages of Taleb's narcissistic, contrarian-for-contrarianism's-sake drivel, I decided I had better things to do with my life.
This guy fundamentally misunderstands evolution on the second page of the prologue. NEXT.
The idea about evolutionary processes in life is old as ... the theory of evolution itself. Science, technology, economics, etc. are the part of evolution and follow the same evolutionary laws. So, page after page of angry "tea partish" rant against education, science, etc is just tiresome.
The prologue set off my crackpot bullshit alarms and skimming the rest of the book didn't reassure me. Just think of all the time I saved!
Don't waste you time. This book is a bunch of nonsense!
I just can't continue this book. This guy is SO full of himself. Not to mention that he keeps contradicting himself, based on whatever he feels like
And this is where Taleb’s point gets really interesting and is entirely counterintuitive.Institutions, corporations, management systems, biological organisms can be fragile, robust, or antifragile.
Not many people know that the house built on sand had a five-star rating.“Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.
Because the world is filled with risk, the way that fragile systems manage this is by trying to outsource the risk.
فرآیند تکامل طبیعت نمونه اعلای پادشکنندگیه.سیستم های پیچیده (از چیزهای طبیعی مثل بدن ما یا اکوسیستم دریاها گرفته تا خط تولید کارخونه و سیستم حمل و نقل و اقتصاد و موارد دیگه) دارای تعاملات و وابستگی های متقابل زیادی هستن که خیلی وقت ها حتا قابل شناسایی نیستن و در نتیجه تحت تاثیر بعضی از کنش ها، واکنش هایی می دن که برای ما قابل پیش بینی نیستن و معمولا هم این واکنش ها خطی نیست و به صورت تصاعدی یا غیرقابل پیش بینی عمل می کنه.
