https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34084.The_Waste_Lands
It‘s in the Author‘s Note at the end:The fourth volume in the tale of the Dark Tower should appear - always assuming the continuation of Constant Writer’s life and Constant Reader’s interest - in the not-too-distant-future.It took six years for the next book to come out.
I get that same sense of frustration when I read this remembering the six goddamn years between books while seeing all kinds of other King novels come out.
BETWEEN 1991 AND 2003 STEPHEN FUCKING KING, ONE-OF-THE-MOST-PROFILIC-WRITERS-I’VE-EVER-READ, MANAGED TO WRITE JUST ONE GODDAMN DARK TOWER BOOK AND IF THAT MINIVAN HADN’T VERY NEARLY KILLED HIS PROCRASTINATING ASS, I’D PROBABLY STILL BE WAITING!!*ahem* Excuse me.
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Skirting back-story and mythology, it focuses too much on cliché genre retreads to be thought of as a serious fantasy.
My personal journey into the world of "The Dark Tower" goes on, together with the gunslinger, Roland, escorted by Eddie and Susannah, the two tale gunners recruited in the previous chapter, The Drawing of the Three.
Beh, quella dei quesiti irrisolti è stata la filosofia vincente di tante serie narrative o televisive, come la serie cult "LOST", della quale sono stato un fan sfegatato, e mi sbilancio con ottimismo prevedendo che sarà la filosofia vincente anche de "La Torre Nera".Okay, bando alle ciance.
DISCLAIMER: Many aspects of THE GUNSLINGER ACTION ADVENTURE EXPEDITION are comprised of potentially dangerous activities involving giant cyborgs, possessed buildings, demon rapists and extras from the cast of Deliverance, do you ken it. There is a risk of serious injury, being Roont or even Charyou Tree. Therefore GUNSLINGER KA-TETS WITH DINH ONLY. While training and remembering the face of your father can reduce the inherent risks, Ka is a wheel and they cannot be completely eliminated do you
FIRST EXCURSION: Location: Bear Beam Station  Places of Interest: Shardik’s Cyborg and Wormy Snot ExtravaganzaDescription: Your Ka-tet will find plenty to shoot at when you enter the beautiful old woods of North Central Positronics’ Outdoor Nature Park.
THIRD EXCURSION : Location: Gateway Central  Places of Interest: Dutch Hill Haunted HouseDescription: Check your guns and your Ka and be prepared for the thrill of a life-time as you experience the house on Dutch Hill.
You’ll need all of your skills to work your way past Gasher’s Bridge to the Home of the Tick-Tock Man. Remember Gunslingers, you do not to aim or shoot with your hand and you do not kill with your gun.
So this is book three and here it is, a five star rating.This volume of the Dark Tower brings all of the characters together.
Roland begins to open up, as he gains their trust, and starts to let them in on what his experiences have been and what they can expect as they move forward.Roland, as a Gunslinger, is still very much revered in this land but it is the addition of young Jake to the group that seems to hold the future.
The journey moves along at a faster pace towards the end of the book and yet more characters are introduced.
However, he's also going mad because of a strange double set of memories in his head, memories of a boy he crossed the desert with...The Waste Lands is probably my favorite Dark Tower book and epitomizes what I like about the series.
The ending would have made me furious had I been reading the Dark Tower books as they were published.Notes from the 2011 re-read:The Waste Lands drives home the notion that Roland's world is coming apart at the seams.
He managed to keep me at the edge of my seat for 100 pages, hungry for more, promising my undying love and then, after the climax (the forth drawing), he slightly bores me for the next 100.
Maybe the plot got too intense and he thought we needed a cool down but still, my serotonin levels dropped too much.
The best part of the novel for me was the drawing of the 4th member of the Ka-tet after an adrenaline pumping sequence of evince in both worlds.
The tension of those moments was King at his best.
The three gunslingers follow the Path of the Beam inland to Mid-World.
Roland remembers meeting Jake Chambers in the way station and letting him fall to his death in the mountains (as depicted in The Dark Tower: The Gunslinger).
در این داستان، رولاند، آخرین هفت تیرکش، بیشتر از هر زمان دیگری، به برج تاریک رویاها، و کابوسهایش، نزدیک شده است.
دو شخصیت با نامهای: «ادی دین»، و «سوسانا» نیز، رولاند را، در این دنیا همراهی میکنند.
خطرهای تازه ای، رولاند و همراهان اندکش را، در شهر ویرانه ی «لود»، و سرزمینهای متروک دور و اطراف، تهدید میکنند.
Take the guesswork out of your next vacation!! FORSPECIAL Travels and Tours presents: Lud, the Jewel of the Send Your Guided Mid-World adventure starts here!!Charming Local Accommodations- See the amazing, bumbling Shardik, Mid-World’s largest, comedic bear, searching for picnic baskets- Glimpse (and maybe chat with) an elusive billy-bumbler- Pick some devil grass. We won’t tell.- Chat with the oldest people in Mid-World. Find out what their secret is to long life. (Hint: It’s not yogurt.)Small
Your Guided Mid-World adventure starts here!!Charming Local Accommodations-	See the amazing, bumbling Shardik, Mid-World’s largest, comedic bear, searching for picnic baskets-	Glimpse (and maybe chat with) an elusive billy-bumbler-	Pick some devil grass.
(Hint: It’s not yogurt.)Small Group SizesAuthentic Local Experiences-	It’s Cosplay, every day.-	Lud is a storybook wonderland as the locals re-enact Shirley Jackson’s The Lottery daily.-	Test your skill in the wacky, fun obstacle course-	Groove to the constant ZZ-Top beat-	See the beautiful, one-of-a-kind underground city of neon lights-	Kids of all ages can play riddles with Blaine the Train.
If Blaine wins, you get an electrifyingly special prize.Last chance to book for this family fun vacation!!

12/2/18: Reflecting back on 2018, I have decided to pick my favorite book I read per month to officially come up with my 'best reads of the year list'.
King.Original: Okay, well, I finished this over a week ago and I still don't know how I can possibly review this adequately.
As you know if you are reading this, this is the third book in King's epic Dark Tower series.
Most compelling was the resurgence of my favorite character of this series and it just made me so, so happy!
For me, one thing I always think when reading a book from this series is how absolutely EPIC this story is.
"Behold ye, the return of the White! After evil ways and evil days, the White comes again! Be of good heart and hold up your heads, for ye have lived to see the wheel of ka begin to turn once more!" What a journey! From incomprehensibly horrible to absodamnlutely fantastic to okay.This book was all over the place. Both literally and metaphorically.The first half is more of what we’re given in The Drawing of the Three. That is... a painfully boring story about Roland leaving his wildly interesti
a painfully boring story about Roland leaving his wildly interesting world behind to pick up three annoying travelling companions from different times and places in the city of New York.To clarify for those still in doubt, I fucking hated that shit was slightly disappointed by these developments.About halfway through however, the story steps into a whole new world (literally), and that world is like heaven compared to what has happened so far (to be frank, it wasn’t that good, but hey, after one and a half book of utter boredom you take what you can get).Roland of Gilead assembles his company of gunslingers, and as the quest for the Dark Tower begins in earnest, the ka-tet arrives at the little town of River Crossing.A great civil war - perhaps in Garlan, perhaps in a more distant land called Porla - had erupted three, perhaps even four hundred years ago.
I love that King broke the fourth wall by discussing Jake’s essay about Roland and the Dark Tower and it is this kind of personality that gives this work life and makes it such an enjoyable, page turning book.“In this decayed hole among the mountainsIn the faint moonlight, the grass is singingOver the tumbled graves, about the chapelThere is the empty chapel, only the wind’s home.It has no windows, and the door swings,Dry bones can harm no one.”A great book and series and I am now fully on board.
I certainly liked to read it, and I definitely felt extremely excited about picking it up, however I didn't exactly dream about it while waiting to get the change to pick it up again.Some passages were rather difficult to follow: such as the elders' stories about old Lud. Probably due to my unfamiliarity with the language of this world, not to mention the weirdly fragmented manner people told things, I could hardly wait to get past those sequences.Score: 4/5 starsStephen put it best in his review: the "Shardik-Lud Expedition".Not sure if it's mostly due to the improved writing style, or even just the cliff-hanger ending, but I'm definitely looking forward to the next book.========================Review of book 1: The GunslingerReview of book 2:The Drawing of the Three["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I’ve been through this series so many times over the years I have lost count.
She is also trying to figure out her place in this new strange place.Jake’s drawing into this world is by far my favorite sequence in this whole book.
He represents all that is good and innocent in this world and his relationship with ‘Ake is one of the best parts of the Dark Tower series.Our favorite Ka-Tet is on the Path of the Beam in search of Blaine the Mono.
My favorite interactions are between Roland and Eddie.
Each and every time I read this series I find something new that makes me love them all the more.
As usual I have nothing but positive things to say about this book.
Well, actually there is one negative and that's the ending.
It was of course an incomplete work ending at a climax, however, since it's not 1991 anymore and I do not have to wait years for a new book to come out, I will not fault King for this.
In fact, I will look at it as a positive, for I cannot wait to begin book 4.
It's funny, while reading this you cannot believe how brilliant King's mind is to have the kind of foresight he did in creating this fantasy only to find out he's the first to admit the story wrote itself.
They can call me Loser, or they can call me Winner, just as long as they don’t call me in too late for dinner.” I will probably read the next book in the series while I still remember what went on in this one, but right now I don’t consider it a priority, and I can only echo one of Roland’s exasperated companions, baffled by the nature of the waste lands and the secretive atitude of the gunslinger : “When are you going to tell us what you do know?” Eddie asked the next morning.
You've been warned.The most amazing thing about this book would be the fact that Jake fucking Chambers is back!
If you've read my review of The Gunslinger (book 1) then you'd know how much I love that kid.
Aside from the main quest though, the story ventured out into Jake's life in New York.
Not only did King further developed Jake's character, but he also made him even more likable.
Aside from Jake though, the crew also developed quite well in this third installment.
I like animals in books, so Oy just made it to my favorites list.King wrote one hell of a cliffhanger.
This mission forms the first half of The Waste Lands, it makes for a hair-raising adventure with a very dark undertone, as depicted on the cover of this hardback edition:Don’t worry, I won’t give you much info on what transpires in the equally hectic second half of the book, but it does involve a crazy train (nothing to do with Ozzy).I am tremendously enjoying this Dark Tower series reread; this is the only advantageous aspect of having a memory like a sieve, I can enjoy these books just as much as the first time I read them.

Even though I'm not crazy about this narrator, Frank Muller, I ended up giving my audio re-read of this book an extra star.All my old friends are together again: Roland, Susannah, Eddie, Jack and even Oy.
It's nice re-reading these via audio, even if I have to wait a few weeks in between books while waiting for the next audio book to come in to the library.
This time I don't have to wait years in between books which keeps everything fresh in my mind.
I have to respect a mind that is so wildly imaginative that it can put together a story of this scope.
At least in my book.
I loved this book.
I love the connections between the characters' past lives and between Mid-World and Our When.
I also felt a strong link to other Stephen King books: a mansion in Brooklyn comes to life and it was The Overlook all over again for me.
The middle of the book (the mansion part) was the most amazing part of a completely amazing story.
Also amazing, exciting and full of connections.
S.K. foreshadowed a lot of character and plot development in this book, so thank goodness I don't have to wait six years for Book 4.
Ο Ρόλαντ της Γαλαάδ, από το πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς μας έμαθε ότι για να φτάσει στον προορισμό του μπορεί να κάνει τα πάντα, να υπομείνει τα πάντα να θυσιάσει τα πάντα… ακόμη και όσα αγαπά.
Να όμως που στο βιβλίο «Οι ρημαγμένοι τόποι» τα πάντα σε αυτό το ταξίδι ανατρέπονται, ο Ρόλαντ εκτός από αγάπη (την οποία μπορεί να θυσιάσει), νιώθει ότι έχει και ένα χρέος… και έτσι δίνει μία υπόσχεση, μια υπόσχεση που γνωρίζει ότι είναι αμφίβολο ότι μπορεί να την κρατήσει.
Πλέον όμως δεν είναι μόνος του, η ομάδα των τεσσάρων, αυτή η ενωμένη «κα- τετ» ομάδα, του αποδεικνύει για ακόμη μια φορά πως σημασία δεν έχει μόνο ο προορισμός.
Τρίτο βιβλίο της σειράς και εδώ ο King χτίζει.
Και χτίζει.
Και χτίζει.
Και χτίζει.
Είναι ένα βιβλίο που σε ετοιμάζει για τα επόμενα.
Δεν έχει ιδιαίτερη δράση (εκτός από το τέλος) και σε μερικά σημεία καταντάει και κουραστικό αλλά αυτό δεν μειώνει την αξία του.
Βέβαια από την άλλη, μέσα σε όλο αυτόν τον όγκο του βιβλίου, ο King σε μεταφέρει απόλυτα στα μέρη που διαδραματίζεται η ιστορία και σε βοηθάει να καταλάβεις τον απόκοσμο κόσμο του Ρόλαντ και της παρέας του.Όσο προχωράει η ιστορία, θέλω όλο και περισσότερο να μάθω τι γίνεται με τον Μαύρο Πύργο οπότε σειρά τώρα έχει «Ο μάγος και η γυάλινη σφαίρα».
Για να δούμε…
I honestly think this might just be my favourite book out of this series.
I also thoroughly enjoyed the world building that happened in this book, I feel like this is where King truly starts to hit his stride for this series!
Despite this book being longer than both previous ones, it almost felt like it was shorter because it was just filled with so much action and development, it was hard to stop turning the pages once I picked it up!
I was honestly on the edge of my seat so many times, I lost count and it's left me itching to revisit what happens next!
DTProject2017 | Book 3 It was in August 2012 when I 1st read this book and now (almost) 5 years later, with a better command of the English language I see many things in a much different way than what it was when I was reading it for the 1st time. I saw different landscapes, different views of the city and train station etc. Here we see Roland (The Gunslinger) with the people he drew in the previous book from our world to his world moving towards their destination. Before they reach an abandone
Before they reach an abandoned city the also draw Jake the young boy from New York and with him the core of the fellowship is completed.
A book I 1st read in August 2012 and loved and became an instant favourite.And since I'm talking about favourite(s), my favourite character in the series is Jake, not Eddie or Odetta/Detta/Susannah, or Roland; even though I like them.
Jake is innocent, young, and we see him as a boy with no family (he has a family, but he's alienated from them.

“And I will show you something different from eitherYour shadow at morning striding behind youOr your shadow at evening rising to meet youI will show you fear in a handful of dust” ― T.S. Eliot, The Waste LandReview to come.
I weep for their pain, the looks of anguished horror dawning on their faces as they read that last sentence and realized that, yes, that's the end.
Hopefully their wounds have healed, they have licked their scars and moved on, and forgiven Uncle Stevie for his betrayal of their trust.This book continues where The Drawing of the Three leaves off.
(hide spoiler)]More is revealed about the world Roland inhabits as the group soldiers on.
Eddie and Susannah recognize the vital role they play in these events, and accept their ka.
I love the head smack feeling when you know you should have figured that particular twist out AGES ago in the story.
I don’t love feeling like a drooling infant with no knowledge about anything…..
I don’t get why he ends this book THERE!
I don’t understand why he had to hiccup back and forth between layers and layers of mind fuck, never solidifying anything...AND it makes me feel like a dumbass!
I don’t like feeling like a complete dumbass.I have said it before and I shall say it again, I WILL continue with this series BUT I hope to hell I get some answers soon.
