https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5133.The_Art_of_Seeing
However though I was only about 60% of the way through it is a great work and, so far as I know, describes techniques for healing and improving eyesight that are still far from mainstream, but that work wonderfully.
However, he went from being nearly blind to being able to read without glasses thanks to the techniques described in this book.
If you, or someone you know, is currently wearing glasses, get this book.
Even if your vision is good the content of this book will help you preserve and enhance it.
This book, a description and prescription of the Bates method which Aldous Huxley claimed to have successfully utilized to alleviate his near blindness, is written with a clarity and precision which might well serve as a model for the authors of "owner's manuals" and self-help books. However, although motivated by my own inconvenient myopia and a great respect for Huxley, I found this book ponderously tedious, despite the fine quality of its prose and the occasionally interesting points made about the complex interrelations between mind, body and environment in the highly interpretative act of seeing.
The idea that you can exercise and improve or maintain your vision = good.Doing so by looking at the sun, however briefly = not so much.
My visual acuity improved after reading this book! Today, over twenty years after reading this book, my vision is significantly better than most people in my age group.
Instead of accepting the sunlight easily and as ablessing, they suffer discomfort and even develop an inflammation of the tissues.Hence more pain and a heightening of fear, a confirmation of the false faith that lightis harmful.
They may not start with any a priori terrorof light; but because their seeing organs are strained and defective, owing to habitsof wrong use, their eyes and mind may be incapable of reacting normally to theexternal environment.
Strong light is painful to the tense, strained seeing organs.Because it is painful, a fear of light develops in the mind; and this fear becomes, inits turn, a cause of further strain and discomfort"
Huxley is hooked on something called the "Bates Method" named for the doctor that invented it.
Basically, it recommends that a person often cover their eyes with their palms for a few minutes, practice seeing things far away or near, swing your head around and try to see stuff, and--unbelievably--to "sun" your eyes by looking directly into the sun, albeit for short periods.If this sounds like advice that is very unlikely to cure your failing vision, I think you are right.
I had never heard of it before but because it was by Huxley and looked curious I picked it up.
The book is of interest from three perspectives.First, it discusses techniques for alleviating vision problems.
He was an intelligent writer and it is interesting to read his take on issues that affected him so directly and so significantly.Third, the book has a philosophical and anthropological aspect as it provides insight into early twentieth century thinking on vision, mind-body interaction and similar themes.
In any event, there are numerous ideas of interest and many of them resonate with contemporary thinking about stress and mindfulness.
Huxley maybe should've stuck to fiction.
Painfully verbose, yet simultaneously bereft of information.
I'm researching alternatives to lasik surgery and came across this book.
Huxley's own vision was improved dramatically using the Bates Method, so he wrote this book to promote it.
Written in 1942, much of the information is out of date (such as "sunning" the eyes), but there are suggested exercises that seem to follow logical enough to warrant further research.
Despite the absence of references to empirical studies and as controversial as the Bates Method is, this book piqued my interest just enough to look into it further.
Read the entire book with my pin hole glasses on! Interesting exposition of Dr Bates's theories on the causes and cures of vision problems. Some of the techniques were familiar from vision improvement courses I've tried - with some success. I'm now motivated to go back to them in the hope of ditching my glasses!
things this book tells you how to do:- get rid of a headachethings this book doesn't tell you how to do:- cure myopia
THIS BOOK IS INCREDIBLE
It was very interesting. I stopped reading it because the methods discussed did not apply to macular degeneration.
папвапвапвапва
probably only Aldous could champion this "think outside the box" approach so persuasively, concentrating on exercises to train the eyes rather than the cop-out band-aid approach of prescription spectacles.
it takes both patience & stubbornness to follow his suggestions (& make it thru the book!) & I find it quite amusing to hear that people at dinner parties would be a bit disconcerted to find Aldous suddenly covering his eyes with his hands without a word of explanation.
Huxley was actually able to improve his eyesight a great deal by following the methods he shares here.
I am keen to keep following these little exercises as my eyes get tired after reading usually and this advice works pretty well.
For a man who cured his eyes from severe visual impairment, you have to take these pieces of practical advice and try them properly before judging whether they work."dynamic relaxation" is one of AH's terms which I am fond of.
It's a principle which you can apply to cure your sight, but probably also quite a lot more in life.Why do we lose sight over time?
Why do our eyes feel extremely tired sometimes, after reading?
Not just bad light, but emotional difficulties, anxiety, strain.
Look at the Sun. Swing.
An absolutely personal accomplishment in Huxley's life. Words fail to capture what he actually did. VERY inspiring.
Useful advice, as usual it could have been half pages less if it wasn't for Aldous Huxley's pen.
"El exitoso y ya clásico método de recuperación visual explciado por el célebre escritor británico".Ediciones Renglón.
Tante dritte interessanti, ma resta da vedere quanto siano effettivamente utili. Un buon manuale, da prendere con le pinze.
didn't finish
I really doubt this is effective, read the book and tried some tips but no change at all!
Some interesting stuff and some *really* dodgy stuff. Staring a the sun?!But anyway, some helpful speed reading tips.
Pretty quick and interesting read.
Excelente libro para todas las personas que necesitan/usan anteojos, y si no los necesitan también. Huxley, te queremos.
