https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8203.West_from_Home
This is the collection of those letters and it proves a quick, delightful read for fans of Laura, San Francisco, worlds fairs, or travelogues from times gone by.
As a child, Laura described things for her blind sister Mary and now she described her experiences for Almanzo back home (she also asked him to keep the letters in case she wanted to use any descriptions from them in future writings--she was a columnist at this time, and "West From Home" even includes one of the pieces she wrote about the culinary delights of the Exposition, recipes and all!).
I am not a huge fan of Laura Ingalls Wilder *cringes and hides from the fans* and this book was rather boring, but I gave it 2 stars for interesting historical details.
A lovely little addition to your Little House or Laura Ingalls Wilder collection. My review: West from Home.

Laura Ingalls Wilder, die spätere Autorin des „Little house Books“ besucht zu dieser Zeit ihre Tochter Rose und deren Ehemann in San Francisco.
Wie sie als Kind für ihre blinde Schwester Mary die Augen ersetzte, ersetzt sie sie nun für den in der Ferne weilenden Almanzo und beschreibt lebhaft ihre Reise nach San Francisco und ihre Erlebnisse in der großen, fremden Stadt.Nach dem Tode Rose Wilder Lanes, fand Roger Lea McBride diese Briefe in deren Hinterlassenschaften.
Ihre Tochter Rose brachte es nicht über das Herz die Briefe ihrer Eltern zu lesen, und auch Roger Lea McBride brauchte einige Zeit, bis er sich dazu durchrang und sie 1974 zusammenstellte und veröffentlichte.
A somewhat interesting collection of letters written by Laura ingalls wilder to her husband ( stuck back on the farm ) when she visited her daughter rose in San Francisco in 1915. Some good descriptions of what San Francisco looked like and felt at the time. Lots of description of the worlds fair that was happening at the time in celebration of the opening of the Panama Canal.
This is sort of another installment of the Little House series, as it is Laura's adventures visiting her daughter Rose as told through her letters to Almanzo during that time. I enjoyed witnessing essentially a World's Fair through her eyes, the modern wonders of the time, the beauty of early 20th Century San Francisco, and the comic way both Laura and Rose were such mother hens over everything. It must have been such a time to be alive and to see so much technological change all at once!
Though maybe not part of the Little House canon, it documents the obvious affection the family of three had for one another.
เลมนียิงไมเกียวเขาไปใหญเลยถาไมใชแฟนพันธุแทลอราขนาดนัน คงไมอยากรูเปนเพียงจดหมายบอกเลาการเดินทางไปเทียว (ไปเยียมลูกสาว)ซึงทำงานอยูทีซานฟรานซิสโกและในชวงนันทีนันกำลังจัดงานเทศกาลใหญโตมันเปลียนอารมณไปเลย ไมไดตังใจวาจะอานเรืองแบบนี(แนวสารคดีทองเทียวอะ)เลยออกจะผิดหวังไปหนอย
เล่มนี้ยิ่งไม่เกี่ยวเข้าไปใหญ่เลยถ้าไม่ใช่แฟนพันธุ์แท้ลอร่าขนาดนั้น คงไม่อยากรู้เป็นเพียงจดหมายบอกเล่าการเดินทางไปเที่ยว (ไปเยี่ยมลูกสาว)ซึ่งทำงานอยู่ที่ซานฟรานซิสโกและในช่วงนั้นที่นั่นกำลังจัดงานเทศกาลใหญ่โตมันเปลี่ยนอารมณ์ไปเลย ไม่ได้ตั้งใจว่าจะอ่านเรื่องแบบนี้(แนวสารคดีท่องเที่ยวอ่ะ)เลยออกจะผิดหวังไปหน่อย
If you read Prairie Fires: The American Dreams of Laura Ingalls Wilder then be sure to read some of the actual letters from Laura to Manly written during her visit to Rose in California.
The introduction was about San Francisco, how it was called "Everybody's Favorite City." Poet George Sterling said "at the end of her streets are stars." Very interesting that the Costanoan Indians called the Pacific Ocean Sundown Sea. In Laura's time the fourth side was mostly the Sutro Forest, which was a big stand of eucalyptus trees planted by schoolchildren.The author, which was a friend and executor, found recipes, photographs and newspaper clippings, letters and postcards from Laura to Almanzo, which would be the find of the century.
In addition to seeing her daughter, the other point of the trip was to see the Panama-Pacific Exposition, kind of like a World's Fair thing.
Laura and her husband had a farm in Missouri, and the letters also have a good deal of information about farm things, you can tell she really paid attention to this and adds all sorts of little tidbits about what the soil is like and the prices of farm goods.Grade: B+Recommended: To fans of Laura Ingalls Wilder, and people who like lots of details about daily life during this time period.
I thought of this book as more of a historical document, rather than a Laura Ingalls Wilder story."West From Home" is a series of letters that Laura wrote to her husband Almanzo in 1915 during her trip to the World's Fair in San Francisco.
I also liked the footnotes and introduction that helped to set-up the story for readers.This is a great book for those who are interested in the history of San Francisco, would like to know more about the 1915 World's Fair, or who simply love Laura Ingalls Wilder.
lovely book.Laura sees and goes wading in the pacific ocean for the first time, something her daughter had never done.
i wanted to scream at the kids on the beach w/her "don't you know who that is?!" but she wasn't Laura Ingalls Wilder yet, she was a mom visiting her famous writer daughter and seeing the world's fair, the little fame she had was as a small town newspaper columnist.
rose wilder lane writes henry ford's autobiography during the period these letters are from, ten years before the model t.beautiful descriptions of san francisco and berkeley, wilder sees the first milking machine and navigates market street, her son-in-law is always thisclose to getting a job
This is collection of letters that Wilder sent home to her husband while she was visiting her daughter, Rose, in San Francisco, sightseeing around the area and enjoying the 1915 World's Fair Panama-Pacific Exposition. The letters are heavy with details of the trip and are interesting as an historical account of this particular time and place. What I thought was even more interesting, though, was Wilder's perception of the city, her naivete, and her love for her husband and the Ozarks hills she called home.
Great era-snapshop and description of the fair in San Fransisco, but honestly, I don't think I'd have been all that interested, if it hadn't been seen through the eyes of Laura Ingalls Wilder. I've always wanted to know "what happened next", and this gives a nice look into her curiosity, desire to learn and her relationship with Rose and Almanzo.I was very interested in reading that she and Almanzo had considered moving to New Zealand at one point though. I wish they had - I would have LOVED to read her description of that!
A much greater insight into Laura (Bess/Bessie) and Rose's relationship as mother and daughter. Also the kind of man Gillette, Rose's husband, was. Interesting to read about the writing projects of both mother and daughter.
And somehow with their differing styles, the mother and daughter worked on it as a team.At one stage, Rose writes a secret letter to her father, to tell him that his wife is getting fat!
'The water is such a deep, wonderful blue, and the sound of the waves breaking on the beach, and their whisper as they flow back, is to dream about.' What a great reminder for coastal dwellers like me to never take for granted what we have all year round.Although she loved her time away, Laura's final verdict was satisfaction at the thought of getting home.
Especially since no one today knows of Rose Wilder Lane as a writer – she is only her mother’s daughter, the sweet baby in First Four Years.Through her letters, I now know that Laura felt about Almanzo just the way I hoped she did: “I wish you were here.
“The kangaroos looked just like pictures of them, only more so.”And I see her, with her adult daughter, being just the Laura I always imagined she was (while Rose seems to have a little Mary in her, maybe?): “We went down to the beach where the waves were breaking.
It includes the letters and postcards Laura wrote to Almanzo when she visited Rose in 1915, as well as pictures from the LIW Home and historical documents.
Roger Lea MacBride also provides a comprehensive background, along with annotated information within the letters.I find it sad that Rose found these in 1957 when Laura died, but couldn't bring herself to read them.
She was 48 years old, and Rose was 29.The first letter is Rose enticing Laura to visit.I love that Laura wrote almost daily, if not more.
It made me look up the history of time zones, which I care nothing about.Laura mentions the bathroom in her Ozark home.
This is a book of letters written by Laura Ingalls Wilder from San Francisco to her husband Almanzo.
Laura was visiting their daughter Rose during the Panama Pacific International Exposition in 1915.
Her letters tell about the Exposition, as well as San Francisco, and her visit with Rose and husband Gillette, who were both professional writers.
Laura made a comment in one of her letters about asking Rose for help laying out the books.
As a result of being in San Francisco she writes an article for the Missouri Ruralist.
Her article is about the Food Products Building at the San Francisco Exposition.
Being able to read Laura’s letters to her husband Almanzo is a pretty special way to get a glimpse into Laura’s mind and her later years of life.
It tells of Laura’s visit to San Francisco to see her daughter Rose and the World’s Fair.
And we get a small glimpse at the relationship Laura had with her daughter.
I did feel very indignant at Rose for feeling the need to write a letter to he father about how fat Laura was getting - and such a note!
I have never been able to warm to Rose the way I have Laura but this book is still a treat for fans like me.
I loved this collection of letters and the details and observations that Laura sends home to her husband, Manly.
From her train ride West to San Francisco, particularly her description of the great salt lake, to her first time dipping her toes in the Pacific Ocean and her affinity for boat rides on the bay, it was an absolute delight.
I’m born and raised in Sacramento, I’ve spend a lot of time in SF, and I’m a historian to boot, and I even learned some things from this first hand account about SF and the PPIE.
An excellent book.
I think any Laura fan would enjoy it, or any one who likes travel writing or non fiction about California.
the book has 171 pages, but for some reason goodreads has it listed as a lesser amount, but I will be done with it this week, so I am calling it good.
Laura made some very funny and interesting observations in this book, and her affectionate tone with Almonzo was really wonderful.
There is also quite a bit about Rose in here , as Laura was staying with her obviously, so Rose fans would enjoy this too, I think.
Having read all 9 "Little House" books (which Laura did not write until 17 years AFTER she penned these letters), this little book was a delightful way to revisit Laura, Manly (vicariously), and their daughter Rose.
During this correspondence, Laura-- now called "Bessie" to her family, since Almanzo had a Laura in his family-- has traveled to San Francisco in 1915 to visit Rose, an accomplished and well-known journalist, on the occasion of the World Expo, called the "Panama-Pacific International Exposition," which was an event of staggering proportions celebrating the opening of the Panama Canal.
P.S. The house on Russian Hill-- 1019b Vallejo St., where Laura visited Rose-- still stands, although it is a private residence with not even a plaque of its literary significance.
A few years ago, they decided to empty out what used to be the school library and use it for a church group to meet in.
Wilder traveled to San Francisco to visit her daughter Rose, explore the city and local environs, attend the World's Fair, and learn how to write professionally u ever the guidance of her daughter.
In addition to learning more about the famous author, this is fascinating for not only the firsthand account of one of the most famous events in history, the Panama-Pacific International Exposition (1915 San Francisco World's Fair), but also what life in and around San Francisco was like in 1915.
Exceptional mainly because LIW wrote these letter to Almonzo who had to remain at home while she traveled to San Francisco in 1915. Discovered long after her death, she never knew they would be published in book form & read by fans. Also exceptional for her description of & experiences of the World Fair Expo held in SF that year.
this compilation of letters was fun because it was Laura and Sam Francisco, and so many of the sights she described were very familiar. It also made me think about how much I observe and describe to others when I'm traveling--it was such a different world when she was traveling and she really did a great job sharing the details with Almanzo.
The letters tell a fair story, but not one I had much interest in. It is basically a travel log of Laura's sight-seeing in San Francisco. Doubtlessly would have been far more interesting if it included Almanzo's letters to Laura, as well.
I really enjoyed this collection of letters! It was exciting to see my home city through the eyes of one of my favorite authors, and her letters to Almanzo were like a journey through time. I would definitely recommend this light read to any fan of Laura Ingalls Wilder.
