https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49851.Under_the_Black_Flag
Like a lot of nonfiction, this book tried to cover a lot of material while also attempting to keep the reader engaged. It held my attention most of the time and it did allow me to realize there are pirate books I need to read, Treasure Island being the most notable.
I am a Pirates of the Caribbean fan. An obsessive fan, even. And so, because every obsession of mine eventually reaches a point where I feel compelled to do research, my Pirates fascination led me to this book. This is a fine resource for anyone interested in the history of piracy. I enjoyed the book immensely. It has information on the Golden Age of piracy, famous pirates, and a comparison of fictional pirates with real ones. The author also explores the origins of various pirate movie standbys and other little details that made the period come alive.
For centuries, people have been drawn to stories of adventure on the high seas and peg-legged pirates in search of buried treasure.
In his comprehensive pirate book (focused mainly on 18th century piracy in the Americas and the Caribbean), Cordingly covers everything from women pirates to pirate ships and weapons.
Not for the faint of heart, this text exposes some of the hard truths behind piracy: consequences for captives, punishmens for arrested pirates, the hardships of life at sea.This book's revelations may surprise you; Cordingly frequently analyzes the books, movies, and plays that helped shape our romantic ideas of piracy.
Lettura molto interessante e particolarmente scorrevole per chi, come me, è quasi completamente a digiuno di pirateria (va be' a parte Black Sails).
Inoltre questo procedere per ordine tematico fa sì che le vicende di molti dei pirati citati vengano spezzate e riprese in capitoli differenti senza che però, per un lettore inesperto, sia molto agevole ricordarsi nomi, date e fatti (infatti a fine lettura posso dire di ricordarmi solo delle figure apparse in Black Sails - Vane, Barbanera, Calico Jack, etc.
- e dei nomi già noti come il capitano Kidd o Morgan.
It’s honest, well-rounded and as I said detailed, however there’s a lack of heart in there that withholds the opportunity to make you feel strongly about the pirates or really anyone else.
This ends up creating a lose-lose situation.Another thing I noticed was that the book tends to be disjointed and repetitive in places, even to the point where it feels like you must have read this section already.
And you don’t much feel like finishing something you already left 50 pages ago, especially since it was so lacking in energy the first time around.
A must read for any initiate to maritime or pirate history. Cordingly is an eminent authority in pirates and buccaneers, but his pedagogue does not prevent him from creating a precise, fun, and understandable book to the beginner. Even those who’ve already enjoyed numerous works would still find some new information, or new sources, in this work. If you’ve ever wondered whether pirates really had a parrot keening for doubloons on their shoulder, or what the difference between corsairs, privateer
Cordingly is an eminent authority in pirates and buccaneers, but his pedagogue does not prevent him from creating a precise, fun, and understandable book to the beginner.
Even those who’ve already enjoyed numerous works would still find some new information, or new sources, in this work.
If you’ve ever wondered whether pirates really had a parrot keening for doubloons on their shoulder, or what the difference between corsairs, privateers, pirates, and buccaneers is, then this is the book for you.
It’s very rarely dry and always informative.
This book is appropriate for ages 13 and up.
Engagingly written, thoroughly researched and with plenty of endnotes, this turned out to be exactly what I was looking for in an overview of piracy in the 17th and 18th centuries.
Cordingly's bibliography led me to such works as Captain Charles Johnson's extremely influential (and contemporary) account A General History of the Pyrates, the works of Peter Earle, and Nicholas Rodger's writings about the Royal Navy, so I'm indebted to him for that.
Cordingly compares the pirates of fiction with the pirates of reality, and this is the weakest part of the book, particularly where he attempts rather awkwardly to explain why we're all so fascinated with the romance of piracy.
I'm reading alot of reviews that claim this is more scholarly than entertaining. Rubbish. Only if you have the attention span of a goldfish will you not enjoy this captivating account of the golden age of piracy. Not only does the author stay true to history, but he covers the origins of romanticized pirate life and how much of it is actually reflected by reality. This is a most amazing work by a most amazing expert on pirates.
I liked this.
It is the 2nd nonfiction pirate book I've read within a few days of each other.
I found most of this fascinating.
The history of pirating was well researched and presented in an interesting way.
There was some repetition, but that didn't bug me so much because I was enjoying most of it.
The West Indies was the place not to be if you wanted to avoid pirates.
I also like how the author included modern day pirates into this book.
That always helps when tons of new info is part of the book.
Volume molto interessante. E' diviso in tematiche e ripercorre l'età dell'oro della pirateria per argomenti. Il fatto che non illustri la storia in maniera tradizionale può all'apparenza creare confusione, ma lo stile narrativo rende la lettura decisamente piacevole.
La figura del pirata è una di quelle più chiaramente impresse nell'immaginario collettivo: pappagalli, gambe di legno, tesori nascosti, uncini e Jolly Roger che sventolano, uomini bruti che incarnano - loro malgrado - un ideale di libertà.Ecco, partendo proprio dalla figura "letteraria" del pirata, Cordingly sfata alcuni miti e racconta quella che è stata l'età d'oro della pirateria e lo fa usando tantissime fonti: dall'imprescindibile General history of the Pirates del capitano Johnson (che non è certo sia stato uno pseudonimo di Defoe) alle trascrizioni dei processi, dei diari di bordo, degli articoli di giornale, dei resoconti dei confessori che accompagnarono i pirati al patibolo.
Con una bibliografia ricchissima, Cordingly ha realizzato un testo perfettamente divulgativo in cui grande accuratezza storica ricostruisce un'epoca (con approfondimenti su tutti gli aspetti della vita dei pirati) e racconta le vite dei suoi più celebri protagonisti in maniera appassionante.
nothing but nonsense and mundane trivia here: the thesis of this book seems to be that, get this, pirates were not the cool characters they have been portrayed as by literature, art, and media.
No shit!
Not discussed is much of anything of actual interest about the pirates lifestyles, motives, social organization, etc., which, when contextualized by the parallel institutions in society at large, is nothing short of fascinating.
Perhaps try the new book about how pirates were both mere merchants, as well as forerunners of democracies to come in their means of organizing the ships' chain of command...
I feel slightly bad about giving it only two stars, I liked it fine, it had some good stuff in it, but it's soemthing irritating about a book that is fluffed up to be a book when it just should have been a good long article. There are repetitions, stretchings and digressions...I guess the author was under editorial pressure to fill pages. Kindof a shame. Totally decent writing,intereseting subject, just too fluffed up.
so, great book!Some interesting factoids:-----------------------* Captain Morgan sued publishers of a tell-all book, written by a former buccaneer portraying him as a bloodthirsty murderer.* Ching Shih, China's female pirate, commandeered a confederation of 50,000 ships - larger than most countries’ navies.* Black Beard raided Charlestown, and had it under siege for 5 days.
Three years later, that number was halved.* King George I pardoned all pirates in 1717 with a proclamation so successful, 300 pirates voluntarily surrendered in Jamaica alone.* British navy squadrons converted many defeated pirate vessels into warships* "The horrors of the slave trade are well-known, but what is not so well-known is that white seamen died in the same proportion as black slaves.
If you're interested in the difference between corsairs (Mediterranean pirates) and buccaneers (Caribbean pirates), or stealth gaming 17th century style, then this is definitely the book for you. It's a dry read, but filled with valuable, concisely written information that disproves most of the beliefs one might have regarding a swashbuckling, romantic life on the seas."Pirates of the Caribbean" only existed in the movies :)
Probably closer to 3.5 stars, but whatever. This is a good survey/intro to the Fact vs Fiction of piracy. "Here is a myth about pirates, and here are two places it might have come from but basically it's crap." It's not particularly deep and it has no narrative, but it's well-researched and would make a good starting point for people who, just saying, might be writing fanfiction about pirates.
The book was interesting, but after a while it started to become monotonous. I liked the literary analysis and how literature and history came together on some aspects.
There are numerous reports of Greek and Roman pirates and in South American ports today it is not uncommon for slow merchant vessels with containers to be boarded by crew from fast small river boats who seem to know precisely which containers contain the most salable merchandise, break into them, take what they want and are long gone.
The crews of today's ships are so small, and the vessels so large, and the risks so great that usually little resistance is offered.
It could be very profitable for an enterprising captain sovereign who then returned a share to captain and crew.
The British, French, and Spanish were tied up with the War of the Spanish Succession, and private merchants were mostly concerned with keeping costs low, so hired bare-bones crews for their ships who couldn't effectively mount a defense against attack.After the war's end in 1713, the British finally got serious by offering rewards for captured pirates and doubling the number of naval ships in the hemisphere (which didn't take much, there were only 9 warships in all of North America and the Caribbean combined before then).
Piracy became a much more minor problem after 1725.Walking the plank didn't really happen, but marooning was totally a thing.
In Under the Black Flag (1996), David Cordingly looks at the reality of the golden age of piracy.Cordingly covers most everything there is to know about pirates.
Famous pirate captains, life among the pirates, tactics, treasure, ships, trials and executions, and the reasons for the end of the golden age of Caribbean piracy are all included.
That said, I still enjoyed the book and recommend it.If you're looking for real history about pirates and are curious about how the modern myths started, Cordingly's Under the Black Flag is an excellent book, and I recommend it to any with an interest in piracy or the Age of Sail.
Eurocentric and I ended up skimming around to find the good parts (lady pirates, gay pirates, and cartography).
He focused so much on books written about pirates that this book would have been better if it was labeled as a 'popular culture summary on pirates' or 'trivia on pirates' or a 'critique on the literature and entertainment concerning pirates'but it is not a history on pirates.I enjoyed some of the topics, like female pirates, the democracy pirates created, the descriptions of their island domains, but these topics were so short and the characters were barely described.
Both were interestingly enough raised as boys which made me think of another book I had read The Underground Girls of Kabul: In Search of a Hidden Resistance in Afghanistan.
This book also talked about girls who were raised as boys and how this affected them.
An invaluable resource! As I'm in the midst of editing my YA pirate fantasy novel, I find that this book has provided me with even greater insight, much needed to help bring some realism to the whole thing. If you're interested in learning the more brutal truths beneath pirate lore, I highly recommend giving this book a try. Engaging and well researched, it is a must read!
David Cordingly's book is an excellent resource on privateers, pirates, corsairs and other ne'er-do-wells on the high seas.
But still, Pirates!Cordingly digs up the reality, drags it into the light and out of the shadows of legends and off the page and silver screen.
Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum!Cordingly fittingly ends the book with the end of the age of pirates.
The Royal Navy cracked down hard, with more powerful ships and men on patrol for pirates, and the Crown added legal firepower to hold trials locally instead of only back in England.
Not a bad book if you want to know about Anglo-American pirates in the 1600s and 1700s (no surprise given the author is British).
You won't see the Barbary pirates explained.
To be fair the book is more about the Pirates we (as in English speaking people) love best, and so it works best when discussing certain famous figures such as Morgan and Kidd.
So perhaps it is best Cordingly did not dig much deeper.Strangest part of the book?
His discussion of why women like pirates.
It reads like he has a lot of painful experience in this regard!
This is an entertaining, breezy read on the history of piracy. The book's focus covers the entire globe, from the Mediterranean to the Caribbean to the Far East. It's not particularly deep or engrossing, but if you're looking for a good introduction to the subject this book will do the job. 3.5 stars, recommended.
Cordingly covers the golden age of piracy, around 1650-1726 or so, as well as many infamous pirates like Blackbeard, Captain Kidd, Calico Jack, Anne Bonny, Mary Read, and more.
While she is less known than Anne Bonny and Mary Read, but she was certainly more successful than the two of them.I wish I had read more novels by Cordingly, this is the first, because then I would have some of his other works to compare this book to.
I'd recommend this novel to anyone with an interest in pirates, especially those of the Caribbean, or just anyone over 13 looking for a good historical book.
"The sheer numbers involved in some of Cheng's attacks make the activities of the pirates in the West Indies pale into insignificance...her forces went into action with several hundred vessels and up to two thousand pirates!" I was also surprised to learn that one of the most successful pirates operating in the West Indies was Bartholomew Roberts (Black Bart) who was infinitely more successful than Blackbeard or Captain Kidd but who has not received as much recognition.The book contains information on everything related to piracy including their ships, flags, methods of fighting, marooning, imprisonment, executions, and on and on.
Many of Sabatini's novels were made into successful films including Captain Blood, The Sea Hawk, and The Black Swan.Overall, only a mild recommendation for this one but it would probably be of interest to anyone wanting to learn more about the history of piracy.
This is a decent fact-based exploration of piracy, but it is a bit on the dry side.
He also talks quite a bit about Treasure Island and how that novel in particular established a lot of now-popular pirate tropes (i.e., the wooden peg leg, a pet parrot, walking the plank, a treasure map with an X).
So, now I want to read Treasure Island.
It seemed everything was described in the same matter-of-fact dry manner, which got old after a while.
This is a good resource, though, for facts on pirate life based on the existing primary evidence.
Errol Flynn and Robert Louis Stevenson are discussed alongside the dark, often cruel reality of pirate life.
One criticism I must raise is the author's decision to break the book up into subjects: one chapter on pirate boats, another on island haunts, trials and executions, etc.
This is comprehensive, but makes the reading experience a bit bumpier than necessary.
I cannot help thinking a chronological approach would've allowed for a more narrative-friendly outlay of information; as-is the book often feels like a mere list of dates and locations.
Overall, though, still a solid read, especially as an introduction to the subject of piracy.
