https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23203252-a-shadow-bright-and-burning
“Now, listen, Miss Howel. I’ve never seen another girl who could do what you’ve done, and I’ve searched for four years. I’ve never met another sorcerer who could burn and walk away unscathed.” Maybe five or so years ago this book stood a chance. But, come on, there's not a single thing in A Shadow Bright and Burning that we haven't all seen before.Limited world-building and a plethora of potential love interests fuel this derivative Victorian fantasy. It begins with a familiar premise: an orpha
But, come on, there's not a single thing in A Shadow Bright and Burning that we haven't all seen before.Limited world-building and a plethora of potential love interests fuel this derivative Victorian fantasy.
It begins with a familiar premise: an orphaned, mistreated girl called Henrietta lives a miserable existence until she is discovered by a sorcerer who claims she is a prophesied chosen one.
I guess if you're still not over the whole "special chosen girl fights monsters and flirts with boys" thing, then this could work more for you.
(4.5) Full video book review here: https://youtu.be/TDJD6KBqHJk
Fun, solid beginning to a new fantasy series! I'm fascinated by he magical hierarchy. Here's my full booktalk/discussion: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkg7j...
If you have little to no experience with fantasy novels, A Shadow Bright and Burning will shine like a star through your eyes.But if you do, its true nature will surface and you will see this book as what it actually is: a poorly written book that stands for the unique reason that it’s made of dozens of elements taken from dozens of different novels.If you’ve read The Infernal Devices, The Vampire Diaries, Grave Mercy or literally anything exceptional with magic or supernatural elements, don’t bother with this one.She’s trying, the author really is trying.
It isn’t bad because, again, she’s playing it safe.

From there, the already interesting early Victorian England--this version plagued by seven Ancients that walk and talk and quack like demons--expanded into a spectacular alternate version of our own world with sharp-toothed faerie dressmakers, tricksy, not-to-be-trusted-but-oh-so-charming Magicians, estates gifted by fae royalty, yet still recognizable by the ugly, ugly prejudice.
*flares nostrils*  (hide spoiler)]But those times are few and far between, and only warrant comment as explanation for my 4.0, not 5.0, star rating.Overall, A SHADOW BRIGHT AND BURNING by Jessica Cluess, the first installment of her KINGDOM ON FIRE YA fantasy series, was a delightful surprise, and I very much enjoyed this fantastical version of early Victorian (NOT steampunk) England.
This would've increased tension if I actually had something to care about or if it didn't happen every other freaking chapter).I absolutely love other stories about magicians/sorcerers that are also set in Victorian England (like Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell, The Amulet of Samarkand, The Infernal Devices, etc) and this really reminded me of those books plus Harry Potter.
The author had some interesting ideas, but was SO incredibly cautious about the whole thing that it was like every fun part of the story hid in the background and timidly poked its head in every few chapters to politely apologize for existing.
I mean why else end the book on a chapter with Henrietta just talking with him?
But I love the concept of being trapped in another world and then released to wreak havoc.I have a theory who R'hlem really is, I had it about halfway through the book (view spoiler)[he's totally Henrietta's dad, which reminds me of Infernal Devices/Mortal Instruments if she's related to villain (hide spoiler)].5 amazing stars.
I want to read this book so badly I'd set myself aflame.
And I don't know if the book was, like, totally allergic to female characters, but there is literally ONE.
Because everyone in this book is in love with Henrietta.
wft man (hide spoiler)].(B) Blackthorn was obviously the normal sexist, self-centred, snob of an sorcerer's apprentice BUT NOOOOO HE'S REALLY SWEET ON THE INSIDE; nah, I just wanted to punch him, mate.(C) Rook, the childhood BFF who was actually attacked as a child so he has horrific scaring and chronic pain and HE KIND OF CONTROLS SHADOWS AND STUFF AND IS FAN-FRIKKIN-TASTIC AWESOME.
And I felt Henrietta got less awesome with her personality as the book progressed.
(hide spoiler)]I wouldn't mind a change in characters if it was done gradually and properly, not because the author just wanted to move the plot forward at whatever cost.Special snowflake fact four: Did you read the annotation?
I wanted a girl who was prophesied to be the one and only, but turned out the wrong person, and in order to prove herself she's worth something, she fights evil with ordinary magicians like herself, and on her path she makes mistakes, falls in love, develops friendships and so on.
Plus, I can predict which major events are going to happen in book two, and I don't even need special powers for it.
She thinks, or at least hopes, that no one will notice that she’s using magicians' techniques rather than sorcerers'.The promotional description for A Shadow Bright and Burning proclaims that Henrietta “meets her fellow sorcerer trainees, handsome young men eager to test her powers and her heart.
Some of their names are amusing, if heavy-handed, clues to their nature: The abusive Mr. Colegrind (who runs the aptly named Brimthorn School for Girls), the devious Master Palehook, the wealthy, distant (and distinctly Mr Darcy-like) Blackwood, the brave and dashing Magnus, and so forth.Jessica Cluess creates an intriguing world in A Shadow Bright and Burning, with Lovecraftian monsters running roughshod over Victorian society, but her writing style here, although smooth, is a little simplistic for older readers.
DNF @ 31%honestly, I’ve lost all interest and I’ve never been so bored. might pick this back up in the future, might not, who knows at this point. the only bright point was magnus I guess. I tried to read this for 12 days and it’s just not working.a pal read™
Really good debut from Jessica! I love the more fantastical take on England. And obvs, anything with witches and soccerours I am going to love! A burning YA novel that stands for equality, inner strength and embracing your insecurities!
I really enjoyed reading it with my friends, but the book itself did not entirely please me.A Shadow Bright and Burning is a new take on a beloved (or infamous) trope in YA: the Chosen One. The heroine, Henrietta Howell, is believed to be one who will save England from seven powerful monsters called the Ancients.
Filled with political, magical, and romantic drama, this novel is fun to read, especially if you love fantasy.This book struck me as fascinating particularly because it enforced a dichotomy between magicians and sorcerers.
:3In the end, I enjoyed this book mostly because I read it with my friends.
Dnf at 30%This was utterly unoriginal and boring. An assortment of love interests, bland writing, super special MC, and lack of world building. It's more of the same stuff we all know.One extra star because I liked how she named her magic wand "porridge."
But, after I stared at the cover for a good 15 minutes I decided that I wasn't going to leave it on my tbr pile any longer.Henrietta is a 16 year old that can burst into flame.
I probably already mentioned this before but the cover is gorgeous.This book didn't really have a complex plot but it was still entertaining to read.
Throughout the book we get to know more about Henrietta's past and the history about the war with the Ancients.As far as recommendations go, this probably wouldn't be my first choices but who knows?
Fantasy and magic are always hit or miss with me, but I was excited about the synopsis and couldn't wait to get it in my handsI love love loved Henrietta.
She's smart and strong and stands up for what's right, even if society thinks it's wrong.
I enjoyed being in her head and was rooting for her from the very beginning.
There's a good cast of characters here and I'm eager to see how they show up in future books.
I loved the world building and all of the magic.
I can't wait to see what's next.
4.5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:L.M. - Bright ShadowGenre: historical fantasy, YAStuff: magic, creepy beasts, superpowersFail: writing style, romance in generalWOW: hot scene with one of LI, a few twistsPOV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: hardQuote-Core:  “Knowledge is as powerful as fire. The brigh
Let's go...This is a story about a very special and still generic Mary Snowflake called Henrietta Howel.
I enjoyed Magnus's flirtations, and the scene with (view spoiler)[him kissing Howel was extremely hot, but right after the author made an idiot of this characters only to be back for his old self in a matter of one chapter.
(hide spoiler)] Nice trope, but Blacky is boring.Funny thing is, MC's was average at the start of the novel, but in a while became the most beautiful chick of London (the world?) and everyone got under her spell.
With enchanting displays of magic, complex and untrustworthy characters, terrifying beasts, brooding love interests, and a lovely time period, this book has so much going for it.England is plagued by Ancients, horrifying beasts that plot to lay waste to all of England and wreak havoc on the people.
Jessica also creates a fascinating magical world, which I loved learning about.
I love that Jessica doesn't paint any of these characters as all good or all bad.
I feel like it's a great way to build character.
Either way it's entertaining, and I can't wait to see where Jessica takes it.
At first the first few chapters were a struggle, and I kind of wanted to put it down. I am extremely glad I didn't do this! I feel like this is Pride and Prejudice mixed with Harry Potter! It was exciting for most of the book, and Henrietta is a great character. The magic was a-a-amazing, and the romance in the book has not really taken form yet, but there are definitely 2 possibilities, but I am actually hoping for one of the other boys who is very Mr. Darcy like!!! Full review on my blog https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
I loving all the books I am reading lately about strong, independent woman thinking outside the box and being far ahead of their time.
I just use a different name based on her relationship with said individual Howel & Magnus: From the get-go, these two had a gather easy-going camaraderie.
"I didn't know how lonely I was," he said as we bowed, "until I had you on my side."  And Blackwood becomes the first and only person with whom Howel herself reveals her true nature to.
As Howel said, what they have is not love.
I read this book in one sitting, no joke.
She's a wonderful strong female character and I liked her throughout the whole book.I absolutely loved the boys at school, each it's own character that plays a part in the story.
I loved each of their voices and what-not.There is so much to this story that I'm sorry I didn't pick this book up sooner!
I can't wait for book two and can't wait to read more about each of these characters.I was pleased at the twist and turns of the story I totally didn't see coming, I so appreciate the romance, it is so complicated that I'm so unsure of where it's going to go with whom and how it's all going to unfold.
What is it with all these historical fantasy novels trying to ruin my life over the past year??????Henrietta is amazing, ballsy, clever, and imperfect.
She wears pretty dresses, battles otherworldly demons, and isn't afraid to put a man firmly in his place.
There are too many men and it's pretty much totally ok for once.
(I love the Lovegrove books but I always felt there was too much magical folk **** going on.
Like yes, we get it, this isn't a Care of Magical Creatures course curriculum.) The ANCIENTS ARE....I want fanart.
And he isn't even the worst.
- it was weird and didn't work tbh - she literally blushed at seeing a guys elbow - S C A N D E L O U S- I literally hated the main character - she's the cliche "i'm not pretty but every boy finds me pretty" - there's a character named after a guy i'm crushing on so like that's the only thing i liked????- I really just wanted to punch everyone- I N F O D U M P - It was at the info dumb i was done, so done - she also named her magical weapon porridge?- i wish i was kidding - literally porridge - yeah, I don't really remember anything else do this story just that i really didn't want to read it today - like to the point i drank 4 cups of tea to avoid it - if someone would like to donate their physical copy of this book so i can burn it, i would kiss your feet - thank you So, to summarise.
It was as if the author reached into my brain, picked out everything I love in a book and put it all together in one story, just for me!
It's insane, not even does it have all the elements that I love in a book, but it also has the right amount of each.
If you like any of the following things read this book now!Magic!Ancient mysterious monsters!Great, well developed friendships and relationships!Love Triangles!
(Not a large part of the book, if that's not your thing)Quirky Teachers!Victorian London!Mystery!Prophesies!Cute boys!Buy, Borrow or Bin Verdict: BuyI can't wait to read the next book immediately!Check out more of my reviews here
Sounds like thisbut in a female version set in Victorian London with sorcerers.HELL. YEAH.
It is exactly what it promises its readers—a powerful female MC, swoony boys, and fantastical magic—all set in Victorian London.
This book gave me so many Howl's Moving Castle feels with its steampunky and enchanted world.
The writing has an old world charm with magic laced throughout the words.
Can you tell the magic was my favorite part of this book?
xDThere are multiple ship options in this book and it makes my heart a little wary.
Despite there being multiple ship choices, romance is definitely on the backburner in this story.
The book mainly focuses on Henrietta—our heroine—learning more about herself and her powers.
I actually liked Henrietta as a main character and that doesn't happen often with me and female characters.
There were a couple things that bothered me just in general about the time frame and stuff because it's set in London, but with magicians and sorcerers and witches, so it was unclear about whether or not the queen was THE Queen Victoria or just some random queen happened to be named Queen Victoria.
I loved the characters and felt like there was definitely some character development, and I enjoyed it very much.Overall it was so close to 5 stars but because there were a few uncertainties leftover by the time I finished, I'd give it a solid 4 1/2 stars.
THIS WAS SO GOOD HOLY COW.This book was like Avatar the last Airbender if it was set in 1700's London AND I DIDNT KNOW HOW MUCH I NEEDED IT.I can't remember the last time I gasped out loud so many times while reading a book.
Honestly though.The story was action packed and engaging right from the start and somehow managed to keep up the pace throughout the entire book.
Cluess built such an interesting world, I was blown away by it all.
I have so many unanswered questions and SO much excitement for the rest of this series.
Easily one of my favorites for the year.
