https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13276140-an-ars-ne-lupin-omnibus
This book is terribly funny and will appeal to Holmes fans. I'm amazed it's not better-known.
Tremendous fun.The four books in this omnibus offer us four different takes on the character of Arsène Lupin.
The third book is a well-paced adventure set in the First World War with Lupin arriving late on, almost as a deux ex machina, to unravel the mystery.
Finally we have a collection of stories in which Lupin us almost a young, energetic, amorous Hercule Poirot.As I say, tremendous fun, very readable and all due credit both to the author and the translator.
A thoroughly enjoyable collection, worth a look for The Eight Strokes of the Clock alone. As a Holmes fan I can't quite bring myself to like Arsene Lupin versus Holmlock Shears, but I can appreciate a decent mystery when I see one; not necessarily enough to recommend it by itself though. The Golden Triangle is where long-form starts to suit Lupin, though it works more as an adventure than as a particularly airtight mystery. And The Confessions of Arsene Lupin are a decent starting point for some of the character's less law-abiding adventures, with a lot of charm and action.
An omnibus of four Arsene Lupin novels, this is exactly what I expected it to be: young sleuth and gentleman Arsene Lupin at his very best behaviour as he steals things he likes and solves crimes and mysteries. A mix of detective stories and closed-room mysteries and thefts, Lupin is a fascinating character who was created to steal some of the glory of Sherlock Holmes and did so wonderfully.
Перфектен лидер и абсолютен мотиватор, който ме хваща страх какви ще ги надроби в наши дни, където с помощта на глобализацията, свободния интернет и ордите лесно манипулируеми овчици, паричките ще скачат директно в Люпеновския тиган, без последния да се развълнува прекомерно много от някое мисловно усилие.Във времената на последната наивност и чистота, когато мъжете са блестели с храброст и страсти, а жените са припадали и огъвали краченца пред полъха на каквато и да било опасност или просто промяна в пейзажа, историите за Люпен са приказни авантюристични пътешествия, в които главният герой сменя бързо места и лица с добрите и лошите образи, помагайки и едновременно вземайки на всемирен подбив който и да е полицай, спасявайки винаги минимум една удивително красива дама от безподобно заколение, и отнасяйки в последните редове поне една торба скъпоценности за вечното хранилище.

This is, I think, a collection of four books of Lupin stories which vary in quality. Overall, it is still enjoyable read, but the longer stories suffer from being so, and I found some of the old fashioned morals a bit off-putting as they are generally from Lupin himself, or those we are meant to side with. If you do get the book, don't read the chapter titles in the contents page as there's a rather larger spoiler in there.
If you like Hercule Poirot, you will like Arsene Lupin. I don't think the Lupin mysteries are quite as deft as Poirot, and sometimes not all the threads come together, but the characters and the delicious interplay between the detective and his greatest and most admired criminal genius are really enjoyable.
I've read about 100 pages of this. I thought it was fun and quite enjoyed it, but now I've got the sense of what it's about and how it's written, I don't feel any need to carry on with it.
One of my favorites character since a long time, great reading!
