https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1793037.The_General
Can you sympathize with someone who gets a lot of people killed?Herbert Curzon is a Major in the British army when WWI breaks out.
Going into WWI, Curzon ends up in a calvary regiment.
Someone had to do the job and Curzon was at the right place at the right time.
There's something inherently sad about a "great man" who's past it.Unfortunately there were a lot of real life Curzons in WWI and their ignorance got a lot of men killed.
I think, above all else, that may have been Forester's real reason for writing The General.
Curzon’s values, expertise and leadership abilities enable him to, literally, “win the first battle of the next war” – and then lose every subsequent battle as conditions change in ways to which he is constitutionally unable to adapt.The General is essentially a character sketch, and in episode after episode exemplifying the type of person that Curzon represents, Forester hits home again and again.
This wider message is a bitter indictment of the type of system that cultivated, encouraged and promoted men like Curzon and was ultimately unable to learn from the disasters that they wrought.
It follows the story of a fictitious British general, Herbert Curzon, from the beginning of his career in the Boer War, through his rise in rank and position during WWI.
His rise is very much by chance and over the bodies of his troops.
It tells a dire story of WWI in a matter-of-fact way, very much like Forester's story of The Ship, which follows a British convoy during WWII.
I have enjoyed a great deal of Forester's stories, especially his Hornblower series.
He is versatile and tells interesting, entertaining, thoughtful stories.
Well worth reading if you want a perspective of WWI, especially from the leadership perspective.
I’ve read this book three times since I was a new 2nd Lieutenant in the US Army, and there is always something new to be found to exemplify the seemingly endless struggle of the military professional against the military bureaucrat.
“The General” is one of those books that deserves a place on the shelf of every leader in uniform as a warning.The Great War (WW I) is a historical trauma that seems best experienced through fiction or poetry.
At times, reading “The General” feels like you’ve stumbled into a Kurt Vonnegut novel with all its intentional absurdity.
The General has achieved a recent notoriety as the book White House Chief of Staff (for now) General John Kelley reads after every promotion.
What we have is a lean, ironic, and acerbic picture of an exemplar of British military leadership during the First World War. Our protagonist, Curzon, is a cavalry officer of the old school: Red-faced, energetic, stiffly honorable, utterly unimaginative.
Death before comprehension, for this general.The kindle edition has a solid introduction by Max Hasting, placing it in historiographic context of interpreting the first World War, the popularity of generals like Haig at the time, and their subsequent erasure as donkeys and butchers.
Local opinion in Bournemouth ‘is inclined to give Sir Herbert more credit than he has really earned, although perhaps not more than he deserves.’ That ambivalent, cryptic observation then leads into a flashback that covers almost the entire book.The ‘virtual biography’ stems from the style and point of view of the writing: ‘The day on which Curzon first stepped over the threshold of history, the day which was to start him towards the command of a hundred thousand men, towards knighthood – and towards the bath-chair on Bournemouth promenade – found him as a worried subaltern in an early South African battle.’At the time, Curzon was in the cavalry fighting the Boers.
It's good, on the centennial of World War I (the Battle of the Somme started July 1, 1916) to reflect on the carnage, to ponder how the British lost -- threw away -- a generation of young men on futile trench warfare.
It seems true enough, even as fiction, to explain the four years of repetitive, appalling trench warfare, and in C.S. Forester's telling its candid, well-explained, vivid.It's perhaps more poignant to reflect on that, the red poppies in the lapels every Nov. 11, since it represents the irreplaceable loss of human potential and materiel, money and men they couldn't afford to lose, but did -- and Herbert Curzon is the reason why.
This is a truly interesting study in fictional format of the "Leadership Mentality" that was embedded within the British High Command during World War I.
Well worth reading, Forester has captured with a strong sense of culture, attitudes, education and the impact of "Empire," the multiple forces and influences that produced the British Military Leadership leading to such horrific Battles as the Somme in July 1, 1916 and Passchendaele July 11, 1917.
Simply put. Superb. I read the Hornblower series, and collect them, so i thought I'd start on the rest. Wasn't keen on Payment Deferred. But this is excellent. Stood he test of time, and in this centenary year of the First World War, should be read.I wonder with hindsight whether Forester realised he'd missed a trick in not writing a series about Curzon, and that led him to Hornblower. In comparison to Hornblower though, The General is a very serious and worthy novel.
About halfway through this book right now. The story is compelling, and the insight into the life of a British Military Officer around WWI is helping me to better understand how the war became what it did.
Engaging.
A view of military politics we don't often see.
Sad but true. Ours it but to do and die.
Yes Curzon is unimaginative and emotionally limited but he is actually a superb leader of front line troops, a virtue that gets washed away given the reality of the war.
His marriage is touching in its inarticulateness and the satire of his aristocratic in laws is quite good - the horrible duchess- as is the tragic poignancy of the lower class family that curzon thought he had left behind.
Curzon did his duty.
I thought Forester could have given him a slightly better valedictory than the abrupt transition from his wounding to a final scene in retirement as an amiable invalid.
reads this book every year, or every time he starts a new assignment so, being familiar with Forester from his Hornblower novels I was curious about this novel, not being familiar with it.
It was written in the 1930s and has as a protagonist Herbert Curzon, who rises from the rank of captain in the British Army during the Boer War to Lt. General in World War I, in command of 100,000 men.
In this novel he is the symbol of British leadership that led millions of British and Commonwealth soldiers to their deaths in World War I.
This novel, besides being a good read and an excellent historical primer, is a classic in leadership.
It's a novel in the form of a biography covering the life of a fictional British soldier, and eventual WWI General, Herbert Curzon.The book is a lesson in misplaced patriotism, blind overconfidence, and overlooked incompetence.
To Curzon, soldiers were simply tools of war.
He surrounded himself with "yes" men.
Most of all, nothing trumped his desire to win, regardless of the costs both in terms of money and men's lives.
Although the book is fiction and the author never served in the military, there are numerous accounts of WWI soldiers and officers reading the book and marveling at how accurately it depicted the war.
A very well done character study of a "soldier's soldier" who was in this novel one of the UK's top generals in WWI.
Key insights include the premium the army places typically on soldiers obeying their commanding officers and the "survivor's bias" tending to confirm in surviving and successful officers their own infallibility until they actually don't survive/become a casualty.
A rather abrupt ending but perhaps intended to be--otherwise a very readable account.


A withering indictment of the senior generals and staff officer 'donkeys' who led the junior officers and enlisted 'lions' of the first World War. Easy to read and hard to put down.
I think it is an important book and one that should be mandatory reading by all diplomats as well as soldiers.
To mangle a cliche, it is a literary train wreck -- no matter how hard you try, you can't look away.
I read Forester's Hornblower series as a boy and only found this book much later.
I think it is Forester's best work.
General Ray Kelly rereads this book everytime he takes on a new position because of the many lessons it has within. If one wants to see how arrogance, politics, and an inflated sense of self can cause military leadership to sacrifice the lives of the soldiers they lead in WWI. It was as if the troops were no more than cattle going to slaughter then read this book. Combine this with an inability to recognize that tanks and machine guns will change the nature of warfare and you wonder how the British can succeed in anything
It's really amazing how a book can take you to a different time and place. General Herbert Curzon is just your typical soldier - courageous, loyal, and ambitious. The interesting part is that there is nothing interesting about him at all but you'll get hooked.Since I'm exploring different genre, I'm happy to bump into Forester at the #BigBadWolfBooksPH. And even though that this was written way back in the 1930s, Curzon depicts a message that is still very timely today.
Forester breaks a lot of narrative rules, by telling instead of showing, but this tale of failure is still very compelling. The overall story is of a General who, despite his own bravery and dedication, causes innumerable tragedy due to hardheadedness, unimaginative attritionist thought, and the inability to adapt. Beyond that, it explores a class system in its death throes, an exploration that without his didactic exposition would have flew over my head.
I had to read it two time to understand what it was about. I had read the Hornblower books before and I was expecting some simple war novel, this time in the WWI that is not so popular topic in war novels. But The General is much more than it and it makes it quite a sad and gloomy book, especially looking back to the beginning of the novel (the nice walk in the city, respected by the citizens.)
Entertaining fictional account o,f the British army in ww1Better known for his horn lower books books during the napoleonic wars, here he has written a study of the British command during ww1. Good reading.
I include this with Once An Eagle as the finest writing on the military mind I have encountered. It provides a powerful perspective on the military sciences that produced the war to end all wars, at least on the British side.
this read turned me into a CS Forester fan!
https://wordpress.com/post/insearchof...
Not really a likeable character but there were probably a lot of them out there at that time. Interesting insights into First World War.
They put it in balloons and things.""That's coal gas, sir.
Forester really puts us in Curzon's boots and we can see how easy it was for Curzon to believe that what he was doing was right.My only criticism of this book is that the ending was rather too abrupt for my liking.
As I was coming to the end, I thought "Jeez, we're running out of book." But the rest of it was very good, and I would definitely recommend it to WW1 history enthusiasts in particular.
