https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175325.I_Will_Fear_No_Evil
I have often wondered where was the point of no return, the line of demarcation when Robert A.
Heinlein left his brilliant work of the 1960s and began his slow descent into weirdness and dirty-old-manity.
I think that line exists in I Will Fear No Evil, published in 1970.
True, there was some creepiness prior to this (Stranger in a Strange Land) and there is also some fine writing after this (segments of Time Enough for Love – Job: A Comedy of Justice – and parts of The Cat Who Walks Through Walls) but Heinlein never came back to the glory days.Heinlein is one of the all time greats, one of my personal favorite writers, but I could not bring myself to finish this one.
Rich old man pays for a unique way to get a new body.
The result is I Will Fear No Evil, in which a 90-something-year-old man has his brain transplanted into the body of his hot secretary and promptly turns into the girliest girl who ever spent most of a novel running around tee-heeing that she's not wearing any panties.yeah seriously did we take a left turn at Piers Anthony here?And it's not like Heinlein didn't have the writing chops to make this interesting, or that he couldn't explore mind-bending ideas, including gender reification which when he wrote this in 1970 still was barely out of the realm of science fiction.(But Ursula Le Guin wrote The Left Hand of Darkness in 1969 so Heinlein you have no excuse!)So, I already told you the plot.
We were talking about how teens in Singapore these days have so much more access to positive representations of gay men and gay life than when we were young.
It’s not even only because at the time I was a teen, it was the decade of AIDS and mainstream representation of gay men was singularly stereotypical and derogatory.
So my teenage self, already an avid fan of fantasy and science fiction, discovered—surprise, surprise—positive representations of gay men in these novels.
I think rather that it was these books that helped to save me from a life of self-hatred.
(part 94)Not, who's just acquired a new Lenovo ThinkPad, has spent the last hour getting familiar with the speech recognition capabilities.
After a while, I realized why it seemed oddly familiar: there's a scene early on in this 1970 novel where the hero's sexy PA does exactly the same thing.
And - if you aren't sufficiently impressed already at Heinlein's skills as a prognosticator - the novel is set in 2015.
In fact, there's only one important detail he gets wrong.
Well, it's hard to score 100% on these things...
I may not have started outwardly displaying my inner pain by blading like a distraught high school dork destined to be the next trench-coat mafia moron, but anyone who liked this book probably should.Having read the lauded Heinlein classic Stranger in a Strange Land about a year ago, and not enjoying it, I really can’t comment on why the hell I’d think this largely ignored (and rightfully so) work might be some sort of improvement.
When you consider it, it's almost inevitable that women see men as irresponsible and sex-obsessed.That discussion reminded me of Heinlein's I Will Fear No Evil, a book I loved as a teenager but really haven't thought about in years.
He/they decide to live his/their life according to his idea of how a hot young 20-something chick ought to live it.Looking at other people's reviews here, Chris complains that the book contains way, way too much sex.
A man who somehow ended up in a super-hot woman's body probably would spend most of his time having sex with everyone!
His sexism is probably the most difficult, so reading a book where the main character, Johann Sebastian Bach Smith has his brain transplanted into the gorgeous and perfect Eunice Branca -- effectively becoming a woman -- is bound to be off-putting.
The Good (or maybe just The Interesting)--A Reminder:: Our western view of sex and sexuality has shifted so much in the decades since I Will Fear No Evil was written that I think many of us who lived through those times forget what the attitudes were, and those who didn't live through those times find it difficult to understand just how different the attitudes were from what they now are.
Every man and woman who comes in contact with Joanne Eunice is instantly at ease with the gender and sexuality of the situation.
I really, really shouldn't.Okay, first off, let's get this out of the way: This book was written in 1970, and it reads as horribly dated to a modern reader, especially with the gender and sexual politics.
Again, a lot of the gender and sexual politics can be troublesome, but in context, coming from a man of Heinlein's time, they're shockingly progressive.A contemporary treatment of this idea would work out quite differently -- and I'd love to read it -- but as it stands, this book fascinates me and I love re-reading it.
I'm not sure how I feel about this book.
How can one book be so progressive about sexual identity and so sexist at the same time?!?
Published in 1970, it accepts the idea of multiple labels for sexual desire, beyond hetero/homo.
And yet, it is probably one of the most sexist books towards women I have ever read.
To Mr. Heinlein sexual freedom for women means sex is all they think about.
Just writing about it makes my blood pressure rise.But this same books identifies six different sexual orientations, mind you this was published in 1970.
But, I'm not sure if I would recommend it to anyone.
I read this back in my younger sci fi days and it was so bad I never read another Heinlein book. An old bloke becomes a young girl of very good looks and the point is laboured for about a 1000 pages. Well that was what it felt like anyway. Great cover though, that smoking skull. Good name for a book too. Hey what the heck, after having a look around Goodreads it all remind's me of some of the complete trash I once read. I Will Fear No Crap Book I Once Read.
Heinlein is usually amazing at creating characters but in this case he didn’t leave them with much other than a few good quotes:“No, 'Miss' Smith-do you know the technical term we physicians use to describe girls who depend on rhythm?" "No. What?" "We call them 'mothers.'"He pointed at the Moon.
It may be that an intelligent race has to expand right up to its disaster point to achieve what is needed to break out of its planet and reach for the stars.
It may take endless wars and unbearable population pressure to force-feed a technology to the point where it can cope with space.
The need for war, the inevitability of messiahs, revolution, life, death, immortality - he's not afraid to shy away from some of the greatest philosophical topics that reside in the human heart, and this book is no exception.Johann Sebastian Bach Smith is a very old, very sick, very rich man.
and it is the only thing I know of which will do a woman any good when a man can't do for her what she needs." Joan accepts the spanking meekly, not only thanking Jake for his spanking, but also claiming that she had her first orgasm while he did it.Wow. That's nearly as bad as the other major female character, Winnie, who talks about a gang rape experience with what can almost be imagined as fondness.Oddly enough, this is not my biggest problem with the book.
At the time though I was thrilled to find a writer addressing topics that were very much on my teenage brain and I offered little in the way of criticism as I tore through his oeuvre.I still remember the first time I stumbled across I Will Fear No Evil, a later work of Heinlein’s in which a rich industrialist tries to escape death by having his brain transplanted into a younger body.
In his new body he revels in his regained youth while at the same time coming to grips with being alternately gendered.There is a ton that is problematic about this read, but I think it’s what Orwell called a good bad book.
As an exceedingly brief summary, this is the story of a brain transplant and the dual-sexed multiple personality that results from it.I read this book the first time when I was about 15 or 16, I think, and it really hasn't stood up to my growth as an adult.
Now, in normal circumstances, I think this is a great idea---pleasures of the flesh are quite pleasing, after all---but there's so much sexist baggage piled on top here that it often left an icky taste in my mouth.Not one of Heinlein's best.
FYI: The title is taken from Psalm 23:4.
Although the work probably deserves only a 3 or 4, I gave this 5 stars for sentimental reasons.I Will Fear No Evil was one of the first Robert A.
Heinlein novels that I read as a young adult.
I was forever "hooked." Continuing to read Heinlein's works, I soon realized it wasn't his best - possibly because he was quite ill while writing this book.
What tantalized me most about the plot was the co-existence of the two personalities, of opposite sex, in the same body.
Their communication with one another and shared responses piqued my imagination.
If we could just transplant the brain of a horny old billionaire into the body of his hot young PA, we'd find out more in a month than we have in fifty years of academic gender studies. But for some reason it's impossible to get the experiment funded. Well Bob, at least no one can say it's your fault.
This may be my favorite of all the Heinlein books and that includes Stranger (I'm cringing even as I type that heresy).
Johann Sebastian Bach Smith is rich enough to afford a full brain transplant into a young healthy body, unfortunately for him the donor is a young woman whose consciousness/soul hasn't left her traumatized body.
My first introduction to Heinlein was Stranger in a Strange Land.
Once I had read it, I devoured his works as they were published and republished during the 80's.
I Will Fear No Evil is one I've read several times just for entertainment.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2396991...I simply couldn't finish the book. It is too dreadfully bad. Just before the half-way point, I realised that I couldn't take any more.
I'm not engaged with this persons journey through sex change and I'm not quite understanding the meaning behind most of his setups.
I personally just get tired of reading about how everyone should be having sex with everyone.
I have never truly empathized with any character he's written in all the books of his I've read.Maybe someone can enlighten me on Heinlein.
I really want to understand and related with him as so many have.Now, I have never read Tunnel in the Sky or The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress and those two have been specifically recommended to me, so perhaps I will change my mind on some of this then.
Very bizarre.
Very bizarre.
One other reviewer said this is where he thought Heinlein started going off the tracks--well, if it isn't, it's dang close.
Of course the character is curious about sex from the female perspective and is eager to try it; I think most people would be in these circumstances.
But from then on, every 3rd thought is about sex, whether for pleasure or using it to "bribe" others.
While Heinlein certainly did self-reference himself, I'm not sure if this the case Dates might not be right and this is not the time line of Lazarus Long.
a 95+ year old billionaire gets his brain transplanted into his young secretary's body and uses his newfound gender to have sex with everyone he encounters, including medical staff, bodyguards, his lawyer, etc.
like 85%+ of the book consists of dialog, most of which is really corny.
heinlein's female characters are always one dimensional (guess which dimension that is) and the book goes on for way, way too long.
with the twist at the end foreshadowed at the beginning of the book, this would have been better as a mediocre twilight zone episode.
the more i read into heinlein's bibliography, the more i'm discovering that a lot of it flat out sucks
DNF
I decided that I was SO annoyed at Heinlein that it would be best to put him aside for a time and come back when I'd calmed down a bit.It took me a while.But, finally, I was feeling up to giving him another shot, and I thought that this one, where a very old male billionaire has his brain transplanted into the body of a beautiful woman, would be an interesting place to start.My criticism of the Fifty Shades of Grey novels was that they were a lot of interesting sex scenes strung together by a very weak and boring plot.
I suspect a much heavier editing hand could have helped immensely.This is one of those books I probably would have rated higher when I was in high school.
Probably 95% of the book is dialog, and a lot of it is an internal dialog of characters sharing a body.
I really like how this felt like a radio story, at least for the first couple hours.
I will be on the lookout for other stories with this high a percentage of dialog on audio -- I think I will like it, if the story can carry through.
This book is written by one of my favorite authors!
I'm not sure about colonizing the moon if that is a good or bad thing.
It's obvious this book was written by a male, and some of his insights about women are spot on....others...well, you'll have to find for yourself.
He started out writing for young boys, but has become very well known for his adult themes and books.If you like this, my two other favorites are better.
The young adult, although written much earlier (he started in 1930's) are very good and some have become movies.....are also very good.
Feb. 21, 2015: As promised, I have had some more thoughts about this book.In general, people seem to choose one of two ways to handle Robert Heinlein’s I Will Fear No Evil: detest it in all its casually (and sometimes not so casually) misogynistic odiousness, or love it like an uncouth grandfather who “grew up in a different time.” As is often a case, I don’t think either extreme is quite right.Full review at CurtisWeyant.com.----Feb. 14, 2015: This story will take awhile to process.
I'm not sure Heinlein needed as many pages as he took to get the result he did.That said, I did like the ending.
Second, the science fiction elements are nearly buried in more sex even than a late-period Anita Blake novel.
:) Third thing, and one people sometimes miss in Heinlein novels: he's a Cancer.
By which I mean he is loving and kind to all living things, especially people, and loves to write about caring, considerate men and women who cherish each other both in Eros and Agape.
With all of this, I would say this is one of my favorite Heinlein novels, and considering he is my second favorite author of all time, that is saying quite a lot!
It brought up some interesting ideas but it also dragged and in many places I wondered if it was going anywhere only to have important events happen in the span of 1-2 pages.
Yes.") The other big 70's moment, the one that really threw me, was when a character, knowing she was pregnant, ordered a bottle of wine to celebrate and started talking about drinking the whole thing by herself, it was pointed out to me that the effects of alcohol in pregnancies were not studied and made known until the 80's.
Overall the characters and some of the ideas were interesting but the book just dragged.
He makes arrangements to have his brain transplanted into a new body upon his death.
If you've read any Heinlein at all, you can probably imagine that this situation would lead itself to a certain amount of sexual hijinks.
It's a situation that's almost as kinky as it is cheesy and implausible.Not only could I not bear to finish this book, since the binding on my copy was worse for wear anyway, I went ahead and used some of its pages to make a collage for a high school class.
That makes this one of the few books I've despised enough to destroy.
One of the silliest books ever written by a major science fiction author.
A very old Donald Trump type has his brain transplanted into the gorgeous young body of his recently murdered secretary; she remains 'present,' however, and the rest of the book is spent in ENDLESS dialogues between the two of them (talk about arguing with yourself!) while we wait to see if the female-body-controlled-by-a-male-brain will A) have sex with a woman, and/or B) have sex with a man.
For those who know Heinlein lore, this was the book that was never edited (revised) due to the fact that Heinlein had to have surgery and his publisher had a deadline.It should have been 'edited' with a can of gasoline and a match.
