https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327.Why_Zebras_Don_t_Get_Ulcers
But it addresses a lot of important issues, like the economics of stress and the way poverty and pay inequality have life-long health ramifications.
It also looks at the role stress plays in mental illness, pain, infertility, and addiction.The science can be quite dense at times, but Sapolsky is good at walking you through it and recalling topics he introduced earlier so you never have to feel like you're studying for something.
Good science writing that challenges assumptions and doesn't take itself too seriously.
If you read this, get the third edition; it's revised and updated.
Review it later.
I encountered a link to a speech by Sapolsky on Pharyngula, I think, and was immediately engaged by his speaking style.
I'll definitely be working my way through the rest of his catalog.The book is fascinating, too, although as he notes many times, thinking about and addressing stress is difficult, because trying to act to reduce stress can itself be stressful.
As he elucidates what's currently known about the links between stress and disease, a lot of interesting things emerge, some of which are essentially throwaway trivia, like the idea that anti-depressant medication takes a while to work on people that are clinically depressed because of the physiological nature of depression; he doesn't really spell it out, but the obvious corollary is that is someone takes AD medication and instantly feels better, they're probably not actually depressed.
The central story of the book is how the fight or flight response – the most powerful force that has shaped vertebrate evolution for hundreds of millions of years - is now being turned against modern humans through chronic stress and anxiety.
The book concludes with some stories about coping with stress, and the unique psychological profiles of the people who avoid the development of stress-related diseases and experience health improvements with aging in a process he calls “successful aging.”
If you're looking for a solid book on recommendations to deal with stress, this might not be it.To the author's credit, he is trying to be as accurate as possible, and therefore I believe he is trying his best to recommend the most scientifically accurate practice to deal with stress; and sadly, there may not be many, although there is a few practical one such as exercise and meditation.
Gostei muito do primeiro livro do Robert Sapolsky, o Memórias de um Primata. E este não me desapontou. Muito bem embasado, com bastante pesquisa (e prática) sobre o que é o estresse, como funciona e como nós lidamos bem ou mal com isso. Com aquela discussão necessária de natureza vs. criação, bons exemplos e um bom humor que te mantém ligado ao texto. Do tipo de livro que recomendo para leigos também.
Sapolsky, who I am a big fan of, explains why certain types of stresses like long work days end up having more serious negative effects on your physiology than do other types of stress such as a lion chasing after you.
My one beef with this book is that it doesn't give you much in the way of how to handle stress.
I felt somewhat more stressed after reading reading this book because I finally had a good understanding of all of its negative effects but still didn't know what to do about it....
Dr. Sapolsky is everything you could want from an author on a serious topic like stress: a world-class leader in the field of research, a clear and perceptive writer, and equal parts hilarious and profound. Learning about the physiology and psychology of stress would be interesting either way, but learning about it through his book is at least doubly so. Highly recommended.
Should be compulsory reading for every high school biology student. A thorough dismantling of the reductionist cell biology mindset of the 20th century, Sapolsky shows you how very complex and intricate the interaction is between organism and environment, and how 'genes' may be overrated in a lot of ways.
this book is hi-la-ri-ous.not only does sapolsky brilliantly explain the science in an easily digestible way, he does it with flair and humor. had to read this for a class about stress and coping, and i found myself looking forward to each assignment.
A brilliant and incredibly well-written book.Every time I read something by Sapolsky I get amazed with how prodigious he is.
No matter what he's talking about, everything he says is interesting and engaging.
I don't find the stress subject very interesting, just because I often suffer from it, therefore I prefer to act like it doesn't exist, but unexpectedly, this helped me realize that I've been doing the entirely wrong thing (want to know why?
Just in the last chapter, Sapolsky will specifically talk about what could you do about it, though repetively saying that it's an entirely subjective thing.
Although it is written for a lay audience, I often got the feeling it was written for a lay audience of primarily MDs.By the end of the book, you will feel like you and epinephrine, norepinephrine, and glucocorticoids are all old friends--but in spite of the terminology, it is really an easy read and full of good humor and interesting anecdotes (e.g. hyenas are very peculiar).Here is a quote, taken out of context, that I enjoyed:"Every child cannot grow up to be president; it turned out that merely by holding hands and singing folk songs we couldn't end all war, and hunger does not disappear just by visualizing a world without it....Would that it were so.
And shame on those who would sell this view."You may not like all of his opinions.
First off, Sapolsky is a delightful writer. For a rather depressing book on all the scientifically understood harmful effects of stress, this book is often laugh out loud funny. But beyond that, Sapolsky is brilliant. He makes complex topics seem simple, but doesn't simplify to the point of losing the complexity. Quite a feat. If you are ever curious about examining what stress really is, and what effect it has on your body, this book is a must-read (especially useful I think for yoga teachers).
This is a difficult one to rate because it was complicated AF and overwhelming at times, but I'll go with 4 stars because it was ultimately helpful and definitely educational, with just enough humor to keep my brain from exploding and oozing out of my ears. I do wish he had included more data on the benefits of exercise as stress management.
The author spends 22 chapters beating us to death with hundreds of studies about how and why stress is bad for us. He focuses strongly on the chemistry and physiology of stress in animals and humans. He then spends 1 chapter on things we can do about it. Basically: don't be born poor, don't have a bad marriage, exercise and be religious. There. Now you don't have to read the book.
This manifestation of stress is going to my 'books to give friends as a gift' list. The topic is morbid but written in a way that makes it a must read for anyone interested in managing their own well being and avoiding brain shrinkage.
Ar yra geresnė knyga apie stresą ir jo poveikį mums? Galbūt, bet kol kas su tokia nesusidūriau, tad laurai atitenka Roberto Sapolskio knygai su itin šmaikščiu pavadinimu, kurio prasmė jau greit atsiskleidžia knygoje. Knyga parašyta labiau moksliniu stiliumi, tačiau jis labai gyvybingas, šmaikštus ir aiškiai suprantamas. Ilgametė Sapolskio patirtis dirbant su gyvūnais ir tyrinėjant stresą atsiskleidžia šioje knygoje. Knygą labai rekomenduoju, ji taip pat turi ne tik teorinių, bet ir praktinių įžvalgų.
To summarize: Adrenaline is a DEATH drug.
It's designed to keep you alive for the next 15 seconds, or to ease your death.
If you can survive to the 16th second only by losing a limb, it's worthwhile to sacrifice the limb.
Otherwise, it's wasteful and disabling.Zebras don't get ulcers because they (mostly) only release stress hormones 'in the event of an actual emergency'.
Humans deliberately evoke stress on an everyday basis, and the reckless decisions the body makes under the influence of stress hormones, too often, results in the loss of limbs, supression of the immune system, etc.Recommendation: don't pull the fire alarm unless there's a real fire.
I've been wanting to read this ever since I saw a documentary on stress that included Sapolsky's research.In the meantime, I've also become fairly interested in the human microbiome.
So, this kinda played right into all of that...
so as far as books, this was pretty much my introduction to the field of stress research, as well as how human digestion works and where hormones and neurotransmitters come from and what they can do, etc...
that said, I did this one as an audiobook, which might not have been entirely appropriate to the level of detail contained.
Maybe I should come back to it someday.
الكتاب يتناول موضوع القلق وتاثيره على الجسم والانسان بشكل عام منذ قبل ولاده وحتى طفولته وحتى موته وهل يؤثر قلقه وقلق امه ومجتمعه ومن حوله عليه بطريقة مباشرة او غير مباشرةوفي الختام يعطي نصائح على كيفية التخلص من القلق والتقليل منه قرأة ممتعة للجميع
This book also reinforced for me a conclusion that joy and happiness and pleasure are probably more important than anything else for good health.When we merely think, we stimulate the hypothalamus and pituitary and adrenal glands (the "HPA axis") to release various extremely powerful physiological chemicals such as cortisol and adrenalin.
I have not read Seigel's book and I have not studied New Age thinking, but I thought much of Saporsky's book seems to support love, medicine and miracles, especially where he describes how important fetal touch is and how actual dwarfism can develop from lack of maternal love.
Fascinating info!
Not only is Sapolsky a renowned scholar, he's a wonderful story teller.
Even his explanations of complicated physiological cascades are easy to follow.
The book is about the stress response, in animals and in humans, and the basic take-home lesson is that stress is a double edged sword.
The book is worth it for Chapter 17 alone, in which Sapolsky examines the devastating effects of poverty, especially the perception of poverty in the midst of plenty, and its multi-generational biological effects.
De recitit. O carte esențială oricărui novice deoarece Robert Sapolsky are harul de a sintetiza informația la un nivel atât de simplist încât ar fi o insultă să nu încerci a-l citi. Urmează - "Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst".
Going forward, I'm not going to stress myself over anything. While, I'm aware of how cortisol wreaks havoc, this book provides sheer evidence why our lifestyles are leading to shorter life spans. More letting go, sleep and meditation for me. For the ones who are fascinated by jargons in the biology and neuroscience field, grab this book already!
The difference is the zebra goes back to regular life after, but humans seem to treat a myriad of situations as if the lion is back and the stress-response that the body goes through takes a toll on our bodies.Take the cardiovascular system.
Your digestive tract shuts down, breathing rate skyrockets, the heart beats faster and your blood pressure goes up.
For example, as part of the response, the blood pounds through your veins and returns with deafening force to the heart.
Now, if this happens very often, the walls of the heart will be forced to thicken to accommodate this regular flood and cause ventricular hypertrophy.
The upshot is that we all need to find our own unique ways of coping with stress based on our personality types and numerous other factors in order to live long and healthy lives (the only seeming universal being that exercise not in excess seems to benefit everyone).
Prior to the concluding chapters on these personal habits, Saplosky also notes the inequality in wealth as a tremendous factor in disease related to stress, asserting that humans have created their own stresses through religion and agriculture (a view I've also held all along), and ultimately advocating for social justice based on eradicating these inequalities.
Sapolsky is an amazing writer and Primate's Memoir ranks as one of my favorite books.
That said, the title, cover, and prior experience with Primate's Memoir led me to have unrealistic expectations of this book.
It is thorough and well-written, but approaches the topic of stress from a phsyiological perspective that doesn't spare any of the details.
As such, it often calmed my stress by putting me to sleep.
The subtitle's promise of a section on "coping" with stress didn't pan out, and amounted to a few pages of an attempt at the end of the book.
A good introduction to the effects of stress on human physiology, as good, and comprehensive as a lay-person can wish for. It elaborates greatly on the negative effects of artificially, and repeatedly triggering stress responses that were evolved to get us out of mortal danger, at the same time giving clear headed explanations as to why these responses might be useful in the first place, and why they are beneficial when controlled, and used sparingly.All in all, for someone who had little knowledge about anything stress related, this has given me plenty of starting point to do further research.
This book is simply exquisite. Sapolsky is a fantastic scientist as well as a wonderful writer. In this book, he will help you understand the evolutionary purpose of the stress response and elucidate why we differ so much from other animals. We humans have a useful stress response but use it in very unuseful ways. If you read this book, you will be treated to the wonderful and unexpected story of J.M. Barrie, author of Peter Pan. What does his life have to do with the neuroscience of stress? Read and find out! You will not be disappointed.
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Mr. Sapolsky attacks a very scientific subject with wit and charm. If you're a biologist or anthropologist or like me, just a reader who's interested in finding out more about our bodies and about my disease, multiple sclerosis, you will greatly enjoy this book. I took it in chunks and that was probably the best thing to do but I do recommend it for anyone who's curious about how chronic stress affects the human body.
