https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457314.The_Mystery_of_a_Butcher_s_Shop
"You are wearing grey flannel trousers!""Yes," agreed Jim, glancing down at them."If I had my way," said Mrs Bradley firmly, "grey flannel trousers should be taxed, together with dogs, automobiles, wireless receiving-sets, income, and the colour curiously termed beige."I like Mitchell's character studies and her humour but her plotting and convoluted storytelling left me, yet again, puzzled beyond what I can put up with.
I was lost by the half-way mark, and the red herrings and inconsequential discussions in the second half did nothing to salvage the mystery for me.
Not even the humour and obvious Christie-mockery could make up for it.Shame.
She goes for the old-world country setting with characters who knew each other for years, or thought they did, until a murder occurs.
Another character I disliked is Felicity Broom, the twenty one year old 'child', who puts up with being treated like a kid.
The final chapters picked up a little because the author toned down the stupid character idiosyncrasies but messed it all up again in the end by Bradley's terrible behaviour.
I disliked almost everything about this book, but the setting was good as usual - the only reason I was able to finish.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:An Offal DiscoveryWhen Rupert Sethleigh vanishes, Gladys Mitchell's amateur sleuth Mrs Bradley probes alarming village events. Stars Mary Wimbush.The Bones of the MatterWith Rupert Sethleigh still missing, can amateur sleuth Mrs Bradley solve the mystery of a headless corpse? Stars Mary Wimbush.
Gladys Mitchell was an astonishingly prolific British mystery writer.
There is also something somewhat offbeat and peculiar about Mitchell's mysteries.Take for example her sleuth Mrs. Beatrice Lestrange Bradley.
The Mystery of a Butcher's Shop opens with the unexplained absence of Rupert Sethleigh, the local squire of the village of Wandles Parva.
A few days later, in a neighboring village, a horrifying discovery is made in a local butcher shop.
Gladys Mitchell's mysteries may be a bit of an acquired taste, but it is easy to understand why she has a cult following of devoted readers.
I can't wait to read my next Gladys Mitchell mystery.
Bettie's Books
I usually like the Mrs Bradleys but this was bog awful. The plot and characters are sketched in in a way so impressionistic as to make you feel like you're reading a poorly constructed synopsis, the resolution depends on profoundly unconvincing psychoanalysis, and the whole thing is just flimsy tosh. Very poor stuff.
I'm hoping that all of books penned by the woman once known as "the great Gladys" come back into print and are picked up by Audible.com.Unlike the innocent-appearing Miss Marple or the erudite Roderick Alleyn, Mrs. Bradley is frequently described in saurian terms.
That proves difficult as Sir Rupert's skull keeps turning up in all the wrong places.
I read the Audible.com version of the novel, and the reader, with her elderly voice, does full credit to the book.To read one Gladys Mitchell book is to become hooked.
After my last less than successful Mrs Bradley read, I wasn't expecting to enjoy this.
There were only a couple of minor irritations, mostly caused by Mrs Bradley's need to score points off the police in a completely unnecessary way, and also by her resolution of the murder, which relied heavily on monomania.
There is a wood beside the murdered man's house.
Searching the wood should have been the first thing the police did!
I think the book was saved for me because I enjoyed the characters of Felicity, Aubrey, the kleptomaniac vicar and Margery.
I was reminded of Dorothy Sayers' intricate, even convoluted plotting and PG Wodehouse's eye for human folly. A quietly sardonic novel with a memorable, startlingly amoral sleuth. Do not expect a typical cozy mystery as much as a fond send-up of the genre, couched in an elegantly devious mystery.
An excellent read. For me, how a crime book should be written. Very little gore or intimate personal relationship. They get on with telling you the story. Tempted to give it 5*
Second in this Mrs. Bradley series and the victim is the disliked owner if Manor House. There is no shortage of suspects and scandal and Mrs. Bradley is able to sort it out in due time.
Like her peers (Christie, Sayers & Allingham) Mitchell sets her stories in what is now a cliched British milieu of quaint villages, befuddled vicars, nosey elderly spinsters & kind hearted but oblivious country policemen.
Mitchell adds a twist of shocking strangeness that was not common in the early 1930s.
It adds some excitement and freshness to what can be a tired format.I've been reading up on Mitchell since I discovered her books and I think this quote from Disclaimer magazine explains her best.
"Reading Gladys Mitchell is like reading Margery Allingham paying homage to Agatha Christie on acid."
My edition has the Independent quoted as calling the book 'Superbly odd' on its front cover.
but it is an enjoyable read if you suspend belief and are ready for some of the 'jolly hockey sticks' dialogue (well it was written in 1930).I'd add a warning for those who come to the book having loved the wonderful Mrs Bradley character created by Diana Rigg (and the screenwriters) for TV ...
while some of the characteristics of the book's character are used to inform the TV version, the physical appearance of Mrs Bradley, as described in the book, certainly isn't.
I'm torn about this book. It was published in 1930, and I really enjoyed most of the characters and the village setting. Unfortunately, I found Mrs. Bradley, the seemingly omniscient amateur detective, a but unpleasant. This novel read like a modern parody of a Golden Age mystery, with way too many extraneous plot devices and red herrings. Overall, I'm glad I read it, but I didn't love it.
This is extraordinary.
classic crime
Decent book, but a rather confusing solution.
With all its red herrings, misplaced clues, scattered body parts (including a missing skull!), characters wearing costume while some appear in others' clothing, and the general mayhem, this lively mystery was perfect for the Halloween season.
This 1930 novel was Gladys Mitchell's second Mrs. Bradley mystery (of 66!).
She writes with such humor: upon meeting Dame Beatrice Adela Lestrange Bradley, one character reflects, "[he had] never seen such a wicked old woman.
In the meantime, I trust that Golden Age Detective aficionados already count her among their favorite authors and the singular Mrs. Bradley one of their fondest characters!
I was prompted to read Gladys Mitchell's Mrs. Bradley mysteries after I saw the one episode available on Netflix, an adapation of the first novel, "A Speedy Death." Honestly, I wasn't particularly impressed by it, but various reviews online convinced me to try reading at least one of the series, so there I was.This is not your typical 1920s mystery novel; it's far more serious in content (if not tone) than any Christie or Hammett volume.
(hide spoiler)] The language, too, is at times shocking (at one point, Mrs. Bradley refers to a pair of dogs as 'abortions,' at which I definitely did a double take.)Otherwise, the plot has lots of unresolved loose ends and weird moments where I wasn't sure whether the author was deliberately trying to make me dislike the protagonist, Mrs. Bradley.
Very funny novel, but I think it would have worked better without a mystery since that was the weakest part by far (the resolution and the end in general is extremely abrupt and a sad disappointment).
The writing is excellent - the author reproduces speech patterns and idiosyncracies which is a tad disconcerting at first and may be tiring after a while but it adds so much humour.
The eccentric characters wouldn't be out of place in a P.G. Wodehouse book and the main character's really endearing.
I got the impression this was the first in the series, so I read it first, but it is the second.
Nevertheless, you don't need to have read Speedy Death first.
I thought these might be the books upon which the Diana Rigg series of mystery shows (Mrs. Bradley) were based, but no.
Fun, funny, if you get dry, British humor.
Interesting enough to continue with the series.
(I'm going to go back and read Speedy Death.)Written in the early 20th Century, these do not read like much of the wordy prose of that era of British writing, more like Georgette Heyer's mysteries.
Mitchell has a vivid and playful imagination that makes her unlike any other mystery writer. Despite never knowing what will happen next or being able to settle into comfort, the reader is still given a richly described stable of characters. Plus her prose style is masterful, quirky, clever and inventive. This mystery has layers of detail going on and the end provides multiple solutions before the resolution, almost like a slow strip tease. This was her first and she may have some issues with pacing but other than that this is still a wonder.
I had a harder time with this one that I did with the first book. I just couldn't get into it. Add to that the confusion of characters at the start and the way it felt as if things zoomed along but then suddenly dragged...well, it took me longer to get through than I expected. There are a few great bits and Mrs. Bradley is as terrifyingly awesome as in the first book, so I will read the next one. But I think I'll wait a bit and read something else first.
The upside - not as bad as Come Away Death. Also, highly annoying though Beatrice Lestrange Bradley is, she does have a good solid diatribe about the politics of the C of E catechism as the reason why she only goes to churches to admire the architecture. Downsides - oh dear, the comedy Irish maid at the vicarage? - ugh; the usual assemblage of OTT characters; yet again, the victim is such a wart that the murderer was doing a social service...
Good fun! A mystery in the regular spirit. A despicable victim, a plethora of suspects, an unappreciative police force. And just when I was feeling slightly deflated by the solution (with these books, shockingly, the obvious suspect often is the murderer) the story took a slight but worthy twist.Too, we're spared Laura in this one, her normal duties being ably filled by a couple of young people from the district. A pleasant change.
My first Gladys Mitchell, though not my last. The plot chopped and changed so much it became a little too convoluted at times. The style has a decided echo of Wodehouse, witty and facile. Slightly odd in that the blackmail issue is largely glossed over, as is the motivation for dismembering the corpse ~ given that the highly entertaining sleuth is a psychoanalyst, I'd have expected more reflection on this part of the plot. Still, all in all quite amusing.
I read the Kindle edition of this and it didn't hold my interest. I don't know if it was the editing or what. It got good reviews on Amazon.I had trouble keeping the characters straight andfound myself going back several times to figure out who someone was. I was surprised since I generally enjoy her mysteries. The Rising of the Moon is my favorite.
A good murder mystery from the golden age of detective fiction, and a wonderfully amoral and pragmatic reaction from the detective, Mrs Bradley, once she has her murderer. I have to admit, though, that some of the characters behave with more than a fair amount of stupidity that, in spite of their innocence, would probably have got them in hot water in real life. But a good read.
A clever whodunnit, one of the Golden Age, but pretty gruesome at that. The discovery of a body, cut into parts and hung like so much meat in a butcher's shop is the catalyst for Mrs Bradley's investigation. There are red herrings aplenty: engaging and eccentric characters, with the divinely batty Mrs Bradley at their centre. It's well-written, with a neat (literally) last page twist.
Different style of crime book from what I'm used to - guessing it's a product of its age.I understood that the murdered guy wasn't very pleasant but no one seemed to care that he'd been brutally murdered!Quite a big cast of characters so sometimes it was hard to keep everyone straight.Interested to see what will happen in the future books.
