https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769952.Mrs_Piggle_Wiggle_s_Farm
We'd not had the inclination before to dismantle it, but when our mattress began causing my back too much pain, we decided to buy a real bed and take the platform down on Memorial Day weekend.
So we did.Part of the platform was a wooden shelf right behind the bed, where we'd put books and a table lamp and papers and things.
Of course, there's Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, but she seems as if she never completely grew up herself.
That's the appeal of the stories.Not the best of the series, but entertaining, and much better than the effort from 2007, which is best ignored.Oh, and we love the new bed, too.
A casual observer might think that I liked the first three Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books equally.
Only the fact that my son was still as enthusiastic as ever about the series during the course of the book has saved it from the ignominy of a two.As a few other reviewers have noted, this book, while as long as the others, only has five chapters whereas the others have eight, suggesting that Betty MacDonald was running out of ideas and stretching those that she had thin, and adding lots of padding.
So did I.Also, in this book, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle has moved out into the country and is living on a farm.
Although there is a certain charm to Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's barn yard menagerie, this made the book even more repetitive than its predecessors.
Betty MacDonald. That's all I have to say.
I have heard of Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle , but we'd never read any of the books in this series before.
As I started to post my review here, I see that it's the third book in the series, but we had no difficulties understanding the context of the story and we enjoyed listening to the different stories about the hard-to-manage children.
Overall, it's a fun collection of short stories/chapters and we enjoyed listening to Karen White narrate the book during our long drive.
I suppose, though, that I should read the first book in the series so I can more fully appreciate Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's eccentricity.
I sat down and read all four Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books in one fell 2 day or so swoop.
All the children in Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle grew up to be hippies, went to Vietnam, danced disco, got rich in the 1980s, went through tech bubbles and real estate booms, and now are retiring en mass.
2. Hilary Knight and Maurice Sendak are equally good illustrators, and their envisioning of Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle herself are totally different, but both versions smell like gingerbread and are very huggable.
3. There were no children of color in any of the Piggle-Wiggle books, which bothered me now, and did not bother me when I was 8.
I really enjoyed this more than Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle’s magic. The cures were creative and I loved the farm life in it. We get to know Mrs Piggle-Wiggle more in this book which I also love. I’m excited for Hello, Mrs. Piggle Wiggle! I would recommend to people who are looking for books to read aloud.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as the original "Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle," although my six-year-old seemed to like it well enough.
What started off as a clever gimmick in the first book kind of gets old in the subsequent books.
In this one, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, the woman who knows everything about children and can cure all their bad habits (ie.
forgetting to feed pets, taking stuff apart but not fixing it, etc.), moves from town to a farm, and the children she cures go to stay with her on her farm.
Her cures all revolve around taking care of farm animals and the like.
These are not a joy for parents to read.I cringe the entire time because each child's issue to correct seems taken directly from my parenting life or from that of one of my friends.
It's the same reason I hate watching those nanny shows on TV.
I get no pleasure from watching other people mess up their children and why would I want to watch someone else's children behaving badly?Anyway, my children think the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books are delightful.
Read to the kids over weekend breakfasts. I enjoyed it (and they did too) but I felt like it lacked the specific charm of the earlier books. It was nice to be on a farm but it seems strange that she's all by herself with children only coming over occasionally for their "cures". The stories in this book were fewer and longer and almost seemed accidental for the most part: where Mrs Piggle-Wiggle would have a child over to the farm and they would self-correct their problem. It just wasn't quite the same.
Of all the books I read as a child, this series stands out as the best!
The third installment of the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle series is another charming, old-fashioned kid's book about misbehaving children and the enigmatic, wonderful woman who cures them.I don't remember reading this volume when I was a kid, although I thought I'd read them all.
Now, reading this as an adult, it definitely lacks the charm of the earlier volumes.
Still, with the usual caveats that there are references to corporal punishment in the book, I think this can be a fun read for middle-grade students.
These books have a surprising amount of snark in them for the adult reader.
The mothers are shown as busybodies with nothing to do beyond child-rearing (which, being in a Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle story, they are not succeeding at), except to make "snacks" for their luncheons at various "societies".
That the snacks seem to include vile combinations of just about everything except the kitchen sink, and the societies seem to exist merely to host these luncheons.
I loved that story as a child, and I am surprised to find I still do - adult snark included.
She’s soon about to have a few visitors, as more mothers are having difficult times curing their children of their bad habits.My Thoughts: For a minute I shy’ ed away from reading this one because I thought there might be an illustration of a certain animal in it that I don’t like to look at.
This one wasn’t as fun as the others because the cures were just teaching the kid’s about responsibility from working with the animals.
I just didn’t see how just simply working on a farm would help a kid’s inability to tell the truth.
Delightful, as always. Mrs. Piggle Wiggle lives on a farm in this one, which provides another context for cures, this time based on either lucky farm-related circumstances or some arguable unethical planning by Mrs. P-G. The wonderful names were back in this one and I especially enjoyed the mothers’ clubs and ridiculous recipes (although it’s a little hard to tell if those were actual dishes of the time!). Plenty of opportunity for talking about generational differences in gender roles and physical punishment too.
This book got back to more realistic cures, but the farm is out of the neighborhood so it is more like a summer camp for one child at a time.
I think I liked these books far more as a child and while they would probably be fun to read as a parent aloud to children who keep picking garbage books, as the better ones of the series almost seem to be more for parents to know they are not alone, as a book read alone as an adult they fell short of my recollections.
It seems like Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle doesn't actually do anything in this one; the kids are just cured because they get out of their house and spend time on her farm. No magic is involved (like in the last one). There aren't as many stories as in the first two books, and since there are no clever or magical cures it's a duller read.In one of the stories, the dad literally says he's going to beat his son with a razor strap. Mom vetoes that. Dads are generally pretty useless in the MPW books.
I picked this book because it is great for ages 6 to 10 years old. I loved this book because it is yet another great Mrs. Piggle-Wiggles book, and teaches life lessons. I could use this book in my classroom for yet another series in the classroom libary. I love being able to draw kids in, and this is a great book to do so.
How is this classic not on my "read" list? I loved seeing how Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle straightened out troublesome children is such clever ways! I remember thinking that I was such a well-behaved child that she would never have to teach me a lesson! Anyway, this was my favorite of the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books.
Betty McDonald strikes again with another fantastic novel about Mrs. Piggle Wiggle and her amazing cures! I love this book so much. The cures in this book are comedic and very true! With and dash of fantasy and magic and a pinch of the real world, Betty McDonald creates a masterpiece called Mrs Piggle Wiggle's Farm, the third amazing book in an amazing series!
I loved these books as a kid but was disappointed rereading them now by the gender stereotypes. They of course make sense when considering it was written in the 1950’s, but I don’t know how appropriate this book is anymore without directly addressing the incorrectness of such stereotypes with children who read them.
The kids have problems and Mrs. Pigglewiggle cures them. Visiting her place sounds fun because there are a lot of animals. I love them. I think I would like the food she makes. I would probably like her dog wag the best because I love dogs.
I liked this one better than the first because we got to see Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle more! Evie loved the stories and I didn’t find the children’s habits in this one to be quite as annoying 😜
I love this series as much as an adult as I did as a kid...maybe more now that I have kids!
Audiobook. This is my second favorite in this series. It was fun to hear the creative ways Mrs Piggle Wiggle cured the kids while the helped on her farm.
Clara and I loved these stories. It was fun to read a story that mentioned "Georgie" and "Betty" too.
Kids love listening to this book!
Another enjoyable bedtime read-aloud with the kids!
I have listened to this audio book about 5 times now and I think Betty MacDonald is trolling me from the grave.
Listened to the audio in the car and loved this as much as the first one!..krb 6/19/17
These are some pretty terrible cures. I like the parrot, though. The parrot knows what's up
