https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2218954.Masada
This is a popular, illustrated summation of the findings made by archaeological teams led by Yadin at the Masada fortress of Herod the Great, the last refuge of Jews in rebellion during the First Roman War. The text describes not only the excavations and the interpretation of data but also, with substantial reference to Josephus, attempts to reconstruct the events of 73 C.E.
The year 73 marked the end of the Zealot Rebellion in Israel against Rome.
General Silva's troops finally breached the wall of the seemingly impenetrable, wilderness fortress of Masada only to find 966 men, women and children laying dead.Yigael Yadin was the archeologist chosen by Israel to excavate this honored ground.
Based on his findings Yadin presents a vivid picture of both the grandeur of Herod the Great's former palace- villa and also the struggles and final moments of the Jewish revolt.Well written with a great combination of archeology, history, pictures and lots of quotes from my favorite dead Jewish historian, Flavius Josephus.
00 - thorough review and pictography of the archeological excavation of Masada 1963-65. Quite interesting as it reveals the life lived then, Herod's feats of engineering, the accuracy of Flavius Josephus' "Jewish Antiquities" and "The Jewish War" in describing the place, the seige and the demise of the Jewish Zealots. The discoveries of Scrolls of scripture which verified such texts as Ecclesiasties, Ezekiel, Leviticus & Psalms is quite fascinating. I had no idea the place was so fully developed or lavishly built. The Roman seige was masterful. The history given in the book is insightful. A good read.
This is a terrific follow-up to The Dovekeepers by Alice Hoffman.It is the story of the real life excavation from 1963-1965 of the Judean desert rock-fortress of Masada that is the location of the Jewish Zealot's story told in the Dovekeepers.It is filled with pictures (many in color), diagrams, maps and aerial shots of the actual place where 960 Zealot defenders preferred to kill themselves rather than surrender to the Romans in 73 A.D.
I added the book to my list and finally checked it out from the library, a year after my trip.
I'm not sure what I was expecting, but this read and looked like a textbook, detailing the initial archeological dig of Masada several decades ago.
While this book was very informative, I would only recommend it to several specific groups of people - archeology enthusiasts, those interested in Biblical or Jewish history, and those traveling to Masada.
The book is out of print and a little tough to find, so check with your local library first.
This book recounts the archaeological excavation of the Judean rock fortress of Masada that took place in 1963-1965, and I found it interesting on many levels.
The archaeological staff was joined by thousands of volunteers who endured primitive conditions and a lot of heat to help uncover the foundations of the palatial fortress built by King Herod the Great as well as traces of the Jewish Zealots who defied Rome from this spot from 66 to 73 AD.
The story of the archaeologists and volunteers life during the dig is interesting in itself.

The story of the excavation is first and foremost, and where appropriate Yadin includes excerpts of Josephus' account of the Zealots and the Roman siege.
The text is well-written for it's intentions, which Yadin makes clear from the start.
This is not a scientific, scholarly work, but a record of the excavations, the finds, and what he interpreted them to mean.I liked the inclusion of the volunteer application at the end.
If I'd have been alive in the 60s, I would certainly have applied to work on the site, how amazing it must've been - difficult, strenuous, even back-breaking, but amazing.
Early on in this book Yigael Yadin shares his purpose.
He did not wish to write a boring scholarly book on the excavation of Masada, but a book that would allow readers to understand the thrill of discovery.
It seems he accomplished his goal.This book is not about the history of Masada as much as the archeology, although Yadin does quote from Josephus and other authors.
The book has many pictures, maps and building plans to aid in understanding the excavations.The excavation occured in 1963-1965, I believe, and this book was published in 1966.
Of course, some few remained to rebel against the new rulers, but these were few in number.One such group took the Herodian fortress, Masada, and conducted raids on the Roman occupied land for almost three years.
Finally, after a long and amazing seige, 10,000 Romans broke into the fortress only to find that the night before, all 960 Jewish inhabitants had killed themselves rather than live in slavery.This book, which is fascinating, readable, and moving, describes the archaeological excavation of Masada and reports on the findings of the work conducted in the 1960's.
A fascinating book
This was actually entertaining and an important work - but, and it's not surprising having read it, it was not scientific, and maybe somewhere around completely unprofessional. I just started a book called Sacrificing Truth, which is not debunking Yadin's work here, but a study into what led Yadin to publish such an unscientific work as science...in other words it apparently begins with the assumption that it's already been proven that Yadin's work is bunk.
Ordered the book prior to going to Masada, but it wasn't delivered until after my trip. I actually think reading it after was a better way to do it because I understood the geography better. Amazing place.
If you are going to Israel, have been, will be, or just interested in...this is a great book on Masada & one of the very first archaeological digs (includes fascinating "before" pics). Great tales for the Indiana Jones in all of us...okay, maybe just me, but humor me.
I enjoyed this book, though it's not a history book as much as it's a book about the early Masada excavation. The pictures are stunning and the description of the early conditions for the excavation team are endearing. It's a gift book, really, but a good gift book.
Provides detailed information about the excavation of Masada and shares the historical references.
This was a really good documentation of an archaeological dig in Israel. Wonderful pictures too.
Fascinating learned a lot
You can feel a connection to something that happened two thousand years ago.Some of this book achieves that connection through time, most of it is academic and insightful.
OK
