https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244102.Open_Season
Are you looking for a new mystery series?
Do you like your justice served with rawhide, gun oil, and cheap saloon pilsner?Look no further - welcome to the world of Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett whose heart is way bigger than his luck.
The setting is the fictional town of Saddlestring at the base of the Bighorn Mountains in north-central Wyoming - and you can almost smell and feel the crisp mountain air while you are reading.
The great thing about this series is, if you like this first offering, I can guarantee you that it only gets better from here!
NEW BEST FRIEND!!!Hello CJ Box and his game warden protagonist Joe Pickett!
I’ll be coming to visit your little part of Wyoming again and again.Box introduced game warden Pickett in this debut novel in 2001.
I had a neighbor years ago who was a Tennessee Wildlife Resource agent (game warden) and he told a story about one of his colleagues who was ticketing an outfitter way out in the Smokey Mountains of eastern Tennessee and the man’s client was Steven Seagal.
Act now!”Joe Pickett loves his job as a game warden, but it’s a tough gig trying to support his family on a small salary and constantly suffering by comparison to the legendary warden he replaced when the older man retired.
I also liked how Joe’s work was shown as important but thankless, and how he was starting to worry that his love of the job was going to hurt his family.
Joe spends a lot of time figuring out what’s going to be obvious to most readers, and it’s frustrating watching your hero get manipulated when you’ve already figured it all out.Liked it, didn’t love it.
It’s actually been two weeks or so since I’ve finished this – so this review may be a bit sparse on details.Not that a lot of exposition is required to review Open Season.
While the structure of the story isn’t particularly novel as far as mystery stories or police procedurals are concerned, the environmental aspect certainly is.
See, Joe Pickett isn’t a cop or a P.I., he’s a game ranger.
However, once things get going they really get going.
Damn, but things get a bit tense there.
When a man dies in his front yard carrying a cooler, Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett finds himself thrust into a mystery, a mystery that might cost him everything he holds dear...Over the past ten years, I've read hundreds of mysteries and thrillers.
"Wyoming game warden" isn't something that comes to mind when I think of a sleuth.Open Season starts out by establishing that Joe Pickett is a good man but not precisely on the ball.
I liked that Joe was a by the book game warden rather than some kind of smart mouth maverick like so many other sleuths.The setup for the mystery was good but I felt like everything after that was telegraphed.
This is the first C.J. Box book I have read and I am not disappointed at all! I found it so interesting and actually read it in one sitting. I have been wanting to read the Joe Picket series for awhile now and am so glad I finally did. This game warden is one intriguing character. I will continue the series after finishing the Alex Cross series. My quick and simple overall: an awesome start to a series. 👍👍
"The monster, Sheridan said, had come down from the mountains through the dark, steep canyon behind the house very late last night....
There was something white, a large sack or box, swinging from the monsters hand."Sheridan, stop talking about monsters", Joe called out.
"You're going to scare your little sister"." I'm already scared", Lucy declared pulling her blanket to her mouth."Then the man walked slowly away across the yard through the gate toward the woodpile where he fell down into a big shadow.
"Hold it, Sheridan, Joe said abruptly, entering the room with a spatula in his hand.
'"Sheridan looked up quizzically, her big eyes wide.
Besides, Box thinks Michael Connelly is great and as you all know I’m a Connelly fan.The Line ”Joe rarely found a reason to draw his weapon, and even if he did, he doubted he could hit anything with it.”The Sinker – As you might expect this kickoff introduces the man, giving us a glimpse of Joe, his family, wife Marybeth, daughters Sheridan and Lucy and the beautiful locale of Twelve Sleep, high country, Wyoming.
There are seven parts to Open Season each beginning with either a quote from The Endangered Species Act or consideration of said.
3.5★The wilds of Wyoming, controversy between ranchers and conservationists, plus our main guy, game warden Joe Pickett made for an entertaining mystery/thriller and introduced me to book 1 in a series that I will continue reading.
Rumor has it that Robert Redford would like to produce a TV series based on the books.
Since I can’t get enough of Longmire, bring it on.
I would classify this as man-lit which women can appreciate.
A great advantage being a woman is we can read chick-lit and man-lit and enjoy them equally.
:DPerfect for relaxed reading in between heavier, longer adventures in literature.
Joe Pickett, our main character, is the new game warden In Wyoming.
Joe is the kind of guy I like to read about.
He starts looking closely at the murders and possibly an endangered species living in that wood pile.
If there is an endangered species in the area, the natural gas company can't put a pipeline through.
There are higher stakes at play as his sights on the killer and the real motive emerge.I've found a new series and character to wrap my arms around!
Dear Sheriff Longmire, please don't be mad at me for cheating on you with another Wyoming lawman.
We had a good time.
I mean, Joe is lawful good, to an extreme.
Plus Wyoming is always a good time for an outdoors-lovin' girl like me.
The mystery was solid and I will continue the series, but I think Joe and I will remain "just friends".
He's the Wyoming lawman for me.
I just didn't get into Joe like I do Walt.
Anyway, I will continue hanging out with Joe when I have some downtime, because why not?
This is a mystery / thriller but it also (IMHO) a story with a message about the Endangered Species Act. Joe Pickett is the game warden in Twelve Sleep, Wyoming and relatively new on the job.
There had to be a reason the first outfitter made his way to Joe's house and died in his backyard splayed on his woodpile.InterWest is a multi-national natural gas company with big plans to build an oil pipeline across Wyoming that could bring jobs and money to Twelve Sleep.
But these plans could be derailed by a cute endangered species brought to the woodpile in Joe's backyard.
★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I haven't heard the narrator, David Chandler, read before. At first, neither he nor the book grabbed me. I mean, I was interested, but not captivated. That changed as the book progressed! Looking forward to listening to him narrate the rest of this series, as he certainly became Joe Pickett to me.Excellent start to the series. Nice slow build, that comes to a believable and satisfying conclusion. Sure, at times, I knew where the story was going, but ther
★★★★½ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I haven't heard the narrator, David Chandler, read before.
At first, neither he nor the book grabbed me.
I mean, I was interested, but not captivated.
That changed as the book progressed!
Looking forward to listening to him narrate the rest of this series, as he certainly became Joe Pickett to me.Excellent start to the series.
Nice slow build, that comes to a believable and satisfying conclusion.
Sure, at times, I knew where the story was going, but there were certainly some surprises.
And my heart was in my throat more than once.
This was typical of the genre. The body of a murdered man on the wood pile behind the home of a young game warden leads him to an investigation in which he will bring down corrupt politicians and big oil money. Despite being out numbered and facing threats to his livelihood and the safety of his family, he never falters. There is the usual amount of implausible scenarios, including the incredible shoot out. There is enough attention to developing the characters that the story was more interesting than formulaic.
This was a quick and simple read...and by simple I mean obvious in pretty much every aspect.
Joe is such an OBVIOUS boy scout...whose only flaw seems to be a couple of personal habits that cause his wife to fear that other people will think him mentally slow.
The mystery aspect is also OBVIOUS with the who-done-it and the why-they-done-it being pretty clear from the get go...and I say that as someone who never tries to figure out the mystery ahead of the protagonist.
There's nothing interesting on the home front either since Joe's family life is pretty bland.
I was only going to give this three stars, but shit got real toward the end.
A solid 4 stars.This is the first entry in the long-running Joe Pickett series by C.J. Box. It’s a police procedural mystery thriller set in Saddlestring, Wyoming where Pickett is a U.S. Game and Fish warden for Twelve Sleep County.This is definitely an unusual setting since the area is so sparsely populated that the number of characters in the story is pretty small.
I believe I will read more books in the series because I’m curious to see what will happen to Joe (and his family, especially Sheridan) in the following books and to find out how Box has been able to come up with over a dozen compelling stories set in the sparsely populated Wyoming countryside featuring Joe Pickett.
This reissue of the Joe Pickett classic has all the tell-tale signs of greatness that would keep its author, CJ Box, crafting many more novels to come.
A Wyoming native, Box infuses his books with a love of the land and the modern issues that concern the people who live there.In this first novel, readers are introduced to straight-shooter Game Warden Joe Pickett and his family.
Trying to eke out a living, Joe doesn't take short cuts and won't look the other way when it comes to upholding his duty.
Box infuses his story with the beauty and value of nature and makes readers care about his hero, Joe Pickett.
A quick but predictable mystery set in Wyoming. I may read more, but for now I like Craig Johnson's WY setting and Paul Doiron's ME game warden more.
This was my first book by C.J. Box and luckily it was also the first in the Joe Pickett series.
I really liked this book.
The protagonist is an average Joe (no pun intended) who isn't particularly clever or handsome or strong.
He is just a hard working guy trying to do his best for both his family and his job.
I like books that have characters that are a bit flawed to make them more believeable.I will definitely read more in this series.
I can now take 1 book off my TBR list but have to add 9 more in this series.
Pickett is not cop, detective, or sheriff, and while educated about the things he would be -- mostly game and guns -- multiple murders are considerably outside his area of expertise.
I don't want to say any more and spoil anything, but the mystery kept me guessing a while (view spoiler)[I couldn't decide if it was former game warden Vern Dunnegan or the game warden from the next county over, Wacey Hedeman, it never occurred to me it was both of them.
One final unrelated thought -- author C.J. Box did an excellent job when he switched to Pickett's daughter Sheridan's point-of-view.
A fantastic start to the Joe Pickett series. I started this series in the middle and was not sure the beginning would be as good as the latest, but it was. Joe really puts himself on the line in this addition, he is new and messing with folks that don't want him nosing around in their business. A big developer will stop at nothing to cover up an endangered species and that includes going after Joe and his family. Suspenseful and fast moving. Great as a stand alone as well.
SO SO SO GOOD.Joe Pickett is a Wyoming game warden, just an all-around good guy.
I love the premise of the story, the way CJ Box marries endangered animals, big game hunting, and the environment into the plot.
Audiobook Notes: At first, I wasn't sure how I would enjoy David Chandler as the voice of Joe Pickett.
Honestly, he doesn't have the most "tough guy" voice that I've ever heard and I thought Pickett was supposed to be this big game warden out of Wyoming, so I was expecting something maybe a little heavier or deeper.
JK Really, but I got a problemo with secrets.)Joe Pickett, a Wyoming game warden, who's having a hard time making ends meet, what with a wife, two kids and a third on the way - (And HALT!
Joe's also in another dicey situation: he's offered a job which requires him to keep quiet about the murder of those two men up in the hills - the authorities quickly figured it all out, he's told and he doesn't need to go do any investigating on his own.
3.5 stars So I had a 2 main reasons for reading this book and series.
And the second is that CJ Box and Sandra Brown, another favorite must read author of mine, are doing a MatchUp where CJ Box's Joe Pickett (from this series) and Lee Coburn (from Sandra Brown's Lethal) work together.
Since I am familiar with Lee Coburn I thought it would do me good to get to know Joe Pickett as well.
In relation to my first reason for reading this series, it fell a little flat.
Although I found it slow and stressful, lol, I enjoyed the plot and in the end enjoyed it.
The mystery was solid.
The topic of endangered species and a mystery surrounding that is not something that I've seen before and Box is able to navigate it well.
I liked him and the rest of the characters were written well also.
Box switches the point of view from Joe to his young daughter effortlessly and it's pretty convincing.
The Wyoming wilderness and surrounding landscapes were depicted well and added a nice touch to the novel and added an additional sense of intrigue.
A solid mystery novel with a bit of different plot from the norm.
Fabulous! I am thrilled to find this “new to me” author. Box’s debut novel is suspenseful and informative. It is the second book about a game warden that I’ve read recently. The locale for Game Warden, Joe Pickett, is Wyoming. Box develops interesting characters and I am looking forward to reading more books in the series.
Joe Pickett is the new game warden in Wyoming. He's not popular because he upholds the law.A body is found at his back door. Joe investigates.What made this story more interesting is the involvement of Joe's family, specifically his little girl. No one messes with Joe's family and gets away with it.I've read several stories in this series and going back to the first book seemed natural. What an opening book to this series. Pickett is one person I think about after the book is closed. I'm already looking forward to another story in this series.
Well this was one of those books where after reading a few chapters, you just aren't sure if you're going to like it too much.
In fact I was mildly regretting already purchasing three other books in the Joe Pickett series.
I'm eager to see what the next is like.At the beginning, I wasn't too fond of Joe Pickett.
He seemed too weak to be a character in such a large series.
However, I had wrongly mistaken restraint and strength for fragility.Although, from the start, I appreciated the characters of his family.I'd highly recommend reading this book.
ebookThe story was bit slow, then the last third just flew by. The author's prose had me remembering a working vacation to Acme, just outside Sheridan, Wy. , in the '70's. Acme was a defunct strip mine where we had to bring in our own drinking water. I re-experienced the sounds and smells and the colloquialism of the regional folks.I highly recommend this to anyone to read before picking up something set in URBANITY!
