https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147039.Dona_Flor_and_Her_Two_Husbands
The strange and moving account of the experiences of Dona Flor, professor emeritus of the culinary art, and her two husbands, the first known as Vadinho; the second, Dr. Teodoro Madureira by name, pharmacist by professionorThe Fearsome Battle between Spirit and MatterNarrated by Jorge Amado,public scrivener located in the Rio Vermelho quarterof the city of Salvador da Bahia de Todos os Santos, in the neighborhood of Largo de Sant' Ana, where Yemanja, Our Lady of the Waters, dwells.
Jorge Amado found with this novel a fun kneading dough between her expert hands. His writing comical, funny, spiritual and incomparable emotional intelligence, enabling it to exploit parallel universes and controversial topics.And addresses topics with such masterly playing with the history, customs of an era and beliefs of a society undergoing political and cultural effervescence.Tolerance as a way of life, good humor as a solution to daily hassles, nonchalance as an escape from more serious problems, it is the portrait of a people and a unique philosophy of life in the world!Furiously burlesque and comical!
Here, it is a love triangle: Vadinho, a rascal and a gambler who is good at nothing except in bed where he is unforgettable; Dona Flor, Vadinho's wife, a beauty and an excellent cook (like Gabriela) who becomes a young widow when Vadinho suddenly drops dead in a carnival while wearing a costume and a fake penis; and Dr. Teodoro, a pharmacist, well-educated, very caring and respectful even in bed (Wednesdays and Saturdays only, with a repeat performance every Saturday).
Especially the day he drops dead in a Carnival street dance.Flor grieves for him, but life goes on, and the aforementioned stuffy family won't tolerate a single woman in her prime to be left in peace.
So many people of both genders and all persuasions can relate to this.Then...then...Vadinho's horny ghost shows up!
Is the story in Flor's mind, a desperately bored woman's attempt to recapture some small sense of joy in life, or is Vadinho real?I don't exactly know, even yet.

One of the greatest Brazilian novels, read years ago.
Здоровезний об’єм, який (пам пам пам) цілком виправданий.Лише латиноси вміють зробити прочитання абсолютно пустої змістовно та суто настроєвої описової води прочитанням "в кайф".
Роман настільки різниться від Генералы песчаных карьеров, що навіть хочеться їх перечитати.
Перегляду паралельно до прочитання (іспанського) серіалу El ministerio del tiempo, перегляду не джаст фо лулз, але для вивчення іспанської, мені поки що й так достатньо для передозняка на прийдешні десятиріччя подібного штибу серіальністю.Читати, якщо ви до того вже перечитали всього, навіть і найкічевішого, Борхеса та бажаєте такого типу "шукаю сина від третьої дружини, що втік від доньки моєї теперішньої за науськуванням розбійників до сельви".
але вважайте.
I don’t only want to read books reinforce national stereotypes, but in a wet London November, a bit of Brazil seems quite tempting.And more importantly, it was recommended by a friend.
Just reading my own description of it almost makes me want to read it again; but the actual experience of reading it wasn’t so great.Not that it’s a bad book, but it didn’t ever quite grab me; and after 550 pages, any book that you’re not actively enjoying is going to seem like a bit of a chore.
This book. Wow where to begin. It took me a couple minutes to realize how amazing this was. At first when it ended I was a little unsure if I liked it but as it started sink in I realized it has to be one of the finest book I have ever read. This enlighten me in the interworking minds of many people I know I feel refreshed and enlighten and ready to continue in my life with a new improved perspective.
How can you have sex at prescribed, regular times sighs Dona Flor.
Here is Teodoro who loves her, treats her with respect, never deprives her of her hard earned money on the other hand we have Vadinho who only has his sexual expertise.
How Dona Flor pines for Vadinho, her body cries out to him and in that yearning Goddess Yemanja comes to her aid.
Yemanja with her magical powers ‘brings back Vadinho” and well…..you can only imagine how happy Dona Flor is, the romps are back and they are just as good as before Vadinho died.The book has many facets to it; the central one of course being Dona Flor’s physical needs, her sexual cravings.

This is Middlemarch, written in modern times, that happens to be gloriously in Brazil and in some ways is even better.
To contrast this with Middlemarch, I got more out of this because the social conventions and issues are not as dated, the conclusions are still scandalous and it feels like this could still happen now, while Middlemarch is stuck in its age .
It's got a great deal of repetition, it seems, but really it's about subtle changes over time.
People have their vices but are presented as three-dimensional.
In other words, they dont just have vices.
Any book that has me constantly thinking of food, sex and magic is amazing in my book.
A book with everything; sly wit, erotic passion, voodoo, a ghost, rapturous meanderings over food, even a recipe or two.
Dona Flor can tell you.
Dona Flor is in love with her husband but he is a womanizer, a gambler and a drunk and manages to die of a heart attack in the first chapter.
Dona Flor is devastated but her friends thinks she should be lucky to be rid of such a loser.
Dona Flor finds a new husband and he is a faithful and adoring man but maybe a little boring.
Then her first husband returns.
Bahia... che profumi, che atmosfere... se ripenso a questo libro mi sembra di ricordare un viaggio e non una lettura: mi sembra di esserci stata veramente.  Storia coinvolgente con una indimenticabile protagonista femminile.
"Gabriela" mi-a placut mai mult.
Cartea incepe in forta, pe parcursul primei jumatati nu iti vine sa o lasi din mana, apoi scade in intensitate devenind relativ plictisitoare spre final.
Cartea ridica probleme interesante despre viata in cuplu, despre sotul ideal, sotia ideala, despre viata in doi in general.
Totusi pana la parabola magica cartea devine atat de boring, incat la sfarsit nu mai vroiam decat sa o termin.4 stele, de fapt 3,5 pentru prima jumatate.
De fapt toata cartea este o poveste frumoasa, doar ca la un moment dat pe mine m-a pierdut.
i like Amado writing as he has a keen eye for his people and for this you have to travel in your own country. especially Brazil which is so diverse. it is a colorful picture of Brazil. still
I must admit that this is great literature, and would deserve 5 stars. But…it just wasn’t my cup of tea. Too slow, too much detail, too much rambling.
một cuốn sách rất tinh quái, ngập tràn màu sắc, hương vị và rộn ràng tiếng nhạc. Jorge Amago là một nhà văn đặc biệt hài hước, cách ông kể chuyện rất sinh động, hấp dẫn và tràn đầy bất ngờ.
8 de 10*Há já muito tempo que desejava ler Jorge Amado. Afinal, as suas histórias fizeram parte do meu imaginário, numa altura em que as novelas a que assistíamos na televisão eram brasileiras e, muitas delas, baseadas nos livros deste famoso autor.Quis o acaso que começasse por “Dona Flor e Seus Dois Maridos”, história que desconhecia totalmente. Confesso desde já que achei a escrita de Jorge Amado algo difícil e trabalhosa, mas compensadora. Achei muito interessante a forma como o autor envolve o leitor, quase como se nos chamasse para uma conversa.Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.pt...
The middle-class inhabitants of a small neighborhood of Salvador, Bahia, have their traditional ideas about everyday life, behavior distinct from the practices of disreputable, immoral lowlifes, artists, and street-corner musicians elsewhere in the town.
However skeptical about the explanations offered by those mercenary mediums who are keen to supernatural presences, the reader sees that some voodoo rituals/human petitions to gods as well as someone like deeply feeling Dona Flor find a pathway(s) between everyday and eternal realms.
Overall, DONA FLOR is good from beginning to end but is amazing in the last fifth.
This is a beautifully and imaginatively written story about an everyday woman who has to come to terms with different facets of her own personality and what that means about the men she falls in love with and how she loves them in return.
I'm very surprised at how well a man is able to tap into the raw emotions and desires of a female character, but Jorge Amado can be an honorary woman in my book!
I had no idea about this book and its author when I decided to read it.
And now I'm genuinely surprised with the plot and ethic aesthetics which author has not only mentioned, but naturally written in the lives of characters.The last part of the book reminded me of the book "One Hundred Years of Solitude" by Gabriel García Márquez.
And only after finishing, I have found out that "Dona Flor..." was written in a genre of Magical Realism (along with "One Hundred Years...".I really recommend this book.
This is one of my all time favorite books. It is so "latin" in the sense that it supposes that passion and stability cannot co-exist except in an utterly unexpected way. I can't believe I am old enough to say I read it over twenty-something years ago. It was one my first forays into "latin american literature" and I must say it did not disappoint. A must read if you like passion and ghosts.
Recensione originale: https://sonnenbarke.wordpress.com/201...Da tempo ero curiosa di leggere qualcosa di Jorge Amado e finalmente mi sono decisa a prendere in mano uno dei suoi romanzi più famosi, sperando che, pur nella sua mole (573 pagine) si rivelasse una lettura leggera per un periodo pieno di cose da fare.
In effetti sì, è una lettura leggera.Dona Flor si innamora di quello che diventerà il suo primo marito, Vadinho, il quale però muore giovanissimo dopo soli sette anni di matrimonio.
Il primo marito però resterà per sempre nel suo cuore, e non solo.Potremmo dire che è un romanzo allegro, spensierato, denso di piaceri, che insegna ad amare e godersi la vita.
Early on in the novel Amado throws out a phrase which might as well encapsulate the whole novel, "callipygian exuberance"-- this is a hilariously raunchy Brazilian novel largely featuring the lower classes who live with such ferocity that we are forced to ask if Carnival ever ends in Latin America.
From the start when her gambling, womanizing husband Vadinho drops dead I laughed (trust me - it is very funny) and then, the book took a more serious turn when she married the very staid pharmacist husband Dr. Teodoro and I enjoyed Amado's reflections on life and marriage.
When Doña Flor and Vadinho get married, she leaves her daughter because she married a "low-life" and when Vadinho dies, good old mom returns to say "I told you so" (in much more colourful language).
After Vadinho dies, Doña Flor begins having erotic dreams that at first are funny, but then Amado shows us how tormented she is becoming.
Ho letto "Dona Flor e i suoi due mariti" dopo un percorso di letture belle ma sconvolgenti, dolorose.
Una lettura fresca, leggera, solare, ironica che mi ha regalato il sorriso e la voglia di lasciarmi tra ...
(continua) Ho letto "Dona Flor e i suoi due mariti" dopo un percorso di letture belle ma sconvolgenti, dolorose.
Una lettura fresca, leggera, solare, ironica che mi ha regalato il sorriso e la voglia di lasciarmi travolgere dal turbine voluttuoso di un samba irrefrenabile.
L'amore tenero e rispettoso, nobile e rispettabile e l'amore sballato, impuro e ardente che fa soffrire e di fronte al quale non c'è possibilità di fuga.
This novel reached into my heart and mind and drew me into its mystical, magical, superstitious Brazilian tale.
Jorge Amado starts by tickling the reader's fancy with a romance between a good girl, Flor, and a lovable, sensual gambler, Vadinho.
All the while, Amado, while weaving a marvelous, prototypical Brazilian melodrama, is laying the complex groundwork for what I consider to be the primary theme of the novel.
Just when I thought I was in the groove of the story of duality within our protagonist, Flor, Amado's tale erupts in primordial chaos of mind, body, and spirit.
L'animo di tutte le donne e di ogni tipo di donna.Perché le troviamo più o meno tutte (o quasi) le donne in "Dona Flor e i suoi due mariti" e ognuna di loro è solo un lato che si può trovare in tutte le donne.Queste donne con tutte le loro assurdità, le loro irrazionalità, i loro sogni e i loro segreti, le loro gelosie e le loro manie sono sicuramente la parte più viva del romanzo.Inutile negare che dona Flor è in ognuna di noi, perché lei è l'Amore.
