https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/522471.Hope_Was_Here
HOPE WAS HERE is a story of new beginnings and positivism.
New town, new job, new people, new challenges, Hope and Addie are ready to face it all.
Joan Bauer weaves into the storyline politics in a small town, the definition of family and the importance of letting new people in our lives.On the not-so-great-side, it has an uneven pacing: sometimes it's slow, other times fast.
The romance is never developed in a lyrical, heartfelt way.
And, well, it’s too short!But it’s pleasant and the kind of book I would read on the bus on my way to school.
However, as a Newberry Medal Honor Book, the playground kind of turns more into a raquetball court and the kid has to be good to play in it.
The abandonment issues the protagonist, Hope, experiences are too mature for young elementary age and older, middle school and high school aged adolescents certainly can grasp the concept of a flawed character or even impure motives.
How can you hate G.T. and his good-guy-leukemia-fighter-town-fixer-upper-cook self?
I couldn't even hate Hope, and her far-older-than-actual-sixteen-year-old-mentality even though I never understood her, or her motivation to become so politically involved (because the author never let us know that.
Hope Was Here is about a 16 year old girl who lives with her aunt - the two of them find work at the beginning of the book at a diner in Wisconsin owned by a man with leukemia.
This book is great for 13-16 year old girls who want to read stories about a real girl (nothing against fantasy books, but it's nice when we can read about a cool heroine who actually lives in our world) who doesn't spend all her time shopping and partying (*coughGossip Girlcough*) or pining after various boys (*coughTwilightcough*).
W O W.This book was good.Don't get me wrong, it had its flaws--it's not an instant favorite of mine. But it was so full of meaning and hope that I can't help liking it.  Lovely Things: - The heart. This book had SO much heart to it. Like...wow. Who would have thought that waitressing/cooking could be so rich in meaning? (P.S. I did cry in the last chapter or two. And here I was thinking I could make it without getting punched in the feels. #soclose)- The setting. ACK YES. It had such a familiar
But it was so full of meaning and hope that I can't help liking it.
It had such a familiar feel to it, even though I've never read this book before.
It's impossible to read this book without getting hungry.
Thankfully, I didn't notice a TON of that later in the book, but the writing style was still not my favorite.
XD I wasn't a huge fan of a lot of the political things happening in the book, but honestly, it didn't annoy me that much.
This was a really good book.
Oh my word <3 This book had been recommended to me by several friends so I purchased it through Thriftbooks and I am so glad that I own a copy! The themes of hope and inner strength under pressure and in new circumstances were inspring and laced well. I loved the entire thread of Hope trying to pinpoint her own identity and find out the true meaning of family. The setting of a new town, local diner, and small town politics were cute and realistic. It's an easy read, very refreshing, and worthwhile!
Waitressing at the diner in Brooklyn was great for Hope, but, like all good things, it comes to an end.
G.T is a man the town loves, and he's going to run for mayor and change things.
Hope, Addie, and countless others are trying to get him elected, so that he can do some good for the town.
Maybe to some people (you know the type--not good enough unless you've got a diploma from Harvard), waitressing seems like a dead-end job, but this book shows different sides of it.
When I read this book, I had a 1-year old daughter (who is now almost 5) and I can't help but say how much I like the character, Hope.
She is a great, young female character because of the way she cares about her family, cares about her friends, and is willing to work hard to make her community a better place.
(Bonus note: I've now read 2 more of Joan's books and she continuously writes great female characters)2) Teen Activism/Education.
Hope and most of her friends, though, aren't even old enough to vote...but I love that their inability to vote does not dampen their ability to share their stories and thoughts and influence the community.
Wowza, this book! So amazing! Definitely check it out! (and grab a box of tissues too.)
When she and her aunt arrive in Wisconsin to run a diner, they find themselves in the midst of a controversial mayoral race and a lot of small-town drama.
(Even those that, in the back of their mind, know that they will end up as waitresses, do not make this a life goal.) Hope loves being a waitress and has wanted to have a job as one since she was thirteen.
G.T. Stoop, the candidate for mayor and owner of the diner where Hope and her aunt work, is basically a perfect man.
I love this book a lot.
I just picked it up again when I was in a sad mood and immediately remembered how much I had loved it the first time.
I adore the way it's written and I love the simple story that it tells.
One of the main reasons I love this book is because the Main character, Hope, is just like me.
I spend over half of my time cooking and I love any story that relates life to food.
The relationships in this book are really sweet too.
I am forcing my mom and dad to read this book.
I recommend this book to anyone.
I miss you Pa...Around the Year in 52 books: A book with a first name in the title - 3/52
Hope is a teenager that lives with her aunt Addie as her mother has left her to continue her waitressing career.
When we find Hope at the beginning of the novel, she is leaving Brooklyn as her aunt, who is a cook, has to find a new job.
Her partner stole their money and went away with one of the waitress.As they move on the road, Hope thinks about the times she has to leave her friends and change school.
G.T. is running for mayor of the town and his campaing leads the teenagers of the nearby school to fully become involved.
3.75 stars!Wow, this was a GOOD book. It left me feeling strong and hopeful.At first it was just interesting. Then it became super cute. Then it got emotional. Despite its very fast (almost rushed?) pace and the writing style that wasn't my favorite (though still good), I have to say that I really love beautiful Hope and the whole supporting cast. Their story is one I'm very glad I read. <3
Have you ever had to adapt to a new place in life unexpectedly? In the novel “Hope Was Here” by Joan Bauer, the main character, Hope, has faced this challenge many times in her life, as she is constantly moving around. The main lesson of this book is no matter what challenges come in your way, you can always push through them and succeed.  Hope is a normal teenage girl, but she doesn’t have a very normal life. Her father left her when she was born, and her mother leaves her as a toddler. She liv
In the novel “Hope Was Here” by Joan Bauer, the main character, Hope, has faced this challenge many times in her life, as she is constantly moving around.
The main lesson of this book is no matter what challenges come in your way, you can always push through them and succeed.
There are minor problems and not everything goes as planned, but Hope is still able to adapt to her new life as usual.
I believe this book was quite predictable and a little too slow for me personally.
There wasn’t enough action, and I personally believe that the main conflict, the election, wasn’t that interesting.
Hope Was Here was such a moving book.
This book was about a girl that moves from city to city based on how long her and her aunt can keep a diner job.
Hope and her aunt have lived together since she could remember and this was because her mother wasn't ready to be a mother so she gave her to her aunt, Addie.
Hope was glad that she had Addie and grateful her mother wasn't her guardian but the one thing she longed for was a real father.
When a colorful co-worker steals their money and their hope, they move from Brooklyn to Mulhoney Wisconsin to manage the Welcome Stairway Diner.There they find rotten politics, a corrupt corporation and a tainted policeman.
Balanced with this is the owner of the Welcome diner, a honest, open, sincere man who runs for Mayor to displace the long-term incompetent, dishonest incumbent.In Mulhoney Wisconsin the good people find love, renewed hope and they learn that where the heart breaks it also heals.Highly recommended and destined to be my #1 read of 2010.
I loved this book about a 16 year old girl named Hope and her close friend Addie.
Consequently, Hope and Addie take off for a small town in Wisconsin.Through a man they meet and the circumstances of their life, they learn a great deal about growing up.
Hope is a very strong character and a good role model for young girls.
I recommend this book for middle school and high school young adults.
I will be recommending this book to my freshman students, girls especially.
I think adults will like this book as well if they enjoy a quick and easy read.
I love how this book left me feeling when I finished it. And I'm not talking about warm and fuzzy. Somehow, the story seemed real, in a way. It felt like I was there, sure that the adrenaline rushes were mine, the losses were mine, the victories were mine. Part of me wishes that I didn't read the book so that I could experience everything again. Experience everything in the exact same way I did this first time. But, of course, you probably won't know what I'm talking about until you've read it yourself.
The theme of the story is to believe in yourself and of course hope for the better because no matter in what circumstances you are, you need to move on and continue.A moment that affected the story was when Hope moved because she really changed.
Hope is a very strong person but this change was really hard for her because she moved and she left all her friends where she used to live.
Although she moves a lot she does not like changes, especially because she really liked where she used to live.
So if any time in your life span you end up moving to a different place, just think about Hope, and have hope for yourself.
INT: “Today we’re lucky enough to be here with the new mayor of our small town. G.T. Stoop’s successful campaign led him to the position of mayor here in Mulhoney, Wisconsin. However, G.T., as the whole town has read in Hope Was Here by Joan Bauer, you’ve faced a lot of opposition on your quest to be mayor, wanna touch on that?”  STOOP: “For sure, first of all thanks for having me, I really appreciate all of this. Secondly, this has not been an easy run, I been pushed physically and mentally the
It’s been a real treat to work hand in hand with the future of our town.”	INT: “Speaking of a treat, how have the past few months impacted business at the diner?”	STOOP: “Well, it’s been booming, though I’m not so sure it’s due to my campaign.
I think Mulhoney sensed that they needed a change.”INT: “On a more sensitive note, how has leukemia affected your personal and political life?”STOOP: “Some people say that a cancer diagnosis didn’t affect them at all, but that wasn’t my case.
I don't know exactly why, but Joan Bauer books are just, I don't know, I don't exactly know why I love them so much, but I just do.
But, they are still extremely fun to read, and I think I'm now in the middle of a new Joan Bauer phase.
She was so independent and strong, which is probably another reason why I love Bauer's books, I absolutely can not stand in books like Twilight where the female protagonist is weak and needs everyone's help for everything, it just bothers me, it's a terrible role model; and in all of Bauer's books I've read, the female protagonist is strong.
Hope was here is a phenomenal book for teen girls, but I think most everybody would enjoy this book.
In this book a young girl named hope lives with her aunt Addie, since her mom gave her to her aunt.
Dealing with no father, and a not so great mother, hope has learned to be...
Well, hopeful.
However, when they move to a small Wisconsin town hope isn't sure even she can adapt.
All the while staying hopeful her dad is searching for her and will find her soon.
After several surprising events, she learns maybe a real dad isn't quite who she expected.
Wow. Wow. WOW! What a terrific writer! She weaves together wonderful words and prismatic people into something really special. Lovely lovely lovely and exactly the kind of message I needed today. Positive yet not Pollyanna. Beautiful, not ugly, or crude, real. Deep and satisfying.Going right on the "books to buy list, kids must read list, tell people about/ share this book list."Very clean, age range perhaps 10+? That age won't appreciate it all, and there are some difficult issues, but it's so positive it just gives me so much ....well....hope.
Hope Was Here is a treat.It will engage you quickly, wrapping you in its pages and Mulhoney, Wisconsin.You will turn its pages, fascinated by this story that is so simple, and yet so enthralling. 186 pages and two or three hours later, you'll close the book. Satisfied. And wondering how such a lean book could be so gratifying.
I'm pretty flabbergasted that this was a Newbery Honor book. It reads like it was written for ninth graders by a ninth grader. The only reason I gave this book two stars instead of one is because the story took a sweet twist at the end. The characters were undeveloped and a bit caricatured and the writing was simplistic.
I read this in late middle school/early high school. I remember that it was a great story about the power of hope and resilience. It was a bit angsty (cancer is in the story - not a spoiler, it says that in the summary) but overall a really good story that I believe stands the test of time pretty well.
Very good book. The style and story line was a lot like Sharon Creech. Its about a young, intelligent girl trying to discover herself.
Character rating: 4 starsPlot: it was good.
I was so mad when Braverman got beat up and when Millstone started posting lies on the radio.
It was well written, and I loved the scenes when they were "in the weeds." Waitressing sounds like so much fun.Plot rating: 4 starsLanguage: there was no cursing or swearing that stood out to me, however the amount of times that God's name was used in vain really hurt, and so that got two stars docked off.
Language Rating 3 Stars.
Mention of woman leaving her husband for another man.
Rating 4 stars Violence: none really.
Rating 5 stars.
A diner cook (with an adopted kid in tow) travels back and forth across the country to take fairly menial jobs that last only a short time?
I guess maybe the same kind of people who find it necessary to specify "Webster's dictionary" and "Roget's thesaurus" and "Replogle globe." Perhaps it is supposed to be more realistic?
There were a lot of things like this - the book is unfocused because it tries to bring in too much.
Even those that get much time are kind of flat caricatures - seems like only the blacks are religious.
If you haven't read this book yet, then it's the time to read it.
I did like the first few chapters but not that much.
I thought, 'hey, I guess this is my least favorite Joan Bauer book.
I don't really like the story, politics and all.' But this book proved me wrong.
I realized that this book is just like another Joan Bauer book, it has a beautiful story, filled with so many lessons in life.
I like the message this book is trying to convey to its readers.
I like the characters.
And I like the truthfulness of it.
