https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226791.Total_Control
Long wait til suspenseful ending, rather preposterous plot...Maybe our expectations were set a little high after reading the author's great thriller "Absolute Power" and his almost as good "Simple Truth".
Unlike those stories where at least we cared about the protagonists and the plot had some cohesion, "Control" takes a awful long time to plod toward a thrilling finale.
Sidney, and hubby Jason, a technocrat putting together a lot of details to support the deal, get caught up in the struggle, and soon a plane crash leads the players (but not us readers, who know he's up to something seemingly sinister) to believe Jason was among the fatalities.
I thought the characters were incredibly shallow; one dimensional, and not one elicited any empathy and/or sympathy on my part.
Fine, it's a successful lawyer mom and a successful company executive dad who finds himself involved is some nefarious secretive hush hush fiasco in a corporation, a cover up, and a phony death.
Okay you're not holding my interest; in fact, you're boring me to death.
And that's another problem with this, uh, book?
Baldacci tells because he seems unable to show through the characters themselves.
This isn't third rate or a fourth rate book; it just isn't entitled to be rated.
PROTAGONIST: Sidney Archer, attorney; Lee Sawyer, FBIRATING: 4.0WHY: Jason Archer works for a huge technology firm, whose secrets he may or may not have stolen.
He's taking a secret trip to LA, which he's lied about to his attorney wife, Sidney, and switches to a Seattle flight at the last minute.
The LA flight is sabotaged, and all aboard die.
Sidney tries to sort out the truth of the situation and is eventually aided by an FBI agent, Lee Sawyer.
Although the book was over 500 pages, it held my attention throughout.
I liked Baldacci's first book but I loved this one.
It sucked me right in from word one.
Plus it's a fat book that just was wonderful all the way through.
Sidney Archer is a partner is a high powered law firm representing a successful high tech company in their purchase of another high tech company.
Sidney's life blows out of control as the following events unfold.
One of the readers of this page recently told me he just read Baldacci's next one "The Winner" and it was very disappointing.
I'm sorry because this one was the kind that makes you want to dive right into the author's next effort.
The book is a typical David Baldacci thriller with just the right amount of suspense and emotions.
I won't tell you that this novel enabled me to see shades of Ludlum, Mary Higgins Clark and Patterson - all at the same time.What I will tell you is that I'm writing the review of this 720 page paperback as the timer on my computer screen says 04:41 hours and that I'd started reading it from my bookmarked page 325 at 00:35 hours.
This is what Baldacci will do to you, no matter how hard you try to resist it.
A very thrilling novel, the plot keeps thickening until the very end, many twists and turns. I found some parts of the story to be kind of confusing and hard to follow but it all comes together in the end. The book was a little longer than necessary I thought some parts were kinda slow but it was still a good book. Highly recommended to Baldacci fan's.
Actually, I thought this could have been a good movie.Sometimes, I lost track of the characters, however, there was enough places within the plot where the characters and plots are summarized and it brought me back on track again.I liked both they characters Sydney and Lee. Sydney, although vulnerable, has a very strong personality which probably comes from her legal background.Lee is an exceptional agent with an open mind and does not give in to the pressure of solving the case as quickly as possible.
All very interesting subjects and since this book was published in 1997, I am reminded how far we have come in our computerized world.It's been a while since I have read a Baldacci.
After reading this book, I am reminded how good of an author he is.
Não sabia bem que pontuação lhe dar. Não dou uma porque não posso dizer que tá mal escrito, só que o tema não me agarrou. Li de arrasto até à pag 200 e a partir daí fui lendo aos pedaços para saber o final.Adorei o livro "os inocentes" do autor mas este não me cativou.
A great premise that is undermined by fantastical plot twists that defy belief.There is such a thing as too much. Total Control, much like sugar, will cause a tooth ache of the brain.The "are you being being serious" question repeats like a sledgehammer when all you want is contemplation.
Apart from this rather major negative (the convoluted telling) it's a solid FBI investigation and the star of the show isn't Jason Archer but Lee Sawyer, the tortured FBI special agent, tormented not just by his broken family life but by his attraction to Archer's wife, Sidney (Sawyer's attraction is kept well in control and does not intrude in the story, in case you're wondering).A little reminder: this book was published in 1997 so one has to bear with the explanations about email backups and pixels, etc, stuff back then we were just starting to get to know.Ohh, Sidney.
Interesting story, wonder why I took so long to read it? Normally I can get through a Baldacci in 2 to 3 days at most. This story reminds me of Grisham's thrillers; The Pelican Brief and The Firm I think... This review is under construction...thank you for your patience!  A plane crash in the very first chapter and technology talk like iris scan security...Jason's plane has crashed...the question is whether the man lives or not?Sidney gets the call that Jason's flight has crashed....but the man
But the mysterious killer killed them with her gun and also left behind the tape Paul made of Sidney talking with Jason over the phone.
She phone's Lee to say goodbye and is now on the run...Sidney has reached her parent's home borrowing her brother's car from New York.
If all of David Baldacci's novels are as riveting as the first two, I will have to expand my reading time. The twists and turns of good guys and bad keeps your eyes on who else will fall from grace or become a real hero. This guy can write.
It is amazing how technology dates a book.
Despite that, this story is fascinating.
Sidney and Jason Archer have an ideal life.
She's a top-notch attorney working for a top-notch firm on a mega-deal.
Her husband is working for one of the companies involved in that deal.
But Jason is holding something back.
But when the commercial jet he is supposedly on blows up, it becomes evident to Sidney that something else is going on.
The technology dates it because they are still sending email via AOL and talking about tape backups, but it didn't make it less enjoyable.
Jason Archer is upto something, but you don't know what.
The authorities and his employers soon start to blame Jason for sabotaging the aeroplane.
It was a first rate thriller that pushes the right buttons, the pace is fast but not too fast that you get whiplash, and you actually care about what happens to the characters.
Combine the realistic American setting and the power plays between the rich and powerful, and you have all the makings of a first rate thriller.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would definitely recommend it to anyone who likes a good thriller.
I am not sure now how I happened to have this book, but it was one on my 'clearance' shelf. At over 700 pages, it was too long. The story became tedious after a while - I just wanted to get to the end and be done with it. I was hoping for a real page-turner, but it wasn't. I was expecting better.
I think this novel is too long and loses steam because of it. 6 of 10 stars
Baldacci's second book did not repeat the success of the first, but is rather a bit in it's shadow I think. Characterization is lacking. But it is a good thriller if you know what you are in for.
Sr. FBI field agent Lee Sawyer is called out to a crash site of flight 3223 bound for LA from Dulles National Airport.
Finding the right wing of the plane a few miles from the crash site, Kaplan calls his old friend at the FBI, Agent Sawyer.
Distraught, she heads to the crash site and ends up knocking Agent Sawyer down in her hurry to find her dead husband's belongings.
Agent Sawyer ends up working both cases and in the process interviews Sidney and immediately is caught up in her beauty and pain.
I'm certain that almost all of us, at some point, have watched the generic, insipid, action popcorn flick which seems so far-fetched to the point we question if the movie should've been categorised as fantasy.
I don't know whether I would've liked this more if I read this when it was released; back in the 90s.
What I do know is that I didn't like the book —eventhough I really wanted to read it all and get to the end and that Baldacci could've done better.
This felt forced, far-fetched, insipid and tasteless.Would have been a one star, but is a two star because regardless of all the negatives, I wanted to keep reading.
Plots, sub plots, sub sub plots...I needed a chart to keep track of everyone and everything they were doing. Sidney managed to repeatedly kick ass though.
This is so good, it is hard to put it down! David Baldacci knows how to keep the reader up in the air and wanting more. So many twists and turns. Didn't know who did the deed until the very end.
Thriller - Sidney Archer has the world.
And suddenly there is no one whom Sidney Archer can trust.
Jason Archer is a rising young executive at Triton Global, the world's leading technology conglomerate.
He is about to disappear - leaving behind a wife who must sort out his lies from his truths, an aircrash investigation team that wants to know why the plane he was ticketed on suddenly fell from the sky, and a veteran FBI agent who wants to know it all.
Soon Archer's wife, Sidney, aided by the relentless and sharp-eyed FBI agent Lee Sawyer, will plunge straight into the violence.
I like books that surprise like this.The FBI agent investigating a plane crash has to decide why the plane really went down, who was at fault, why, and who the target was.
Also, the reader gets to know a bit more than the agent for a while since another story is also going on involving a computer genius who was employed by a company that was planning to merge with another, while his wife was an attorney representing the company in the merge.
Usually I can skim much of a book, but not this one with so much going on, so somewhat time consuming.
I felt like you could have lost a whole disc and totally not noticed.
The story kept a decent pace more the most part though so I enjoyed that.
I did have trouble keeping up with some of the extra characters though.
Idk if it was because it was audio or just because there was so many, but at the end I kept going...
There were a lot I felt.
And a few too many 'what the hell' moments.
Several moments when the main character was just plain stupid and she was not written that way at all.
:( but overall I enjoyed the book.
I could not put this book down. Awesome writer and enough suspense and almost romans peeking through. The main character could stop running earlier and go for help. There is a stubbornness in her that does not align with her otherwise assertive self. Similarly, the female lawyer main character could pick up FBI agents following her on foot through New York but missed a white van of villains following her through a small town. Slightly less credible but otherwise a gripping novel. Worth reading more from this author.
Corporate lawyer, Sydney Archer is in an important meeting with her client when she gets the phone call that her husband has been killed in an airplane crash.
Lee Sawyer (FBI) is called to the scene when a part of a bomb is found in the wing that was blown from the plane.
He thought at first the plane was downed to kill the head of the Federal Reserve who took that same flight monthly, or to kill Jason Archer who was on the manifest, but head of security for "the client" had a video of him in Seattle trading "secrets"?
I was really into this book for the first half - anxious to find out what would happen next. But I found myself near the end, just wanting to get through it. I don't know if it was the constant guessing what was going on without some payoff throughout or the increasing foul language, but I lost interest in the characters and by the end wasn't too concerned with how they ended up. So I started out thinking I'd really like it, but in the end have to say it was just ok.
The first half of this book bored me to tears. Though in all honesty it was because I have no knowledge of financial matters and in depth technology is just over my head. Part of the problem is my own brain. I have no memory for minute details so by the time I hit 300 pages, I'd already forgotten the little things that were needed to solve the co-mingled plots. However, once the action started, the story flew along and I simply couldn't turn the pages fast enough.
This is the first David Baldacci book I have read and I plan to read more. The story, characters and writing are first class and kept my attention the whole way through. It appears this is the only book with Lee Sawyer as the lead investigator or to feature Sydney Archer. Will move on to the other stand alone books.
I don't care if the plot lines were far-fetched, it was a page turner for me until the end. Escapism reading, which is what I needed right now. Many characters and twists & turns kept one guessing about who were the bad guys
