https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676237.Space_Viking
A fun read, in that old-fashioned, chest-thumping, red meat eating and martini drinking fashion.
I love a diversion into Space Opera now and again, and Space Viking is a fine example of the genre.
The only H.B. Piper I can admit to reading so far has been LORD KALVAN OF OTHERWHEN (a great alt-history type novel, the first of the PARATIME series), plus some well-executed short stories.
Space Viking wasn't extremely deep; Piper prefers the bludgeon to the rapier on some of the points he makes, but I didn't care-- there's Space Battles, civilization building, Good Guys and Bad Guys and planets in peril.
I have always enjoyed Piper's Terra Federation books and even praised Piper as one of the unsung heroes of SF, but this I had major problems with.Piper states that both Democracy and Government stemming from it are historically flawed concepts, I have no problem with that.
Piper's solution is quite frankly authoritarian to the extreme and also contradictory.
"Then your democracy is a farce,and the people only free on sufferance.
Again the death and destruction this causes Piper has no comment, obviously this falls into a form of Darwinism determinism.
This was the last major work before his suicide and quite frankly it shows.
A sentimental three stars; this was space opera without too much philosophy...Reading his other stuff (particularly Uller Uprising), I found his politics laughably simplistic and increasingly tedious.
However I recently read the assertion that this book was one of many influences on the Traveller role-playing game.
Since I'm a fan of Traveller, and of the series of books that was a major influence on the game (EC Tubb's Dumarest saga), I thought I'd check out Space Viking.There is a group of worlds in the Traveller universe called the Sword Worlds.
Then they turned around and went to other planets and sold their loot.
Now I can say I read a book that supposedly influenced Traveller.
I read The Cosmic Computer and Space Viking.The first is the better of the two, involving a man who uses a rumor of a super-computer on his home planet, once a planet-wide military base of the galactic Federation, to start a boom of reclaiming military salvage so that he can get a working hyperspace ship together so he can revitalize the planet by shipping luxury goods grown on his planet to Terra.
This secret is dealt with in a very cynical fashion (the worst part of the book, IMHO), and the story ends.Space Viking is a much more predictable story of revenge and one man going from being a dreamer, to a destroyer, to the hard-headed creator of one civilization from the ashes of the old.

We now want to go read all his other stuff.I kept asking when the book was written, since all LibraVox recordings are in the public domain, yet this book discusses hyperdrives and nuclear power and Hitler...
A lot of the political systems described in the book are very pertinent even today, which gives credence to Piper's theme that everything in history tends to repeat itself.Without being spoilery, I will just say that it took about 10 hours to listen to the whole thing and we were fully engaged right away and throughout.
Ok, so I’m a big fan of H. Beam Piper. Yes classic Sci-Fi requires a certain taste, it’s certainly not for everyone, and Piper was a bit more on the fringe of political discourse than many of his contemporaries. Space Viking does tend to exhibit Piper’s personal beliefs quite plainly, but it is so jam packed with space exploration and battles that it’s delicious.  Trask’s development as a character is realistic and interesting. Plus, I love series that span an immense amount of time in a create
Plus, I love series that span an immense amount of time in a created-place, so that you can see how it involves.
Strictly speaking Piper didn’t write the books as a series, but he did tend to write them in the same created-space, and the degradation of the Old Federation and the rise of the Sword Worlds is fascinating to me.
But I’m a sucker for space operas, and Vikings, so this book has it all.Plus, just look at the cover and tell me it doesn’t fill you with utter nerd love.
Can we all bask for a moment in the glory of that title?With Space Kings and their Space Feudalism!
And Space Amish (sort of)!
It's interesting and I think another example of how Piper (like another favourite of mine, David Drake) pulls from historic battles and whatnot.
The only problem with Piper is that his books are great, I just don't want to ruin a fun story for someone else.
This one has revenge, though—and a space ship named Nemesis.
By this point in time, colonising is out, along with the core society that ran it.
The Vikings are the new colonisers.
Interesting and interestinger.
This book starts out well, but with a lot of philosophical muttering and self justification with what amounts to genocide. In the end our hero seems to wind up more on the side of the bad guys than the good guys, in a universe where achievement equates with firepower.
I loved this military science fiction when I was a kid, the drawing on the cover of the Piper novel inspiring a lot of artistic attempts on my own part until I gave up art for study in high school.
It’s not as good as I was hoping.
It takes a bit for us to find out what is going on, but after a crazy pirate interrupts a royal wedding and makes blood enemies of several planets, we figure it out pretty quick.
It’s all about the death of civilizations, the rise of dictators, personal vengeance, and the best form of government.
There is a lot of discussion of politics and trade policy.
That’s spiced up a bit with a little piracy, looting, and manipulation.
Mostly though it just drug on and on… There were a lot of substitute curse words.
I gave up about 10% of the way in. This was bad space opera, especially for 1962. It read more like it had been serialized in a pulp magazine for a penny a word in 1942.
There’s plenty of rip-snorting adventure in Beam Piper’s SPACE VIKING: raiding, pillaging, space battles, political coups, gunfights in underground bunkers.
The only society that makes sense to Piper is the feudal-libertarian one that his hero, Lucas Trask, establishes on Tanith.
Kudos to him, anyway, for realizing the feudal tendencies within libertarianism more than four decades before political scientists (like Corey Robin) did so.Piper doesn’t seem to like women much in this novel, by the way.
Technological speculation apparently interested Piper less than political speculation, and, like many of his generation, he found it difficult to imagine a weapon more devastating than a nuclear bomb - except, perhaps, human complacency.
When Lucas Trask's wife is murdered at their wedding, he gives up his estate, the Barony of Traskon for a ship and declares himself a Space Viking.
He leads a planet, and starts to restore civilization to a planet that had fallen nearly into the stone age.Space Viking is set in a wide Galaxy long after the fall of a large Empire.
Tanith becomes the center of a small trading empire.When he becomes embroiled in a war on the civilized world of Marduk, he finds his old enemy there.This sort of thing is really from before my old time.
The evolution of their not really planned little empire was entertaining.
I also liked the story’s thoughts on governments and civilizations, centering around how all systems are corruptible and all ultimately rely on the goodwill of the governed.
Bully people too long or simply ignore them, and sooner or later, they’re going to want to do something about it.
Sure, you could then take the Space Viking approach and just start shooting the people you don’t like, but you still run the risk of enough of them being able to organize and take over.
Anyway, slow start but grows interesting and entertaining.
I listened to this novel as a Librivox free, public domain audio book. It is competently narrated by Mark Nelson. He's not in the league of the good professional audio book readers, but he's much better than some of the Librivox volunteer readers.As for the novel itself, it is a fairly typical early 1960s space opera.
Incredible. Space opera cum philosophy. Written over fifty years ago, but as relevant as today's headlines. The science is better than many contemporary SF novels, despite being written while we were still struggling to dependably orbit a man.Great pen and ink illustrations in the Gutenburg edition.Longer review to follow after i've digested this for a few weeks.A great read.
Finally, there is the idea of an intergalactic space Federation--although in the case of Space Pirates it's in the past.As for Star Wars, we have mention of the planet Hoth.
The whole setting is similar to in Star Wars as in this is after the collapse of an earlier higher civilization and now they are living with the technological detritus of that earlier civilization that the contemporary people barely understand.
The Space Pirates have the Old Federation in the same way that Star Wars has the Old Republic.
So, although this should have disappeared from our culture ages ago, it has relevance as Star Trek and Wars are also still with us.
I probably read this many years ago; it was first published in the early 1960s.
The beginning is reminiscent of early 20th century fantasy and science fiction with overblown sentimentality, admiration of royalty, and a jingoistic attitude toward war.
The ultimate revenge fantasy satisfaction is actually unexpected and a bit underwhelming.Piper even has some interesting thoughts on government (feudalism vs.
Based on Hitler and Germany!
It is disturbing the parallels between his demagogue, Hitler in Germany, and Trump in the USA.
So this is an exciting read, with some interesting (although ultimately unpersuasive) thoughts on government, personal responsibility, and how to deal with dissent.
Classic space opera with a bit of not so subtle commentary on what it takes for civilizations to rise and fall.
Following the killer into the ruins of the old Federation Trask makes his way raiding and trading and finds a new purpose in his own little bandit kingdom and begins to wonder if it can progress beyond a mere raiding base and become a civilization of its own and his quest for vengeance becomes secondary to this new passion.
But some comments are rather biting against what he considers to be mob rule "the people who enjoy civilization but don't realize what it takes to make it work and wouldn't like it if they did."
Re-reading classics from your youth is a wonderful thing; its a chance to see if the book is what you remembered and entertain the same.
As when I was younger I was enjoying this one.
While a fairly simplistic plot (a man traumatized goes out and seeks revenge and has it evolve as he learns more), Mr. Piper does have his main character develop as any character should as they learn or their timeline advances.
What I love the most with Mr. Piper's story though was looking and presenting different social/economics/political issues.
Still a solid 4 star book after about 40 years.
He frequently has conversations with his dead wife, thinking that she wants him to pursue Dunnan.Nothing gets in his way either, when faced with raiding 'civilized' worlds in order to get some information he doesn't hesitate to pound the planet with nuclear weapons until they submit to his demands.H. Beam Piper uses this book to offer some interesting discussions on governments.
The will of the people usually skews towards intelligent decisions that are better for everybody.Trask is not concerned with the morals of raiding less technologically advanced worlds for money and neither is H.
Entertaining space opera from the Silver Age of science fiction. Has aged surprisingly well, thanks to Piper’s grasp of science and especially history. Of course, it’s fairly sexist, everybody smokes (even on starships), and the political message (democracy inevitably leads to the collapse of civilization) is fairly depressing, though topical.
Classic Space OperaSpace Vikings is a story that stands the test of time. I have read this book many times since I first found H. Beam Piper in the 1980s. Space Vikings blends action and politics in to a spell binding mix.
A pirate ship named Enterprise makes watching Star Trek a bit more amusing.
A classic of old school Science Fiction.
Pretty enjoyable space opera. Not much character development, but some interesting philosophizing about different forms of government and plenty of action.
It was ok until the end. By that time I started not caring for the story any more
Didn't know what to expect. Overall quite a good read with a surprising foray into the merits of democracies and feudalism.
