https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101921.A_Place_of_Greater_Safety
What a bummer when you pick a big long novel and it turns out to be the pain in the arse this one did - not so bad that I could apply the 100 page rule but not so good that I actually wanted to pick the thing up and read the words in it.
Like action, humour and a clear understanding of what's really at stake.
As Hilary Mantel states in the author’s note, "[t]his is a novel about the French Revolution and almost all of the characters in it are real people".
I came to this extremely long novel not because I had any particular interest in the French Revolution, but because I fell in love with Mantel’s writing in Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies and wanted to read more of her work.
The one disadvantage of reading a very long book on an e-reader is the inability to easily flick back through the pages, which meant that after that first eye-glazing encounter with the character list, I didn’t consult it again.
They break the rules and admit the thing that is imagined, but is not licensed to be imagined." Thus Hilary Mantel in an illuminating article on Robespierre in the London Review of Books.
Another playful reference by Ms Mantel to her craft - and this novel has several such winks and nudges - essentially looking at the holes and gaps in history and filling them with her imagination.
Spoilers but only if you never knew the French Revolution = wholesale death and that real characters who lived 200+ years ago may be a little on the deceased side by now anyway."Louise Robert says she would write a novel...but she fears that as a character in fiction Camille would not be believed.
Camille, Mr. Dark Radiance:Danton, brutal, ugly, massive and yet strangely sexy:Robespierre, ascetic, stiff, nerveless and cold:And then the other character, the French Revolution: unstoppable history, heartbreaking because it had to happen that way.Mantel gives us the Revolution in conversations.
Having read her two Cromwell novels, I couldn't help comparing the style Mantel perfected in those to this much earlier work.
For example, the depictions of the childhoods of the three main characters reminded me of the same technique she uses to first get us engaged in and sympathetic toward Cromwell in Wolf Hall.
Only yesterday I read of the 129 bodies found in secret graves in Mexico.*My rating could be a 4.5 or 4.75, but only because I know Mantel's Cromwell novels are even better.
If I'd read this first, I would've thought she couldn't possibly have done anything better.
While A Place of Greater Safety is an acknowledged historical fiction, it is peopled with historical figures who lived the revolution, wrote its new laws and newspapers, created and were victims of its blood-lust.
Mantel uses multiple styles in her creation: writing in the third and first person; inserting occasional historic quotes; recreating those newspaper entries; entering conversations between various important persons; presenting imagined diary entries and private thoughts.
And I enjoyed the variety of the presentation also as it seemed to add some lightness to what is, after all, a heavy story.Late in the novel, Camille Desmoullins asks Robespierre:"What did we have the Revolution for?
I thought it was to free us from tyranny.
A flawed book, but a very impressive and absorbing one.Mantel traces the story of the Revolution through the experiences of Danton, Robespierre and Desmouslins, along with an extensive cast of the men and women who knew, loved, or hated them.
Camille Desmoulins is the one who really comes to life here: witty, artistic, sometimes cruel, he is painted convincingly as an aesthete avant la lettre, and a great foil for the splenetic, populist Danton, and the cautious and frighteningly logical Robespierre.The writing is deceptively simple; it sketches a few lines of dialogue here, a couple of descriptive touches there, not going in for rich portraits of Revolutionary Paris but rather outlining the salient landmarks and allowing the reader to fill in the details.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b068sjpbDescription: Hilary Mantel's gripping account of the cataclysmic events of the French Revolution seen through the eyes of three of its most important figures, Georges Danton, Camille Desmoulins and Maximilien Robespierre.French Revolution Timeline Liberty Equality FraternityExcellent dramatisation, Melissa Murray. Thanks you R4.Camille: Carl PrekoppDanton: Mark StobbartRobespierre: Sam TroughtonNarrator Lizzy WattsNarrator Paul RitterLucile Chloe PirrieGab
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b068sjpbDescription: Hilary Mantel's gripping account of the cataclysmic events of the French Revolution seen through the eyes of three of its most important figures, Georges Danton, Camille Desmoulins and Maximilien Robespierre.French Revolution Timeline Liberty Equality FraternityExcellent dramatisation, Melissa Murray. Thanks you R4.Camille: Carl PrekoppDanton: Mark StobbartRobespierre: Sam TroughtonNarrator	Lizzy WattsNarrator	Paul RitterLucile	Chloe PirrieGabrielle	Sarah ThomMirabeau	Sam DaleAdele	Alex TregearAnnette	Jessica TurnerHerault	Stephen CritchlowBrissot	David HounslowNobleman	Chris PavloDirected by Marc Beeby.4* A Place of Greater Safety4* Wolf Hall4* Bring up the BodiesWL The Mirror and the Light1* Beyond Black2* The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher
I’m giving it a rating of 3.7 stars out of 5.On the whole, it is a rigorously researched work of historical fiction describing in minute details the emotional, sexual and political lives of the three leading actors who played pivotal roles in the French Revolution (Maximilien Robespierre, Camille Desmoulins and Georges-Jacques Danton) and who were surrounded by a myriad cast of secondary characters; and the entangled and mind-boggling relations and interactions, sexual or political or otherwise, between the one and the other.In terms of crafting a spell-binding historical novel, Ms. Mantel is a talented storyteller who knows how to titillate her readers.
This novel is too long.
The author takes three principle characters - all of them elusive, ambivalent and hard for history to judge definitively - and gives them to us whole and utterly convincing at the centre of a series of the most tumultuous events in modern history.Hilary Mantel Really nails Danton, Desmoulins and most incredibly Robespierre - a man you sense was probably an enigma even to himself.
You can't fault the scholarly research that informs this novel, but Mantel is such a gifted storyteller that it is a compulsive page-turner too.
If you want to begin to understand how revolution happens, how individuals get to manipulate the mob, how rioters can be triggered to bring down a government or a monarch, this well researched and beautifully written fictionalised account of the French revolution is a good place to start.
Every word, phrase, paragraph is inspired, but my god, in the whole, it's a drag.EDIT: Halleluja.I really struggled with this (and always develop an irrational antipathy towards books that block me).
Really I should read it again but that is not going to happen until I am marooned with my kindle and have read and re-read everything else.Despite this, the building of suppressed terror and chaos - a la Stalinist Russia - is undeniable, and I still think Hilary is a rare and wonderful writer...
but this (her first, long-unpublished book) is the working out of her superb talent, rather than the flourishing of it.
This book is one of my all-time favorites, and I remain in awe of Mantel for balancing the historical and political elements with telling a darn good story.
If you don't know much about the French Revolution, you will probably be a bit confused by the plot, but honestly it doesn't even matter; you can still read the book and get caught up in the characters and in the writing.
This was the first book of Mantel's that I read, and it sparked my interest so much that I read a couple of others afterward which I liked all right, but neither compared to this as far as scope and accomplishment.
Very cool history of the French Revolution told in a fictionalized style. The insight of the author into human behavior, and the fullness she gives these vivid yet dry characters from history is amazing! Truly a great book.
This is highly recommended for history buffs. Hilary Mantel is a phenomenal writer. She made me believe she was there and saw. Good stuff.
The teacher asked the class what they wanted to get out of the class, apart from Mantel everybody wanted to make a living writing for women's magazines, she however wanted to write a big serious novel about the French revolution.Very impressive and enjoyable historical novel that runs up to the fall of Danton from the childhood of some of the leading revolutionaries and their interrelations in the years in between.
I don't remember much of it in detail, but it was big, vivid and informed a voyage through ideas, ideals and scattering dreams, a fantastic immersive reading experience.
She focuses much less on the What and much more on the Who, the Why and the How. The beheading of the queen is, um, disposed of in but two paragraphs, for example, and many times what might seem to be a major event is left undescribed, saved for the reader to learn in later dialogue and in context of how it affected the characters and the sweep of events.
Some reviewers see this additional effort as a downside requirement to enjoying the book, but I looked at it the other way: Mantel made the French Revolution and the characters so interesting, I wanted to know more - a lot more - than she could pack into an 800+ page book.
The exploration of their lives, their characters, their interactions, and their historical roles necessarily draws in dozens of other personages, most actually historical, and for the reader familiar with the events of the time the result is a satisfying window into the ambiance of those difficult years.Mantel is a skillful and engaging writer.
In developing her characters, Mantel holds up an indicting mirror to those of us who are her readers, making us examine ourselves and our own society and culture.Mantel’s book is of course highly fictionalized, with many details of place, people, and conversation that could not have been based on actual documentation.
Readers of A Place will soon discover that her daring with Cromwell was as nothing compared to her courage in dealing with the blood-drenched heavies of the French Revolution: Georges Danton, Maximilien Robespierre, Camille Desmoulins and a host of others.
Mantel’s French Revolution is a much wider canvas than her English Reformation, and it lacks a character either as central or sympathetic as her Thomas Cromwell.
In summary: a wonderful fictional rollercoaster ride through the French Revolution but a comparatively denser read (750 pp.) for Mantel fans captivated by the more uncluttered narrative line of Wolf Hall.
I walked away from this book, I think, in love with three enfants terrible of the French Revolution.
It really is true, I think, that to know someone is to love them.In someways telling the history of the French revolution is perfect using these three men.
It is like Mantel places the ID (Danton), EGO (Desmoulins), and Super-EGO (Robespierre, of course) of the French Revolution together and the story almost writes itself.Anyway, I've got way more to write, but it is damn late.
And, even knowing the end, the sharp end of history still bites.
Mantel took on a huge challenge with this, her first book, set aside for twenty years before its eventual publication.The questions she asks are: at what moment in the political revolution in France is there no going back and, for her three main characters (Danton, Desmoulins and Robespierre) 'Is there a moment when life changes decisively, where there is absolutely no return to the person you were before, or the conditions as they were.' This leads to a further question: 'how an individual can, by the force of their will, make themselves over into something or someone other'.
This book is unlike ordinary historical novels in the sense that Mantel makes it very modern and contemporary - mostly by avoiding any kind of descriptions (either of places, costumes, interiors, palaces, streets, etc), a surprising trick that helps her focusing on the characters and on the events only, and which makes them immediately universal: this story is not a walk through a wax museum, or a beautiful landscape from time past, but a study in violence, friendship, ambitions, power, bloodlust, lust, and horror, that happened in Paris two centuries ago but is also happening today, in other corners of the world.
Propagande anglaise du XVIIIe siècle
Still, I loved her humor, her crazy style of writing that no one else can get away with, and her clever way of turning historical facts into a fresh story.I hope to read this book again sometime when I am not so distracted by life - and after studying the events of the French Revolution in a little more detail.
I feel certain that this is a book, like Mantel's others, that are rich enough in content to be enjoyed more than once.
Honestly, I think it was the snails (apparently, according to the Romans, snails fed on meat are too die for).Or maybe the wine.Or maybe it was the fact that the only meat the average French person could have was bug.Okay, I'm sorry for the food digression.
I suppose I should get around to reviewing this book or eating dinner).Despite the surreal beginnings of this review, this is, to borrow a phrase, "a thumping good read", which is good considering my edition would make a good doorstop.
Who cares who loses thier head?Actually, the reader does despite all the Vive.Just the read book, okay.
The revolution that cannibalised itself!My edition had 985 pages, and I'm a slow reader, so to have come to the end of this novel in 2.5 weeks has left me feeling a bit shell-shocked.
She made me fall a little bit in love with Camille Desmoulins (who wouldn't???) and to admire both Danton and Robespierre in their own ways; and even amongst the necessary blood, gore and treachery of the revolution, I often found myself chuckling over the humour.
Some are for plot and/or character development and some for humour, and at least one or two are there just because they reminded me of Wolf Hall.
I very much enjoy Mantel's work on the whole, and a holiday in France seemed rather a good place in which to read a novel of the French Revolution.
The whole is so well written, as I knew it would be from reading some of her other books.
At times it feels as though Mantel has either completely forgotten, or completely disregarded, the rudimentary elements of both history and the like of scientific discoveries.
On the whole, Mantel has done a grand job in bringing a pivotal period of French history to the fore, but silly inconsistencies let it down.
An epic, detailed and lively tale of the French revolution - an assured and impressive debut novel, highly recommended to anyone who enjoyed the Cromwell novels.
"Georges-Jacques—study law. Law is a weapon.""He has these ideas.""And I suppose he thinks he is too young to be made to regret them,"I'm told that you shouldn't put yourself into the position with a woman where you have to be right all the time. Historical fiction is one of the most abused genres in the timeline of written composition. At its worst, we have bodice rippers and zombies, whitewashing and hyper-masculinization, tales told of all times at all places doing nothing to the fact that t
What, then, do we gain from yet another history of white men written about by a white person, if not a white man, obsessed with the time that preceded the assumptions of gender and race and sexuality had solidfied into their 19th century artificial constructions that indoctrinate us to this day?
It's a matter of the way we live our lives now."The ideas that were considered dangerous twenty years ago are now commonplaces of establishment discourse—yet people still die on the streets every winter, they still starve.Camille Desmoulins:"The King has aimed a pistol at the nation's head; he has misfired, and it is the nation's turn now."Lucile Desmoulins:"We want to be free; but oh God, the cost of it."
I read somewhere that Mantel claimed she began writing this book as a Dantonist and came out of it a Robespierrist, but I don't see that reflected in the text.
Robespierre himself is amazing (a little bit of personal bias may be coming through here, but I think you'd agree - he's as exacting as you might expect, but entirely human in a way you don't always get to see), but all of her Robespierrist characters are oddly-portrayed.
