https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311218.Charity_Girl
Charity Girl is one of Georgette Heyer's later and lesser offerings, but I still found it a fairly amusing and engaging read.
He also meets Charity (Cherry) Steane, the Bugle's sweet, destitute niece, who lives with them and is bullied and treated like a servant.
Luckily he's able to drop Cherry off at his good friend Hetta's home while he's off scouring the countryside for Steane relatives in an effort to help Cherry.I avoided reading any spoilers for this book, so it was amusing to try to figure out which lady Desford is going to end up with.
After having read such masterpieces as These Old Shades, Devil's Cub, Frederica, Cotillion, Friday's Child, and basically every single other Heyer novel (except The Corinthian, of which I also wasn't a huge fan), Charity Girl feels like a fraud.
If it had been my first ever Heyer novel I think I might have liked it.
It's well-written in classical Heyer style and there is enough going on for a newbie to like, but to a seasoned Miss like myself it falls completely flat because we all know this is just not the author at her best.
The characters were barely people, and when they were, they were terrible or irritating, with the possible exception of the hero, and that's only because he's off-stage or being perfect the whole book.
I didn't want to spend time with any of these people.
It's incredibly classist for a book about "Charity," and the characters spend most of their conversation talking about which family is better than that family, selfish feuds from twenty years ago, and "bad blood." I have no idea why the hero would care for the heroine.
These are not modern romances so you must be prepared to enjoy the spectacle of wealthy gentlemen coming to the rescue of hapless females, but Heyer usually comes through with a balanced match.The prose does bog down a little when Charity's father shows up.
The book is also jam-packed with the typical Regency slang, enough to be annoying if you were to read two or three of these books in a row.
I'm familiar with most of the slang by now, but there are still a few mysterious expressions.
I enjoyed reading Charity Girl very much but this is the first Heyer book I have read that slogged through the middle before bringing me to a delightful conclusion.
I am a true fan of Georgette Heyer's clean romances and even though this is not her best offering, I still crossed the finish line with a smile!More a comedy of manners than a romance, Charity Girl has a buffet of regency slang terms that kept me in good humor throughout the entire narrative.
That said, many things crossed my mind while I was reading this book.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is in the mood to read a regency romp.
1.5I'll just leave this as an explanation for myself.
I cannot believe the same person wrote The Grand Sophy wrote this.
You never get the feeling of who should be together.
One of the positive things in this story is the hero himself.
He is rarely with the heroine since he is trying to solve Cherry's problem so that could be the reason.
I neither liked snobbish Henrietta, nor Cherry (one of the dumbest characters I've come across in fiction).
Except Desford.I admit that the beginning of the story is pretty good and funny so there's that.
After rereading The Foundling & Cousin Kate & having an improved opinion of both, I did hope my assessment of Charity Girl would improve.
I didn't expect to like this novel, mind, but hoped to find it an average read.
Charity Girl is still terrible & owes a lot to The Foundling & Sprig Muslim - both far better books.
Reading Koestler's biography it sounds like GH wasn't well when she wrote this & genuinely thought she had written a good book.
When I first read it I thought it was a typo.
Like Sprigged Muslin, which has GH's wit and carefully crafted characters but little romance, this story involved the hero, a viscount and heir to a title, becoming entangled with a secondary character, the charity girl of the title, who is not his love interest.
He spends much of his time apart from the one with whom he belongs in his effort to help the young girl who was cursed with a louse of a father who's absconded to the continent years ago and is presumed dead.
It's a well-crafted story but, like Sprigged Muslin, isn't much of a romance.
At least with Sprigged Muslin, the secondary character is very funny while stealing the show.
'The Foundling', but it didn't bother me because I found here engaging characters (Simon was like some splendid heroes from her other romances, Lady and Lord Wroxton had an interesting own story I am sure) and so beloved Heyer's language/dialogues.In my opinion, this book had also something important to tell.
But they were slaves of their class.So, because it was good written (with a deeper level), pure Heyer and I have a nice time - I am giving it 4 stars.But I have to admit it hadn't a spark.
This spark which made some of Heyer's stories simply marvelous, genial.
The relationship between the H and his father and brother is quite lovely.
Charity's father Mr. Steane is a very good character, alarming and funny.
And there is a beautiful quote toward the beginning of the book about the H's father, who is afflicted by gout and very testy:"I am concerned for you, Mama, far more than I am for him!
And we still love one another, Ashley."Upon reading that quote, many many years ago, it became a goal of mine to have someone whose youth I could remember, and who would remember mine, when we were both old.
Not one of the more successful Heyers, this starts out with the introduction of a billion characters we never meet again, and then involves a lot of travelling in hunt of people, a too-large late appearance of a Falstaff, and very little chance to see the main couple even in the same room.
There's not even a powerful trigger for the change of heart, since the couple appear to see each other regularly, and aren't at any real emotional extremis during the story.Reread notes: liked this more on this re-read, although my note above still stands.
Heyer uses them a lot in all her regencies, but this one felt like no character could say anything without ladening on some period colour.
Charity Girl definitely isn't the best Heyer novel I've read.
That rather reduces its charms for me, having already read Sprig Muslin, and given that the heroines are either not particularly engaging, or we don't see enough of them.I think I'd have enjoyed it more if I hadn't already read Sprig Muslin, but it's a mild one really by Heyer's standards.
I wouldn't read it for a first Heyer novel, definitely (go for The Talisman Ring, which I adore!), or even if you're only a casual fan.It's well-written, of course, else I'd give it only two stars.
I can't bear to do that with something by Heyer, though.
My 30th Georgette HeyerWhen Viscount Ashley Desford finds Cherry Steane running away from a life of drudgery with her uncaring relatives, he is determined to escort her to her grandfather in London.
But upon arriving to an empty house, Desford places the girl in the care of Henrietta Silverdale, his neighbour and childhood friend.The book had a promising start.
I liked both Desford and Henrietta, but the search for Cherry's grandfather and the appearance of her father were dull events.
Cherry and Nethercott's relationship was hammed in so as to make for a perfectly wrapped up ending, but I needed more time with the main couple.
Like that time I picked up an Orson Scott Card novel with the intention of giving science fiction a try.
In the mean time, there is a lot of romantic tension because they both like each other and have lots of chemistry, but they are afraid or can't get over their pride, and so you get a glance here or a touch there, and maybe one or two small kisses.
But then I didn't want him to be with the rescued heroine, either, because Heyer didn't build any romantic tension between those two characters, either.
Some misguided sense of honor, most likely- , who ends up realizing he has been in love with his best friend –who is always happy to be burdened with the runaway in question and take care of her while the hero sorts out the girl’s mess- all along.
The love story between Deford and Henrietta also fell much to short, to the point where it made very little sense to me that in the end both proclaimed they had loved each other all along.To make things worse, this book featured some of the worst names I have yet come across (and having read almost all of Heyers books by now, that is saying something): Lady Sophronia Emborough, Charity “Cherry” Steane, Hephzibah Cardle, and Lucasta, Oenone, Perenna, and Dianeme Bugle.
In more weird mid-century marketing news (did they think women only read books about women, or could Heyer not come up with a cute double meaning title?), the real protagonist of Charity Girl is not the C.G. Cherry, who clearly annoyed Ms. Heyer before she'd been writing about her for thirty seconds, but instead the sensible but not un-dashing Viscount Desford.
Large quantities of silly Regency slang ("Turkish treatment" "mifty" and more!) make this a fun read, even though the conclusion is apparent half-a-page in.
Heyer may be uneven, but there's no one else to match her style.
I wish she came in a format to appeal to middle-schoolers because the friendliness of these love stories is so nice, non-threatening and bizarrely more realistic than most current teeny love fare.
Ashley Carrington, Viscount Desford, stumbles across Miss Charity "Cherry" Steane on his way back to London.
After discovering that Cherry's grandpa is not at home, he takes her to his long-time bff, Henrietta "Hetta" Silverdale.
Cue some cross-country adventures, the blackmailing con man father, and a pinch of romance!1.
This was tolerable but not my particular cup of tea.
It's very much  Sprig Muslin but without the idyll in the countryside.
Everyone is more isolated and it feels a bit more of a character study.
2. Cherry's papa was so goddamned slimy that I skimmed his chapters because UGH.
3. The major romance was underbaked.
A nice romance from Georgette Heyer, with what some might consider as rather nondescript characters and a rather bland plot.
For sure, the plot is rather simple with few twists and turns.
And the characters are not completely extraordinary or outrageous.
But that's part of the charm of that specific book.
A story and characters to which everyone can easily relateI enjoyed the read which felt shorter than other of her books and didn't deserve more pages.
Not the bundle of fun that some of her other romances are but not as bad as I was lead to believe by reading other reviews.
This a late novel, featuring one of Heyer's plain but kind heroines who has long been in love with the hero, as a younger woman comes along. It reads to me like it was phoned in.Really only for completists, or for the Heyer fan who loves everything she did, without reserve.
Read this a few years ago, it was hard to get through from what I remember. The romance was a bit confusing and the jargon too. I think it was funny though. Seeing reviews for Heyers other books, I see this wasnt her best so Ill have to give her a chance.
This one...this one I did not love.
And there were probably several reasons for that, namely that Richard Armitage did not narrate it.
Also, that it was much longer than the others I've read thus far.
And it was not a romance.
I honestly knew who the intended love interest for Desford was from the beginning, but they've been lifelong friends and he spends so little time in her company for much of the book that I wasn't sure it would actually come to pass.
I'm glad I listened to the others first or this novel surely would have put me off them.
I've read several Georgette Heyer novels, and I enjoy them usually for the one or two scenes that are written just perfectly--in this book, it is the section with Wilfred Steane. The rest can be somewhat boring. I am getting tired of the Regency slang, too--it is so frequent as to be overpowering, with every sentence something like, "Fustian! You rudesby! Don't be a slow-top, be a wit-cracker." It becomes exhausting to read.
A refreshing break from heavier reading, Heyer never fails to satisfy. I wish that the two main love interests would have spent more time together engaging in the banter for which the author is famous, but there were plenty of other interesting characters and a very diverting plot.
3.5 starsAshley Carrington, Viscount Desford has no intentions of marrying anyone just to please his father, let alone his childhood best friend Miss Henrietta Silverdale.
That doesn't mean he wants his Hetta to marry just any prosy old bore that comes along, like Cary Nethercott.
The plot doesn't pick up until Des rescues Cherry.
When Des is on the road searching for Cherry's grandfather or joking with Henrietta, the story is a lot of fun.
Another of Heyer's older ladies, Henrietta has management of her brother's estate until her brother comes of age so she's intelligent and capable.
Delightful as ever!
This seemed so familiar as I read it that I realized I had, in fact, read it previously. This is one of the last (or perhaps the last) Heyer romances I had left to read and is commonly thought to be one of her weakest. It isn’t awesome, true, but it isn’t bad either — and is much, much better than so many contemporary regencies.
So this would be a low three stars for me or maybe even a 2.5 star book.The story centers on the handsome & very eligible Viscount Desford who comes across "Cherry" (real name Charity) who is living on her aunt's charity because she has no other family member willing to take responsibility for her.
When payment for her room and board stopped coming to the school, Charity is forced to go live with whatever extended family member will take her in, which lands her with her maternal aunt.
Desford meets Cherry when he is at a ball hosted by her aunt.
Charity Girl is an enjoyable Regency Romance by Georgette Heyer.
Both gentlemen take the "damsels" to their old-maid best friends to watch after.
Both gentlemen end up with the "old maids" friends.
But the books are different in many ways.Viscount Desford is our hero who rescues the young Charity, "Cherry." Cherry is running away from her aunt's house.
But when the girl's grandfather isn't home...Desford delivers the girl to the care of Miss Henrietta Silverdale and her mother, Lady Silverdale.
Desford is off on his own to try to track down this grandfather.
Enjoyable enough.© Becky Laney of Becky's Book Reviews
This is the first Heyer novel that I've read quickly not because I loved it, but because I kept thinking, "this can't be it, there has to be more."Part of the reason it was simply no good was that too much was grabbed from other Heyer novels - novels that did it better.A young girl runs away from home!
The hero regrets it because she is continually running away from HIM as he tries to save her.
In Charity Girl she is running away from being treated as a servant, and the hero starts regretting it because it's kind of a pain?
In Charity Girl it kind of resulted in...
Whereas in The Masqueraders, this resulted in some really, truly hilarious dialogue, in Charity Girl it fell flat.
I've always loved Georgette Heyer and I picked up this book from the library recently on a day I just needed something light and sweet, though I think this might be the only Georgette Heyer my library has, since I'm sure I've read this twice before.
One reads a Georgette Heyer for the experince rather than the story.
Though as light and sweet as I needed it to be, this is not one of Heyer's best books, and slight even for her.
