https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7501962-bonhoeffer
He was murdered about 3 weeks before Hitler took his own life more than likely having been murdered on the orders of the mad man himself.Some will not be as interested in the theological insights that can be found here but it was a major part of what I love(ed) about the book.
Having thought this the situation that met him when he returned home from his short visit to America was doubly troubling for him.I was not aware before I read this book of Bonhoeffer's involvement with the long running conspiracy to kill Hitler.
For as much as Bonhoeffer sometimes seemed an arrogant fussbudget, at least when he was younger, I’m glad he existed, with his confidence in the Christian god, and his dedication to following his sense of what is right (doing what he felt was God’s will, for example, despite its being a ‘sin’).
And just like I hoped against all reason and reality that Bonhoeffer wouldn’t die, I hoped to be reassured that there were good Germans out and about in the ’40’s.
Biography is a good way to experience history from a certain perspective, and I found this book illuminating in its picture of an age.
I would agree with that statement.The book is dense in its information about Germany, the key figures in German politics after World War I, the religious leaders of the time, and in theological beliefs of the German church.
I hope to read it again so that I might gain even more insight into the man and his times.The evolution and development of Bonhoeffer's faith and theology is fascinating.
His faithfulness in living the Christian life as he saw it, his productivity, intelligence, and internal fortitude are only matched by his resolve to see Hitler removed from power.
And then there's the big problem with the book: despite the fact that almost everyone in Germany refused to take a stand as firm as Bonhoeffer's, Metaxas is unwilling to consider that anyone then alive wasn't either a black-hatted varmant or a white-hatted hero.
Once Hitler takes the stage, the book becomes a morality-tale rather than a biography.
*Real* Christians never supported Hitler, and Bonhoeffer can do no wrong- but even *he* admitted that he rubbed people the wrong way and had a knack for making enemies.
True, true, Metaxas admits, Bonhoeffer could get a bit too high-brow in the pulpit.
Yesterday, I finished reading "Bonhoeffer: Pastor, Martyr, Prophet, Spy" by Eric Metaxas.
Bonhoeffer was a pastor in Germany, prior to and during World War II.
And as Hitler destroyed the Germany Bonhoeffer loved, Bonhoeffer spoke against Hitler.
He spoke and acted in defense of a biblically-based Church.
He spoke and acted against the heretical church of the Third Reich.
Are you so in love with the Word of God that you will stand against the popular, acceptable claims as to what it means.
I look forward to meeting Pastor Bonhoeffer when God calls me home.
Thank you Eric Metaxas for writing this book.
Bonhoeffer and The Fuhrer Principle:Dietrich returned to Berlin determined to "make known the suffering of the negroes." Also, Bonhoeffer around this time (1931-1932) experienced a dramatic shift (Metaxis calls this "the Great Change") in his realization of what it meant to live "the life of a servant of Jesus Christ and belong to the Church." However, he also encountered a Germany that was undergoing great changes of its own.I'm going to steer away from the word (prophetic) that the author uses to describe Bonhoeffer's reflection on "
Bonhoeffer, Niemoller and Karl Barth were among the pastors who decided that the adoption of the Aryan Paragraph was incompatible with the church of Jesus Christ.
When it became clear that Hitler had widespread political support and would not fail on his own merit - something many influential people in Germany wrongly supposed would happen - Bonhoeffer joined the conspiracy lead by Admiral Canaris of the Abwehr and had no difficulty seeing that it was his duty as a Christian to support Canaris' plans for the assassination of Hitler and the violent overthrow of the Third Reich.
But more than that, Metaxas is convinced that Bonhoeffer made important, even groundbreaking, contributions to protestant theology.
He gave everything for principle during WWII. The Nazis murdered him while his former fellow Lutherans, the German nationla established church, adopted Nazi liturgy and caved. Bonhoeffer and others founded an alternative denomination that was opposed to national socialism. A great lesson for today's moral relativists in the USA.
Close relatives occupied high positions in the government, including the military.He had a real talent for music, but he chose to be a theologian and a pastor of the Lutheran church where he belonged.
In prison later, a plan was hatched for his escape and flight to another country but upon learning that such would further endanger some friends and relatives, he chose to remain behind bars.
I will be honest it scares me to see the many positive reviews of this book, as it contains numerous historical errors, not to mention it grossly oversimplifies Bonhoeffer's theology.
But of greater concern than these factual errors and the misspelling of German concentration camps (both Buchenwald and Dachau are spelled incorrectly) is Metaxas's misrepresentation of Bonhoeffer's theology as akin to the beliefs of contemporary American evangelicals.
Remaking Bonhoeffer as a Christian conservative requires cherry picking from his writings, not to mention rewriting German history.
Similarly Metaxas's depiction of the ecumenical movement in which Bonhoeffer was intensely involved ignores several defining features.
His dramatic death has served to make him a semi-legendary figure in some circles, though his name isn't a household word to the general public; but even in the circles where his name is recognized, it's a fair assumption that many more people know of him vaguely by hearsay than have actually read his own writings or studied his life in much detail.
As a history major, I went into the book with a general knowledge of the Nazi regime and the war, and I had some basic prior information about Bonhoeffer's life and thought; but I encountered much significant information here that I didn't previously know.
He's certainly a good writer who did his homework (more on that in a moment), but I've read some Bonhoeffer—and he just didn't quite speak the language of evangelical Protestantism like Metaxas seems to assume.Even within the book there are hints that Bonhoeffer probably shouldn't be claimed as an evangelical patron saint, the guy who did, we're sure, what we evangelicals would have done in the same Hitlerian circumstances.
This seems very important to ferret out, but Metaxas leaves it unclear.Yes, Bonhoeffer said and did some evangelical things, and I surely hope he was regenerated.
But Eric Metaxas pulls way back from the start of World War II, even back before World War I and sets us gently down in the highly cultured, highly educated world of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's admirable family.
If you're interested in the question of how Hitler happened, this book is wonderful, but it doesn't end there.Book #2: What is true Christianity?This is another huge topic, and it's explored question by question throughout Bonhoeffer's extraordinary life.
Like the subject's "Letters and Papers from Prison", I found myself not wanting to turn pages because I knew they would bring me to the end of his story.
Bonhoeffer is one of those rare men whose close following of Christ led him to very difficult places.
Yet he went, with boldness and even joy at times, knowing that following God's call was the most important thing.
His story personally challenges me through his combination of method and emotion, meditation and solitude with strong standard and firmly held theology.
Yet he embraced both, clearly stating and boldly living the things he taught.
They're not Bonhoeffer's problems though; they're the author's.Let me start with the easiest.
There's absolutely no questioning of Bonhoeffer here: everything he does is right and true and good.
And maybe again it's my ignorance speaking -- perhaps Maria and Bonhoeffer's love was the solid gold deal -- but some evidence of this would be reassuring.Third, there's a tone of smugness permeating this book.
Ultimately, the book made me quite interested in Bonhoeffer.
I just wish I could shake the feeling that Metaxas is somehow using Bonhoeffer to his own ends.
~ But what of the loving and tolerant Bonhoeffer family and his "liberal" upbringing - why cannot that have contributed to his moral strength?
(Wolfe concludes: "Bonhoeffer may have been convinced that God was telling him what to do, but I am not convinced.") I think I'd also conclude that for me his greatness does not necessarily prove his rightness, and his faith does not explain his courage.
I'm not the only one, I'm sure: Metaxas explicitly calls out the postwar "death of God" theologians who misappropriated Bonhoeffer, and rues how DB's "religionless Christianity" has been misunderstood.
That said, I enjoyed it and may spend more time with it once I'm not quite as busy as I am now.
This paragraph from the review in Books and Culture seems particularly apt:"What will be the impact of this heroic tale on American evangelicals?
Haynes insightfully warns us that people tend to unreflectively associate themselves with Bonhoeffer and draw parallels between their perceived enemies and Nazi Germany.
Like the church in Bonhoeffer's Germany, evangelicals need to seek renewal through truth-telling, accountability, education of the young, and Scripture."
As Hitler cemented his position of leadership, the Bonhoeffers were vocal opponents of the changes sweeping across Germany.Bonhoeffer was a leading proponent of the Confessing Church, founded in opposition to the Reichskirche represented by the Deutsche Christians.
His brilliance as a theologian brought him to England and America where he developed ties which would later become outlets to the world for Bonhoeffer's revelation of Hitler's atrocities against the disabled, his political opponents and the Jewish populations of Germany and all of Europe.From academic theologian, Bonhoeffer transformed to a committed pastor, ministering to those who found themselves without a voice as the Nazi juggernaut began to crush every opponent following the outbreak of war in 1939.
I am reading "The Storm of War" now, and it is fascinating to see the military issues set in contrast to this much more personal view of history in Germany at the time.
Or not do?Dietrich Bonhoeffer, as the author has aptly written in the title of his book, was indeed a "prophet".
I'll update the review when I do.Some fascinating things about the Bonhoeffer family:Christel Bonhoeffer, Dietrich's older sister, married Hans von Dohnanyi.
Karl and Dietrich were executed by the Nazis in WWII.
Of their 4 sons-in-laws, two were executed by the Nazis in WWII.
I think this was a very good biography.
Metaxas did a good job pulling Bonhoeffer out of the boxes that he is often put into.
On the whole, if you have the money I would suggest that you buy and read Ferdinand Schlingensiepen's biography "Dietrich Bonhoeffer 1906-1945" My review http://bookwi.se/1906-1945/ or Charles Marsh's biography Strange Glory http://bookwi.se/strange-glory-a-life...The problem with that biography is that it is expensive.
I got it on a one day sale and it is way better than Metaxas biography.
Metaxas is a decent writer and he has written a much needed popular biography of Bonhoeffer.
He's a theologian well-respected by Christianity's more intellectual set, was a principled man who stood up to Hitler's Third Reich, and yet represents for me a major theological conundrum: how a man of God involved in a plot to assassinate one of the most evil men who ever lived could not only fail, but be captured and executed by the Gestapo mere weeks before the war's end.Eric Metaxas's Bonhoeffer: Pastor, Martyr, Prophet, Spy tells the story of Bonhoeffer's life in great detail, from childhood to death.
A fresh take on a largely unknown backstory of WWII Germany that involved Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
If you are generally interested in micro-history of largely unknown but fascinating people or events, like I am, or are a WWII buff etc.
One of the tragedies of WWII driven home by this story, in those waning months when it was clear that Germany would lose, is the level of pure evil that it took to murder so many people just days before the camps were liberated.
I’ve also read Metaxas’ biography on Wilberforce, an abolitionist from England in the early 19th century, also very well written.
Likewise, he sometimes tells you why Bonhoeffer performed a given action, but in reality there is scholarly debate over the issue (though to be fair, this is goes back to one of the strengths...the book is easy to read precisely because Metaxas doesn't get bogged down in these nuances).The author's language can get a little dramatic (even incendiary) at times.
Apparently, it's an attempt by the author to reinterpret or ignore some of the most significant parts of Bonhoeffer's life in order to portray him as a conservative, Evangelical guide for modern day American culture wars.
This book is definitely a conservative interpretation of Bonhoeffer's life, and the author puts that spin on things.
I give the man Bonhoeffer 5 stars. I know the rating system is for the book, but without the man, again, we would have no book. Jew,Gentile and Christian alike should all take time out for this courageous and prophetic person, esp.in these times.From this book one can learn how to Be. Bonhoeffer used everything that was given him in his life to the betterment of all.
It seems as though this could have been explored more, though perhaps the influence wasn't as great as one would imagine.Without knowing much about Boenhoeffer's participation in the plot to assassinate Hitler I was a bit put off by Metaxas's claim that Boenhoeffer was actually a "spy." But it is very clear that he was that and more.
His role in the assassination plot does not seem to have been great, but he did have a significant role in the resistance and as a spy working for his fellow conspirators.
Metaxas goes to great lengths to understand and articulate why Boenhoeffer decided to work in the plot to kill Hitler.
Bonhoeffer while starting down this road had a powerful change of direction and poured his life and heart into knowing the incarnate Christ and rightfully positioning The Church.Veiled Politics - Metaxas paints Hitler as an incredible deceiver as the world has never known.
The German church married itself to the Third Reich and sold its soul to the devil.
Many rationalized Hitlers actions and justified them against scriptural teaching.The Pastor - I was moved by how Bonhoeffer, a man of incredible intellect, heritage, and means gave himself to Christ and others.
But for an open-minded and critical history nerd who just wants to read a decent bio of Bonhoeffer that tells his story and explains his theology and politics in layman's terms - or, really, for anyone who wants to read a biography untainted by the author's personal beliefs and prejudices - this book is not only a major failure but also a little bit insidious.
Unfortunately, all Metaxas's book does is stroke right-wing evangelical egos.
Barnett has written an excellent critical review of Bonhoeffer which you can (and should) read here.
This is a brilliantly written biography of a true Christian hero, martyr, and saint--if Lutherans canonized saints, Dietrich Bonhoeffer would be among the first, although he would deny that he deserved it.
Metaxas builds on other biographies of Bonhoeffer and had access to sources and letters previously unavailable.
(Metaxas wrote the biography of William Wilberforce that is the "companion book" to the movie Amazing Grace.) This book is has wit, insight, history, theology, and thought-provoking reading for any person of faith.
He notes that Jesus says: “Let your light so shine before men.” He says that “any attack on the order of the Church from without [i.e., the Nazi party] means an attack on the Body of Christ itself.” And he called on Christians to “remain in the world to engage in frontal assault on it,” and for each Christian to “live the life of his secular calling in order to show himself as a stranger in this world all the more.” This was intended to follow the example of Luther, whose actions, he noted, were “a radical criticism and protest against the secularization of Christianity.”I mention Bonhoeffer’s advocacy of resistance because it is a fair point to be considered below.I read the central argument of this book is as follows: If sole (political) authority comes from the people, then because Hitler was popularly elected, the German people did not appear to be remiss in following his policies.
well, you know.) And more than missing a lot, I'm worried I'm going to misquote, or that I misremembered something, and I'll look like an idiot here when my wife (who also read the book) reads the review.So, even though I learned a TON, fear is holding me back in this review.It seems that both the Right and Left want to claim Bonhoeffer (both theologically and politically.) I'm reading him as if he was a Lutheran with a Christocentric hermeneutic, but I imagine my Baptist incarnation would have read him as having a Historical, Literal, Grammatical hermeneutic.
