https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/611582.Crusade_Against_the_Grail
Rahn also makes assertions about the Cathars with little evidence to back it up.
He also makes huge jumps in logic between myths and peoples that I find very hard to swallow such as linking the Argonauts and the Golden Fleece to the Cathars and their Grail, literally, not figuratively.In the end, while Rahn tells the reader much about the world of the Cathars in Southern France, he tells us more about his world and himself.
While I agree that the Inquisition is evil, I have a hard time seeing the Cathars as a pure, perfect people in the way Rahn presents them.
If you already believe this, or want to believe, Rahn’s book will add fuel to your fire (an unhappy metaphor when speaking of Cathar!), but if you are inclined to skepticism, as this reader surely is, you might enjoy some of Rahn’s flights of fancy, but you will likely leave his account unconvinced and confused by the undisciplined way in which he presents “evidence.” Oh well, Rahn, who spent exploring caves in the Pyrenees looking for the grail, was supposedly the inspiration for Indiana Jones, so that alone is something of a cultural contribution.
While I enjoyed Rahn's speculations—reminiscent, methodologically speaking, of Robert Graves' mythopoetic discourses—about possible Greek, Phocian, and Phoenician influences on the grail legends of Occitania, his account of the familiar story of the Albigensian Crusades was incredibly tedious, and offered little to distinguish it beyond an ill-informed notion of the troubadours as celibate ascetics and a curious enthusiasm for Catharism as a belief system.
His strange enthusiasms aside, Rahn's tendency to offer example after tenuously-relevant example to illustrate points of relatively minor importance to the book's subject give it a meandering and capricious quality.
Libro extraordinario. Un análisis deslumbrante de la civilización occitana, el nacimiento del amor cortés y el movimiento trovadoresco, Los cátaros y la Corte de amor y sus damas como Esclarmonde de Foix y el Parsifal de Wolfram von Schembach que había recibido la cultura occitana a través de "Guyot de Provins" que influyó sobre Wagner y que anteriormente cómo todo ello representa un precedente del renacimiento casi dos siglos antes. Un libro de cabecera que releo de continuo
Дуже старий твір про переслідування катарів, ймовірну історію Святого Грааля. Автор аналізує і цитує твори раннього середньовіччя. Цікаво для тих, хто у цій темі.
This is primarily a history of the Cathars and the Troubadour movement (but not the Templars, despite the subtitle of this version), as well as the Occitan civilisation, and detailing the Cathar beliefs, and their destruction in the Albigensian Crusade (as well as some choice comments on the Inquisition - Rahn was apparently strongly anti-Catholic).
However, Rahn also speculates that they are the keepers of the/a Grail (maybe a collection of knowledge?), and that Montségur, their final stronghold, was the Grail castle described in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival.
Infinitely more worthwhile to read than the Graddon biography of the author!
Overall I enjoyed this book and found it interesting. Despite the title mentioning the Templars in the title, there was little about the Templars in the book. I expected the author to tie them in more. There is a lot of speculation, and much of the reading is tedious. Many people and places that are hard to keep track off. Unless you are familiar with the places, the troubadours, etc. I have started to read it a second time. Still, it is a worthwhile read.
Otto Rahn was a good scholar for his time. I think many of his conclusions came from what he wanted to find and the pressure he was getting from his sponsors (Himmler's SS). This book is Rahn's research into the Holy Grail mythos. It is a great work for the grail scholar, but his conclusions are jaded. I would recommend it as a great source for grail material, just be sure to do your own analysis.
I was reading this book as filler while my then-girlfriend got her boob job reworked.There is a lot of in-depth Medieval history going on in the book, and it is tiresome.'Nuff said. The boobs turned out well, I just didn't ever get to see them much. Thumbs up for historical perspective on the Cathari, though!
A more difficult read than I expected. My eyes tended to glaze over during the clearly non-cathar chapters. Recommend reading with a smart phone or computer nearby to research anything you may not know...
Astonishing and interesting scholoarship whose only failing is the near seamless incorporation of secondary sources, which does much to cloud the authorial voice. A provocative and engaging read.
Had to return to library before I was done reading it.
