https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419513.Jewels
Lovely read! exciting,wonderful and an enjoyable storyline that takes place during WWII..pain,sadness,joy,love and laughter..well written (paperback!)
سری کتاب های دانیل استیل و سیدنی شلدون رو در دوران نوجوانی خونده ام....اگه اون موقع بود به همشون 5 میدادم ..اما حالا فکر میکنم 1 هم زیاده براشون!!!!
Lovely read! exciting,wonderful and an enjoyable storyline that takes place during WWII...pain,sadness,joy,love and laughter..well written (paperback!)
I liked this book just as much as I did years ago.
The pace of the story-telling in the last quarter of the book still bugs me, however.
It feels rushed.You could look at the change of pace as a metaphor for how Sarah looses touch with her children, while still being part of their lives (that's just what happens when kids become adults) --- And I know this probably sounds presumptious considered the genre in which this book falls.
That being said, I really like this book, despite it falling into a genre of which I'm usually not a big fan.
Jewels, Danielle Steelعنوان: عشق و جواهر؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: گلرخ مهبد؛ تهران، نشر فاخته، 1372، در 552 ص؛عنوان: عشق و جواهر؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: گلرخ مهبد؛ تهران، نشر جانان، 1376، در 552 ص، شابک: 9649144153؛عنوان: جواهر؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: هادی عادلپور؛ تهران، رفعت، 1378، در 485 ص، شابک: 9649076387؛
i know that DS has some cheesy books but this was one that I really liked. It's a well written story that kept my interest and spanded such a long period of time with so many happenings.easy, simple read.
jewels is a story of a woman, of an elite family, of life struggle, and finding love amidst it all. a good read! and while you're at it, read all the other books of danielle steele too! she has a lot of great books written...the promise, fine things, full circle, crossings, wanderlust, secrets, changes, thurston house, summer's end, remembrance, to love again, passion's promise, and many more!
Who doesn’t like romances and when you need so light, refreshing read , these books are the best medicine.You will love Sarah Whitfield for her innocence initially and for her strength and determination in the later part of the book.It's a family saga as much as it is Sarah's story.
This is one of those books that I want to write so much about, praise it but yet find it hard to do it convincingly enough.
Even though it’s a romance it is a page turner all through.
Perfect book for leisurely reading.
I hadn't read anything this trashy since my elementary school days of reading V.C. Andrews. In retrospect, it has always seemed somewhat strange that I was reading books about incest and throbbing members at such a young age. Now I completely understand. These types of books seem to be written for readers who like to buy their books at the supermarket aka those who have the reading capability of ten-year-olds. And that's cool. This was perfect house-boating entertainment.
Fast forward several years and on my blog reader pops up this post about Danielle Steel and her work she does and the foundation she started after her son committed suicide in 1997 after a long battle with bipolar disorder.
It was different from the Steel novels I remember reading, but there was definitely plenty of the drama and scandal.
What’s scary is they probably are – gotta love humanity.Anyway, while I did enjoy the story, I don’t think I’ll pick up another Danielle Steel any time soon.
Perhaps other readers who like contemporary romance fiction that follows the life of one woman from birth to death would give this story a higher rating.
It's a story of love and loss, title and privilege, glittering jewelry and decorator clothes.
To her surprise she finds the love of her life in England--the Duke of Whitfield.
World War II breaks into their life together, and that is quite interesting (although I've read better books about the impact of that war on people).
Regular married life, even glittering high society life, ought to be more interesting than this was.
At some point (usually the end) someone in a Danielle Steel novel will Find The Courage To Love Again.
In 'Jewels', however, Steel's heroine finds it in the first 50 pages, which leaves room for a few narrative surprises; a rarity in Steel's work.
This sustains the novel for hundreds of pages, but you can almost sense the point when Steel loses interest in her story.
And, it's unfortunate that it happens when the saga shifts to the second generation and the heroine's libidinous, ungrateful children begin complicating her life.
Years go by quickly, love affairs, bad marriages, and run on sentences pile up.
This story will drag you into it in the first few pages. Danielle steel really knows how to grab your attention.I recommend this story for everyone who enjoys novels.
Absolutely LOVE this book. I love books that span the various era's and this one nailed it for me. I've read and re-read this book many times over.
This is one of my favorite Danielle Steel books. Deals with WWII and a strong love between this couple. Good romance.
One of the best book I have read to-date, full of romance and adventure.Absolutely lovely.... :)
Easy read, no real plot, tons of name and place dropping. Typical DS, but perhaps one of her better ones.
Ich habe die Verfilmung angeschaut:Danielle Steel ist eine Autorin, die man nur bewundern kann.Obwohl ihr Debut-Roman gleich ein grosser Erfolg war, musste sie sich später nach einem Flop wieder zurück ins Geschäft kämpfen.
Dort lernt sie den Herzog von Whitfield kennen, der ihr den Hof macht.Nach dem Krieg gründet das Ehepaar ein erfolgreiches Juweliergeschäft.
Die Kinder geraten ausser Rand und Band und drohen, das Unternehmen zu ruinieren.Diese Verfilmung hat 2 Golden Globes gewonnen und ist hervorragend ausgestattet.
This was one of my favorite Danielle Steel books.
Sarah Whitfield's when on a trip to Europe with her parents after her first divorce.
Once in Europe she met William, Duke of Whitfield.
This was a really good book that I read along time ago.
Sarah and William had five kids after he came home from the ward she begin buying jewels from the towns people and before long she had enough to open up her own shop.
This was a really good book that I have read more than once over the years.
I stopped two-thirds of the way through this one, my first Danielle Steele. I picked it up because I've often been asked if my books were similar. No, they aren't, other than they're both within the wide romance genre. During the first half, I enjoyed the characters enough to keep going through the shifting POV and repetition, where I often skimmed. By now, I've lost interest. It's too much overview, not enough depth, and the characters are losing what charm they did have. Maybe this isn't the one I should have grabbed to try first?
One of my all-time Danielle Steel favourites, which is why I've actually bought it on Kindle instead of just borrowing them from the library like I normally do. Girl meets bad boy. Bad boy hurts girl. Girl meets love of her life, crazy, crazy love. Enter war. War separates them- and that's just the beginning. So many of Danielle Steel's books just run into each other, barely different, but then once in a while you meet characters that stick in your mind for a long time- this book is that for me.
It was a pretty good story to begin with and then turned to absolute rubbish. I ended up not even finishing it because it was way too crude and depressing. If families really have a chance of turning out like this... I think I will stop now with children. I don't plan on ever reading Danielle Steel again.
Im a sucker for her romance novels. This one so far is my favorite.
If the Royalty of England were on the Jerry Springer Show it would look something like this book. And to think that my Nanny recommended this book to me!
Probably my favorite book, I've read it over and over. If you like books that cover a span of many years, I would recommend this one.
Ook weer een mooi boek waar een miniserie van gemaakt is later.
My favorite book of Danielle Steel. I love a good saga.
Not what I expected.
Love rereading this book.
JEWELS BY DANIELLE STEEL is the first and only book of this authors I have read.
My mom insisted I read this one as I am a fan of Historical Fiction, so I did and loved it!
Sarah, literally forced to go to Europe with her parents, finds William, first a friend then her lifelong soulmate.
We see Sarah fall hopelessly in love with William, marry move to Europe and endure the second world war and beyond.
We get to experience the birth of Sarah's children Spanning the decades I fell in love with Sarah, William & Danielle Steel.
