https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287380.Kare_Kano
Kare Kano is one of those series that I keep seeing mentioned in manga circles, but one I never could get into myself.
I reminded myself that I felt that way about Ouran once upon a time, so it was time to give Kare Kano one more chance.The verdict: I gradually warmed up to the story.
I actually found the two main characters unlikeable for 2/3 of the series.
It's the side characters that I grew to love, and I became much more interested in their stories than that of Yukino or Arima.
Decided to re-read this manga to find again what it is that makes me love this series... and should I keep it or give it away.Turns out I love the chemistry between Miyazawa and Arima... I know it'll get tough later, and everything is not all sweet and sunshine, but for now, the story is still amusing and entertaining.
This book is one of my favorites to read. It's an extremely cute love story that inspires me to do better in school.
Creative, funny story. The art may be a bit uneven, but the characters shine.
I love the darkness in this series, it makes it a bit more believable.
Oh my god. I want to punch that guy in the face.
My friend use to bring them to school and during Science class we used to read them ♥My love for Kare Kano hasn't change.
There are some ridiculous parts where I just roll my eyes (because come on, who cares how she behaves at home, we are all different at home, at work or school, but then again this is a different culture).I love Yukino, she's funny, arrogant, self-absorbent but truly she's sweet and caring.
I love her character, she's so out of this world, sometimes dumb, other times just plain funny.
And Arima, my goodness, such a sweet and handsome character.
La protagonista se me hizo un poco odiosa (su interés amoroso un poco menos pero por ahí anda), y me cansé de encontrar errores boludos de tipeo y similares en la edición argentina, pero tengo que reconocer que me llegó la historia (y el capítulo extra que no tiene nada que ver suma mucho) y que es bastante buena en representar los miedos y dudas que todos tuvimos durante la adolescencia. No creo que me devore los tomos siguientes enseguida pero al menos sé que la voy a retomar con gusto.
It is not as good as the anime, which is my favourite of all time. If I had read the manga first, I might be more lenient and find it amazing. However, this manga just leaves me craving all the detail of the anime, which was much better developed. There is one additional story at the end, (not in the anime) that was somewhat interesting, although the protagonist's self loathing makes me dislike her somewhat.
(this is for the whole series of 20 books)Actually one of the best stories of the kind. The anime was also really good (and the unique director there helped), but here the story progresses at a nicer pace, and all the loose ends get tied at the end.The characters are somewhat over-the-top, but not by much.
UPDATEUp to Volume 14. (6/15/16) Now we're getting to the real drama llama! Arima's mother! (bitch...)Such a classic. This is what I read constantly in middle school and I love love love it. The evolving relationship between the two main characters is adorable and makes me remember when I first started dating and how everything felt for the first time. *sigh* memory lane.
I like the story, I do not have any experimence of reading of shoujo. It is a typical shoujo manga. If you are interested in shoujo manga. please read it. I am looking forward to reading next volume.
The book Kare Kano by Masami Tsuda is a romantic comedy manga. The book is set in a japanese high school. It is about a girl named Yukino Miyagawa and she has the perfect grades, is the most popular, and is one of the most beautiful girl in school. But what happens when it is just an act and a boy comes along and ruins it all. This boy is named Soichiro Arima he is smart, helpful, is insanely smart, and is stealing her spot and ruining her reputation. No matter how hard she tries he still one-up
The book Kare Kano by Masami Tsuda is a romantic comedy manga.
She does it because she doesn’t want anyone to know her secret.I really love this book because one, the art is amazing.
It is probably girls mostly but a boy would enjoy this book to.
I feels it mostly younger girls because it is a bit childish and it is a romantic comedy.
Younger girls are more likely to be attracted to a romantic comedy book than an older male.
I also do not know many adults that read manga either.
Overall it is a good book and i would recommend it.
*sniff sniff* I'm so glad this one stood up the test of time!I started reading this one...
I remember because I bought it on something called the Boekenfestijn and that year they only had one small table of manga.
I already started reading manga online so I was very excited I could finally buy some!
I do remember that but once I stared reading...
I once bought a few volumes in Spanish (?) because of false information but I forgot I had it and couldn't return it when I finally came around to reading.

This is exactly what I thought it would be.
It's exactly as the summary says it is.
I thought the main girl (I haven't remembered their names yet...) wouldn't fall that fast for the guy.
Most shoujo is just the girl being dense af, and honestly, that's my favorite trope ever.
Dense girls make the plot so much more entertaining and funny.
Yet freaking by the first volume it seems the ship has sailed.
I'll give the 2nd volume a try just to see it if gets better...
but honestly speaking it's not that entertaining as of the moment.
Classic shoujo slice of life. The pacing is quick, but the story is effective and you can't help but be charmed by Kano. I don't think it's the first "secret life of a perfect girl" manga, but it has been incredibly influential on the shoujo scene. It's funny to think about the tropes that were prevalent in the 90s and see them still in shoujo today.If you want to do a quick shojou manga history lesson, this is a worth while read.
La partenza di questo manga è molto "leggera" della serie una volta che ho trovato il ragazzo la storia finisce e invece no :P continua e approfondisce molto bene i personaggi secondari, tipo i genitori di Arima, diventando anche piuttosto seria come lettura.Tutti i personaggi secondari sono ben caratterizzati ed approfonditi ed ognuno ha il suo piccolo momento di gloria ^^
I remember this series. I remember loving it and thinking it was so lovely and endearing... I remember holding the first volume in my hands as I read it in my bed, in this very same room, years ago. I just started reading it again and it holds up just as well. It is so endearing and cute. I can't wait to read the entire series.
Me encanta este manga, pero reconozco que empieza un poco flojito. Si estáis leyéndolo y no os ha convencido, seguid adelante aparecerá más 'chicha' y os enganchará irremediablemente.Os lo digo yo, que lo empecé a ver, seguí leyéndolo online y ahora por fin he conseguido toda la colección en físico *-*
I rather liked this series, it wavers between a 3.5 and 4 star read for me. Good story but it went on too long and by the later volumes I was sort of over the series. Still, I enjoyed it when I was reading it at the time it came out. Not a keeper though I think I swapped away the whole series on Mangatude.com.
Ho colto l'occasione della nuova ripubblicazione da parte di Planet Manga per poter iniziare questo manga. Ho guardato qualche episodio di questo anime e mi ha sempre ispirato. Il primo volumetto mi ha proprio coinvolto e mi è piaciuto molto, non vedo l'ora di leggere il prossimo!
Super cute! Having fun re-reading this.
The art is not great, but the story will keep you invested.
I really liked the manga and thought it was amazing. I like how they started off as enemies and grew into something more. Defiantly going to continue reading the series.
In my opinion, 'Kare Kano: His and Her Circumstances' is one of the most underrated shoujo and slice-of-life manga series ever.
'Kare Kano' contains such an endearing and cute cast of characters who each get a development story arc - and who have their individual hobbies and ambitions, including writing, running and designing.So the series may appear simple and sweet on the surface, but it is surprisingly witty, and a dark take on shoujo drama titles, especially for the mid-to-late nineties when it first came out.
Overall, 'Kare Kano' is a lovely little high school drama manga.

(Edizione corretta, referente a quella in mio possesso).Preferenza da adulta.Voce di Marco Vivio che mi ha inseguita fino alla chiosa...
Trus cerita nya gt deh, karna satu dua hal Arima akhirnya tau kalau selama ini Miyazawa cuma pura-pura tampil sempurna, kalem.
Dan Miyazawa pun akhirnya tau tentang masa lalu Arima yg ternyata bukan anak kandung orang tuanya yang sekarang., dan untuk balas budi, Arima belajar mati-matian sekalian buat buktiin ma keluarga besarnya, terutama tantenya, kalau dia itu bukan 'sampah' seperti yg mereka cap selama ini..
:(Selain kisah cinta, di komik ini juga byk diceritain tentang masa lalu Arima, siapa Ayah dan Ibu kandungnya, tentang teman2 sekolah, eskul, keluarga Miyazawa yg akur, tentang Papa nya yang over protective ma putri-putri nya.
The intended reader is someone who likes shojo, high school manga, and humorous love stories.
With her ego in jeopardy, Yukino will do whatever it takes to regain the spotlight, but falling in love was never part of the plan.Review- A cute and funny high school romance.
Yukino's inner thoughts are great but I wanted more from Soichiro.
Yukino has some great development in this first volume.
Of course young love makes everything more dramatic but it was a fun read and I am looking forward to seeing where this long series goes.I give this volume a Five out of Five stars.
