https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/960493.Descent_into_Hell
Another beautiful passage in the book is where Williams describes one character offering Joy in exchange for carrying the other person’s fear.
The reader watches in fearful fascination as the deadly descent begins and progresses.This was my first ever book by Charles Williams, a friend of J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis and a member of the famous Inklings, the literary pub group they belonged to.
I can just imagine Williams reading this book to his compatriots.
Again, just imagine the great conversations they had!Read Descent Into Hell but plan to take your time with it.
I read this book once way back in the day, in my teens or twenties sometime. It was vivid, and I remembered details of the book, and other details from Williams' other novel. That said, I thought that Williams was a gifted weirdo. I decided to read this book again, and really enjoyed it. I am reminded of Mark Twain's comment that when he was 17, his father was an idiot, and when he was 21, he was amazed to see how the old man had grown in four years.
Here be some trippy penteChristal shite. Threnodic theatre, scaffold ghosts dazed and confused, a funhouse of sin where the mirrors reveal the distortions to body, mind and soul by a self-centeredness and worldly rapture threatening to metastasize, and the most baroque ego-suppurating beat-down since the mascaraed spiritual insolvency of the volcanic vultures from  Riders in the Chariot . Williams' style squeezes the air from your lungs, making the process of penetrating the mysteries of his tal
Here be some trippy penteChristal shite.
Threnodic theatre, scaffold ghosts dazed and confused, a funhouse of sin where the mirrors reveal the distortions to body, mind and soul by a self-centeredness and worldly rapture threatening to metastasize, and the most baroque ego-suppurating beat-down since the mascaraed spiritual insolvency of the volcanic vultures from 
Riders in the Chariot
. Williams' style squeezes the air from your lungs, making the process of penetrating the mysteries of his tale a distinctly uncomfortable and asphyxiating experience—it's like reading with a pair of eyeglasses that tauten one's vision and limn each word with bruising vigor.
This is a remarkable novel.
Further, the various characters involved in the play soon reveal various jealousies, motives and rivalries.
Margaret is Pauline's dying grandmother and is a beautifully drawn character.
Pauline is a deeply tormented person and through her relationship with Stanhope we learn of the law of "substituted love", an aspect of Williams' theological concept of Co-inherence.
Much of the novel focuses on his choices and he is the character that gives the novel its name.
It is a novel that goes to the roots of being and combines the visions of the eagle and the worm.
From beginning to end, Williams crafts a story that reads more like a theological drama which, though obscure, is deeply personal and engaged with humanity's need for communion with God and one another.
This story expands one's theological imagination, even if Williams drifts a touch too far from orthodox understandings of the eternal realm and individual responsibility.
But a drift is not a departure, and the work which evangelical Christians need most is the expansion of their imagination.
I have seen no writing like this – perhaps the equally difficult and intense but very un-Christian John Cowper Powys might come close and perhaps there is something of the chilled intellect and emotional desert of the world of Brief Encounter in it, but it is rare to find something that can convey so effectively not what we might feel like if we met a ghost but what it is to be a ghost, as a rational possibility.And that is the point – Williams makes supernaturalism vividly possible, based on persons who are real rather than merely allegorical (though there is a dash of minor key allegory in each).
In Descent into Hell, Charles Williams sees beyond that fundamental opposition, which is a byproduct of temporal reality, into the deeper truth where those contradictory ends of a rope join and are one.
Similarly, an unnamed workman, worn out with a life of ill treatment, commits suicide by hanging himself with a rope very like the one down which Wentworth is climbing in his mind.
The dead man, in the past, and Wentworth, in his sullied mind, stand elbow to elbow unaware of each other.
Pauline hears about his martyrdom, and Stanhope suggests that she can carry her ancestor's fear for him.Descent into Hell really is CW's best book.
Probably the greatest Christian novel ever. Williams transforms occult symbols into vehicles for Christian truth. His ability to see into spiritual reality is unparalleled. He is said to have been a man for whom the Nicene Creed was as real and operative as the law of gravity. People in this novel interact with the Triune God mostly without knowing it, deciding their eternal destiny based on their response. A welcome change from most modern novels where characters live in an empty, absurd universe.
WARNING: If you feel like retaining any sanity, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK! Perhaps the best description of this book is that it's "terribly good." Not for the faint of heart.
Any reader who takes the dark and often surreal journey through this novel of his, "Descent Into Hell", will understand clearly how Williams gained his reputation.Here you will find what, on the surface, seems a simple enough plot: a group of amateur actors putting on a play in a small town.
But, as Williams masterfully pulls back the curtain of their lives, you'll discover the deep existential struggles that plague many of the group's members.
And, from beginning to end, there are deep theological and philosophical musings that require some close reading to comprehend.
This is a brilliant and bewildering book. As is typical of Charles Williams, he has a grand, absorbing vision but he writes so obliquely it can be very difficult to understand what he's trying to say. The chapter "Dress Rehearsal" is magnificent as Williams exquisitely describes a character whose mad desire and narcissism transforms him, turning him in on himself (one detects "The Great Divorce") and enslaved to false fantasy. I love how Williams writes so imaginatively of the natural and supernatural worlds. This book requires a second reading.
For example, early in the book one of the characters commits suicide and then proceeds to spend the majority of the book wandering around before eventually being called before God. I am still not sure what that particular subplot was all about.There are a number of other characters and plots in the book that I was unable to make heads or tails of but the main takeaway from this novel seems to be that the individual contains the seeds of Heaven and Hell within them and so far as this life is concerned, it is a matter of determining a sort of inner spiritual equivalent of physical attributes like trajectory and velocity.
Outside of the occasional similarity in the style of structuring sentences, however, Williams's writing is in fact the opposite of Chesterton's- it has no joy, no life, no wit behind it, rather it oscillates between bare competence (when addressing the actions of the characters, which Williams obviously cares very little about) and barely coherent rambling (when Williams is piling on his mystical nonsense).
So in the future I'm going to avoid books described in ways reminiscent of how this one was described as "[t]he key to Williams' mystically oriented theological thought" unless it's from a proven author like Chesterton.
The power in the book is not the dribble and ramble of what people are thinking, but when he actually forgets it and just describes things and people's direct motivations.
(Notice how there's a lot of theological talk, but no real talking to each other about repentance or salvation who aren't already saved?) The dropping of plots wholesale, and the creation of new ones mid-book.It's frustrating because there are scenes that have a lot of dark power, and things that could have them if not neglected.
Here is a typical sentence: “The edge of the other world was running up along the sky, the world where everyone carried themselves but everyone carried someone else’s grief – Alice in Wonderland, sweet Alice, Alice sit by the fire, the fire burned: who sat by the fire that burned a man in another’s blood on the grass of a poet’s houses where things were given backward, and rules were against rights and rights against rules, and a ghost in the fire was a ghost in the street, and the thing that had been was the thing that was to be and it was coming, was coming; what was coming; what but herself?
When she confesses this to Stanhope, he tells her that he would like to take on her burden for her, and because she concedes, after their encounter she remembers his vow and is able to reject the near-paralyzing fear that she used to associate with meeting her"self" on the street.
See, this is why subsequent readings is necessary for me.) Stanhope, on his end of the deal, acknowledges that it's far easier for him to carry the Pauline's emotional burdens because he doesn't have the same stake in Pauline meeting her doppelganger face to face that Pauline does.
I can see why Lewis picked this as one of the 10 works that most influenced his way of thinking.
Wow. I've been planning on reading him for some time, but had been hesitant due to mixed reviews from unnamed persons.
Upon finding Frank Peretti upon their shelves, I happily heaved their advice overboard and bought the first Williams I could find, which happened to be Descent Into Hell.Reviewing this book is hard.
The only explanation for Williams being as unknown as he is is two-fold: either this is by far his best work, or he was simply overshadowed by the vast output of Lewis and the incomparable genius of Tolkien.
But this book is so very worth the read.
The story is often described as a "supernatural thriller." The book opens with a group of actors planning a community play written by a poet/playwright, Peter Stanhope in their posh countryside English community of Battle Hill.
The story takes some twists and turns going from the world of the dead of Battle hill to the world of the living, then dreams and further still the supernatural or unseen world.
From chapter to chapter Williams switches to stories about the lives of the different actors and people of Battle Hill.
The actors in the play are faced with choices in their lives.
After reading Lewis's Great Divorce, I revisited Charles Williams's Descent into Hell.
Back in my college days, I was sadly ignorant of both works, which go a long way toward illuminating Great Divorce and Descent into Hell.
In the same class we read That Hideous Strength, which some rightly call Lewis's Charles Williams novel.
Both share a very mystical, thriller quality.I think Charles Williams's novels are considerably less accessible than Lewis's, which probably explains why so few of us read them, and when we do we are perplexed.
This book made me think, but I also felt that I was missing a great deal of what was being said.
Charles Williams is a great genius. The Doctrine of Substituted Love, alongside his notions of co-inherence, make him, in my view, one of the greatest realistic emotional visionaries of any time.
Its Christian themes are completely hidden at the beginning.In my opinion, Descent Into Hell is to some extent a Gothic variation on C.S. Lewis' The Great Divorce.
Although sharing the same theme, Descent Into Hell's Gothic atmosphere contrasts with The Great Divorce's definitely pastoral vision, making them like mirror images.
Whereas The Great Divorce depicts Heaven and makes characters who reject it simply disappear from it without showing where they go, Descent Into Hell does the opposite: it skips visions of Heaven and goes straight for characters' experiences of a personal and then physical hell: whether entering (because they don't want to be with God) or being allowed to leave (because they accept the offer of release, depicted as loving assistance from Christian characters).
Williams seems to be trying to help the reader see the world as God sees it, with the spiritual world active around and through the material world our perception usually limited to, and with Time no longer a sequence of successive points but a vast web of interrelated actions in an eternal Now. Descent into Hell makes a good companion to C.S. Lewis’s The Great Divorce, and will probably be easier to understand by those who have read that book first.
Despite this book being about the gradual damnation of a human soul - who consistently chooses himself over greater reality - its cosmological vision is deeply redemptive.
Williams is one of those rare authors who is able to be true to both the glories and the horrors of human experience.
He comes down on the side of glory, but not by lying about the realities of evil and suffering.
Perhaps because of Williams' complexity, I have read this book with pleasure several times, and each time have found some new argument or image to consider.
This is a brooding, introspective horror novel that contains a proclamation of Christ's love and mercy!
Here the spirits of the dead can mingle with the living and the battle for our souls is manifest in physical horror.
One, that we should develop in ourselves a Christlike love and joy that transcends our selfish desires.
The second is that we should try to bear one another's burdens.
Not just pitching in with chores or being a listening ear--we should literally try to carry the fears and worries and spiritual weight, when possible, of our neighbors.
One of my favorite books ever.
I would say that Williams demonstrates that it is the refusal to be joyful.
Actually, I think this is the third or fourth time reading this book, and I still think it's one of the best.
Williams was a genius.
This time I read it slowly and was able to track each step of Wentworth's retreat from joy and deterioration into the final pit of despair that he created for himself, with the parallel story of Pauline's ascent from fear into joy under the guidance of a poet.
I just finished rereading Charles Williams' *Descent Into Hell*. I enjoyed it very much, although I did notice this time, it's neither as thrilling nor as humorous as *War In Heaven* or *Many Dimensions*. It does remain a fascinating illustration of Williams' notion of "the doctrine of substituted love," and his idea of how people choose heaven or hell through seemingly insignificant everyday decisions. As my favorite Fuller professor says, Charles' Williams novels are not to everyone's taste--and, I would add, they are probably not to many people's taste. But they are very much to mine.
This book left me with mixed feelings.For the most part, this is due to Williams' uneven writing style. The narrative he presents is evocative and intriguing but suffers due to his frequent oscillation between genuinely profound moments and (seemingly) nonsensical drivel fueled by his penchant for the arcane.So, upon this first reading, I think this should be more of a 3-star review. However, the fact that there are some truly moving and incredibly thought provoking passages means that, for the time being, I'll give Williams the benefit of the doubt and give the book 4 stars.
hopefully time for a full review sometime soon. This is the best of Williams novels. The interweaving of character, plot & symbolism are the most whole & effective of the 7. This was my 4th or 5th read of this particular title & it leaves the joy of much still to discover in future readings.
Dammit Charles. I love you but couldn't you have been a little clearer? This was a bit of a slog.
Like Lewis and Tolkien, Williams wrote fantasies with Christian allegorical themes.
If this man was able to die without feeling fear, why does Pauline fear walking down the street?The answer to that question is where Descent into Hell gets radical and theologically interesting.(view spoiler)[Pauline's fears serve a purpose beyond her understanding: her suffering is part of a grand plan.
Wentworth fails utterly to achieve this ideal, but Pauline, after much struggle, avoids her own personal descent.
The image of self-sacrificing love stretching across space and time is a thrilling one, but not all of Williams's theological ideas convince.
