https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12017.Inversions
Banks' books are packed with big, way-out-there moments.
His work is big and brash and in your face, and extended subtlety is not something Banks often employs.
But perhaps it is this silence, the silence of the things that are missing, the subtle hints Banks gives us, that say everything that needs to be said.This book is beautiful.
I've described many Banks books in many ways, but beautiful is a new descriptor for me.
I want to share the beauty of this book with everyone, but as I learned before writing this review, I may be the only one who sees the beauty of Inversions.
I would suggest only reading this one after having read a few other culture novels prior and in close succession; it is very, very subtle but absolutely brilliant.Told from the perspective of two very different characters, one a personal account, one a dramatization of events prior, it is a story about the brutalities of man, war, and sovereignty, but ultimately about a difference of opinion on intervention policy, and a difference of opinion on how that intervention should be executed.It’s very, very good.
Very good.
:)So what of the story?Actually, this one shares in the great reversals of our understanding, just like the other Culture novels.
We go along with interesting tales only to have a reveal that shatters our understanding of what we read.
It's a simple tale on the surface, yet there's always past horrors to work through and there happens to be a certain Captain of the Guard from where the good doctor came from who is out to bring her back or to justice, traveling all the way across the country.
It reads mostly like a Medieval tale.
It is possible to deduce that considering the King's progressive direction, that the Culture has placed Vosill in Haspidus in order to keep the King alive as he brings about radical changes and drives the state towards a more equal society; something which would be greatly hindered if the existing nobility which surround the King were allowed to instill their influence or, much more probably, dispose of the King as he begins to change the status quo which they hold so sacred.The fact that the characters who seek to do Vosill harm are all killed leads one to the assumption that, although never actually appearing in the course of the novel, Vosill is accompanied on her mission by some sort of Culture device which is able to provide aid and protection as required.
Por tanto, se trata de un libro de fantasía épica, pero no fantasía al uso (al fin y al cabo estamos hablando de Banks), sino de una historia en la que hay que estar muy atento a los detalles, ya que se hace un paralelismo con nuestra sociedad (y no para bien; me vienen a la cabeza las "trifulcas" entre la Inglaterra de Cromwell y la Francia de Luis XIV).La historia son dos realmente, que en un momento parecen no estar relacionadas, hasta que al final sí parecen tener un punto de unión.
There is ugliness, because Banks never shies from that, and there is quite a bit of witty repartee between the Doctor and her King and between the Bodyguard and the General Protector's favorite concubine.
There is also a tale of a land called Lavishia, and two cousins that lived there, that is the only real clue to the bit of information that was spoiled for me.Ultimately, the stories end, but as with the other Culture novel I have read, the ending is pretty damned emotionally unsatisfactory.
There are 2 separate stories taking place in different parts of the world, each one told in alternating chapters, but the narrator of one section tells us on the prologue they are connected although even he isn't sure how, just that the person relating the second says they are.But there are amusing little hints like this one that tell us the Culture is involved in both: "[...] had been invited to dine with the vessel's captain that evening, but had sent a note declining the invitation, citing an indisposition due to special circumstances.".
Anyway, we find ourselves on one of those non-Culture 'backwards' planets that of course the Culture wants to influence (for their own good, of course) and we are thus presented with two different focuses (or I guess foci) in point of view.
Both of them are, of course, really Culture agents ultimately trying to prove to the other one that their philosophy is the correct one, though of course none of this is particularly obvious unless you've: a) read other Culture novels and b) read between the lines for some of the less explicable events of the story.I found both main characters to be compelling and, most of all, interesting in a way that Banks isn't always able to pull off.
My favorite book by Iain [M] Banks, who is one of my absolute favorite authors. It's in his "Culture" series of novels, but that's only shown by a couple of minor details. It's fully a stand-alone novel - sci-fi with a fantasy feel to it. I stayed up late-late-late last night finishing this - it was a GREAT book. I was really impressed by the way all the little clues fit together... without giving it all away too soon!
In this volume of Culture's series, the author gives a hint on historical fiction genre. Nice touch.4* Consider Phlebas (Culture, #1) 4* The Player of Games (Culture, #2) 4* Use of Weapons (Culture, #3)4* The State of the Art (Culture, #4) 4* Excession (Culture, #5) 4* Inversions (Culture, #6) TR Look to Windward (Culture, #7) TR Matter (Culture, #8) TR Surface Detail (Culture #9) TR The Hydrogen Sonata (Culture #10)
The book keeps building to an exciting end, but the although the twist in the story is quite unexpected but leaves you quite unsatisfied with the end.Some of the strong points of the book are1.Doctor's and bodyguard's pov2.Setting is completely new for culture books.Some of the weak points of the book1.Weak plot.2.Unsatisfactory end.Let me elaborate on the above points of the book1.Doctor's and bodyguard's povThe doctor is somewhat a mystery in the kingdom, because she has come from a far of land and seems to have a cure for all the diseases.
I had major problems feeling connected to the last Culture novel I read, It felt like the author was holding things too close to his chest.
I am pleased to say that I felt no such sense of being on the outside in Inversions.
This was much more welcoming, a more generous exploration of a world on the edge of being subtly interfered with.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
And the Culture is definitely a presence, but it is one that the reader has to tease out and infer—if you haven’t read any of the other Culture novels, then you can still enjoy this story, you’ll just be missing a patina that adds a little bit more flair to that enjoyment.
And I think Inversions as a novel and a whole is made much stronger with both narratives; if this novel were solely Vosill’s portion, I don’t know if I would have enjoyed it as much.Certainly it’s a lot of fun to tease out the hints about the Culture’s involvement.
That said, I think having read at least one Culture books is a prerequisite for fully enjoying Inversions.
I almost wish I had been able to read this book without knowing about the Culture connections, since discovering them unprompted would have been a delight.
Besides, Banks and his publishers undoubtedly thought that playing up the Culture connection would sell more books; indeed, that's why I read Inversions when I did.
The chapters titled "The Bodyguard" initially seem to be in omniscient narration and are the story of the bodyguard of another monarch in a country on the other side of the world.
Inversions is about perspective.
And romantic love.
And familial love.
And political systems.
And political games.
And fear of the unknown.
And faith in the unknown.
And embracing the unknowable.Inversions is about so many worthy ideas, so many ideas that deserve serious consideration, and the book tackles each idea in ways that are both insightful and enjoyable for the reader.
Inversions tackles too many worthy ideas for a 350-page book.
It's tackle one idea and on to the next.I loved the story.
I loved the characters, at least the three-dimensional ones; plenty are 2-D, too.
I loved the ideas.
I loved the perspective.
Unlike Matter, that is where this book's sci-fi aspect stops short.While this book sits apart from Banks' world of Minds, drones and drug-glands, it's laced with hints that its protagonists do belong to that realm.
We even read that Vosill declined an invitation to dinner, "due to special circumstances".I found the book to be an enjoyable one, but its mysteries are perhaps a little frustrating.
Coming from his prior works - in which very little goes unexplained - I was frustrated by the questions left hanging.
Still, what we read here is a brief window into two people's lives, and they are as rich and shocking as any other of Banks' creations.
It is remarkable that this novel is counted as sf and as part of Banks' Culture books.
The setting of the book corresponds to the late medieval, albeit with the human characters on a planet in a binary system with no sense of an earthly background.
The one great exception to the period is the mysterious doctor, a woman who holds quite modern ideas of medicine and is capable of certain mysterious feats which suggest her Culture origin.
Other than this, however, the book is basically storytelling in a medieval context--good enough storytelling to merit four stars from this satisfied reader.
Kaut kur uzzināju, ka šī grāmata ir vis nesaistītākā no visām sērijas grāmatām, jo Kultūras civilizācijā tajā tiek pieminēta tikai garāmejot.Nomaļā planētā, kuru apspīd seši mēneši, spiegs raksta ziņojumu savam saimniekam par kādu dakteri Vosill, viņa dīvainā kārtā ir kļuvusi par vietējā karaļa ārstu un uzticamības personu.
Taču viņiem abiem ir kaut kas kopīgs.Šīs grāmatas centrālais temats ir par Kontaktu.
Vosill ir viena no kontakta, viena no tām retajām Kultūras civilizācijas pārstāvēm, kura nav ar mieru vadīt dzīvi bezriska pārticībā.
Pie reizes arī uzzinās, kādēļ viņi Kultūras vietā ir izvēlējušies dzīvot uz šīs nomaļās planētas.Grāmatai lieku 7 no 10 ballēm, nevar teikt, ka biju stāvā sajūsmā.
This may be meaningful in a philosophical sense, but doesn't make for engaging reading, at least not for me.I've found that my enjoyment of this series falls in two camps: (1) novels where members of The Culture takes the main role, such as Player of Games, Excession, and (2) ones where the bulk of the action were non-Culture, such as Use of Weapons, Inversions, and possibly Matter.The former I found frivolous and boring.
Luke and I talk about how much we enjoyed the book on the SFBRP #224. It feels very much like a medieval criminal story with culture background - so pretty much the perfect mix for me!If you haven't read any of the culture series books yet, you might enjoy this book, but you will miss all references to the overall series - which I think would be a pity because this is what the book is all about.
Nějak mi to sci-fi ani fantasy moc nejde a nejede, ale geniální překlad Viktora Janiše mi to čtení usnadnil. Kvůli překladu tři hvězdičky, obsah jen dvě.
Before picking this up, i started and dropped like 4-ish books and this is the one that actually stuck. It's now ranked highly on my list of the "Culture" series books i've read so far for the clever manner in which the story was structured in relation to the general series-verse. To fully appreciate the subtle nuances and hidden gems in it, i think it's better to have read at least some other Culture books, not because of any interlinked story but to appreciate the quiet hints dropped in it. Definitely a solid 4.5 stars for me.
I didn't love this as much as some of the Culture novels. It has more of a fantasy tone than the usual space opera, taking place on a backward planet that almost seems medieval. There are two narratives that aren't really related to each other though they take place in the same period of time.
I didn't like Inversions quite as much as Banks' other work; this one was more slow-moving and sedate, and only really turned to Banks' perfect break-neck pace towards the very end.
So maybe Banks is just awesomely experimental in general.)I love the format behind it, though -- the concept of 'inversions' and the dual narrators is genius, with some amazing payoff at the end (or towards the beginning, if you're an astute reader!).
Both Vosill (the Doctor) and DeWar (the Bodyguard) are fascinating characters, and the characterisations are so solid all around.
Inversions is the Culture book that trips you up - if it didn't say A Culture Novel on the front cover, you could be forgiven for spending most of it thinking it was one of Iain M.
Each has plenty to teach those who will listen to them, and each has a mission - which may not be the simple mission of protecting their ruler.Inversions is Contact in deep cover - or what happens when Contact agents go rogue and set themselves personal challenges - and I loved it, in spite of being probably the weakest in terms of world building.
El relato de dos historias entrecruzadas, la de la doctora Vosill y el guardaespaldas DeWar en un mundo que guarda cierta relación con la saga de La Cultura.
El enfoque de Banks es más sentimental que en otras ocasiones y el marco de la narración, un mundo tardo medieval en el que están a punto de desarrollarse reformas sociales y económicas tras la catastrófica caída de un imperio.
Un relato sobre la lealtad, el engaño y lo relativo de los puntos de vista que se pueden tener sobre la valía de los líderes.
Zvláštní fantasy příběh, vlastně dva příběhy, které postupně splývají. Hrdinkou prvního z nich je tajemná králova lékařka ze vzdálené cizí země, v tom druhém je hlavní postavou osobní strážce diktátora. Oba z nich bojují jak s neustálými úklady, tak se svými vlastními city a oba nakonec v tomto boji prohrávají. Velmi dobré, doporučuji.
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #224.
Certain writers write the same story over and over, others try to baffle the reader by doing something you don't anticipate; Banks is somehow both of these writers.
And yet -- here's what I don't expect from Banks: a bog-standard pop culture understanding of mediaeval Europe mapped onto a different planet.
It turns out -- in retrospect unsurprisingly -- that there's some sort of point that Banks is making with this calque of a world we've seen a thousand times before: (view spoiler)[they're imaginary and yet they contain so much violence against women, not as a way to talk about violence against women or the consequences thereof, but as a power fantasy.
The doctor, with medical knowledge from way beyond the society, is the king's personal physician and ensures he is healthy whilst occasionally doing other medical duties when required.
Her foreignness, her great knowledge of things and her closeness to the king lead to troubles with the nobles.
The other narrative, told in the third person, focuses on deWar, personal bodyguard to the Protector Urleyn, a king in all by name.
The two narratives show how two people intervene in their ruler and the way they rule the kingdom.
Bodyguard deWar intervenes directly and obviously, getting closely involved in his personal affairs.
