https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15566.The_Elf_Queen_of_Shannara
The Elf Queen of Shannara, book three of The Heritage of Shannara, is the story of Wren Ohmsford, and her journey to find the Elves and restore them to the Four Lands.
Truths that will temper her in such a way that either she will emerge stronger than ever before, or she will be emotionally and psychologically destroyed.As the book begins, Wren and her friend and guardian, Garth, are attempting to contact the Elves via the method they had learned about in the previous book.
As derivative as it was, I really enjoyed The Sword of Shannara, and its less clichéd sequel The Elfstones of Shannara was also great. Kind of kept me reading at that stage of my life. Maybe I had outgrown Brooks by the time I read this one as it didn't resonate nearly as strongly with me. The other reviews here are quite celebratory, I was more at the other end of the spectrum. I didn't loathe it, but I certainly felt it was just an 'OK' read.
Ο μπρουκς τρώει τρελο κραξιμο... Η αλήθεια είναι ότι αν βάλεις το σπαθι των σαναρα στο plagiarism... Θα βγάλει επικάλυψη 95% σε τολκιν.... Τα υπόλοιπα ξεφεύγουν αρκετά και είναι καλά, διασμεδαστικα... Εύκολα... Ευχάριστα... Έτσι κι εδω....
And, of course, about who we are – who we want to be, and who we find ourselves becoming through events beyond our control when a choice is really no choice at all, and learning to accept that person, that destiny, that charge with all it entails.Favorite quotes:    “We are given our destiny in life by something we can neither understand nor control, and it binds us to our future as surely as any magic.” [said Eowen] page 136    “[…] We are both victims of circumstances set in motion three hundred years ago, and we would neither of us be so if we had the choice.
Terry Brooks's Shannara books are usually of the highest quality as far as fantasy novels are concerned, and the Elf Queen is no different.
The third novel in the Heritage of Shannara series features Wren Ohmsford as the feature character.
Wren has been tasked to return the elves back to the four lands after they fled for some time.
Brooks is a very talented writer, which is quite evident in this novel.
Wren is a strong female character, which is atypical of most epic fantasy novels and series.
Another strong installment by Terry Brooks, one worth reading.Carl Alves - author of Blood Street
Best in the cycle up to this point, probably my favorite Shannara book yet. Lots of continuous action, good dramatic tension, nice character development. And Wren is cool.
Having been given three separate quests from the The Heritage of Shannara 4-part story line divides the books up to a focus on each one of those parties.
In The Elf Queen of Shannar (the 3rd book in The Heritage of Shannara) each quest is talked about, but Wren Ohmsford's trek to find the lost Elves of Arborlon is given the most space in this book.
Ich habe das Buch innerhalb von zwei Tagen durchgelesen. Es ist mir unglaublich schwer gefallen die Geschichte aus der Hand zu legen, denn vor allem Wren und Garth sind mir unfassbar ans Herz gewachsen. Ihr Schicksal und ihr Abenteuer haben mich komplett für sich eingenommen und ich wollte einfach unbedingt wissen, was mit ihnen geschieht. Terry Brooks hat erneut gezeigt, was er kann und ich bin absolut begeistert. Ich kann es kaum erwarten den letzten Teil dieser Reihe in den Händen zu halten.
I love her character and I love elves - so it was a great combo.
Her quest to find the long lost elves takes quite a few twists and turns until she finds her lucky break - the hag that finally has many of the answers she's looking for, but it only gets more dangerous and exciting from there.
There's a lot of great epic moments of heroism from just about every person in the story.
Again, the only downfall was that I wish I could see what the other main characters from the previous books were up to while Wren was on her quest.
This is the 3rd book in the second series set in Shannara!
Wren Ohmsford has been tasked with finding the Elves, who disappeared generatiosn ago, and bringing them back to the present world.
Somewhere, Wren must find a trace of the Elves and learn about her heritage...and her future.Another fantastic Shannara book.
Like most fantasies, Wren is a reluctant heroine, but her 'journey' is portrayed as being more 'realistic' than your normal hero.
I can't wait to read the last in the series to find out how Wren, and the other Scions, fare in the war against the Shadowen.
"One will come for you."Tiger Ty, the Wing Rider, had come on his giant Roc to carry Wren and her friend Garth to the only clear landing site on the island of Morrowindl, where, he said, the Elves might still exist, somewhere in the demon-haunted jungle.Now she stood within that jungle, remembering the warning of the Addershag: "Beward, Elf-girl.
How long could she resist?And if, by some miracle, she reached the Elves and could convince them to return, how could they possibly retrace her perilous path to reach the one safe place on the coast?
Book #16/29 on my Epic Shannara Quest.This is one of those books that tells a similar story that has already been told (though to be fair, this one was published first).
The story of the Loden Elfstone and how it once saved the Elves was also related in The Elves of Cintra, which was book #5 in my quest due to it's chronological placement in the Shannara series.
And the secrets revealed were what I suspected all along and not much of a surprise.But the potential for a great finale to this series exists and I'm looking forward to the next installment.
I've been very impressed with the direction of the series and even though I've enjoyed the fact that each book before followed a different set of Ohmsford's it was nice to have this run follow the same set of characters. I love each of them equally and Wren is a great addition to the Ohmsford's as well as a much needed strong female character. Excited for the conclusion of this part of the books and to see where Brooks takes the next set.
Easily the best book of the second Shannara series, with Wren being sent on a journey to bring the elves back to Shannara, from wherever they vanished to. This contains a tight plot and some very harrowing scenes, the scariest since Elfstones. Unfortunately, it breaks off every now and then to tell the stories of the other characters on their separate quests. Unless you're reading the whole series, just skip those parts altogether. This would have made a very good stand-alone novel, instead of a gem among lumps of coal.
A refreshingly decent book in the series.
The action turns to Wren and Garth, and their "charge" to bring the Elves back to the world of men.
As in his previous books, things seem to happen a little too conveniently and quickly for my liking in this series, and at times it feels like I am reading an abridged version.
This book also plays host to a plethora of characters, and it works.
Even to the point of slowly killing them all off toward the end.
Overall I enjoyed Wren's decent into the jaws of hell and back again.
I really wanted to like this one, since I liked the first three books very much. However, the second set started out weak and by the time I got to Elf Queen, I had the distinct impression that Terry Brooks was as eager to get it over with as I was. I saw none of the care he took in Sword, Elfstones, or Wishsong, and felt he took too much time with trivial details and not enough time in making me believe the characters. A huge disappointment for me.
It looks like TB has something going on here as this book was full of captivating adventure and kept up the pace. I have to point out that characters are too insecure and book has same repeating patterns used previously in series, but plot twists compensated if quite nicely.
Fun and interesting story. Great imagery and visualization. A bit predictable in many parts, but overall a fun read which is what the Shannara books are all about.
The magic use of the Loden stone was explained to Wren, to explain how the Elves moved to Moorwindl and how they would go back to the Four lands carried by a group of nine, including the Tree Squeak and the Splintercat.
By the time they reach the beach area of the island to be rescued, only Wren, Triss the captain of the Home Guard and the two creatures are left to be rescued by Tiger Ty a Wing Elf with his Roc, Spirit.We know that Par has the Sword of Shannara, given him by Rimmel Dall, chief Shadowen, even though he has figured out the magic of it yet.
I've been reading all of the Shannara books in order, and up until this one, they have been getting better and better.
The book is frustrating to read as nearly every page contains repetitious attempts to explain Wren's feelings.
Also, the other characters in this book are for the most part more typical of Brooks' books, being determined, honorable, and cool (in other words, fun to read about).Hopefully the Heritage and Shannara will pick up the pace and focus on more likable characters.
Nada tiene que ver el primer libro con el sexto, los personajes no son tan planos, las mujeres han cogido protagonismo y la historia tiene más profundidad.
La historia es absorbente y carece de capítulos monótonos que quieres pasar cuanto antes para retomar la trama de Wren.Lo único que puede ser negativo en este libro es que podría haber tenido un aire más tétrico, de pesadilla y horror los capítulos de Morrowindl.
Según las descripciones de los monstruos y las situaciones que viven Wren y sus amigos, tendría que haber habido más tensión y al final se queda como algo descafeinado.Es una saga de fantasía muy larga pero que va desarrollándose y mejorando con cada libro.
Simplemente, genial.
la saga toma forma, avanza de manera espectacular, ahora nos internamos en la sociedad de los Elfos escondidos, a través de Wren Ohmsford...
o debería decir, Wren Elessedil?
hasta ahí llego, no les diré por qué ese apellido jaja.Descubriremos el origen real de lo que son los espectros y por qué se comportan de esa manera, qué ocurrió, estaremos más del lado de ella, observando todo lo que debe hacer y el camino a seguir para lograr su cometido; mientras tanto, a retazos pequeños observaremos a Walker (en este libro aún no veremos a Par ni Coltar, quizás brevemente pero el libro nos irá centrando por los mencionados ya anteriormente).Me ha gustado como se ha ido encadenando todo, pero aún tienen cosas por vivir nuestros queridos amigos.
Wren is a great character, in this, the 3rd of the Heritage series. While most of the heroes til this point have been wishy washy as far as taking on their quests and using their magical skills, Wren is a woman who takes charge and once her path is set, goes all in. Adding to the list of strong women, along with Quickening and Damson in the Heritage series. Walker Boh's story is continued also, as he achanges greatly as he tries to restore the Druids. Par and Coll's story is advanced very little in this edition.
Terry Brooks' Shannara series is solid, classic fantasy and I have thoroughly enjoyed the journey he's taken me on. But I've always found Brooks' writing lacking in important ways, leaving me unable to rank his work with the truly great writers. This book finally rises to that level and I am happy to give it a full five star rating and a hearty recommendation. The journey has been well worth the payoff in The Elf Queen of Shannara, and I look forward to reading the final chapter of the Heritage series soon.
*4.5/5 Stars*I really enjoyed this one.
It has you gripped from the moment Wren enters Morrowindl.
I think I prefer this one to the others, but then that just might be because it's been months since I read the second book of this series.
I also like how this one ties much better with the rest of the Heritage series - from what I remember, the second one had its own completely new story, whereas this one tied in with the Demons on Morrowindl and the Shadowen in the Four Lands.I've missed this world, and I love TB's world-building, so it's straight on to the next one.
In my opinion this book was better than the Scion's of Shannara but not as good as the Druid of Shannara. Like the first book many of the characters and the relationships between them felt underdeveloped and the plot was predictable at times. However the scenary was new and inspiring and I got more invested with Vren and her new furry friends than I did with Par in the first book. Also the follow up chapters about Valker were fascinating. I am intrigued to find out what will happen with the characters in the last book.
Okay, I'm finally punting on this series.
Re-reading it as an adult (after reading it for the first time in my late teens).
It's just awful.
So awful that I made it through 3 books in a 4-book series and I'm giving up.
I don't care what happens anymore.
It's all so boring, so needlessly drawn out.
I can't stand Brooks' writing style anymore (recapping everything constantly, withholding information just to create suspense when it serves no narrative purpose, etc.).
I might be selling my Brooks collection after this.
There are just so many better books out there.
I really liked this installment from the Heritage of Shannara series. I really like the books that have the Elves in them. This book impressed me because I could actually read it all the way through, unlike some before it. The journey we take with Wren to find and bring back the Elves is a captivating, and sad adventure. It moves at a strong pace and is filled with surprising twists. However, I must say some things were a bit predictable. Can't wait to see what is next for the Elves!
The best of the Heritage of Shannara series so far, and it is entirely to do with the main character. Wren is not as crushingly dull as Par, and she is far less whiny than Walker. Without the endless pages of repetitive angst (there is some, but nowhere near the same amount) the pace of Elf Queen is a lot zippier than its predecessors. There's more action and less complaining, and the book seems shorter and tighter because of it.
A fun read and an interesting twist in this tale of the Heritage series. The Elf Queen keeps us abreast of what is happening to the other characters while focusing on Wren's adventures. A nice climax for many aspects of the series. The tale is also darker than the previous two. I found this a fun read.
