https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1335479.Raven
Since the end of March I carefully read this book with dark fascination and within the last week experienced nightmares, day terrors and profound disillusionment.
Luckily, for me, my parents and family shielded me from this and yet the story permeated society for a number of years and friends used to joke about poisoned fruit juices not really understanding what transpired.I went into this book wanting comprehension of the personality make-up of Jim Jones and how events could transpire to a type of massacre.
Thank god for small favours.Raven was scary, really unsettling and eerie in that this could become so powerful a cult that one man was able to sway over nine hundred people to leave behind everything they knew in the US and flee to Guyana for the creation of a "socialist paradise".
This book, complete with info on Jones himself and some of the defectors who escaped and the congressman who was tragically murdered trying to help rescue people, is one of the best on Jonestown that I've ever read.
He also acknowledges any personal interpretation proffered from audio or visual records of Jones and the People's Temple (in particular, one surviving film document portraying a typical People's Temple gathering, complete with roiling “sermon” and healing session, is related to the reader as the images struck the author).Raven is comprehensive, and provides much background information on some of the Church members themselves, both prominent and lesser-known.
I came across the story many years ago but in fact it's the first time I've read a book on this tragedy. One can treat it as a warning on how easy it's to manipulate people who can't find their place on this planet and thus are terribly vulnerable. A very detailed research into the mind of a real monster and ordinary people's tragedy ...
In case you weren't aware, Jim Jones was one crazy televangelist motherf****, who led over 900 members of his People's Temple Church to commit mass suicide by drinking cyanide laced Flavor-Aid (yes, that's right, it was generic Kool-Aid)in the late 70's.
Yes, this happened a long, long time ago, but yet it still gives me chills when I think about the mindfuck that Jones was perpetuating and that lots of people actually bought into it.
Jones, according to the book, was apparently the Rico Suave of his time, complete with leisure suits and mirrored sunglasses, and a master at manipulating people to get what he wanted.
His book not only examines what happened there, but goes back to the childhood of Jim Jones and the beginnings of the movement known as the Peoples Temple so as to "capture the lure of the Temple, to convey the thinking and personalities of not just disgruntled defectors but also of the heartbroken loyalists with something positive to preserve and remember -- and to unmask the real Jim Jones.
He also shows how when there were attacks on the movement (from the media, "defectors", etc.), Jones' paranoia only made things worse, causing him to do and say things that only heightened their attackers' interests in the Peoples Temple.
Tim Reiterman was a reporter for the San Francisco Examiner who was in Jonestown, Guyana on November 18, 1978 when the infamous massacre occurred.
This book gives a very detailed chronology of the People's Temple, starting with Jim Jones childhood and finishing with the reporter's evacuation after the tragic events.For the most part the account is dry and surprisingly boring considering all the prurient happenings around the People's Temple.
That changes when Mr. Reiterman goes into what happened to him and the other members of his fact finding party in Jonestown on November 17th and 18th, 1978.
It left me feeling well informed about all things surrounding Jim Jones and Jonestown.
Yes this book is long, but it is oh-so-worth the investment.
I've always had a tremendous interest in cult leadership, and Jim Jones is probably the sickest and one of the most evil of them all.
Reading this book, you really come to understand how one man, who clearly resides somewhere well outside of his right mind and is strung out on drugs (Hitler, anyone?) can get hundreds and hundreds of people to follow him not only to a remote island, but to willingly sacrifice their lives and the lives of their children (some in the most gruesome ways) all in the name of his belief system.
This is a very in depth book on Jim Jones and the People's Temple. A story so incredible it's hard to believe it actually happened. A very good read.
I've never used the word 'Tome' to describe a book but it's an apt description for Raven.
It's 600 pages but the physical size of the book is huge!
When the zombie apocalypse arrives i'll be using this as a weapon.At times this was a brilliant and unbelievable read.
Every other page i was asking out loud 'How and Why!!'.
This book was a victim of it's own ending.
Pretty much throughout i was thinking 'Need to get to the end!' because that's the part everyone wants to read.
It's OK for the first 350-400 pages but after that i was periodically losing interest during a few of the chapters.
Reiterman does excellent research and is an engaging writer.
I also liked that Reiterman (despite his own involvement in investigative reporting on Jones and being wounded at the airstrip) doesn't keep needlessly inserting himself in the narrative.
It's a personal pet peeve of mine when nonfiction writers with no connection to a story keep making it all about them, but Reiterman only mentions himself when absolutely necessary, despite his heavy involvement in some of the events.
The exception is that final reporting trip to Jonestown and that awful massacre on the airstrip.
Very very dense and hard to get through. But it made me have a better understanding of the whole situation - I wasn't born when this happened - and the only thing I knew about was the Kool-Aid poison. I feel way more educated about this and very sad for all those people that were involved.
I would recommend it to anybody interested in cults, psychology and the general failure of socialism, top-down governance of people and the western/Christian ideology.
The book is well written and well researched by somebody who was closely involved with the cult and it presents the story from multiple angles ( both inside and outside of the People's Temple ).
The only downside i could find to the book is that i would have liked to know more about what happened in the aftermath of the suicide ( the epilogue is short and it does not cover in detail the stories of survivors and the people affiliated with the temple ).
As one of the victims wounded on the Port Kaituma airstrip, Reiterman also brings his own perspectives to the work as well -- perspectives that are unusually fair for someone almost murdered by the subject of his writing.
Reiterman takes neither path, reminding us that Jim Jones was deranged from a very early age, and he wasn't driven over the edge by fighting the establishment for socialism -- he was all but fulfilling a set of conditions with a single horrifying conclusion.
Of course, the many failures of government and law enforcement to stop Jim Jones were not as inevitable as his own murderous destruction.
Interesting interview with Reiterman and Deborah Layton, author of Seductive Poison A Jonestown Survivor's Story of Life and Death in the People's Temple on KQED. Reminded me of a very important book I read several years ago by John Hall Gone from the Promised Land Jonestown in American Cultural History, an excellent book.
I think is probably the best book written about Jim Jones and his People's Temple. I reread it on average once a year because the narrative is so tight, the scenes and people so well-drawn, the criticism fair and well-balanced, and probably because I keep thinking that maybe one day it will help me understand why this happened.
Probably a bit more 'exhaustive' (boring) than it needed to be, but overall it gave me a good understanding of the People's Temple. Fun fact, it was actually poisoned Flavor-aid they drank, not Kool Aid.
Excellent, thoroughly comprehensive account of Jim Jones and his cult. This book is often chilling and terrifying. Jim Jones was a total psychopath and, if one is inclined to believe in such concepts, truly evil. The book really makes you think about why and how people are psychologically brainwashed. I highly recommend this book.
one of the best history of jim jones and the story os jonestown
And not only did he poison their bodies--along the way, he poisoned their lives as well, often bringing about their utter moral corruption, humiliation, and estrangement from the normal bonds of familial love.Reiterman's hardly an objective chronicler, as he makes clear early on; he was shot in the arm in an ambush by Jones' followers in Guyana, an event that both took the life of a U.S. Congressman and heralded the greatest single-day mass-killing of American civilians until 9/11.
Reiterman follows Jones' life back to the beginning--a strange childhood preaching to schoolmates in eastern Indiana--and forward to the incomprehensible end.
How is it possible that the families of more than 900 people weren't objecting to the sudden, FUCKING BIZARRE behavior of their loved ones?
I'd like to think that if I was talking about suicide, miraculous (and obviously fake) healings, and claiming this random guy from Indiana was my Savior, my mother would fucking snap me out of it.
Jim Jones convinced almost a thousand children and educated, settled adults that he was their savior and they needed to kill themselves in the name of socialism.
* I start sleeping with an image of Jim Jones over my heart to protect myself from death.
Reiterman, the author, was part of the ill-fated group accompanying a U.S. congressman to visit Jonestown, Jones’ retreat in South America – the account of the trip (ending with several of his companions dead) becomes ever more gripping as events run out of control, as guns are waved, as the arrival of this posse of observers pushes Jones into enacted an event he’s prepared his followers for; the final ‘White Night.’ The book isn’t sensationalistic, it doesn’t need to be, by the end one can almost comprehend how people had gradually had their will and independence whittled down so far, or had reached a point where they identified themselves utterly with the roles or positions they possessed in the temple, or simply were too scared to opt out, or were unable to when faced with Jones’ core fanatics and their firepower…Why hundreds of people committed suicide for Jones or accepted what they knew to be poison.
Since the Jonestown tragedy is among my life memories, I'd always been interested in its history.
I recommend it with no reservations and the highest of praise.Originally published in 1982, then reissued in 2008, it remains the gold standard and definitive narrative of Jones, the People's Temple, and the Jonestown holocaust.
Reiterman was among the San Francisco journalists who began looking into Jones' dealings, was in the delegation that so tragically traveled to Jonestown, lived through the massacre itself, and meticulously researched Jones, his life, and the Temple's history for his book.
There’s a thin line between “comprehensively researched” and “exhaustively researched”...
actually, the line’s pretty thick.
And Raven, tipping the scale at 600 pages of tiny text, falls on the wrong side of that thick line.Admittedly, it’s easy to understand why Raven is so long.
Co-author Tim Reiterman was one of the journalists shot by Jim Jones’s militia in the showdown that preceded the mass suicide/massacre.
It’s understandable that Reiterman would want to collect every piece of the story of People’s Temple, in order to fathom how such a tragedy came to pass.
It’s so long and dense that it’s close to unreadable.
This is seriously the ultimate, most comprehensive and complete book about Jim Jones and The Peoples Temple.
The fact that author Tim Reiterman went to Jonestown, Guyana, and lived to research and write about it is unbelievable.
He interviewed and researched The Peoples Temple so extensively, this is as good as it gets.
The writing is solid and informative, and I keep checking it out from the University of New Mexico library to keep learning.
It's over 600 pages of detailed accounts of Peoples Temple life and the crazed mind of Jim Jones.If anyone has a copy to sell, please let me know.
In the book industry terms like "riveting", "edge of your seat" and "supenseful" get thrown around in a happy-go-lucky way. For the first time in years I have read a book that makes me understand what is meant by those words. This is a thoroughly researched book about Jim Jones and the sinister People's Temple written by one of the journalists wounded that fateful November 18, 1978, on the Port Kaituma airstrip in Guyana. It delves on the slow but sure degradation of the psyche of both the incredibly talented minister Jones and his loyal followers. Impossible to put down.
To say that this is "the seminal book on the story of Jonestown" is an understatement. Tim Reiterman not only writes an exhaustive book about Jim Jones, The People's Temple, Jonestown, and the mass suicide, but he was a part of the story. He was shot on November 18, 1978 when he traveled to Guyana to see Jonestown, the infamous day of the mass suicide.If you want to learn everything there is to know about Jonestown, this is the book.
Read this after hearing about it on a msnbc special about Jonestown. Fascinating to see how this man could convince 900+ people to kill themselves. Reading it you think that you would NEVER fall for this, but some of the people who did thought the same thing.
The most complete history of Jim Jones and the People's Temple. Reiterman, a journalist who was shot on the airstrip outside Jonestown, delves deep into Jone's personal history and the events that led to unspeakable evil. A truly chilling journey into the mind and methods of a mad man.
The VeilThe Last Days
