https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/514370.The_Berenstain_Bears_New_Baby
I know the writers are making the whole birthing thing a non-issue, but I feel like they were focusing on the older child and the experience of all the sudden have a new sibling in the house.
So, despite the weirdness of Mama having a baby so quickly and seemingly easily during the day, I thought it was a good book.
They handled a new baby weirdly and despite that, I think there is still some truth in the story.The kids love the Bears and they gave this story 5 stars.
Like I said, I think the point was the introduction of sister bear.
This is another one my mom got me from a book fair. I liked the Berenstain Bears and had quite a few in the series. I was always really fascinated with the mom’s outfit. The blue and those polka dots!
So funny, to see what was "allowed" and "not allowed" over time. For example, this book was clearly published earlier, so there is a one page explanation that Mama Bear's belly was growing. Years later, when THE BIRDS AND THE BEES came out, Sister Bear goes to the OB with Mama to see the baby bear in her belly.
2009: This is a cute book in itself and I enjoyed it when I was a child, but it gives a pretty bad portrayal of how new babies actually come and what life with them is like.2018: My son is growing out of his toddler bed, and I remembered this book and had to get it from the library. It's much better as a "my bed is too small" book than it is as a "we're having a baby" book.
The Berenstain’s do a fantastic job of having Papa and Mama Bear talk Brother through the process of a baby on the way and not just pointing out the adjustments that he will have to make but also the new responsibilities and pride he can take in being an older brother.
The trip back to bear country to see the newest edition will give young kiddos a bit of a heads up and might help them adjust a tad bit to having a new brother or sister, especially if they have been an only child up to this point.
Berenstain Bears are one of the best children's series that exist!
And when he gets home, his old bed is given to his new baby sister.
There was no discussion with Small Bear beforehand that he was going to have a new baby sister.
Additionally, nowadays it's generally advised that if you're going to hand down the old crib that you dismantle it well before the baby arrives so that your older child doesn't feel directly displaced.I don't think this book is going to be very useful to anybody expecting a second child.Incidentally, how much older than Sister is Brother bear?
Considering I became a big sister six times, my family's copy has probably long since been worn out from overuse.As other reviewers have noted, if you are looking for a book that provides a clear and concise "explanation" for how to be a big sibling or what new babies are like, then there are plenty of other books that can provide that.
Personally, I appreciate this book as it is, because it's not preachy.
It's not a "newborn FAQ" in book form.
By the time they arrive back at the house with the new bed, his new sister is waiting.
This is the 13th Berenstain Bears book that I have read.
This book is very weird.
The father missed the birth of his daughter because he was out chopping wood with his son.
The mother gave birth to a baby and it didn't even seem to affect her at all.
The baby is big enough to sleep in a regular bed just hours after it is born.
Weird.
I mean, I know they're bears and not humans, but still.
How is a 2 year old considered old enough to go out and chop wood with papa bear?
For those of you adding a second child, this book is a really good book to help child one grasp the concept. We read this book every few days once we were 9 months along with our second, and our 2 year old made a lot of connections from the book when her sister was born. Wish they would have handled the actual birth somehow as Mama is back in the same outfit and assuming she carried Brother's bed into the nursery while Papa was absent during the birthing process. Oh well. Still a good read for the kids.
The. Hell.
Apparently its perfectly acceptable to leave your PREGNANT AND SOON TO BE IN LABOR WIFE alone while you go chop wood.
Do Stan and Jan really think that the best time to tell the kid about the new baby is the day it shows up?
Was Brother's name really "Small" when he was little?
Did they really make such a poor naming decision that they felt the need to change it?
Did they have to fill out paperwork at the courthouse?
I would have rather read the book "Berenstain Bears Fill Out Legal Paperwork To Change Small Bear's Name to Something Just As Stupid".
I'm not too big on picture books but this one was okay. The book teaches a lesson using the little bear cubs and the parent bears. The cubs do as they please and then Papa and Mama Bear teach them a lesson. The lesson they learn is something kids should read so that they'll learn also and understand if they ever come to being taught a lesson. I would recommend this to a first grader or someone who is near that age group because the book was written for kids learning to read.
One of the few "coping with a new sibling" books that was on our okay-list when our younger children were born. No trauma, no biting the baby, just Papa Bear and Small Bear, a.k.a Brother, going out together to build a bigger bed--because when he gets home, New Baby Sister will be in the little bed.
If you are trying to find a book to help with the addition of a new baby in your home, this isn't one I would suggest. But it is a fun story to read otherwise (as long as you don't over analyze it) and my son really enjoys it.
Brennan wants to read this over and over; I'm hoping that's a positive sign that he's going to be excited about welcoming his baby sister in a few weeks.
Of all the things I've said or done to get my 3 year old ready for a baby brother, this book has done the most to help him understand things. I love when books do more than just tell a story.
The characters are a Papa Bear, Mama Bear, and Small (male) Bear, and a new baby (female) bear is born near the end of the story.
Throughout the story, Small Bear appears to be somewhat naive, and his parents largely keep him in the dark as to what is happening.
Meanwhile, Papa Bear has the more adventurous job of retrieving honey from a tree full of angry bees, and chopping wood in the forest to build a new bed for Small Bear.
This book is almost overly-traditional, compared to other picture books of its time, which makes me suspect that it might be a reaction to the rejection of traditional family structures in children’s literature of the 1970s.
The Berenstain Bears’ New Baby tells how Small Bear got a new, larger bed–-very useful, since Sister Bear was soon to be born, and could use his old bed.This is a standard kind of children’s book–-what happens when a child gains a younger sibling? I like this one a bit better than  Thumper’s Little Sisters , which I reviewed earlier.The story begins with Small Bear waking up and finding he is too big for his bed, so he and Papa Bear go out to make him a new bed, and Mama Bear pats her belly and
, which I reviewed earlier.The story begins with Small Bear waking up and finding he is too big for his bed, so he and Papa Bear go out to make him a new bed, and Mama Bear pats her belly and says “You’ve outgrown that snug little bed just in time!” And ‘just in time’ it is, indeed.
By the time Papa Bear and Small Bear get back, Mama Bear’s belly is quite a bit smaller, and a baby is lying in his old bed.
Listen up, parents: kids will emulate that which they admire.
This applies to the younger age group as well: if you read them an interesting story (with good characters) instead of this preachy garbage, they will be more likely to behave nicely.BERENSTEIN BEARS is boring.
It's a run-of-the-mill story about some bears who get a baby.
Its only point is to spoon-feed kids moral lessons, not to offer a fun story.
Those were MUCH more entertaining, but they also carried lessons I was more likely to follow because a character I admired followed them too.
The story goes into all the fun that "small bear" has with his mama and papa and how much he likes having his own room.
One morning, "Small Bear" woke up and he had grown too big for his bed.
"Small Bear" and Papa head out to find wood to make a new bed...and Mama proclaims that he outgrew his bed just in time as she pats her pregnant belly.
"Small Bear" realizes that he has been able to use less and less room on Mama's lap.
Now "Small Bear" is a big brother!
The latest read of The Berenstain Bears' NEW BABY (1995) was read immediately following The Berenstain Bears' MOVING DAY (1981).
Here's the contradiction that had my little boy hollering out loud, "No, he didn't!!!"In Moving Day Brother Bear is referred to as "Brother Bear" but is an only child.
Second page in reads, "They lived in a large tree which Papa Bear had hollowed out and made into a house."I wonder what my little guy will think when he learns about the third child "Honey Bear" and how she comes about and disappears.
It starts pre-Sister Bear, there is only Small Bear aka Brother Bear and one morning all of a sudden he outgrows his baby bed.
So he and Papa Bear go out into the woods to build a new bigger bed, and Mama Bear waves from the door of the treehouse and says to herself "Just in time, yes, just in time" and pats her belly (which just looks as big as a normal bear belly).
Wow, just in time!" and no one questions how Sister Bear came to be in the bed, like where did she come from?
Stan and Jan Berenstain were already successful cartoonists for magazines and adult humor books when they began writing children's books.
The first story starring the bear family, The Big Honey Hunt, appeared in 1962.
What began as an idea sparked by their young sons' love of reading has become over the years arguably the best-selling children's book series ever.The Berenstain Bears stories have expanded to include picture books, beginning readers, and chapter books--even a hit TV show on PBS.
The Bear family has expanded over the years as well.
The Berenstain Bears series is one of the biggest children series' in this world today.
I personally have read probably 200 different stories all on the Berenstain Bears.
This particular short story welcomes the birth of a new baby bear into the family.
With this new addition comes things that need to be adjusted accordingly.
Mama and Papa Berenstain know that it's going to be hard to adjust to having a newborn baby around the house (mainly for safety precautions).
Knowing that, they help out there only son on the adjustments he must make to accomodate for a newborn to ensure it's safe.
This picture book tells the story of the bear family who is about to welcome a new member to the family.
Brother is forced to adjust what he is used to and be a good brother to his brand new baby sister.
They are able to relate directly and this book could help to open a conversation among the students about families and the different kinds of families that each student comes from.
Also, if a child has parents that are expecting a second child, this might be a good thing that could help them get into the mindset of an older sibling.
a better name for the book would be "bear outgrows his bed", because it seems like the bulk of the story is about the bear being too big for his bed, and then the father building a new one.
it's the last 2 pages where it is like "and oh yeah it's a damn good thing because while you were in the woods making a bed for a few hours, the mother had a baby (by herself!
and she is already up and about and looks fantastic!) and put her in your old bed".
Small Bear outgrew his old bed, so he and Papa Bear went to build a new bed.
During this process, Papa Bear explained that Small Bear would be getting a little Sister soon!
By the time Small Bear and Papa Bear made it home, Small Bear's bed was moved and a little baby sister laid in his bed in the next room.
the main themes of this picture book are growing up and becoming an older sibling.
If I were to use this book in a class setting I would have the students draw pictures of how each family member felt during different parts of the story.
Yes, he was outgrowing it anyway, but I still don't think I necessarily want to introduce a new baby as "baby is coming, so you give things up for the good of the family!" (even if, um, that's kinda true).
Anyway, for that reason it's not my favorite for introducing the concept of a baby on the way, but it IS one of my favorites of all of the Berenstain Bear books.
You can tell that it's older than the cheesy "bears learn a lesson" ones I grew up with in the 80s, and I much prefer this one.
I read all of these when I was little. I would go to the library each week, take those little baskets they had and pile it up with Berenstain Bear and Babar the elephant. Ahh good old days.
This is one of my favorite Berenstain Bears book because it holds a powerful message that is very helpful especially for children who are going to be the older brother or sister for the first time.
This tells the story of when the bear family welcomed its newest member: sister bear and it tells of how the members of the family especially brother bear change their lives and get accustomed to having a new member in the family.LE: After the story you can have a discussion with the class about if any of the children have any younger siblings and what that feels like and what they do.
