https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852505.Black_Money
A young girl from a good background becomes involved with a mysterious Frenchman at the country club, and her ex-fiancee hires Lew Archer to discover if the Frenchman is an impostor.
Soon the Frenchman seems to be connected to an earlier death labeled as a suicide, and then the bodies begin to pile up.
As usual, Archer must discover what happened in the past in order to understand the evil which continues to ruin the lives of the young here and now.
I particularly liked the character of the "Frenchman" Morel, a Gatsby-like figure chasing a distinctly West Coast version of the American Dream.
Seemingly harmless investigation soon takes a very dark turn - again and again: When it comes to classic noir one of the staples of the genre is to have a bleak depressing ending.
If you think you know how it ends before reading let me assure you: this is Ross Macdonald book we are talking about which means you will not be able to predict what will happen due to a usual high number plot twists, red herrings, etc.While this novel is not as good as eleventh installment of the series (The Chill) which I consider to be the best, it still holds very well on its own.
Rating: 3* of five2018 UPDATE still no news and nothing is not good news now.An antique now, a re-read launched because Ethan and Joel Coen are set to write a screen adaptation.
It's barely noticeable by the standards that the fiftyish Lew would know.The easy ones were nearly always trouble: frigid or nympho, schizy or commercial or alcoholic, sometimes all five at once.I admit that I flinched a bit at this.
It was a different time indeed.Macdonald's takedowns of consumerism and vapidity in US culture still ring true, and his damn-close-to-magical-realism coincidences are, for all the strain they put on one's credulity, a huge heap of fun to read.
In ‘Blood Simple’, ‘Miller’s Crossing’ and even ‘The Big Lebowski’ The Coens have demonstrated their brilliance with the hard-boiled genre, and there are no better hands to guide MacDonald to the screen for the first time in over forty years.
He is our guide through murder and treachery, he is our moral compass, but he is a compass who understands that North-East is sometimes as good as North.Here Archer is hired by a jilted fiancé to find out all he can about the ex-lover's new man.
"The Chill", "The Far Side of the Dollar" and "Black Money" are all intricate, character-driven, detective stories, but except for the constancy of Archer, each couldn't be more different.
It has great characters, great action and a plot that kept the reader surprised (described on the cover as the most intricate in an American detective story ever.) I gave it a 4-4.5 rating.
All I can do is describe why I think this book is a great read.The story starts off slowly; it's a mundane investigation to discover who and what a wealthy foreigner is.
When I read The Chill, I thought that was Macdonald at his "peak".
It is a book taut and rich, both in its writing and in its plotting -- it is virtually flawless -- and its study of character shows no false tracks that I could discern.His conscious and deliberate use of peripeteia (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peripeteia), moreover, masterfully handled as always, show *formally* what one already grasps intuitively, that the human condition is, in Millar's eyes, often an utter and wasteful tragedy..."Life was short and sweet, I thought, sweet and short." And yet people ruin it with their obsessions and stupidities.This one is simply a gem.
A debonair Frenchman that appears out of nowhere and sweeps a young socialite off her feet, her glut
This is an excellent entry in Ross Macdonald's series of novels about private eye Lew Archer.
This one has elements of Macdonald's recurrent theme of dark family secrets, but it spreads its concerns a little broader than that.
Archer is hired to find out the truth about a man who has swept a wealthy young woman off her feet.
As always with Macdonald, guilt and the fear of shame play a heavy role in matters.
Macdonald isn't as colorful a writer, generally, as his two colleagues atop the heap of private eye fiction, Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett, but he never fails to tell a compelling story.
Ich mag ja die Figur des Privatdetektives Lew Archer, der Mann ist kein Schwätzer, sondern schreitet zur Tat, beziehungsweise zur Befragung, ganz direkt, hier und da ein wenig überlegen, nicht unfreundlich, aber auch nicht gerade kameradschaftlich, immer stringent und irgendwie eine Autoritätsperson.
Erinnert mich immer ein wenig an Don Draper, die Hauptfigur aus der TV-Serie "Mad Men".
Nur das Lew Archer weniger trinkt.
Ansonsten dominiert in "Schwarzgeld" der Zeitgeist, die 60er Jahre in Kalifornien zwischen der konservativen älteren Generation und der nach Freiheit strebenden jüngeren Generation, das ist hier der Unterton der Geschichte, die sich im wesentlichen um Reichtum und Armut dreht, moralisch wie monetär.
One of the better books in the Lew Archer series!
"Black Money" is Macdonald's version of "The Great Gatsby." It's all about unfulfilled dreams, hopes, and promises.It all starts with a young man who hires Lew Archer to investigate a young man who he suspects of not being who he claims to be.
I really like that Macdonald has continued to age Archer and the story with the changing times.
She didn't frown very hard because that gave girls wrinkles and besides I might kill her and she didn't want to die with a frown on her lovely face.""Still holding on to my hand she rose and towed me out onto the dance floor.
If so, it's kind of an odd one for them, in that there's not a lot of action necessarily, and the story is somewhat convoluted (maybe not the right word), and as is often the case with Macdonald, reaches into the past quite a bit.Fat rich college kid Peter hires Archer to prevent the girl he's in love with from marrying someone he doesn't trust, and who he thinks will not be good for her.
A pretty engrossing novel, and I am looking forward to seeing what the Coens will do with it.It's to Macdonald's credit that when he's describing his characters and Archer's attitude towards them, he doesn't get cynical.
A top-notch detective story with an elaborate plot, hard-boiled protagonist, and all the elements of great crime fiction.
In Lew Archer, Macdonald creates a funnel for the audience to peer into the lives of the inhabitants of high-class, 1960's Southern California with an objective eye, while Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe is more subjective, loading the prose up with his own viewpoints and opinions of the other characters.
While I tend to prefer the romanticism of Chandler, Macdonald proves that he belongs among the greatest authors of hard-boiled crime fiction.
I feel like I have read a bunch of Ross Macdonald and never like his books but for some stupid reason I keep forcing myself to try.
I bought this book because it had a hip, silly, massively appealing cover, but I find the characters extremely boring and the writing style kind of terrible and I'm just going to quit on it right now and that's that.Yeah I know tons of people think Ross MacDonald is the greatest thing since hard boiled eggs.
It seems like I might be one of them, but I tried and I'm not, which I'll do my best to remember the next time I come across one of his books.
A typically satisfying Ross Macdonald mystery.
It's been years since I read this, and I found Ross Macdonald's prose as captivating as ever this time around.The story concerns a case in which Lew Archer is hired to investigate a mysterious, possibly French/possibly not man who's making a play for the client's love interest.But, of course, things aren't as simple as they're presented to Archer, up front.This book is just one of many that shows how Macdonald took the Raymond Chandler approach to writing and not only made it his own, but elevated it!
BLACK MONEY popped up in a list of top ten noir, and I added it to my favorites for two reasons: taut dialogue and superb metaphors and similes.
These might not matter to readers who want a twisted and heart-stopping plot, but for me, I want an exceptional writer too.
Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer comes to life because he knows when to shut up and listen, plus ask questions in a way that gets info.
He's cool, never aggravated, and the dialogue couldn't be better because of it.
Macdonald's use of metaphor and simile boosts his novels into literary territory, even though the plot remains solidly hard boiled.
Are the Coens still doing a movie version of this? Insane idea
Well, in this country “hardest dick” is likely to sell more books than a humane character.The events of the plot take place mainly in Montevista, a fictional Southern California town, a place where one can meet “maharajas, Nobel prize winners, and billionaires.” Lew Archer's client is Peter Jamieson, a rich family's young heir, who looks “like money about three generations removed from its source.” He has known Ginny Fablon since childhood, has always been infatuated with her and wanted her for his wife.
Archer is called in to investigate the background of a newcomer to the exclusive beachside community of Montevista.
Archer's investigation takes a detour from the start when he bumps shoulders with another snoop whom he witnesses getting muscled by their target, getting his expensive camera trampled to bits, then getting threatened by a handgun through the window of the Bentley.
Frenchie obviously values his privacy and he's willing to kill for it.A seven-year old suicide, a secretive but gossipy community of established types, and the inevitable host of parvenus drawn to the smell of money lead Archer along a winding path of discovery.
I’ve recently read a Lew Archer short story which I thought was excellent; so I wanted to read one of the novels.
What I’ve found is Ross Macdonald is trying to be like Dashiell Hammitt or Raymond Chandler but his is missing key elements that made their stories interesting.
Archer was decent protagonist and I think the book was jammed packed with sex and violence but without the twists and wit it just doesn’t seem the same; maybe even boring in parts.
I might try some more of his books, because the Lew Archer short story really was a thrill to read and maybe his other books will be too.
Solid archetypal noir from the mid-1960s. Ross MacDonald might not have invented anything new when it came to mysteries, but he took what Chandler created and compressed it down to beautiful, minimalist art. Here he's playing in his usual stomping ground: among the unhappy rich in Southern California, uncovering their intricate secrets. Unlike "The Galton Case" or "The Chill", this one doesn't have a real blockbuster surprise ending, but the case is wound up in a way which feels satisfying nonetheless. If you've read all of Chandler, you'll want to read all of MacDonald.
Black Money is an excellent entry in Ross Macdonald's series of novels about private eye Lew Archer from the fictional California town of Santa Teresa. It has the usual Macdonald recurrent theme: the dark and twisted family secrets of mid-20th century's 1%, but it spreads its concerns a little broader, and deeper in this one. Initially, Archer's hired to find out the truth about a man who has swept a wealthy young woman off her feet. As always with Macdonald, deep-seated guilt and the fear of shame play heavily in its plot.
"I caught the housekeeper glaring at the highball and the bottle as if they represented everything she hated. She had violent black eyes, and she looked like a good hater."Masterpiece. Not so much for the complex and clever plotting but mostly for its execution. So elegant, natural and effortless. Stuff like this separates crime novels from simple mystery pulps and masters from mediocre authors. Simply flawless and mandatory re-reading!More here (review includes spoilers!):http://a60books.blogspot.ie/2012/09/b...
Heard good things and wanted to like this, but I just couldn’t get passed the out dated premise. I understand that most male written vintage crime fiction requires a certain “men of their time” mindset. That being said, “call in Lew Archer because this man’s skin is too dark to be French and my ex-girlfriend is too dumb to notice” was just too much for me.
America might be the perfect place to re-invent yourself and win the hand of that princess on the hill, but sooner or later your past will inevitably return and claim its due. Mid-60's Lew Archer investigates a phony Frenchman, a suicide, murder, a possible kidnapping and blackmail among the country-club set in Southern California.
The year is 1966 and Archer is hired by a young man, Peter Jamieson, whose fiancee, Ginny Fablon, has just deserted him for a mysterious somewhat older man, a Frenchman new to the area, Francis Martel.
Important Characters, alive and dead:Peter Jamiesen, young man from a wealthy background just jilted byVirginia (Ginny) Fablon, daughter ofMarietta Fablon, not so wealthy, because her husbandRoy Fablon committed suicide seven years earlier.Francis Martel, mysterious Frenchman recently arrived in the area who claims to be a political exile.Harry Hendricks, not too competent detective investigating Martel.Mrs. Bagshaw, upper crust long time member of the Tennis Club who supported Martel’s membership.Mr. Jamiesen, Peter’s father.Vera, housekeeper for the Jamiesens.Dr. George Sylvester, knows the Fablons well.Mrs. Audry Sylvester, knows her husband.Prof.
This might be my favorite of the Lew Archer series so far.
Macdonald is probably one of the best crime fiction writer out there, much more accessible than Hammett or Chandler, Archer is straight forward with great descriptions of California.
There is a little bit of a format, most of the people that hire Archer are upper class, entangled in extramarital affairs, and there has been a number that revolve around boarding schools, colleges, or other places that are supposed to watch over the future generations.Black Money read and had the drama of an afternoon soap opera, but I felt this added to the prose the detective on his 22nd mission if you've read the series in order, including My Name is Archer, the short story collection.Black Money starts at a Tennis Club, goes through the world of the language department at a local university, and see Archer finding out about way too many skeletons in way too many closets.
Black Money is yet another fine mystery with plenty of twists.
This is my third Ross MacDonald and I've loved each of them, I will be reading more.This mystery started with a call for help from a jilted "lover" to help stop his girlfriend from running off with a mysterious stranger who claims that he's a French aristocrat in hiding from the DeGaulle government.
Peter, her jilted boyfriend hired Lew Archer to get the "goods" on the mysterious, Martel.
From this fairly normal circumstance, Mr. MacDonald manages to take the reader on a twisted and tortured path through the abnormal psyches of those involved.
After I finished, I read other reviews, many of which suggested that this was at the top of MacDonald's novels. I can see that. This novel involves a young man who hires Archer to stop his "girlfriend" from eloping with a stranger who claims to on the run from the French government, who want to arrest and imprison him. As Archer investigates, he discovers that a series of murders from the past connect to this case. I was as surprised by this ending as any MacDonald novel I have read. Recommended for mystery lovers who like psychological, literary mysteries.
