https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56961.The_Devil_s_Advocate
In fact, Monsignor Blaise Meredith is a British Roman Catholic priest living in Rome and working as auditor to the Sacred Congregation of Rites, personal assistant to the prefect himself.
However, what The Devil’s Advocate lacks in speed, it more than compensates for in depth and beauty.Highly recommended as a beautiful tribute to the priesthood for this Year For Priests.><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><Another incredible book...
In addition to this book made into a West German film in 1977 starring John Mills, which seems to be unavailable -- more's the pity -- Morris West also wrote The Shoes of the Fisherman which is still around.
Face to face with eternity, the priest has had to admit that he has lived a lukewarm life, one without passion.I have read this before and am looking forward to this second reading and the chance to discuss it with fellow Catholics.
I have just begun and am immediately struck by how well West brings us into the atmosphere of the Italian countryside, not to mention the clerical attitudes of the time.Finished and I really cannot express adequately what a masterpiece this book is in so many ways, but first and foremost in examining the good and bad in human nature (often within the same person) and our institutions, the depth of the human soul, and our capacity for faith and change.
I'm really looking forward to discussing this one next week at Elements of Faith book club.
I picked this up on a whim-- actually, I saw it for sale for $1 and decided what the heck-- It turned out to be a real page-turner, it's just really well-written and enjoyable...
One of the reviews on the inside cover say it somehow manages to be as exciting as a murder mystery, and I think that's right, which is surprising given its about a priest who goes to a small Italian village to decide whether a recently diseased man ought to be canonized.
But anyways, it's a book I'd read again.
Morris West's--The Devil's Advocate--is a perennial literary classic thriller that is an intermixture of politics and religion, which explores the behind-the-process investigative scenes of Catholic saint making.
But that is really only the backdrop to the totality of the story, for the real narrative deals with the world weary and cynical English devil's advocate, Fr. Blaise Meredith, a man who has been informed that due to an illness, his life expectancy has been shortened.
But he is raised up not by a living soul, but a departed one, a martyred witness whose cause for canonization he must investigate.
This book would possibly have more appeal for Catholics but is an interesting story for most people.
The story kept me reading.Giacomo Nerone, a man who lived for a season in a small Italian village, has been nominated for sainthood.
Meredith is also a man rapidly dying of cancer and appalled by the emptiness of his life.The characters are a varied group and held my interest.
Some readers today may find West's portrayal of the gay man offensive and very traumatic.The point of view is sometimes omniscient, other times through various characters.

Is he a saint or a military deserter, father of an illegitimate child?Blaise Meredith, mortally ill English priest, of an apparently cold character, sent by Vatican as the devil’s advocate to examine the saintliness of GiacomoAurelio, Bishop of Valenta, befriends Blaise and expresses unusual intellectual and human understanding coupled with practical instincts in agriculture, etc.
Nina Sanduzzi, a simple village woman loved by Giacomo who becomes his loverPaolo Sanduzzi, bastard son of Giacomo and NinaNicholas Black, artist, twin, frustrated, angry.Padrona, the Contessa, also frustrated in life and loves but the resident of the big estate.
The only two that got my attention were Meredith and Giacomo -- but I think this last one lacks flaws and real human personality.
I mean, Meredith was supposed to be the Devil's Advocate, right?
I mean, when Meredith arrives at Gemelo Minore, didn't people say it would be hard to discover the true story behind Giacomo Nerone's name?
This fact annoyed me and had me waiting for some real psychology behind those plain characters that could explain that plain story.
Well, I'm gonna say I finished the book still waiting for that...
A very satisfying and very dated novel.
And the pathologizing sexism toward a major female character is intended to be sympathetic and sexually affirming, even though it is nothing of the sort....Nothing like the play of historical specificities to make one wonder about one's own assumptions in good ways I think.
Hard to be too complacent about one's own dogmas on sexuality, parenting, spiritual goodness, after reading this: both its intended message but also strangely it's own failure, specificity, and weirdness.And that is what makes it so satisfying: that and few places that allow for a good cry.
Este libro engaña a los no iniciados, no es libro de la pelicula homónima, sino que es un relato de un sacerdote que funge como "abogado del diablo" en la iglesia católica, es un puesto donde un sacerdote pone en tela de juicio los milagros de un beato o santo a proclamar y verifica que no sean causa de la casualidad o no sea un milagro verdadero.
Esta es la ultima asignacion del sacerdote ya que sufre de cancer de estómago y el obispo piensa que hacer este trabajo le vendrá bien.
Really enjoyed the plot. The metamorphosis that Blaise Meredith went through from the beginning all the way to the end was really fascinating. Morris West explores a post-WW1 life of a bishop and inside the church and the process one must go through to be considered a saint. Also liked the flashback scenes, where we learn the life of Giacomo Nerone from the people that interacted with him. The books explores a lot of religious aspects as well. Overall very good book, main characters very well developed and West lets you make contact with every one of them.
This is my new favorite book. It has amazing characterization. The story is excellent. The process of becoming a saint in this time of the great author, Morris West, is what we all know best. It is the Devil's Advocate versus the potential saint. This is really high drama. Throw in the Second World War in Italy as the back drop, and it is a perfect storm. It keeps turning corners in unexpected ways and keeps you dangling. It challenges faith and lack of it, smells and bells, and the disheartened, all at one time. A truly great book.
An old favorite that I first read 30 years ago. I remember having only a few pages left when my bus stop came up..and running into a stall in an empty bathroom at work to finish it in peace, as I was crying. Its attitudes are a bit dated now although I love the mid-century style. Part Leon Uris, part Graham Greene...historical fiction with a Catholic point of view. I was surprised to remember a line from the ending, word for word, 30 years later!
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I found it to be a beautifully crafted exploration of the meaning of faith, mercy, holiness and human frailty.
The frank "born this way" treatment of Mr. Black's homosexuality surprised me and struck me as a nuanced and highly progressive characterization for its era - especially for a book focused so explicitly on matters of faith.
The humanity of all principal characters unfolded so beautifully and tragically.
Would definitely recommend it to others who enjoy books that center on spiritual themes with a strong humanist slant.
Very dated novel with West's Catholic sensibilities to the fore; in this instance a Vatican official investigating a case for sainthood discovers the prospective saint had fathered a male child by a local woman. Said child is now under threat by the village's resident homosexual - an English artist named "Nicholas Black" ie, the devil himself. The vatican official takes it upon himself to save the boy from a fate worse than death, surely. 'Nuff said. Some good dialogue and characterisation in the early parts can't save this one.
"The Devil's Advocate" is a fact-finding person who seeks the truth in the first step toward beatification in the Roman Catholic Church. I think.Fr. Blaise Meridith is sent to a small town in Italy to interview people during WWII, about a man calling himself Giacomo Nerone. There is much politics in the Vatican, Father Meridith is very "good" but has been treated badly, or at least like a hermit, notwithstanding his immanent terminal illness, and the people he is to interview are suspicious. But he perseveres, kindly, thoroughly, gently, and grows, some, as a result. A very good read.
✭✭✭✭
Fantastic
The main character, Blaise Meredith, is totally cerebral, and, having spent his life in reviewing cases for beatification, essentially incapable of understanding human nature and circumstances - sin and virtue are his concerns, and they have been reduced to intellectual abstractions.
The Contessa, who could be seen as only a woman who liked varied lovers today, is embittered in that Giacomo rejected her and preferred a peasant woman.
The plot is far less about holiness than about the intricate depths of human nature.
Although some aspects of this mid-20th century novel are dated, particularly the portrayals of the gay painter Nicholas Black and sexually frustrated, neurotic chatelaine Anne de Sanctis, in the end i gave it four stars.The central question on which the plot turns - was Giacomo Nerone a saint?
- is overshadowed by the story of Fr. Blaise Meredith, the eponymous Vatican official who discovers something of his own humanity as he investigates Nerone and comes to terms with his own swiftly passing mortality.
In the end, the compelling nature of Meredith's struggles more than compensated for the almost campy de Sanctis/Black story lines.
I very much enjoyed reading this book with its solid character development and lengthy intelligent dialogue. The book made a powerful statement that homosexuals were a product of nurture. I completed analysis of this as linked: https://ozhamada-observes.blogspot.co...
This book was thought provoking. I have been thinking about the meaning of life and God and faith in him. It is true the faith is a gift and without it the world is in chaos. But this book also was very realistic about our human nature and I enjoyed it very much. It is a book whose characters were realistic and very well developed.
Un retrato de la vida rural de la posguerra en Italia que resulta a la vez desgarrador y tremendamente verosímil. Sólo mencionar una cita, del protagonista condenado desde la página uno."Luego, su nombre será sólo una mota de polvo soplada por el viento en el desierto de los siglos". Grabada a fuego.
O livro traz algumas questões interessantes, mas achei as conclusões bem rasas, bem datadas. Mesmo com toda a questão da religiosidade e da Igreja Católica já prevista pela sinopse, eu esperava mais tolerância e respeito com aqueles que vivem uma vida diferente da proposta pela Igreja, coisa que não aconteceu. Por isso me soa bem datado. Mas vale a leitura para conhecer o autor, ao menos.
I went into this book knowing nothing about it (I thought it was a story about lawyers), and surprise, surprise, (given it's about the Catholic Church) I thought it was really interesting.
really a 4.5
I started reading this book out of boredom.
Guacamole Nerone was for sure a true intrigue during my reading, I wanted to know who was this man and what was special about him, but that was not the most important part of the story.
Indeed, I didn't find the story itself amazing.
At some point it was even kind of boring, I remember putting down the book for some days and I had to force myself to finish it.
This book, as I see it, is a journey of self discovery.
I Liked the last part of the book because it made it all clear.
O sacerdote, porém, conseguirá descobrir sobre a vida de Giácomo através de depoimentos das pessoas que com ele conviveram, inclusive sua ex-esposa, Nina, com a qual gerou um filho, Paolo.A cidade também conta com a presença da Condessa de Sanctis e do pintor Nicholas Black, importantes personagens no decorrer da história, que é cheia de intrigas políticas e pessoais, mostrando um lado obscuro da personalidade do ser humano.É um bom livro, embora não seja cativante.
Entre ellos varios de Morris West, (inclusive le regalé "El Legado de Palombini") hace muchos años; pero nunca me había interesado por leerlos.
Es muy bueno, ahora entiendo el porque a mi mamá le gustaban tanto sus libros; pero entiendo también el porque hace años no me llamaba la atención.
Si no es así les contaré a modo de resumen que "El Abogado del Diablo" tratá sobre un emisario del papá que es enviado a investigar una posible beatificación de Giacomo Nerone, un fallecido al que muchos atribuyen milagros en la región sur de Italia.
(Though I never could find a copy of any of his other works anywhere around which is a pity.)In one broad stroke, this book this book placed before me a story about the moral questions that one faces in life, about hope, about personal growth, acceptance and transformation.You have lived your life by principle, isolated from the vagaries of the world, and now as you stumble painfully to an underwhelming close you're picked up and placed at the center of naked human strife and suffering.
