https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10138607-habibi
The protagonist, Dodola, spends probably 60% of her story time having sex.
Yeah.There is a lot of rape in this book, starting with the first few pages when nine-year-old Dodola is deflowered by her adult husband, and it only gets worse from there.
Just about every female character spends most of her time being topless, and Dodola herself is topless or just butt-ass naked for about 80% of the story.
However, I support equal-opportunity nudity, which means that if I have to spend my reading time looking at boobs, there had better be some dicks to balance things out.
A couple weeks ago, I read and reviewed Chester Brown's  Paying For It , a book singularly concerned with separating love from sex. Brown forwards the idea that fewer problems arise if we segregate sex as completely as we can from the relational sphere. He does this to such an extent that he proposes that sex is a pleasure best paid for and made entirely transactional. It's not spoiling anything to say that Brown, as he represents himself in the book, is more wholly concerned with sex than he is
We watch his philosophy play itself out and wonder: is it enough?Craig Thompson's latest work, Habibi, may function well as a companion piece to Paying For It, only emphasizing the inverse of Brown's work: love that excludes sex.
Still, the compassionate reader won't be able to help investment into their two stories, which are really just one story.In Habibi, Thompson introduces us to his heroine, Dodola, as she is sold into marriage to a scribe who will teach her to read, to understand the power of stories.
For the majority of those within Habibi's narrative landscape, Dodola exists much as Chester Brown's ideal woman—she is merely a receptacle for their sexual advances.
The theme of the story is commodification, consumption, exploitation, and Thompson undermines all of it through his depictions of women.
Dodola is exploited and raped again and again and again in a particularly unsettling manner: you can see that the narrative is grappling with some serious problems through these events, but she's also positioned in repellingly titillating ways as it's happening.
What is not moving and brave is the way Thompson depicts her during this panel - naked, approaching him sexually - and the fact that this compassion manifests as (it's implied) "tending to his needs." And this isn't even to touch the flagrant Orientalism.
G. Willow Wilson, who has a foot in both worlds because she is both Muslim and a graphic novelist, tried similarly, writing, “the sheer dearth of sympathetic Muslim characters in western literature (and the fiercely secular world of comics and graphic novels in particular) makes me want to forgive a few small sins of inauthenticity.” And the beautiful drawings almost sway me before I realize that just because it’s beautiful doesn’t mean it’s okay.But mixing Middle Eastern fairy tales with Qur’anic passages, new-age-y alchemist references, and a constantly naked female protagonist-turned-odalisque makes it apparent that Habibi is Thompson’s attempt to write his own Arabian Nights."http://www.racialicious.com/2011/11/0...
Wow. I guarantee you've never read anything like this book.
I picked up this mind-boggling graphic novel on a whim, and I'll forever be grateful for that.
everything.Habibi tells the tale of Dodola and Zam, refugee child slaves bound to each other by chance, by circumstance, and by the love that grows between them.
oh man, the illustrations were a whole new level of beautiful and vibrant.
I think the above is my all-time favorite piece of drawing from Habibi
If you're interested in buying Habibi, just click on the image below to go through my link.
On the contrary, it focuses on the common threads, on how Christianity and Islam issued forth from the same fountain of knowledge and experience, on how both have their roots in the same burning desert sands that punish the body mercilessly during the day, and turn the eyes towards the high heavens filled with stars during the night.Dodola is a very young girl sold into marriage to an old scribe by her penniless parents.
Habibi might have been set in a fictional country but it was more than clear that it was some warped, stereotypical, and exaggerated portrayal of the Middle East and Arabs/muslims (what with the clothing, the main religion being Islam, the use of Arabic language, the characters being mostly Arab, and the harems, the jinn, the myths and stories told within).-Thompson's idea of Middle Eastern culture was: ALL men are either rapists or slaves, ALL women get raped and have no free will, fathers will happily sell their young daughters for a little bit of money, girls can only resort to prostitution to survive because apparently there's no job opportunities, pretty much all Middle Eastern people live in poor/desperate/unclean conditions, that Arabs believe in slavery and have a booming and very public slave trade, that NO Middle Eastern people have self-respect/morals/intelligence/kindness or compassion, and ALL middle aged/old men are pedophiles and rapists at heart and have no problem fucking young girls.
We spend 672 pages with Dodola and Zam (sometimes also known as Habibi, other times known as Cham*) but, at the end, I can really tell you very little about either character.
With Zam, all I can tell you is that he is in love with Dodola.
Afterwards, she lets Zam have "what he's always wanted~" and they start a sexual relationship.Dodola has no autonomy in Habibi.
I am just sad and very upset, ignorant and shallow orientalism go through this book from start to finish.
The elaborate usage of religious stories that had nothing to do with the ideologies in the book and its storyline that were furthermore exploited sometimes by misinterpretations was just too much for me.
Overall it's overwhelming and not in a good way, as a Muslim woman I feel very offended, and I know these cases did exist in the past but this has nothing to do with the middle east or Arabs or Islam for that matter, Every spoilt culture went through these phases, slavery, child marriages and rape.
There is no question that the storyteller in this case is frightened by and ashamed of his powerful sexual feelings, but his arousal is well within the bounds of normal male sexuality and should, in fact, educate readers about the conflicted emotional trauma that can accompany the physical manifestations of desire.In the years Thompson worked on this book, he learned to appreciate and to write some Arabic script, but never learned to speak.
I can’t recommend this book enough. This graphic novel is a testament to the fact that the physical book should never die. Habibi is a work of art full of Arabic calligraphy, bleeding pages and detailed imagery that is both Arab and African, modern and ancient. And equally as exquisite, compelling and daring is the book’s story of two slaves, one African and one Arab and how the world shapes, destroys, and evolves them. THE Best Book of 2011.
I tried, really really hard I tried, but Habibi has defeated me. I simply cannot help myself, I put Richie Rich's face on the men and Veronica's on the women. Graphic novel remains, for me, a term of art without substantive affect on my vision. To me, they're comic books, and I didn't ever like comic books.So sorry. I'll go now. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.
And because of that, the story is relevant, as regards the treatment of females, of those who are enslaved, and of the Earth itself -- in the latter case, especially, this is a cautionary tale for anyone, anywhere, that should be heeded now, as it's likely a future not too distant.The religious aspect is prominent in this work, sort of becoming a primer on the Qur'an (at least for me), while also noting some similarities and differences as to what the "People of the Book" believe, and revealing the power of stories to one's survival.The relationship at the center of the story is unique, and psychologically acute.
Lemme spend 600 pages tellin' you all about it.Which he does, punching us with his doughy, midwestern, literary fists of obvious, shallow observations, served up with bungling use of religious symbols and sexual violence towards women.
It's like a freshman philosophy major who spent his summer backpacking through the Middle East.Let me save you some time spent reading a comic that ends up collapsing into an Alan-Moore-style series of words in panels (Dave Sim would also be apt) and sum up the morals herein:1.
Christians are like Muslims, except when they're not.It's a pretty book, but about as shallow as ink on paper gets.
Not Thompson's, but the hardcover edition is itself beautifully designed and a pleasure to hold.Unfortunately, I don't think the story is quite equal to the art.
(view spoiler)[I loved Dodola and Zam's relationship on the boat, her stories and her protection.
Unfortunately, I didn't believe that her feelings for him would change from nurturing to romantic.
There's a delicate line at which the truth of the story can spill into salaciousness, and unfortunately Thompson crosses it.
In the end I mostly just loved the stories that Dodola told Zam; I can't truly get on board with a book with this much sexual violence.
As though a trip to Morocco and some library research makes him some kind of expert – perhaps in the same way that every preening college student comes back from his study-abroad trip with a “totally new understanding of the world, man,” but surely not enough to write a 700-page book about it.
Thompson may be trying to humanize a religion, he may be trying to show the shared origins of Islam and Christianity to a world of suspicious xenophobes, but his attempts are weighed down by his insistence on sentiment and cliché, and it’s very difficult to find the honest human story that exists beneath it.All of that is to ignore the successes of this work, which are real and impressive.
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexContent Warning: Rape, Drug Use, Poverty, Sexual Abuse, Genital Mutilation, Prostitution, Violence, RacistThis book broke my heart and stomped on the pieces multiple times.
I did enjoy the characters and story telling but wish I knew this before I decided to read it.
The portrayals of rape was sexualized at times and woman were usually powerless to the authority around them.
But I wouldn't have read this book if I knew the author was inspired by racist views, and used inspiration from a culture to further degrade it to western readers.
The hyperbole behind these elements is so heavy handed and deliberate it honestly reads like Craig Thompson's world view is solely derived from fundamentalist chain emails and Facebook posts from Michele Bachmann's fan-page.Thirdly, the misogyny.
Her various sexual encounters are the focus of this book more than anything, and she is always victim or object, never an actual woman.
Any action she takes or avoids involves solely her sexual viability in one way or another.
And when it comes down to it, no one who takes a bite out of a dog-shit filled Swedish pastry will say 'at least the walnuts on top were great.'
Religion is also an important part in the tale, mostly because even though Islam and Christianity are intertwined, the author makes no clear reference over which is the best, it stands on the fence so to speak.
I just had an issue with the excessive sexual cruelty that Dodola faced throughout the novel, it was too much for my taste, same for Zam. For all the non-stereotypical depictions in this book, these scenes, particularly of Dodola in the harem( she also basically only consents to sex once, all other times were rape), were very stereotyped, and I did not like them, a little bit more of research could have proved the depiction incorrect.
Wow!
I am speechless at the talent Craig Thompson has.
One review called this a masterpiece and I have to agree it truly is.There's a lot of nudity and sexual situations, including prostitution, rape, and castration, so this is a warning for people who are not okay with that.
There is also what I would consider mental incest between the two main characters.Although of the two, I think I still love Blankets more (although at the time I believe I gave it four stars), Habibi is epic in proportion: the story, the design, the artwork.
The artwork is so beautiful and detailed.
It's as if Craig drew this with his sweat, tears, and blood.Superb!
I think  the review from The Guardian really explains my reaction to this book the best. The artwork is beautiful. But the lack of a specific location and time period really weakens the story and characters allowing neither to fully take off nor grow. So instead as I read I kept waiting to fully understand the scope of all that was happening and the reason it was written/drawn as it was only to find nuggets and glimmers without the satisfaction that existed in Blankets' fully developed concept.That being said I was happy to have read this.
There is a lot more to the book than I've let on in the brief summary at the top, after all it is a nearly 700 page book, but the epic scope of this love story is utterly compelling and the way Thompson weaves in aspects of religion and mythology into the contemporary story is flawless.
Having read his previous books, and if you haven't I highly recommend them, I can see aspects of "Good-bye, Chunky Rice" in the book in the way that Dodola and Habibi are separated, pine for each other, and strive to one day meet again.
Whereas Blankets is sort of sweet and simple and anguished, a story of a summer love and all its complications, religious and philosophical and aesthetic, Habibi takes place over decades, and deals with the relationship between Christianity and Islam, environmental disaster...
in other words, I prefer Blankets type stories to long epics, but this is genius, no question.Additional comments months later, 1/17/14: I just saw a review of this that disliked the book and it led me to put it out and mute my views of it.
I also like smaller books typically more than epic tales… so how could I say this was awesome?
O forse erano esagerate le sue ambizioni: essere all’altezza di quella sua magnifica opera precedente.E forse così riesco a spiegarmi la delusione: Thompson ha esagerato, ha voluto a ogni costo stupire, impressionare.Si è talmente sforzato in questa direzione che è andato a raccontare storia e storie che non sono sicuro conosca così bene.
Pagine sovraccariche a cominciare dall’eccesso di lirismo, dall’eccesso nelle figure femminili, che non sono quelle dove Thompson esprime il meglio del suo talento.Alla fine di questo corposo tomo mi sono chiesto se Thompson, che ha impiegato sette anni per quest’opera, sia in fondo riuscito ad andare oltre agli stilemi di certe immagini di orientalisti come questa qui sotto.
There is an incredible amount of knowledge and research behind this book and it shows on every step.Habibi is much more than a story of two slaves – it is full of legends, mysticism, mathematics, ancient philosophers, and deals with environmental issues, struggles of the poor, racism, objectification of women, discrimination and more.There are many strong scenes and the journey of our two protagonists, the escaped slaves Dodola and Zam is filled with struggle, violence and danger on every step of the way.
It is a story of strength and unwavering love, of perseverance and hope in face of adversity.The art is stunning and the wealth of details is staggering – every line, every letter and ornament is unique.
#20 for Jugs & Capes!Holy balls, this book is so phenomenal. I put it on my CCLaP best-of-2011 list, and here's what I said there:My hopes for this one were pretty low, as I'd found  Blankets  to be flaccid and hokey and saccharine and generally pretty boring. Habibi, though, is downright spectacular. The illustrations are absolutely gorgeous, complex and inventive and enthralling. The story is huge and sweeping, a sad tale of two people with insanely awful lives who find each other and save

Gorgeously drawn, but the story itself is bloated, unfocused and occasionally melodramatic and exploitative.
Δεν ξετρελάθηκα....Τα σκίτσα και η ιστορία σίγουρα ήταν ιδιαίτερα ... αλλά μέχρι εκεί... :/(Sorry Γκέλλυ)
Every inch of this was beautiful - the art was perfect - and each character was imperative to the story. I appreciated all 655 pages!
