https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3798.The_River
3.5 rounded up to 4 stars.Rumer Godden's powers of description are so good she made me homesick for a place I've never been, and nostalgic for a childhood I never experienced. A novelette about a season in Harriet's life in India when she makes the transition from child to "real person" status.
A novella about an English child growing up in India, beautifully written and full of evocative description of life in that country. There is no plot and really only one event of any significance. The theme of the book is growing up as experienced by the main character, Harriet, who is absolutely charming. The main interest of the book is the beautiful way it is written. I have only read a few works by Rumer Godden but I will be looking out for more.
Like the garden of Eden it has a tree--a great cork tree--and it also has a snake.In the opening pages we meet Harriet, who longs to be special, to be something great in the world.
So Harriet dreams, writes in her secret book and spends long hours communing with her cork tree and the river.
Captain John finds healing in the garden and in the company of the children.
And perhaps there is more....Harriet notices how often, and how carefully, John looks at Bea. The story unfolds over one winter as the garden blooms with the cooling weather.
Adaptada al cine por Jean Renoir en 1951, El río es una de las obras más conocidas de Rumer Godden, prolífica escritora británica que se crió junto a sus tres hermanas en la remota India colonial, donde su padre trabajaba para una compañía naviera.
La llegada a casa del capitán John, un soldado convaleciente que se recupera de sus heridas tanto físicas como emocionales, dispara la curiosidad insaciable de Harriet, poeta en ciernes, quien no duda en acribillar a su interlocutor con toda clase de impertinencias a las que John contesta casi siempre con su aridez característica.
Para la escritora británica, crecer no es tanto un simple cambio como un auténtico umbral que separa la vida de la muerte.
Her brother is one of the two "littles" (Vickie a round cherub is the other) and this leaves Harriet with a cork tree, her favorite place in a "hole" and knowing that it will all soon change.
Yet it leaves Harriet hanging on a brink and her Mother awaiting a new baby in just a few months.Cycles of life in all of its mixtures.
Before, in middle age, I thought her cold and distant.Rumer Godden writes of her girlhood India during the first half of the 20th century using the same descriptions in similar words and phrases as in her other Indian placed novels.
La ternura de la infancia, la belleza de la India, el descubrirse, crecer, aprender a nacer y a morir. Este libro es un canto a la infancia, a la vida.
If you are not familiar with her then you have missed one of the few truly great British novelists of the twentieth century.The River, which was later filmed by Jean Renoir, is a very short and, in parts, sad book, but in many ways typical of Rumer Godden's work: set in India, the main characters children, the theme growing up, and how to be perceived by adults as a person rather than a child.
One modern writer she can possibly be compared with is Alexendar McCall Smith - like him she is a writer who always wants to understand why people are the way they are, and who never condemns others.
El segundo libro que leo de Rumer Godden y cada vez me maravillo más con la prosa de esta mujer."Est
Way, way, way up high on the list of books that capture childhood.
Similar to Jane Gardam's heroine in A Long Way from Verona, the heroine of this book is a young writer full of questions, puzzling over all she sees and leaping forward with flashes of insight.
But, thought Harriet, this *is* the world.[And speaking of the house, which is in India, occupied by her British family:"It had a flat roof, with a parapet where the children played, and the parapet was carved with huge stone daisies.
La protagonista de 'El rio' es Harriet, una preadolescente que vive al lado del rio Ganges, que se está haciendo mayor y que no acaba de encajar ni en el mundo de los niños ni en el de los adultos, pero además también se encuentra dividida entre dos culturas, la inglesa y la india, sin acabar de pertenecer del todo a ninguna.
Y se nota algo desordenado, caótico y torpe.Harriet es una niña que se está haciendo mayor y en realidad no tiene ganas de hacerse mayor, pero descubrirá que el tiempo no se puede detener y que todos nos hacemos mayores y que el mundo de los mayores es muy distinto a la despreocupación de la infancia, porque en el mundo de los mayores hay soledad, dolor y muerte.
nostalgic | gentle | charming
"that we go on being born again and again because we have to, with each thing that happens to us, each new episode.""What is an episode?""It really means an incident .
With each new happening, perhaps with each person we meet if they are important to us, we must either be born again, or die a little bit; big deaths and little ones, big and little births." Pg. 44Unputdownable- clear- simple- smooth- deep...Finished reading this classic at one go, happened to pick it up from the library, just caught my eye and seemed appealing had not heard about the author nor the book.
Four British siblings, who have been brought back from school in England are living at the side of a river, just along the road from the jute works.
This is their world, the garden, the house, the servants, Indian festivals, the jute works and Captain John - who was once injured in the war.
Bogey is also rather good at "going-round-the-garden-without-being-seen." Harriet's world is about to be shattered, and some hard and bitter lessons about to be learned.This is a beautiful and evocotive little novel, the child characters are a real delight, fully rounded little characters that leap shouting off the page.
This novel (novella really – even bulked out with short stories, an introduction and a preface it’s still barely 200 pages) explores childhood, and specifically that moment when you wake up from the idyll of innocence and start to see the rest of the world and understand that growing up means change.At the start of the book Harriet is the classic middle child (though she’s actually the second of four, but Victoria is still very young) – caught between her terribly sensible older sister Bea and her wild younger brother Bogey.
Today, I was wondering while reading this book, that if the description in a book is good (in this book, it is so so good) and if a book has so much of subtle heart into it, like this book, then, we start caring about the characters and the events and the places and everything, as if a deep, soft, subtle, existential connection has been made between our soul and the soul of the writer, as if, the river of our soul is delighted with all the gentle, soft and sweet touches which the book offers.
About Life, growing, death, birth, love, so many first experiences, poetry, beauty and presence of nature.My grandfather knew Renoir and loves his films.
I figured I should read the book, I've had my grandmother's old copy sitting on my bookshelf for years.
So I read it in 3 days and the book is a thousand times better than Renoir's film -- which is lovely, but thought over all it missed the reality/beauty/meaning of the book.
I wish I had read this when I was 13, 14...I'm sure I will read it to a future daughter when she is growing up.
Harriet, the main character, could have been a creation of Lucy Maude Montgomery. The story was a little bit darker than an LMM creation but the passion and imagination of Anne with an "e" lived in Harriet. Or Pat of Silverbush or Emily of New Moon.It was a tad creepy that a man old enough to be an army captain (view spoiler)[was interested in the two sisters who were described as children. Or maybe I have a dirty mind. lol (hide spoiler)]Well written quick read, enjoyable and touching.
Not her best. Wonderful writing, but I just didn't feel like this novella rewarded my investment, or the author's, to be frank. I look forward to reading more of her better novels. So far I've tremendously admired In .this House of Brede, and enjoyed An Episode of Sparrows. The Dolls House is one of the best children's novels ever written, in my opinion. I'm thinking maybe Five for Sorrow, Ten for Joy will be next.
This book was very short and very vivid. A book about a young girl living and growing up in India and the tragedy that befalls her family. As with all of Godden's books, you truly grow to love and cherish the characters she brings to life with her prose. I found myself wishing Icould flash forward and find out what happens to this family 10 years later...
Some really beautiful and lyrical language, but not much in the way of plot.
Her father was employed in India and she lived with her mother, sisters and brother, Bogey.
Harriet tells the story and she likes to read her poems and stories to him and get his opinion.
The story takes a tragic turn when she finds her little brother face down when he was supposed to be out playing.
One sister blames her because she knew that he had a pet snake and did not tell the others.
She is seen successfully flying a kite and she compares it to her own ability to rise and soar above life’s twists and turns.
I read several of Rumer Godden's novels in my teens, and loved her delicate capturing of the transition between childhood and adulthood, so when I found a couple of her books in the Oxfam bookshop recently I couldn't resist buying them.
It's quite insubstantial, and I didn't love it as much as I loved some of Godden's longer novels when I read them, but it's beautifully written and perfectly captures the confusion and isolation of suddenly not being a child any more, but still not being a grown-up.
I found The River very slow going - the story would be hard to get into, then I'd be in its flow until again I was stopped, by a turn of phrase or a jolting of words that clanged uncomfortably together, jarring or annoying instead of smooth.I was happy to finish the story, a bit confused that Bogey's death did not have more ramifications or sadness around it.
A little life gone and barely any tears.Reading the two short stories that followed The River, however, put the tale into perspective.

I haven't finished it yet (as of writing this), but it's made me think I'll need to reevaluate my opinions of Rumer Godden. I wasn't a fan of Black Narcissus, and avoided everything else. But this has real energy and soul to it- not in a twee way, but as a much deeper understanding of the interior lives of people and she renders it with elegance and sophistication. A deceptively complex story. Maybe we just needed time and distance. A small reminder not to discount writers on a single work.
I thought the river was quite okay, however there was not much plot. They managed to describe the setting quite well, however they went into it too much. I believe they could have added more plot into the story, as the only big plot point that happened was when Bogie got killed by the snake. Overall, it wasn't a terrible book, but there was ways Godden could have improved it.
This is a charming tale from the point of view of an adolescent English girl living in India during wartime back home. Her conflicts with siblings and the portrayal of her first feelings of romantic attraction ring true.... The movie version directed by Jean Renoir is wonderful in bringing this story to life.
I think that when you read the book it isn't very good and moves very slow. If you read in between the lines it becomes rather dark like how Captain John spends time with the children a lot. In this closer to the middle Harriet starts to understand becoming a woman and the responsibilities of it. Overall i wouldn't read this book again or recommend it but it isn't the worst book
This was very beautiful, exceptionally descriptive writing about a young family in India during WWII. IMPORTANT: I advise reading the preface after the book, as it contains a major spoiler. Also, the event that was spoiled was surprisingly downplayed.
Another beautiful book about growing up in British India. Exquisite and full of love for the place. But oh, how sad! Only read it if you are feeling strong.
