https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/271634.For_the_Life_of_the_World
I come from a protestant background but most protestants argue for worldview in gnostic categories.
This is the oldest heresy the church faced: gnosticism.
Fr. Schmemann, on the other hand, demonstrates how the Christian worldview cannot be separated from the more "earthly" elements of the faith: the sacraments.
For him, the world is sacramental.
The sacraments are life to the world.
Behind the pages was a glimpse at how the Christian church may oppose secuarlism in sacramental terms.
It's all gnostic.
From now on, I will never do apologetics apart from the other dimensions of the Christian faith.
Yet, if there is something that we -- the serious, adult and frustrated Christians of the twentieth century -- look at with suspicion, it is certainly joy.""[T]he term 'sacramental means that for the world to be means of worship and means of grace is not accidental, but the revelation of its meaning, the restoration of its essence, the fulfillment of its destiny.
The final sentence says it all..."A Christian is the one who, wherever s/he looks, finds Christ and rejoices in Him. And this joy tranforms all his/her human plans and programs, desicisons and actions, making all his/her mission the sacrament of the world's return to Him who is the life of the world."
Rather than focusing on the form and function of the sacraments (i.e. what constitutes a sacrament, who may partake of it, and how is it partaken), Schmemann carries the discussion a step further by considering why God, in His wisdom, purposed the sacraments in the first place.Rather than an abbreviated and parenthetical episode in what is other the Christians Spiritual process of salvation throughout life, the sacraments offer both an eschatological perspective as to the original and ultimate purpose of the creation - a temple to bless God and man.
Outside of Scripture, the first 10 or so pages of this book are the most important words I've ever read.I'd join the Orthodox Church, but that would be so Protestant of me that it seems wise to stay put.
Long understood as one of the decisive texts for both late-modern sacramental theology as well as one of the foundational texts for the current antisecular Charles Taylor-inspired theological movement (see, for instance, Hauerwas, Wells, Smith, et al.), Alexander Schmemann's For the Life of the World is a masterful, albeit all-too-brief, monograph thoroughly mapping the contours of both the ontology of the sacraments alongside the history of secularism that result from the Church's misunderstandings of them.
Great spiritual-devotional read. And the secret is that it's Evangelical!
Research of that sort, he says, will involve one in the traditional niceties of theology about sacraments: "their number, their 'validity', their institution, etc." Schmemann does not want to approach the question from those well-worn perspectives – and understandably so, since such approaches, from at least the time of the Marburg Disputation, have proven to be limited in their ability to unite Christians and achieve consensus about worship and its workings.Rather, Schmemann believes that the actions which these utterances performatively enact are hard-wired into the nature of Man, the nature of God, and the nature of the whole Creation.
But the unique position of man in the universe is that he alone is to bless God for the food and the life he receives from Him. He alone is to respond to God's blessings with his blessings." (p.15)"It is the Christian gospel that God did not leave man in exile." (p.18)"Time is always growth, but only at the end can we discern the direction of that growth and its fruits." (p.60)"We come to church, we who are in the world having lived through many hours filled, as usual, with work and rest, and suffering and joy, hatred and love.
He sees the world "sacramentally." I think what he means by that is that the world is God's creation and is both to manifest his presence and also to be fellowship with us.
Schmemann did not intend this book as an apologetic for his Eastern Orthodox views of the Sacraments (all seven of them).
Where he has not, let God be true and every man a liar.Finally, as I read this book, I saw Peter Leithart on about every page.
I am quite sure that the discerning reading will benefit from Schmemann, even in he is opposed to Leithart's thinking.
Truthfully, they also both embrace another heresy known as "religion".Yet both have left the teachings of the Apostles, especially as elaborated on by the early Fathers of the Church - indeed, as put forth in the Seven Ecumenical Councils that many in the West acknowledge, but fail to grasp.Alexander Schmemann here paints an engaging image of the world as it was always meant to be, as Eucharist (meaning thanksgiving - it's amazing how almost all in Protestant denominations fail to realize how often the word occurs in the Greek of the NT).
Among books that should be required reading for priests entering sacramental ministry, this short book by Fr. Alexander Schmemann should be at the top of the list.
To read Schemann is to discover a true sacramental vision of the world and Life in Christ.
In that sense, reading Schmemann is akin to attending the sacrament of confession: to confess one's blindness in the presence of a priest; to receive the counsel of penance; to walk in newness of life reconciled to Christ and His Kingdom.
Attending to Schmemann's thought, one will be inclined to the life of prayer and discover one's hunger and thirst for the Kingdom and its sacraments.
Very good.
It is said in every person there is only one book, and in some ways that is very true of Fr. Schmemann's liturgical theology.
Schmemann argued for us to experience creation as God made it, and in that we learn what it is to be human - in relation to God and to creation.
Religion is not magically making a secular world sacred, but helping us to see creation as God intended it.
Sacramentalism is thus a way to see the world, to understand what it is to be human, to relate to God.
I want to reread.
Fr. Alexander Schmemann presents a holistic understanding of the world as sacrament and of Man's original role to be a priest of Creation and to bless God through recognizing God's Creation as a gift and offering it back to Him in praise.
Schmemann discusses the Orthodox sacraments, such as the Eucharist, baptism and chrismation, marriage, penance, etc...and also explains how the Orthodox view the liturgy as a separation from the world (chiding churches that downplay aspects of Christianity in order to make it more "acceptable"; he reminds us that after the Resurrection, Jesus was initially UNRECOGNIZABLE to Mary Magdalene and the disciples).
The world and all that is in it is meant to be our means of communion with God. Adam did not fulfill his role as a Priest of creation.
He did not offer this world to God and rejected it as his communion with him while loving the creation for its own sake.
It is in the Church where we partake of the Kingdom to come as it is sacramentally manifested to us in this age, making us once again the priests of creation offering all things to God in eucharist whereby God transfigures it into a New Creation."...
Schmemann writes from an Orthodox perspective, but much of what he says is instructive for all Christians, especially those of us not in the habit of thinking with a truly sacramental vision.
And though Schmemann's characterizations of "Western" theological attitudes and categories tend to be oversimplified (i.e., he seems to include all of non-Orthodox Christendom under the one title "Western") and his critiques of this "Western" theology are, I think, misguided, his amazing insights into the nature of Christ's gift, given "for the life of the world," really make the book.
It challenges Western views of worship, and does so from such a different way of thinking to me that I needed to read it slowly and often re-read sections as I went.
Schmemann is writing from Orthodox position, but I believe much of what he has to say is extremely helpful to all traditions within Christianity.
It challenges the entirety of the Christian life.
Is it merely a call to change an intellectual position - to believe doctrinally?
What is the full Christian sacramental life of the church?Chapter six (Trampling Down Death with Death) is particularly powerful and has implications far beyond worship.
It's up there with MERE CHRISTIANITY, say, or ORTHODOXY."The church is the sacrament of Kingdom - not because she possesses divinely instituted acts called 'sacraments', but because first of all she is the possibility given to man to see in and through this world the 'world to come', to see and to 'live' it in Christ.
It is only when in the darkness of this world we discern that Christ has already 'filled all things with Himself' that these things, whatever they may be, are revealed and given to us full of meaning and Beauty.
Fr. Schmemann elucidates sacramental theology and how in its very essence its purpose is to transform the world.
I thought his argument that both secularism and religion are distortions of Christianity is also quite illuminating.This is nonetheless and difficult book to read as Schmemann forces his reader to truly grapple with these ideas and to reconcile the reader's own life to them.
I found these podcast episodes to be very helpful in understanding Fr. Schmemann's arguments.I cannot recommend this book highly enough for Orthodox Christians as well as those who want to understand more about the sacramental theology of the Eastern Church.
" 'Man is what he eats.' { the German philosopher Feuerbach wrote.} Feuerbach was expressing, without knowing it, the most religious idea of man.
For long before Feuerbach the same definition of man was given by the Bible.
In the biblical story of creation, man is presented, first of all as a hungry being, and the whole world as his food...
Man must eat in order to live; he must take the world into himself and transform it into himself, into flesh and blood...
This image of the banquet remains, throughout the whole Bible, the central image of life."
A classic and one of the greatest Christian works ever, in my view.
Schmemann humbly but assuredly expresses the Truth of the Sacramental life against all imposters, putting the Liturgy, Church and Theology largely in their proper place.
This is one to read and reread- a point made on the back of the book by no less than Thomas Merton.
The books balancing act of refined scholarship and accessibility to laypeople is an achievement and is a testament to Schmemann.
However, the book does suffer from an unnecessary disparaging attitude towards other Christians at times.
Generally speaking, this book is a Joy.
Read in 1994, 2012 and now in 2014 amd it just gets better.e.g. Alexandr Schmemann: “The cross of Christ signified an end of all “natural” rejoicing; it made it, indeed, impossible. From this point of view the sad “seriousness” of modern man is certainly of Christian origin even if this has been forgotten by the man himself. Since the gospel was preached in this world, all attempts to go back to a pure “pagan joy”, all “renaissances”, all “healthy optimisms” were bound to fail”…. And it is this
Read in 1994, 2012 and now in 2014 amd it just gets better.e.g.
From this point of view the sad “seriousness” of modern man is certainly of Christian origin even if this has been forgotten by the man himself.
Since the gospel was preached in this world, all attempts to go back to a pure “pagan joy”, all “renaissances”, all “healthy optimisms” were bound to fail”….
And it is this sadness that permeates mysteriously the whole life of the world, its frantic and pathetic hunger and thirst for perfection that kills all joy”.
(For the Life of the world .
An awesome recalling of the purpose and meaning of the liturgy, Schmemman is stands as a giant of liturgical exegesis in opposition to the reductionist liturgical theologies espoused by many in modern times. This book is so dense with insight and inspired commentary that I feel I could start over and get as much out of it again. The recalling of the church to the truth of the liturgy as symbol and reality is much needed in the western Christian church that too often separates the mystical from the real.
A simply brilliant book. Occasionally he ventures into Eastern Orthodox doctrines that I, as a protestant, disagree with. Marriage as sacrament is one of them, but even Protestants must say that marriage is sacramental, though it is not a sacrament. All in all, a wonderful book the goal of which is to destroy the pesky dichotemy of "religion" and "secular." Instead, he wants to paint reality as a unified whole, and that before we can understand life, we must understand the Life that was "for the life of the world."
The second reading of this book is somehow much better than the first, even though I found myself deeply impacted by my first reading of it. Schmemann lays out how the liturgy of the church--in which he explores the Eucharist, baptism, marriage, and death--is the means by which we ascend into the presence of Christ to share in the kingdom and then come back with the reflected light of this kingdom, with its joy, and that this light and joy is first and foremost lived in the presence of and for the life of the world.
Wonderful insights on the meaning of Christian liturgy and stimulating presentation of the Christian sacramental worldview. Unfortunately, in parts there is excessive disparagement of Christians who do not share this view, implicit supersessionism, an overly dismissive attitude towards modern liberal theology, and sometimes a tendency to ignore the importance of social action. Nevertheless, still very much worth reading.
For years, every Sunday morning I think of Fr. Schmemann's assertion that the liturgy begins when the faithful climb out of bed and wash their faces, get dressed and begin to journey to church. In this way and in so many others, he elucidates the sanctification of all creation through the Eucharist. I love this book.
I loved wrestling with the ideas worked out here, though I was less fond of sifting through some of the prose. Still, a fantastic vision of seeing the entire creation--and not just "churchy things"--as sacramental.
