https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39020.1491
My favorite recent history book, Mann surveys the breadth and complexity of indigenous cultures in the Americas before the arrival of Columbus.
This book blows up many stubborn, out-dated theories like the singular Bering land-bridge migration, the idea that the land was 'mostly empty' when Europeans arrived, and the idea that most indigenous peoples were 'simple' hunter gatherers.
It also gives us a good look at just how stubborn and resistant traditional Euro-American scholarship has been to accepting any new information that didn't fit established theories about the indigenous peoples.
The comparisons between the two hemisphere's agriculture and domesticable animals are fine, but the assertion that Aztec (apparently it's more politically correct to call them Mexica) philosophy was as rich as medieval europe's is ludicrous, especially given that such a huge volume of Aztec codices have been preserved and deciphered.
The Aztecs did some respectable philosophical work, but Mann's exaggerations aside, they didn't come close to rivaling the work done in ancient Greece, to say nothing of the subsequent 2,000 years of philosophy in Europe (with a nod towards Middle Eastern contributions as well) that took place between the death of Aristotle and the discovery of the new world.
This was like a coloring book of pre-Pilgrim North America for me in that it filled in a lot of unanswered questions and brilliantly illuminated some areas of my knowledge that were mere outlines.
Early on in school we were inundated with stories of Samoset and Squanto, the first Native Americans to make contact with the Plymouth Colony pilgrims, and how in 1621 they strolled into the transplanted Englishmen's village and a big party broke out, thus began the tradition of Thanksgiving.
I'm still reading it, but I've been impressed so far.[I've now finished, see below.] Anyone who enjoyed it should also consider Elaine Dewar's Bones, which explores the archaeological controversy of how long people have been in the New World.
(She wholeheartedly supports the "a really, really long time" camp.)My only critique of 1491, and it is minor, is that the author I feel overstates the case that Europeans (mainly English) did not enjoy a military superiority over the natives, that their powder weapons were ineffective.
There is a reason why there was a period of 128 years between Colombus' landing and a permanent European settlement in North America.
When one tribe finally took pity on the English settlement of Plymouth, it was only because a smallpox epidemic had killed vast numbers of the them off, and they were concerned about being run over by their enemies, who had not yet suffered this fate.
The only reason people think that most Native Americans were purely nomadic hunters was because the smallpox had killed off most of the 'urbanized' settlements that required agriculture.
There were some interesting factoids, such as the theory that much of the Amazon rainforest was planted by humans, but even then the data were not marshaled in a convincing, coherent fashion.
I will have to look elsewhere for a coherent analysis of this topic.Updated Recommendations:For an excellent analysis of some of the earliest evidence of human habitation in North America, consider Settlement Of The Americas A New Prehistory--it is more scholarly as well as being much more readable and interesting.
Timothy Egan's Short Nights of the Shadow Catcher: The Epic Life and Immortal Photographs of Edward Curtis is an interesting introduction to one of the most definitive chronicles of Native American cultures in North America.
This, he argues, is dehumanizing, regardless of whether you prefer to prefix "savage" with "noble," because a people incapable of change seems incapable of will, of thought, of ingenuity.He attempts to dismantle this notion by presenting research supporting 3 broad ideas:1) pre-Columbian population estimates are now assumed to be much higher than previously thought (i.e. between the time of first contact and the colony at Plymouth, humanity in the Americans witnessed a massive die-off)2) humans were present in North America for tens of thousand of years, and the complexity of their societies were comparable with with Eurasian counterparts3) Indians could and did exert influence over the natural worldOn the whole, I think Mann made convincing arguments for the broad stokes.
Fascinating exploration of what we know of the "New World" before Columbus arrived.
I knew pretty much nothing about the Incas, the Mayans, the Aztecs, and all the other societies that actually were possibly BIGGER than Europe in 1492, and dwarfed it in centuries before.
It's also an interesting survey of these societies and their environments, of how the Indians and the "pristine" environments are a bit of a myth.
Opened my eyes to a subject I knew nothing about, so I highly recommend!!!!
Author Charles Mann's purpose is to debunk three commonly held ideas about the Americas before Columbus: that the continents were sparsely populated, that the social and technical development was limited and that the locals left the environment untouched.In discussing scholarly debates on these subjects, he convincingly argues that the population, before the decimation of disease, was quite high.
The major factor here is the spread of Old World disease.On the question of social and cultural development, he argues that Peru and Mesoamerica should be counted among the birthplaces of human culture.
A necessary and interesting corrective to popular perceptions on the 'pre-Columbian' eras of the American continent.
Many may have already doubted the old narrative of Natives being 'uncivilized' and the stereotype of being 'communal with nature' and the 'noble savage', when they have already built pre-existing complex societies.The author does scatter from topic to topic, but he paints a broad overview of some of the various trends in Native Studies and anthropology.
Some tens of millions of people lived in these vast cities, with their culture and art and society comparable to the pre-Socratics in ancient Greece, or in size, comparable to ancient China.
Mindblowing. Everyone should read this book. It's amazing to me how much historians got wrong -- and what this book illuminates is why historians get such things wrong. Some of it is flat-out racism and ethnocentrism -- historians' tendency to dismiss oral tradition as crap, for example, when it turns out most Indian groups have done a good job of keeping track of their own past. Some of it, however, was simply lost knowledge that's only now being rediscovered, with the aid of modern technology and research methods. Changed the way I view the world. Truly stunning stuff.
This book could be good.
I stopped reading it somewhere around page 100, where the author makes the comparison between ritual human sacrifice by the Aztecs and executions in European countries.
By taking the executions in England for a 100 year period, then adjusting for the size of the English population compared to the estimated possible population of the Aztecs, and comparing that yearly execution total with what Cortez estimated, Mann concludes that Europeans were more bloodthirsty.
Despite my issues with the math behind these comparisons, I'm still left wondering what Mann's point is.That becomes my issue with the book.
So much of our notions of what North America was like before Europeans arrived are the result of our own impact on the continent.
Mann shows that Native American cultures were highly civilized and complex, with enormous centers of population and highly organized agricultural and political societies.
He shows that when Europeans came to North America, they were not seeing a "state of nature" but rather a continent that had already been significantly changed by the agricultural practices of its inhabitants.
But Mann shows that the populations of the America were equivalent to those of Europe in 1500, and that there were large, organized communiteis throughout the continent.
With non-fiction books that are based around a particular theory I feel like as long as I read enough to internalize the argument and really understand some of the evidence I can stop reading when I get bored.
If I missed some revelation on page 420 somebody let me know.The key takeaway here: American societies were almost certainly older, larger, more technically advanced and more complex than they are given credit for.
While this is basically a no brainer for most of us, actually reading all of the evidence and the history of the discovery is really interesting.Another takeaway: Archeology is NOT an exact science.
Its like a crappy metaphor for life.Finally: Interesting factoid.
Outstanding. Amazing.
Most notable is the contrasting of chronicles of the very first who explored (seeing a continent teeming with people) with those who came later (seeing a mostly empty and undisturbed environment) thanks to the diseases the Europeans brought to the Americas which swept ahead of them.The second and third parts are interesting as well, exploring archaeological research, various dating technologies, agricultural advancements (many foods which are now associated with countries, such as tomatoes and Italy, were originally cultured by Native Americans) and the history of a number of different cultures, including the Clovis, Olmec and Maya.
Overall this is a great book for anyone interested in American Indian or pre-Columbian history.History doesn't have the same narration demands as the fiction that I spend most of my time listening to as there typically aren't an array of different characters that need to be given distinct voices.
The Pilgrims had time to sit in their villages and really write about what they were like, but by that point they had been trading with Europeans for almost a hundred years, european goods were ingrained in their society, and the first waves of disease had already arrived via fishing boats.
It's not that far fetched to think that maybe in 1830 some of these nomadic plains tribes were living in tipis and surviving only on what they could hunt because 150 years ago their societies were decimated by disease and they were forced to become nomadic hunter-gatherers.
But even with that background, there was enough new/interesting stuff to keep me entertained.The downside is also the upside: as a journalist, the author is prone to kind of florid prose, which I found distracting but others (I hear) find exciting.He also jumps around a lot -- it was unclear from the chapter titles what themes would be covered, or where, or who.
So it's very easy to flip or page through this book, but it's kind of boring to read it straight through.
And for the most part 1491 is a fascinating read, dispelling one Pre-Columbian myth after another with “new” scientific evidence – although much of it has been around for awhile but ignored – as well as raising some fascinating if troubling questions.
To get the answer to that question as well as a whole lot more information - for instance the “history” of maize/corn - pick up this book.
As alluded to above one of the fascinating features of this book is that much of the “evidence” utilized to retool our history of the Pre-Columbian world has been around and has either been ignored or considered “quirks” outside the boundaries of contemporary theory.
And for that reason, this book does read like a history text (like Guns, Germs, and Steel).
But it is exceptionally researched and fantastic.Mann describes North and South America in a way that traditional textbooks and contemporary rhetoric never acknowledges.
He also introduces most readers to Hopewell Indians, Mississippian Indians like the Cahokians, and other groups that built powerful empires and established incredibly technologically-advanced cultures prior to European contact - all without the help of steel, guns, trade with Asia, or beasts of burden.
The unfortunate aspect of Mann's book, though, is that it will likely be out of date fairly soon.
Much of his information is current scholarship; the investigation of pre-Columbus North and South America is ever-changing.
I am not seeking to denigrate the Haudenosaunee, which was an impressive achievement, and I realise the author would be seeking to finish with a flourish, but I find this claim to be a wild exaggeration, totally ignoring the extent to which Ancient Greek ideas of democracy, liberty and equality before the law influenced the 18th Century Enlightenment, and the extent to which the political philosophy of the Enlightenment was inextricably linked with the Scientific Revolution and the challenges it posed to tradition and faith.
The author's inability to leave Europeans out of a book that doesn't include them is annoying.
Pulling histories for marginalized peoples out of white folks records is a standard method of study and many of the biographies I've read employ this technique.
In the beginning generally the author explains where the info/facts/history comes from, the records of the farm or plantation etc, without making those whites the center of the story.
One of the author's main goals here is to expose the mistaken history while protecting white supremacy.
It's considerably better as it includes much more info than exists in this book or I'm told 1493.
This is an excellent book that describes the civilizations in North, Central, and South America before (and shortly after) the arrival of Columbus.
For example, the agricultural method of inter-planting different species of crops in a plot of land was a wonderful approach for keeping farms fertile over long periods of time, even millennia.
This farming method was much better--and more efficient--than the European method of rotating crops.
They lived as a single social class.
They could not fathom the European class system.
So much eye-opening research. I know that some of these findings are still being elaborated, but wow. So much devastation by disease, such large populations and complex civilizations. And the thesis at the end was so interesting: that it was Native American political structure that informed the founding fathers in creating our unique constitution that was based on liberty and equality.
Every now and again a book comes along that fundamentally changes my perspective about something big, and this is one of them. Theres a reason why the Pilgrims arrived at Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts in 1620 and found the forests nicely felled, the fields already cleared, and caches of food ready to be stolen. The reason: a huge population of Indians had already done the work on their behalf. The reason why hardly any of them were left is that the local population had been reduced a few short
The reason: a huge population of Indians had already done the work on their behalf.
The reason why hardly any of them were left is that the local population had been reduced a few short years before by a European-introduced epidemic that killed 95% of them.Take this story and multiply it many times over, and you have the story of contact between Europeans and Indians everywhere in the New World.
In fact, as the author points out, it may not even be appropriate to call it the "new" world.
Or to be more accurate, wrong.This book is highly recommended.
333 Iroquoian Great law of PeaceRead, Write, Dream, Teach !ShiraDest19 February, 12016 HEUpdated with re-read: 6 August, 12017 HE Wow to the first civilization being in Peru rather than Asia, based on seafood rather than agriculture and knocking all the Eurocentric archeologists for a loop, Super wow to the existence of a body of literature in Nahua from the Mexica/Aztec and meso-American civilizations that is larger than the Greeks, and not yet translated, Yikes to the pigs actually carrying dozens of diseases that are transmissible between them and not only us, but several of our domesticated animals as well, making Europeans far far more microbe resistant than North/South Americans.
and the 3/4 Siberian death rate made a 90% death rate absolutely plausible in the Western hemisphere: pigs :-(What a sad but also incredibly awe-inspiring second read, but this time I really remembered his comments about the works of art cut short by the Conquistadores...
Rarely have I read a book filled with so much information contrary to what I thought I knew.1491 basically summarizes recent researches suggesting that the Americas were populated earlier than previously believed, more densely populated than commonly estimated and more widely civilized.One of the more interesting stories in this book is about the civilization(s) along the Amazon.
The rainforest, much of it, might be more a tree garden gone to seed than a primeval jungle.The book contains many stories such as this, stories which are joined by a grand, speculative narrative about the broad scope of human history and pre-history in the Americas before the arrival of the Europeans.
(Earthworms went extinct in North America during the Ice Age???) So I figured I should start with 1491 and get the full pre-Columbian experience.I was engrossed by this book to the point where my Kindle 2's failing battery became an issue.
Before that they were barely tolerated trading partners.They had a civilization that was more advanced in a lot of ways than Europe was at the time, a point the book makes repeatedly until my eyes glazed over.
In fact, the Indians were amazed at how short and smelly the Europeans were, something that persists to this day.This is a book that needs to be read twice, though I don't have the time or patience for that.

Another widely held belief – that early inhabitants of the Americas arrived by crossing the Bering Strait land bridge from Siberia to Alaska – is also held up for scrutiny because of new evidence of early human habitation in Chile.Mann brings to light a vast body of research from diverse fields, but does so in a style that is quite readable.
As a science writer, he is careful to present opposing arguments on controversial topics, but paints a compelling picture of the early Americas as being more sophisticated and more widely settled than we had previously imagined.
