https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189802.Belgarath_the_Sorcerer
David Eddings has told one story really, really well...about eight times now.
If you've read his books, you know this story.
It's not edge-of-your seat reading, because you already know where this story will end (it's a prequel as well as being THAT story.
Kind of like being its own grandfather) but it does let you spend another few days (or weeks, depending on how fast you read brick) rubbing elbows with these characters.
It's like coming across a pair of shoes already worn to your feet.
You don't have the fun of breaking in a new pair, but you're going to be comfortable while Eddings takes you for a ride.
Belgarath the Sorcerer is best read after both the Belgariad and the Mallorean.
Calling it a history book is a grave injustice, on the scale of calling a Lamborghini a car (which it is, of course, but surely you can come up with far more dazzling ways to describe a Lamborghini.) "Belgarath the Sorcerer" is the story of one man's love--for his god, for his wife, for his "brothers", for his daughters, and for people.
So this is the second time I've read this book, mainly cause I was out of stuff and I *really* hated the follow-up.
I'll get to that sooner or later, but what I might have found charming about the digressions this time, I just found irriating and "clever." And it was carried to extremes in Polgara.
I loved this series and perhaps it's been too long since I've read it, but I more think it's a matter of "you finished the series" let it go.
The jokes that were sparkling are now tired.
But maybe I'm just in a pissy mood today.
But the expansion and deepening of the various realms as well as the fantastically spiky, fun characters who continued to populate the Eddings' universe made the growing tedium of its cyclical, woefully deterministic view of history and magic easier to bear.Belgarath (the book), I'm afraid, has all of the weaknesses of both series drawn out over an almost interminable 700-plus pages.
Which, as the reader will discover, does not make for very lively reading.Much of this novel consists of Belgarath wandering through the centuries, setting up his back story as he prepares for and participates in the numerous Events (please note the capital E) that repetitively bring the history of his universe to a head in The Belgariad.
In the Belgariad and Mallorean Belgarath is already seven thousand years old.
This book is about those first seven thousand years.The concept of a character that has seen humanity drag itself up from the mud, and been at the forefront of every mythical and historical event in memory, never fails to fascinate me.
There's a whole layer of subtlety that gets added when you read those books after this one.For it's unique insights, for it's fascinating and novel character, and for the smoothness of the writing, this book remains an old friend that I find myself coming back to over and over again.
The characters are all fun, well defined and the plot is clear but has some unexpected turns and twists.
The world is, once again, clear, fun and simple, Manichean in a delightful and fantastical way.
For any older and more serious fantasy reader, the lack of depth and reality make this book an insult to any and all fantasy, as the world is paper thin, the characters are lifeless overused cliches and the overall story plain boring.Five stars for any younger readers, and a waste of time for all others.
It is important to remember I read David's books as a young man, and my ratings all reflect how the books made me feel back then, 20 years ago, and not today.Now, Belgarath was such a sweet book, and infused me with a sense of warmth and safety.
Happy go lucky me!I just go my way,Living everyday!I don't worry!Worrying don't agree,Things that bother you,Never bother me!Things that bother you,Never bother meI feel happy and fine!AHA!Living in the sunlight,Loving in the moonlightHaving a wonderful time!Haven't got a lot,I don't need a lotCoffee's only a dimeLiving in the sunlight,Loving in the moonlight,Having a wonderful time!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c71RCA...Imagine this while reading any one fantasy book.Yup, there.Igor
I wanted to like this book. I really did. But after two weeks of chewing I had to quit. It's sooo long and sooo boring. Even narrator himself doesn't really want to be telling this story, why should I be interested in reading it? I'm just relieved I found the courage to say: "Enough!" :)
Now none of these books I would put on my "I don't care if you don't like the genre, I highly recommend you read these books" list, but I would put them on my "If you enjoy fantasy books and want to enjoy some of the books which made this genre something special towards the end of the 20th century" list.This book was written as if it was written by one of the major characters of the Belgariad and the Mallorean, Belgarath the Sorcerer.
Belgarath is one of the most complex, entertaining and lovable characters in the Belgariad and the Malloreon, without whom none of the events in those books would have taken place, and it's extremely fitting that he would have his own story to tell!
His own account is a nice background to the Belgariad and provides all the juicy details of the legendary characters and events that you've always been curious about but was never told in full.
Eddings' trademark humour has always been particularly strong in the character of Belgarath, and this book reveals another, very human and vulnerable side to the Eternal Man that was seemlingly undefeatable, always in control and never very serious.
I'm giving this 3.5 stars for the pure and simple fact it took me so long to read!
As can be seen from the start date I actually started this book last year.
I really enjoyed it at first, I loved Belgarath in the other books and so seeing his life was great.
However with about 200/300 pages left I found I couldn't bring myself to read anymore.
So I put the book down and then picked it back up about 4 days ago.
I thought I'd get the last 200 or so pages read in a day but even they took me nearly 5!
It was just so long.

It's a rehash of the Belgariad & Mallorean with a bit extra from Belgarath's point of view. I read it once, just to see if there were any startling revelations. None. Not worth buying or reading unless you are just crazy about this series. I thought the Belgariad was very good & read it several times. The Mallorean was OK & I've read it maybe twice. This book, along with Polgara & the Mrin Codex are only for the fanatics, though.
Some readers get snobby and look down on the fantasy/science fiction genre as a whole. I believe these readers are simply close minded, but it would be easier to convince them that fantasy has integrety if books like Belgarath didn't exist. This is a superb example of absolute trash fantasy lit. Reading this book probably knocks 5 points off your IQ.
Мемоарите на Белгарат и Поулгара ни запознават с човешкото лице на легендите, били те с неземен или придобил вечност произход, и всичките тегоби и малки радости от неувехващата младост и непрекъсваемия живот.
Може би най-смисления начин да прекараш вечността и единствената причина да вдишаш от огъня на нетленността.Битка на характери в едно магьосническо семейство, където човешкото отдавна е отстъпило на далеч по-правилното полу-божествено отношение към света и живота.
Вечно отсъстващия баща, никога непростилата дъщеря, отговорността към вечното семейство, дългът към живота като цяло, душите страдащи в безвремието без любов… Образи от много други наречени „истински“ книги, тук в съвсем невъзможностен сетинг придобиват далеч по-разбираема идентичност без тежестта на реалността и паралелите с познати или със собствените ни грешки.
As was the case with Polgara the Sorceress, it was very interesting to get a look at the life of such a major character from the Belgariad series, especially one who has lived for so long.
As a fan of the original series and its prequels and sequels, I enjoyed reading this book; however, I do believe that for someone who has not read the Belgariad, or has read it and did not enjoy it very much, Belgarath the Sorcerer would be a tough nut to crack.Although getting a closer look at certain events was interesting, it is a very long story that tended to get dreary every now and then.
First, David and Leigh Eddings gave us "The Belgariad" and "The Mallorean" (among many other books), and now Belgarath comes to tell his own story.
This book revisits battles,conflicts, and political situations, ties the pieces together, and still leaves you wanting more.
You won't be sorry.I have been a fan of the Eddings' for many years, and while I have owned this book for a while, I hadn't found the right time to read it until now.
If you like epic fantasies that live and breath, "Belgarath" and other works by David and Leigh Eddings are right for you!

You get to peek at the time before Garion and friends and even if the two books (Belgarath and Polgara) have some of the same "scenes" it only made me feel exited: "I remember this from the other book!" You can basically live some of the same events twise, by reading the two wonderful novels, but from a whole different perspective, making it still feel a totally different stories, which they are.David and Leight Eddings have an amazing talent of telling a deep story with lovable characters even with a timeline of thousands of years.
This was just kind of a fun little pre-history of the Belgariad and Malloreon series. I really liked it because it showed where the main characters had come from and what their importance was in the series (just incase you didn't already figure it out). The only thing that was hard for me to get used to was the style of writing. Unlike the rest of the series, "Belgarath the Sorcerer" was written in first person from the perspective of Belgarath, and just like the character, it was a bit long winded.
As always, Eddings holds the reader's attention extremely well. This story is a prequel to Eddings' wonderful series, the Belgariad. It is a great story and explains a lot from the Belgariad that the reader did not get in the earlier series. The only negative, as I see it, is the fact that this book is simply a long explanation of the life of Belgarath. If the reader did not read the aforementioned series, the reader would be lost. Still, it is a wonderful book that fills in a lot of holes.Darrel Blair
I read this before, because I was starved for more about these characters and had read "The Belgariad" and "The Mallorean" several times. So glad David Eddings is finally giving credit to his wife, Leigh. I was always impressed with how his female characters rang true, but now I know why! Another outstanding book, and a great prequel to "The Belgariad". I'll read it again and again.
Run out if ideas? Why not rehash the same ones you’ve already done and extend it to a book. While the first part of the book was quite good in revealing the younger Belgarath it wasn’t exactly revelatory and just a rehash of the first 10 books. And Belgarath's constant ‘pulling of whiskers’ (if I remember the term correctly) did get very annoying. That said, it was still entertaining.
This re-read was mostly pretty fun, and it's an interesting tale. There are a few inconsistencies with other books, which is distracting. Also, I would recommend re-reading the Mallorean before reading BtS and PtS (which I didn't do!).
One of the best book series I read as teenager. The characters and their stories are as alive in me today as they were back then. Want to read these books again.
I absolutely love this kind of story and have read it quite a few times now.
This was amazing! It gave me such a greater understanding of one of the other characters and I loved it!
Belgarath the Sorcerer is the tale of a boy who makes good and goes on to become a wizard (dirty old man depending on your point of view) and to play a formative role in the creation of the world they inhabit and who is responsible and present at much of the major events that transpire!
:D LolBelgarath the Sorcerer is written as a prequel to the the previous books in the series but told in retrospect in the form of the an autobiography so you have the the clever touches of Belagarath being egged on to the write the story by Garion, Pol, Durnik and later Ce'Nedra for the same treatment with Poll, which of course leads to witty asides throughout the text!
As the NECCESITY guides him, he influences people and starts in motion things that won't have an influence for many, many years, but all aim to produce the Child of LIght, who will finally stand against the mad God Torak.Strangely, I didn't enjoy this as much as the books themselves, I think mainly because it is in first person, which I always feels takes away a bit of the drama.
After you've finished the Belgariad and the Malloreon, you're likely to suffer withdrawal from the characters and their banter.
The story is one you've seen before: the Belgariad, mostly, told from a new perspective.
But there is also about seven thousand years of world history preceding it, including a fuller recounting of events only briefly mentioned in the original work.
We're given Belgarath's origin story, of course, as well as the long prologue to the War of the Gods.
Some new characters, and additional tragedy, are introduced, explicating Belgarath's crusty, crotchety nature, and the even pricklier personality of his daughter Polgara.
