https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5865435-the-last-tycoon-an-unfinished-novel-together-with-the-great-gatsby
Fitzgerald had a heart attack and died after writing the first six chapters of this book.
According to Stewart O’Nan in West of Sunset, which I read in March of this year, The Last Tycoon (An Unfinished Novel) together with The Great Gatsby, was written in the mornings, before Fitzgerald went to MGM to be paid a lot to write, uncredited drivel.
It’s like actors, who try so pathetically not to look in mirrors.” (19) In his notes about Stahr, Fitzgerald writes “Never wanted his name on pictures—‘I don’t want my name on the screen because credit is something that should be given to others.
Unfortunately, he died before he finishing a whole draft, this book has no end and what we do have doesn't work particularly well as a beginning and middle.The narrator of The Last Tycoon is Cecelia, daughter of a succesful Hollywood movie producer and accustomed to being around movie stars ...
My thoughts:I feel bad criticizing a book that the author wasn't finished with, in a state he had no intention of publishing it in, but there is no use pretending something works when it doesn't.
Moreover, when you are reading Cecelia's first-person narration, it feels good and right.
When you are reading Stahr's third-person narrative, it feels good and right.
Z jeho strany je to velmi precizní práce, konečně, Posledního magnáta nechal ležet pět let v šuplíku.
Já když po pěti letech otevřela šuplík, našla jsem v ní jen starou svačinu.
Ale zpět ke knize, Gatsby se čte náramně, sice víte, jak to skončí, ale kniha vás prostě baví.
Z Posledního magnáta mám ale velmi rozporuplné pocity.
Postav je tam jak na román, ani na konci knihy jsem si stále nebyla jistá tím, kdo je kdo.
Nebudu se tady moc rozepisovat, nebavilo mne to a dočetla jsem to jen proto, abych si mohla připsat čtyřicátou knihu v tomto roce.

I finished reading it, but he didn't finish writing it.
He died before he was halfway through his plans for the book.
Still, what we have is immensely entertaining, full of inside info on the way Hollywood functioned in the mid-30s, and some typically Fitzgeraldian male/female interaction.
The summaries of his plot ideas, and notes he had made on characters and incidents were pretty fascinating.
Obviously, they couldn't just start at the beginning and work their way through, but I hadn't seen raw notes before.
It occurs to me I still have several Fitzgerald works to get to some day.
This book validates a lot of what I say when teaching The Great Gatsby--Fitzgerald shows how deeply he thinks about why a scene plays out in particular ways through notes that appear along with a sketched outline.
Unfortunately, we will never know what the novel would have looked like had he lived to finish it, but I find the story well worth reading in the form we have it.
No Steinbeck, Fitzgerald does at least show more direct concern for the lives of poorer Americans through his noble "tycoon," Monroe Stahr.
The tragedy of this book is that it would undoubtedly have been Fitzgerald's most mature and perhaps greatest novel. The taste of what was to be is tantalizing. I appreciated the space utilized in this volume to include many of Fitzgerald's notes and letters, giving the reader a glimpse into his process as a writer. What a loss!
Having read the Great Gatsby before, I just jumped ahead to the second work in the book, The Last tycoon, and found myself absolutely enthralled. However, it was only when I got the the end of the what was completely that I found myself sad that is wasn't able to be fully realized by Fitzgerald. I look forward to reading more of his works and then revisiting both of theses works.
Obecně se mi kniha líbila, nicméně se nejednalo o "lehké čtení". Na Gatsbym se mi líbila jeho naděje a jeho ochota udělat vše pro to, aby získal to, co chce. Zároveň mi díky smutnému konci a snad i gatsbymu špatnému výběru partnera přišel příběh velmi reálný. Zajímavý byl taktéž kontrast Gatsbyho s Daisy, která na rozdíl od něj není schopná postavit se za to, co snad i skutečně chce.
I didn't realise this was unfinished, though I wasn't too sad not to know where the characters ended up. Interesting as a portrait of Hollywood, and its hollowness, but none of the characters were particularly likeable.
Though two titles are selected here, I read only the Last Tycoon. It was a good read, no pun intended. I don't read much for pleasure (too busy writing) and this provided a nice break in the action.No spoiler details, though it's an unfinished work.
Scott Fitzgerald's last (and unfinished) novel lacks the power of The Great Gatsby but some of the passages are real good.*First Line: Though I haven't ever been on the screen I was brought up in pictures.First Published: 1941Source: Borrowed CRL
A number of brilliant passages here. The book made me look back to Irving Thalberg, whose gifts to a hollywood were many.
"I like people and I like them to like me, but i wear my heart where God put it-on the inside... "
Did not finish. Boring
Picture the Gilded Age: a time when the rich lived fast paced lives, owned many luxuries, and could get and do anything they want. Well except for Cecelia Brady, the daughter of a powerful movie producer in Hollywood. Though it would seem exciting to most to be “brought up in the pictures,” Cecelia “accepted Hollywood with the resignation of a ghost assigned to a haunted house.” She may find Hollywood distasteful, but there is one thing she has a taste for-- Monroe Stahr.  Monroe Stahr is a mov
Cecelia imagines her and Stahr being together and the moment that he will notice her as more than the little girl he has seen grow into adulthood.
Even though Cecelia constantly throws herself at him he denies her every time because he has eyes for another, Kathleen Moore.
Since the moment Stahr sees Kathleen he is immediately in love with her.
Cecelia immediately starts her investigation of her after seeing her and Stahr having an intimate conversation at a party then leaving together.
He gives the reader bits and pieces of Kathleen Moore’s secret; letting her give herself to Stahr momentarily then disappearing for a long time.
As his health begins to fail him, he is forced to see the ugliness of the business that he has helped keep thriving for years.Cecilia Brady, daughter of Stahr’s counterpart, is the stereotypical Hollywood brat; lots of money, nice clothes and car, an education that will not likely yield employment and general self-absorption.
Basically not a bad person considering all she’s been handed and also disillusioned with Hollywood, yet she remains close to it in order to be near the man she loves, Monroe Stahr.
This is Scott Fitzgerald's famous unfinished novel.
He began it after his other stories and novels had been forgotten by the reading public and he had flopped as a Hollywood screenwriter.
However, all the elements of a Fitzgerald novel are there: a sensitive hero carrying a deep emotional wound, a luxurious milieu, wonderful prose, and a sense that the hero's great endeavors are doomed despite his own best efforts and the many good qualities he brings to them.All in all, this book is an interesting and worthwhile read for Fitzgerald fans, and anyone interested in good literature.
Fitzgerald's fictitious tale pulled from the life of Irving Thalberg sure does flesh out Thalberg's manner and ways around a studio.
I read this at the same time reading Roland Flamini's 'Thalberg' about Irving's life.
Reading Fitzgerald was like reading Flamini as both illustrated the legendary producer's life.
Fitzgerald follows Thalberg closest with the studio scenes in the book.
Otherwise Thalberg's manner is well drawn out, though the personal circumstances noted in 'The Last Tycoon' are purely fictional to Thalberg's life.I'm not nutty about the writing.
There are certainly good lines and passages, but as a whole it is clearly in the development stage.Well worth reading if you are a Thalberg fan.
asi jsem cekala vic. nebylo to spatne, ale dost casto mi prislo, ze se nic nedeje a ctu nejaky dlouhy popis cehosi. vic se mi libila druha cast knihy Posledni magnat, ktera se odehrava v Hollywoodu. producent Stahr je jiste zajimava a silna osobnost, zajimavejsi nez Jay Gatsby. prostredi Hollywoodu je zajimave samo o sobe, o to vic v tehle zlate ere, kdy se producenti o filmy starali jako o svoje deti (mozna i vic). druhy pribeh pro me byl blizsi i v tom, ze ho vypravi zena...Cecilie zamilovana do hl. postavy Stahra...
This was quite an entertaining novel. It's quite sad that Fitzgerald past away before it could be finished as I'm sure it would have been one of my favourite books.It does have a similarity to The Great Gatsby, but I found the characters more likeable and redeemable. There also was more depth to the story (even in its unfinished state) that shows there was more to the story than appeared.
This was interesting to read after I'd read Stewart O'Nan's novel about Fitzgerald. I had seen the movie on television a while ago and really liked that. I see that Harold Pinter adapted the novel for film and added an ending. All the notes that FSF had for finishing the novel were very interesting and gave insight into his writing methods. The oft quoted "There are no second acts in American lives" is part of the notes.
This is one of those classics for which the status is always being challenged. Given that, I was impressed with Fitzgerald's writing and wit. I also was impressed with how far away that time seems--how much has happened and changed--and yet how much America is still haunted by a similar, strange culture of the rich.
I haven't read The beautiful and the damned to the end, but after reading The last Tycoon I have to re-think this. The great Gatsby and The last Tycoon are really interesting books, I greatly recommend to read. Not so easy to read, but perfect content, great idea and background make this book unforgettable.
Když jsem byl mladej, věci à la Gatsby jsem doslovně žral. Dneska mi vyhovuje víc Magnát. Ale F. S. psát umí, o tom žádná, rozhodně doporučuju.
Interesting. Unfinished novel and it ends abruptly. It does show a glimpse into Hollywood of those days.
Unfinished but the bits already written were good.Not particularly appealing characters but similar to Gatsby in that aspect.
если бы Фицджеральду удалось закончить эту книгу, она бы стала одной из любимых
The great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald (1925)
I read a different version which does not appear on this website. It was a standalone version, though it was in a set with the The Great Gatsby. It includes the notes from Fitzgerald's manuscripts.
