https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707738-boomerang
And in most cases, financial institutions (think AIG and Wall Street investment houses), and banks, private, public, or some combination, manage to externalize their debt, their greed and stupidity onto the national taxpayer and somehow keep themselves afloat.
Similar externalizations of cost have become standard operating practice, as governments step in to keep afloat too-big-to-fail corporate entities, often under the guise of keeping nations above water.
Even if we forget about trying to get back the money the rich stole from the rest of us since then, the increased fairness of the tax burden would make a huge difference in government’s ability to cover costs, including the cost of interest on the national debt that the looters incurred, and saddled us with, in order to feed their greed.
European Economies Collapse Under Collective Weight of Icelandic Elves, German Scheiße, Self-Hating Greeks, Suspicious IrishEnlightening (and Entertaining) Background from 2012 on Topics underlying Brexit and FrancofuirLolleepðpp Guild, Controlling Significant Portion of Iceland's EconomyI've been entertained and enlightened by every Michael Lewis book I've read, including Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game, which explores Major League Baseball's use of quantum mathematics, The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game, the heightened value of a left tackle in the National Football League, the stock market and financial shorting (
Do a Goodreads book search and marvel at the results.); but this one came to me on loan from a neighbor who heard I liked to read (bless his heart), and I felt obligated to look through it.
that to my surprise, took pride of place among a tall stack of ghoulish Halloween reads teetering on my nightstand.Lewis’s latest book is a cartoonish discussion of what happens to a society after it has been presented with almost unlimited credit, as many Western countries were between 2002 and 2008.
Like most good journalism, Lewis’s book is illustrated with intriguing trivia that at least flirts with logic ...
Michael Lewis is surprisingly racist and politically incorrect in this book. For entertainment's sake, he reduces entire nations to cartoon characters, essentially turning the world into the Looney Tunes. It's equal parts hilarious and frightening--the more you learn about the financial future of the global economy, the more you start to think of the world in terms of Daffy Duck and Bugs Bunny.This is less of a story and more of a collection of five separate articles about the lead up to the financial crises in Iceland, Ireland, Greece, Germany, and the US. It's almost scary how funny it is.
However, Lewis crosses the line with this book, which is a compilation of previously published magazine pieces about the financial crisis as it has played out in Iceland, Ireland, Greece, Germany and California.
Like all caricatures they have an element of truth but are fundamentally distorted.
The section on California was a little more interesting and nuanced, and I agreed with Lewis' conclusion about the fact that financial markets are based on extreme self-interest and will always find innocent victims if they are not controlled.
So read this book if you liked The Big Short, but it's not anywhere near as good.
Taken in tandem with Lewis's previous book, The Big Short, it's a hilarious and terrifying explanation of the present financial crisis (ruination, collapse, armageddon?)I was chatting to a couple of people the other day who really know finance and suchlike, and they objected that Lewis doesn't get everything right.
How in tarnation do you crash your dad's global economy?!" which besets us all when the newspaper headlines and the first item on TV news shows are along the lines of "the arse has fallen out of the financial trousers again".You want to know why Iceland tanked?
You want to laugh while you learn?Here's your book.
Once-wealthy nations such as Greece, Ireland, Iceland and Germany accrued gargantuan debts, causing governments, banks and other companies to crumble.
One of the characteristics common to both Iceland's financial collapse and Wall Street's is the absence of women (only one woman occupied a senior position in an Icelandic bank), who weren't given risk-taking jobs.
The woman in question, Kristin Pétursdóttir, quit her job in 2006 to set up a financial-services business run entirely by women, as she didn't like the reckless way men were running Icelandic banks.
Time and again, he tries to push the idea that recent financial problems are really not the fault of banks, but rather were caused by the lazy, greedy, average citizen.
"If there were any justice in the world", Lewis writes, "the Greek bankers would be in the streets marching to protest the morals of the ordinary Greek citizen." He tries to push the idea that greedy unions have pushed California to the point where it's about to descend into absolute anarchy -- ignoring the fact that most troubled economies (Greece, Portugal) run a debt to GDP of around 100%, whereas California has a debt to GDP ratio of less than 10%.
At 48mins 31secs - ye geezer states that Iceland will drop the kroner in favour of the Euro - wrong - Iceland is not in the EU.
Neither are full members.Iceland now wants to be ((candidate list)no financial surprise) and Norway strongly doesn't want to be.
This is written to make american home policies more palatable and is not a reflection of actual events.That patronising bit about Icelanders going down to Wall Street and saying 'we can do that' is not right AT ALL.
Icelanders had the money x 00000000 and US was skint - doh!
guess who played the bad boy with Icelandic kroner??
Now, being neither a neuroscientist nor an economist i cannot state the truth either way but it was an interesting thought which at least gave me, if not a total explanation for the insanity of the last few years of excess and irresponsibility, a small light which enabled me to nod in a ' well that does make some sort of sense'.
At one point he speaks of the Icelanders as 'having a feral streak in them, like a horse that's just pretending to be broken' and he states the evident truth that 'men not only trade more often than women but do so from a false faith in their own financial judgement'.
Who knew it could be so enjoyable reading about the financial crisis, explained with examples from several key areas of the world? Fascinating. Iceland, Greece, Ireland, USA -- these are some of the countries in what he calls the New Third World. We have been undone by our ancient lizard nature of greed, where short term satisfaction overwhelms common sense. Hilarious and sobering all at once.
As a huge Michael Lewis fan, I was a bit disappointed by this book. The concept was neat, but the lack of an overall narrative and the length of the five stories made them somewhat shallow. Even the best of the bunch (the US) won't tell you anything you don't already know.
In “Boomerang: Travels in the New Third World,” he trains his eyes on individuals in a number of countries, such as Iceland (where it all began), Greece, Ireland, and the United States, to illustrate the greater global economy and where finances have generally gone wrong.Through this personalization of money-making (and spending), he is able to show the bigger picture, introducing economic concepts so that they are integral to the storyline and not overwhelming to the reader.
He talks about the foibles of the human personality and why (despite logical conclusions) individuals with access to cheap credit (who knew better) fell for its lure anyway.In Iceland, for example, he demonstrates how investment banking overtook the nation, then sunk the economy.
In his wonderful book, “Moneyball”, which was ostensibly about baseball and the economics of the game, Lewis was actually writing about innovative and revolutionary thinking, and how our culture discourages, demeans, and tries to destroy new ways of doing things, even when---and especially when---those new ways are more efficient and more productive.“Boomerang” is Lewis’s follow-up to his book, “The Big Short”, which was about the 2008 U.S. financial disaster, following the collapse of the housing market bubble that nearly wiped out several huge banks.
Rather than come to any point about the crisis, Lewis is far too willing to fall back on the lazy tactic of criticizing the citizens of a given nation – the section about the Greeks' unwillingness to accept a financial deal authored by the same international business institutions that caused the crisis is harsher than any other section of the book, particularly anything he writes about a company.
This book really feels like the excuse Lewis slapped together in order to do some vacationing on his publisher's dime, and I was extremely disappointed in it coming off of The Big Short and Moneyball.
In that book, he covered the subprime mortgage market that lead to the 2007 housing bubble collapse, and the most shocking takeaway there was not that people were greedy and short-sighted, but that all the "experts," the brokers, the realtors, the bankers, the Federal Reserve officials, the "Big Money Men" - didn't actually have a clue!
As this is also the moment when the state begins to shovel out generous pensions, more than six hundred Greek professions somehow managed to get themselves classified as arduous: hairdressers, radio announcers, waiters, musicians, and on and on and on.Then Lewis comes back to the U.S., and looks at the dire financial woes of San Jose and Vallejo, two California cities with income levels that would be the envy of many countries, and both of which are financial basket cases.
I listened to the Recorded Books edition of this book, and Lewis has a laugh in his voice as he reads, and he has chosen to share with us the most ridiculous examples of human credulity, greed, and wanton foolishness one can see anywhere.
It surely makes it more interesting to watch the news.Likewise, listening to recent news of California’s plan for high speed rail has much more depth when one knows what Lewis tells us about the state of California’s finances.
Read this, or better still, listen when you are doing something rote.
I read these essays on Iceland, Greece, Ireland, Germany and California when they were first published in 2009/10/11 in Vanity Fair. It is hard re-reading them now again in book form and not think Michael Lewis is a GOD. IF you haven't read these, go to the Library, buy the book. GET off your butt, go to Vanity Fair and start reading his essays: http://www.vanityfair.com/search?quer... After you've read this read The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine, also by Michael Lewis. That is probably the most important financial book written in twenty years.
Each of the five sections of the book was fascinating in a different way: how various countries reacted to having a big pot of seemingly free money on offer, how they responded when things didn't turn out as well as they hoped, and what that says about the national character of each.
This chapter was less meaningful in terms of really understanding the global financial crisis, since I think here Lewis stretched his point a bit, but it was incredibly entertaining.And in the chapter on California, the portrait of Schwartzenegger was fascinating, both in its view of him as a politician beholden to no-one, who just tried to do the right thing, and in the way that it didn't matter.
This book is a collection of articles written for Vanity Fair about the sovereign debt crisis that happened in the aftermath of the global recession in 2008.
I learned a lot about the economic and culture of the countries from reading this and know understand a lot more about the undertones of the political strife now going on in Europe as a result of the sovereign debt crisis.
I read this just after finishing George Friedman's Flash Points: The Emerging Crisis in Europe and would recommend the two books together.
Some adjectives that describe this collection of essays by Michael Lewis: smart, clear, entertaining, breezy, moderately informative .
Those dealing with foreign economies (Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Germany) appear to be based on visits Lewis made to the countries in question between late 2008 and mid 2011.
My Irish cousins were dismissive of his account of the Irish economic meltdown, characterizing it as a "drive-by piece based on a five-day visit".
Even if his visit to Ireland was short, his account of events seems essentially accurate to me.
Michael Lewis is one of the more entertaining contributors to the genre.
Lewis almost completely abandons the Napoleonic narrative of history suggested by The Big Short in this one, where both success and disaster, no matter how broadly written, is basically the result of the choices of special people who are able to exploit unique opportunities to create economy shaking results.
Whereas the American crisis seems to be the result of a few very smart people either creating or identifying a generally hidden schism in the evaluation of certain mortgage backed securities (and the calamities that followed), the European economic disaster is characterized as having resulted not from personal greatness or systematic efficiency but from culture itself, at a level of generality so grotesque that the decisions of individuals become irrelevant.
[The Prime Minister], though, is a trained economist - just not a very good one.They do things differently in Iceland.
They allow female cats.Back in Athens, Lewis interviews a finance minister about how Greece ever got into the European community in the first place when their financial situation was clearly not healthy.The finance minister stresses that this isn't a simple matter of the government lying about the expenditures.
What goes around, comes around: following the financial meltdown around the worldIf you’re scratching your head over the financial news from Europe these days and wondering what on earth has been happening in Greece, Ireland, and elsewhere that has everyone, especially the Germans, in a state of panic, Michael Lewis will make it all clear to you with his customary straight talk, humor, and insight.
It collects five essays Lewis wrote focusing on five specific areas of the world: Iceland, Greece, Ireland, Germany, and California.
Iceland is a fascinating case as Lewis explains how a country with a population of 300,000 went from fishing to banking within a generation thanks to fishing quotas and over-education.
Ireland and Germany are both interesting essays too, but Lewis' California essay - where he describes the way that the public services pensions are bringing the state to its knees - is also mind-bending.
Thanks to an Amazon reviewer (whose review is no longer there), I was able to get this book of previously-published articles via Lexis-Nexis and the Vanity Fair website.
I hadn't heard of Michael Lewis until I saw his interview for this book on The Daily Show (yeah, I don't get out much).
Anyway, free book in hand, I thoroughly enjoyed his observations about the meltdowns all over Europe, even if I never completely understood WTF it was all about.
Still, my recurring thought throughout the entire book was, "But....who....why.....HOW DID THEY THINK THIS COULD WORK???"Also, I had no idea that male Icelanders were such feral alphas.
Not every book has exploding Range Rovers.
Those who work in jobs classified as “arduous” can retire and start collecting pensions, he adds, “as early as 55 for men and 50 for women”; more than 600 Greek professions have somehow managed “to get themselves classified as arduous: hairdressers, radio announcers, waiters, musicians, and on and on and on.” (http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/27/boo...)Lewis ends the book with the story of a British pheasant – which was eaten by a fox after it got too fat to fly.
In this book he comes up a marvelous metaphor to explain the root cause of the financial crisis: alone, in a dark room with a big pile of money and easy credit, how did different countries react when it seemed they could grab the cash and get away with it?
Alone in a dark room with a pile of money, Americans knew exactly what they wanted to do, from the top of society to the bottom.
Of course, the whole financial crisis can all be explained in one word: greed.
4  stars. Wow. This was excellent. I’m very happy to have this eye-opening knowledge.The entertainment value is the strange incompetence and stupidity of people. But it is also depressing. Terrible things are happening to ordinary people. I loved hearing it as an audiobook, educating me while I was doing other things. Reading this as a physical book might be less desirable for me. In the book the author describes himself as a “financial disaster tourist.” He travels to and writes about five area
In the book the author describes himself as a “financial disaster tourist.” He travels to and writes about five areas: Iceland, Greece, Ireland, Germany, and California.
In Ireland homeowners can’t walk away from their homes like in the U.S. If the bank forecloses and takes the property, the homeowner still owes the money.
For example, he states “the city had 1,013 claimants with half a billion dollars in claims but only $6 million to dole out to them.” “In August 2011, a judge approved the bankruptcy plan for Vallejo.
Assuming Vallejo dispersed all the money at once today (for example the $6 million) how much will go to “retired workers” (police, firefighters, teachers, and others)?
Boomerang is a surprisingly entertaining book about the recent economic collapse(s).
Author Michael Lewis undertakes what he calls something like a "financial disaster vacation" and visits, in turn, Iceland, Greece, Germany, and ultimately, California.
Lewis is fascinated by the human capacity for greed and by how greed easily overwhelms intelligence, experience, and common sense.
Rather than approaching economic problems from an overly didactic scientific lens, Lewis looks at everything through an insightful human lens.
Just pay, pensions, and health care would be easily affordable under the tax rates that existed in the 50's and 60's.
