https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155882.The_Way_to_Rainy_Mountain
The grandmother was full of resentment; she was jealous, you see, for the child had not yet been weaned from its mother's breasts.
She wondered whether the child were a boy or a girl, and therefore she made two things, a pretty ball and a bow and arrows.
When she returned, she saw that the ball was full of arrows, and she knew then that the child was a boy and that he would be hard to raise.
The boy was caught up in the snare, and he cried and cried, but the grandmother sang to him and at last he fell asleep.
N. Scott Momaday dedicated The Way to Rainy Mountain “in wonder, in faith, and in love” to his mother and father.
This heartfelt depiction of the Kiowa Indian oral tradition encompasses all aspects of mythical tradition, historical accounts, and Momaday’s personal experience of his culture.
His childhood memories add an almost mournful tone to the peace, as he reflects on something that was once whole and is now only in the hearts of the few remaining Kiowas.
The memory of his grandmother’s death is perhaps his most thought provoking memory, as he explains the cycle of life; this can be readily paralleled to the culture of the Kiowa people.
Momaday weaves together three narratives: The stories, historical perspectives, and personal memories.
The end result is much more a family history than a collection of Native American tales.
Unless I believed that Momaday's ancestors were the most important people in the tribe's past, their story simply has too much predominance for my taste.
There were other great people, some of whom are mentioned in passing but never expanded upon, whose stories I'd also like to hear.That said, the narratives are truly compelling.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who is interested in Native American history and legends.
I'm re-reading this book (and the accompanying "teaching the way ..." because a colleague asked me to sub for him in his Native Lit class this week.
It's been some time since I read this book, and I have to say I realize with some shame that now, at age 45, I am finally ready for it.
Also, my colleague has given me a sheaf of notes, across the top of which he's written "possible hierophones in Rainy Mountain" - which opened all kinds of doors for what I was already thinking.
Hier = sacred, phone = sound.
WORDS are sacred sounds that allow transformation.
Momaday is Kiowa, of course, and he won a Pulitzer prize, of course, and his personal voice is celestial, but laying aside all that (as if it were possible), an author or aspiring author of the Great Plains has to go here.
Be conscious of your sense of place, grounded in memory, and how it defines you and your work.2.
Think about how your work sounds.
Cultivate the talent of reading your work to others.3.
Master your home genre, and as you master the craft, mix it up, at the right time, intentionally.
My son brought this home & I ended up reading it because of the hype that it was supposed to be a very important book.
I like that he tells the legends of an American Indian tribe of his ancestors & then tells us the facts that they were based on &/or that are able to be researched.
My son had to read this for class & answer questions.
Simple questions, in regards to the legends & how they were proven by the facts, would have helped him remember more about this Indian tribe & their ways.
Like one long dream-memory for me. As I read, I thought many times, "I've been there and felt that!" Or "yes, my grandmother's hands were that way, too!" or "I remember my grandmother doing that when I was a child"...The book reminded me that the Wichita Mountains is good medicine for everyone.I also enjoyed Louise Erdrich's essay, "The Names of Women" included in the back, about "all the mothers going back into the shadows, when women wore names that told us who they were."
Breathtaking. Gotta read it again.
Scott Momaday's unique book in a class this semester where we discussed the overlying themes and message of The Way to Rainy Mountain.Told in a three part process through myth, historical, and personal journey, Momaday relates the oral traditions and his own connection to the Kiowa people.
It's rich in message, history, and myth - recording oral tradition that, before, was just one generation away from dying.
al.) is an Indigenous theory that suggests all Indigenous communities have specific ties to land/place, language, ceremony, and sacred history; furthermore, each of these elements is interwoven and they rely and react to one another.
I strongly believe that this theory stems directly from the prose found in Momaday's The Way to Rainy Mountain.
I have never read a book that so directly shows the connection to Indigenous peoples and place, to their language, to their ceremony, and to their sacred history.
The prologue opens with the cosmology of the Kiowa, showing how they believe they came into existence and delving into some of their sacred history.
By means of words can a man deal with the world on equal terms.
*sigh* Words are life.
:D Plus he writes about my mountains (the Rockies) and I think we are connected in our love affair with them.
I just need gorgeous mountains in my life!
:D "Once in his life a man ought to concentrate his mind upon the remembered earth, I believe.
He ought to imagine that he touches it with his hands at every season and listens to the sounds that are made upon it.
He ought to imagine the creatures there and all the faintest motions of the wind.
Momaday is a Kiowa author, perhaps best known for his novel House Made of Dawn, which is on my list to read.
Each chapter has a one page selection from Kiowa myth or legend, a paragraph or two of history, and a short reminiscence from the author's life, and most also have an illustration drawn by his father in the style of Kiowa art.
Momaday's collection of short Kiowa fables (each followed by a paragraph long bit of history and a parable of reflection) reads like a collection of prose poems. Interesting, some of them quite compelling, but overall, a hit or miss collection in that regard. Still, its insights into Kiowa culture are quite interesting.
A wonderful experience - the images both from his prose and his father's drawings will stay with me. A book to be slowly savored.
but to take it on its own it is about the alien and the unknown as feet in old age and death, that is to say that even though he calls himself Rock Tree Boy he is A Man Without Fantasy.That's the difference between being a bear and wearing a Jordan t-shirt with Hanes underwear.
In answering Hopi Charles Loloma about how to assume the traditional identity Momaday says, "I think that each of us who realizes that the native traditional values are important has a great obligation to convince the young of that, who may be wavering with alternatives...[of] the dominant society which is destroying the world in which it lives" (9).
His descriptions of the importance of particular animals, the landscape of the Kiowa area, the relationships between tribes, and the beliefs shows great insight into the Native American and Kiowan beliefs and ways.My favorite passage from the book showed how wise the Kiowas were , "If an arrow is well made, it will have tooth marks upon it.
The arrow went straight to the enemy’s heart." (Momaday, 46) This shows the calmness and the quick thinking that the man had in order to save him and his wife from danger.
I hope to find another book like this and would recommend to people looking for a quick read on Native American life.
Most of this book is divided into two-page sections: on the first page is the narration of a myth; on the top of the second page is what Momaday calls the "voice of historical commentary"; and below that is a reminiscence from Momaday's own life.
Through these two-page sections, the reader gets a glimpse into the oral tradition of the Kiowa and a window into how they saw themselves.
The reader sees how and why the myths of the Kiowa were important to the nation and how they could be important to an individual.
In this book, however, the reader sees the complexities of the Kiowa.
I'm not all that sure how to categorize this book, other than Beautiful.
Each numbered section is in three parts—History, Myth, Memoir.
It tells the search Momaday undertook to find his roots (Kiowa), to reconnect to the land, the people, his family.A fast reader, I thought I'd have this book devoured in a relatively short time.
Not just the words, but also the artistic way they were placed next to each other and on the page as a whole.When I finished the book, I realized I had learned a great deal.
What a beautiful way to get an education!
The Way to Rainy Mountain is a beautiful, and informative depiction of Native American life - specifically the Kiowa people. It is really quick - and fairly easy to follow. Knowing nothing about Native American oral tradition - this book was an interesting read. But, the stories told aren't totally cohesive (but sometimes are) and this made the book feel very choppy to me. Overall, a great read to learn about Native Americans.Ages 12+
If you want proof that the ancestral voice, the historic voice, and the personal voice are indistinguishable, read this book. If you are interested in poetry or mountain tops or mythology or things that are dead and alive at the same time, read this book. If you feel any sense of responsibility or participation in any events that have transpired in the American subcontinent, read this book. If you have loved something wild and lost it, read this book. If you are still searching for it, read this book. Just read this book.
4/5 starsRead this for university and absolutely loved it. Such an incredible look at the history of a Native tribe, their own lore and myths, and how, despite how the way they are remembered being different, they still span generations and positively impact descendants as much as they did ancestors.
I understand what he is trying to do, I just didn’t think the sparse nature of the work did him any favors. The three voices were interesting and distinct. The prologue as a thesis for the rest of the work worked well for me, too.
A beautiful little book, part memoir, part Kiowa stories, and part black and white graphics by the author's father. It was a joy to read. Somehow I missed it when it first came out, it may bear rereading at some point. Very much about Kiowa life and culture and world view.
"A word has power in and of itself. It comes from nothing into sound and meaning; it gives origin to all things."  I had to read this for school and, while it wasn't my favorite, I did enjoy quite a few stories within it!
The three voices play off of each other in interesting ways, and the information about the Kiowa culture is invaluable.
This book is a fascinating oral history of the Kiowa Indians. The short snippets make it easy to take a break as needed and it is a quick read. The artwork makes it enjoyable also.
Momaday is able to weave myth, memoir, history, and place into a compelling, profound, and beautiful book that I would highly recommend.
Fragments from Norton's American Literature Anthology
Gorgeous beyond measure. A must read!!
The language & imagery in this are so beautiful.
