https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110945.Metroland

Metroland is Julian Barnes' first published novel.
I've never heard of it, but then again, I hadn't heard of Julian Barnes himself until two years ago.I've picked this up without reading the blurb, solely based on the fact that it was written by Barnes.
The only other book of his I read was Levels of Life which blew me away.Metroland is a coming of age novel of sorts.
Most of his ruminations are about his high school years, alongside his sidekick, Toni.
Has Christopher become the epitome of what he and Toni used to deride.
Julian Barnes, you are one sleek writer.
I’ve recently read, and posted reviews of two other Julian Barnes’ novels, “The Sense of an Ending” and “A History of the World in 10  Chapters,” both of which I thoroughly enjoyed. “Metroland” reflects some of the same themes: obnoxiousness of young schoolboys who have read a few important books but not nearly enough, growing up, love, and memory. This being my third book by Barnes, I’m starting to get a feel for his authorial panache, and I can’t help being charmed by it. You get the sense tha
I’ve recently read, and posted reviews of two other Julian Barnes’ novels, “The Sense of an Ending” and “A History of the World in 10 ½ Chapters,” both of which I thoroughly enjoyed.
“Metroland” reflects some of the same themes: obnoxiousness of young schoolboys who have read a few important books but not nearly enough, growing up, love, and memory.
And here’s where Barnes’ wonderful infatuation with irony comes to a head: he falls in love with Marion, has a child with her, takes on a mortgage and respectable job that he actually enjoys, and turns into one of those hideous bourgeois that he hated as a boy.
In Paris he remembers his French girlfriend Annick and now he has a mundane marriage.While this is a novel, it’s also a reflection of Christopher Lloyd’s life.
I really thought this book had a lot to offer, in the way of ideals, morals, relationships, love and just the way we view our lives.
Looking back on our lives, it’s easy to remember the good and the bad but there is a whole lot in between we tend to forget, so when Christopher is looking at his past, he misses so much.A beautiful novel, while very short has so much in it to offer.
I have been hooked on Julian Barnes' writing for years; he has an extraordinarily accomplished style that is unmistakable even when he is at his most experimental. This is his début novel, and in some ways it is more conventional than his later work - it has none of the manipulation of form found in A History of the World in 10 Chapters, for instance, or the surreal plot twists of England, England. But in its own way it is quite an unusual novel - one in which nothing really happens; events whic
But not in a biting way - a scene towards the end involving a drunken man feeling up his wife could have been many things, but it came across as genuinely tender and moving (the last words of the chapter are "feeling puzzled").The book progresses from boyhood questing after the meaning of Art and Life, via attempting to find himself in Paris (more name-dropping to skim over, although I have at least briefly "lounged about at Shakespeare & Company"), to a strangely anti-climactic return to suburbia, before concluding, optimistically, that simple happiness is both possible and desirable."But I was thinking in the future conditional rather than the plain future; it's the tense that minimises responsibility." A classic Barnes line: is it just a kind of learnèd pun, or an important message to the reader?
The second kind see the world as signifying too much.
Barnes'  Metroland is written for that second type of teenager.
Late in the book, when both main characters have grown into what society would doubtless call adulthood, the less contented of the two confronts his old friend:"Remember when we were at school, when life had a capital letter and it was all Out There somehow, we used to think that the way to live our lives was to discover or deduce certain principles from which individual decisions could be worked out?
This is the first book by one of my favourite authors and I had always wanted to check out the beginnings of what is an exemplary literary career. Metroland showcases shades of the brilliance of Barnes and is a gateway into understanding what to expect from his other books (for readers new to the author).The book is divided into parts which follow the phases of the protagonist's life as he matures and transforms into an adult. The first part comes across as a coming of age novel wherein the circ
Metroland showcases shades of the brilliance of Barnes and is a gateway into understanding what to expect from his other books (for readers new to the author).The book is divided into parts which follow the phases of the protagonist's life as he matures and transforms into an adult.
What follows is the settling of middle age, where life teaches him the lessons of maturity and stability and shapes the worldview which is broader and more empathic.The book is characterised by the showcasing of the evolution of the protagonist, from a obstinate teenager to a wilful adult.
An enjoyable and entertaining modern classic. I liked the middle and final part more, understandably I couldn't handle the pretentiousness of the first part well.
This book takes you on a nostalgic trip to the all-knowing adolescence and explores what it means to "grow up".
He is the narrator to whom life and adulthood are concepts to be theorised and researched and with his friend Tim, creates bourgeois theories/games.
Their thoughts are beyond their age and actions typical of boys.
We see the slow change in growing up.
The change is subtle and we read it in actions.The books comes a full circle when the initial almost incoherent sense making of the world is revisited in adulthood.
The characters are not over the top dramatic and more slice of life than an Eric Segal book character.
I read The sense of an ending by Julian Barnes only because he won the Man Booker Prize.
There was so much talk about it being too short a book to win and lots of other nonsense.
After I finished reading this short book I had to go back to the beginning and read Barnes’ first novel, Metroland.I love Metroland and it confirmed my admiration for Barnes’ writing.Metroland, written in 1980, follows Christopher in three parts: Metroland 1963, Paris 1968 and Metroland II 1977.
This is why he can write short books and win prizes at the same time.
This is a somewhat difficult book to describe. Part coming-of-age, part adulthood, part social commentary, part everyday musings of life. The style is quite easy to read - a lot to ponder as it is with Barnes. I like the character development and the lack of any big plot booms, as life is not about those. I will think about this one quite a bit.
¡Mi edición no tiene una traducción de las frases en francés!(*) Es una novela de iniciación, básicamente.
El protagonista, Christopher Lloyd, es un hombre de clase media que va rememorando las distintas etapas de su vida, que se reparten entre los suburbios de Londres y París.
Lo que sí me gusta es la descripción de los alrededores de Londres y la importancia que se le da al arte en sí.Hay una gran cantidad de frases en francés (incluyendo la interminable y media pretenciosa lista de libros que menciona Chris), como ya señalé, que al no contar con una traducción parecen gritarte en la cara "deberías haber aprendido algo".
Wellwritten. Male-centric. Half-baked.
3.5A somewhat enjoyable novel.
It was too short in my opinion.
It ended just when it got interesting.How fitting it was that this was my 14th and final Barnes' novel, although it was his first.
But don't worry, I still plan on reading two of his short story collections before the New Year's Eve.I'm glad to see that this was still the same Barnes as we know him.
he was already a huge admirer of Flaubert's as well as the French culture.
"Metroland" deals with the rebellious youth versus the adults who've given up on their ideals from youth and "sold out".
I am yet to find a Barnes novel that I dislike. This is a complete opposite of Flaubert's Parrot or History of the World in 10 and 1/2 chapters, but you can see the beginnings of Barnes' love for art, France and making you think about stuff, like growing up, and what happiness is, etc. Some say that they don't see a happy ending in Chris' story, I think I do, or a least that he's getting there. There's nothing wrong with being happy in marriage, with kids and well payed job that you DO like.
I really enjoyed the banter between the protagonist, Christopher, and his best friend Toni.
Both are believable characters and when we see them all grown up in the last part of the book, their evolution from childhood into adulthood seems natural and believable too.
Christopher has conformed to suburban life and is quite happy with it and Toni still seems to be truer to the life they pictured for themselves when they were younger.
But Toni doesn't seem to be that happy.
He is a frustrated writer who can't seem to sell his books and might be jealous of Chris' happiness.
Frankly, there are very few authors who dissect the vicissitudes of life and pave their way into its deeper, evolved understanding in today’s time; I for one regard Barnes as one of the authors who masters this skill through his prose.
Christopher and Toni are a delightful pair and I really would LOVE to be friends with them because you want people talking about “Life with a capital L” with a minuscule experience.
Besides, I liked the subtle satire on capitalism and bourgeoise lifestyle used in the literature.
I am looking forward to more of Barnes.
Read in English, if you can, much more enjoyable reading and gives you real perspective into Barnes’ talent.
Мне надо было прочитать эту книгу в 16 лет, когда моя экзистенциальная неудовлетворенность (с) была на пике.
During a strained meeting in the latter, Toni scrapes by a punching after a series of sardonic remarks about Chris’s wife, their flower-bed and general mutual comfort (an ironic hark-back to the mocked marriage confirmation class where Chris noted, ‘the most exciting phrase was ...
Having disentangled himself from the perpetual bewilderment of teenagehood, overcome enough of his maladroit handling of women to secure one and thus, a sex 'life' (the key all along?), he finds a sort of benign tedium in the comfortable regularity of conventional, middle-class suburban life.
The debut novel of Julian Barnes is a coming of age story that extends into the solid rungs of adulthood and contrasts the diverging paths of teenage best friends Toni, who retains the stark intellectual and emotional outlook of rebellious adolescence, and Chris, who either matures or sells-out, as you like it.As teenagers in sixties London, Toni and Chris bonded over a shared intellectualism, a revulsion towards their suburban surroundings, a conviction that Art was the most important thing in life, and an impatient waiting for that time that they would be Out There Living, and doing so better than the contemptible adults around them did.
It’s interesting to see how his writing style has been exclusive starting from this book.
Even though it evolved in time, this prelude to his bibliography has very basic elements starting from this story; references to Flaubert and use of the French language.This book tells the story of Christopher, starting from his childhood and ends in his adulthood.
I wish these discussions were longer, as well as the book.I also have to add that at least basic knowledge in French language (even in French literature) might help a lot for the fluency of reading.
I'm glad I picked it up, though the first 72 pages of this slim novel were a bit of a slog for me.
Eventually the novel jumps ahead, and I found the later sections far more interesting, as Christopher comfortably settles into a bourgeois lifestyle while Toni, no longer such a monumental presence in Chris' life, still holds fiercely (and foolishly, in my opinion) to the ideals of their youth.
Nonetheless, I was content to push along, even when I wasn't entirely sure precisely what Chris and Toni were talking about, and in the end I found the book quite pleasurable, with the final pages being especially beautiful, evocative, and poignant.
So had the power not failed or had a british reader not recommended the book "The Sense of an ending" or had I did not see the entire work by Julian Barnes the probability of me reading this book would have been minimal.Julian Barnes in this book tells us the Story of two Boys/Lads/Teenagers/Men through different ages of Life.
Chris first Sexual experience, His first Love, his first break up leading to his marriage, his conflict with Tony was saddening part of the book & that's where the Writer slowly loses the grip but all's well that end well.
El libro es mucho más que esa sinopsis lamentable.
Pues no, se divide en tres partes de la vida del protagonista, pero aún así creo que no hay pierde.
Increíble la caracterización y los diálogos que decía cada una(Annick y Marion).
Pero en especial el personaje de Annick fue el que me gustó, me sorprendía la naturaleza con que se desenvolvía, su sinceridad, era solo ella.
Sin duda, estaba ante el mejor personaje femenino que he leído.
Le pongo cuatro estrellas porque tiene partes que son admirables y para destacar, mayormente en los diálogos.
Julian Barnes lijkt wel originaliteit na te streven, maar zeker in het eerste deel van het boek komen de personages (daardoo?) vooral een beetje onnatuurlijk over.
Er zullen ongetwijfeld tieners zijn die zijn als Tony en Christopher in Metroland, maar zoals vaak in boeken en films het geval is met kinderen en jongeren, komen ze iets té eigenwijs en bijdehand over.
Maar, misschien waren tieners in de jaren zestig wel echt zo :)Het boek wordt beter vanaf het tweede deel, waarin Christopher in Parijs woont om onderzoek te doen.
Het verhaal komt dan minder geforceerd over en er lijkt ook meer een lijn in te zitten.
My first thought is, I can't believe that this book isn't more well-known. It has the feel of a classic coming-of-age novel to me. It details the way in which an irreverent, anti-anything-conventional teenager ends up becoming a married suburbanite. The 1963 section of the book so perfectly captured adolescence that it was startling--I wanted to copy something down off pretty much every page.
One of the things I've learned is that one sign of adulthood is learning that it is okay to be "normal" (and okay to not be). Our narrator learns this but his friend fails to.Anyone who has been an overly-intellectual adolescence can appreciate Barnes' wry and affectionate humor in his portrayal of the narrator and his friend in their contempt of the "bourgeoisie."
I think this was the second Barnes novel I read. It was tremendously funny, and I actually did laugh out loud on a couple of occasions. I've tagged it as biography on my shelves because it's loosely based on his childhood experiences. I know that not everyone was a pretentious and precocious schoolboy, but it resonated with me.
Just couldn't get into this one......I read reviews about how clever it was and subtle....that all went right over my head... I just found the characters as school children annoying....and a little bland after.The highlight for me in this book was the uncle....
