https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44752.The_King_of_the_Castle
This one was about an art restorer coming in her deceased father's place without a head's up to the Ol' Comte.
For some gossipy non-gothic spoilers...The H in this story is a manwhore (he uses the word "promiscuous" so no denial there), and doesn't promise he'll forever leave his old ways behind him.
Pretty interesting concept, especially since he said it (view spoiler)[during the proposal.
(hide spoiler)] Pretty scary, huh?
If you like all that dark and creepy stuff mixed in with your romance, then you might like this one.
Not her very best but still pretty good.
It has all of the elements which I love in a gothic novel: the beautiful old chateau, which has dark passageways and secret dungeons, an innocent impressionable girl who arrives at said house, only to discover that the owner of the house is dark, brooding, full of secrets and irresistible.Dallas has always followed in her father's footsteps in the profession of restoring old paintings.
She also becomes obsessed with the Comté, even after hearing all of the dark rumours surrounding the death of his wife.This isn't a masterpiece of a book, however, it is thoroughly enjoyable, filled with mystery and suspense, and I battled to put it down.
I was reading Victoria Holt’s description of Dallas Lawson’s first glimpse of Chateau Gaillard when I was struck by this passage:“There are occasions in life when reality is more exciting, more enchanting than the picture the imagination has supplied – but they are rare; and when they come they should be savored to the full.”Admittedly, these are the musings of a fictional character, the product of Holt’s creative writing talents.
This was especially true when Dallas learns that she’s being interviewed not by the great Comte himself, but by his young cousin Phillipe de la Talle.The conversation itself was “tactically elegant”, like a conversational form of fencing.
I used to love Victoria Holt's books, so when I found The King of the Castle buried in the back of one of my bookshelves, I had to reread it to see if I would love it still.
In many ways, it did hold up for me, but I suspect that this time I was more aware of the author's formula than I used to be.
I liked that the heroine of the story is a woman of education and skills and I like how she finds her way to the chateau and demands that the Comte respect her abilities as an art restorer, just as he would have her father.
Dallas settles in to life at the Chateaux and begins work on the paintings, but in typical Holt fashion our heroine soon finds things amiss in the household.
His daughter Genevieve is a spoiled fourteen year old brat with a penchant for shutting doors at the most inappropriate times (remember that), a mystery surrounding some Emeralds lost during the Revolution along with Dallas' discovery of a long hidden wall painting that may reveal a clue to the location of those emeralds.
I read all of Victoria Holt mystery/romance books in my 30s. Holt books are a higher caliber of romance fiction than something like Harlequins. Historically accurate. Good recreational reading with something to keep you turning pages.
I think Victoria Holt is my favorite author. She writes mysteries that have a touch of romance. She wrote back in the 60's and 70's so they are clean and good ol' fun.
I don't usually have any interest in romance fiction (though I do enjoy romantic fanfiction, for very different reasons), so it surprised me the first time I read this to actually enjoy that aspect of the story.
The mysteries of the plot don't feel like they were created just to have something to hang the romance upon, which is a pleasant and refreshing difference from most books of this "historical romance" type that I've encountered in the past.
I have always been a fan of historical mystery/romance novels, thus I liked this book from the first page.
I like Victoria Holt’s style – strong female lead, juicy mystery, misunderstood male characters and unexpected villains.This book is a very light read.
The chateau made a perfect setting for a mystery novel.I also liked learning more about the work involved in art restoration and wine making.
It was good to see Dallas being of strong character, working hard to become independent and believing that she can achieve anything.
This story is set in times when women depended on men and/or their families and long before feminism impowered them.
This book checks off all the gothic essentials (big old house, domineering man, dead wife, morally ambiguous other guy) plus the Victoria Holt added bonus of "kid in trouble".
A part that stood out to me was the heroine's profession as a restorer of antique paintings and buildings.
I had trouble pinning down when it took place since it was never explicitly stated, but I'm fairly sure it was the 1890s.
Fun times in wine country with dungeons and mysterious missing jewels.Read as part of my gothic kick while on vacation.

Just not a great book.I feel like every time I reread a gothic romance that I read as a teen, I see the similarities to Jane Eyre, and this story was no exception.The first wife was dead, but otherwise there were so many similarities.
So I didn't love any characters in the book, and had a hard time believing or investing in the romance, so while I finished it, and really couldn't remember whodunit (and what they done) until the end of the story, I can't say I enjoyed myself a lot.
Suspense, romance, history, a chateau, a vineyard, a wild child, ah bliss. The heroine was no wilting flower. She had pluck, intelligence. She was amused upon discovering her weaknesses, but didn't try to justify them. My favorite quote from the book; "I did not love him for his virtues." A fantastic read.
This year I began re-reading Victoria Holt's books that I had first read as a teenager and because I had a sketchy list of ones I had read, I just started from the beginning again and find that I am enjoying them just as much as I did the first time.
Holt is the master of the Gothic romance/mystery, and she never fails to not disappoint.
I will not spoil the plot for anyone, but Holt throws in a mystery along with the romance and keeps you guessing until almost the end of the book.
Anyone who likes this genre should read Holt's books.
Bu kitabi biraz daha vasatti.
Really more of a 4.5. This was a good one. :)
Mi historia con los libros de Victoria Holt es algo que viene de largo.
Curiosamente sus personajes femeninos siempre suelen ser fuertes mujeres independientes que abandonan sus hogares por razones varias, aunque la preferida siempre es que van a trabajar generalmente al servicio del protagonista, y este protagonista siempre suele uno oscuro, como en buena novela gótica, y no siempre redimible.
Bueno, en realidad no son 5 sino 4,5 pero como soy así de buena se las pongo todas, pero lo cierto es que no puedo ser imparcial, porque como he dicho antes las historias de esta autora, y esta también, son parte de mi infancia-preadolescencia, porque contribuyeron a que mi amor por la lectura siguiera creciendo, así que sí, le doy las 5 estrellas porque cuando un libro te es querido no necesitas más explicación.
My mom & I read a bunch of Victoria Holt novels when I was a teen-ager.
I came across this in a Half Price Books, and I thought I'd read it for old time's sake.
I expected my adult self to be kind of bored, but I was so wrong about that.
I got totally sucked in and I completely enjoyed it.What my adult self did notice was how much she ripped off--er, borrowed from Jane Eyre.
I mean, there's a reason Jane Eyre worked, right?I'm wishing I had another Victoria Holt novel to read right now.

I do love a good gothic novel. It has romance, intrigue, and it's totally clean. An artisan come to restore old paintings falls in love with the mysterious lord of the manor who is rumored to have murdered his first wife...and then there is the mystery of the long lost emeralds, worth a fortune, of course. I love this kind of book.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I like the detail revolving around Dallas' profession and the mischief caused by the child. It was easy to guess most of the plot but I still had to finish the book to discover why the Comte's wife died.
A new favorite. This book delivered from beginning to end. Each character had such a strong personality and background you just wanted to know more. The outcomes were just as thrilling as the mysteries, I couldn't put it down.
Terrible. It was one of two books I got from the library for Spring Break reading. The heroine had no admirable qualities and I wasn't sure why she was in love with the hero. All I wanted was a fluffy, happy beach read!
Loved it! I am so excited to read more Victoria Holt novels! New find!
Well, let's put it this way: I liked these when I read them in high school, and I imagine someone looking for a light romantic mystery would like them as well.
Second time through. I enjoyed it as much this time as I did years ago!
Gothic historical fiction/romance.
Victoria Holt is my favorite author. This is one of my favorite books.
