https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/617148.Plexus
And here is that list, it's fantastic:jeremiad, sisyphean, lied, horripilation, somnolence, efflorescence, plangent, ken, asperity, sorties, peregrinations, dithyrambs, colloquies, veridical, prestidigitator, lugubrious, semaphore, prate, cymbalon, bagatelle, mufti, pederasts, anent, sally, purlieus, fettle, jackanapes, palaver, celerity, sagacity, jocosely, cordon, viands, quorum, euchre, velleity, brogans, runneled, cortege, bantam, metempsychosis, limitrophe, steppes, verdure, lilliputian, eclosion, amanuensis, geodetic, quaternary, decan, thaumaturgists, fecund, circumlocutiousness (led me to prolix which I had to look up as well), acephalic, cantharides, crinology*, cacchination*, coterminous, cicerone, cimex (bedbug yuck!), lectularis*, cognomen, pasha, caparisoned, panoplies, verdigris, taboret, ructions, halvah, kirschwasser, strega, russe*, inveigle, arnica, cosmocrator, quoits, prepollent, parlous, anacoluthon, sesquipedalian (actually means one who uses long words LOL), gimcrack, socdolager*, gazabo, couvert, bonhomie, numismatics, celesta, telesme*, alderman, wend, thoracic, ablatives, gerundives, postprandial, palliation, dint, spifflicated, quondam, rambla, souks, encysted, funicular, bobolink, shandygaff, hodcarrier (hod was in the dictionary but not hodcarrier), tyro, chiffonier, auk, foraminifera, plaidoyer*, abstruse, samovar, porphyry, ebullition and percipience.The starred words are the ones I could not define.
I actually looked up each and every one.
I feel like any laudatory words on my part would simply do an unforgivable injustice to this man's writing. I keep having to stand back and re-read passages and whole chapters just because of their layering, so subtle on the surface and so complex in their structure, writing that seems to have just been carelessly thrown on the page but is in fact of a destructive force for those who understand it. Or, as is my case, for those who humbly try to...
Henry Miller is the only artist i am really regret that I'd never meet him.
He would be - without a doubt - my favorite friend, and I'd cling to him everywhere just to hear him talk.On the contrary of Sexus, plexus doesn't contain porn scenes, only a brief undetailed group sex scene.
The time the novel covers is the first years after Miller married Mona, he was then a faithful lover and husband.I'm wondering since i start reading Miller how a character completely imaginable by him will look like, then Claude appear, and thanks god that Miller keep wrote only about himself and real people he known once.The most remarkable parts in Plexus are- Dave Olinski the 8 languages man from Tel Aviv trying to sell Miller an insurance policies.- The first attempts to be a full-time writer after quitting his job.
آخر كتاب في هذه السنة ( 2014 )، كتاب الصلبِ الورديِّ الطويل للميللر المجنون، العابث، الزاهد، الحريق، الهادئ، الصوفي، الأبله، المثالي، اللص، العاشق، العربيد ...
القراءةُ للميللر أمتعتني بحق، وهو يستمتع أيضاً عندما يقرأُ، لكن متعته مختلفة وعميقة - يقول : " إذا كنت أقرأ كتاباً وتصادفَ أني وقعت على فقرة رائعة أغلِق الكتاب على الفور وأخرج لأتمشّى .
ودعني أشرح أن هذا "المخلوق الآخر" هو دائماً نوعٌ من الـ alter ego (الأنا الآخر) .
وهذا الإجراء، هذا الطقس، إن صحَّ التعبير، دائماً واحد: اتصالٌ فوريٌّ يجري على الجبهاتِ كلها .
إن الله خلقَ العالمَ ومن ثم ولجَهُ: هذا هو معنى الخليقة ".
A rambling, sometimes dense book that has rare moments of insight about the artistic life. Was 600 pages and could have been 300. Not Miller's best, but still an enjoyable read for Miller fans.
هنرى ميللر كاتب بائس سعيد شهوانى فيلسوف انسان يجمع كل المتناقضات يبحث عن معنى فتضيع معه
فبعد يوم طويل من العمل والالتزام الاجتماعي وعندما آوي إلى فراشي بحثا عن الراحة تكون هذه الرواية في الانتظار كي تنقض الهموم واحدا تلو الآخر, الحياة جميلة بعيني هنري كما النوم هانئ بعد قراءته.هنا أحد المقاطع التي أحببتها جدّا وتقريبا تصف رؤية هنري للحياة خلال الرواية"مابالنا , مع كل مافي السماوات من نجوم تغدق طاقاتها المشعة علينا , وبكل ماتمدنا به الشمس والقمر والكواكب كافة من عون, مازلنا غارقين في الظلام والإحباط؟ لماذا نبلى بسرعة كبيرة, مع أن العناصر التي تكوننا غير قابلة للفناء؟ مالذي يسبب اضمحلاننا؟ إن السبب لايكمن في المادة التي تكوننا, هذا مؤكد.إننا نذوي ونتلاشى,نفنى, لأن رغبتنا في الحياة تنطفئ.
أي معذب هذا الميللر!!
يبقى يجرك في صحراء سرده طوال الرواية ليكافؤك نهايةً بواحة عذبة لتسقي كل الظمأ الذي مررت به طوال الرحلة ويبقى طعم العذوبة التي ذقتها في الفصلين الأخيرين يحرضك للبحث الدائم عن واحات ميللر ..
التي قد تعبر عوالم عدة لتعيش فيها بضع لحظات فقطأنت عجائبي جدا ياميللرملحوظاتيلقد تقبلت الاشياء التي تعود الى الماضي فقط لكي احولها الى نهايات ابداعيةاني افكر بالمستقبل طوال الوقت حدسي ييقول لي لعله سيكون طويلا وشائكاأحس في نفسي نشوة نورانية إلى درجة أني أستطيع أن أنير العالم، ومع ذلك فأنا حبيس معدن مالويس لامبيرت بلزاك268+269- 273احداث سورياليةإذا كان الحل في الحياة هو أن يعيشها المرء اذن دعونا نعيش لنعش بمزيد من السعة والبحبوحة ان اساطين الحياة لا يوجدون في الكتب هم ليسوا شخصيات تاريخية انهم يقبعون في الخلود ولايكفون عن التضرع لأن نلحق بهم في الخلود
I have tried reading Henry Miller a number of times, and never got through his books, but Plexus was different. There are some passages in this book that are amazing, the way he talked about van gogh was incredible and page 404 I believe it was, incredible. Parts of the book rambled on too much for me, dream sequences that I had a hard time staying interested but most of this book was writing that is of a lost era. Its not going to happen anymore, like losing a generation....
Quando la precarietà ti spezza non si può che leggere Miller, che della vita precaria ne fa un miracolo.
Plexus (The Rosy Crucifixion, Book 2)I have always found Henry Miller addictive, having first read Tropic of Cancer in 1954, and smuggled it into England as if carrying dynamite.
When I open a volume of Miller such as Plexus a huge grin comes over me.
To start with, Mona never appears to discuss the business proposition with her lover, so the three men drink, Miller listening in the role of Dr Marx, a Jewish surgeon to Kronski telling gruesome stories about animal experiments, one of which was about a rabbit that indvertently died.
Metaphorically speaking the world is a real network of nerves, blood vessels and lymphatics: a plexus.And Henry Miller is a human ganglion placed inside this huge Plexus…“Often I have wondered, after reading about evenings with Mallarme, or with Joyce, or with Max Jacob, let us say, how these sessions of ours compared.
To be sure, none of my companions of those days ever dreamed of becoming a figure in the world of art.
Henry Miller is, to me, a minor God. When he gets on a roll, he is one of the best.I loved reading his sense impressions of hitchhiking down South; of traveling through Harper's Ferry, WV and John Brown; of working (without much success) at several jobs before becoming a writer.On my list is Nexus.
Plexus is the second and BEST novel in Henry Miller's "The Rosy Crucifixion" trilogy. Better than Tropic of Cancer (in my opinion). You'll have to go elsewhere to find a real review--I don't have the time to get into it. But I loved the book, dog-eared many pages, underlined constantly, had to tape the cover on twice, and look forward to reading it again.
هنري يظهر للناس نفسه .. بكل سفاله و طيبه، بكل بساطه وعفويه. تحدث ميلر في هذا العمل باجزائة عن نفسه وعن مجتمعه في اهم حقبه من حقب المجتمع الامريكي
قد يكون الإنسان راوي قصص، أو مخرفا، أو كذأبا علي طول الخط، ولكن في كل خيال وزيف يكمن جوهر من الحقيقة. هذا ما قاله ميللر، وكأنه يصف نفسه، أو يخبر عن حقيقته..
Yes, I longed to read Henry Miller for quite sometime. What I didn't know is the unfortunate dislike of some of his books like this one. A lot of rambling about books, people, and places. I did not like the plot at all. The main character is Henry Miller who is a poor and struggling writer. They move from place to place meeting different people some of whom are supportive but some are not. The author talks about life and various aspects of life. He talks of religion, philosophy, childhood, dreams, books et cetera.
If I would not have known that I picked up a book of a famous writer I would have thought that I was reading exercises of a person who is practicing a freewriting.


A window onto Miller's early years of struggle to become a writer as he surrenders his will to the chaotic personality of his second wife June (Mona). As with all Miller's "novels," the narrative moves through association, memory, and dream rather than a logically organized plot.
<"إن كنت أقرأ كتاباً وحدث أن مر بي مقطع رائع كنت أغلق الكتاب قي ذلك الزمان والمكان وأخرج لأتمشي. فقد كنت أكره فكرة أن أصل إلى نهاية كتاب جيد. أحاول أن أطيل قراءته، أؤجل الأمر الحتمي قدر ما أمكنني.">
henry miller basically owns your face.
Miller rambles and you feel much like some great uncle is telling you stories about his youth, interrupting himself with asides, philosophy, humor, and wide-ranging and mostly wholly nonsense theorizing (much of that seemingly purely for entertainment purposes but also probably popular at the time).
In this set of ramblings he ambles into North Carolina for a bit hoping to take advantage of some easier living.
Of course, it's not much easier and he's immediately forced to play some tricks and take full advantage of some hospitality.
Miller is always a pleasure and while you'll sometimes find yourself shaking your head or laughing at his antics he's always a treat.
It is madly full of events, places, interesting and grotesque characters, ideas, philosophies, descriptions, fantasies, deductions, and thing makes a small universe made exlcusively of ideas, thoughts and words.
I can not describe Millers writing style in the "Crucufiction" as anything but a machine gun fire.
He is so full of observations, memories and thoughts that he is ready to burst at any point.
In which other book can you find elements of autobiography, modernist prose, surrealism, philosophy, realism, pornography, ludism, picaresque shit, and so on and so on...
Not to mention how Miller's personal attitude of living just in today and letting problems sort themselves out is extremely fascinating.
Plexus is by far my favorite Henry Miller book thus far read.
Previously, I've read Tropic of Cancer, Tropic of Capricorn, and Black Spring.
(Did not care for Black Spring.) The Tropics were great, but I don't remember that they were this good.All of Miller (that I've read) seems like one book.
It's all sui generis Miller, the writer reeling off endless anecdotes, dreams, contemplations, rants.
It held my attention from beginning to end, and reached its denouement in a great crescendo of cascading language in its paean to, of all things, Spengler.
Wow. Great stuff, magnificent stuff.
Occasionally hilarious, often boring.
Legendary.
PLEXUS (The Rosy Crucifixion, #2)  By Henry MillerA Review By Nicole D'SettemiHenry Miller's novels were really memoirs before memoirs were memoirs. Literary fiction at it's best. Miller is probably the most thought-provoking of the clique of memoir writers of that time, other than Anais Nin. Much like his lit fiction--her diaries were also really, memoirs, more or less. The two were a dynamic duo, and wrote together fiery, passionate works, which are some of the best of their line of work(s)--
Plexus, while one of my favorites by Miller, is actually not during that period, but before rather, while Miller was still married to and in love with the eclectic Mrs. Miller.Plexus opens with Miller and his eccentric, enigmatic wife--also known throughout the works of Nin as June Miller--but only as Mona then Mara, by Miller himself, choosing a locale together in the city to shack up in though broke, and walking the thin line from bohemian artists to just completely poverty-stricken.
Last year, I picked up Henry Miller's  Sexus , which was the first book in the Rosy Crucifixion trilogy. Having read Tropic of Cancer and  Tropic of Capricorn  before, I wanted to pick up this book and continue reading the trilogy. Alas, it seems that Miller's style has started to fizzle, and unfortunately, I cannot say that I am enthusiastic about this book the way I was with the previous books I have read.See, the previous books (both the two Tropics as well as Sexus) was highly charged with s
Alas, it seems that Miller's style has started to fizzle, and unfortunately, I cannot say that I am enthusiastic about this book the way I was with the previous books I have read.See, the previous books (both the two Tropics as well as Sexus) was highly charged with sex.
Miller would write about his fictionalized life, in between very graphic descriptions of sex.
Instead, it feels just like a diary, and unfortunately, I don't agree with Miller's work ethic and find him an arrogant and lazy bastard, so to speak.
