https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40200.The_Crimson_Petal_and_the_White

You know in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind they've invented this brilliant device for erasing specific memories and the whole plot revolves around people who meet each other after they've had their memories of each other already erased, so they re-meet and re-love and it's all poignant and kind of whoah and oops I kind of gave the plot away - well, you should have seen it by now, come on, it's years old.
The Crimson Petal and the White by Michel Faber almost lives up to its promise.I was drawn into the novel by seductive narrative voice leading me down the streets of Victorian London.
Crimson Petal tells the story of Sugar, a 19-year-old prostitute who is renowned in London for doing everything.
Instead, the lives of the supporting characters peter out with no resolution, good or bad.
I did find the resolution for Sugar (which also involved Sophie) very interesting, but that, too, is glossed over.
Sugar is more spoken about than spoken through, and I found that very unfair to her.The Crimson Petal and the White has moments of brilliance, full characters, and an interesting narrative voice.
And many of them aren't pretty.The thing that fascinates and attracts me to this book is that it could only take place in Victorian London, and yet it could only have been written in the modern era.
But not only would Dickens not have written these things, he wouldn't know how to write them for us 21st century readers.
But Michael Faber understands these things, and he manages to describe them in a way that is usually elegant, sometimes repulsive, and always fascinating.There are some problems with this modern Victorian thing.
The truth is that you are an alien from another time and place altogether."This opening from an omniscient narrator brings the reader directly into the story and on a journey to Victorian London that allows one to experience all of the secret and sordid details of the lives of its characters - much like a voyeuristic peek at what goes on behind closed doors and in the hidden chambers of those complex minds.
Overall, I liked reading this book, I thought the writing was exceptional, but I’ve hopefully explained clearly enough the reasons for not rating this quite as highly as most of my GR friends.
I have to admire someone who can evoke science fiction worlds and Victorian London with equal aplomb.
The surety with which Faber resurrects the world of the 1870s is astounding.
This is basically the story of a young prostitute Sugar and how an encounter with the young heir of a perfume empire changes both their lives in unexpected ways.
The story is Dickensian in its scope and its deft juggling of many colorful characters, but its narrative sensibility is modern.
well, the ending is infuriatingly open-ended (Something I have been accused of myself) but after reflection, I've come to appreciate why the author chose to end the story as he did.
There are innumerable ways to die in London, but for those able to rise above begging, also opportunities, as Faber indicates as he passes us from Caroline to an old friend named Sugar she bumps into inside a stationary shop on Greek Street.Having lifted herself up from Church Lane to Silver Street--described as "a hop skip and jump from the widest, richest, grandest thoroughfare in London"--and into a tightly managed bawdy house known as Mrs. Castaway's, Sugar is a poised and well-dressed nineteen-year-old prostitute steadily in demand due to her ability to do two things Caroline cannot: carry on a conversation with any man and to never have to say "no" to one, both with a childlike innocence that customers seem to find desirable.
It is for this sort of novel that I wish the word "awe" could be reserved for.Faber gives us various guides on our journey, characters connected somehow in the teeming mass, tenously, momentarily, or perhaps intimately, showing the reader many different perspectives on the era, as characters have sometimes vastly different experiences based on one degree of birth, 10 shillings in their pocket, an address three streets better than someone else's, or the lack of a few pieces of vital, basic life information.
"’Ain’t nuffink Sugar won’t do, sir. Nuffink. It’s common knowledge, sir, that special tastes as can’t be satisfied by the ordinary girl, Sugar will satisfy.’" The seamy and the salubrious live cheek by jowl in Victorian London.  "The opulence of Bedford Square and the British Museum may be only a few hundred yards away, but New Oxford Street runs between there and here like a river too wide to swim, and you are on the wrong side.” Once on the “wrong side”, the alleys are narrow, filthy, povert
And so the young heir to the Rackham Perfumeries fortune finds himself in Church Lane with special requirements that only Sugar, a young prostitute from Mrs Castaway’s establishment will be able to provide.Sugar is special, very special.
Yes, there is a lot of explicit sex; Church Lane is home to women of negotiable virtue, and the main protagonist of this novel, Sugar, is a prostitute, so sex there is.
The irony is that it is not Henry who removes a “fallen woman” from the streets, but William who changes Sugar’s life.
Mrs Fox and Henry try, in very different ways, to help the destitute, but Sugar's intentions to do likewise come to naught.
She feels powerless to help.THE DESIRE TO WRITEAn ultimately futile passion for writing is a key experience for many of the characters (William, Agnes, Sugar, Bodley and Ashwell, even perhaps, Sophie).
(Is William really that monstrous?)* Why doesn't Sugar do more to help those less fortunate - and is she wrong not to do so?* Does the bond between Sophie and Sugar convince, and is it strong enough?Don't be tempted to read "The Apple" (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) for answers; there will be a few, but they're most unsatisfying.
I was totally captivated by this novel about class differences and sexual mores of late Victorian London--its rich and lively writing, its cast of engaging characters, and a plot that wavers among entertaining romp, serious social commentary, and tragedy.
A key device is an omniscient narrator who speaks directly to the modern reader, more in the beginning but also at turning points in the long story.
In the end, the modern narrator begins to indict you the reader with “dirt is in the mind of the beholder”.
She is a high-Victorian ideal; perfection itself at the time William married her ever-so-slightly-quaint now that the Seventies are half-way over.
Ugh. This book, and the length had nothing to do with it, took me about three weeks to read.
I have to say that the book was probably very well researched, but it was on some level, really an examination of a very small segment of society--and while I think that he captured Sugar's evolution in thought and place in the world in a very interesting fashion, I failed to be drawn into caring for anyone in this story--with the exception of Agnes (maybe).It is however, ironic that the only survivor in this entire story is the widow M.
In a way, the sudden deaths/disappearances are as realistic as the descriptions of the chamber pots and vaginal douches (after all, death does creep up on us very suddenly, and people do really vanish from our lives like that, don't they?), but it's an uncommon device in literature, and it's a bit jarring at times, especially since it's so thoroughly un-Victorian.
Much has been written about the ending of The Crimson Petal and the White, which is as jarring and un-Victorian as they come.
Agnes Rackham in particular was a fascinating character to read about, and I was always excited when one of her sections came about.The book is incredibly dense with the amount of information that Faber provides, and at times this did slow my reading down.
Some characters I wasn't as interested in as others (e.g. Henry Rackham), so those sections did lead my mind to wander a little bit, but overall Faber had me hooked, particularly during the last 25% of the book where I was wholly invested in Sugar and Sophie Rackham's characters and what would become of them.
Okay, I read this book.
I read every page because, you know, Michel Faber, right?
I mean, his prior work was not without merit.What the hell was he thinking, though, when he wrote this book?
Was he aiming for mediocre language and predictable plot with lots of crusty, nasty Victorian sex?
Still, I did read it all the way through.
I think what it says about me was that I hang in, even against my better judgment.
I read all the way through because I just kept waiting and waiting and waiting for the moment of genius.It so didn't come.
The further I progressed in the book, the more I came to be convinced that this was not a real woman I was reading about, not an angry, intelligent nineteen year old who had been forced into prostitution at an early age, but what a male author thinks such a woman would be.
I did not find the change in her character over the course of the book to be convincing, and I think that if you were to burrow into the underlying motivation of those changes, they would be more than a little misogynistic.
When this book started I thought that it was going to be quite a different kind of novel.
I thought it was going to be a bit like Calvino’s If on a Winter’s Night a Traveller – a series of beginnings tripping over one another, but never getting further on than that.
In fact, the end made me think back to the start – in many ways this book did end up being the book I thought it was going to be.This is an absurdly long novel – so I can hardly complain if it ends all too quickly, can I?
After having read so many pages and gone through such an immense journey, I do feel kind of cheated by that ending :) Nevertheless, I absolutely loved this book and its characters.
I loved how it portrays life in Victorian London so realistically and brutally, and I really liked how Michel Faber leaves nothing to the reader's imagination when it comes to the prostitutes and their work.Yes, this book is about prostitutes and in particular about Sugar and her rises and falls in life.
However, I was sorry to see that these funny remarks eventually stopped, and the reader was kind of left alone until the very last page.
Sugar, prostituta, è guidata da grande opportunismo, che sembra trasformarsi in sentimenti sinceri, verso William un ricco ereditiero , travolto da una forte infatuazione per Sugar , che col tempo ,purtroppo , si trasformerà in quello che apparentemente è totale indifferenza.
Non sapremo mai davvero se i sentimenti di Sugar o William sono cambiati effettivamente, o se sono solo cambiate le circostanze e il mondo attorno a loro.
Discorso che, ovviamente, vale per ogni personaggio.Lo stile di Faber, poi, è uno stile che mostra: il romanzo si apre con una chiacchierata dell'autore con il lettore, che incanta e spinge ad immaginare ,ad osservare, ciò che succede agli attori, quasi come fossimo a teatro.
Like Sarah Waters' Tipping the Velvet and John Fowles' The French Lieutenant's Woman, it gets a charge out of paying homage to Victorian tropes while undermining them: Victorian novels were famously prudish, so Faber gives us descriptions of the toxic prophylactic methods of Victorian prostitutes.
Faber gets his Wilkie Collins on, too, as we get a peek into Agnes Rackham's diaries.Unfortunately, it's not as good as The Woman in White: Agnes' diary is way more boring than Marian's, and we're short a Fosco.
Sugar, left in charge of William's neglected daughter Sophie, ends up exchanging (view spoiler)[prostitution for child-rearing, (hide spoiler)] which is way more boring.
In an interview, The Crimson Petal and White’s author, Michael Faber says: “I use the metaphor of a novel being like a prostitute, promising the reader a good time, promising intimacy and companionship”.
If this is the case, boy did I feel like I got a good “fuck” for my moneys worth.
At 850+ pages, I thought this tome of a novel was magnificent.
Faber led me by the hand, and brought me to Victorian London, where I fell in and out of love with the characters.
I loved them and despised them all at once.
This novel is most definitely character, not plot, driven.
William's wife, Agnes, a selfish and fragile woman who is rapidly succumbing to madness, is also part of the cast of our little drama, as is William's brother, Henry, a good and godly man who is constantly wrestling, to his mortification, with his own sexual urges, and Emmeline Fox, Henry's friend and doyen of the Rescue Society, which attempts to save "fallen women" from their lives of depravity and find them good, honest - if much less well paid - work.All of the main characters in this book spend an inordinate amount of time in the oh-so-human pursuit of comparing themselves unfavorably with others (usually each other).
While she claims to despise William, Sugar goes through a lot of trouble to make herself part of his life - her efforts culminating in her appointment as governess to his young, isolated daughter Sophie.There is a realistic grit to this book that most authors of that time would never have dared to put on the page: the dirt, the smells, the rot, the million little social hypocrisies… There is no white-washing, pretending or illusions possible in Faber's London.
I was invested, so each time Faber included statements like that I was pulled back into the real world which is, honestly, the last place I want to be when I'm reading a particularly good book.I understand there's a BBC miniseries of this book which I now look forward to checking out.
This wasn't a short book and there are more than a handful of characters - I'm eager to see if everyone is included.And now I am back in the real world - it's warmer and safer than London in 1870s in Silver Street or even in William Rackham's house - but I already miss this story.
La verdad es que eres un forastero de una época y un lugar completamente distintos.Bastó este pequeño empujón para caer rendida a esta novela, al Londres victoriano que nos presenta, una visión más moderna que la que ofrecen los libros de la época, y por eso en parte, seguramente mucho más real.
Somos forasteros espaciotemporales.Conocía el desarrollo por la magnífica serie de la BBC, quería profundizar en sus personajes, llegar a conocerlos, pero no esperaba que la novela me sorprendiese de esta manera, es una maravilla.Una narración introspectiva, con poca acción, cargada de ironía, plagada de maravillosos personajes, todos perfectamente dibujados y complejos: Henry, la maravillosa Sugar, William Rackham, la desdichada Agnes, Castaway que parece sacada de una novela de Dickens, la sorprendente e inolvidable Emmeline Fox...
The perfect book to end a great year of reads.
SUGAR’s aloneness and isolation … SUGAR’S SELF-MOTHERING.
William and Henry (the later allusion to Sugar creating a rhyme for Sophie to remember all the kings of England because there are so many “Williams and Henrys”).
Sugar, Agnes … but not Sophie herself.
I don’t think that’s exactly what Faber was doing here – he put Dickens right into the story and it felt to me more like he was saying, hey – you reader of Dickens, wipe the romanticism from your eyes when it comes to this time, this place: it’s far darker, far worse, far MORE REAL than you ever imagined.
Rather like an expose on life in 1870s England; it is a sumptuous, richly textured and deeply satisfying novel. A stonkingly good read. 4.75★
3.5 stars - It was really good.The way Faber wrote this novel reminded me of a Dickens’ tale – atmospheric with memorable, flawed characters and an underlying examination of the societal class divides.
Some parts were more interesting than others and at 900 pages it felt a bit long in the tooth (also reminiscent of Dickens).
I personally preferred his other novel, The Book of Strange New Things, to this one, though both were satisfying worthy reads.
-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: Isn't Heaven reward enough, without needing to see the damned punished?First Sentences: Watch your step.
Keep your wits about you; you will need them.
A wonderful trip back in time to Victorian London is what The Crimson Petal and the White is to me, a slice of life about a young prostitute named Sugar whose determination to pull herself out of the gutter and rise in society embodies in itself the very definition of rags-to-riches. I was hooked from the beginning, and while this book is positively huge, it also possesses that page-turning quality which will surely keep you awake many a sleepless night. I only found the ending somewhat wanting, hence my giving it four stars instead of five.
Protagonista indiscussa è Sugar, una giovanissima prostituta, il cui camaleontismo ed una volontà di ferro la riscattano dai quartieri più bassi sino a farla diventare l’amante, la collaboratrice di lavoro, l’amica di un ricco commerciante di profumi, William Rackam, e infine persino l’improbabile istitutrice della figlia nella sua stessa casa.Poiché, come ho detto altre volte, sono restia a raccontare le trame in genere, non sembrandomi giusto anticipare eventi e situazioni che ciascun lettore deve avere il piacere di scoprire da solo, non vi dirò nient’altro della storia, se non che la vita di Sugar si intreccia con quella di molti altri personaggi, creando uno spaccato dell’epoca vittoriana estremamente vivido, particolareggiato e godibilissimo, sia pur con un certo numero di incongruenze.
