https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/341879.Just_Kids
I always had a problem with the Beat and Punk appropriation of Rimbaud as more a figure of rebellion than a sophisticated poet.
I also never got into Punk Rock.
and I would say about it what I would say about other Punk I've gotten into since - such as Television and The Minutemen - that it is nothing other than simply great Rock & Roll.
So I grew curious about Patti Smith and then this book came out and I snatched it up.
This book is not only entertaining but lovely and wise too.
I had very divergent feelings about Just Kids, Patti Smith's National-Book-Award-winning memoir about her friendship with Robert Mapplethorpe.
But she did have the good fortune to encounter a knight in shining armor who had a prodigious artistic drive and the good looks to attract a series of male gateways to the New York arts scene.
The story of her arrival in New York, meeting Mapplethorpe and struggling to get by is worth the price of admission, a real look at what it means to be a starving artist.
♪Stayin’ up for days in the Chelsea Hotel...♫  Just Kids makes me feel so damn left out. If only I had been able to show up at the Chelsea in the early 1970s. I coulda been a contender, I could have lived for art. Oh yes, I would have been very naïve just like Patti had been at first. I totally get that. I don’t think I could have been as brave tho'. Art is a harsh mistress. Suddenly [Robert] looked up and said, “Patti, did art get us?”I looked away, not really wanting to think about it. “I do
♪Stayin’ up for days in the Chelsea Hotel...♫
If only I had been able to show up at the Chelsea in the early 1970s.
Suddenly [Robert] looked up and said, “Patti, did art get us?”I looked away, not really wanting to think about it.
“I don’t know, Robert.
I don’t know.”Perhaps it did, but no one could regret that.
Only a fool would regret being had by art; or a saint.
It’s so painful.”He looked at me, his look of love and reproach.
My love for him could not save him.
All images were displayed in the form submitted by the artist and the curator.The exhibition was highly popular and no complaints were made to the Police.No criminal prosecution occurred.The important lesson is that we could have self-censored and lost our own freedom.Instead, we asserted and preserved our freedom in the face of fear.For me, Robert and Patti represent, not just the existence of freedom in the abstract, but the assertion of freedom in reality.They more than earned the right to their love."Your ancestors salute you."
There are some moments of real poignancy here and some very deft turns of phrase, but I was also just bored stiff for most of it.
The great bulk of the book was a long series of "Then this happened.
Then I did that." And while there is a lot of reflection about art, there is very little on the subject of her relationship with Mapplethorpe, supposedly the purpose of writing the book.
Bottom line: had this not been Patti Smith writing about Robert Mapplethorpe, and had I not been in a book group where we were discussing the book, I wouldn't have kept reading past the 50th page.
Yet one still finds oneself grabbing futilely for the gunwales, whirling ever faster, ever downward and inward.The book reminds me of Jean Stein and George Plimpton's Edie: American Girl in it's New York setting.
We watch Smith's astonishing evolution from visual artist to poet to rock and roller.
Fascinating is the level at which which both Mapplethorpe and Smith learn their art.
Until then he was hesitant to do his own photography, though Smith had repeatedly encouraged him to; he worked in photo collages with images from male magazines.
Smith and Mapplethorpe have been incredibly blessed.
So when the end comes at least it is unmarked by the poverty and obscurity of Smith and Mapplethorpe's earlier years.
there’s so much here that feels like an itinerary - what they wore and where they walked and all the trinkets they collected, photographed, then lost along the way, and it’s a focus on props at the expense of any emotional appeal - what should be an intensely moving elegy for youth, for new york, for power-twin/bestie/lover mapplethorpe, is instead frustratingly detached and the reader is kept at arm’s length with details about ribbons, huaraches, hats, haircuts, portfolios, and grilled cheeses.
I knew nothing of Robert Mapplethorpe beyond his work and the controversy it had caused in the late 80s (I was too young to understand much of what he was trying to say, though I could understand the controversy just fine).
The portrait Smith paints of Mapplethorpe is one of a passionate, wildly creative artist, and also of a man driven by his ambition to become famous.
It's heartbreaking." Or "I wish I had her passion." I love when I read a book that inspires that kind of connection between people.
And in this shifting, inhospitable atmosphere, a chance encounter change the course of my life.”It was that summer when Patti Smith met Robert Mapplethorpe.
Now men had walked upon it, rubber treads on a pearl of the gods.”There are a very few years that they were not in touch, Smith’s focused on her music career, her marriage to Fred “Sonic” Smith, and Mapplethorpe focused on his art, his partner.
No one could speak for these two young people nor tell with any truth of their days and nights together.
Who else to 'read' the story of her life other than the one wrote it and lived it.Just Kids tells the story of Patti growing up and following her desires to go to NYC and grow and become an artist.
I had no idea how talented Patti Smith is - she's a poet, artist, writer, musician, singer, actress.
But out of all those mentioned, it was Mapplethorpe who pushed her and helped her find her artistic abilities and find out who she was/is.
It's a beautiful story.I saw Patti Smith speak recently and she said that Mapplethorpe, before he died, asked her to tell their story.
It started off ok, but after a bit her writing style began to get on my nerves (examples: using the word "for" instead of "because," as in "I went to the diner, for I was hungry" and "I hadn't any money" instead of "I didn't have any money" and "I lay upon the mattress" instead of the simpler, just fine, "I lay on," ugh.
I went to France and visited Rimbaud's grave and wore my raincoat for it was raining.
He bought me a sandwich for I was hungry and hadn't any money.
There's an oddly innocent tone to this all--for instance, the sexual relationship between the two of them is never really discussed, only accepted--when Patti gets the clap, we understand it's from him, but this is not a kiss and tell memoir.
It's an opportunity to walk a mile in Patti Smith's head, in a less coded and more factual way than in her music or poetry, but no less poetic for having been a lived life.
I love the layering of experience that way, as anyone who's read my work will know--the difference between the lived life and the way it looks from the outside.
More living, more art, more innocence, more faith, more poetry, more friendship, more acceptance.***********************************
Not only is it one of the best books I've read this year, it is one of the best books I have ever read.Knowing very little about Patti Smith or Robert Mapplethorpe going into reading this, I figured I would enjoy it but not quite appreciate it as much as someone who is a big fan of either.
And while that might be true, I still came out of this book with the utmost appreciation for both and for those people living, breathing, and being artists today.
Because, this book is about art.It's about art that you love so much that you make sacrifices like sleeping on doorsteps or eating anchovy sandwiches.
Smith writes about her time living in New York with Robert Mapplethorpe while they were both shaking off the dull scraps of adolescence and trying to break out as artists.
And obviously I am not the only one who found the disconnect between Patti Smith's presence and her internal life jarring - there are places in the text where she discusses how those around her took her for a lesbian and even a junkie.Her prose is wispy, light and airy, and her memories are wholesome, despite the fact that anyone who knows the history of that scene knows just how much death and self-immolation is happening just off screen.
The book is structured superbly well, it opens with the moment Smith hears of Mapplethorpe's death, then jumps back in time before they have met.
There was no running water in the corroded sink, only occasional rusted droplets plopping through the night.Despite his illness, he wanted to make love, and perhaps our union was some comfort, for it drew out his sweat…I have to admit, I felt a little churlish about her obsession with him at the beginning of the book, having chiefly wanted a memoir of Patti Smith and not of Robert Mapplethorpe.
Her account of how she and her lover/collaborator/friend Robert Mapplethorpe, met and ended up right at the center of New York's influential art and music scene during the 60's and 70's is nothing short of remarkable.Just Kids reads like an emotional elegy to Robert Mapplethorpe and a love letter to both him and the city of New York, which was at the time the indisputable mecca of the rock and punk movements.
Smith is sort of an oral curator as she recounts numerous encounters with an impressive group of artists, the city's rich cultural legacy and how she and Mapplethorpe became deeply ingrained in it.
I didn't know much about Steinem, but her book made me see her in a whole new light -- not an icon, but a lovely dedicated generous person.
In many ways, I didn't find it easy to connect with the way she lived -- pretty gritty at times -- or her relationship with Mapplethorpe -- but I loved seeing it all though Smith's eyes.
It all made me feel like slowing down -- appreciating what's there -- my family, friends and surroundings.A note on the audio: Smith narrates her own story.
When I was with him and I asked him this question: “what should I aspire to?” and he thought, and he said: “my dear, a gold American Express would be good.” but after that he said very thoughtfully, “build your name.” and I said, “William, my name is Smith.” and he said, “well, you’ll have to build a little harder.” but what William meant when he told me to build my name, build a good name, because a name is not to get famous.
Η Πάτι μας μιλάει για τον ερχομό της και την παραμονή της στην Νέα Υόρκη του 69’ παρομοιάζοντας την με την είσοδο της Αλίκης στην χώρα τον θαυμάτων, και όντως αυτό ήταν.Μιλάει για μια εποχή που ο πνευματικός και καλλιτεχνικός κόσμος νόμιζε ότι μπορεί να αλλάξει τον πλανήτη, να κάνει επανάσταση με μια νότα, μια λέξη, ένα ρεφρέν και μια φωτογραφία.Ανάμεσα σε αυτούς του γοητευτικούς δον κιχώτες διεισδύει και η Πάτι, με μόνο της εφόδιο, όχι την τέχνη της , διότι το παράξενο και όμορφο είναι ότι δεν έχει ιδέα ποιο είναι το ταλέντο της.
"Nothing is finished until you see it."  - Robert Mapplethorpe, quoted in 'Just Kids'"Who can know the heart of youth but youth itself?"  - Patti Smith, 'Just Kids'A memoir of images, people, and hopes 'Just Kids' explores the funky relationship of Patti Smith and Robert Mapplethorpe as they began their unique relationship and struggled to emerge as artists.
The power of this memoir is the way Patti Smith works the words to create a canvas broad enough to catch both Mapplethorpe and Patti Smith as they grow and flower.
The book is a great exploration of friendship, love and art.
Before Robert Mapplethorpe died, Patti Smith promised him that she would one day write the story of their years in New York City.
Now, twenty years after his death, she has made good on that promise.
They were struggling to find their special niches and become accepted as artists.
In this process they were often also struggling for simple survival.
Smith writes about him with such tenderness and honesty that I couldn't help weeping when she described his death as a result of AIDS.
We should all be so lucky as to have a friend like Patti Smith---a friend who could remember for us our youthful, most hopeful, most vulnerable selves and memorialize us so genuinely.
My first audiobook and I chose a good one to listen to, love Patti’s speaking voice. I never knew much about her, she’s over a decade older then me and I wasn’t ever into punk music at all. This was very interesting though, how she met Mapplethorpe and how they got by in New York, their bohemian lifestyle, and the people who they spent time with. What a special relationship these two “kids” had!I will make sure to listen to M Train in 2019!
But for whatever reason, I had a particular literary itch to scratch, and only Patti Smith's memoir would do.I had heard Gloria before reading this book, and I knew that Patti Smith was a musician.
People who go into this book expecting to learn about Smtih's songwriting/performance career will be disappointed; her retelling of how she became a famous musician is basically "someone suggested that I try putting my poems to music and people seemed to really like it, so that's cool I guess." There's not much about her actual writing process, even.
After reading this book I can understand why he said that.
I'm in awe of the talent and genius of this woman.
She is in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame for her music; she has received France's highest honor for her contribution to the arts for her drawings and photographs; but her greatest talent may be as a writer for the award winning books she has written, now a winner of the National Book Award for this memoir, Just Kids.2010 National Book Award winner for non-fiction.
I cherished my hatred for this book.
Drank deeply of my hatred.I didn't just find the writing clunky, I found it odd, troubled by an overfamiliar relationship with the passive voice (lots of things "could be seen"), verbs (no one ever god damn says anything; they discourse, spiel, spin, regale, blah blah blah), and prepositions (why say "on" when you can add a syllable to get "upon"?
why use the mundane "because" when you can replace it with "for" and sound like a Victorian lady novelist?).
I'm not sure if she intended, as a writer, for her and Mapplethorpe's pursuit of fame to sound so damn groupie-ish.
I didn't know Patti Smith.
I didn't know they had this relationship.
Patti Smith is a fantastic story teller.
What a moment of providence when Robert walked up to her counter at the book store and bought that necklace.
Two artist meeting in the night and forming a bond that both of them were supported by.I LOVE this book.
Patti's voice is so sure and guides the reader through sex, drugs, rock n roll and poetry and ARt. They lived a life of art, their lives were artful.
I'm so glad I gave this book a read.
Thank you Patti for sharing your life!
There's obviously a feeling of loss and grief; not just for Robert Mapplethorpe and Sam Wagstaff, but also for all the other artists, players, hustlers, and socialites in their circle who had tragic ends.
She spoke of living in NYC as an artist selling books and scraping by.
It almost felt like the spirits of the city back then were encouraging them to succeed and based on my very limited knowledge of NYC I don't know how well this journey could be replicated today.I loved this book, and I look forward to further digesting it in the coming days.
Although truth be told on reflection I didn't know zip about her private past, only shadowy images of her with Robert Mapplethorpe.
Her poems in my original 1972 copy of "Seventh Heaven" was something sacred to me, some holy grail of truth if I could only decode the essence of, I could be like she, or something...such is the stuff of puberty or perhaps I had blinkers on then most likely.Maybe I have a wrong take on this but I feel she's sugar coated her early life with Mapplethorpe.
I think in truth it's not about her it's about Robert.
Somewhere between the Chelsea Hotel and the insertion of a millionaire benefactor I closed her love letter to Robert Mapplethorpe, "Just Kids," bonked myself in the head and said "Knock it off." I needed to stop being dazzled and wooed and to start seeing through clear eyes or I'd wake up in a bus stop in Detroit clutching a one-way ticket to 1971.People do that.
The mere fact that we get to read this portrait of the 1970s art scene from this particular perspective is that they both, Patti Smith and Robert Mapplethorpe, busted through the wall of obscurity.
So what's the difference between Patti Smith and Robert Mapplethorpe and [insert unknown artist's name here].
Unlike many artists whose early lives were subject to torment and desperation, Patti came from a humble and loving home.
One of the things I adore most about Patti Smith is her ability to live simultaneously inside her own head, completely losing herself within a sanctimonious inner world of books, dead poets, and philosophers, while also living very much in the moment.
I particularly enjoyed the passage in the book where she visited both of these young men's graves in Paris.The only thing I haven't mentioned yet is Patti's friendship to Robert Mapplethorpe.
