https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7021365-the-man-who-knew
"I've met all sorts of people in this country and been introduced as John Minute, the millionaire, and do you know what they say as soon as my back is turned?"Jasper offered no suggestion."They say this," John Minute went on, "whether they're young or old, good, bad, or indifferent: 'I wish he'd die and leave me some of his money.'"Jasper laughed softly."You haven't a very good opinion of humanity.""I have no opinion of humanity," corrected his chief, "and I am going to bed."See what I mean?
'The Man Who Knows' is Saul Arthur Mann, a curious little chap with a big library of information on just about everything and everyone that is the envy of Scotland Yard, which he uses to pursue his own hobby for indulging in private investigations.'Ready-Money Minute' is a ruthless businessman with a shady past of financial speculations in South Africa and Rhodesia.
Latterly he has become the victim of fraud and become paranoid, while all those close to him are well aware of how vast his legacy would be if he were bumped off.The investigative method of Saul Arthur Mann promised to make for an interesting detective story, but this wasn't it.
I downloaded this book from Gutenberg.
The characters were not terribly well developed, so it was difficult to care about their fates.
Even so, I found the book entertaining enough to read all the way through.
For example, he writes of the main female character who is 21 years old "Twenty-one has not the experience by which the complexities of twenty-one may be straightened out and made visible.".
Were I to attempt to convey the same sentiment, my first thought would be something along the lines of "Twenty-one year old girls are clueless." It is clear the author did a much better job of it.
È il primo libro che leggo di Wallace e mi ha conquistata sin dalle prime pagine, sia per il modo di scrivere che per la storia. Leggerò sicuramente altro di questo autore!
My favorite mystery writer.
Towards the beginning of the book (it seems like something that would be in an introduction but for some reason I think it was at the beginning of the second chapter and I don't really feel like looking right now) the author made a note about how odd this story was and that it was based on legal documents, letters, May's diary and other such documents, ultimately saying that oftentimes truth is in fact stranger than fictional stories, thus implying that this story had actually happened, etc.
The Man Who Knew is a classic one by Edgar Wallace, so I was excited to read it.
Unfortunately I was a bit disappointed.I liked the idea of the Character of the "Man who knows" but he could have been a little more mysterious.
Plus it turned out, he actually didn't know that much.Also I was a bit confused at the beginning about the characters, but that's not unlikely for me when I read a Edgar Wallace story.
But in the end it was a nice read for a sunday on the couch
Starts strong and leaves one wondering what is happening page to page. Then it gets a little bogged down. He tries to keep the suspense up to the very end which unfortunately leads to an unsatisfactory ending. With so much buildup, the story and characters remain very superficial.I thought the title was ironic; that the man called the man who knew didn't while the semi-mysterious Cole, knowledgeable right-hand man, did know. Has an almost steampunkish quality.
This is another nice convoluted story from Wallace, with an ending that could have done with a bit of expansion. A memory expert, murder, an inheritance, bigamy, kidnapping, drugs, corruption and all the usual Wallace ingredients go to make up a story that is pure Edgar Wallace from start to finish.
Quite disappointing! Good guy was bad; the Man Who Knew didn't know.
Interesting, but ended weird. I wonder if he died or just got tired of the story. I'll have to research when I get a minute.
Another great story from Edgar Wallace.
The second half of the book was great - gripping and fast-paced.
I really enjoyed this book. I had my suspicions about who the culprit was but never really new the exact circumstances until they were revealed on the last fee pages
Right up to the second-to-last page this was a rattling good yarn
http://www.gutenberg.org/files/24933/...
Wow! What a stinker!
Very fun; it really kept me guessing. The man who knew is not who you think it is!
A.L. Burt, 1918
Enjoyable crime novel set mostly in London in the early twentieth century. Featuring the sleuth The Man Who Knew.
