https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82496.Travels_in_the_Congo
Although I have never felt any deep love for Gide's fiction, I felt that he had the makings of a great travel writer.I could only wish that the edition I read had a glossary which explained many of the italicized terms that were tossed around.
Finally, I was interested to hear that Gide was not only a big fan of Joseph Conrad's The Heart of Darkness, but he read his edition at least four times in the course of his trip.
يعتبر كتاب يوميات وأدب رحلات، الحقيقة أنه ثرثرة فارغة ومافيش حدث واحد ربط في ذهني حتى، معرفش اتكتب تحت تأثير مخدر معين أو في حالة سكر، كويس أن حجم الكتاب مش أكبر من كدة يعني.
This is not a mere travel book.
The last aspect has led, via Gide's report to the French government, to discussions in the French House of Representatives and an international conference in Geneva about Gide's accusations.One of the main difficulties in trying to get grip on the situation in the African colonies was, that, in fact, private trade companies like the 'Compagnie Forestière' dominated the colonies, and the officials in France had hardly any of the necessary knowledge nor the motivation to get things, far away, done properly.
“Travels in the Congo” is an artifact, a strange viewfinder showing hard to access parts of Central Africa circa 1925 from the perspective of a very oddly chosen “special envoy of the Colonial Ministry.” Andre Gide (a controversial, avant-garde French playwright) is shuttled around in a Tipoye (a porter-conveyed chair about which he is often wringing his hands with guilt, “As a general rule we use our tipoyes very little, as much because we like walking as to spare our wretched bearers.”), on horseback, in various boats and sometimes, to his credit, he walks on his own feet.
متعة السفر لا حدود لها، متعة لا يعرفها إلا القلائل، أندري جيد واحد من أولئك القلائل......
فعاش جزءاً من حياته في شمال إفريقيا متنقلا من تونس المدينة إلى بسكرة، ثم إلى توكورت، ومن بوسعادة إلى الجزائر (البليدة)، ومنها إلى بسكرة مرة أخرى...
يرتحل أياما ويقيم أخرى.أي سحر في الجزائر هذا الذي تملك كاتبنا الفرنسي، أي قوى خفية كان يراها ولسنا نراها، ربما هي البساطة التي لم تكن الأزقة الباريسية تعرف لها طعما،ثم لماذا شذت نظرته عن نظرة أقرانه الغارقين في النرجسية والاستعلاء؟ تلك النظرة التي لم تكن ترى في الجزائر أكثر من مقاطعة فرنسية...
Dedicated to the memory of Joseph Conrad, this travel memoir explores the observations of Gide, who traveled to the Congo from 1925 to 1926.
Gide's unique positioning in the Congo as a traveler "for pleasure" (his quotations) reveals the unstable relationship between the colonizer and the colonized.
As one whose nationhood allows him the privilege of the observer, Gide takes part in the colonialist enterprise; yet, as one who is not in the Congo (at least not officially) to take advantage of its resources, he in many ways distances himself from the accusation of colonizer.
روح الرحالة المُشبعة بكتابات الآخرين والمُفرّغة لبواطن نفسها ، لذاتها وشهواتها في محيطها. اسوء ما يصفُ شمال إفريقيا!
The back cover of my Ecco Press edition manages to muddy the waters further by describing the Belgian Congo as now having devolved into the nations of Zaire, Congo and the Central African Republic, which is patently false.
Only the Democratic Republic of Congo (the name recently changed from Zaire) can claim to be Belgian and there are relatively few pages of this book which are dedicated to it.
The majority of the book covers parts of French colonial Africa that are now the modern Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville, Chad, Gabon and Cameroon rounded out by some short visits to other West African ports while in transit.
Récit d'un long périple effectué par Gide au Congo (Brazzaville et belge) et au-delà vers l'Oubangui-Chari et jusqu'au Lac Tchad.
Un vrai récit de voyage mais aussi une dénonciation cinglante de l'exploitation de l'Afrique et des africains par les concessionnaires privés.
Si Gide peut avoir une relative compréhension pour l'exploitation imposée par l'état - garant du bien-fondé des développements réalisés, par le biais de cette exploitation, pour la mise en valeur du pays - il expose que le seul but des entreprises privées est d'épuiser les ressources du pays pour le profit d'une minorité de riches administrateurs en métropole.
Un récit passionant par son côté très humain.
This was enjoyable both as travel writing and as a historical document.
Gide writes poetically about the scenery, the people and animals that he encounters.
He documents the abuses of the colonists with no little despair and he is never less than fair in his dealings with the Africans.
It is interesting to look at the map at the front of the book and consider how different its countries are from a modern map and also how different our politics are.
Given the attitudes at the time, it is even more remarkable that Gide is able to be so fair and kind, teaching Adoum, one of their servants to read, for example.
This is an interesting document. It's a journal so you get a day to day account of traveling through the heart of French Congo in the Twenties, with the backing of the French Government. Problems with porters, local chiefs and sheiks, fevers, cooks and the French companies extracting rubber from the dirt poor peoples of the region. It also sheds a light onto the nuances of racism in the colonial world.
Andre Gide has a passion for humanity, nature, language and literature, as reflected in the diary of his nine month trip in 1925-26 across the Congo. He is quite forward thinking (for the time period) in his views on Africans, in his relentless pursuit of local justice and in his premonition of the future for the continent. How marvelous it would be to retrace his steps today, or at the least to speak with him.
نصوص مختارة من كتابات الفرنسي الحائز على نوبل للأدب أندري جيد من ترجمة :محمود عبد الغني يتغنى فيها الكاتب بجمال وسحر الشمال الإفريقي واصفا مختلف الأماكن التي زارها من تونس مرورا بالجزائر و وصولا إلى المغرب بلغة أدبية راقية وأحاسيس فياضة قويةhttp://www.goodreads.com/review/list/...#
Gidés Buch schwankt zwischen Reisebericht und kritischem Essay.Interessantes Stimmungsbild von Zentralafrika, Kongo und Tschad in den 20er Jahren des letzten Jahrhunderts.Manchmal etwas eintönig, hinterlässt aber beim Leser die Lust eine Abenteuerreise a la Gidé ebenfalls antreten zu müssen.
Fascinating information about the old Africa, unfortunately mixed in with a lot of boring stuff that should have remained in a private diary.
I read it in Slovene...good itinerary.I also own a copy of this book in Slovene.
terrible translation but well worth the read. The edition I read was published by University of California/Berkeley press 1964.
مني مصدقة اني حقول كدا لكن رحلات انيس منصور كان وصفو فيها امتع واحلى دا خلاني ما ابغا اروح للجزائر
