https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170311.Voodoo_in_New_Orleans
Or you could read Voodoo in New Orleans.
Offerings were made before an altar, with the celebrants wildly chanting the “Calinda” (30).“Danse Calinda, boudoum, boudoum!Danse Calinda, boudoum, boudoum!”But you can hear this for yourself in Dr. John’s “Danse Kalinda Ba Doom.”The longest of the three parts of Voodoo in New Orleans is devoted to Marie Laveau.
But you can hear Dr. John tell of the Voodoo Queens in “Mama Roux” and “Jump Sturdy.” Tallant’s book is valuable because it compiles so many oral and ephemeral sources.
But to truly experience Voodoo in New Orleans, you’ll want to get your gris-gris from the Doctor.
I stopped halfway through because the Voodoo rituals described in this book by the witnesses and participants Tallant interviewed were distressing to me.
He interviewed a wide variety of local folks (both black and white) who knew about and participated in these rituals.
They sound sincere enough.What I do know is that animal sacrifice was then, and is now, still a part of religious ritual in many cultures and certainly is a valid aspect of Voodoo, whether or not modern practitioners choose to make use of it.
This was not unusual, since the strange gumbo that is New Orleans Voodoo combines elements of Roman Catholic iconography and ritual, with traditional African magical and religious rites involving sorcery and spirit possession.
But it was a really interesting read.
I got this at hex Shop while in New Orleans This was the other book I picked up along with Queen of voodoo.
I found this book to be really interesting..
loads of little spells You can pick up in this book.if that's your thing.
Whether Some of this history is true or not, It was a interesting read.
So this is about new Orleans voodoo from inside new Orleans it's self.
all in all a really interesting read and i book i shall treasure with memories of the good old Nola <3
Written in the style of the day so don't get shocked at how everyone is listed by their ethnic makeup.
Touted as truth but really a narrow viewpoint from an outsider.
Quick interesting pimer read full of hearsay and scraps of evidence.
For trying to create a written history in a space were traditon mandates all information secret and imparted in only an oral fashion.In the end he was given the same smoke screens as those who came before him.As always it is grating to read about the massive thoughtless cutural appropriation of marginalized peoples.
A strange, charmingly racist little book (she says with sarcasm). It's very much a product of the time - all the (poor, black) characters sound the same, and the author handles the subject not from journalistic remove but from a 'look what these silly savage folks get up to!' mindset.That being said, it's fascinating, even just as a primer into What White People Thought Voodoo Was Like. Lists of curses, depictions of ceremonies, details on voodoo queens and their various rivalries and scandals. A deep expose into voodoo's history it ain't - but it's colorful and full of character.
I purchased this book looking for a quick read that explains the various beliefs and customs of New Orleans Voodoo.
However, this book is more a picture of what white men in the 1940s believed voodoo to be.
In the end, I gave it two stars because the book was somewhat interesting in the way of understanding how voodoo was (and likely still is) perceived amongst outsiders.
I think it sits today as a case example for why voodoo tends to be a very secretive belief structure.
However, don't expect to gain any understanding of their actual beliefs, customs, or history through this book.
An interesting read, but he's no Zora.
Fair warning: 1946 is when this book was first published, so the words "Negro" and "Negress" can be found and heavily used throughout this book. (There are no negative connotations; it's just the language of the time period.) Nevertheless, it was such an interesting read, delving into the stories and tales that surround superstition of an age old religion and how it came to New Orleans/America. Colorful retelling of Voodoo/Hoodoo practices and experiences make each anecdote come alive despite the lack of citations or backgrounds of any of the people mentioned.
This was the first book I read about Voodoo, and it was a wonderful introduction. Most of it is fiction, and many serious writers love to point out the myths in this book, and they well should. But this is still fun.
It was a fun and campy read. Previous books on the topics indicate that you should take it with a rather large grain of salt, but I enjoyed it none the less. Interesting to find out it was a works-progress book, same as some stuff that Zora Neale Hurston did.
Full of nonsense, largely made up - but quite entertaining
A product of its time, but the hearsay accounts are interesting, just to get an idea of how the practices pervaded everyday life

2.5/5 stars This is definitely a book of its time, written in the 1940's with the language and terminology that goes along with it.
Part historical, part research, mostly superstition - and a lot of hearsay.
Mostly conducted by interviews that may or may not have just been taken off the street.
Interesting read, but not reliable except for some of the historical research the author did on Marie Laevau I & II.
That and getting a glimpse at how people viewed Voodoo, both black and white, during that time period.
This is probably more like a 2.5 star book, but three it is.
Written in the 1940s, it is certainly of its time, though pretty enlightened all things considered.
There's a lot of judgment based on both race and educational level, but being 70 years old it's not surprising.
Despite that, there's some interesting history here, and a pretty level-headed analysis of stories and tales told.
It's supposedly one of the better overviews, though it seems like too much of an outsider's view to be more than an entertaining collection of stories.
Interesting and seemingly authentic, based on numerous interviews with practitioners and those who know or knew them. Perhaps somewhat dated now given its publication date (1949), but still an informative primer on an aspect of folk life in one of America's weirdest (and therefore one of my favorite) cities. Some sections are disturbing, especially to those squeamish about violence done to animals or to some of the grotesque items used in "fixin" people, and other sections are humorous, still others just bizarre. All in all though, an enjoyable though (for me ) eccentric read.
OK, yes, it's written by an "outsider" to the world of voodoo and terribly outdated, but it's a very interesting introduction to the New Orleans scene, with an especially interesting section on Marie Laveau and her daughter Marie Laveau II. The best parts are the interviews with the "current day" (the book was written in the 1940s) practitioners. Oh, and I got my copy from a prominent display at the New Orleans Voodoo Museum - which, trust me, is staffed by true believers. Worth a read.
The highlight of the book was the final two paragraphs where America is compared to a turkey - because we have white meat and dark meat. Yes, of the racial variety. This analogy was loosely tied to a comparison of race in Voodoo. Seriously, though, this book is curious and is ethnographic in nature. I'm not sure Robert Tallant "speaks with authority" as is suggested in the reviews, but he certainly lived an interesting life...or at least has a fantastic imagination.
Entertaining trash. Pretends at points to be a serious historical account but is almost entirely made up of anecdotal evidence, and its fun to separate the serious from those trying to pull Tallant's leg. You don't read this book for Tallant though, entertaining as his hypocrisy can be at points. You read it for the world he's attempting to explore and the characters within, as fabricated as their accounts often are.
Great historical text about the golden age of voodoo. It puts together various folk tales and aves them together under classifications. It was first written the the 1940s and I was pleasantly surprised at its non-dry tone. Most books I have read from this far back are very dull and read like outdated textbooks. This one doesn't!
This book is an interesting introduction to New Orleans voodoo, or hoodoo, but was too senstationalistic to be taken seriously. I'm interested in voodoo in America and will be reading Zora Neal Hurston for more background.
I was expecting something a little more scholarly and full of primary sources than how this book turned out to be. Perhaps it's because of the year of its original publishing. It was an interesting read, but seems like more of a starter on New Orleans voodoo history.
It's not a history book. If you're looking for a history book, you ain't gonna dig it.But it is a book full of rumors of the time period. Salacious, engaging, and fun. If you're looking for that, you will like this.
A product of the era. Once you get past the archaic race fixations, it isn't a bad book. The stories behind the various voodoo queens and witch-doctors are compelling and descriptive. A must for fans of Marie Laveau I and II.
My mom gave me this book a few years ago, before my first NOLA trip. I have had it that long and never read it. It's in my bag to take when I get stuck in Dr's offices, so it's gonna be a slow read.
This is the book most tour guides in New Orleans get their knowledge from. A hidden part of true American history!
This was an awesome read. A history of voodoo in new Orleans. I will checking out more of Robert tallant books
A travel non-fiction book. Interesting to read what NOLA might have seemed like to a tourist in the 40s, but the accounts of Voodoo are sensational & superficial.
Lots of fun information about the history of voodoo in NOLA, somewhat dated. A good place to start, it gave me some plot ideas.
Informativ men en aning tillkrånglad fackbok om voodoo i Louisiana före 1950.
