https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121622.Mrs_McGinty_s_Dead
When Inspector Spence visits the retired Poirot, he shares his troubling concern that the man he arrested for murdering Mrs. McGinty, and who is now facing the death penalty, is not truly guilty.
But the clues won’t be found in McGinty’s past; as Hercule Poirot points out “For, you see, Mon cher Spence, if Mrs. McGinty is just an ordinary charwoman–it is the murderer who must be extraordinary.” It is true; the murderer is a bit extraordinary.
--practically penicillin." If it is any post-humous consolation, in my old age, I prefer Miss Marple to the conceited Poirot, but I enjoy them both.

‘D’you think that’s advisable?’From there on, the typical sleuthing adventure ensues, except that there are a lot - and I do mean way too many - characters that are part of the investigation, a few red herrings, Ariadne Oliver - whose involvement in the book has less to do with the plot (I'll get to that later) -, and an ending that seems to have been rather far-fetched.
Hold everything.’ She dropped the basin and the knife and went out again.Poirot got up again and shut the door.
I read this book in my mother language (Portuguese). I was loving the story but for me the ending was unconvincing and implausible.
And then Superintendent Spence discusses a case with Poirot of a man who was convicted for bashing his landlady on the head.
Spence isn't comfortable with the verdict, and gets Poirot to revisit the case for him.
Poirot goes to the town of the murder and must stay in a dreadful bed & breakfast, while interviewing the neighbours and generally getting people agitated about the situation.
I found this story enjoyable and with Ariadne's presence funnier than some of the other Poirot stories.
مثل بقیه آثار نویسنده جذاب و خوشخوان بود.گره های داستانی خوبی داشت، اما نه لزوما تمام آنها.نکات روانشناسی، جرم شناسی جالب و قابل تأملی داشت.خوب بود.
There are writers of mysteries, and playwrights, that are also targets of satire, but none greater targets than Hercules Poirot, who Christie has a famous love-hate relationship with in full swing at this point in her career (in 1952, this book was published).
G. Wodehouse feel to it at times.In this one James Bentley awaits capital punishment, convicted of killing his landlord, Mrs. McGinty, but Poirot is engaged to find out who really dunnit.
Maybe my favorite aspect of it is the character Ariadne Oliver, a mystery writer, a kind of caricature of Christie herself.
“ The truth is I’m not very good with people.”“I adore people, don’t you?” said Robin happily.“No,” said Mrs. Oliver firmly.”Mrs. McGinty's Dead is, as far as I can tell, a unique product of Christie's prolific mind.
To begin with, it's unusually funny and ironic, far more (good-naturedly) mocking toward the Adorable Egg-Head than I would have expected from the book that initiates the final phase of his career.
Secondly, in a few occasions it offers delicious examples of meta-talk between Christie and the readers through the character of our dear old Ariadne Oliver, to whom is not granted enough screen-time to be called a proper sidekick, but who nonetheless is charismatic enough to pull her weight beautifully, again with no little humour.
It seems that Mrs. McGinty "stuck her neck out" and got it cut off...---------------------------------This was one of the most humorous books from Christie: the tone resembled that of Wodehouse at times.
At the darkest hour in the investigation, when Spence remarks that the case is puzzling him to death, the Belgian sleuth says: "Ah, mon ami, it is simple, is it not?" Dame Agatha writes:After that remark there was nearly a third murder - the murder of Hercule Poirot by Superintendent Spence in Kilchester Police Headquarters.Not one of Agatha Christie's best, but worth a read.
How he suffers, to our delight :0) If this wasn’t enough, Ariadne makes an entrance with her apples of course, and views.
In this instance, Christie has a field day, using Ariadne as her spokesperson, voicing her feelings about being an author, about adaptations, and most telling, about her creation:“How do I know why I ever thought of the revolting man?
You try something – and people seem to like it – and then you go on – and before you know where you are, you’ve got someone like that maddening Sven Hjerson.”Priceless!
:0)P.S. I shall be reading Christie’s autobiography next month and look forward to finding more about her views on Poirot.
Can Poirot get to the bottom of this seemingly mundane murder?Yes. I mean, this is Hercule Poirot and his famous grey cells we are talking about here, of course he figures everything out, it is what he does.But the charm of this story isn't in Poirot's inevitable success, but all the characters Christie populates the story with, from Robin Upward, a deliciously annoying playwright to Christie stand in Mrs. Oliver (who has to put up with Upward's constant changing of her famous Finnish detective for the purposes of a play he is writing) to Summerhayes's who seem incapable of running anything resembling an organized house and many more.
Spence is worried that he is sending an innocent man to his death and induces Poirot to investigate for him.Poirot goes to the local village and begins stirring things up after he starts visiting the late woman's employers.
I finally decided to stop trying to figure out who did what and just get to the end.The setting of the village for this one from beginning to end was marked by many as being typical for Miss Marple (which it is ) and not really something that Poirot ever did.
This is really a *fun* mystery--I don't normally think of Dame Agatha as funny, but she is quite capable of delightfully dry British humor, and by the time she wrote this novel (in the 1950s) she was well into her long career and comfortable/confident enough to play with a lighter tone when she felt like it.
In fact, few of Dame Agatha's novels feature working-class protagonists, and so I was struck by her sympathetic portrayal of a charwoman and the sense that justice needs to be done here as surely as for an earl.
An interesting plot, enough suspects to keep you guessing till the end & a satisfying end (with a usual twist) to tie all ends up. Overall a enjoyable murder mystery that keeps you engaged till the end.
Come un libro ti possa tenere incollato fino all'ultimissima pagina.Agatha Christie era un genio.
Ma spesso gli indizi sono comprensibili solo all'autore stesso, il lettore non può far altro che seguire, sconcertato, il succedersi degli eventi, chiedendosi, ogni due pagine, se è veramente lui o lei l'assassino, e venendo poi contraddetto nella riga successiva.Non succede come in tanti gialli che dove arriva l'investigatore muore qualcuno.
E allora ecco che Hercule Poirot, personaggio molto autocompiacente, mette in moto il suo meccanismo, fino ad arrivare al colpevole, che è forse il meno sospetto di tutti.È stato un libro molto piacevole da affrontare per staccare un po' dal romanzone di Llosa.
Mind-blowing.
Hercule Poiroit at his best. A gripping story that leaves you in amazed at how skillfully the ace detective with little luck to support manages to solve the crime. Agatha Christie paints a rich tapestry of a small English village with its distinct population. Slowly and slowly she builds each character and as a reader you feel satiated that the author could fulfill your desire to know the real characters. That a crime could be solved after so many years tells a lot about the author's ability to weave the plot so well
This book was okish not one of Christie’s best. I didn’t like the plot and there wasn’t much mystery in it except that some women in the past had been associated with crime and now trying to cover it up. I struggled to complete theaudio book and found it boring at places.
Choose Your Own Adventure!You are Mrs. McGinty. If you are not Mrs. McGinty, choose https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...If you are not Mrs. McGinty, and you killed Mrs. McGinty, choosehttp://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Well,i did not enjoy this very much.Sometimes it felt comfusing and kind of rushed,though i was not able to guess the muderer.Once again Agatha Christie caught me by surprise with the explanation which was unexpected!Three stars from me!!!
él primer libro que leo de Agatha Christie. y la verdad me esta gustando como escribe.Un libro magnifico, no he descubierto quien era el asesino hasta que lo ha dicho Poirot.
Such an engaging story with soo many suspicious characters and soo many options for the motive of the murder.
The book really whizzed through each and every one of the suspects: it is literally one chapter after another of a whole host of new characters who we only meet for a chapter and then we're expected to remember all of them.
I'll say it again: it is literally just one chapter in which Poirot looks at a newspaper and reads out an explanation of each murder case just once and then expects us to remember all of that.
Един от най-заплетените случаи на Еркюл Поаро, в който всички герои изглеждаха подозрителни. И въпреки, че съм изчела толкова много книги за този прословут белгиец отново не познах убиеца. Продължавам със следващото убийство....
Not as intriguing as many of Christie's books: I'd never heard of the title before I stumbled upon it going cheap in a second hand bookshop and it's not nearly as good as some of her other work.
The reader is led astray as usual and suspects nearly everyone but the eventual unmasked murderer of killing the Scottish charlady of the title.
I think there were a few too many red herrings for comfort.One of the best parts of this book is the inclusion of a character called Ariadne Oliver who is a best selling mystery author.
A solid mystery.
I thought I had it figured out at one point; I actually had a very Agatha/Poirot idea for who did it and why and how Poirot would handle it.
I was actually surprised by the resolution, which I enjoyed.
The book moves a little too slowly for me.
The first murder has already happened when the book opens, and the second one happens too late in the story for my liking, but overall, the progress is paced well, and the resolution is semi-climactic.
It's a good, three-star mystery novel that I'd recommend for a quick read.
אין על אגת'ה כריסטי! ספר בלשי מעולה, עם עלילה מתעתעת ובלתי צפויה. היה תענוג לקרוא. ממש חיכיתי בכיליון עיניים שיום העבודה יסתיים ואוכל לחזור הביתה ולסיים את הספר. אהבתי גם את הקריצה האירונית והמבודחת בדמותה של אריאדנה אוליבר, סופרת ספרי המתח.
Awalnya tidak berekspektasi banyak ketika memulai membaca buku ini.
Yang saya suka dari buku ini: Kerja sama antara Poirot dengan Inspektur Spence.
Di banyak buku detektif yang saya baca, kebanyakan polisi akan berpuas dengan kesimpulan mereka dan tidak mau tahu hal-hal kecil yang terlihat tidak signifikan.
Inspektur Spence berbeda.Hal kedua yang saya suka: latar cerita yang begitu solid dan menarik, tentang artikel yang dimuat di Sunday Companion, serial "Wanita-Wanita Tragis.
Pembaca dapat mengikuti pola berpikir Poirot dengan baik (meskipun tidak seluruhnya.
terkadang pembaca baru bisa bilang "oohh" setelah membaca penjelasan Poirot kemudian).Di buku yang saya baca ini (cetakan ke-5, Januari 2014) terdapat cukup banyak typo.
This is one of those cases where Poirot is convinced because of the psychology which is always a fascinating angle to take.
It's a sort of sarcastic and character humor that I love.
There's a lot more character development for Poirot in this novel and the mystery does a fine job of supplementing our understanding of him.The Final Verdict:While it's one of my personal favorites, I wouldn't recommend an Agatha Christie newbie start off with a novel like this.
The development of Poirot is spot-on and humorous but it isn't as crime intensive although your grey cells certainly do have their work out.4.5 stars
"Penjahat yg bijak tidak akan pernah buka mulut, tp penjahat jarang ada yg bijak dan biasanya sombong dan banyak bicara-makanya kebanyakan penjahat akhirnya tertangkap."RereadInspektur spence yg akan pensiun tidak yakin akan vonis yg dijatuhkan kepada mr. Bentley minta tolong ke poirot karena menurutnya dia bukanlh pembunuh sebenarnya..N poirot yg terpanggil untuk membantu teman lama pun terpanggil..Dengan tanya sana sini dan bantuan Ariadne oliver (altar egonya agatha) seperti biasa poirot berhasil..Btw, mrs. Summerhayes jadi bener2 jago masak telur dadar. Disebutin di cat among pigeon, poirot bangga banget..
