https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6530.Trace
Book Review  3.5 of 5 stars to Trace, the 13th book in the Kay Scarpetta thriller series, written in 2004 by Patricia Cornwell. Trace is midway in the series which has about 25 books as of 2017 when I'm finally writing this review! I'm trying to catch up on all my favorite series, finish writing reviews and then read the latest books which are still in my TBR pile.Trace is a solid story, as we come to expect from Cornwell, but it has a few issues, too. It's a very emotional book, not only beca
3.5 of 5 stars to Trace, the 13th book in the Kay Scarpetta thriller series, written in 2004 by Patricia Cornwell.
Trace is midway in the series which has about 25 books as of 2017 when I'm finally writing this review!
I'm trying to catch up on all my favorite series, finish writing reviews and then read the latest books which are still in my TBR pile.Trace is a solid story, as we come to expect from Cornwell, but it has a few issues, too.
This is the book, I would say, where the characters complete their transformation from interesting people with issues you can relate to, to characters who are doing things that are so screwed up you don't even want to watch anymore. And now I remember why I stopped reading this series.
I'm a bit annoyed with the Benton character, he is supposedly in love with Kay but he has pretended to be dead for a number of years leaving her to mourn and now he cancels a vacation to spend his time trying to help someone less than worthy, it seems everyone is important except for Scarpetta.And the mystery about who was behind those deaths was a bit lost in the middle of all this.
Her last book, "Blow Fly", sucked and this was not much better.
Her books used to be really tight with no holes, everything wrapped up nice and neat, and she always continued the story line until the bad guy was dead.
After the last one I said I was done with this author, but then I got sick and needed something easy and diverting to read in bed, but it still pissed me off.
I hope she gets back on her game because she's not even good enough for a sick day anymore.
Throw some sexual deviation and a few murders in there and I guess you'll have something that can sell, even if it's not worth writing. The killer this time is Edgar Allan Pogue, tragically child-like, suffering from familial trauma, like a thousand other postmodern murderers. Cornwell's insistence on present tense narrative is grating, and the ridiculous self-gratification of her main protagonist always being right and slighted anyway is done without humility or charm. The book is as bleak as a chalk outline on a sidewalk, but more self-indulgent.
A fourteen year old girl named Gilly Paulsson is found dead in her bed with no obvious signs for the cause of death.The second plot is from the perspective of Kay's niece Lucy, who has called Benton to help with an attack that occurred at her home, where her work colleague/lover Henri was assaulted by an intruder.I really enjoyed re-reading Trace.
I liked the way the plotlines tied together and I still really enjoy reading about the lives of Kay Scarpetta, Benton, Lucy and Marino and everything they go through.Rating: 4/5 stars
This is the second Scarpetta book I have read (admittedly out of order), and there's something I'm just not getting.This one begins promisingly enough, with Kay and detective Pete Marino heading back to Virginia to help solve the mysterious death of a 14 year old girl.
One of these, of course, involves Kay's niece Lucy.
The story surrounding the crimes is actually pretty good- but there is too much distraction for this to be a really good book.
Some opportunities for real drama are just skated over.I've heard the earlier Scarpetta novels are better, but I think I'm done.
I love the Scarpetta character, which is based on a real medical examiner.
Generally, Cornwell produces the Scarpetta books with taut and compelling writing.
As a former detective, he is a useful foil and clearly in love with the lovely Kay Scarpetta, but became unacceptably irascible and unlikable in this book.I know authors can't hit a home run with every book, especially in a long-running series with a character most readers probably think they actually know.
But this book wasn't even a dribbling in-field single.If this had been the first book I read by Cornwell, it would also be the last.
OH MY GOD PLEASE STOP BOOHOOING ABOUT YOURSELF. The entire tone of this book was just so pity party that I couldn't even finish it. I had to put it down about a third of the way through. Where did the strong woman, who valued her mind and knew her capabilities go? I understand character developement, but why must the protagonist be such a WIMP?
ما حداني لشراء وقراءة هذه الرواية هي حبي لكل من يكتب في الطب الشرعي..وخاصة روايات المبدعة ..كاثي رايكس .. وبطلتها د. تمب برينان ..ولكن باتريشيا كورونويل لن تصل لمستوى كاثي رايكس..لا أعني أن الرواية لم تكن جيدة ..ولكنها لم تكن جيدة بشكل كافي بنظري...فلا شيء يضاهي د. تمب..ولا مغامراتها ...
So many things bother me about the series now that didn't used to bug me, and I'm not sure whether they were always there and I just let them slide before because the books were generally well-written and fast-paced, or if the fact that the writing has gotten markedly worse includes these items.
For one thing, in both Predator and this book, Cornwell is obsessed with "perfect" looking people, and the characters (and the narration) deride anyone that doesn't look like Cornwell's (and/or the characters') definition of "perfect." Personally I don't know a single actual real person that looks like what the books define as "perfect," and I find this obsession obnoxious.
Meanwhile, Lucy's lover Henri (an actress turned cop), has been sent to Aspen, where Benton psychoanalyzes her to help determine whodunit, while Lucy and her aide Rudy work the case where it occurred in Florida.
To us, introducing spotty relationships between Lucy and Henri, Henri and Benton, Lucy and Rudy, even Kay and Marino (his role never was clear) and Kay and new ME Marcus, just added terrible clutter without ever going anywhere.
Especially the shoddy work now happening under the new Virginia ME should have resulted in a firing or something, but the story just drifted to an end.
She's there to assist in finding out what happened to Jilly Paulson and nothing is what it appears to be.
1. The child's mother appears or acts like she's mentally out of her wits; all along she's playing S & M games and uses Pete Marino as one of her subjects.2.
Jilly Paulson's father is a Dr. In Charleston, SC and he wants answers to his daughter's death.
At the same time he's violating his female patients and was the one who played the S & M games while their daughter, Jilly was at home.The story finally tells you in the latter chapters of the book why this stalker is harassing a certain individual.
While receiving the persona non grata treatment, both Scarpetta and Marino determine that something is very much off with the overly emotional mother, only to discover a secret that chills them to the bone.
How do the cases relate and who is this murderer/stalker that is causing so many issues?
When everything comes together, Scarpetta cannot help but be flabbergasted.Cornwell continues her third person narrative, which works as two stories flow simultaneously.
It is interesting to see the more than Scarpetta view of the overall story and this narrative diversion has not cause me any concern.
I just couldn't wait to see if she will redeem herself in this book.
After completely changing the style that she writes the Scarpetta series and being severely disappointed in her latest (Blow Fly) this is her chance to win me back.
I'll give an update when I'm finished.Update: Only halfway through the book now.
So disappointed..Update 2: Nov 10, 2004 - Finished the book last week and feel like it was a complete waste of time.
I will continue to read her books in hopes that she will realize where she's gone wrong and go back to her old style of writing.
To keep track of my ridiculous Patricia Cornwell addiction.
I can never remember where I left off in the series and then halfway through a book I'll remember I've read it.
In addition, this book was actually really good comparatively.
Her first novels were ridiculously cheesy but now that I think about it, I'm pretty sure the last few have been much better...
"Trace" was much more focused on her main characters and she actually gave them some depth.
The plot was less "OMG, we have to catch someone, but who?" and more about allowing the readers to get inside the heads of longstanding characters.
أحب دائماً أي مسلسل تلفزيوني يحمل عبارة CSI بغض النظر عن اسم المدينة ففي هذا النوع احترام لعقل المشاهد دعك عن الاثارة الموجودة فيها .. على عكس مسلسلاتنا التي تعج بالمشاكل والسخافات وبالطبع قبل أن أنسى (البويات) ومن غيرهن قراءة رواية الأثر كأنها مشاهدة ممتعه لعدة حلقات من تلك المسلسلات وبأسلوب يختلف عن اسلوب كاتي ريكس المليء بغرور وعنجهية الرجل الأبيض
Here's the goods - this is my first Scarpetta and am fully convinced, one hour in, that I should have started at the beginning to get into character because I am finding this ugly.So this can go, and I may try it again once I have the earlier numbers under my belt...maybe.
I've always been a huge Patricia Cornwell fan, especially of her Kay Scarpetta series. This book unfortunately was very dissapointing to me. It didn't seem to have much of the forensic investigation or murder investigations in it. In fact, all the murders had been commited by the start of the book. It's definately a take it or leave it book.
Trace involves a return to Richmond, Virginia, which had thrown Kay out on her ear five years ago.My TakeI didn't care for the screenplay feel of the writing, although it wasn't actually that obnoxious.
It's disjointed, vague, and I felt as though I was struggling to understand what was going on.The StoryRichmond is desperate for help on a perplexing case their current chief medical examiner hasn't a chance in hell of figuring out.Meanwhile, it's Lucy's fault that Kay and Benton missed out on their Aspen vacation.
Now Benton is trapped with a damaged sociopathic lover.The CharactersDr. Kay Scarpetta is still smarting from being tossed out of her position as the chief medical examiner in Richmond, Virginia.
Regardless of his name, EAP is the proverbial meek quiet employee who worked for Scarpetta till something went wrong and he is tipped over the edge of insanity bent on hurting Scarpetta.Kay is currently living and working in Florida when she is called by the current Medical Examiner to come back to Richmond and help solve the death of a 14 year old girl.
We learn about EAP's hatred for all things Scarpetta.
It is when Kay gets offended by others not calling her Dr. Scarpetta and instead calling her by her first name.
Lasāms krimiķis, bet šeit vairāk uzmanības izmeklētāju un laboratoriju darbam, intriga par vainīgo diezgan minimāla. Manuprāt, visām Skārpetas grāmatām ir tāda viegli depresīvi ikdienišķi nomācoša pieskaņa.. Skumju brīžos jāizvēlas kāds jestrāks gabals.
a bit tame after the events of the previous books but the added criminal insight is still refreshingp68: rudy didn't used to lecture her.p284: lucy had to get a flight physical right away because her medical certificate expired in two days.
A thriller that isn’t even close to thrilling. The ending is anti-climactic, the characters are unbelievable and stupid, and the plot is...I won’t even waste my time (at least, any more of my time than was already wasted on this stuff).
The story starts when Scarpetta returns to Richmond after five years to help on a case.I like this book because it is about solving cases and getting down to the truth.
Dr. Marcus is the one who called Scarpetta to come back to Richmond to work on the case of fourteen-year-old girl who died of no cause and no evidence why she died.
Also why how does a fourteen-year-old girl die if she doesn’t even have a reason or evidence of why she died.
The only way to find out who killed the fourteen-year-old girl and who is stalking Lucy life is to read this wonderful book.
A good kind of read.. but somethings are vague... something is left half said, half described, some incidents are hard to link to each other, you have to think back and work it all out.
However, I found myself coming up with new excuses to take breaks from reading this book and by the 100th page, was begging the author to go somewhere with the story line.
Also, the author starts out by talking about the very shady new chief medical examiner, delving deep into his character and also dedicating a small section of the book as a narrative from his POV (still figuring out why since it made less than zero contribution to the plot line) and then half way through the book he just disappears and is never spoken about again.
Not sure if I will read another book by this author.
Marino continues as her foil but brings about a more germane touch to the human side of life as opposed to just the scientific world of forensics (which are as ever full of intriguing detail).
We have three parallel stories evolving in this book.
Scarpetta's niece Lucy is in a world that to me seems unrealistic and is more of a James Bond type scenario, rather than one of reality and then linking the the stories together is a character called Edgar Alan Pogue Yes, he is psychologically challenged but I could not believe in him at all.
This book wasn't as good as I was hoping it would be.
I didn't even care much for Scarpetta in this book; her niece Lucy seemed to be a self-absorbed rich b***h; I don't know why she put certain characters in with others (she has Benton in Aspen "babysitting" Lucy's employee, who was attacked in Lucy's home).
There is no resolution of a feud between Scarpetta and Virginia's new chief medical examiner, and really no hint that this will be re-visited in a future book (maybe she resolves it in another novel, I haven't heard).
This book was quite a let down all the way around.
