https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12007.Use_of_Weapons
Especially when he was reading a book with a spaceship on the cover."Oh, just a sci-fi book," he muttered."What, like a Star War?" the man asked, his eyes now bright with attention.
"My kids love that Clone Wars show."This time the reader wasn't quick enough to stop himself.OneThe man looked up from the small gray device in his hand.
I could read 10 Culture books just to get more of the drones and talking spaceships!"Perdido Street Station seemed a better candidate for a divided audience, longer, more violent, and more a fantasy novel than sci-fi.
This is an absolute masterpiece. I don't think I really have anything else to add that others haven't already said. Read it.
if you are about to read this book please keep in mind this note about its structure: Use of Weapons employs two narratives in alternating chapters.
plus a prologue and two epilogues that occur entirely outside of the narrative.SECRET RAMBLINGS: (view spoiler)[I have this sick side of me that I rarely let out of its locked room.
that's a lot of futility, but Banks makes these little adventures so thoughtful and moving and often ambiguous that the futility is masked by the pleasure a reader can take in witnessing an author at the height of his powers construct a multi-leveled story that is telling many stories simultaneously.
I'd prefer to sit on the floor, thanks. No, really! I'll feel more comfortable that way.I'm sorry? Oh, just something I read. It doesn't matter. To be honest, I'd rather not talk about it.
So what was so damn surprising?I can't, I won't, tell you.*sigh* It's a long story, full of daring-do, future-feeling, peace-striving effort.It's also a story told backward, a reflection of now told one scene in the past going further and further back, fleshing out and building the character of the One Who Uses Weapons, eventually ending the book where he began.*sigh*I'm sorry.
This was and exhausting tale, thrilling and surprising.
I just have to sit down a moment.(Thanks, Manny, for the beautiful notion.)This book, like all that I've ever read by Iain M.
That should be enough for most tales.
Despite being the third of Banks' "Culture" science fiction novels to be published, he wrote a much more complex version of this story in 1974, before any of his books saw print.
The moral ambiguity and ethical contradictions of this are not lost on Zakalwe himself or on his Culture handler, the "Special Circumstances" operative Diziet Sma. Gloriously grostesque, sharply observed, bleakly satrical and written with Baink's unique ability to make the most vile aspects of war and violence lyrically beautiful and richly ironic at the same time, this is the great Scottish master at his finest.
I won't speak for anyone else on the passing of Iain (M.) Banks.
His books are always looming over my head in the stack beside my bed, but more importantly they are always hovering in my mind, working on me in my deepest recesses, making me ponder the world around me in ways I didn't before.
Use of Weapons is probably the book of Banks' that has affected me most.
In his way, Banks meant as much to me and who I am every day as my parents, my ex-wife, my wife, and my kids and all those others I've loved.
But: once it becomes clear that you’re dealing with a rather unique linear-forward and linear-reverse story structure it is somewhat easier to start putting things in perspective.
The individual drops became streaks with the slowness of the eye; they merged and re-emerged as cyphers for the shapes you carried inside you; they lasted less than a heartbeat in your sight and they went on for ever.He saw a chair, and a ship that was not a ship; he saw a man with two shadows, and he saw that which cannot be seen; a concept; the adaptive, self-seeking urge to survive, to bend everything that can be reached to that end, and to remove and to add and to smash and to create so that one particular collection of cells can go on, can move onwards and decide, and keeping moving, and keeping deciding, knowing that - if nothing else – at least it lives.And it had two shadows, it was two things; it was the need and it was the method.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Dark Underbelly of Utopia: "Use of Weapons" by Iain M.
I was one of those textbook cases - I had read just about everything by Enid Blyton in English as a child, and had never managed to make the jump (and what a jump it was!) to anything else, with a very tiny vocabulary.
Many years and many hundreds of books later, I'm still on that wonderful journey, and I'm thankful for having come across him at just the right moment in my life.
I guess it's good that he attracts fans of the literary genre to read sci-fi.
The focus is on the characters rather than any technology, but only the protagonist's character is actually interesting, and even that is achieved mostly by the cheap method of making him a cypher who is slowly revealed by flashback sequences throughout the book.
I guess Banks is making the point that all wars are the same and blur together, and it doesn't really matter which side wins.
But a book where all the plots are the same and the outcomes don't matter is not interesting to read!
We get hints of them here and there but it isn't until the end we get the full, devastating history of the man.Like the other books in this series Use of Weapons is self contained so you don't need to read the other books to understand what is going on in this one.
Use of Weapons succeeds both by telling Cheradenine Zakalwe's story and further fleshing out how Culture operates and relates to other space faring civilization.
ode to zakalwewhen all life is violencerooted, bound, inescapableeverything is a weapon.this cannot be overstated.memory, worship, flesh, loveinhibition, action, demand, careshoelace, knife, gun, nukeblood, shame, slinkythe gas chamber kills more thanthe good books kill more thanthe chemical weapons kill more thanthe pamphlet kills more thanthe meltdown kills more thanno. never more than us,for we are these weapons all.the mind, our mind, our mindsthe weapon, our weapon, our weaponsdeath? it's ineluctablei kill, therefore i am
I’ll tell them at the same time; see if you can tell which is which.”The hyper-advanced civilization that calls itself "The Culture" views itself as thoroughly utopian: post-scarcity, anarchistic yet pacifist, honest and easy-going, giving equal respect to all, whether mortal or machine.
He is terrifyingly willing to choose expediency over mercy, to use any method to manipulate his allies and foes; considering his life, he muses:"He saw a man with two shadows [...] it was two things: it was the need and it was the method.
Now Sma has been sent to retrieve him, because he’s the only one who can help defuse war brewing in another star cluster.The politics are a little byzantine, and there’s that constant sense, as with most Culture novels, that they don’t really matter.
What this part of the story does is set up a contrast between the way Zakalwe is proceeding now and the way he has operated in the past, as revealed in the flashback chapters with those descending Roman numerals.I don’t regret reading the entire book from front to back the first time through.
Ok, hard book to review. So, it's brilliant, but as you read it you might go, meh this is a little boggy. Then you get to the end, and, well. Just read it. *Mind Blown*.
The most "relaxing" way to read this book is to not try to understand how each "roman numeral" chapters connect to the previous chapters you have read, just read them as you would read independent short stories, bearing in mind that the connection will become clear by the end of the book.For me (I really want to stress the for me part) this book needs to be read twice for full appreciation, unfortunately while I quite like the book I am not so enamored of it that I would actually do that.
So this book introduced me to one of my new favorite drones: Skaffen-Amtiskaw.
But there were some things I enjoyed less: the general structure of the book got me so lost and confused, and even right at the end I still feel like I would need a complete re-read.
Now, on to my favorite part of the book: Skaffen-Amtiskaw, he's so fabulous.
And when Sma and Skaffen-Amtiskaw go to a party organized by the ship, Skaffen dresses up like the ship Xenophobe.
They both flashed back to their previous disguises as Sma turned slowly and looked at them both.'Our little drone can behave like an overdramatic toddler too.
Use of Weapons: A dark and brooding tale of warfare, manipulation and guiltOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureUse of Weapons (1990) is the third published novel in Banks’ Culture series, although it is actually a rewrite of a draft written much earlier that the author claims “was impossible to comprehend without thinking in six dimensions.” Well, for readers who generally dwell in just three or four dimensions, the narrative structure of Use of Weapons is fairly complex until you get used to it.The story has two narrative tracks, one set in the present and moving forward in time (Chapter 1, 2, 3, etc), and a second track set in the past and moving backwards in time (VIII, VII, VI, etc).
The book's title refers both to the way in which the main character, Cheradinine Zakalwe, ruthlessly uses every available weapon to win his wars, and to the way in which the Culture uses Zakalwe himself.
They attempt to guide the fate of less developed societies in order to make them "more civilized", but the connection between Zakalwe's actions and the Culture's goals is never explored.
But if the end does not justify the means, then Zakalwe can never be redeemed by fighting the Culture's wars.I thought this was a thought-provoking and beautifully written book, but it's definitely not for everyone.
Whether or not the destination is interesting, the journey must be, because your reader is going to spend many hours, of their own free will, making that journey.Without that sense of responsibility -- without unusual length -- there's nothing to stop an author from writing an uninteresting journey that is putatively justified by its destination.
Oh, dear reader, wouldn't you like to know?I should probably have stopped reading halfway through when it became clear that I wasn't actually interested in the (non-)plot or in any of the characters.
You spend the whole time wondering what the fuck is going on…at some point you start picking up the clues and towards the end you feel like you have probably solved it in the way the author intended – but we’ll just read on to the end to check.ii MAYBE 6 But it explains something.
of this says:Despite being the third of Banks' "Culture" science fiction novels to be published, he wrote a much more complex version of this story in 1974, before any of his books saw print.
Banks’ Culture as a pretty ideal society.
This book shattered that somewhat for me, as it contains a lot of war & violence, plus a really cruel twist as the end of the novel.
What can you do if you live in the Culture, but you’re not an easily entertained, peace-loving guy?
Even some of the Machine Minds in this one seem to be destructive and cruel.But Banks accomplished what I think he wanted to—making his readers rethink what the Culture is all about (and maybe rethinking some the assumptions about their own culture).

Majorly disappointed in this one. The first Culture books are amongst my favourites but this is very flaky, confusing and a trifle boring. I will continue with the series, but this was a struggle.
Nevertheless...There are some that claim that Iain Banks' Culture novels can be read out of order because while they all take place in the same Universe, they concern different characters and stories.
The second storyline moves backwards in time and explores his motivations, his relationship with the Culture and how he gets the hell beaten out of him repeatedly.
As with the previous two novels, we get cool glimpses into the Culture, technology, weapons, space travel and a whole GSV full of moral ambiguity.Make no mistake: this is a dark story - Banks' penchant for torture and pain is wel-established.
He is a man we slowly discover we should hate, yet he is a man I can't help loving.
He is everything at once, and I can't help loving him, even though I shouldn't, and that may be Iain M.
Banks greatest literary achievement -- making us love Zakalwe.
In fact, making Cheradenine Zakalwe likeable is a Herculean task, but that was Banks' goal and Banks' success and Banks' greatest achievement.Use of Weapons gets better every time I read or listen to it (and Peter Kenny's reading is some of the best vocal acting I have ever heard), so please read it, friends, and tell me what you think.
People expecting an adventure might be a little disappointed as this is more of a character study with a complex and somewhat aggravating structure that constructs his story through flashbacks.
Each of the threads in this book are interesting enough for their own book, but Bank’s uses them as dressing to tell his story with grand style and imagination.
This book is also a meditation on war and violence like the Catch 22 and Slaughterhouse 5, where those use humor to confront the absurdity, this book despite some great wit from many of the characters is pretty relentlessly grim and tragic (and quite gory in many parts).
"And it had two shadows, it was two things; it was the need and it was the method. The need was obvious; to defeat what opposed its life. The method was that taking and bending of materials and people to one purpose, the outlook that everything could be used in the fight; that nothing could be excluded, that everything was a weapon, and the ability to handle those weapons, to find them and choose which one to aim and fire; that talent, that ability, that use of weapons."Beautiful, lyrical prose. Engrossing, wonderful story. Disappointing, improbable conclusion.
3.5 stars, rounding up. It slogged in parts, and I ultimately didn't connect all the plot threads. But rounding up because there were moments of brilliance.
When the peace loving Culture needs a war, Zakalwe is the weapon they use.
The Culture might be able to endlessly repair Zakalwe's physical body, but how many lifetimes worth of wars does it take to break a mind?
We are always aware that there is something terrible in Zak's past and as the book progresses we gradually get closer to ground zero.Somewhere along the way I lost interest in the main story arc.
When we finally come to Zakalwe's origins, it was all at once brilliant and terrible and like totally messed up.
