https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781662.The_Mass_Psychology_of_Fascism
A wonderful book. Through his Freudian-Marxist anlaysis, Reich shows how the sadistic character of race ideology is an extreme expression of patriarchal and opressive family structure. As he puts it, 'fascist mentality is the mentality of the subjugated "little man" who craves authority and rebels against it at the same time'.
I often wonder if I am a fascist, and I know people who for sure hate Fascism to their very bone, yet I believe that they are fascists in their heart.
In fact I wonder if Fascism is somewhat in our DNA.
I often think the family trait, the love of animals, and a sense of order is somehow tied in to Fascism.
The need to belong to some social group.
Isn't it better to join than be apart?
Isn't our very sexual need is to be with someone?
is Fascism connected to our sexuality.
I am just wondering...
He also asserts that there is nothing more terrifying to the average person than the responsibility entailed in this level of freedom.As Reich outlines, the reactionary right knows exactly how to appeal to these unconscious fears and anxieties - by creating even more rigid and authoritarian structures that provide immediate, but only temporary relief, from these inner anxieties.He is also extremely critical of leftists and progressives for wasting their time trying to engage the working poor about political and economic injustice without first addressing their innate fear of freedom and social responsibility.
While I'm not sure I buy (or even fully understand) his theories of sex economics (the orgasmotrom and orgone theories - and its related accumulator don't appear in this book particularly), his analysis of not only the rise of fascism, but authoritarian regimes in general are fascinating: he pays particular attention to Stalinism alongside the Nazis.
The long chapter entitled "The Masses and the State" is best disection of the insidious rise of authoritarian dictatorships that I've read.
The Problem is deeper and more serious." "The 'revolutionary proletariat' flies into the arms of a political party or trade union, which does not burden them with any responsibility and imbues them with the illusion that they are the 'leading class'.
He included some shots on America at the time for our persistent racism, and did not stay focused on simply traditional fascism.Ultimately, the conclusion as I read it, is that it is not simply charismatic, psychopathic leaders that lead us to fascism, they are just a byproduct of a society that is highly irrational and an "emotional plague." Through centuries of sexual repression, class-ism, political demagoguery, and allowing comfort to prevent us from truly being free we have become more mechanical and ultimately manipulable.Our hope lies in Love, Work and Knowledge.
From this angle, one can see that Fascism is merely a radical expression of the dark elements of a preexisting social neurosis that has its roots in the development of patriarchy and the nation-state.Religion and religious-based morality, of course, play large roles in the repression of sexuality and the maintenance of an authoritarian social structure, in that they teach people to regard their sexual impulses as sinful at the same time as they teach the worship of a grand father figure.
I wanted to read some Reich since I first read about him in Kerouac and Burroughs and Robert Anton Wilson.
He was as weird as I expected.
He made me think about some things in totally new ways which was fun.
Irrationality, sexual repression, a patriarchal society, and mysticism prepare the people for the fear and madness needed to support a Hitler or Stalin (or even a not-quite so fascist G.
Reich first published this under the Hitler regime and they wanted to kill him for it.
The German Communists told him that if they took over Germany they would kill him for it.
good for the synthesis of Marx and Freud, a simpler predecessor to Deleuze & Guattari. bad for the rampant assumptions: 1) sexual repression during childhood is the root of all evils 2) people are innately good 3) there is an objective rationality which is evident to all once their illusions are stripped away. None of these are sufficiently defended, and Reich makes the typical mistake of overestimating the importance of his own discoveries.
A very deep analysis of what leads the average person to fascism. He links a lot of his theory to his "sex-economy" beliefs so it helped that I have already read a couple of this books on that topic. This was first written in 1932 just as Nazism was rising, and much of it still holds up well.
Fascism through a Freudian and Marxist lens.
It has a complete ignorance on supposed unnaturalness of homosexuality and some supremely mystical stuff about orgone energy (which has been proven to be quite a bogus theory...) .Despite the flaws, one of the few books that I am aware of that successfully give a deep analysis of the mass psychology of fascism.Some say this is sexuallly deterministic, some say Wilhelm Reich was crazy when he wrote this.
Most importantly is the deep understanding that repression (sexual is just one kind) and authoritarian tendencies go hand in hand .
He synthesizes Freudian Psychology and Marxism in a very refreshing and honest way.Some of his analyses unfortunately can be repetitive to the point exhaustion and at other times he presents his conclusions as complete and holistic when they actually focus too narrowly on a particular dimension of social life.Much of the work is impressive, passionate, and courageous especially considering the time in which this was written.
Some of the psychology he uses comes off as pretty dated and less accurate than some more modern post-structural analyses, but are still very intuitive and surprisingly relevant.This was a laborious read but interesting nonetheless.
Impressive and important.However, I fully agree with Martin Kitchen's assessment in "Fascism"(1976):'an extraordinary book which combines brilliant insight with passages of pure nonsense".Reich raises a few important questions, ("why did the Social Revolution of 1917 fail?""why is the worker not conscious of his condition?""is freedom for the mass really impossible?" etc.) but sometimes his answers are too deterministic and way too narrow.
I think it's fair to speak of a relaxation of sexual repression, but rape, mental illness, crime, neurotic behaviour, etc.
is still very present today: so what is the result of his projected sexual revolution?
Does this mean that sexual repression is not THE inhibtion that prevents us to reach our 'free society'?
There's a great scene in this book where he describes how the parents of a teenage girl who had been raised agnostic one day found their child praying fervently. After some investigation, they discovered that she'd started masturbating, had felt super-guilty and so fell to praying despite the fact that she hadn't been brought up in any faith. This reminded me of my own hyper-religious period that started after puberty and continued until I was 20 or so. There are many terrific insights in this pre-crazy period of Reich's.
great look at what it takes to make a fascist state, how the people behave individually as well as as a whole, what pieces need to be in place and how a government or society can cultivate certain elements to insure that the populace goes along with whatever the plan might be, it also eerily familiar.
An essential read for understanding the rise of fascism in our own times. Chilling and accurate. Uncomfortable and important.
Remains one of the best works on fascism ever written. Read this in my late teens and it permanently changed my sociopolitical outlook from that point forward
Essentially, the idealization and deification of motherhood, which are so flagrantly at variance with the brutality with which the mothers of the toiling masses are actually treated, serve as a means of preventing women from gaining a sexual consciousness, of preventing the imposed sexual repression from breaking through and of preventing sexual anxiety and sexual guilt feelings from losing their hold.”“The ideology extolling the ‘blessings of large families’ is necessary for the preservation of the authoritarian family” (I could just see the Duggars here).Interestingly, even then there was the contradiction between women being in support of having birth control yet voting for politicians who would restrict their access to it, and Dr. Reich argues that this is due to fear of responsibility.
Then again, we humans ARE awfully fucked up about sex (pun intended), and there's a lot of merit here to Reich's main argument: if we weren't so gorram uptight about our drives and desires, manipulative leaders wouldn't be able to use that energy for fascistic ends.
I mean, good job appealing to your opponent using language he'll understand, but it's a hell of a lot of gobbledygook and theory to wade through.
Although I don't buy the whole package, there are enough good points in here to make Reich's theories remain relevant and workable in the Trump era.
This book gave great insight into the current events in the culture wars.
I now have a clear understanding of The social engineering of the Liberal regime hiding behind "Love".
Because as a true hippie I choose not too judge others personally for their ideas, but I do believe those Ideas should have a rational grounding.
But in turn I do not feel I should be condemned for not agreeing.
After a recent Fallout with someone I thought was my Best-friend I read this to realize he was socially engineered to be what he condemns in conservatives.
an Eye opener for sure.
The 17 page preface to the third edition, written in 1942, is all you really need to read. It says it all in a succinct manner. The rest of the book is unnecessarily detailed and diffuse. At this time in our history, I definitely recommend reading that preface because the mass psychology of fascism is all around us right now....
Excellent, and insightful book. I don't agree with all his premises. but, still a really fascinating read. Especially, in tight of today
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Definitely a book to read in these current times..."Big truck, small penis" ;)
Damn.
applicable to the 21st century However with an American Technocratic TwistBig Brother knows you like family--
Reich was a family physician in Germany leading up to and during Hitler's reign of power and this book discusses the patterns and changes in attitude and psychological complaints of his patients as the people transitioned to a Nazi-controlled government.
Great for anyone who has wondered if they would have went along with the extremes of Nazism during that time and in that situation or if they would have thought differently.In response to the reviews discussing the title and not the book itself --- I think you are mistaking the definition of fascism in this book.
Reich is specifically talking about fascist government even more specifically about Hitler's fascist government organization.
Great great great if you value individuality and would probably be terrible if you were a robot.
Reich as a psychiatrist observed that the repression of sexuality in society, especially from a young age, prepares people for lifetimes of neurotic self-hatred as some of their most basic and healthy life functions become embedded with deep shame and guilt.
Reich stresses that children and adolescents and women are perpetually denied control over their sexual feelings and bodies, which is what gives the patriarchal father so much power in the family, and therefore the repression of masses of people becomes the seed that grows authoritarian/fascist political movements.(I will write more on this train of thought in my review of Yes Means Yes!)There's a lot more in this book.
O „masovnoj psihologiji“ moguće je naći razne članke i recenzije koje upućuju na modernost i aktualnost građe djela, te u kojima se određeni aspekti izvlače kako bi se opisalo situaciju u vlastitom okruženju, a koja eventualno podsjeća na neke momente nastupanja nacional-socijalista u Njemačkoj prije dolaska na vlast 1933.
Sve se ove stavke mogu prepoznati u neposrednoj blizini, te je nužnost da se dogodi jedna široka recepcija ove knjige u javnosti, kako bi svaki pojedinac raspolagao alatima potrebnima za raskrivanje fašističkih momenata u bilo kojem aspektu društva kojemu pripada.
I'm basically in agreement with his ideas about the individual allure of fascism, though his linking of sexual repression with fascism is a little too Oedipal (i.e.
Reich's writing is also very long-winded and seems to go on and on just to make the same point over again (and he's unfortunately short with parts I found interesting, such as the proposition that a swastika is a sexual symbol (actually, it's a frustrating cop-out that he basically says "obviously everyone can see it's people in coitus" -- which I sort of struggled to see)).The "solution" is just downright frustrating.
More alienated work, more civilization, etc.
You need to read this book if you ever wondered why Hitler was so popular and why the other Germans allowed him to persecute innocent people.
I'd also recommend _Games_People_Play_ by Eric Berne.This book explores fascism completely, from the therapeutic perspective.
The interesting thing I thought about was how possible fascism is due to the psychic fact that it underlies a lot of other facts.
It is always threatening to come to the fore of the imagination.
It is constantly a possibility that it could become political again.I really only read through the first three chapters.
I'll come back and update this later with a fuller treatment.
