https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/704584.The_Untold_Legend_of_the_Batman
Just best Batman origin story pre-Frank Miller's Batman: Year One.
Alfred basically hijacking Bruce's mansion is probably my favorite part of this story. I constantly forget that the origins of Batman were akin to an acid trip, but it's always worth revisiting.
Kinda silly, even taking into account the era it comes from. Still, a fun overview of pre-crisis Batman.
This particular edition loses a star for the fact that it's a mass market paperback reprint of the comics.
In this version, the artwork is all black and white—which, admittedly, looks pretty good—and the panels have been rearranged to fit the format.
I wish DC Comics would actually collect the issues in a proper trade (or within an anthology along the lines of The Greatest Batman Stories Every Told or Batman in the Eighties).
Jim Aparo's artwork is excellent (as is John Byrne's, for the few pages he contributes).
Somebody is leaving cryptic messages for Batman - inside his very home - and as he, Alfred and Robin investigate, their thoughts return to the past: how they became who they are and joined forces to fight crime! Wein delivers an exciting mystery that is a must-read for fans of the Dark Knight! As the darkness closes in and the messages become deadlier, Batman must find a way to break free of horrors that have been clutching at him for too long...
Good, decent story. I've read this as child, so - nostalgia overload. Even those audios.. Ah.
its awesome because its Batman....
An interesting approach towards retelling the origin of Batman, Robin, Alfred and several of the more popular Batman villains.The fun begins when Batman receives a package in the mail...
the tattered remains of the original Batman costume, worn by his father to a Costume party, shortly before he died.
The costume, which was supposed to be safely locked away in the Bat Cave, had been stolen, destroyed, and returned.
As Batman tracks down the perpetrator of this heinous crime, he and his friends and enemies are reminded of the early days of The Batman, and what it means to be a super hero.
An interesting look at Batman pre-Year One. At first, many of the differences seemed weird and not quite right. But in retrospect, I like that Alfred came to Gotham later (jives with Snyder's backups in the Court of the Owls), I like that Bruce's father inspired the costume, and I like that Bruce was actually the first Robin.The art was quite expressive and beautiful. One star off for it being in black and white, and the ending, which seemed rather abrupt. Good, classic Batman origin.
five stars its classic batman gorgeous correct art work it is brilliantly told the origins of the Bat Man and then Bat family as it was by 82 the cast of characters and the story is brilliantly told tho i chose to gloss over some of them down side its dated it is what it is what we new of Bats and bruce by 82 so still 70s mould but good read ,and such a shame in black and white this needs a proper graphic novel to it Up there with Knight fall and no mans land
At first a well written story that gives folks the chance to catch up on some back story of some the more major characters in Batmans world. Defiantly a pre curser to the on coming Adamantium Age of comics were convoluted mysterious back stories reigned supreme. The ending seemed rushed and was somewhat confusing
I thought that I knew the full origins of Batman and Robin until I read this.All that I can say without ruining the story is that it is a must read!Kudos to Len Wein for a story that I shall never forget.
Good story of the origins on Batman. Good plot and art. Recommended
Clásico generacional que redefinió el origen del personaje en su primer tramo de existencia, pero acusa el envejecimiento de su premisa. Para fans y revisionistas.
Pretty decent. Black and white.
The Untold Legend of the Batman by Len Wein (1992)
The book is amazing.
This was my first formal introduction to Batman as a kid. And while I can honestly say it is not the best Batman book ever written, it is a great starting point.
Eh.
