https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40722.The_Sportswriter
What I found particularly disturbing about the first-person narrator and main character, Frank Bascombe, was the way Frank would always project motives, backgrounds, ideas and futures onto all the people he encountered -- family, friends, strangers.
It was a kind of poison.The other disturbing thing about Frank was the way he would always tell you, the reader, that what he said to people was not what he really felt or what he really thought.
Talk about living in a kind of hell.At one point in the novel, Frank tells the reader the divorced men’s club, where he is a member, is composed of men who are all Babbitts, himself included.
Now that I’ve lived a lot more life, I get it.Most of all, I get Ford’s Everyman hero, Frank Bascombe, a 38-year-old, divorced man with two kids (one has died), who works at a sports magazine after he gave up a promising literary career and lives alone (he’s got an African boarder) in a New Jersey suburb.I get Frank’s vague yearnings, his dreaminess, his little tragedies, his big ones, his successes, his failures, his compromises, his phone calls to people he used to know, his relationship with someone who’s totally inappropriate, his thoughts about his ex-wife (called, literally, X – to protect her identity?), his gestures of civility, his good Southern manners, his excusable prejudices, his inexcusable ones, his impulsive decisions, his crippling indecisions, his outward geniality and actual remoteness… in the end, I get his valiant, noble attempt to try to live with dignity in a sad, unfair yet frequently beautiful world.You don’t have to know much about sports to appreciate Ford’s gorgeous, melancholy book.
Frank Bascombe, he is the sportswriter, and he is the first-person narrator of this novel which takes a slanted and sometimes brutal look at the failings of a 20th century American family, especially of the father and husband, Frank himself.
We learn early in the story that Frank is not a happy person, and with good reason most of us would agree.
You may not like Frank Bascombe when you are finished, but you will know him, and you will feel for him, and you may even recognize something of yourself in him.
A sort-of friend comes out and on to him, ending badly.
The above really tells nothing about the book.
It is one of beautiful language, tone, self-inspection, how one lives one’s life in the world.
It is about expectations of life and of ourselves.
P 24All we really want is to get to the point where the past can explain nothing about us and we can get on with life.
The amount of precious time you’ll squander on someone else’s calamities and fuck-ups.P 183I’ve quit becoming, is what it feels like.
Only I stopped at the wrong time.
This takes a long way to get where its going; however the last third of the book is quite good.
Inconsistent and with too frequently one dimensional dialogue, however when it is good, it is very good, reminding the reader of Phillip Roth or John Cheever.
Ford's protagonist Frank Bascombe is an existential wreck and deals with life as it comes to him, not having given up, but surviving.Ford would win the Pulitzer prize for the follow up to this work, 1995's Independence Day, and his talent is evident.
The Sportswriter started out really strong for me - seemed thoughtful and familiar and American, a bit like Stegner's Crossing to Safety.
But after a while, say about 250 pages, I stopped finding the character thoughtful and subtle and started thinking he was kind of a boorish self-serving windbag.
I think I also didn't believe him that the New Jersey suburbs were the real stuff of life, as he thought.
Maybe all of this was sort of the point, but I felt like, well, I knew all that already.
The Sportswriter: Richard Ford's Bleak View of the American Dream The Sportswriter, 1st Edition, Vintage, 1986  "My name is Frank Bascombe. I am a sportswriter.For the past fourteen years I have lived here at 19 Hoving Road, Haddam, New Jersey, in a large Tudor house bought when a book of short stories I wrote sold to a movie producer for a lot of money, and seemed to set my wife and me and our three children--two of whom were not even born yet--up for a good life.Just exactly what that good lif
I am a sportswriter.For the past fourteen years I have lived here at 19 Hoving Road, Haddam, New Jersey, in a large Tudor house bought when a book of short stories I wrote sold to a movie producer for a lot of money, and seemed to set my wife and me and our three children--two of whom were not even born yet--up for a good life.Just exactly what that good life was--the one I expected--I cannot tell you now exactly, though I wouldn't say it has not come to pass, only that much has come in between.
His young son died of a wasting disease and his wife left him with his other children when she found evidence that he cheated on her during one of his trips to cover a sporting event.The book takes place over an Easter weekend that begins with Frank meeting his ex-wife (that he refers to only as X) at their son's grave on the anniversary of his death, and most of the book deals with Frank's inner monologue about the way things should be.Frank claims to love the solid suburban lifestyle he still clings to even after his divorce and has nothing but thinly veiled contempt for academics and other artsy types, even though he used to be one.
Ford comes from the Richard Russo school of writing, in that he seems to think that inundating the reader with detail will somehow make the book more real, or authentic (I call it that because Russo's Empire Falls was the first book I read that I felt that way about).
The issue is the endless descriptions of how dreamy and content Bascombe is with the suburbs.
Part of the reason he quit writing fiction was that he felt that fictional character's issues were unrealistic in their intensity and simplicity, and that real life is much more complex and occurs in shades of gray.
Το έψαχνα για αρκετά χρόνια, το βρήκα πριν από καμιά 4ετία σε άριστη κατάσταση κ έκτοτε έκανε τη διαδρομή κομοδίνο-ράφι αμέτρητες φορές. Φαίνεται πως έπρεπε να το πάω στον Ford να το υπογράψει (κάτι που δεν συνηθίζω να πω την αλήθεια) για να το ξεκινήσω αμέσως μετά.Ότι χρειάζεται να ξέρει κανείς υπάρχει στο οπισθόφυλλο (νομίζω ότι είναι μια απ'τις καλύτερες περιλήψεις που έχω συναντήσει ποτέ). Το μοναδικό που θα προσθέσω είναι η προφανής απορία: υπάρχει περίπτωση η Ημέρα Ανεξαρτησίας να είναι έστω κ λίγο καλύτερη από αυτό το φανταστικό βιβλίο;
Beautiful writing. This was like reading an Edward Hopper painting. Loneliness, sadness and beauty.
Κάπου μια υποδόρια μελαγχολία, οι σκηνές με την πρώην σύζυγο σου έχουν ζωντάνια και μια ανάμνηση μιας χαμένης ζωής, που ήταν τα όνειρα σου που ήθελες να γίνεις συγγραφέας ;Κάπου πήγε να με αγγίξει, κάπου όχι, αλλά θα ξαναρωτήσω : ποιο ακριβώς είναι το πρόβλημα σου φίλε ;Το να τα παρατήσεις όλα και να πας να γυρνάς στις παραλίες, ΟΚ και εγώ θέλω να το κάνω.
I have read Ford's recent short story collection, “A Multitude of Sins,” and a number of his other short stories published in The New Yorker.The Sportswriter, which takes place over an Easter Weekend, represents something of a turning point in writer Frank Bascomb’s life.
The quiet, reflective, somber tone that Ford sets during this meeting follows Frank on a trip to Detroit to interview a former athlete, Easter dinner with his girlfriend’s family, a visit to the residence of a not-quite friend who has committed suicide, and a late-night train to New York.During and between the first-person descriptions of these various set pieces, Frank weaves back and forth through his life.
Like reading a piece of poop.
There's reason to believe that he's making a conscious attempt to portray a man who is detached from his own emotions, since Bascombe divorced his wife after the death of their oldest son.
There's also reason to believe that Ford is just a very limited writer, since on the night Bascombe's wife discovers his infidelities, she sets fire to her .
"The Sportswriter" proves, through negative example, the maxim that novelists should avoid the word "all," since Ford uses it in, well, all the worst ways, including lazy descriptions ("like all hometown suburbs") and obnoxious generalizations ("all writers want this").
Self-absorbed baby boomer muses unitelligibly about life/sports.
I didn't understand what the main character was talking about most of the time, the dialoge was terrible and practically incoherent.
And EVERY time the main character noticed someone whose ethnicity was other than waspy, he pointed it out: The Polack football player, the Negro cabdriver (Negro?
Maybe you have to be a self-obsessed baby boomer to appreciate this book, not the child of one.
There was all this mention of feelings, but no real introspection or thought to justify the author's contstantly telling me dude was "dreamy," whatever that means.
I hope the narcissistic baby boomer genre is over, like chick lit.
After reading "Canada" and "The Sportswriter", I have come to the conclusion that I just don't care for Richard Ford's writing.
Ford used repetition in both the books I read but not to any advantage.
Ford tries to convince us that Frank is somehow dreamy; however, this reader didn't buy it.
Hardly the kind of man to be throwing around Negro and colored in the '80's.
In the end, if I want to read about a kind of creepy, misogynistic guy who spends a lot of time thinking about himself, I'll stick to Rabbit Angstrom.
My wife divorced me after she became disillusioned with me and I turned to other women to reaffirm my value.
This change in our relationship and resulting divorce was precipitated by the death of our nine year old son, but I have always avoided any challenge and sought mediocrity.
This talent also helps me with the ladies, which I hit on continually with fair success as an escape from my lack of genuine connection to anybody, thing or place.
Some who have read my story say that I am everyman, but other readers with a little more concern for humankind certainly hope that is not the case.
Maybe not just now—my first two books deal with the issues of one who (falsely?) thinks themselves exceptional.*The Sportswriter* is, I think, something that every adult should read, even those such as myself who don't like sports.
But that's precisely the point: *The Sportswriter* is about coming to terms with where you find yourself, which is likely in some way a disappointment to you, but nevertheless full of charm because after all, this is what life is and it is all you have.As much as I love this book, though, I must admit that I lost momentum several times while reading it: the shock of hearing the ordinary praised so eloquently cannot quite carry the whole book.
The writing style will not be to everyone's taste but it's a deep and thoughtful book tinged with a hint of melancholia.It does drag at times but i stuck with it and was richly rewarded.As the book only spans a few days there is a lot of thinking back to the past during moments in the present which works very well.I think if you are thirtysomething and pondering about life you will relate to this book.
Creo que no me equivoqué.Si bien entiendo, Bascombe tiene una edad similar a la mía en el tiempo de esta novela, quizá un par de años más grande de lo que yo soy ahora, y quizá, sea por ello que logro sentirme en cierta parte identificado con los andares de este joven anciano, o de este joven adulto con cierta sabiduría que asocio con la ancianidad.
Más desde que trabajo desde una pequeña oficina montada en nuestro departamento.Frank Bascombe se me revela como una especie de hermano mayor, no mucho, apenas unos años más que yo, y con quien por fin puedo conversar sin pelear, sin discutir, sin ignorar.
Frank remains silent, and X, releasing the trapped fury created by the death of her son, her deteriorating marriage, and now the apparent infidelity of her husband, tears apart her hope chest and burns it in the fireplace.
There’s X burning her hope chest; Frank’s aborted interview with a paraplegic former footballer who believes he’s still on the team; Frank’s Easter day visit to his girlfriend’s parents’ house, where the father has assembled an entire car in the basement; the post office losing the only copy of Frank’s first novel.
About ten years ago I read the second book in this triglogy -- Independence Day, for which writer Richard Ford won a Pulitzer, and found his writing quite nice.
But this wasn't the type of writing I remembered.The book follows Frank Bascombe over an Easter weekend as he drifts around in his own mind, recalling the death of his son a few years prior and his recent divorce, with a woman only known as X.
The book takes place in the (then) present day 1986 New Jersey, not in the 1960's south.
Another book I couldn't finish. Sigh. This is about as dry as it gets, and the first half of the book is spent inside Bascombe's head. 200 pages of introspection just doesn't do it for me.

A weird book but a good book. Too odd for a star rating. Frank would understand some things are too complicated for stars
(I also did not like "Rabbit Run", the only one of those I got through.) While many of the characters in this novel are interesting, I never felt I got deeper than a surface glimpse of any of them.
They are mostly miserable.
Like many books that stem from the "I know how to write because I got an MFA in Complete Sentences," school of fiction, the prose never engaged me beyond the fact that there were words on a white piece of paper.
In fact, the main character's narration makes him appear bored with his existence.
His relationship with men are abysmal, as he keeps them at arms length, even as tries to convince himself that all he needs is some good male bonding (he fantasizes about fishing with Vicki’s father and brother; the divorced men’s club he’s in provides little in the way for comfort, and though he admits his lukewarm feelings for the institution, he somehow thinks it’s good for him and that he needs it).
The most impressive aspect of this novel is the way that Ford is able to write a thoroughly convincing and sympathetic narrator, whom I trust completely, while at the same time cannot admit, or somehow cannot realize, that not only is he depressed, but he’s more or less okay with it.
Es illustriert das Gegenteil von ökonomischem Erzählen, wie Ford ein Osterwochenende des Sportreporters Frank Bascombe wiedergibt, frei nach dem Motto: Nichts ist schwerer zu ertragen als eine Reihe von Feiertagen.
Und gerade die Momente, über die manch anderer Autor hinweggehen würde, machen die besondere Stärke Fords aus: Die Dialoge mit allen Platitüden, mit Leerformeln, mit dem Willen, etwas Tieferes zu erfassen oder auch gerade den Tiefgang abzuwehren, das fängt Ford ein wie kein zweiter.Inhaltlich dazu passend geht's um die Spannung zwischen Durchschnittlichkeit und Oberflächlichkeit auf der einen und Sinnsuche und Schicksalbewältigung auf der anderen Seite.
This was a lonely book about a lonely man who does and says things that you disagree with.
In contrast, Ford makes Bascombe into a caring and intuitive character who catches himself from saying something to spare a persons feelings only to ruin it by asking them to hop into bed moments later.
Frank Basombe is one of the truest human beings i have found in literature.The book mostly takes place over the course of three days.
Many things happen happen to poor Frank Bascombe that day, any one of which would probably ruin my day.
Frank however soldiers on saying misplaced or inappropriate things.
