https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40021.A_Slipping_Down_Life
This little book has a punch; the feel of a Carson McCullers story with the descriptive flair of Markus Zusak.Zusak from the Book Thief; "The day was gray, the color of Europe. Curtains of rain were drawn around the car".Tyler from A Slipping-Down Life; "While she was waiting on the front porch, clutching her books to her chest, disapproval hung like a fog up and down her street".Of course this book was published six years before Zusak was born. Just a good book, plot, characters, style, all combined to create a little gem.
I read this book having failed to complete a viewing of the movie; reading the book has put me more firmly in the "what on earth were they thinking" camp.
It is, I think, the worst film adaptation I have ever encountered.
I suppose I suggest you watch it, try to guess what the book might have been, and then read the book, simply because the (bad) movie is tremendously strange and then more strange when you realize where it started.As for the book, it offers a window into the predicament that faced small-town American teenagers in the late '60s.
Near the end of Anne Tyler's A SLIPPING-DOWN LIFE, I felt the needle on my care meter move. I hadn't expected to be touched by "Drumstrings" and Evie or their dreams and needs. And then the moment came when I stopped feeling as if I were taking a Rorschach test with this "odd couple" on every card. The inscrutable inkblots have real people in them -- or people who become real. So the work gets a slipping-UP rating, three stars instead of two.
All in all, Evie's life is terribly lonely - until she hears the voice of 'Drumstrings' Casey on the radio.
With her only friend, Violet, she discovers where Drumstrings is singing next and goes to see his show.It is while she is attending Drumstrings' shows, that Evie truly bursts out of her lonely shell - once and for all - and comes under the intense scrutiny of the one man who at first seemed so intangible to her.
In the space of time that it takes Evie to commit a single drastic act, her life is irrevocably changed.
Overall, I give A Slipping-Down Life by Anne Tyler a definite A!
I'm not quite clear on that) Evie's only goal seems to be furthering Drum's career & they seem to have a strange relationship which results in their marriage, despite the apparent lack of real affection between them.
The story concludes with the death of Evie's father & the unsurprising - to me anyhow - break up of their marriage with Evie returning to her father's home, alone & pregnant.
A sad but at times sweet yet unsettling story & while I liked it I can't help feeling I've missed the point of it!
She writes about quirky characters with such art, fleshing out their traits and circumstances.
I think it's because both the main characters, the girl, who's an outsider at school, and the boy, a musician who has a habit of blurting out sentences that make little or no sense, are apathetic.
They both have caring parents and yet there seems to be no connection with them, no love or anger shown.
But on the whole, since the main characters didn't seem to care, I didn't either.
But all art, including books, are subjective.
3.5 starsA very eccentric tale about a 17 year old plump average looking girl who is apparently obsessed with a struggling guitarist nicknamed Drum, and carves his name on her forehead.
Therein starts a slow and steady drumroll of events which culminate abruptly.
This is not a love story, neither is it a story progression.
I couldn't fully fathom the emotions of the two main characters.
Clotilia, the maid, and Mr. Dekker, the father, thouh secondary characters, were powerfully portrayed.
This was a slow paced, but highly entertaining short novel.Would recommend this to anyone who likes out of the way themes.
Evie Decker is a teenager who's not popular at school, not particularly pretty or talented, and not especially engaged with her humdrum existence.
She has a well-meaning but distant father and one good friend in classmate Violet, but other than that, people don't notice her much.
All that changes when Evie, on a seeming whim, starts devotedly following a local rock singer.
The drastic lengths she goes to in order to prove her devotion earn her notoriety at school, and the notice of the aloof singer himself.
This is probably my least favorite Anne Tyler novel so far.
3.2***Edie is a relatively unmotivated teen until she discovers the singer Drumstrings Casey. In a violent out of character move she captures his attention, only to eventually begin to wonder if he was work it. Edie is at once bland and fathomless, I kept reading to see what she would do next.
I ain't but nineteen years old and already leading a slipping down life."Ok, not to spoiler your reading experience to come but this line was my favorite moment in this book and made me think of my favorite novel about the anticlimactic reality of adulthood, Rabbit, Run.This little slip of a novel is a real change of pace if you are more accustomed to Tyler's later, more famous efforts chronicling the disaffected lives of the middle-aged.
But what else can you expect from a girl whose whole social universe is one friend, an indifferent maid and a father who doesn't know how old she is?
'A Reader's Digest vocabulary test [was] neatly filled out in pencil.' This, a poignant vignette of the scene surveyed that wryly but also gently catches the character of the deceased.So Tyler can really write.But this is not a good novel, or at least not a good enough one.
And I will read more of Tyler, mainly because in an interview (https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...) I happened upon when I was half way through the novel, she herself wished she could destroy her first four books (A Slipping Down Life is her third), saying "Just wipe them out.
What's more to catch a singers' attention than to slash her own forehead with his name?Ms. Tyler’s third novel retains her gift for characterization and dialogue.
The novel is also adapted to screen with the same title, and I just wonder why they have to make the plump Evie to a more anorexic character.
I have Adele in mind as Evie when I was reading the novel and that just makes me feel for the protagonist and much to care for her as I feel for Adele's songs.
Anne Tyler makes you care so much for her characters enough to make you look for her other works.
Anne Tyler's novels are always so good at capturing characters, better than any other author I can think of. You are swept along as the reader, empathizing with people you really feel you understand, that feel absolutely real, even the minor characters or those that do things you'd never dream of doing, like Evie here. Lovely book.
This kept gnawing at me.. I feel like I have experienced this minus the self-mutilation. The movie made the feeling worse.. which meant it was a good adaptation, imo. only thing is she still got the guy.. i didn't, which as time grows on.. is eventually a good thing.
I had to read this book for my MFA program to compare and contrast with a newer young adult novel.
That things that happen within the novel could actually happen and the father or friend in the book wouldn't be concerned about the main character?
These things aren't okay.
What the hell are you doing with your life." I'm chalking it up to the idea that I needed to be alive in the 70s for it to seem okay in my mind.
But I truly just wanted to take the main character under my wing and really help sort out her life.
It's not one of the better books I've read lately and had it not been so short, I wouldn't have even finished it.
There just wasn't enough going on to hold my attention...Maybe the remake of the movie (in theaters mid-May) will be better but the book didn't make me want to see it at all.
Interesting that the characters aren't teens in the movie as they are in the book (Evie - 17, Drum - 19).
Not sure why they changed the characters from teens to adults.
I guess I could watch the movie to see why, but then I'd have to endure this story again...
I love Anne Tyler.
But this book was hard for me to read..
I constantly stopped reading to rant about the main character's decisions and her refusal to stand up for herself.
I had to force myself to keep reading.
It wasn't until the end that I realized that the whole book was SUPPOSED to be grueling..
But by the end, you realize that sometimes you put up with so much before you finally realize what you really want.
I would never read this book again, but the literary technique was different than what I've ever read before, and that intrigued me.
I loved this strange and bittersweet little book. More intimate and quiet than some of Anne Tyler's other family novels. I just love her ability to get into the heads of her characters: lending complexity to the type of quiet people one might not give a second thought.
This book was just kind of strange. A very odd and hard to believe storyline saved only by the fact that the writing is lush and beautiful. Left me wondering what it was there to speak about - credible and well thought our characters but not so credible storyline flow
Beautifully written but focusing on a terribly sad bunch of people, who let life roll over them. Had it been a longer book I would probably not have finished it as I wanted to shake all of the characters. I didn't like a single one of them.
As always, Tyler's characters are rich, intense and interesting. As always, it features a uniquely original plot I could never have thought up of. Great book, great writing - yet not my favourite of Tyler's books.
Well drawn characters and a great story.
Unusual for Anne Tyler as the lead characters are very young, and expertly done. I truly enjoyed this.
I’ve read and enjoyed several of her other books, but this one was just a little too weird for me.
My go to novel when I don't have a new book to read. This story brings me back to being a teenager.
So, even though it looked like Anne Tyler was a bad writer, it was pretty short, so I got it.A pretty stupid reason to get a book, so it should come to no surprise to you that it was pretty stupid.
That was really cool-even if no one in the book got it, even the main girl character, I did.The other cool thing was that the book really surprised me all the time.
So, the points that this book *does* get are for the guy character and the surprising elements.**(And I'm totally excited to see Guy Pearce play that sexy looser!)
I was intrigued by the synopsis as I, like all teenage girls, used to have crushes on musicians and fantasise about them falling in love with me.
Maybe this is an issue with books with less than 150 pages, but I just didn't feel like I knew Evie.
Casey was an arrogant and aggravating character to begin with, but by the end of the book he appeared to have grown more than Evie, and had more common sense than her.
I'd recommend reading this if you want to find out what her earlier novels are like, as this was an intriguing novel and definitely not a waste of time, but I am glad that I didn't buy it new.
This is the first book of Anne Tyler that I have read.
I don't want to be to over critical b/c I have read worst work.
It is center around a young chunky awkward girl named Evie Decker falls madly inlove with this small town rocker Drumstring Casey from the moment she heard & saw him.
Evie literally does anything just to help Drum to further his singing career.
I just stop from here before I spoil it for anyone who might want to read it.
As for the book I can't see I would go out of my way to recommend A Slipping Down Life.
But if you are totalling interested in reading it?
A couple of seemingly normal but slightly off characters connect, one does a strange -- but not criminal -- act, and the plot continues from there.
The characters come from the unremarkable middle or lower-middle class and live in ordinary circumstances.
Subsidiary characters are ordinary as well.
Like all of Tyler's subsequent stories, the plot here moves at a slight tangent to the normal course of life.
The ending is quiet but sad, without any clear implications for the main character's later life.
It is as though Tyler is rehearsing her moves for her later, larger novels.
The book tackles a lot of issues - daily grind of high school, passion for music, crushes, even marriage - but has a strange lack of emotion throughout.
The reader is never invited in to Evie Decker's mind, so what she thinks and feels remains unknown.
This bothered me for a lot of the book; at the same time, the story itself was pulling me in.
Still, there is no passion expressed for neither Casey nor the music he plays.
It might not be a book that will tug on your heartstrings and make you feel understood by the narrator, but it's incredibly entertaining and well-done.
