https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263341.Aspects_of_the_Novel
They said to me "Do you do Twitter?"I said no, I have Goodreads.They said "What about Facebook?"I said no, I have Goodreads - this is funny, someone said it should be called Bookface.They didn't get that.They said "Do you have a blog?"I said well, no, I do Goodreads.They looked at each other, and then they said "We heard you don't even have a mobile phone."I said yeah, you heard right.They said "Don't tell us, you have Goodreads."I said "Now you're making fun of me."They said "Huh, we don't need to."They said "This Goodreads, it's for like book reviews?
Towards a Poetics of The Novel Here is a nice pseudo-scholarly jaunt through what 'aspects' go towards the creation of the Novel-form. Forster isolates a few of these aspects and discusses them, but the the 'rhythm' of the lectures, to use his own terminology, is one of insufficiency. It is as if Forster knows that the framework would collapse ever so easily with the slightest departure from his selected story-line or plot-structure or lecture-structure.As I said, there is much jauntiness here,
And thus on all of subsequent literary criticism as well!Now, by delineating the difference between Drama and the Novel, Forster is telling us that all these strict frameworks and critical apparatus is best suited only for the Dramatic form of story-telling, as A originally intended them to be used, where Beauty can come on stage and cover up for the deficiencies and sacrifices caused from this limited perspective of life-in-fullness.The Novel on the other hand is a more organic form and is much more suited to real life.
In his “introductory” he makes this statement, “The final test of a novel (is) our affection for it.” He proposes to discuss several aspects of the novel.The most common denominator of all novels is this: the novel tells a story.
And first Forster draws a distinction between history and fiction in the sense that history can only describe external phenomena of the actors, trying to infer feelings and motivations from these observations, whereas the novelist can, if he or she chooses, not only know but also create the actors’ thoughts and feelings.
Neither need be explicate in the novel, but to some extent they are usually present.Finally, Forster pattern and rhythm in the novel, and how they foster the novelist’s goal of opening the reader’s sensibilities.
فورستر بهطور خاص درباره رمان و این قالب خاص صحبت نمیکنه. بیشتر داره تعدادی از رمانها رو براساس چند ویژگی که خودش درنظر گرفته بررسی میکنه. چیزهایی میشه ازش گرفت اما اندک.
فورستر به‌طور خاص درباره رمان و این قالب خاص صحبت نمی‌کنه. بیش‌تر داره تعدادی از رمان‌ها رو براساس چند ویژگی که خودش درنظر گرفته بررسی می‌کنه. چیزهایی می‌شه ازش گرفت اما اندک.
Rating: 5* of fiveOne of the best books I've read about writing novels. A truly inspirational guide to a complex and daunting effort. It is scary enough to make the decision to write a novel. To face the prospect without a reliable guide? UNTHINKABLE!!
As much as I absolutely love some of Forster’s novels, there was something about this book which failed to reach me entirely.
His is a hazy, dreamy, yet astute perception of the art of the novel, and he doesn’t hesitate – along the way – to pass judgment on some of the grandest names of his trade, including Scott, Dickens and James, which was rather entertaining, certainly illuminating.He employs a majestic ‘we’, which rather irritated me sometimes, signaling some kind of collusion when saying ‘we all consider this novel so and so.’ The overall tone is quaint, yet casual, witty but opinionated, and I would have loved being in attendance when he gave these lectures, and being the annoying person in the audience who asked all the stupid questions (‘So are you really saying that James’s characters are dead?’ would perhaps be what I’d start out with).
I enjoyed it to some extent, especially the laugh-out-loud moments where he points out how utterly ridiculous a plot is, or quotes a parody of Henry James by H G Wells. But many of the books of which he speaks are ones I have never even heard of and so I must confess that there were times when he lost me and I would rather have been elsewhere.
A lot of the books that he refers to I’ve never read and probably never will (Les Faux Monnayeurs, not so much interested in), but he usually includes enough detail of the story or character that you get his point.The tone is pretty casual, which makes it an easy read and while the aspects he covers are very basic - the story, the plot, what makes a character flat or round - it was compelling enough to keep me reading.I particularly liked the last couple chapters.
I found Forster’s book very exciting and it stimulated me to the point where I began reading more widely and finally became an English major.Well, time has passed since then and my views have moderated somewhat though I still think this is a book anyone interested in the novel should look through at last once.The first two chapters are quite engaging and help explain why these lectures were such a public success.
In fact, Dickens is capable of using a highly sophisticated narrative approach—as in "Bleak House."A great deal of work has been done on this topic since the time of Forster and you can download a free twenty-page Chicago Short by Wayne Booth entitled “What Every Novelist Needs To Know About Narrators”.https://www.amazon.co.uk/Every-Novel....Chapter Five “The Plot” is more successful.
In fact, his criticism for the two other contemporary works: Craft of Fiction and Art of Novel ('Yes, but which novel?,' he asks) in the appendix amused me most.
These are extremely valuable lectures for a writer of fiction like me who wants to keep his readers hooked.Even though there is a lot learned as a writer and a critic/reader from this book, I have awarded it only three stars for two main reasons:1.
Even if you take the time element out, these two lectures still remain vague, and neither readers nor literary critics benefit from them.
Bundan neredeyse 100 yıl önce yazılmış bir kitabın bizim romanlara bakış açımızı değiştirmesi çok zor bir iş zaten, bu yüzden Forster'a kızamayız tabii, lakin yine de kitabı okuyacak olanların bu konuda beklentisini doğru ayarlaması önemli.Kitapta ne bulabilirsiniz?Benim kitaptan çıkardığım en çarpıcı sonuç, Forster'ın haksız düştüğü durumlara bakarak oldu.
Forster sık sık "Eh, aklı başında kimse şöyle roman yazmaz herhalde," diyor, ama bu söylediklerinin üstünden geçen yaklaşık 100 yılda "Öyle roman yazılmaz," dediği her şekilde gayet iyi romanlar yazılmış.
Yazarların zamansız bir odada yan yana oturup romanlarını yazdığı fikri romantik olsa da daha çok bunu bir yazarın avuntusu olarak okudum.
Sanat yan yana ilerleyen bir şey değil, ileri doğru gelişen bir şeydir.
there are about 5 chapters; each chapter contains a certain aspect:1 story2 people (A&B)3 plot4 fantasy & prophecy 5 pattern & rhythm I'm about to demonstrate the general idea in each of them: STORY: the story is a narrative of events arranged in time sequence.
whereas round characters are the ones who are surprising in a convincing way.Characters ask us: '' to whom it happened''PLOT:The plot is a narrative of events that emphasis.
It asks us:'' Why it happened''.Mystery is essential in the plot,and it needs intelligence.
Plot appeals to intelligence.FANTASY:Fantasy asks us:'' to pay something extra''.
Like many exponents of "literary" fiction, Forster has no appreciation for the craft, difficulty, or art of story.
Consider this ridiculous observation:"Curiosity is one of the lowest of the human faculties.
It is difficult to be friends with such a man, and for two inquisitive people to be friends must be impossible.
Curiosity by itself takes us very little way, nor does it take us far into the novel — only as far as the story."Although this comes from the chapter on plot, the chapter on story basically paints those who crave story as primitive, simian louts.
There is not much to be said about this book apart from the fact that it is a pillar in the field of literary criticism.
One will surely learn many valuable things about the craft of fiction thanks to Forster's witty and straightforward style which, unfortunately, did not remain consistent near the end of the book.I had the impression that Forster's choice of certain works to illustrate his opinions was made out of personal taste and stance towards a few of his contemporaries.
فک میکنم واسه زمان خودش خوب بوده. خیلی هم مجمل و خلاصهس؛ نصف ِ بیشترش مثال و تحلیل آثار موفّق دیگهس. درسته که گاهی باید از مثال استفاده کرد. ولی نه اینکه نصف بیشتر کتاب، همینمثالها باشن. تازه، من خیلیاشونو نخونده بودم و صرف ِ تحلیل ِ مولّف، نمیتونستم باهاش همراهی کنم. شاید نکاتش بهزور چل صفحه هم بشن.
فک می‌کنم واسه زمان خودش خوب بوده. خیلی هم مجمل و خلاصه‌س؛ نصف ِ بیشترش مثال و تحلیل آثار موفّق دیگه‌س. درسته که گاهی باید از مثال استفاده کرد. ولی نه این‌که نصف بیشتر کتاب، همین‌مثال‌ها باشن. تازه‌، من خیلیاشونو نخونده بودم و صرف ِ تحلیل ِ مولّف، نمی‌تونستم باهاش همراهی کنم. شاید نکاتش به‌زور چل صفحه هم بشن.
Herrliche Analyse des anglo-amerikanischen Kanons vom 18. Jahrhundert bis Ulysses (+Dostojewski, Tolstoj, Gide, Proust) mit zahlreichen trefflichen Bonmots. Aber zwischen den etlichen bemerkenswerten Sprüchen zum Einrahmen gibt es auch allerlei Seichtigkeiten oder Kamingeplauder.
Forster limits his study to about a dozen novels and their authors: The Brothers Karamazov, Moby Dick, Ulysses, Wuthering Heights, Madame Bovary, Moll Flanders, Emma, Tristram Shandy, The White Peacock, War and Peace, Bleak House and the Ambassadors.
He breaks his areas of study into Story, Plot, People, Fantasy, Prophesy, Pattern and Rhythm.
“The artist aims for the truth, and succeeds if he raises emotions.” “A novel must end with at least one living character.”The Appendix section at the end of this book is well worth reading for it contains the frank thoughts and opinions of Forster on the same books that he read in preparation for the lectures.
I found it interesting, and Forster's casual style (since he was speaking rather than writing) and self-awareness of the slipperiness of the subject causing his inability to really grasp it in a masterful way made it a refreshing read despite the 90 years between him saying these things and me reading them.That said, I think it was a bit muddled and I think sometimes he assumed more than he should've.
Foster tells us that words like 'of course,' 'curiously enough,' and 'so to speak,' have been left where each appeared which may distress the sensitive reader, but asks the reader to remember that 'if these words were removed others, perhaps more distinguished, might escape through the orifices they left, and that since the novel is itself often colloquial it may possibly withhold some of its secrets from the graver and grander streams of criticism, and may reveal them to backwaters and shallows.' Foster lets us know at once how he will approach the Clark lecture series: with humanness and humor.
This collection of lectures Forster gave at Cambridge Univ in 1927 is published in book form and provides a decent look at how a novelist of some critical acclaim a century ago viewed the Aspects of the Novel, both from a reader's and a writer's perspective.Forster defines the novel as "any fictitious prose work over 50,000 words." The seven aspects he discusses are story, people, plot, fantasy, prophecy, pattern, and rhythm.
For that purpose, I'd recommend it.
Reading this book you get the sense that E.M. Forster is a bit of an opinionated prick.
The saving grace here is that he definitely has the skills to back up being an opinionated prick.
But I found the book useless as a guide to writing or as a portal into the mind of the writer or the mechanics of good writing, unless you want to write like E.M. Forster.
The book doesn't do a very good job of explaining how E.M. became a good writer either.
Politely sarcastic, I would call this.
Lots of enlightening truths about writing a novel mixed in with quiet jabs at societal conventions blown up in novels to startling proportions, like eating, for example, and the fact that most novels end in death or marriage, all of this illustrated with examples from English novels of the last two centuries, with a mention of some French and some Russian giants like Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky.
In that way, it's a limited but quite accurate view on what a novel is, but unless you've read the classics being discussed here, most of the findings will fall on your deaf ears.
If nothing else, read the part about the plot, it's worth it.
An avowed classic on literary craft which somehow did not resonate with me. Due for a re-read.
Review: http://abt.cm/1LUrpMe
Aspects of the Novel by E.M. Forster is not a how-to-write book.
The point of the book is to discuss what makes a good fiction novel work.
Sorry, Ms. Le Guin!Forster breaks down the novel into its various parts: Story, People, Plot, Fantasy, Prophecy, and Pattern/Rhythm.
plot, flat characters usefulness as supporting characters, and what makes an excellent round character.As a fantasy fiction writer, I was curious about his sections on Fantasy and Prophecy.
Prophecy asks for humility and a suspension of the sense of humor because it makes us feel and sense beyond what can be articulated.His chapter on prophecy seemed especially pertinent to Christian fiction writers.
This is an essential and fun read for anyone interested in how contemporary books tick.‘If you ask one man, "What does a novel do?" he will reply placidly: "Well—I don't know—it seems a funny sort of question to ask—a novel’s a novel—well, I don’t know—I suppose it kind of tells a story, so to speak.” He is quite good-tempered and vague, probably driving a motor-bus at the same time and paying no more attention to literature than it merits.
And I like a story to be a story, mind, and my wife’s the same.” And a third man he says in a sort of drooping, regretful voice, “Yes—oh, dear, yes—the novel tells a story.” I respect and admire the first speaker.
did I actually finish all of this? no. (*but I did read some chapters!) am I gonna act like I did to help out my Goodreads challenge? yes
It's been a while since I dove into any literary criticism, but I saw this and it took my fancy.
His unusual take on the novel includes disregarding period and chronological context.
He treats all novels and all authors as if they are sitting in the room at the same time.
This means he freely compares the great novels of the 18th century with Austen, Bronte and Dickens while also referencing Ulysses by James Joyce which had been published in Paris in 1922 but was unavailable at that time either in the UK or the US.He's great on the different ways novels are put together and merciless on Henry James.
While I suppose it was worthwhile to read the various opinions of E.M. Forster on the old great authors of English literature, I don't really feel that he had very much unique to say about the actual aspects of novel writing.I think that the most unique, interesting statement in the entire book was in the introduction at Ch 1.
Ch 6 & 7 (Fantasy and Prophecy): I'm still not entirely certain what he was trying to express here.
Il romanzo è innanzitutto un racconto, il racconto di una storia, in cui in cui l'autore, che è l'unico creatore della storia, può decidere o meno se seguire un filo cronologico (come necessariamente avviene nella vita reale) ma ha l'obbligo di dare credibilità agli attori e alle vicende che mette sulla scena, se vuole che queste colpiscano l'interesse del lettore, fruitore ultimo dell'opera d'arte.
Gli attori sono, per Forster, le persone e, poiché il loro creatore è a sua volta umano, esiste nella Letteratura una relazione così intima tra il romanziere e il soggetto da egli creato da non essere riscontrabile in nessuna altra forma d'arte.
