https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/505304.The_Poky_Little_Puppy
Mom's note:Bella enjoyed reading this book, but couldn't give it 5 stars because of inaccuracies that she couldn't forgive. First one was that strawberries "don't just grow in the grass by themselves," which is true enough. Her second sticking point came after the puppies' mom made them chocolate custard, and my daughter, having been raised in a houseful of dogs her whole life, said, "Those puppies are going to be DEAD after they eat that chocolate."I love this kid.
5 ADORABLE ★'sThis book was so stinking adorable. I love the illustrations, they are so amazing. It sure was a favorite of mine when I was a kid. Definitely a good one to read. I love sharing all my favorites with my little niece's :) The Poky Little Puppy is one that's really enjoyable to read over and over.
This is a Grandma Book.If you are someone's Nana, it is perfectly acceptable for you to force your grandchildren to listen to this inane story. Unless, perhaps, you want your grandkids to actually like you.If so, you need to reconsider this classic.It's awful. It reads like a Dick and Jane book...minus all the exciting parts that Dick and Jane books are so famous for.The only way a kid would willingly sit through this is if they are eitherA) Too young to crawl awayOrB) Have only been allowed to watch PBSThe dog is slow and Pokey.The End.
There's a twist here, though!The worldbuilding was pretty fantastic, with a god-like creature that keeps sending signs to all the anthropomorphic creatures that romp about, giving and taking away favours all willy-nilly, almost as if it was attempting to teach all the characters a very important lesson.I honestly thought the message was taking over the story a bit too much, though, and the clarity of the story made me question my own value system.
Finally, it's a YA novel that changed my life!I will Never, Ever dig holes under the fence, EVER AGAIN.At least there are no sparkly vampires, so I didn't get TOO scared.
Plus, I didn't like any of those deserts.
And the wild, wild world scares me.Maybe this book is too racy for me.
The book is a cute as ever. Still a classic. Preschool age.
A disturbing tale about bestiality. Just kidding.
I remember this being one of my  favorite  books that I read when I was a kid!! :)
When The Poky Little Puppy was published in 1942, World War II had been raging for several years, and after knocking at America's door, had finally entered.
The worst thing that happened in The Poky Little Puppy was some holes under the fence and getting sent to bed without any dessert.
Because in this world today, with war and terrorism and pollution and global warming, it's a much needed escape into a soft colored world in which the worst thing that can possibly happen is a hole under the fence - that can be stopped by a big sign.
Tonight this was a reread for my niece. Still cute as ever. Preschool age.
This is a cute, fun read for young-readers! Also an inspiration to a short story I just finished writing for And So The Adventures Begin, for children! :)
This was one of the books that sparked my love of reading...I've recommended it and given it as a gift countless times.
This might be the bestselling picture book of all time, but I think it's starting to show its age.
It might be sacrilege to even suggest, but I think it could use some updates.I have no issue with the pictures (which are cute) or the basic story (which is repetitive, but fairly entertaining).
That's a dangerous idea to be giving little kids, as chocolate is toxic to dogs.
It's fun to read as an adult for nostalgia, but I'd be very hesitant to give it to a child without sitting down and explaining that it's very dangerous to give Fido chocolate.
Another from the pile that Neo had to take the lead reading.
The basic story tells of how five little puppies are making their way from home and finding mischief, particularly the slowest (poky) puppy of all.
Where they come upon a strawberry, all five realize that food awaits them at home, so they rush home, again taking the journey up, over, and through things.
By the end, that darned poky puppy is still lagging behind.
Neo did well with this story, though we are still perfecting the best way to have him read.
Phonetics will be the major hurdle, but Neo knows how to power through.
In short, everything you need for the creepy-crawlie portions of an Indiana Jones movie are espied by the poky little puppy's four brothers and sisters.What I like best about the book are the morals:1) Misbehavior and sloth will net you a win two out of three times, and a neutral on the third.2) Misbehavior and promptness will get you punishment two out of three times, but throwing your slow brother under the bus to your bitch of a mother who has her own eccentric sense of favoritism on the third will net you a prize.No, really.
As a reward for good behavior in the grocery store, they allowed me to pick out a Little Golden Book or coloring book instead of a candy bar.
The books were almost the same price as the candy, but my parents knew I'd enjoy the book longer.
These books are the reason I love reading.
My children have a huge collection of Little Golden Books and each of them have their own copy of The Pokey Little Puppy.
My mother gave me her copy from her childhood (one of the original versions) that I hope to pass down to them someday.
The 4 faster puppies get caught disobeying their mother and don't get dessert, while the Poky Puppy sneaks in and eats it all (?) after everyone goes to bed.
First of all, dog mom is obviously a terrible mother what with letting her puppies wander around with no supervision.
Thirdly, I don't ever punish/reward my kid with food so I find the whole "bed without dessert" thing obnoxious.We bought this in a boxed set and I kind of wish we hadn't.
I read about half the text, so that the story becomes a heartwarming tale of 5 puppies who go on walks and eat dessert before bed.
Awwwwwww... I just saw this book in the pile of books ready for giving out at the hospital!! Classic!
A classic! If you know what a little golden book is, then you'll definately know this one. Colourful drawings and cute puppies having adventures.
Read this about a thousand times & counting...
I bought this book for my nephew for Christmas because I had the Poky Little Puppy when I was small. Maybe I am looking at it through nostalgia goggles but it is still a charming little book.
(Possible spoilers, but how are you going to know if it's worth reading?) Because it's about dogs, irrepressible wanderlust, the futility of putting up signs for creatures who can't read, counting (addition and subtraction), up and down, back and forth, creepy-crawly things, colors, expanding your horizons, finding your way home, misbehavior and its consequences, gluttony, just desserts (pun intended), mother love and - ultimately - atonement, forgiveness and redemption.
Read it to your children, read it to your own true love.
This is a fun book to read to little ones.
There is a pattern to the book (puppies dig a hole, wait for the puppy, get in trouble for digging, repeat) so little ones can easily predict what is going to happen next and they can discuss the pattern.
All of poky puppy's siblings are in a hurry to get far away from their home, but poky puppy takes his time.
Teachers can talk about if his siblings made good choices or bad choices and why.
Teachers can also ask if poky puppy made good choices or bad choices.
Great read all around. Though I am confused as to why they show every freakin' animal that's climbing up and down that hill, except for the spider. Why leave out the spider? Mostly I'm grateful for the recession-friendly desserts the book suggests. "Can we have rice pudding Mama?" "Can we have tapioca Mama?" "Can we have chocolate custard?" At 79 cents a box, yes you can my little lovelies!
I don't really understand the moral of this story. Be poky? Don't be poky? Sometimes disobedience has its rewards, sometimes it doesn't? Either way, it's not the most captivating, but the illustrations are cute.
love reading this book to my little guy!
I have to read this to my sister so much.AND IT IS SO FRIFFIN LONG AND REPETITIVE.
I would give this book 10 stars if I possibly could. It was my very favorite childhood story. I had it memorized by the time I was six, performed it as a dramatic reading for elementary school children when I was in high school and read it to each of my own children until they had it memorized as well. Now it sits on my bookshelf beloved and ragged waiting for the next generation.
When I was a toddler/preschooler, I wanted to be the poky little puppy. I had poky little puppy pajamas, and got all the kids at daycare to play poky little puppy with me. This mostly involved getting down on our hands and knees and eating snow (it was winter in Minnesota, what can I say?).
A favorite from way back when.
One of my absolute favorite as a kid.
