https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4010.The_First_Forty_Nine_Stories
If you read only one book by Ernest Hemingway, by all means read this one.
These are all short stories, and some of them are only a few sentences long, while others are like short novellas.
The most famous stories in this collection are classics like "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber," "Snows of Kilomanjaro," "A Clean Well-Lighted Place," "The Undefeated," and "Fifty Grand." These stories date from Hemingway's celebrity period when he traveled the world hunting big game and making love to beautiful women.
I read many of Hemingway stories from this edition. And then he becomes one of my favorites.
Probabil aceste povestiri arata cel mai bine cine a fost Hemingway. Fiecare pare ca poarta macar o mica urma autobiografica, desi poate nu asta a fost intentia autorului.Unele povestiri par usor misogine pe alocuri ceea ce se subscrie si mai mult biografiei autorului, dar i-am trecut cu vederea acest mic “defect”.Ele mi-au dat imboldul sa mai incerc totusi sa citesc un roman de-al lui Ernest Hemingway.
I've read this book before and I'm reading it again. Hemingway writes exceptional short stories. There are some Nick Adams Stories I've enjoyed. Also there is "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber." It's one of my favorite Hemingway short story. The story is very macho and is about hunting big game. Both subjects are very much out of fashion but I like the story anyway.
I think these stories tell more about who Hemingway was than any other book I’ve read of his. The deaths, assaults, fights, religion, and heartbreak reveal a lot about how he thought about life.
Aber ich mag das - vor ein paar Jahren konnte ich mit seinem Stil sehr wenig angefangen, aber irgendwann hat es dann klick gemacht.
Jetzt mag ich seine klaren Sätze.
Entweder war er nie da oder jemand hat ihn schon vor mir aus dem öffentlichen Bücherregal bei der Plasmaspende genommen.
Im Buchladen sah ich diese schon oft als Einzelversion liegen - ein paar Seiten und nur 6 Geschichten in einem potthässlichen Paperback.
Ich mag meine alten, vergilbten und lädierten Editionen.
Die sind alle viel gelesen - was für mich heißt, dass jemand sie mal genau so geliebt hat wie ich.
Typical Hemingway.
very varied quality in the short stories. some were hard to understand. some were 2 stars, some were 5. my favorites were the short happy life of Francis macomber, hills like white elephants, banal story, and now I lay me
A good introduction to the craft of Ernest Hemingway since, as is known among American readers, the short story was one of his big strengths.
Every bit of dialogue or description of somebody fishing seemed to sound like a repeat, and I sometimes had to wait a month to start the next story so as to process the merit of each story individually.
Still, the best short stories are really good (though Hills Like White Elephants was a bit of a disappointment in my opinion) and for writers out there interested in pursuing the short story, this book is a must.
Got this mainly for the boxing story "Fifty Grand", which was excellent. Unfortunately I'm not a fan of the 'nothing happens' variety of short story that make up 90% of this book. Sure, Hemingway's spare prose might be good, but when it services inconsequential tales filled with faint characters, there's just not much to enjoy.
This was Hemingway as a young writer, trying things and succeeding very well. As usual, he can touch a truly human experience in very few words. Most of the people in this collection are not spoiled brats, he was still writing about people he met on the way up.
Everyone should read "Hills Like White Elephants."
His writing style, terseness, adventurism, vices, and cynicism are all characteristics I've identified with, and better understood by experiencing them through his work.This collection includes every short story he published in his lifetime.
Ultimately, this book is worth a buy for anyone who either enjoys Hemingway's work, or great short story collections.My favorite stories in this collection:The Short Happy Life of Francis MacomberThe Snows of KilimanjaroUp in MichiganThe End of SomethingA Very Short StoryThe UndefeatedIn Another CountryHills Like White ElephantsFifty GrandBanal StoryThe Light of the WorldThe Sea ChangeFathers and Sons
Însă, în cazul volumului de față, ceva n-a prea mers de cinci stele în cazul meu.
Problema e că bună parte din cele scurte au finaluri telegrafiate, din care nu înțelegi mare lucru.
Par mai curând un fel de schițe, studii dintr-o după masă de vară pentru o lucrare mai amplă care va să vină.Scriitura îmi amintește de stilul jurnalistic.
Poate că la vremea lor au fost bine primite, însă în zilele noastre sunt convinsă că bună parte din prozele scurte-scurte, dacă ar fi trimise spre publicare către o redacție, cred că ar fi refuzate.
Pare pur și simplu o scenă decupată dintr-o altă lucrare mai mare.
There are some really good stories in it, some that may mention, like "Fifty Grand" and some that are not, for me "Old Man at the Bridge".
I really enjoy Hemingway's "there's not a proper plot" type of stories, like Old Man at the Sea, but there are a bit too many of those here and when compared to that one, these really don't have a plot.
I feel like one should pick this up and look before hand what stories are worth reading for.
But I feel like there were more misses, at least for me, than hits - no matter how good the best stories are
Took my time with this collection and it got better with time. The last few stories of this collection are works of genius and of such beauty that I found myself getting all misty-eyed at points. In this collection it became clear to me that Hemingway is probably the greatest writer of prose because he tried to write every kind of story possible. The good ones and the bad ones. The ugly ones and the beautiful ones. Especially the beautiful ones, which he wrote beautifully. A must read for anyone who loves to read.
Was okay! Not sure what Ernest is known for? Just know he is a famous author.In some stories... I engaged with his writing style.Some stories bored me.But glad I got through this. Books should not be left unread... ;)I learnt some things from his writing.And I like the idea of short stories.The cool thing is that I left this book at one of the huts on the Tsitsikamma Hiking Trail. Maybe a weary hiker finds some inspirtation from those pages.
Not my cup of tea generally since the machismo level is a bit high. But it's interessting to see him learn as an author. The first few stories of this anthology are the best (especially "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"), but they're chronologically the latest of the batch. Nevertheless, way to much bullfighters, soldiers and hunters for my taste.But I really liked his "The Old Man and the Sea", so I'll probably give him another try sooner or later.
This is a fantastic collection of short stories. Hemingway’s love of nature is evident throughout the collection. Themes of war and death are also prominent. I based my dissertation around this book as it incorporates Hemingway’s minimalism at its best; Less is more. This collection also demonstrates the uniqueness of silence. What is left unsaid, takes on a deeper meaning.
Mostly included to cover the longer stories included here but not in the three smaller collections. You probably don't need to be told this, but Hemingway's effect on modern fiction cannot be understated. He brings a strange, flickering beauty to the horribly ugly things in the world--bullfighting, violence, drink, hate, despair.
It has so powerful stories —The Snow of Kilimanjaro, The Capital of the World, The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber— but inevitably there are histories more modest that for they me are the real revelation of the genius of Hemingway.
I carried this book around the world and it was often my entertainment. I’ve gone back and reread the short stories to try and grab back that emotional place many times.
Luin ensimmäiset 100 sivua. En oikein päässyt kiinni kirjasta.
I have been reading his First Forty-Nine Stories on and off for a while now, a couple at a time.
These are stories where you get out what you put in.A perfect example is 'A Simple Enquiry'.
The servant leaves awkward and flushed.Obviously there are undertones and the 'simple' enquiry is anything but.
He never tells us all as many other and lesser writers would.The same qualities can be seen in 'A Clean, Well-Lighted Place', one of Hemingway's favourites among his own stories.
Here it underplayed and all the more powerful for that.Read these stories one or two at a time.
Someone recommended this book as "if you are to ever read anything by Hemingway, make it this one".
Much of the writing is primitive, built on Hemingway's reflexes as a reporter: a thrifty style aiming for short and concise sentences in order to convey the greatest clarity with the least amount of printable characters.
When you have to rewind because a description gave you pause, you are not experiencing polished brevity, gems of storytelling and the like - you just suffer bad writing.There are a few parts which stuck in my mind and may encourage me to seek his greater novels.
But overall, many of the stories in this book are too short to mean anything, they're just exercises.
This book is a collection of the first forty stories by Ernest Hemingway.
Some of these short stories convey a critical and powerful message or a moral to the audience, and on the other hand, some stories satires the social environment and people's attitudes.
Overall, I liked the book because the messages that the stories show also apply to these modern days.
For example, one of his stories talks about how people continues to go towards the money, even though a person is drowning right next to them.
Also the fact that the book is a collection of short stories, I found it interesting because every each story presents unique and different ideas.
I took a long time reading through this one, studying Hemingway's style.
Not only did I learn a great deal about POV, the heart of a story, and methods of characterization, but the collection also inspired me with the great possibilities a short story has to offer.
I've been indoctrinated into the classic New Yorker short story to such a degree that it was unsettling (in a good way) to read new ways of conceiving the form.
Those formal potentialities coupled with the depth of emotion Hemingway brought to the page (sadly not featured by the many broadly drawn characterizations of the man we have today) comprised a masterclass in prose writing and language artistry.
The foreword alone sums up Hemingway better than most biographers.
A man showcasing the best and worst of his early work, and describing the goal for writing more "good stories" because "I know a few".Some are sparse, some are rambling, some are a mess.
Some are an exercise in setting, some in interaction.
All are the world around Hemingway as he moved through Spain and France in particular, with doses of Africa and beyond.
Fear, love, sweat, dirt, bravado, whisky.
Rip out the ones you hate, and cherish the ones that remind you that writing can be this raw.
It's hard to over estimate the influence and importance of Hemingway on modern english language writing.
This collection of short stories is a great way to dig into his style.
The subject matter is unfashionable in the extreme in today's world.
Big game hunting, excessive alcohol consumption and all kinds of macho behaviour and you know, it doesn't fucking matter.
The writing is superb.
The prose tight and sparse leaving acres of room for the imagination to work it's magic, assuming that is, you have an imagination.
Hemingway doesn't do that so be warned.

