https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582654.The_Glitter_and_the_Gold
This was a fascinating look at how the 1% lived at the turn of the twentieth century, including an interesting description of Winston Churchill as a young man.Consuelo Vanderbilt Balsan was the American born wife of the 9th Duke of Marlborough.
I do understand that they were a product of their times and some would say they didn't know any better, but at the same time, this environment produced the energy, brilliance and ambition of Winston Churchill and a dedication to duty and charity in Consuelo Vanderbilt Balsan.
Dare I say that their American blood had something to do with it?
I'm a tad confused. In other books, I've read how absolutely miserable consuelo's marriage was, but there is no mud racking in this autobiography. Amazing how within a couple of generations spurned ex wives would so willingly spill their dirty laundry for all the works to read
Alas, I found none!Self absorbed, she pats herself on the back for dividing the food in the tins given to the poor.
Finally, when she agreed, she was whisked away to England to a life in Blenheim palace.Hobnobbing with little Winston Churchill and his mother, there are pages and pages about the families who snipped and sneered.There were way too many pages of who (royalty), when (always) and how (in high style) gliding their way throughout the glamours balls.I should have stopped reading at 50 pages, but after visiting New Port, RI often and touring the homes, I thought this book would be interested.Not recommended.
Consuelo Vanderbilt had an amazing life.
Even though she grew up in some of the most famous houses on Fifth Avenue, Newport (RI) and England, her childhood was a sad one.
She had the misfortune of having Alva Vanderbilt as her mother.
Alva was a strong, selfish and ruthless mother.
Consuelo disliked the big mansions -- especially Marble House (how could she?!!!) In the end, however, she was able to find true love with Jacques Balsan.
Even when describing terrible treatment, Vanderbilt-Balsan retains the understated tact of an aristocrat.
Granted, I have a particular interest in the history of the Vanderbilts and this is the fourth or fifth book I've read involving their legacy, so I was already familiar with some of what Mrs. Balsan relates here.
The Countess of Carnarvon's books on Highlclere Castle are great examples of this: much of the real (and very interesting) history of Highclere can be found in the plot of the tv show, but people find the books "boring" because they're not "juicy" enough.
My suggestion, for anyone truly interested in the history and culture of this period or this family, is to read "Alva and Consuelo Vanderbilt" first.
It is the autobiography of most of the life of a woman whose family is partial heirs to the Cornelius Vanderbilt fortune.
People like Churchill keep popping up at these gatherings.
Also, this is a woman who has a life others only dream about not because of her own talent but only because of her family.
She has no problem using her wealth to help flee the Nazis from France in the 1940's.
I truly hope that in the published edition in October they will have photos of the important people in her life.
I think I'd enjoy a third person biography of Consuelo Vanderbilt-- I get the sense that there's a lot more to the story than she herself presents it.
Fun for fans of the gilded age, but for the most part not too exciting: the frivolity of the London season is so tiring; weekend hunting parties at Blenheim palace are ever so tiring for the hostess; etc.
Then, in the last twenty pages, the story becomes completely and unexpectedly gripping as the author and her husband are trying to get out of the way of the Nazi invasion of France.
A decent read all in all, if a bit slack toward the middle.
More of a listing of people and events, but an interesting product of her time.
A beautiful story!
This is Consuelo Vanderbilt's memoir, the tale of her life in her own words.
Born in 1877, Consuelo was the great-granddaughter of Commodore Vanderbilt, the founding father of the wealth that made the family famous.
Consuelo accomplished significant social work through her connections and wealth and enjoyed a happy and loving second marriage as well as the company of family and friends, many of whom are famous and easily recognizable names.
I found Amanda Stuart's biography of Consuelo and her mother immensely more informative than this memoir.
This American Duchess whom I had never heard of, led an adventurous life .
This book by a Duchess heretofore unknown to me, is fraught with great historical moments, a good explanation of the customs and protocol of English nobility, and a reminder that things are not as they appear.
The author imparts her memoirs in such an intimate way, that the reader feels as if they are walking beside her, having the privilege of exclusive audience with the American Duchess.
PS--I think that fans of the Downtown Abbey series will particularly enjoy this book.
Consuelo Vanderbilt's memoir tells the story of a famed trans-Atlantic marriage where the wealthy bride was sold to the bidder with the best title, the 9th Duke of Marlborough.
The bride was famously locked in her room in the weeks before the wedding.
This is a fascinating look at the world of titled European families in the last years of the 19th century up to the beginning of WWII.
For those with money it seemed to be world of snobbery, ridgid hierarchy, obsessive attention to pointless details, and lives mostly lived to maintain the system.
She was too much a child of her time to tell tales, especially about herself and her family.
On PBS.org, Jessica Fellowes wrote about Downtown Abbey: "Americans may have picked up on the reference to the Marlboroughs –the marriage, or rather, divorce, between Consuelo Vanderbilt and the Duke of Marlborough.
You can read more in her her autobiography, The Glitter and the Gold – it is a gripping tale of an unhappy marriage in the Edwardian era." This prompted me to borrow The Glitter and the Gold from the library; I quickly learned how realistic the BBC series is about American and British aristocracy during the Gilded Age and after.
The book includes interesting photos, including a lavish family portrait by John Singer Sargent.http://www.jssgallery.org/Paintings/D...
I would have given this book 5 stars, but I found out while reading that it was ghost written, and not fully by the author. I was very impressed by the writing and the matter-of-fact descriptions of a sometimes depressing childhood and early marriage of an American heiress who becomes the Duchess of Marlborough, has her obligatory two male heirs and then finds true love with a Frenchman.The biography/memoir is beautifully written and my love for stories like Wharton's The Buccaneers makes me want to find this book for my own bookshelves.
A very interesting book. As a Downton Abbey fan, I found the real life goings on of Consuelo Vanderbilt very intriguing. I'm mystified that there weren't more beheadings. Actually I'm surprised that we aren't still beheading people today. The flagrant unfair distribution of the wealth and disregard for our fellow man is sickening no matter which century it occurs. Consuelo did a very good job of retelling her life. I'm impressed. This book gets an 8 on my 10 scale.
I won this book in a Goodreads First/Reads giveaway.I think I would enjoy a third person biography better. I get the sense that there is more to the story than what she herself presents. I also found the need to google her to read more about the people she was talking about since she tends to not use names. (i.e. “Marlborough” in place of “Charles”) But it is a good story and quite interesting for those interested in the gilded age.
Interesting story written in a most uninteresting way. Consuelo Vanderbilt had an amazing life: raised with unlimited money by an evil, social-climbing mother, married off when young to the Duke of Marlborough, living a life as duchess in a Downton-Abbey-style castle, traveling the world, later (finally) divorcing and going on to be a great philanthropist and women's rights activist. But not a writer, sadly. The book was a snore.
I read this book a couple of years ago after visiting Biltmore (Consuelo's uncle's home in North Carolina), but I wanted to revisit it after reading To Marry An English Lord and understanding more about the time period and society that Consuelo lived in. I found it even more fascinating the second time around! If you are interested in the Gilded Age and the British aristocracy at the turn of the last century, this is a treat.
Consuelo Vanderbilt never meant this to be a personal memoir, but a picture of a time and place. The result is a nearly endless recital of who showed up at which dinner party - name after name after name.There are a few interesting nuggets when she describes her early life, and the last chapter - when she's on the run from the Nazis in occupied France - is very interesting, but the rest of it is an interminable slog.
I can truly say this book has beaten me. It's a rare thing for me to completely give up halfway through a book but this one takes the cake. It has officially bored me to death.
It is hard to separate the quality of the writing from the person telling the story here ; Balsan is writing of an era and a sensibility that is far removed in time and experience from her readership.
There was no diminution in her personal wealth or even her status.
And the peasants worked the fields, and held up the progress of land purchases.
And that tone takes away from what this might have been - but I guess it tells how Consuela saw the world, and thought of it and valued it.
I really enjoyed it, although it ended up being more about Consuelo Vanderbilt's life as a philanthropist than about her privileged upbringing as a member of the Vanderbilt family.
I got interested in her story then, how her domineering mother married her off young to an English lord, and how her life wasn't her own.
Consuelo does not reveal a lot in this book about her inner life and how she managed to endure and overcome life's early tyranny over her.
But she did indeed overcome it, and became a caring and effective advocate for many people in need, particularly during World Wars I and II.
I read a lot of people complaining about the poor little rich girl mentality that often came across from the author, but...
At points Consuelo came across as positively upbeat about her lot in life, despite tales I've heard to the contrary.
I saw this book as a window into a way of life in a certain time period.
So, I guess people could complain about that but I found it enjoyable.
But I left feeling like I still didn't have the full tale, as if Consuelo was often holding back.
Although enjoyable to read about the parties and lifestyle of an American in Britain, where Consuelo's writing shone and the story flew was her wartime experiences in both world wars.
It was an odd, unique, gilded time in both America and Britain, those pre-war years, and I appreciate that she captured it so candidly.
Favorite quotes: "But in time I learned that snobbishness was an enthroned fetish which spreads its tentacles into every stratum of British national life.""It is strange that in so great a house there should not be one really livable room." "What could one do with these thousands of human beings, lost as they were in a whirlpool of terror and misery?
A rather unsatisfying autobiography of the woman who was forced (by her own mother) into a marriage to the Duke of Marlborough.
The mother, Alva Vanderbilt Belmont, has to be one of the most monstrous parents ever, yet there is very little here about her relationship with her daughter Consuelo who, of course, eventually separated from and then divorced the Duke to finally find happiness in a second marriage and philanthropic work.
We of course want to know more about the mother/daughter relationship but there is little about it--and a great deal about balls, gowns, jewels, who was there, etc.
Consuelo Vanderbilt Balsan had a really interesting and fascinating life, but for me, she is not the best at telling it.
There's also not a lot of context or background about the people that she meets - she just assumes that you know.
It's a bit like listening to your grandma telling you about her childhood and assuming that you know exactly who and what she's talking about.
I'd still like to know more about her life - and that of other American heiresses who married into the British Aristocracy in a similar era - but I'll read a biography instead.
She and others like her, brought the financial means to save many aristocratic estates in England, but struggled with the differences in societal norms between England and the U.S. While she lacked love, Consuelo did her best to use her position for good, and reports on both the internal and external society of the times, mentioning some of the famous people that she came in contact with over the years.
When her marriage became intolerable, she found a way to move forward and eventually found real love with Jacques Balsan.
Consuelo is my hero! The real-life Lady Cora (and then some), she lived the most fascinating life--from the overwhelming privilege of the "accident of her birth" into gilded age New York royalty, to a Duchess, to a crusader for women and children's rights, advocate, leader, philanthropist, and benefactor of hundreds of hospitalized children during the Nazi invasion of France. Her journey is extra captivating in her own vivid and beautifully-written words.
I bought the book after visiting Blenheim Palace and was fascinated by the history. Unfortunately, although it is a great story the style of the writing in the book was very poor. I felt it was more a book of who's who then an insight into her personal thoughts and life. The story just goes from one party to another with no real detail or perspective.
This is an interesting depiction of the life of the very rich at the start of the 20th Century. However, she is self righteous to the highest degree. The criticisms of anything she doesn't approve of get annoying. Many stories are told too fast and sound like a recital of facts rather than an interesting anecdote. I struggled to finish the book.
