https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3763.Live_and_Let_Die
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond gets educated in numismatics, anthropology, marine biology and voodoo, while the series gets formula.
She's (at the end) ordered to strip completely naked but at that moment the lights go out, Bond gets kidnapped and that's all we get about her.The only other black woman in the book is on a date with her boyfriend at a bar.
Not only because they're evil men, but because they're black.Big is keeping her prisoner because she's gorgeous, useful, and he wants to marry her (by force).She's also the character who uses the n-word most in this novel.It's also very interesting to notice the difference in Bond's treatment of Solitaire vs.
From the moment the BOAC Stratocruiser taxied up to the International Air Terminal at Idlewild, James Bond was treated like royalty.So begins Live and Let Die, the second novel by Ian Fleming.
"I'm tired of my game already."Aware that Mr. Big has men aboard the train, Bond and Solitaire slip off in Jacksonville and meet up with Felix Leiter in St. Petersburg.
Bond avenges his friend, then heads to Jamaica, where he trains for a deadly SCUBA mission to Mr. Big's island in Shark Bay.Live and Let Die is a delight as long as it stays off certain subjects, which it does about seventy-five percent of the time.
”He held the tip between finger and thumb and very deliberately started to bend it back, giggling inanely to himself.Bond rolled and heaved, trying to upset the chair, but Tee-Hee put his other hand on the chair-back and held it there.
He slipped it down her back until it came to the cleft at the base of her spine and he let it rest there, holding the centre of her body hard against him until they had kissed enough.She took her arms away from round his neck and pushed him away.‘I hoped I would one day kiss a man like that,’ she said.
We know Bond from the suave Sean Connery or Roger Moore and don’t think of him as racist, but I think Fleming's original Bond (and it comes through the narration) pretty much doesn’t fully respect black folks as human beings.
Big is described as a possibly great Black Criminal, and not described in particular racist ways, I think (hey, he has a Big Library, and speaks English as well as a white Brit, we are told!);3)	Solitaire is a worthy Bond “girl” in that, though she doesn’t really possess many spy-worthy skills, her voodoo/psychic skills are interesting, and the virgin angle is pretty amusing in a spy thriller (and okay, sexist) way;4)	The final scenes on the boat are evidence that Fleming is a masterful writer of “thrilling” spy action, as he confronts Mr. Big.
...or more likely Octopussy......but I want to say Live and Let Die......may have been the first James Bond movie I ever saw.
As an adult my fervor wore away, but remnants of that love never left me and eventually I became intrigued enough to check out the novels out of a curiosity to see how true the movies were to the books.
After taking a beating from operatives of SMERSH, a Soviet counterintelligence agency of Fleming's making, Bond is set on a bit of revenge.
This is far too short to come near that, but it edges towards it at times.The movie differs from the book in a few ways.
Voodoo, buried treasure, sharks and alligators and poison fish – and Mr. Big.007 returns to the Caribbean in Ian Fleming’s second Bond novel, first published in 1954.
The author was still learning to deal with his success from the first book, Casino Royale, and so some time is spent developing the character and the world building and introducing readers to his secret agent spy network and to Bond in particular.Fleming’s casual racism will turn some modern readers off, but he does a better than average time in describing Harlem in the 1950s.
I have always been a big fan of the James Bond movies and I read a couple of the books years ago.
Live and Let Die was originally printed in 1954, but I have a hard time believing that in the 1950s they still used horrible terms like "negress.'' At one point, James Bond is thinking to himself that he is surprised to see a "negress'' driving a car, let alone the limousine she is driving.
James Bond fans will love this book....it has some great underwater action scenes, a really baddd bad guy and some great daring-do.

And may I just say, "INTRODUCING JANE SEYMOUR" is the most chilling phrase I've ever in all my life seen on a movie screen?Introducing.
Oh gawd, the seventies.Then Bond condescends to pop Jane's cherry and takes away he rpowers, which the sexist sociopath clearly doesn't believe in; things go further and further downhill as Geoffrey Holder does a horrifying turn as a voodoo priest in the most ridiculous half-white makeup...well.So of course Bond solves the identity puzzle, rescues now-slutty Jane from her life of luxury, and brings down the (black, of course) drug dealer.
I never liked Simon Templar...I mean Roger Moore!...as Bond.
Now that's the Bond we all love!And the title tune.
If you read between the lines and ignore that Fleming keeps using the word 'Negro', which is not done with any sense of malice, there is a lot of respect here.
(the Russian assassination buro) in Casino Royale, the first book, Bond is hungry for revenge and M has an assignment that might get him just that.
He might also work for S.M.E.R.S.H., which has Bond's attention.It sounds a tad outlandish, especially with pirates in the mix, but this yarn allows for a lot of insight into what drives 007.
There is a lot of nuance here, especially because this is Bond's first proper 'action' outing.
2.5 stars ***2018 Summer of Spies*** Wow, this book has not aged gracefully. The casual racism really overwhelmed everything else for me. The dust jacket stated that Fleming had spent some time with the NY police as research. He seems to have absorbed their attitudes towards African-Americans without any reservations. All the black characters seem to be superstitious, criminal, or both. At least he allows Mr. Big to be a really talented criminal, not a push-over.Fleming’s own attitudes towards w
At least he allows Mr. Big to be a really talented criminal, not a push-over.Fleming’s own attitudes towards women shine through his Bond character with regard to Solitare, the white woman who he rescues from Mr. Big.
Solitare is mostly a prize for Bond, something to be enjoyed once the action is over with.Despite that, there are some bright spots—Fleming was very familiar with Jamaica, owning a house there and spending a great deal of his time swimming, diving, and fishing while he was in residence at Goldeneye, his Jamaican home.
The scenery and details of this setting are extremely well realized in Live and Let Die. The descriptions of fish during Bond’s dives are fabulous, too.
Okay, I'd known that Ian Fleming is on record as having been a racist and sexist bastard, but somehow I had managed to not really notice that much the first time I'd taken a spin through the Bond novels.
Wow, chock full of extremely blatant racism.
About the only good thing I can say about the racial attitudes expressed in this novel is that Bond, out of all the white characters in the book, was surprisingly the least racist of all of them.
The few good bits, though, weren't enough to make up for the blatant racism.
The same charges could be aimed at Sherlock Holmes, Agatha Christie, Bulldog Drummond and any classic character.Or what about Shakespeare - could we call the bard homophobic for not representing gay characters in his plays?
Do we start judging classic works by modern standards?
The book uses the word Negro a lot but at the time this was not considered a racial slur.
It also uses the word gay in its true meaning - damn Ian Fleming for living during the period and writing what is probably the best series of thrillers in history.
And I only met you a couple of days ago, but I wanted to tear my clothes off for you the moment I saw you because I knew you were James Bond 007, even though I've been a prisoner of the Haitians for several years, with no access to information about British spies who are supposed to be top secret." So tell me again, James, which finger is broken?
So by now it sounds like I hated this book, but I didn't.
I was told that "Live and Let Die" was slightly racist as a movie, but I figured I'd read the book before watching.
The most racist thing I found in this book is the use of the word "negro." It was not an ethnic slur until a decade later; as a matter of fact, it was the most polite and neutral term of the day.
The only other things that happen in "Casino Royale" are no thanks to Bond: his would-be assassins botch the attempt and bomb themselves, and he is saved at the end from Le Chiffre by a SMERSH agent.
Besides, if you read the above paragraphs carefully, you may notice as I did that the French, who are mostly white, seem to be assumed to be the main contributors to the worst characteristics of criminals of the world to Bond and M.
It is also learned Mr. Big recently bought Jamaican property, a little island reputed to have been Morgan’s hideout.While Bond travels around America’s eastern seaboard leaving many bodies and tortured friends in his wake, we readers learn he doesn’t like our American food, our clothes, our cities, our trains, our insolent manners or our low-brow culture.
6/10The literature version of Bond pales in comparison to the movie version, or certainly is the case here.
The literature Bond also doesn't have a cool theme tune unlike the movie version.
I think this is one of those novels that I was instantly coming into on the backfoot due to the movie version.
I love Bond in the movies whereas in the novels he is just a fairly decent spy with little charisma in comparison.
I think (or at least would like to believe) that this was down to the time when it was written and political correctness wasn't something that was cared of back then.
When a few years ago I was told that my work was sending me to New Orleans, my immediate need was to find a copy of Live and Let Die, because, well, a part of the film is set there and the surrounding swamps of Louisiana - and I like a Bond story.So, I got comfortable in my seat on the cross-Atlantic flight and opened my book.
Instead, we follow Bond on an adventure that leads from New York, to Florida, to Jamaica.Live and Let Die is a weird story.
This second book in the James Bond series was quite exciting.
Full of dangers from poisonous fish, voodoo and a sophisticated crime syndicate based in Harlem.
I found the action in this one (especially at the finish) to be raised several notches above the previous book (Casino Royale).
The setting moved from NYC to St. Petersburg to Jamaica which kept things interesting.
Bond remained the vulnerable hero that Fleming created in the first book, even to the point of shedding a tear after a particularly hair-raising escape from death.
I highly recommend the book.(Note: There is quite a bit of racist language employed in the book.
Better than the first, but it has the same issue as the first book, which is that the later portion drags. Not nearly as much as book 1, but still, I found my attention wandering.
Aside from stray remarks about the stupidity of Bulgarians,Casino Royale was mercifully short on opportunities for racism, but Fleming's presentation of black people in this book is frankly eye-watering.
They're consistently portrayed as backward, superstitious and undeveloped: several characters express surprise that "the negro race" is now "producing" gifted doctors, writers and the like, and Mr Big's criminal genius is seen as part of this process of development whereby exceptional black people gradually start attaining equality with white people.
Without any doubt this one is much better than the predecessor: faster and with a more interesting plot (more action).I am glad I began reading James Bond series.
Younger, fitter, less embittered (which is the impression I was feeling from Sean Connery in the last movie).Bond returns to America in this book and I am still amazed (yet amused) at how Fleming viewed Americans.
In the movie we see bumbling American cops and tough pimp-like Harlemites; in the book American blacks can, according to Fleming, barely speak English at all.Our Bond girl this time is Solitaire, a young woman who can read the future.
There is a tension to this racism--Fleming spends plenty of time reflecting on the inherent equality of ability of all the races, the shared humanity of us all, the rise in empowerment of blacks, and all of this is well and good--but it is still racist, in the ghosts 'n' goblins approach to voodoo (and the often not-so-subtle and obviously mistaken underlying belief of the author that blacks tend to be largely superstitious, and that voodoo was a major magical tradition all across the Americas in all black communities, regardless of cultural background); in the animalistic, primeval imagery used to describe the rowdiness of a black nightclub; and in the race-baiting of a black crime boss holding an innocent white girl captive (with the "threat" of interracial sexual relations and marriage on the horizon, oh no!), who must be rescued by a white male protector.
I loved Casino Royale, and it inspired me to read the novel.
I came away from that book wondering why Fleming wasn't talked about in the same way that Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett are.
It takes place primarily in Harlem where every African-American character is rendered a caricature out of an early Disney cartoon--you know, the ones they don't show anymore.
Yes because everyone knows Bond (in both film and print) isn't exactly marching with a pink ribbon.
I'm going to read the next Bond novel, but my expectations have been significantly lowered.
It maybe sounds like I had an utterly miserable time forcing myself to read it.
It's light entertainment, not too complicated and not too long a read.
Anyway, there's a bit of a punch up in Harlem with not a lot actually done/discovered, then they go to Florida where they don't do so much although Bond discovers how they're sneaking the coins into the states, and some sharks get fed.
Then it's away to Jamaica, where he has a training week and then does a night swim over to Mr Big's island for the final showdown.
Live and Let Die is one of my favorite Bond films, mostly because I have an interest in voodoo.
The novel of course differs a bit from the book, but I still really enjoyed it.There's a big scene in the book where (view spoiler)[ Bond and Solitaire are tied together and pulled behind a boat, basically trailing for sharks  (hide spoiler)].
This was later used in one of my other favorite Bond films, For Your Eyes Only.There's a lot of underwater action in this one with sharks, barracuda, and even an octopus shows up.
Just a really cool adventure novel.
This might indeed be the most controversial books written by Fleming as he was bend on creating a coloured criminal mastermind because as he saw that the coloured society was bound to create great people so the same could be said for the underworld.
It has been the last 20 years that the PC thinking have made us look skeptical towards the writing of before and became judgmental instead of learning that those were different morals and times, and I say not better.LALD is indeed used for the movie with the same name, a part is used in FYEO & LTK.Mostly it is a detective story in which 007 tracks down the criminal and not some mastermind bend on taking over the world.Still it is a well written thriller and actioner which considered in his own time was fairly exciting.
Ahahahahahahahahah … il problema di “Mister Big” è che non ha potuto guardare  “Indiana Jones” , che è arrivato parecchio dopo di lui, altrimenti avrebbe saputo che invece di stupire James Bond con i suoi effetti speciali, avrebbe dovuto piantargli una pallottola in testa la prima volta che l’ha avuto tra le mani.
Comunque, mi è piaciuto molto meno del primo libro della serie.
Giusto giusto perché si tratta di James Bond, altrimenti sarebbe stata una.Adesso mi tocca recuperare il film, che non ho visto all’epoca.******05/12/15Ho visto anche il film, che ha una "parentela" molto vaga con il libro e che ho gradito ancor meno.
