https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29154543-the-wrong-side-of-goodbye
I don’t think Connelly is the most literary crime fiction scribbler out there – in my view that honour goes to either James Lee Burke or Ian Rankin – but I do think he may just be the best story teller.
Both cases are given detailed coverage, as Harry – sometimes uneasily - attempts juggles his time and his responsibilities.The thing about Bosch is that he is a dedicated professional but he’s also a bit of a curmudgeon, with no visible sense of humour.
That’s hard to say - there have been many brilliant offerings – but in my view this one is right up there with the very best.
I just really love this series and now I have to wait patiently for the next book.Bosch is now retired from the Los Angles police department where he worked as a detective.
It is up to Harry to dig into the past and find out whether or not this is true.Meanwhile Harry is also working the “screen cutter” case for the San Fernando Police Department.
The rapist is labeled the “screen cutter” because he gains entry into various homes by cutting the houses’ screens.Connelly gives us a double shot of Harry as we get to see how he operates on the job and also privately.
He becomes embroiled in two separate cases, one a serial rapist, the other a hunt for legitimate issue of an aging billionaire feeling his own mortality is getting closer.Good police work, and while this is not a stunner, the cases not terribly flashy, Bosch with the occasional help from his brother from another mother, Heller, keeps the story moving.
I always look forward to a new one in this series and I was not disappointed.
Another long running series that manages to maintain my interest.ARC from publisher.
Both cases were interesting, but I especially enjoyed the search for an heir.
It involved a character who served in Vietnam, where Harry also served.
I thought it was well researched and well written, yet did not overwhelm the storyline.One of the strengths of Connelly's books is how he doles out clues and has Harry put the pieces together, and that is true for this book.
There were new bosses and co-workers in this book which made it feel "fresh." Mickey Haller also helps Harry out again with some legalities.And now the wait begins anew for the next Bosch book.
There's a lot to be said about crackin' open the latest Michael Connelly series with ol' Harry Bosch behind the wheel.
Harry is splitting his time between private investigations and volunteer time with the San Fernando Police Department.
Bosch is following a two-prong set of investigations this time.
Way back in 1951 he had a youthful love affair with a lovely Mexican girl who became pregnant.
The current flipside of these cases takes Harry through one of his most frustrating investigative experiences in a long time.
There's just enough tension and unanswered questions to lead the way.
Vance swears Bosch to secrecy and sends him on his way.At the same time, in his capacity as a reserve detective in San Fernando, Harry has discovered a disturbing pattern in some old case files, suggesting that a serial rapist was working in the area and may, in fact, still be attacking women there.
The rapist must be caught before any more women are victimized, but Vance's heir--if, indeed, there is one--must be found before the old man dies.
Twenty-six books into the world of Harry Bosch, Michael Connelly has solidified his claim as the logical heir of Raymond Chandler, and this is a book that will certainly appeal to anyone who loves great crime fiction.
4.5 starsThis is the 29th book that I have read by Michael Connelly and I have enjoyed every single one.
Reading a Connelly book is like sitting down with old friends.
In this book, Harry Bosch is now retired and splitting his time between private detective work and volunteering for the San Fernando PD.
He starts working on a serial rapist, called "The screen cutter" because he gains entrance to a home by cutting a screen.The second thread involves a case that he takes on on behalf of Whitney Vance, a billionaire who wants Bosch to track down a possible heir/lost love.
While trying to dig further into the Vance case, Bosch finds himself surrounded with memories of his time in Vietnam and the struggles young men across the country had with strict army rules and loved ones left stateside.
No matter the mystery or things going on in his personal life, Bosch finds new ways to entice readers with his rule-breaking and unique sense of justice.
Connelly surrounds his protagonist with strong supporting characters and references to those from his past, enough to bridge the old Bosch with yet another version of the man who is tackling police work from different angles.
And this goes for his latest The Wrong Side of Goodbye, which had all of the usual good stuff:-Harry is a great character: dedicated, a bit gruff, not perfect, but not over the top in his flaws.-Connelly knows how to keep the continuity of Harry's personal and professional life going without taking away the focus from the mystery or plot.-The book has Harry working two separate interesting cases.
What makes both cases interesting is the richness of the personal details Connelly throws in, including Harry's interactions with other officers and characters.-Mickey Halley -- Harry's half brother who is featured in a parallel Connelly series -- makes a good cameo appearance.Great read for the holidays.
Another strong entry in the Harry Bosch series. Two storylines are both are equally engaging. A must read for fans of police procedurals.
Harry Bosch is now a detective in the reserve unit of the San Fernando Police Department, having permanently severed his ties with the LAPD following his settlement.
His current case involves what looks to be a serial rapist, referred to as the Screen Cutter because of his method of entry.
Following the two investigations was extremely interesting, especially seeing Harry try to juggle both while respecting the boundaries set by the police department.
I really liked that Mickey Haller had a role and hope this trend continues.
(It also helps to have a visual reference.) Both cases had interesting twists but not beyond the pale.
Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch Series is most of all about Harry Bosch. Since introduced in The Black Echo, the 1st book in the series, published in 1992, we have been part of his life. We have taken rides with this character, learnt more about him with each book and watched him solve mysteries seen the passion he has for justice.  His character has developed throughout the series and he has become like a friend. Harry Bosch is not too perfect - he has emotional scars just like most of us. A mav
We have taken rides with this character, learnt more about him with each book and watched him solve mysteries seen the passion he has for justice.
A maverick, who will bend the rules to solve his cases, a passion of justice for the victims, hard-assed but with a softer side that loves Miles Davis and Sonny Rollins and Chet Baker and his daughter, Maddie.
The Wrong Side of Goodbye is the 21st book in the series and it does not disappoint.Harry, having been forced to retire in the previous book, The Drop, is now a private investigator and working for free as a part-time reserve detective for the small city of San Fernando Police Dept.
Michael Connelly does not disappoint; this is a welcome addition to the Harry Bosch series and includes plenty of appearances by Mickey Haller.
I'm not pulling your d---."While this novel leans a bit more than some readers will like toward making political points (helicopter manufacture bad/ immigration good/ corporations bad, artists good), Connelly's writing is as reader-friendly as ever.
The level of suspense is superb when a fellow police officer must be rescued, and sleuthing by Harry to find the officer crosses into the realm of super-hero.Connelly keeps the Los Angeles-area settings fresh, as always.Highly recommended for mystery and thriller readers.
But there's no question that it's Bosch at center stage - and working two parallel story lines, no less.The first story begins as Bosch, a former Los Angeles Police Department 30-year police detective turned PI who now works part-time (think: free) for the budget-challenged San Fernando Police Department, is asked by a former LAPD supervisor that one of the supervisor's clients wants a meeting with Bosch.
That last point, however, is in question; it seems a long-ago encounter with an older Mexican girl may have resulted in a child, and Vance wants Bosch to find out for sure before the old guy, well, croaks.In Bosch's other life as a part-time detective, a serial rapist dubbed the Screen Cutter is on the loose and racking up victims.
Brilliant- always!My View:Michael Connelly never disappoints! Harry Bosch is one of my favourite characters- I have loved learning his history, following his career, his relationships and seeing his dedication to his craft – solving mysteries and crimes, writing wrongs. I do not want this series to ever end. I am invested in the life this character. Keep on keeping on Michael Connelly. Fan moment over  In this narrative we are taken back to Harry’s time in the “tunnels” as we compare Harry’s ser
Brilliant- always!My View:Michael Connelly never disappoints!
Harry Bosch is one of my favourite characters- I have loved learning his history, following his career, his relationships and seeing his dedication to his craft – solving mysteries and crimes, writing wrongs.
Fan moment over  In this narrative we are taken back to Harry’s time in the “tunnels” as we compare Harry’s service history/time in the army with that of one of the people Harry is trying to identify.
As always.A question for you Michael Connelly - will there be an album of Harry’s Favourite Songs?
Readers do you check out the musicians/the tracks Harry listens to?
Neither could stop the tide of hope and desire.” (The Wrong Side of Goodbye, page 167)Michael Connelly’s twenty-first Harry Bosch detective novel is not a political thriller, but it does not ignore the present-day political climate.
He’s not supposed to cross the line by working on his private cases when on duty as a police detective, but sometimes he just can’t help but take advantage of some of the computer resources, a small misdeed that eventually was easy for me to overlook since he seems quite open-minded in his overall view of women and minorities, Hispanics in particular.As mysteries go, each story was quite engaging.
The Wrong Side of Goodbye is the 21st book in the Harry Bosch series, and each installment further develops the Bosch character while involving him in yet another fascinating and unique crime that he has to solve.
He is working his way through the department’s cold case files and is currently focused on solving the Screen Cutter rapes.
Between the two cases, Bosch has his hands full.Michael Connelly writes a fabulous mystery time and time again.
I also loved the way he incorporated Harry into a subsequent portion of that story.
The 21st book in the Harry Bosch series by my favourite author Michael Connelly.
This is typical of that situation and I loved every page.In this latest book Harry is running with two investigations, a rape case under his guise of a part time officer with the San Fernando Police Department and as a PI he's been asked by a very wealthy 85 year old man to try to find an heir.
A great writing style and I love how the author feeds hints to the reader, certainly in the running for my favourite read of 2017.I highly recommend this book, series and the author to any avid reader of police procedural books and crime thrillers in general.
I always read his novels slow so I can enjoy them savor them like a good juicy steak.
In this novel Harry is working two separate cases.
He is working on finding a serial rapist while being hired by a billionaire at the end of his life searching for heirs.
I cant help but feel he has two potential stories in his head but not enough for a full novel and therefore took two semi-storylines and combined that into one book.
I’ve never had such a hard time finishing a book by Michael Connelly as I did this one.
For this novel he works a case of a serial rapist for which the police have made no progress on for a long time.
Despite this story being a police procedural and not a thriller, it was quite exciting to experience Harry going into overdrive and leading his colleagues on the force past their resentments of him into a choreography of teamwork to try to save Bella.The case of finding a potential heir turned out to have some urgency and serious risks as well.
Harry is sure Vance's people are monitoring him, so he's careful to take evasive measures.....but are they enough?
The half-siblings pull off some sneaky moves, and it's fun to see them working together again.Meanwhile, Harry is also working on a case for the San Fernando PD.
Harry and his partner, Detective Bella Lourdes, are trying to nab the 'Screen Cutter' - a serial rapist who wears masks, doesn't use condoms, and targets Latina women.
Harry, always careful, keeps his Screen Cutter files in a locked drawer.
While Harry works on the two inquiries a murder occurs in one case and a kidnapping in the other - which leads to a frantic police search.
Unlike some authors, he weaves the details in to the story so the reader can be a detective with all the facts.
This novel continues Harry's journey.
What I find incredibly appealing about Bosch at this stage in the game of life, is that Bosch almost falls into the trap of retirement and then, at the last minute, accepts that he is who he is.
He's a cop, a detective that needs a case to solve no matter how old he is.
I love this message because accepting who we are and going with it is the true gift of age.
Harry is part time with the PD on the cold case desk and a part time private dic. when he gets a call from an old acquaintance who does personal security for a well known billionaire. He does not plan on taking the case until a very old man appeals to the softer side of Harry. This addition is a good mix between tough unrelenting Harry and an Agatha Christi-esqu story line. Very good, fast paced caper that has a double story and double ending.
He doesn’t advertise his willingness to take on investigations, but occasionally work comes to him through past LAPD connections.This is the case when a rich magnate reaches out to Harry in hopes that Harry can track down an heir to vast fortune before the magnate dies.
The critical timing of the investigation and the untimely death leaves Harry looking over his shoulder and struggling to keep the innocent heir safe long enough to make a rightful claim.Harry is also working on a serial rapist case for the SFPD in which the perpetrator cuts out window screens to gain entry into the homes of Latina women in the small San Fernando community.
While working  on the case, Bosch goes back in time to the Vietnam War and relives his pleasant experiences from jazz, LA, celebrities, and performers, such as Connie Stevens, Neil Armstrong, Bob Hope, and of course, my favorite, Judy Collins (1967) “Both Sides Now.” A poignant time travel journey as he reflects on his life, family, his past.In addition, to the changes in his career, Bosch’s personal life has also changed.
Bosch/Connelly fans will devour this one (especially the ones which are in this age range-"boomers" like myself, included) who lived during the Vietnam War. Many of us can also relate who have had busy careers, and now using our expertise in various consulting roles, or volunteer work, while enjoying our passions.
And for me the driving and street directional L.A. copy went over the top- but that's in nearly every Bosch unless he gets a plane out for a day or two.But other than that, it was a modern best seller copper fare that belongs on the high bar.
And Connelly, even entering the third decade of Bosch books, has NOT gone the way of so many other popular series.
But then Connelly's time span possible would not have worked.
Knowing many post-retired homicide or property crimes coppers- believe me- they are FAR more diverse in their interests and activities.
I have read all of Michael Connelly's and to say that I am a fan is a huge understatement.
As usual, Connelly took his time to develop all of the characters of the book, to paint a picture of where Harry is in his new life and, most of all, to show us the landscape of southern California.
As the case unfolds we learn even more about Harry Bosch and I honestly did not think that was possible after 20+ years of reading about the man.
Another great read from Connelly who never disappoint. I love the two mystery going at the same time.
Another excellent addition to the Harry Bosch books.
Again Connelly has surprised me by making the story so engaging after so many books.
Harry deals with 2 cases, no real surprises in either, although there were still some good twists.
A short story is due out next month, but I'm not in a hurry to read it after the last one, which sucked.Once again, it's important to read these stories in order.
Here is my reading order with links included, even for the short stories.
Mine varies from both by including ALL Connelly's characters appearing in the chronology correctly, even the minor ones.
4.5 stars When you read a series that has been running as long as this one, it’s inevitable you’ll enjoy some more than others.
What he needs is a good P.I. In San Fernando, Harry & his colleagues have been searching for a serial rapist.
Despite some friction with his captain, Harry gives in to his tendency to colour outside the lines as he races to identify their man.
But then another woman is snatched & this time it’s personal.
I read it in a day, growling at anyone who invaded my space.
But it’s Harry’s search for Vance’s heir that packs an emotional punch.
