https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74778.The_Sunbird
The first half is an interesting archeological boy's own romp and on its own would have been a 3/5.
However it's the second half that raises this book to greatness.
Ben Huy-Amon is a fantastic creation and the secret history of an empire that unfolds is do vivid detailed and ultimately heart-breaking that it made this book a classic in my eyes.
More than anything this is a story about the fragility of history; of heroes and villains, love jealousy and fear, of empires rising and falling and battles fought and how easily they can all be swept away by the sands of time to be remembered by no-one.
Easily one of the best books I have ever read.
Smith weaves a masterful tale of love, betrayal and adventure in this stand alone novel.
Oh, I'll also add that I have read this book three times.
I don't normally go back and re-read so let that tell you something if nothing else does.One of the elements of writing I feel Smith excels in and gets so right is in characterisation, particularly in terms of his characters motivations and feelings.
The whole book is a masterclass in adventure writing and historical fiction that anyone interested in these genres should be aware of.
Had I stopped at Part 1 I probably would have rated this one star.
I did not enjoy the prolonged hunting scenes and love scenes.
Everything in Part 1 made sense in light of Part 2 except the actions of the Sally (Tanith) character.
Sally's behavior did not seem consistent to me as the behavior of the other characters were consistent with their Part 2 counterparts.
This book also clearly shows its age (written in the 70's) and the sexism and racism, which were probably accepted at that time, stood out like a sore thumb to me.
Se uno riesce ad appassionarsi alla storia della scoperta archeologica (coprendosi gli occhi davanti alla stupidità dei personaggi, eh) rimane a bocca asciutta, perché la seconda parte (che è più della metà del libro) si svolge nell’antichità.
4. I personaggi di contorno sono stereotipati: c’è il ricco finanziatore che ha interessi nell’archeologia (e anche nell’archeologa *ehm ehm*), c’è la moglie che gli sforna bambini a non finire e chiude gli occhi, c’è il cattivo terrorista che trama per riprendere il proprio paese.5.
Tutte le battaglie e gli scontri mi sono sembrati senza senso, perché non capivo la loro origine.
Per non parlare del secondo filo narrativo, quello ambientato nel passato.
Now at last the red cliffs ofBotswana seem about to yield their secret.Under the lavish patronage of his old friend and mentor Lauren Sturvesant, head of one of the richest companies in the world, Ben and his green-eyed assistant Sally grope towards the mystery of the lost people.Magnificent cave paintings and the Bushmen's legendary City of the Moon are the unexpected clues to the first discoveries that point to the existence of an ancient city, violently destroyed centuries ago.But the magic of uncovering a lost culture is interrupted by dramas of a different kind: hunting scenes, romance, and the violence of African terrorists.
It's not helped by the fact that I found all the key characters to be highly unappealing, casual sexism and racism pervades the book (which may have fitted the historical context of the first part...
but that is one of the reasons I rarely read Smith's African novels), and the description of Punic military tactics is inaccurate (sorry but I am an ancient military history geek).
I know that others have rated this highly, but it just goes to prove that we are all different.
At that point I thought of giving up on the book entirely.
Wilbur Smith weaves a tale of life and love and betrayal that takes you along on a journey back in time.
The part II was such a gripping tale too every bit as entertaining as the first.
Some elements of the books i could not come to terms with but that's a personal thing and actually the detailed description is a credit to the writer, but some of the scenes of war and animal hunting just tug on my heartstrings too much.
This was the second Wilbur Smith novel I read and still in my view his best.
The characters are so well drawn you live with them well after finishing the novel.
Dr. Ben Kazin was for the time this book was written such an unusual and striking character you willed him on for success in love and as an archaeologist, the same goes for his parallel character Huy in the second half of the novel.With rereading I’ve worn out my hardcopy over the years and will just have to get the Kindle edition to stop wear and tear.
Not my favorite Wilbur (Monsoon) but still plenty of action, adventure, and faraway places. I'd very likely have given it a full five if Wretched Sally had died some sort of spectacular African death.
Nessuno come Wilbur Smith riesce a farmi sentire sottopelle il famoso "mal d' Africa" di cui tutti parlano. Un maestro nelle descrizioni dei luoghi e delle genti che li popolano.
There are very few books that leave me wanting to quit midway, to scream and amazed and also push me into the depth of depression because its over.
Interesting read and kept me going through, though there were times when I just wanted to get done with it.
I still am convinced to quit reading the book.
The whole historical depictions and characters are beautifully brought into life by Wilbur Smith.
In the end, it left me wanting for more.I'm glad I stuck and didn't quit(life lesson).
Also not my last reading of this book.
THE SUNBIRD marks the author's first attempt to do something different: this is actually two novels in one, linked via parallel themes and characters.The first part of the book sees the author in familiar territory: his hero is a hunchbacked archaeologist and the story is his search for a lost Phoenician kingdom in the deserts of southern Africa.
My only real complaint is that there's actually enough material for two separate novels rather than attempting two-in-one as Smith's done here.
Tanto per farvi capire un po’, nella prima parte (faccio un riepilogo veloce in modo da non rovinarvi la lettura ed il finale) un famoso archeologo nano e storpio parte, nonostante il parere contrario del mondo accademico, alla ricerca di una misteriosa civiltà fondata nel cuore dell’Africa dai fenici.
Quello che è mi ha affascinato di questa lettura è, oltre all’innovativa idea di dividerlo in due, la bellissima (e a tratti davvero cinematografica) descrizione dell’Africa e dei suoi popoli, boscimani in primis.
Esistono pochi autori che, partendo da uno spunto o da un semplice concetto, riescono a fare miracoli… Wilbur Smith è uno di loro e non a caso è il mio autore preferito.
For book number 400 I had to make it a Wilbur. It's told from two different perspectives - from the point of view of those who once lived at the ancient site and those who discovered the site centuries later. I think I was more interested in Part II of the book than in the beginning. Although, there were moments in the beginning I loved. It's a typical Wilbur book, but it's set up more like The Angels Weep with the time difference between the two sections. BTW...the end and Sally! Grrrr.... That's all I'm going to say.
You're right, Emily, the cover on the version of this book you lent me is totally stupid...it has nothing to do with the book...but, it was a great book. I was totally stumped halfway through when Ben and Louren got to the vault and the twist the book took was totally unexpected - so interesting! Thanks!
Read almost every Wilbur Smith book and this one is my favorite, after monsoon and birds of prey and the Egypt series and ......
The first half was 5 stars the second half failed IMHO miserably!! 1 star
It had been many years since I last read one of his books, but in the past few months have found myself exploring them once more.
Wilbur Smith is one of my mother’s favourite authors, and as she has been in and out of hospital over the past 6 months, I had given her a Kindle so she would have something to read while she was in there.
Even though my tastes have evolved as I have gotten older, I still really enjoyed revisiting this book/series.So if you are a history buff, love some action and adventure, and want a book that will hold your interest and that you can immerse yourself into- then this may be the book for you!
It did drag in portions but overall it was a satisfying experience.The story is split in two parts; the first is based in the current ages where a team of Archaeologists go out on an ambitious adventure to discover a lost city and end up finding much more than they bargained for.
The second part narrates a 2000 year old story of the city itself.
With a strong undercurrent of reincarnation, the physical and behavioral similarities between these characters (though annoying at times) form the basic theme of the book.I personally liked the first part much more than the second, as whatsoever mysteries were there to be unfolded were done in the first part.
The book is split into two, the first half being an archaeological dig in Africa and the discovery of an ancient city with all it's treasures.
The second half of the book goes back in time to when the city was at its most powerful, some 1500 years earlier.
The characters have parallels to each other in both time periods which I found interesting, and I wondered if there was a little bit of reincarnation going on?The author wrote in some depth about the city which I enjoyed, although his depth of description about certain aspects I felt went on too much.
So all in all I quite enjoyed the book.
Wilbur Smith is a fine story teller with a flair for describing action and the action in this book is gruesome.
If you can get past that, you will find an interesting plot.
Book One takes place in the present day and tells of a major archeological find.
Book Two tells the story of the ancient people who built the newly found city.
The players in Book One seem to be reincarnated versions of the players in Book Two--an interesting concept.
Smith tied it all together nicely in the end in an unusual way.
I absolutely loved this book first of all because it dealt with the idea of reincarnation which is a concept I find very thought provoking and history/archaeology always interesting themes for a story. The novel I think, deviates tremendously in some ways from other themes of this author in his other books, however an engaging writing style that kept me captivated from beginning to end. I think readers familiar with other books by this writer will be pleasantly surprised with this one.
Loved it. I used to read a lot of Wilbur Smith in my teens, and I thought I knew all his early work, so finding this - which was apparently one of his favorites - was a complete surprise. The influence of Rider Haggard is clear, and it showcases his ability to write modern adventures as well as historical ones.
Niente a che vedere con le classiche saghe comunque, come sempre, Wilbur è piacevole da leggere. Il romanzo è diviso in due parti, la prima ambientata nei ns. tempi mentre la seconda ambientata nel periodo cartagenese (io la preferisco).Solo un buon passatempo
Careful with that Axe ,Eugene....An Archaeological mystery adventure plays out in two very different time periods, in "present day" 1960's and in the ancient past of Africa ..Parallels exist between past and present..
Set in Wilbur Smith's usual haunts of southern Africa and full of great detail this has characters mapping across two time periods but I felt it just didn't have me hooked as pretty much every other Wilbur Smith book I have read has done.
I think I have read this book 5 or more times now, and every time I fully enjoy it.
The best of Wilbur Smith, I've read this 3 times over 40 years and will read it again.
beautiful history...
Great book!
