https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871478.Prejudices
I remember the opening to Sturges' "Sullivan's Travels" with its earnest advocacy for "the motley mountebanks" who spice up our life with their jibes and antic hop and how fun and strange and quasi-dated the whole thing was, save the fact that it is and was a brilliant, funny, sneakily powerful film) and on...think of the funny, witty, philosophically severe haters in our midst- virtually every standup worth his salt from Mort Sahl to Carlin to Lewis Black...I have increasingly noticed how the vibe of our media climate, print radio tv it makes no difference, has sort of unconsciously (or maybe consciously, based on what little I've heard) taken the grouchy tone as tactic of self-defense- the hater is the last one to get called out for towing a party line.
I don't share all of H. L. Mencken's prejudices - how could I, over a century later and half a world away? But I loved his crisp way of executing his victims, relished his irony and enjoyed being taken by surprise and obliged to laugh out loud.
Four stars not because I agree with Mencken's politics - generally, I don't, although the idea that "democracy is the idea that the common people know what they want and deserve to get it good and hard" sometimes sounds pretty accurate - but because he speaks his mind even, and especially, when most people would just shut up and let groupthink step in. Society needs contrarians, even libertarian ones.
The great thing about reading Mencken's essays in 2018 is to understand how little has changed in our political landscape.
By changing a few names and references Mencken's work could easily be offered as current political and social commentary on our unwieldy, but hopefully resilient, system.Examining different views of morality and etiquette: "The Englishman, surprising his wife with a lover, sues the rogue for damages and has public opinion behind him, but for an American to do it would be for him to lose caste at once and forever.
He's quite delighted to simply tear apart things he finds ridiculous: "The truth is that criticism, if it were thus confined to the proposing of alternative schemes, would quickly cease to have any force or utility at all, for in the overwhelming majority of instances no alternative scheme of any intelligibility is imaginable, and the whole object of the critical process is to demonstrate it." (84) This collection of essays is Mencken's weighing in on all manner of things in the way that only a 1920s, highly-educated white dude in America could.
Back in the first half of the 20th century, America became very pro-Confederate.
In his book “Prejudices” he presents Lincoln’s Gettysburg address as a lie.
He admired the Gettysburg Address as a great oratory but not as truth.
The doctrine is simply this: that the Union soldiers who died at Gettysburg sacrificed their lives to the cause of self-determination — “that government of the people, by the people, for the people,” should not perish from the earth.
The Union soldiers in that battle actually fought against self-determination; it was the Confederates who fought for the right of their people to govern themselves.
Mencken's views on the police in several of his essays show he knew they were a threat to liberty, or at the very least, a rude awakening for people who think we have liberty.
He notes that if they come to your house in error, you tell them so, and then flee their obviously mean intent, they will cheerfully beat you to the pulp in any state of this union.
His assessment of critics of each age as mostly unable to correctly appreciate the better artists of their age was true then, and now.
For a follower of Nietzsche, Mencken is a strange old bird. Nietzsche went after Jesus and Socrates. HLM fulminated against William Jennings Bryan and the chatauqua. However, there is some great stuff in here. An appreciation of music critic James Huneker that sent me to his work. An essay on Baltimore vs. New York that Chesterton could have written. He was certainly correct that Prohibition was a lunatic stab by the country against the city, and The Husbandman is one of the truest things written about the city-country divide in America.
(walter cronkite + edward murrow + hunter thompson + jon stewart + stephen colbert + keith olbermann) x 500 = 1/10 the talent, erudition, wit, morality, and character of h.l. mencken. oh, if only american journalism had anyone remarkably comparable today.
I actually have a lovely old two-volume 1920s edition given to me by a friend. The literal mustiness of the pages makes the intermittently musty bits more palatable. Some of it's still sharp. He was a tack, that Mencken.
why didn't someone tell me i'm not smart enough to read mencken? i am filled with self-hatred since reading prejudices.
Endearingly Nietzschean, for an American; fantastic humor, rhetoric, and observations
Not much to say, it's Mencken. It's brilliant. Surprised no one's bothered referencing his essay "The Cult of Hope" in discussing Obama.
Good writing; mostly apposite disdain; even the nonsense is good nonsense.
Just great.
