https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137808.The_Potato_Factory
Bryce Courtenay takes readers on the start of an amazing journey, as he commences a massive trilogy dedicated to his adopted homeland of Australia.
The reader will learn much about the man and his business as the story progresses, finding a way to love and hate him in the same breath.
The story itself is complex and takes many a turn, as one would expect of a Courtenay piece, though each tidbit finds its way into the larger narrative.
While I am the second (Courtenay being the first) to decry racist language, one cannot divorce the way characters speak from the time in which they are living.
Holy hell!
This is one damn good book.
Bryce Courtenay still amazes me in his level of research comparable to only authors such as Diana Gabaldon and Jack Whyte.
It deals with the populating of the British colonies in Australia, Tasmaina, and New Zealand.
While the accuracy of detail is impeccable, his skill as a storyteller is what keeps me hooked on ordering his books from Australia.
Good God, I hope this man lives forever and keeps writing!
Thank goodness that it is one book in a series of 3.
I "read" this as a download from Audible.com. Humphrey Bower is an exceptional narrator effortlessly giving each character their own distinct voice. I was enthralled with Courtenay's writing and Bower's narration. I don't know if I'd give it five stars as a print book or not, but I recommend it as an audible book to anyone.
** donated to CCU 30/10/2014review finally!.Ikey Solomon and his partner in crime, Mary Abacus, make the harsh journey from thriving nineteenth-century London to the convict settlement of Van Diemen's Land.In the backstreets and dives of Hobart Town, Mary builds The Potato Factory - a brewery, where she plans a new future.
My other complaint is while Ikey is mostly billed as the main character, when he dies 3/4 way through, it's announced in a letter and the reader is wondering how and while there are two books in this series following this one, it seems odd he is so suddenly out of the picture.
What an oversight that was.'The Potato Factory' is a journey back in time to Dickensian London and all the filth and squalor that inspired Charles Dickens to pen his many novels, and in particular ‘Oliver Twist’.Although written as a work of fiction, the author chose this route to publication only as a method of filling out the bare facts as recorded in historical periodicals of the time, both here and in Van Demons Land.
Also, the way he sets up the background of the story is nothing short of perfect, you know each detail has been meticulously researched it was almost like I was reading a very interesting history book about how people lived in that time.
I started to get annoyed that the story was never going to finish because it kept diverting into these other random facts and story lines.
I understand that there was a next chapter to the story however I believe that Courtenay should have just finished telling the story between Ikey, Mary and Hannah before he dives into the next book.
This is Historical Fiction and I've had this in my audio library for quite some time.
I liked that it fully covered the same characters for decades.
I felt like I really got to know them.
I liked the way the the author took opportunities to torture his characters.
That ebbed and flowed seamlessly throughout the story.This was a solid 4 stars for me.
At times it was heavy on the narrative, which isn't a plus in my book, but it worked here.
Some of that was too vague.) Overall, I still enjoyed this, so 4 stars.
The storyline was so fascinating to me as a look into the lives of the poor and downtrodden - prisoners sent from Britain to Australia.
I don't believe it is filthy for the sake of filth, but if this were a movie it would be R for sure.
For me it was almost like reading in another language, a vernacular of our own, but even though I can't stand to watch movies with lots of swearing, this book didn't bother me.
I was enthralled with the lives of the characters and the human trials they endured.
What I got was a book that held my rapt attention, a book that was a super fast and interesting read, a book that includes two characters that also appear in Charles Dickens book Oliver Twist, and a whole lot of really great history on England, the British legal and penal systen, and Van Diemen's Land, which is now known as Tasmania.We follow the fortunes of Ikey Solomon (Fagin), a young street urchin in London (The Artful Dodger), Bob Marley, Ikey's estranged and vengeful wife Hannah and her children, Mary Abacas who is truly Ikey's love of his life and who turns from prostitute to business woman when her fortunes turn, and one of the great characters I have ever come across who is eventually known as Sperm Whale Sally!This is an eventful book that follows the fortunes and misfortunes of Ikey and how he gets in and out of trouble, along with the journey of Mary who is a mathematical whiz with the device that gives her her last name.
Yet I would always pick it up again, keen to find out what happens next, because throughout the story there is a glimmer of hope in its characters' grit, their will to survive and find peace, however short lived.
Bryce Courtenay is an impressive storyteller who is sometimes ruthless to his readers while describing the realities of life in the poverty-stricken London and Van Diemen's land (Tasmania).
He is far from subtle but he also makes it impossible to stay cold and disinterested in the fate of his characters.
Big, brash and epic, The Potato Factory takes us back to early 19th century London and to the early years of England’s penal settlement in Tasmania, “Van Diemen’s Land”.
This is the London of Charles Dickens, gritty with poverty, violence, brutality and crime, much of which we come to see, gets exported to Australia.The Potato Factory is Courtenays’ fictionalized history of Ikey Solomon, his wife Anna and his erstwhile mistress and business partner, Mary.
The Potato Factory is story-telling at its’ best.And I cannot finish without giving another strong plug for the audiobook, narrated by Humphrey Bower.
This is the first in the Australian trilogy:1.The Potato Factory2.Tommo & Hawk3.Solomon's SongI was hooked after the first chapter!Bryce Courtenay is noted for his ability to weave dramatic, graphic, human stories with historic fact.
As the last chapter in this book comes to a close, Mary and her two sons, Tommo and Hawk,reunited after horrific events, have finally acquired the financial means to move forward, and upward, in society, as a family and in the legal business world.
Looking forward to starting book #2 in the Trilogy: Tommo & Hawk.
The first half of this novel, set in nineteenth century London, is slowly-paced, but packed with eccentric, Dickensian characters, complete with dialect.
The very eventful second half takes place mostly in Australia during its penal colony days, as the feud that boils for over 700 pages comes to a head.
The ambitious scope of the story is realized with solidly-crafted prose and compelling characters.
Though some of these characters come uncomfortably close to stereotypes, the feeling that the story was being shared with me by an eccentric uncle made this feel okay somehow.
Set in the early 19th century, THE POTATO FACTORY explores the lives of London's thieves, con men, prostitutes, street urchins and lowlife who, suffering from England's social and political inequalities, are sent to the penal colony of Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania).
This Dickensian tale with larger-than-life characters and plenty of pulp is not for the fainthearted as master storyteller Bryce Courtenay spares no sordid or salacious detail.
I loved the book but at 852 pages found it to be overly long.
Like all good storytellers, Courtenay digresses, occasionally going into way too much detail without necessarily furthering the plot or providing additional insight into the characters.
What an altogether roller coaster journey about London during the early and mid 18 hundreds.
I knew that 'life' during those times was rather terrible for the lower class of the population, but how vividly 'poverty' is described - in a Charles Dickens style - leave little to the imagination of the reader.
I never knew that Tasmania was a destination for convicts, I knew about Australia yes, but this story added a whole new meaning to human suffering and the triumph of the human spirit never to give up!
Listened to on my IPod. Amazing Narration with Humphrey Bower doing many dialects with great skill. The story is about Fagan, the "villain" from Oliver, who is a real life character who Dickens used to tell the story of the young thieves. Much of the story takes place in Australia after his deportment for his crimes.
In his foreword, Courtenay describes this novel as his personal thank you note to his adopted home country of Australia, and in many ways you could say the story of the underdog is the very manifesto of Australia itself – the will to show the world that a bunch of people “society” cast off as trash and scum can make it through hard work, wit and pure gumption, and they don't need silly things like “good breeding” or boarding school manners to win at life.
I listened to the audiobook of 23 hours.
This book took the author 20 years to write due to research and accuracy.
The story is based on true individuals of Ikey Solomon and Mary Sparrow who were convicts and sent to Australia to serve their sentences.
Cannon did a wonderful job telling their stories of street debauchery and Ikey's life of crime and Mary's good nature and tenacity to overcome society's views of criminals and women.
The actor who read was superb!
This is the first book of a trilogy and I'm looking forward to reading more of the Solomon's story.
The amount of research that must have went into this story is amazing.
The story follows the journey of one Ikey Solomon.
Ikey's journey starts in England and eventually ends in Tasmania.
Along the way we meet many loveable character and some we love to hate mainly Ikey's wife Hannah.
Mary Abacus as she is come to be know, due to her use of the abacus is a stand out character throughout the entire story.
It is Mary's idea to make beer that we get the name The Potato Factory from.
This is a historical fiction about the most notorious criminal in England in the early 1800's and his exile to Australia.
It reads to me like a Dickens novel, set in the same time period.
I've never actually read any other books that tell the story of how Australia was settled and how the convicts were brought here and treated once they arrived.
The first half of the book is wordy, slow and hard to read.
And only at the halfway point it gradually accelerates.
So I doubt very much whether I’ll pick up the next two books in the trilogy.
After just finishing April Fool's Day I wanted to read more from this author that has touched my life, particularly with his first novel The Power of One. That is definitely "absolutal" on my favorite list.
While I will read the next book (by the way this novel and it's sequel are the two best sellers in Australia I read), I need a break away from squalor and filth for awhile.I was surprised at the distinct similarities between Bryce Courtenayand Jeffrey Archer.
I enjoyed every word of this book,and who ever likes historical novels, will love it.
Australian's are lately so proud of their convict heritage(you can't become Australian now if you have a criminal record!), and most have romantic idea of settlers drinking Billy Tea and singing Waltzing Matilda, sitting around the fire in the bush, but reality of the times 200 years ago is much closer to this book.
Characters are interesting and you just have love them,or hate them, you can't be indifferent.
Looking forward to second book in the Australian trilogy,...
Because of my passing interest in the antipodes, after I read its description I thought maybe this book would give me some insight into life in Australia during the country's early years, specifically the first half of the nineteenth century. Unfortunately, I never got to the part where the main characters actually moved to Australia from England. They were so crass and disgusting, it became impossible for me to continue reading about them and their dissolute antics. So I gave it up, after about 100 pages. Time is too precious to waste it on despicable lowlifes.
I love historical fiction.
Before I read The Potato Factory I had never heard or Bryce Courtney.
The story of Ikey Solomon and Mary Abacus is brutal, and heartbreaking, however you have to admire the determination and success against all odds.
The events of their lives, apart and together, lay a foundation for an unparalleled story you will not be able to put down.
I have just started the second of the trilogy (which I did not know until I picked this book) Tomo and Hawk.
I have high expect ions for this book!
This book was physically difficult to read with over 600 pages of single line spaced small font. Really interesting story but did get bogged down at times.
It is long and the subject is heavy but it is an amazing read.The story is about Ikey Solomon (who the character Fagin from Oliver Twist was based on) and his fictional mistress Mary Abacus.
Ikey flees England and Mary is sent to Australia.
Each makes a new start in a new land.It was a fascinating read about the times of Dickens in England.
I also found the story about transportation to Australia and what women faced when they arrived in Van Dieman's land very interesting.I highly recommend the book to others.
4.5The Power of One's author Bryce Courtenay's epic trilogy book 1, The Potato Factory.
However, it’s amazing with characters that are alive, and details and atmosphere you would expect in an epic.
. Throughout the book I kept thinking, this is like an edgy Dickens novel.
And I laughed when there was a tiny part in which Dickens surfaces as a reporter.
I won't go on to book 2 at this time because, although I spend a mere pittance of time with the characters in comparison to the authors, I've heard more than one author say they become saturated with the characters and need a break, and so do I.
I listened to this book by audible. Humphrey Bowers was a wonderful narrator and I’m hooked on Bryce Courtenay. Fabulous author! Looking forward to the next book in this trilogy.
This book was way too long!! I finished it only because I started it. There were parts I liked and wanted to follow to the end. I will NOT be reading the rest of the trilogy.
Another supremely entertaining story by Bryce Courtenay. I read the paperback version as well as listened to the audio book. Humphrey Bower is such a great narrator who brings all of Courtenay's colorful characters to life! This is the first book in a trilogy, chronicling the fictionalized life of Ikey Solomon, set in London and Van Dieman's Land (Tasmania). I'm already on to book 2: Tommo and Hawk and am enjoying this 2nd bookImmensely too.
