https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860193.The_Provincial_Lady_in_America
I enjoyed this next episode of the doings of the Provincial Lady, though not quite as much as I did the first two volumes.
I'm not sure whether this was because the freshness was wearing off the idea, or because her trip to America (she ventures up into Canada as well as to various cities in the US) took us away from the funniness of the doings in the village.
Can only suppose that Taylor, when in England, moves exclusively in ducal circles, and hastily resolve never in any circumstances to ask him to my own house where savouries, if any, are eaten with perfectly ordinary electro-plate."Worth reading.
Whilst the third book in E.M. Delafield's Provincial Lady series is not told in diary format, as the first two volumes are, it is still incredibly charming, witty, and memorable. An easy but intelligent read, which feels timeless to the modern reader.
Non ci sono grosse novità nello stile e nell'approccio dell'autrice in questo terzo volume della serie dedicata alla Provincial Lady.
I punti salienti sono l'ironia, come sempre, che spesso e volentieri permette all'autrice di dissociarsi da prese di posizione spiacevoli e deprecabili senza diventare maleducata, e l'adorazione per la Alcott, che causa l'unica velleità dell'autrice che desidera ardentemente visitarne la casa.
Se non altro, mi sono entusiasmata e ho deciso di rileggere Piccole donne in inglese (lo sapevate che nella versione originale Piccole donne e Piccole donne crescono sono un unico volume - Little Women appunto?).
Very funny comedy of (English) manners and an interesting look at life between wars.
I thought this was the weakest of the her "Provincial Lady" books--probably due to her being on the go and having to bring in new characters all the time.
very funny same level of entertainment as all her others bravo..
It's always interesting to see outside views of American culture.

(This was a shared read-- always great for comedic works like this one.) The general consensus (in the handful of reviews I've glanced over) seems to be that, while still pleasingly amusing and witty, this is not quite as amusing as the earlier Provincial Lady books.
(I probably need a nap, though, and that may have something to do with it.) The revolving door of characters didn't help, though that is an undeniable aspect of any whirlwind tour.
Though she didn't visit the South in her travels, there were at least a few encounters with Southern characters.
Now, however, rather than living in the shadow of Lady B and occasionally pawning her great aunt's diamond ring--she is being feted in America as the visiting British authoress.
Or British train stations--apparently they are small and dirty, America's stations being much nicer.
The kids are at boarding school and there is a small army of servants to take care of the husband.
Update: The main thing the Provincial Lady wants to do in America is to visit the Alcott House in Concord, Mass!
Not sure about the sobbing at the movie, but her wanting to see the house and then the movie--she's a kindred spirit.
I didn't like this sequel quite as much as I liked the first "Provincial Lady" book I read, but it was still delightful: charming and funny and an easy read.
The Provincial Lady remains very relatable, even all these years later, and the people she encounters are people you'll recognize.
This book was also especially fun because she's touring America.
Her observations on cities like Boston, Washington, and Chicago were fascinating and amusing, and I loved that, everywhere she went, she was asked about the Problem of Women in America.
It's almost a hundred years later, and we're still talking about that.
The third in the Provincial Lady series.In this one, the PL uses her diary to record her activities on a several month long book tour of the US in the 1930s.
She visits the World Fair in Chicago, a speakeasy in New York, the Alcott House in Boston and various other sites along the way.
This was a funny book, more in keeping with the first in the series than the second.
In the second story she was often abrasive, but in the third she was her charming, witty, sometime less than confident self again.
This is an interesting book as a time capsule of an English person's visit to US/Canada in the 1930's.
She meets some funny characters and genuinely enjoys soaking up the cultural differences on a whirlwind tour.
There is an aside where she notes that it is impossible to be authentic and mean what you say when you are forced to meet so many people in a whirl and that rings true.
Despite the good cross cultural material, this book isn't quite as quick and funny as the prior ones.
It may be that the experience for her didn't lend itself to her humor as well as her village and family life.
It's hard to know whether to classify this as fiction or nonfiction, but it's always enlightening to read an intelligent traveler's view of your own country, even if the trip was almost 80 years in the past. Delafield's never-named narrator (and Bill Pronzini thinks he started it!) goes for a book tour to the exotic United States, being introduced to many fine people and a few pests, blossoming--or suffering--under the famed American hospitality, and being forced to drink tea, which she really doesn't care for, because her hosts think all Englishwomen love it.
This is the third in the Provincial Lady series and another witty addition. The Lady travels to America on a book tour and describes with her usual kind but clever way what and whom she encounters on her trip. The only reason I am giving it four stars instead of five, is that I missed her interactions with Roberts, her children and household staff. Still, the story was amusing and light-hearted, just what I was looking for.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Although Delafield's "character" is traveling through a new country, she does not lose her wit and cynicism on human nature. I especially liked following her adventure through the Chicago World's Fair; mainly because I work nearby the original grounds. It is only slightly less awesome than the previous two books in the series, but still an enjoyable read. I am looking forward to reading the next one, The Provincial Lady in Wartime.
Fantastic descriptions of travel in the mid-30s that conveys not only the locations but the inherent elements of travel. Slight confusions as to where you are and whom you are speaking with, lengthy journeys and trying times. Laughed out loud at some of the caustic remarks as I recognized only too well the conversations of "you must see x. No trip is complete without it," the superficial chats and small disasters.
This book documents the travel of the Provincial lady through America. I preferred this book to the first in the series but did not enjoy it as much as the second, owing to the removal of the majority of the supporting cast from the story. Its interesting to see what the British thought of Americans and vice versa in the 1930s and there are a number of running jokes and themes throughout the book relating to American hospitality, cocktails, tea and American fiction.
The Provincial Lady is still as charming and observant as in her earlier books, but travelling around the US promoting a book is not as much fun as rural life in England or holiday int in France. Overall it is more enjoyable for the historical perspective than the sharply observed humour of its predecessors.
what a disappointment. I honestly believed that this book would be as good as the others in the series I have read. It was little more than a list of tea parties, and lectures peopled by rather tiresome characters. I think the trouble is that she is portrayed as a respected literary figure rather than any middle class woman in the 1930s
Full marks for making me repeatedly laugh out loud in public when I was feeling very down. Adored the first, mildly disappointed by the second, but faith in EM Delafield completely restored by this third installment.
I enjoy all the "Provincial lady" books but am finding that I have started to skim them. They are very similiar. I find them amusing in a very dry but sweety British sense of humor. I think I have read too many of these books and am done.
Another enjoyable entry in the Provincial Lady series. It was fun to read about her impressions of 1930s America as she travels around for a book tour. These are definitely "comfort read" books and would be great to take on a long trip.
A funny take on America in the 1930s, as experienced by a self-deprecating Englishwoman. It’s very odd to read this light piece of humor, in which new dresses and huge cars figure prominently, and realize it was written during the Depression. The Englishwoman, by the way, loves Chicago the best.
I have enjoyed all the Provincial Lady books. In this one, it was fun to see a Brit's impression of 1930's America during her visits to Boston, New York and Niagara Falls.
I fell head-over-heels with The Provincial Lady in the first book of the series and, being American, thoroughly enjoyed her impressions on visit to America.
not as good as the first two but still amusing
This one isn't quite as funny as the others in the series, but still well worth reading.
Delightful!
Delightful!
