https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27404.Gideon_s_Trumpet
Gideon's Trumpet is the story of a mostly-forgotten man that changed constitutional law.
At the time of the Gideon case, Lewis shows how the tide of history was flowing in favor of the defendant.
If that most basic right, to be represented by counsel, was now to be extended, to all those charged with serious crimes in any court, the justices would want all possible intellectual support for taking the step.
The Supreme Court ruled in Gideon's favor.
As Lewis points out, at the time of the decision, nearly 40 states already provided counsel for felony defendants.
In other words, it's the reason we have public defenders today.The case began when Clarence Gideon, a poor white man sitting in a Florida prison for petty larceny, wrote to the Supreme Court that his 14th Amendment right to due process of law had been violated because the court that convicted him didn't provide him with a lawyer when he asked for one.
As the author said, our justice system gets hammered out based on the real interests of individuals, so the more we can hear of those individuals' voices, the better.One last tidbit of particular interest to me: Abe Fortas, the attorney who represented Gideon in the Supreme Court, was Jewish.
I read this book before I went to law school. It was supposed to be the inspiring story of how we all came to have the right to an attorney.I thought it was dull and was actually the story of how a florida redneck who was arrested for burglary got in touch with a bunch of high powered attorneys with an agenda.Appellate law is not interesting even when it is novelized.
There is Clarence Earl Gideon, the itinerant gambler and oft-convicted burglar who's handwritten plea to the court demanding assistance of counsel due to his indigence starts the whole process that leads to the historic case of Gideon v.
The right to counsel was becoming an all-encompassing way to strike down whatever seemed wrong in a case, and Gideon at least cabined and defined these rights for all to see.The author, long-time New York Times Court reporter Anthony Lewis, does argue for what today would seem to be an undeniably naive view of the Supreme Court's role in American life.
In fact, "How one man, a poor prisoner, took his case to the Supreme Court-- and changed the law of the United States" sits over the title on the wonderfully designed cover of my edition of the book.However, I got a strange feeling while reading the book.
What bothers me is thinking about the cases that the Court refuses to hear because they aren't part of the current legal trend.Lewis then describes the honor of being asked to represent a poor man in the Supreme Court.
So when my eldest son decided to go to law school, my husband and I encouraged him to read some of the recommended classics in the history of law, and pormised that we would read them as well.My very first book in this project to better prepare myself to be the mother of a lawyer related the history of the Supreme Court case 'Gideon vs.
One high point is that when the attorney for Florida informs other state Attorney Generals that this case is going before the Supreme Court and asks them for an amicus curiae brief in support of states rights in this matter, 23 states respond with an amicus curiae brief in support of Gideon instead.
This was the case when Gideon filed a motion at the United States Supreme Court arguing that his rights was infringed by a Florida court when he was denied Counsel during his criminal trial.
He acted for him in the Supreme Court, having been appointed by the Judges at the time.
Twenty three states appeared as friends of the court, buy argued for the overulling of Bretts vs.
Only two states argued for the retention of the verdict.
What remained is the practicality of having counsel in every criminal case a person faces.
Also, not one-sided as Lewis does a good job of showing Ass’t Attorney General Jacob as a sympathetic guy who really did believe that everyone has a right to counsel but ultimately believed more in states’ rights.
I felt bad for the guy sending out a letter to all 50 states asking for an Amicus Brief to support Betts v.
Brady but ending up getting Amicus Briefs from many of the states on the other side of Betts v.
Lewis might get a little lofty at the end, which is appropriate though it maybe goes on a for a bit too long.
"...Gideon is something of a 'nut,' [and:] his maniacal distrust and suspicion lead him to the very borders of insanity. Upon the shoulders of such persons are our great rights carried." I'm a public defender for prison inmates. When I read the statement above in the epilogue, I was amused and relieved to learn that Gideon was a lot like many of my own clients.
Very well written, it brings the case alive, and the Supreme Court even more so.
In the penitentiary for the fourth time, he tried to appeal his case--this time he was innocent, he said.
He should have had a court-supplied lawyer.
In 1963, his hand-written, ungrammatical appeal got to the Supreme Court, which had previously ruled that only Federal cases and death-penalty cases were entitled to such counsel.
This case changed the court's mind.
His re-trial declared Gideon innocent, as he had claimed.
We get to know all the justices, a little, and the lawyers who argued the case quite well.
Gideon's Trumpet: How One Man, a Poor Prisoner, Took His Case to the Supreme Court-And Changed the Law of the United States explore one of the significant court cases in American jurisprudence, Gideon v.
Gideon's Trumpet: How One Man, a Poor Prisoner, Took His Case to the Supreme Court-And Changed the Law of the United States looks at Gideon, a lifelong petty criminal and pulls no punches.
While the case affects everyone in the country, it also affects a petty criminal living a small life.This is a classic text and is a must read.
For one reason, we had an entire right to counsel issue that I would have understood better after this book.
Additionally, it discusses the role of a law clerk and how the judicial system works.
The assertion by one man that the constitution requires counsel for all, not just those who can afford it, instituted a sweeping change in criminal procedure, federalism, and state's rights.
Brady.Things that I'm still working through: bond issues.
Clearly, the use of bail doesn't guarantee a person won't abscond or commit new law violations.
including judges denying bail on all VOPs. I want to write books like this one day.
This was one of the rare moments in history where the weak vindicated and the wrong righted.Anthony Lewis did a fantastic job elucidating the legal background and reasoning as he told the extraordinary history behind this case."If an obscure Florida convict named Clarence Earl Gideon had not sat down in prison with a pencil and paper to write a letter to the Supreme Court; and if the Supreme Court had not taken the trouble to look at the merits in that one crude petition among all the bundles of mail it must receive every day, the vast machinery of American law would have gone on functioning undisturbed.
Gideon felt that this was a violation of his constitutional right to be represented by counsel and while he was in a Florida prison he sat down and wrote a petition for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court.
As Anthony Lewis put it "the victory of Clarence Earl Gideon shows that even the poorest and least powerful of men--a convict with not even a friend to visit him in prison--can take his case to the highest court in the land and bring about a fundamental change in the law." This book puts a human face on each of the players in the case and ultimately reads like a novel.
Wainwright since I was in high school in the 1960s, and I studied the case in law school and taught it in my Constitution and Law class - but I had never read Anthony Lewis' classic until now.
In language that any reader can readily grasp, he not only paints a portrait of Gideon, the real human being whose criminal conviction was overturned, but he also provides an elegant perspective on the historical and legal evolution of the Supreme Court's thinking on the subject of a criminal defendant's right to counsel.
Lewis also provides an excellent historical perspective on the developing role of the Supreme Court in our systems of government - both federal and state.
This is on my son's AP Gov reading list.
I got about halfway through it when my son commandeered it and inhaled it in two days.
It tells the fascinating story of a man in jail in the early sixties who had been denied representation in his original court case.
He eventually worked his way to the Supreme Court and fought for man's right to counsel.
It's a little dry at the beginning as it lays the foundation of the case and describes the members of the Supreme Court at the time.
I think it helped solidify my son's desire to go into law.

I had never read anything about our Supreme Court and this turned out to be a great start.
This is a pretty incredible story about one man who, without the help of a lawyer, appealed his case to the highest court in the land and eventually won.
The accused's right to a lawyer, and thus due process, would be considered as fundamental as any other.
However, up until this case, states had a free hand to decide when an indigent defendant would be afforded one by the state.
The author succeeds in providing an excellent description of how the Supreme Court works and judges reach a decision.
Worth a read.
I read this in preparation for a continuing legal education class which will involve discussion of the book.
I was not looking forward to reading it as I suspected it would be very dry and difficult to plough through.
It was actually a very easy read.
The author wrote in a manner which would allow a lay person to understand the Supreme Court appellate process, and effectively personalized the Gideon v.
I think this would be a great book for law students to read, and is also great for anyone who wants to understand more about how the legal system works.

Had to read as research for a loved one who's considering law. Recommended to me by a lawyer I respect. A great read for anyone considering law. Terrific story. If the reader is not a lawyer, it gets dry in the middle, but definitely plow through to the ending of the tale. All true. All heartening.
The first book I have read for law school since A Civil Action in 1L that wasn't a case book or supplement.Whew. Law school should require more books like this. It is the story of how the right to representation for the indigent in all criminal cases was codified by the Supreme Court.Somewhat uplifting, somewhat depressing.
An amazing account of the different that one man can make.
A Call For Justice and Due Process of Law For All Regardless of Wealth In order for a civilized society to function properly, there must be laws regulating the influence of the government to ensure it does not overstep into the daily life of citizens. The Constitution, for example, has been the backbone of American society since its detachment from the monarchy in Britain. Only after 1791, when the Bill of Rights was ratified, were Americans guaranteed “certain inalienable rights” like the free
A Call For Justice and Due Process of Law For All Regardless of Wealth	In order for a civilized society to function properly, there must be laws regulating the influence of the government to ensure it does not overstep into the daily life of citizens.
The role of the United States Supreme Court is to interpret those laws and protect civil rights from being violated under the Bill of Rights.
Thus begins the historic case of Gideon vs Wainwright: a fight for due process of law regardless of wealth and status.
This book goes into great depths about the rich history of the Supreme Court the great responsibility it holds.
In "Gideon's Trumpet", Anthony Lewis tells the compelling story about an indigent Florida prisoner who wrote a letter in pencil to the Supreme Court asking that his case be reviewed.
The result of this process was the Supreme Court decision that required all felony defendants to be provided an attorney even if they can't afford one.
Lewis discusses all of the nuances of the legal process and how the Supreme Court processes cases and makes decisions.
It is really quite an extraordinary book about an extraordinary institution that affects the lives of us all.My only criticism of the book is that it didn't delve enough into the human elements of the story.
Brady, 316 U.S. 455 (1942), was the controlling decision of the Supreme Court granting the right to counsel of indigent persons only upon a showing of vaguely-defined "special circumstances." By 1963, the Court had been moving toward a re-evaluation of that ruling, which was realized in Gideon v.
This book recites the process, the legal arguments, and the practical considerations that moved the Court to unanimously rule that "the framers of the Constitution placed a high value on the right of the accused to have the means to put up a proper defense, and the state as well as federal courts must respect that right.
Wainwright, especially considering that it was published relatively soon after the actual trial.Gideon isn't really a trial I would've chosen to read about on my own, but I learned a lot about the case, like how this instance of criminal rights was something that had the support of half the country, or how the respondent was only involved by name, and only after the case.
It made me care about criminal rights, which I do care about, but not as passionately as other parts of politics.That said, I thought the book was kind of dated, especially with how male-dominated and -assumed everything was at the time.
"'It is not a needle we are looking for in these stacks of papers, but the rights of a human being.'" (quoting Illinois Supreme Court Justice Walter V.
Schaefer, 36)"The rule of special circumstances 'involves federal supervision over the state courts in its most noxious form.
In effect, the federal courts are given a roving commission to scrutinize the proceeding in the state court to see if it is "shocking to the universal sense of justice."'" (quoting Fortas' brief on Betts v.

While it is both frustrating and saddening to see what has changed, and what has stayed the same since 1989, Lewis' accounting of Gideon v.
Cohchran, from its unlikely beginnings to its ultimate historical event as Gideon v.
Wainright is clear and informative.
Gideon's Trumpet highlights the circumstances surrounding the famous verdict that few ever learn of-- the long and tortuous path of the Supreme Court (and the various state courts) towards a universal right to counsel, the Herculean efforts of Arnold, Fortas, & Porter (the firm that undertook Gideon's appeal to the Supreme Court), and the human story of Clarence Gideon in all his irascible tenacity.Keeping both human and societal timelines accessible at once is no small task, and Lewis' book succeeds handily in this regard.
