https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25167837-the-garden-party
(Laura in the story, like Douglas Spaulding in Ray Bradbury's Green Town novels and stories, may well be the author's own alter ego.)Like many short stories, this one is difficult to review without spoilers; and it's also difficult to assess thematically, partly because Mansfield's writing is intentionally ambiguous in places --she allows readers, at the end, to draw their own conclusions about the message.
(It would help if we knew Laura's age; but that's never stated, which would be my only real quibble with the author's craftsmanship here.)As a final note, it's been suggested that the use of a female protagonist in short fiction is groundbreaking here.
For instance, we see that the moment that she goes back inside the house, Laura forgets all about her interest in erecting the marquee, and a fellow feeling for the workers, but becomes absorbed in a conversation about party dresses and the masses of pink canna lilies, which her mother has ordered.Laura is constantly being steered by her family toward views which they consider proper for a young lady of her position.
Here follows a free online link to the short story The Garden Party:http://www.katherinemansfieldsociety....Review:In just a minimum of pages Katherine Mansfield (1888-1923) captures remarkably well the personality of a naïve, privileged adolescent girl.
I hope you hear my sarcasm.Laura, young and naïve, not yet aware of the ways of the world, thinks the party must be stopped.
Laura’s mother says, ”People like that don’t expect sacrifices from us!”The story is a commentary on social order and class.
Is this why human behavior changes so little from generation to generation?What makes the story good is that while it delivers its message it also lets you smile along the way.
Mother has her own views."If someone had died there normally - and I can't understand how they keep alive in those poky little holes - we should still be having our party, shouldn't we?"Later, when Laura's told to go "just as you are" with a basket of leftovers and calls in on the family down the hill, she feels embarrassed by her sparkling party frock and gorgeous big hat with ribbons, of which she'd been so proud.The language, the dialogue, the attitudes are perfect.
Thoughts soon.
Narrated by Mandy Glasson" 36 minutes  Young Laura and her family are throwing a garden party, but when a man dies in her community, she is alone in wanting it cancelled. What unfolds is a protagonist becoming more aware of the world around her and the class divisions that exist.
GARDEN PARTYBy Katherine MansfieldSummaryIn "The Garden Party," Laura's mother throws a party. Hearing that their neighbor has died, Laura thinks the party should be cancelled so that the grieving family won't hear the music. At the end of the story, Laura brings the dead man's family leftovers.• Laura watches hired men erect the tent for her mother's party. She's shy around them, but delights in the beautiful arrangements her mother has made.• Upon hearing that their neighbor has died, Laura in
Similarly the garden itself may also be important as Mansfield may be suggesting that the Sheridan’s and the other guests at the party remain isolated (or protected) from the world around them while the party is taking place.Despite the apparent isolation from others, Laura does appear to attempt to make some type of connection with those who would have been commonly perceived to have been beneath her class.
imagine você estar preparando uma festa no jardim da sua casa para vários convidados distintos e de repente seu vizinho morre....Como agir, desapontar os convidados ou respeitar a família do morto?...Para muitos não há nenhuma dúvida quanto a opção dada mas para muitos (como a família de Laura , personagem deste conto, o que importa é manter a pompa...) Laura é do tipo de pessoa ,sensível, que sofre nesse mundo animal.! Que os animais possam me perdoar pela comparação!
Infuriating family members? Check.This short story is a concise journey into a mind of an upper class woman who seems to be feeling a little more empathy and compassion than she’s “supposed” to.
This is a short story with a lot of depth and profundity.
It is the day of a big garden party, hosted by Laura's family in their large house and gardens.
She feels sadness and some empathy towards the tragedy hit family.The story really centres around Laura, who is a flawed character.
Many of her flaws are those common to children and young adults, and she will get more of an idea of who she is and what she stands for as she grows up more.The story has a somewhat ambiguous ending, the reader (or this reader at least) couldn't work out exactly what it meant, what Laura really thought about it.
3 starsI only read the singular story "The Garden Party" for my class, but after reading it I'd much equate it to my experience with Alice Munro. Introspective, but unfulfilling. It's not horrible by any means, but I didn't love it. I thought it was just alright. It's an interesting piece to talk about with class structure, but I wasn't a fan of Mansfield's writing style and the story just didn't click with me personally.
Mansfield reveals the emptiness of modernity. Enter Prozac. Jarring read.
I have become a big fan of Mansfield’s writing. She writes of a time, an era gone by. The mood produced a feeling of nostalgia in me as I read. Lovely.
It was quite an interesting short story, but it didn't really do a lot for me. However, that might come with more discussion. I must admit, though, that the fact that it is modernist already made me more excited about it and looking at it from a modernist perspective is really interesting to me.
A sparkling garden party. A coloured marquee. Sandwiches labeled with little flags. Charming graceful people. Katherine Mansfield nicely captures the slow elegance of being wealthy. The dark thread in her narrative comes with an interruption from less wealthy folk at the periphery. A wonderful short story that blames no one for life's inequality. Better than Chekov? I think so.
I really love how the author wove in the themes of death and social classes. It was an insightful read, and surprisingly did not make me want to bang my head against the wall. Had to read this for my college English class, but I would still recommend this because of the knowledge you can gain from it.
A man's death is a catalyst for a young girl learning about her own mortality. Perhaps this was revolutionary at the time of publication, but it certainly seems rather simplistic and classist by today's standards, even though that was the exact voice the author was fighting against.
I've tried to listen to this multiple times and just haven't gotten anywhere.I finally switched over to print to see if I could figure out what all the fuss is about, but... beats me. It's not a bad story. It's just not that interesting either.
Dacă ar fi Katherine Mansfield încă în viață, dacă ar fi scris Katherine Mansfield în continuare: fraților, adevărată concurență pentru Nobel! :) Pur și simplu genială, exact pe placul meu.
This was okay, I guess..
This is an excellent short story; I read it and could see immediately that some of my favorite contemporary novelists and short story authors have benefited (whether directly or indirectly) from this short story. In particular, I was struck by some similarities to Alice Munro. Both authors write about moral ambiguity and class issues and social hierarchies, from a female perspective and with a similar realism. This story is character-rich, a bit dark, and deeply ambiguous. I can't wait to read more by Ms. Mansfield!
This was pretty interesting and there's a lot of material to analyze and look in to, but not super captivating
UGH!
This short story is about sympathetic feelings of an upper class person toward fellow humans of lower class and reactions of people around to those feelings. It can be read as a feelings vs logic story and readers are going to think to what degree the character's sympathies are exaggerating or acceptable. A good read for me!
I did not read anything by Katherine Mansfield before but when I got the assignment to do it I was quite happy to be introduced to her work.She writes in a sophisticated way that makes one dream of charming English country houses. I loved Laura because she develops most during the story. The fact that the short story is more than a nice narration of a garden party attributes to my liking of it. It is about the English Classes and their way of living but it also shows a lot of maturity.
Death and understanding life is a big theme for Mansfield (if you ever read any of her other works, you'll see) and she shows the reader deeper insights so perfectly well, that at the end of this story I felt totally blown away.
The fact that they are having this party, knowing a poor man has died I think represents lack of empathy.
And there is a social theme in this story between those rich and poor and whether or not they are seen as equals in times of hardship.
Anyways, this is definitely one of my favorite Mansfield short stories but I always love reading her stories.

I read it to help my daughter with a writing assignment she had in her literature class.(view spoiler)[ She's proud of her hat and throwing a lovely party, but she wanted to cancel the party because of an accidental death that happened down the lane.
Laura's sister and mother insist that the grieving family wouldn't care about their party and refuse to change their party plans.
After the party, Laura's mother decides to send some food to the grieving family and when Laura takes the basket to the house, she is invited in and views the dead body.

