https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158967.Garden_Spells
We may not be able to put magic into our cooking, but as a mother I know there are certain things to feed my family for certain reasons, and that can be sort of a form of magic (at least to the little child in bed waiting for hot cocoa after being caught in a rain storm).Garden Spells is beautiful.
Either through food, hairstyling, knowing where things go or giving gifts that will be needed in the future, they are all important gifts, but to the characters, sometimes a curse.
But, in the end, they all figure out how to deal with their gifts and how to come together as a family.Then of course, there is the apple tree that will show you your future that is in their backyard.
Yes, this book is definitely reminsicent of Practical Magic in plotline.
I can't imagine anyone not thinking so...a beautiful old house, two magical sisters whose mother died when they were young, one practical and a homebody, the other a wild woman with a daughter who comes back home to escape an abusive man.
I stayed up late to finish reading this book, and I don't do that often.
Practical Magic had undertones of darkness and spices, mystery and tragedy.
Very highly recommended...the best book I've read in a long time.
*3.5 Stars*I’ll keep this review short, and—in the spirit of this adorable story—sweet.Garden Spells offered the perfect magical escape I was searching for.
This book did sort of feel like a cross between Practical Magic and Sleeping with the Enemy, as many readers have mentioned, but it certainly offered a unique enough spin in its storytelling.
Recommended for readers in search of a light read who also enjoy a bit of magic in their fiction.
Garden spells is fun, it reminded me of Practical Magic by Alice Hoffman though. Both include two sisters who are descendents of a weird, magical family, which is ostracized by the small town's folks that they live next to. Also similar to Practical Magic is the violence in one sister's past that she is trying to get away from. Magical realism isn't usually a genre that I enjoy, but it seems to work well here. My book group at the library chose this, but I am glad I gave it a try.
Each of the Waverly women possesses a unique magic which has made them a curiosity in the town, but their oddness also keeps others at a distance.
Claire’s aunt, Evanelle, gives odd and random gifts that she knows the recipient will need in the future.
The fun starts when Sydney flees with her daughter from an abusive man and returns to the home she abandoned.
Claire gradually succumbs to the charms of the man next door, and Sydney finds love with a childhood friend.Garden Spells was a light, pleasant, and enchanting romance that was just a little too sweet, sentimental, and predictable for me.
So good, I read it twice. There is a great sense of place for this book, the imagery is truly enchanting and visceral. What I really like about the novel is how grounded in reality it is, making the magic seem entirely plausible in its subtlety. The pain and drama of the characters make them three dimensional and completely relatable.I was left with only two questions:1. Is there a sequel to this?2. If not, why the hell isn't there?!ETA February 2015: There is a sequel! Special thanks to Christina to alerting me to this :D
Perfectly sums up the way I feel about Garden Spells.
Fun and easy to read, this novel thawed my ice box of a heart with its quirky main and secondary characters, scrumptious dishes made from flowers I haven’t heard of before, postcard worthy setting, poignant rendering of forgiveness and acceptance, with just the right touch of magic realism.I particularly like the dynamics between Claire and Sydney after meeting for the first time in ten years.
Not your fault book, I just have a low tolerance for romance nowadays.
Another is the predictable ending.Overall though, an enjoyable light read, as is usual for Sarah Addison Allen books.
What I learned from this book is...if an apple tree throws its apples at you, for goodness sake, pay attention already!
This book is lovely, magical, enchanting.
At 2:30 a.m. I finished the whole darn thing.
I floated in a state of suspended reality, where time had no meaning.The basic idea of the book: two sisters experienced their childhoods very differently.
In Bascom, North Carolina, townsfolk know Claire's garden grows produce with mystical properties, like the honeysuckle wine she makes that lets you see in the dark.
Bay always knows where things belong.
Which means, if it hasn’t grabbed my attention early on, I normally don’t continue.When I saw Garden Spells on the shelves in the book store I immediately wanted to read it because of the cover, the title and the blurb.
Perhaps it was the high hopes and expectations I had put on this novel, but I was ready to toss it after the first chapter.
Funny thing, I had been right to judge it by its cover, title and blurb, because by the end I had really grown to love the magical world Sarah Addison Allen had created.
And I learned that you can’t judge a book by its first chapter.

This is not a novel I would recommend to others, and yet, I enjoyed its sweetness."Garden Spells" is the story of Claire and Sydney Waverley, two estranged sisters in Bascom, North Carolina.
Claire is a gifted caterer who knows how to create special dishes, and she is surprised when Sydney and her daughter, Bay, suddenly show up on her doorstep needing a place to stay.
Each Waverley woman has a special gift, even if they don't know it yet.
I have read Allen's other novels, but was pushed to finally pick up this first one because a sequel about the Waverleys was just published ("First Frost").
A tragic family history, a psychic cousin, a sister coming home to escape her abusive marriage & unrequited love.
I can’t believe I waited so long to pick this up.As a Texas girl at heart, these Southern characters & their mannerisms are so familiar to me.
The Waverleys share a long family history in the small town of Bascom, North Carolina.
The author shares the family’s secrets, love triangles & throw in a magic apple tree & I was hooked.
First Frost picks up the same characters & I’m really looking forward to reading it soon.Friends, what other books have I been missing out on?
This book is completely twee and unoriginal, and I am a little embarrassed to be reading it.
It's the literary equivalent of eating a whole box of cookies -- but not even good cookies, more like Snackwell's.
Mediocre and unsatisfying.(And yet I am reading it anyway.)Now that I've finished it, I can say definitively that the barrage of five-star reviews for this book kind of makes me lose my faith in humanity.
Even if you like this kind of writing, it is so clearly a wholesale ripoff of "Practical Magic" (not exactly a literary classic to start with) that I am astonished anyone was willing to publish it.I'm going to just go ahead and forget that any of this ever happened.
When Sydney returns, she must confront the past, mend her relationship with Claire, and embrace what it means to be a Waverley--all the while knowing that trouble is most likely following her and could threaten the very lives of those she loves the most.Garden Spells is a nice little book.
The chain of events that occur after Evanelle presents a gift to someone are often the best stories in the novel.Many of the other reviews have compared this novel to Practical Magic by Alice Hoffman, another magical realism book about two polar opposite sisters from a magical family, and some other readers have gone so far as to suggest that Allen has plagiarized Hoffman.
Fascinating premise, ineptly implemented.The author is a graduate of the Octavia Butler/Rosie Lyons School of Literature which features victims instead of protagonists.Shamelessly manipulative.The family of witches in a magic garden is a great setting for a novel. It is pathetic that the author could not do any better than this.
There is a unique magical apple tree that grows in the Waverly's back garden and each Waverly woman or girl has an special gift to share with the little town of Bascom, North Carolina.
You just never know what the apple's hidden secret well make known, good or bad so DON'T EAT THE APPLES!!
I couldn't help but think of Adam and Eve a little with the whole apple idea.A mystical garden grows around the tree and has gifts of it's own to share that casts little spells over anyone that eats from it also.
Ποια συνταγή περιλαμβάνει δύο αδερφές, που η μια δεν ανήκει πουθενά, ενώ η άλλη έχει ριζώσει σταθερά σε ένα μέρος; Τι γεύση παίρνει αυτή η συνταγή όταν προστίθενται σε αυτήν μια γριά που μοιράζει απρόσμενα δώρα, ένας άβουλος gay, 2 ερωτοχτυπημένοι νέοι και ένα μικρό κορίτσι που ξέρει τον προορισμό του κάθε αντικειμένου έμψυχου ή μη; Προσθέστε και πολλά πολλά μαγικά μήλα από μια πανέξυπνη, επιθετική μηλιά και voilà, έτοιμη η συνταγή.
Ένα ανάλαφρο, φρέσκο ανάγνωσμα που σε παρασύρει σε έναν κόσμο, ο οποίος μπορεί να είναι κάλλιστα μέρος της γειτονιάς σου, αν δεν τον περίκλειε μια πρέζα μαγείας.
Την ατμόσφαιρα εντείνει η ικανότητα της συγγραφέως να περιλούζει τον αναγνώστη με ένα περίτεχνο όργιο εικόνων και αισθήσεων μέσα από υπέροχες μεταφορές, τις οποίες σιγοντάρει η άριστη μετάφραση της Μαρίας Αγγελίδου.
4 STARS "Take one man, one foolish woman, put them in a bowl and stir."I loved this! Some kind of review to come in a few days after I catch up with everything GR I've missed for the last 5 days while I was not around.
When she read the second book and enjoyed that too, I knew that I’d be jumping into the series as soon as I had the chance.Garden Spells is a truly immersive magical realism world.
The magic is merely a background to the much deeper, more wonderful aspects of this story.This is a story of family, of love, of being yourself.
From the very start, family plays a major role in this story.
It mixes in so well with the family elements of the story, never becoming an over the top tale.
It’s sweet and addictive, much like the entire book.
“She was a Waverley, and Waverley’s were an odd bunch, each in his or her own way.” This is the second time I’ve read this book and I really enjoyed it, I loved the magic, the quirks, and the ending was just so sweet!I really liked the characters in this book, and I loved how the Waverley’s all had their own special gift, whether it be cooking or something more obtuse. I loved Evanelle’s gift most though, randomly having to give things to people! Even embarrassing things! But I just loved her,
This is the second time I’ve read this book and I really enjoyed it, I loved the magic, the quirks, and the ending was just so sweet!I really liked the characters in this book, and I loved how the Waverley’s all had their own special gift, whether it be cooking or something more obtuse.
But the very next week I needed it when I was working on a school project.”“Men in this town learn their lesson young when it comes to Waverley women,” Lester said, reaching for the cane he’d rested against the tree.
I loved the magic in this book, and the apple tree who liked to throw apples at people!
Garden Spells tells the story of two gifted sisters: Claire Waverley, a successful caterer in their hometown who has a decidedly magical touch with food, and Sydney, the younger sister who left town at an early age only to run into trouble forcing her to return to Bascom, North Carolina with her six year old daughter, Bay. Sydney left her hometown in an attempt to run from what it means to be a Waverley, and the magical gifts they have, as well as from the heartbreak caused by the breakup with her high school boyfriend.
Garden Spells is delightful and magical.
Both sisters possess magical abilities.
It was resminiscent of Practical Magic, yet more romantic and not quite as dark.The book is beautifully written.
She always tried to stay awake those nights when the stars winked and the moon was just a cresting sliver smiling provocatively down at the world, the way pretty women on vintage billboards used to smile as they sold cigarettes and limeade." I've never read a book in the "magical realism" genre before and probably would not have bothered picking this one up if it hadn't come so highly recommended me to.
I really enjoyed the book.
I enjoyed it the first time I read it when it was called "Practical Magic" by Alice Hoffman.
Prefer when the fantasy aspect isn’t heavy-handed; that a garden would be full of mystical elements wasn’t a stretch for me at all!
Definitely read this outside in a flower scented garden - Indulge yourself in some very pleasant fluff.
Read it in a day & a half, I know I'll forget most of it except for that bit with the fruit chucking apple tree - shades of The Wizard Of Oz...In the genre of contemporary magical realism  3 ½ stars “She was so Southern that she cried tears that came straight from the Mississippi, and always smelled faintly of cottonwood and peaches.

Simpatična čarobna priča nakon koje ti ostane osmijeh na licu. Lagano pisana, te kao takva stvorena za ugodno poslijepodne uz dekicu..
I was really surprised by the book.
It was the 2007 debut of Allen and for being the first book she has a good imagination.
She reminds me of Alice Hoffman with her magic and story telling in a Southern fashion.
It was a love story mixed with family miscommunications, a magical garden and physical abuse that breaks your heart and makes you smile at the same time.
Sweet and enchanting...
related to the characters and cheered them on til the very end...
Very girly read but it was a good in between before I start reading something more serious.
Claire Waverley živi pomalo usamljeno u malom američkom gradiću i vlasnica je male tvrtke za dostavu hrane.
Sve teče svojim tokom do trenutka kada na Claireina vrata pokuca osoba koju nije vidjela već 10 godina, njena sestra sa malom kćerom Bay. Od tog trenutka na površinu izlaze tajne skrivane godinama, a pratimo i ljubavne priče sestara koje će naići na određene poteškoće.
Pratimo tako sudbine ljudi u malom gradiću, onih dobrih čije će vas priče potresti i onih loših za koje ćete se nadati da će nestati iz njihovih života.Lijep je ovo roman, čaroban, kako mu i sam naziv kaže.
A handsome new neighbor, her odd aunt sharing her gift, and Sydney the wild Waverley sister finally home after ten years and bringing her daughter, Bay. Sydney's arrival causes a breath of air to sweep through the sleepy little town.
I loved the setting of the town, the old house that is full of magic, the garden of edible flowers and growing things, the whimsical apple tree, the colorful characters, and the gently-paced plot full of sisterly reconciliation, love, growth, and some challenges left to be won.It was all in the little things that I was drawn in and felt connected.
Who would have thought I’d like a book about an apple tree with an  attitude , but even it wormed its way into my heart in this charming story of two sisters.In fact, I loved all the enchanting Waverley females: Claire and Sydney, who were never close in childhood, but are discovering the true meaning of sisterhood. Their distant cousin (“second or third or fourteenth cousin”) Evanelle, who at seventy-nine, still feels a strange compulsion to give people things she knows they will eventually nee
Who would have thought I’d like a book about an apple tree with an 
, but even it wormed its way into my heart in this charming story of two sisters.In fact, I loved all the enchanting Waverley females: Claire and Sydney, who were never close in childhood, but are discovering the true meaning of sisterhood.
Sydney, who ran away from home at eighteen and is back after ten years, is seeking sanctuary with her daughter, and can give anyone a “good hair day”.But love finds them anyway.And the apple tree has a few secrets also.
