https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1157900.The_Horror_in_the_Museum
This could go two ways (the option of not liking this story not included, of course).
However, we all know when Lovecraft lived so for me it is a marvellous horror story.
The Horror in the Museum is not exactly a mysterious title.
Stephen Jones is interested to see infamous grotesque wax figures made by the museum owner George Rogers, a former employee of Madame Tussaud's.
Jones will spend the night in Rogers' Museum.
This being a Lovecraft's story, you know it isn't going to be a peaceful night.
It is written in a somewhat unlikely diary format (the author knows too much of what is to happen before it does, and also confesses far more than anyone should on paper), but is still a good chilling story, in part because the victim knows what is happening.“The Horror in the Museum” is another re-write of Heald, and it takes as its premise the story of a man forced to spend a night in a horrific setting, which was often used (and sometimes satired) by Bierce, Lovecraft, however, brings in an eldritch alien God and other mythos elements to produce one of the most frightening stories in the collection, which takes its name from this tale.I found “Winged Death,” also a collaboration with Hazel Drake Heald, to be a bit of a let-down after “Museum,” but that’s a tough act to follow.
As one can tell, I collect Lovecraft.
Hell, if there is an anthology with a new introductory essay, I'll buy it just for that essay.
This volume contains no actual Lovecraft but rather the revisions and ghost writing that he did for other authors.
There are a coupe of better than average stories here, but not really enough to justify buying the anthology.
If however, you have just a passing knowledge of Lovecraft, you would be better served by getting one o the Del Rey anthologies.
That way you are getting actual Lovecraft stories, not revisions of lesser writers' works.
Anyone who reads this story is in for a treat.
Good collection of horror stories.
The usual gang of Old Ones shows up in this collection of stories. For me the story that stood out the most was "The Curse of The Yig". This is another good volume for one to add to their Lovecraftian library.
Una vez que uno se sumerge por completo en el universo de Lovecraft, no existe vuelta atrás, porque todo cobra vida y la angustia de los personajes son nuestras, los mitos se convierten en realidades eternas en nuestras mentes, para entender que el todo nunca fue nuestro y que nunca lo será.
Con una prosa perfecta y un dominio del lenguaje y narración exquisito, el cual no es una cima sencilla para cualquiera, inmediatamente coloca en su lugar a todos los que intentamos colocar en palabras los mundos que vemos, se apodera sin esfuerzo de nuestros miedos, donde Yig y Cthulhu morarán hasta el fin de los tiempos, cuando resurjan y tomen lo que por derecho les pertenece.
A collection of most of H.P. Lovecraft’s “revisions,” “The Horror in the Museum” showcases the tales co-written by Lovecraft and other would be weird tale writers and correspondents.
Whether Lovecraft himself was experimenting or through the interaction between himself and another writer, many of these tales tackle subjects and ideas not often seen in Lovecraft’s own stories.
There are few gems included, however that make amusing and creepy, if not masterful, reads; I particularly liked “The Curse of Yig,” written with Zealia Bishop, a spooky tale set on the Oklahoma prairie, and “Winged Death,” with Hazel Heald.
Lovecraft dominates in the first realm of this fiction that I described, and I feel like it's the best, since it allows your imagination to create the elements that disturb; the text gives you a blueprint and it allows your imagination to run wild.
Having said this, you will understand the stories in the book; just, it's worth noting that it adds to the coolness factor of these ancient texts.
This book is a collection of stories which were revised by H.
P. Lovecraft.
The numerous authors in this book have a wide range of style, despite the same horror feeling as most Lovecraft stories.
This book is great for people looking for anything related to Lovecraft.
That being said, there were a number of stories in this collection which simply didn't measure up to the Lovecraft standard.
Certain tales seemed to drag on forever without any logical point or message even at the end.
Others on the other hand were truly terrifying and made me interested in some of the authors represented within this book.
In typical Lovecraft fashion, the real world is woven with tales of aliens, Old Ones, gods like Yig, Cthulu, Shun-Niggurath, Ghatanthoa and more.
However, if you're just getting into Lovecraft, I'd say start with the more classic tales in Vol. 1 which called Whisperer in Darkness (notably, the stories I recommend are: At the Mountains of Madness, Call of Cthulu, Case of Charles Dexter Moore and the Dunwich Horror).
This is the second volume in a set of 4, all of which are cheap as chips at £2.99 - which is an absolute bargain for the amount of content in each.
Having decided I ought to improve my knowledge of Lovecraft's work, which a few months ago stood at approximately nil, I've set out to read all four of these collections.
Now that I've started, I think it's fair to say I've become a little obsessed and, while forcing myself to take a break from Lovecraft to read some other things, I've already got my mind set on volume 3.Lovecraft's prose is incredible when compared to that most modern horror writers.
P. Lovecraft, The Horror in the Museum é uma viagem aos mais profundos horrores, transformando uma viagem noturna ao museu numa alucinante vertigem de sons e sensações.Lovecraft escreveu este conto como ghost writer de Hazel Heald, mas é notório no traço arquitetural da escrita que estamos perante uma história do autor norte-americano.
Se, em outros contos do autor, critiquei o mistério demasiado preliminar e a parca apreciação do terror in loco, este conto ofereceu-me tudo o que mais podia desejar.
Que venham mais contos como este.
Hmmmm....to be honest this does feel like a 'B' selection of Minecraft material..some of it is reall

Like coming face to face with the squamous lords of the young antediluvian Earth, this book requires faith to deal with.
But the middle is filled with all the hyperlocuous, suggestive and intermingling tangle of always reoccurring myths that you expect from a Lovecraft work.
This being a collection of co-authored and ghostwritten stories comes with the assumption that your usual expectations of HPL will not be quite valid here.
If you value your time and/or sanity, I suggest skipping the first 3 and the last 1 stories.
Some of these were total clunkers (I'm looking at you, The Last Test), and some were essentials.
Many were important additions to the Cthulhu Mythos such as The Mound or The Curse of Yig, and some others were great examples of Cosmicism or Lovecraftian Nihilism such as Til A' the Seas or the Night Ocean.
The primary revisions were story-by-story better than the secondary ones, which makes some sense, being that the latter were done more for the money than the art.
Other faves include Out of the Aeons, The Loved Dead, The Trap, and The Diary of Alonzo Typer.
Eldritch!
Una prank pero con un rollo lovecraftiano. Un descenso a la locura que destaca por un protagonista especialmente cuerdo. Como ya estamos acostumbrados los asiduos a las obras de Lovecraft tenemos un descenso paulatino a traves de la incredulidad puesta a prueba cada vez más hasta llegar a los pozos insondables de la locura tentacular y alienigena. Especialmente bien descrito en mi opinion. Un par de momentos espectacularmente tensos y un finalazo.
otro relato del señor que leo y en su idioma. La opinión que tengo, primeramente, del autor la mantengo y con respecto al relato pues parece que es la primera vez que menciona a sus engendros más conocidos (al menos eso creo)
The exhibits of a horror museum may not all be just the crazed fancies of the owner's strange imagination, as an unlucky man will find out. Worth checking out, a small tale featuring the old ones as expected.
Surprisingly good collection of short stories.There are still familiar Cthulhu myths intertwined into most of the stories, but there is also something fresh and somewhat different about most of them. Definitely a must read for all true fans of Lovecraft
A nice collection of horror stories by authors that are primarily clients or friends of HPL, who either wrote the entire story, made extensive revisions, or merely edited the story.
Jiñante.
Buena historia, entretenida.Para quienes quieran empezar a conocer a los dioses creados por H.P. Lovecraft es recomentable.
A great collection of short stories for the Lovecraft fans.
I'd already been a fan of Lovecraft for a long time and owned some of the other Del Rey collections, but this is the first one I read straight through.Since Lovecraft is "revising" (really collaborating and in some cases writing entirely) these stories, there's some variance in quality.
The secondary revisions contain some weaker material, C.M. Eddy Jr.'s "Ashes" was an especially poor entry, being a squeaky clean mad scientist story with an awkward romance.
But these collections never seem to end on one of the stories I especially liked.This was a great collection on the whole and I had a very good time reading it...
Intriguingly, one tale was written in collaboration with Harry Houdini and contains an escapologist (no prizes for guessing who this represents) who falls foul of superstitious Egyptians and encounters long-dead gods.As in the first volume, portrayals of other races and nations are essentially racist, though there are a few prominent female characters here who we can identify with.It would be stretching a point to say that Lovecraft's stories possess a sense of justice or poetic justice.
The forces of darkness are generally destroyed or contained, a plot necessity since otherwise there would be nobody to narrate the stories, and nobody to listen to the narration.However, the human agents are also frequently hoisted by their own petard.
Basically, ones where he took his client's ideas and wrote the story for them.The book is divided into Primary Revisions, and Secondary Revisions.
The Primary Revisions are ones were Lovecraft basically wrote the story, taking his client ideas as inspiration.
Some of the notable ones, in my opinion, were "The Mound," "Medusa's Coil," and of course the title story "The Horror in the Museum."The secondary revisions are more varied in their style, and it becomes clear that Lovecraft tried to keep his client's writing more or less intact than in the first batch, to varying degrees of success.
Although, as August Derlerth says in one of the introductions, "Lovecraft wrote the most memorable parts in the stories anyways."
It's always difficult to rate short story collections, because while there are inevitably some gems, there is also invariably some dross.
This collection covers those stories which are not generally considered to be part of Lovecraft's Mythos Cycle, the series of loosely connected tales where C'thulhu and the Elder Gods make their first appearance.
Several of the Mythos mainstays, such as the Book of Eibon and Nameless Cults, make their first appearances in these stories.
The book would have been enhanced if the tales had been organized into Mythos and Non-Mythos stories, as I've seen in other H.P. Lovecraft collections, or if one or the other had simply been omitted.
To say I "enjoyed reading" this book is a bit misleading - I found it quite difficult to read - not because it was in any way boring, but because the language was a bit more flowery than I am used to, with words that seemed to be crammed into the pages.
Some people may read Lovecraft easily - breezing through each page - I am not one of them unfortunately.
