https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30225.The_Harlequin
Just when LKH starts making me nostalgic for the earlier books (and in case you don't know, when I first read those books, I really didn't care for them - now, I'm like "WOW, I wish I was reading THOSE books!"), she has to resort to her sloppy writing and author appeal - and spending pages upon pages upon pages talking about, whining about, or arguing about sex/relationships.Despite an improvement in the quality of the book (i.e. the inclusion of an actual PLOT), Anita Blake is still a horrible person.
The Harlequin relies very heavily on dialogue between the characters, which is typical of Hamilton's work but in this case it comes off as clunky and tiresome.
Subsequently the characters of Anita, Jean-Claude, Richard, Edward, Nathaniel, and even the long obsessed about Micah suffer from neglect.
There needs to be a very large battle or war or something to trim the character list (and Anita's six or seven long-list of lovers) back down again.The one who suffers the most is Anita, who has lost whatever sense of realism that she once had.
The thing I love and hate most about Anita Blake novels is one in the same: I find them utterly and completely addictive.
Reading a PNR novel with realistic emotional evocation makes that fantasy world come alive in my mind, creating extremely strong mental pictures of all the characters.
I ride an emotional roller coaster while reading her books, and even after I put finish one, it takes several days before I stop thinking about it.
I know a lot of people critize this series for excessive violence and too many sex scenes, but I've always found the story lines compelling enough to carry me through.This particular book is about an attack by the "vampire police/assassins" called the Harlequin.
Too tired!The truth is, I have very fond memories from this series, discussing it with my friends, complaining about Anita and simply talking about our favorite boys.
I can no longer overlook these big holes and flaws that stare at me every time I start to read a new Anita Blake story.
Jean claude is supposed to be the Master of the city and yet everyone has started to see Anita as the main power, not him and hot even the entire paranormal community together.
Then after you let it simmer for a few hours, everything explodes and you have this monstrosity of a pot of sauce that has drowned itself in too many flavors?Well ...that’s this book.Some people say that you could never have too much of a good thing.
I enjoy reading about all of Blake’s sweeties, all the bad guys, Edward and sexy psycho Olaf, but throwing them all into a book together isn’t as easy as it sounds.Anita Blake.
Anita isn’t sure if she can give him what he needs and is afraid if she cannot, if he will leave her for someone who will.Bottom line of this book ..
I stopped buying the Anita books awhile back when they turned into lame bodice rippers. I kept reading them though because I was interested and invested in the Anitaverse. Oddly enough, this book had significantly less sex than previous titles, but sadly, it didn't improve the quality of the story. After years of wishing we could have some plot withOUT sex, we get it and it's dull. The horrible, terribly irony.
(not in the sense you're thinking of though, thank goodness)- overly describing boytoy's looks x 1- "it was as if" x 2- someone could do something "like a sonofabitch" x 1- Anita being bitchy and needy and gets praise from someone she hasn't earned it from x 2- a gun is mentioned/described x 2 (and she lef the office to go to a movie...)Extra points for calling your male lover, who also happens to be (or should be) a badass vampire a "sweetie".Okay, so here's the PROPER PREVIEW, brace yourselves.The first thing that comes to mind when thinking about Shitblake and her gathering of new powers and animals to call is the South Park's episode in which Cartman's trapper keeper gets out of hand.
I loved how the early books in the series the most there was for romance was like one kiss.
The books had all this wonderful tension between Anita and the men she loved but it wasn't all about sex.
And then one Anita started sleeping with her men, each book had one more sex scene then the last.
I get tired of reading solely about Anita's sex life until like the second to last chapter of an 800 page book when LKH finally remembers that there has to be a plot and tries to work it in in less than 50 pages.
I liked this book.
I think that it is interesting just like I find our American political system fascinating.
So I'm ok with Ms. Hamilton taking her time and explaining things.
I like that we are getting to know them better and better.
I liked that someone finally died and think more probably should.
She's taking her time to explain every little detail just like they do in the TV show 24 so I'm ok with that too.
I felt this book brought back the mystery and action while keeping the sex and the politics so I did enjoy it.
The sex scenes no longer occupy more pages than anything else, but the character list only continues to grow wildly out of control.
The metaphysical rape of various entire groups of were-animals?
Yeah, she goes there at least twice and the only person who seems to think this is a bad thing is also kicked aside.
Truly old school Anita, or Anita thinking clearly, would execute anyone else who dared to do such a thing.
If not, well, I'll be rooting for Richard to continue to mock for the disenchanted fans out there.
Better than "Micah", but still too much sex & not enough adventure for me.
I really like Anita Blake.
She hangs in there & tries to do the next right thing.
When she can't figure out what the next right thing is, she at least tries not to do the wrong thing.
Twisted, complicated world she lives in.I'm a little surprised I've hung with the series this long.
I almost gave it up, especially after "Micah", but I'm glad I got this one.
Hamilton is still expanding her world & this book was no exception.
The main thing they do do is mess with people’s emotions causing minor overreactions which are dealt with the minute everyone realises they’re having an overreactionDo you know how tense and dramatic a scene if where people talk for several pages about various angsty issues and then spend some more pages deciding whether or not their issues were legitimate or not is?
And later they head to a huge show down – I’m talking a massive dramatic show-down with Jean-Claude, Anita & co on a stage opposite the big bad Harlequin also on the stage, watched by a huge audience.
Anita, Richard and Jean-Claude have a big argument while the bad guys, I don’t know, check their watches and tap their feet and wait to be noticed again, I guess.
What killed this book is that everyone seems to want to talk each other to death.This entry in the Anita Blake series has Anita enjoying a rare night out with one of her boyfriends when she receives a mysterious white mask.
The premise for the book had a lot of promise.But in the end, this awesome idea is trampled flat by repetitive sex scenes & long dragged out episodes where Anita & her men talk everything to death.
I gave the book 1 star because while the idea of it was interesting, the talkity talk of the book just killed it.
Anita Blake just became one of my favorite heroes. I am interested in her and all of her supporting characters. The book is wonderfully well written and full of surprises. It is however violent and sexual so if that is not for you then don't read the series. Well, I believe that the whole series is like this, not just the one book. You don't have to read the other books in the series for this one to be good, thankfully. I really appreciate that as I have only read book four I think and this is book 15.
The vulturi, ahem, harlequin are in town.Anita is back to being a self righteous b**** and I really really disliked her in this book.Apparently,things keep working in her favor, to the point of ridiculousness.
Sometimes I wonder if the books would be shorter is she stops bringing up stuff that doesn't matter like her inner monologue and her pruderies.For example: chapter 28 was a total waste of time.
I guess I wouldn't be so upset if we had some insight into what him and Asher were up to while Anita was recovering.
I guess I'll take a brake from Anita Blake for a while.
I think we get some of the good-action-suspense-plot back we had from the earlier Anita Blake books but we also still get the great sexual side that the series has come to include in the last few books.One thing that bothered me and I think I have mentioned before in another review is that I miss Dolph not this new Dolph, I miss the old Dolph!
Thug or not I liked him from the very beginning and hoped she would keep him.Altogether, I think this book is a step in the right direction of balancing the old Anita and the new Anita, so to speak.I would recommend this book to, again, people who liked the last couple of Anita Blake novels.
The tension continues and the advancements tear on.Read again September 14, 2011Fifteenth in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter erotic urban fantasy series set in an alternate St. Louis, Missouri.
The story revolves around Anita Blake's increasingly vampiric powers and the issues it creates for her and the people with whom she's involved.The StoryThe Harlequin have come to St. Louis.
Nathaniel is certainly feeling powerful these days while we learn a great deal about how Jean-Claude's guards feel about Anita and the ardeur.
Malcolm certainly receives and returns the surprise of Anita's power.
Jean-Claude, Asher, Requiem, Byron, Wicked and Truth, Belle (from a distance), and Marmee Noir (from a distance).
(I really want to see Anita, Nathaniel, and Micah at Zerbrowski's for dinner.)Spoilers ...Odd book, because a lot of the characters were acting out of character.Borderline (in whether I like them or not) characters like Requiem and Graham got even more on my nerves in this book.
And a little bit of foreshadowing with respect to Jason.Oh, and the elephant in the room - Edward.
The wererats were all capable of doing everything Edward and Olaf did.
And to be contacted by The Harlequin is to be under sentence of death.Long-time rivals for Anita's affections, Jean-Claude, Master Vampire of the City, and Richard, alpha-werewolf, will need to become allies.
In this situation, Anita knows that she needs to call the one man who has always been there for her...My Thoughts:This series has always been one of my favorites.
I fell in love with Nathaniel when he first appeared on paper, but I have to admit that as LKH has been allowing him to grow he really is one of my favorite literary heroes.
This was probably the best Anita book I've since the...well since the ardeur (sp) started and Anita became a whore.
Sorry to say that because I love Anita, but she did turn into quite the whore...
But somehow they both totally flip-flopped, Anita went into whore mode, and Merry turned into the barney bad ass.
Four the best best BEST part of the book, is when Anita went off on Richard, that she had finally had enough of his bullsh*t.
there was a book or two where I had thought that maybe he was deemable then he went and screwed things up again.
The Harlequin is Anita Blake’s 15th book in the: Vampire Hunter series of PNR action and erotica novels by LKH.The story starts with Malcolm in Anita’s office, telling she will be getting a warrant for the execution of some of his following in The Church of Eternal Life in St. Louis.
She will get lessons from Asher sometime in the future.On a date with Nathaniel, Anita finds a gift box in the bathroom after a movie with her name on it from a group of vampires belonging to Marmée Noire (Mother of Darkness) called The Harlequin.
not only did Anita and her "monster's" kick some serious butte =)Richard committed the final offense and Anita has had enough (me too).
i guess all the men in the series can't be alluring and oh so dangerous but lovable.
Hamilton surely knows what she's doing.
she also brought back Haven (Cookie Monster), from Danse Macabre, a werelion who's oh so dangerous and hot!!!.
he's one of those u just need to hate cause he's so bad, but u just love him.
i forgot to mention he almost kicked Richard's butt in Danse Macabre as well.
definitely recommend this series for Laurell K.
Hep göt herifçilik yapmak zorunda mısın?Gerçekten!Bir yere kadar artık.Şüphelerini yenemiyorsan kendinle barışık değilsen istediğini nasıl elde edebilirsin ki?Seni severim ama olmuyor böyle.Richard'ı bir kenara bırakırsam heralde en sevdiğim sahne Olaf'ın Anita'ya yaptığı haraketti.Beni güldürmek öldürecekti resmen.HAHA!!
Olaf'tan böyle bir haraket beklenirdi zaten.Edward'ın yeni değişiklerini garipsiyordum ama alıştım heralde.Uzun zaman sonra yeniden Edward'ı okumak hoştu.Nathaniel dominant olacak inşallah!Ve hem kitapla ilgili hemde ilgisiz olarak; Neden Acı çekmeyi seviyorlar?!
Anlamıyorum!Anlayamıyorum!?Herşeye karşın Kitap Favorilerim arasında yerini aldı.Anlamadığım birşey kaldı Eğer Haven'la düzüşürse Rex'ın Regina'sı mı olacak?
Anlamadım tam olarak.Neredeyse Bütün Likantrop Alfalarıyla düzüşme yeteneğine Sahipsin Anita.Eskiden Fahişe olarak görsem de değilsin şekerim değilsin.Anlıyorum seni..nedenlerini.
I am getting so tired of Richard the werewolf and his angst. Hopefully, Hamilton is too. Anyway, this time, the vampire police have come to town. They're messing with Malcolm and his non-blood-oathed religious vampires—or somebody is—and they don't seem to be following the vampire cop rules. So she calls Edward for help—and he brings his stepson. There's lots of blood and mayhem. Lots of angst from Richard. Lots of sex. And there may be the final straw with Richard. I liked it anyway. A lot.
No mas!!!Had a promising start which devolved into one ginormous bitchfest. I could have done without the Dolph angst and the Richard angst. New characters showed up out of no where only to disappear just as quickly and I'm supposed to care?Who finds this crap appealing?No more Anita Blake novels for me.
4.5 Stars This installment in the Anita Blake was surprisingly good.
In my review of the last book, Danse Macabre, I said that this series had lost my interest and I was feeling like this series had run its course.
I don't know if it is because of the time distance between reads or if this installment was just that good, but my love for the Anita Blake series has been renewed.
This installment gave me everything that I had been lacking in the previous book and it has made me want to come back to this series again.
As much as I bitch about this series, there must be something worthwhile about it, or I'd stop reading it, right?My complaint with The Harlequin like with the last several books in the series, is, LKH coms up with good titles, and good premises, sets them up and gets you interested then bogs the plot down with one of three things: Too much sex, the Recurring Butt Hurt of Richard, or the Anger is My Name of Dolph the detective.
Anita's finally gaining some more control over all of her metaphysical powers, which is cool--it was getting a little lame that after all this time, she still couldn't control herself, especially with the ardeur. I like the way her powers are developing. The sex in this one was really awkward, but that's kind of ok--at least it wasn't a constant sex-a-thon. Also...Richard...can we talk about Richard for a second? He sucks so hard...and not in the good way.
What I did notice a lot more of, however, was that the author got on her "moral highground" soapbox too much.
The story/plot would be running along smoothly and suddenly everything would stop so she could get on her soapbox (with Richard usually as the instigator).
It was very jarring, and seemed like the author is working through something in her own life in this book.
That horse has been beaten, dead, and should've been buried wayyyyy down several couple books ago.
:) Due to the soapbox and Richard-dead-horse issues, I couldn't make this a 5 star read.
Is there anyway to replace Richard Zeeman, he just doesn't fit.
He is psycho, no one acts like him.
He got off on the blood, but you are supposed to love her - I mean wow.
That turned him on, but he can't get over the fact that she kills.
I have never liked Richard, he is the punk I thought he was from the beginning.
Olaf is a Scary man.
I love Edward - Anita is his soulmate, not Donna (ugh) I like Cookie Monster, I hope to see him the in the future - he is a real man.
Richard doesn't count (punk)
