https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1205819.The_Life_of_Johnny_Reb
Not your ordinary historical read in that the entire narrative is derived from written correspondence mostly to those at home. As such, there's no central theme such as there would be in recounting a battle or biography. In "The Life of Johnny Reb", each chapter focuses on a separate topic such camp life, the enemy, or sweethearts left at home. The chapters are exhaustive in their comprehensiveness, maybe too much so. On a couple of occasions, I found myself muttering "enough already" and skipped on to the next chapter. All-in-all an informative and interesting read, but not riveting.
My great-great grandfather fought in the army of northern Virginia all four years of the civil war. I read this in order to gain a greater understanding of what life would have been like for him and this book did not disappoint.
Bell Irvin Wiley was a historian but mostly he had a vested interest in the military history of this nation. He served as a historical officer during WWII. He uses the images Johnny Reb representation created by flag-wavers to contrast to the Billy Yank image created by the northern coalition during the Civil War. Wiley dives deep into a personal historic account of the Civil War, drawing from the personal effects of the soldiers who survived and some who did not survive. His focus through his w
Through the mind’s eye, he gives the reader a substantial image of what life was like in the middle of a corn field, as the smell of gun powder and death enveloped the falling soldier:“Color Sergeant Rice of the Twenty-eighth Tennessee Infantry, downed by a bullet at Murfreesboro, still clung to the flag, holding it aloft as he crawled on his knees until a second shot brought death and delivered him of his trust” (1718).The book begins with a lot of southern eagerness in regards to a war that they truly believed would be over quickly and those damn Yankees would head back to the north, never to set foot on southern land again.
It is effectively one of a pair, with The Life of Billy Yank, which I have yet to read.You won't find the great names of Civil War history here.
Even the officer class is scarcely given a mention - this book is very about the grunts, the footsoldiers, the nameless masses that generally escape the attention of history.
I'll be curious to read its companion, Billy Yank, and see if the author's gentle Southern bias is simply a result of telling the story of the Confederate or whether it comes across in the book about their opponents as well.
Hard not to appreciate the level of research Wiley utilized, of firsthand accounts and letters over publications. The best book, beyond fictionalized accounts, for understanding the day to day life of the infantry soldier in the camps, and of their backgrounds. Wiley's love for his subjects, even in all their faults and diversity, comes through very clearly. Interested to see what differences, if any, are in his account of Billy Yank.
Examines what the life of a common Confederate soldier would have been like. Much has been written aabout the generals but little of the men ib the ranks.
His book on the Confederate soldier remains an important effort, essential to understanding the Southern Civil War experience.In the Preface to his book, Wiley points out the fascination that the campaigns and personalities of Lee, Jackson, Stuart, and other Southern leaders exert (and continue to exert) on students of the Civil War. He aimed in his book to discuss the life of the soldier "as it really was" including among much else "how the hungry private fried his bacon, baked his biscuit, smoked his pipe".
1) The authors purpose for writing this book is to inform the reader about the horrors of the Civil War. The author indirectly states the purpose because the author wants the reader to think of what war was like.2) The theme of this book is to believe in what you believe in and don't let anyone tell you what you can't.
The author indirectly states the theme because he wants the reader to think of the theme.3) This book is written in first person.
Yes it is effective because the author tells his personal experience in the war.
This book is a must for anyone interested in the day-to-day life of a soldier in the Civil War. While parts of it tend to be a little dry for my taste, other parts are downright fascinating. The book covers everything from the initial/later reactions of men to the war and becoming soldiers, to morality, to entertainment, to medical practices of the day, to family, to first-person battle accounts, to soldiers' opinions of their leaders, to military law practice, to the everyday interactions between rebel and union soldiers. It's an extraordinarily comprehensive book, and I recommend it.
They don't write them like this any more. This 1940s classic considers the day to day lives of common soldiers of the Confederate States Army. We experience Johnny Reb's food, shelter, terrors, travails, entertainments and more. There is plenty of source text and a lot of it is heartrending. In all, a wonderful study.
Willey is still the go to man for the life of the common soldier and you can see why. This essentially a collection of facts, anecdotes, and quotations, yet from this a portrait emerges, one that is commendable, but not without blemishes. Perhaps not the greatest read, but certainly among the best researched.
I enjoyed this book. I currently listen to the "The Civil War Podcast: 1861-1865" and this text gave some good insight on the men who fought the war. It was an interesting read but is a very dense volume with tremendous detail and breadth. Highly recommended for those with interest in the Civil War. I plan to pick up the companion volume "The Life of Billy Yank" in the near future.
great source for discovering the southern soldier in the civil war. What they went through, thought, felt, acted, why they fought, how, and everything else dealing with the war effort and their societal and family surroundings
Too dry to finish.
I enjoyed reading about the lives of a Civil War soldier. Good detail on how they dealt with life in the army. A must read for anybody interested in the Civil War
I have read this book many many times.
Great book with amazing insight into the life of Johnny Reb.
Only for the true American Civil War nerd. Unless you really want to know what is was like...watch a John Jakes film remake.
The camp life of Confederate soldiers during the American Civil War, including many anecdotes of how they interacted, what they did and eat, how they thought and felt, etc.
Finally I got around to reading Johnny Reb. Totally unlike what I anticipated -- an outstanding book on the lives of the Confederate soldier. Highly recommended. Now on to Billy Yank.
This book was very informative. After reading this, I wondered how the Confederacy won a battle. I'll be curious to see if "The Life of Billy Yank" will be as negative.
Monotonous and full of oversimplifications. The writing style consists of needless tales that do not bring you any clear understanding of the life of an average Confederate soldier and why they fought.
I most enjoy books about the common soldier and this is probably one of the best written about the common soldier in the Confederate Army.
