https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26435.The_Problem_of_Pain
It was called Happy Valley, and it was ruled over by a wise old king called Otto.
And all his subjects flourished and were happy, and there were no discontents or grumblers, because wise King Otto had had them all put to death, along with the trade union leaders, many years before.
SPOILERS AHEADPain posted a serious objection to Christianity (and to Heavenly authority in general), aggravated by claiming that Love is the essence of God. The Problem of Pain focuses on one question, but thoroughly argues on every aspect. "If God were good, He would make His creatures perfectly happy, and if He were almighty He would be able to do what he wished. But the creatures are not happy. Therefore God lacks either goodness, or power, or both." In other words, why would an all-knowing,
SPOILERS AHEADPain posted a serious objection to Christianity (and to Heavenly authority in general), aggravated by claiming that Love is the essence of God. The Problem of Pain focuses on one question, but thoroughly argues on every aspect.
In other words, why would an all-knowing, all-powerful, and all-loving God allow people to experience pain and suffering?Firstly, Lewis set his arguments by identifying God, as conceivable as possible, and his purpose through the subject of divine omnipotence and divine goodness.
"Love, in its own nature, demands the perfecting of the beloved; that the mere 'kindness' which tolerates anything except suffering in its object is, in that respect, at the opposite pole from Love."
Lewis does at least make a good, solid, and sophisticated effort to address the problem of: "Why does God allow so much pain and suffering, if He is really a loving God, and if He really does exist?"; - which is why Lewis gets 3 stars, even if I don't completely agree.I remember quite liking his argument at the time I read it, which was quite some time ago.
He seemed to be saying that pain is sent to test a person, to make you stronger, to help you grow spiritually so that you could become a more spiritually evolved and aware person.But, I have in the meantime started wondering: on the other hand, what kind of cruel deity would devise such a system, that includes such horrible suffering as the world has seen?
The Problem of Pain is a difficult question every religion has to deal with, and one which has been especially difficult for Christianity.
Some religions have the luxury of explaining pain as something deserved - a result of bad behavior from a previous life, or perhaps pain and suffering are caused by a malevolent deity in opposition to a good and loving God. Christianity has no such option.
“If God were good, he would wish to make His creatures perfectly happy, and if God were almighty He would be able to do what He wished.
When we fall in love with a woman, do we cease to care whether she is clean or dirty, fair or foul?
Love is more sensitive than hatred itself to every blemish in the beloved..." - C.S. Lewis, The Problem of Pain"Every race that comes into being in any part of the universe is doomed; for the universe, they tell us, is running down, and will sometime be a uniform infinity of homogeneous matter at low temperature.
All stories will come to nothing: all life will turn out in the end to have been a transitory and senseless contortion upon the idiotic face of infinite matter." - C.S. Lewis, The Problem of Pain
Attempts to shift the problem by asserting that human happiness is not the goal of life (but knowing god is) removes the omnibenevolence and omnipotence of god (if you love someone, you don't want them to suffer.
Lewis worships a cosmic pedophile who revels in granting freedom to abhorrent individuals while getting his jollies from seeing the most vulnerable suffer and die in agony (only to get thrown into even more torture in the Christian vision of hell).Lastly, a loving god would take away free will from those who would willingly surrender it in return for a life without suffering.
I absolutely loved this book.
I don't usually like writing reviews where the fault is with me; but alas, here I am.As for content, CS Lewis has, as always, very well thought-out arguments and a logical approach to his content.
There were a couple minor instances where I disagreed with ever-so-slightly, but I had no concerns even close to major.
If you want to compare this to his other works, I find it's slightly weaker than his later books..
Surely, to improve with time is a positive thing, and you cannot hold that against him.
All in all, I loved it and I'd recommend it to anyone who doesn't mind a theoretical approach to things.
Granted, you may have to read his sentences a few times before you get what he's saying, but the idea itself is easy to understand.We had to give chapter presentations on this one, and of course, I had to do the "Hell" chapter.
So if you read this book and get to the Hell chapter, you can think of me :P The thing that I love about Lewis is that he always backs up his points.
It's never this, "Oh, well I have all the answers and here they are!" You may not agree with his interpretation (and some of the times in this book, I didn't really see things the same way he does) but I understand where he's coming from.
What I love about The Problem of Pain - actually, all of Lewis' books I've read - is his use of language and his use of similes, which make it easy to follow his argument.In The Problem of Pain, Lewis elaborates on the meaning of divine goodness, human pain, animal pain, heaven, hell - not necessarily in this order, though - and tries to explain from his Christian point of view what divine love is, what pain is, why humans can feel pain, and that there is a divine purpose to suffering.When I first read this almost twenty years ago, I could accept the possibility that there may be a substance to the arguments he puts forward.
This book was a really interesting and poignant analysis of pain and the Christian response to it.
While A Grief Observed was a heart-wrenching and yet inspiring read, The Problem of Pain was almost more so.
It wasn't a book that necessarily "blew my mind", yet at the same time it challenged and restructured a lot of my thoughts.
One of my favorite thoughts in the book is this from page 116: "The Christian doctrine of suffering explains, I believe, a very curious fact about the world we live in.
I've struggled for weeks to try to write an overview of this complex book.
In fact, my most important takeaways had to do with what it means to be human and how human flourishing is impossible without a right relationship to our Creator.Just as the members of the Trinity live in perfect, mutual, self-giving love, so mankind can only find real joy when living in selfless unity with God. Rejection of God's sovereign authority over His creatures brought sin and suffering into the world - and ultimately, according to Lewis, results in Hell.
4.5 stars. Nearly perfect.One of my favorite quotes (not from the chapter "Heaven", in case you were wondering.) "One can imagine a sentient picture, after being rubbed and scraped and re-commenced for the tenth time, wishing that it were only a thumb-nail sketch whose making was over in a minute. In the same way, it is natural for us to wish that God had designed for us a less glorious and less arduous destiny; but then we are wishing not for more love but for less.” I started reading this on a
Nearly perfect.One of my favorite quotes (not from the chapter "Heaven", in case you were wondering.)
I started reading this on a Wednesday afternoon as a religious book to read whilst covering for a Holy Hour but I soon realized that it was so much more than that.
However, this book and its content has become quite relevant, so I'm starting it again.It's really just genius.
And then there were a few sections where I didn't feel that the ideas had sunk into my brain like I wished.
And then I came upon the chapter "Heaven" and, nearly immediately, I knew that it would be my favorite chapter.
Reread again June 2016.You can tell this is one of Lewis's early books.
Written in 1940, I could feel that he hadn't worked out a few of the specifics within his beliefs on Christianity yet.
And some of his other ideas I flat-out disagree with (so sad to me whenever I see him trying to cram in Darwinian macro-evolution and discredit the creation story).I can see why many feel inevitably dissatisfied with this read.
But I think he does answer some important questions, even if not providing a completely exhaustive work on the issue of pain.
My continue exploration of this prolific and articulate author. So many gems in this one.
Los dolores "mentales" son objeto fácil de burlas o escepticismo.4- Hace dos días en Chile un hombre si tiró literalmente a la jaula de los leones del zoológico de la capital.
Y cuando el foco de la noticia se vuelca en esos dos pobres leones, me pongo a pensar cuándo en la historia de la humanidad, en qué exacto momento, los humanos nos hemos convertido en una mierda.
Y sí, me apenó la muerte de los leones, pero no tanto como la vida del hombre enfermo.El hombre que se tiró a la jaula perdió a la mamá cuando tenía 11 años.
The book reminded me of looking at the negative image of a familiar picture.If I thought to read about pain to seek its alleviation, I might have saved myself the trouble.
In my second reading of The Problem of Pain I was again surprised and impressed by Lewis.
And then there is sin...‘...mere time does nothing either to the fact or to the guilt of a sin.
The guilt is washed away not by time but by repentance and the blood of Christ: if we have repented these early sins we should remember the price of our forgiveness and be humble.
(Actually he's always honest, blazingly so, in a way that's doubly endearing and challenging, but perhaps that's beside the point).
Though it's technically a point-by-point defense of Christianity against the 'pain and suffering in the world proves the absence of a good god' argument, The Problem of Pain never seems like just a bit of apologetics.
It's logical, but not without emotional weight, and even while attempting to prove the necessity of pain Lewis retains a great deal of sensitivity and compassion.
The book is a conversation more than an argument, and a pretty jovial conversation at that.
As usual, Lewis's book doesn't disappoint. He gives interesting Christian perspectives on suffering without resorting to trite comments of "turn the other cheek" and "if God brings you to it, He'll bring you through it". A very worthwhile read, especially for Christians and C.S. Lewis fans.
1 John 4:10.Because God has and is all, He only loves us and is grieved by us because He chooses to.We sin not because of ignorance or inability, but because we aren't truly intending to avoid it.Lewis rejects Total Depravity because, logically, we wouldn't know our depravity if we were totally depraved, and because he sees so much goodness in human nature.The question, "Was it better for God to create than to not create?" is meaningless, because the reality that allows us to even pose the question requires that God did create.
Maybe you're trying to show me that I can make it through this in one piece because something even bigger that I would have previously thought impossible or at least insurmountable is coming up in my life.
Maybe that's the point here, at least for me." This thinking is (at least) incomplete and (at best) partly wrong (knowing me, it's probably wrong on multiple levels, but it's only part of my story so let's keep moving).Reading The Problem of Pain helped me to put together a bunch of pieces that I had previously learned and combine them with some new things hadn't quite sunk in before, and made me realize that I was focused on the wrong thing: me.
It's actually a great (although sad and disappointing) example of how denying the literal meaning of the Genesis story introduces wild inconsistencies into Christian thought, and necessitates turning to absurd speculations to fill the gaps.
His view of man's corruption is also sketchy; he even says in one place that he denies Total Depravity (from his explanation, I think that stems more from a misunderstanding of what the term means than anything else, but at best, I still disagree with him).
God does not exist for the sake of man.
Man does not exist for his own sake.
S. Lewis than other far more intelligent minds have already said but as for my personal response, I found it very thought-provoking, in such a way that I will have to read it again to really understand the depth of everything he has to say.
Yet he is wise enough not to venture answers to questions that either have no answers, answers he personally did not understand, or are beyond human understanding altogether.
I encourage all readers to check out all of Lewis' works and form their own opinions.
One of the questions many Christians hear often is, "If there is a good and omnipotent God how can He allow pain and suffering?" Here C.S.Lewis gives a cogent discussion of this "problem".
While it will not satisfy all I suppose (especially in cases where the questioner doesn't wish to be satisfied) I believe for the thinking reader there will be some insight.
I know that for most Christian believers there is a great deal of insight and and some discussion of questions that most of us have run up against.
I don't agree with everything, but still, there's a lot of good to be learned from it. I find it interesting that the more I read of Lewis's nonfiction the more I understand of his fiction.
What is the purpose of pain? C.S. Lewis examines this question and gives his interpretation of what pain tries to teach us.
If there is a God, then why is there so much suffering and pain in the world?This is a common problem brought up by atheists and C.
S. Lewis says it was a problem for him before he became Christian.
So I welcomed the premise of the book since that's a question that always stops me in my tracks.
I also was happy to see my library had it available on audio.This is one of those books that pulls no punches.
In his trademark style, Lewis applies logic, common sense, and his considerable breadth of knowledge to the question.
Very difficult work to follow, because of the language used. It not common english. For example, he overuses the word "numinious" which merely means "supernatural." Why use a word no one's familiar with?Lots of word spins. The only real meat and potatoes is that sometimes Humans lock horns with God on the issue of self-sufficiency. God does everything to destroy our self-sufficiency, so we are dependent on him alone. That was the meat and potatoes I took from the book (on page 96 of the paperback version).The rest of it, was a tough read.Wayno
Most prevalently, his belief in the Theory of Evolution permeates two chapters of this book--"The Fall of Man," and "Animal Pain." In the first, Lewis treats the Biblical account of Adam and Eve as a doctrine rather than a narrative, and posits that somewhere in the evolution of the species, mankind (in whatever number) were given souls and became "Paradisal Man." At some point, by some means, Paradisal Men fell.
He more than sufficiently answers what he calls "the problem of pain", he leaves the reader with a sense of hope and joy at better understanding the character of God. Lewis' eloquence makes this a wonderful read, however I have found that it can sometimes be difficult to follow Lewis all the time (as it can take him a while to say something) so I would listen to it on audiobook.I would definitely recommend this book, especially to younger and newer Christians, but anyone can benefit from it because it answers the question that has been asked for decades, possibly centuries: if God is good and all-powerful why is there pain?On that note, the only reason why it doesn't get five stars is because, at this point in C.S. Lewis' life, while he was a saved and devoted Christian, he still believed in evolution, and that bleeds through.
In ten chapters, he • describes the different kinds of pain, defines each type, presents human complaints and objections to why pain exists, and how a "good God" can really be good if He allows his created creatures to be subjected to pain,• presents Biblical reasons for the existence of pain,• discusses the actual benefits of the "horror" of pain, etc.He really made me think about what pain has to do with things like justice and goodness.
Maybe after I've had the chance to chew on all that I've read, I should return to give a better report of what I got out of it.However...it is a WONDERFUL book!
But then, again, every single thing I've ever read by CS Lewis has been WONDERFUL!
