https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127227.The_Human_Condition
وضع بشر اثری فلسفی نوشته هانا آرنت است که چاپ نخست آن به 1958 باز میگردد. اثر با بحثی درباره تمایز زندگی فعال و زندگی اندیشمندانه آغاز میشود. برخلاف کارل مارکس، که بر برتری بی چون و چرای زندگی فعال بر زندگی اندیشمندانه اصرار داشت، آرنت بر این باور است که از منظر فلسفی، هر دو مفهوم از کیفیت یکسانی برخوردار هستند. او سپس زندگی فعال را به سه شاخه تقسيم میکند. زحمت، کار و عمل.در ادامه، آرنت از آرمانشهر افلاطون یاد میکند و بحث را به یونان باستان میکشاند، جایی که از نظر آرنت اولین تقسیم بندی زندگی به
قلمرو خصوصی جایی بود که در آن انسان به رفع نیازهای اولیه زندگی و اموری چون غذا و سرپناه و غرایز جنسی و ضروریات زندگی می‌پرداخت که آرنت این امور را زحمت می‌نامد.
اما بر خلاف زحمت، کار آن نوع فعالیتی است که ثمره و نتیجه ماندگاری دارد و شامل تمام آن فعالیت هایی می‌شود که بشر در آن، از طبیعت، به سمت ساخته های مصنوعی حرکت میکند.بعد از تعریف زحمت و کار، آرنت به تعریف عمل یا اکشن می‌پردازد.
عمل همان فعالیتیست که انسان بر مبنای آن روابط خود با دیگران را شکل می‌دهد.در نهایت آرنت از زندگی فعال در عصر مدرن بحث می‌کند.
Arendt's intellect is intimidating to say the least, and the manner in which she launches into a discussion of the human condition in the modern age is altogether unlike anything I've ever seen before -- "unique" is certainly an understatement.
In addition to Arendt's revolutionary proposal of the vita activa (contrasted with the vita contemplativa) as broken up into the three separate areas of labor, work, and action, she also develops background arguments in each of these three categories that could have become books unto themselves.
Arendt's book is a masterpiece of modern philosophy.
Like any masterpiece, especially of philosophy, and even more especially of modern philosophy, this mistakes it very difficult to summarize.
And she finally ends with where we are at and why a reevaluation of our own humanity is now more pressing than ever (and now even more pressing than when Arendt wrote the book): our worst fears have been realized.
I recommend that everyone read this book – and ponder every word deeply.
And there is hope because, for Arendt, it is that we have not quite understood the important way in which philosophical thought is linked to human activity (of living, of making and building things and of trying to live together).
Whereas the "phenomenological turn" placed human consciousness as the source of all philosophical activity, Arendt is more realistic and pragmatic: philosophy begins with how we live.
In a way, Arendt is Nietzsche with a great heart.With "The Human Condition," Arendt surpasses her own immediate influences (Hegel, Nietzsche, Marx, Heidegger) as well as her notable peers (Sartre, Adorno, Wittgenstein, Russell).
A very unique approach to philosophy, to put it mildly.Divides human life into three spheres: labor, action, and work. Describes the evolution of these three concepts, using historical examples from philosophy. Not an easy book, but a very stimulating one.
ترجمه بسیار بد و غیر رواننصفه رها شد
While strength is the natural quality of an individual seen in isolation, power springs up between men when they act together, and vanishes the moment they disperse." Another one on power: " Power is actualized only where word and deed have not parted company, where words are not empty and deeds not brutal, where words are not used to veil intentions but to disclose realities and deeds are not used to violate and destroy but to establish relations and create new realities." This one made me think so much of Mexico, my country, because it is exactly what she says, in opposite: word and deed have parted company, with politicians saying one thing, with tragedies happening every day and not being explained, and words are empty, and deeds are brutal, with so many people disappearing, or dying every single day.
I'm afraid that I have difficulty with so much of the great intellectual powerhouses of the immediate postwar era, which is terrible, because I know they were a reasonable, humane bunch who tirelessly threw themselves towards lofty goals.
Your phenomenological approach to the work-labor distinction is admirable for its rigor, and a great many of your observations are just as cutting as they were fifty years ago.
But when you use the intellectual circles of classical Greece as an immortal standard, you're selling yourself a bit short.
I have a great respect for many classicist principles, but if you fail to recognize a degree of contingency, then the substratum of your approach is inherently flawed.
Arendt mischaracterizes a great many thinkers over the course of the book; her "labor," "work," "action," trichotomy seems only intermittently useful; it is unclear whether or not her vision of political action has ever, or could ever, exist.
Nonetheless, I couldn't escape the feeling while reading The Human Condition that something about that German experience (e.g. Heidegger) had shaped them so thoroughly that they could not escape each other, and that their political associations are more a product of personal priors and who their students were than anything particularly substantive in their thought.
I read this, or tried to, when I was 20 years old. It was completely over my head. It was assigned in a 400-level religious studies class at Indiana University which was also over my head. The class met in a pub and I was slightly intoxicated most of the time. That may not have helped my comprehension, but the prof had known Hannah Arendt personally, and he told us, "She would have approved. She preferred hard liquor and could drink more than most mortals."
What Arendt deals with here is what politics should be about -- not manufactured wedge issues but the very way we live our lives.The real strength of The Human Condition is how Arendt manages to escape the limits of conventional ideology.
In doing so this book is both an overview of Western political thought and a striking analysis of it.
Arendt reveals the political value systems so important that we don't even realize we believe them.With that said, this is still a 350 page book of philosophy, and as such is not really the most accessible thing in the world.
I would recommend having at least some backing in classical and Marxist political thought, which Arendt draws on and critiques.
This book is very deep.
Agamben has called this work "practically without continuation" in any scholarly tradition.
Besides its main thrust of the sullying of politics the book hints at and opens many lines of question in passing.
Arendt puts forth a theory of the political (action), a critique of liberal society, discussions of goodness, suicide, technology, the modern, etc.
The accusation of elitism that Arendt faces - that the rise of lower classes into politics threatens politics - is not without foundation.
However, more recent theorists such as Foucault, Agamben, and Rancière have continued to push us along this dangerous line of thought.
Arendt brought the ancient Greek philosophies and western tradition of philosophic thought to illuminate three areas of the modern human condition: labor; work; and action.
Although we seem to be more of a society of animal laborans and jobholders,than man as toolmaker or policy maker, the advent of digital media and social networking may be building a new public space for speech and thought; (the realm of human possibility...the space where people define who they are and project who they might become).
That is, perhaps the verbal and digital communications of a diverse and free public (free to speak on any number of issues) will become the space where not only are ideas born, but truths and revelations may be experienced.
The Human Condition, Hannah Arendt عنوان: وضع بشر؛ هانا آرنت، مترجم: مسعود علیا؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1389، در 448 ص، شابک: 9789643119126؛ واژه نامه، نمایه؛ موضوع: جامعه شناسی، اقتصاد، تکنولوژی، قرن 20 م
A book that is all over the place and is not an easy read. I'm not entirely sure what she was trying to attempt.
Hard to read - took forever and often had to go back and re-read passages - but truly remarkable nonetheless
Action, however, can only be performed in a public space where people meet, not as social beings their relationships mediated by things, but as political beings, individuals, each capable of action.
And this is how politics should be, for to conceive of it in any other way is to ignore human plurality and coerce individuals.Of course that means that action, as Arendt conceives it, can't happen under bourgeois democracy, nor can it happen under bureaucratic socialism, for in both instances there's no public space and it's the political representatives that act, whereas the people are merely social beings, docile and alienated.
Philosophy is not within my field of reading – I get lost in the wordiness of it, and sometimes lose my patience with the arguments when they contradict themselves or have apparent loopholes if they are applied to the practical world.That is exactly what happened with “The Human Condition”.
This began from the very first page in the prologue, where Arendt talks about “the first “step toward escape from men’s imprisonment to the earth””, which was a very simple thought that somehow I never considered, and it left a lasting impact on me.
If there were more clear and simple but truthful thoughts like this, I would’ve enjoyed the book a lot more.
This book is a good thought exercise in thinking through the categories of human activity.I'm not at all convinced though that her distinctions between labour, work and action, with their respective phenomenological roles, can really hold up as domains of actual empirical activity.
Good as an exercise in abstract conceptual distinction, but they just melt into each other as soon as you start to apply them to the world.Worse still is the insistence that "society" and "politics" can be conceived of as two sharply differentiated and mutually exclusive realms.
Giusto in questi giorni mi trovavo a discutere con amici dell'utilità della filosofia (grande trend di discussione che non ci facciamo mai mancare, soprattutto quando ci si trova a discutere con ingegneri e altri specialisti) e, beh, penso che la mia risposta a discussioni del genere d'ora in avanti sarà The Human Condition.
E le discussioni sull'utilità della filosofia non sono forse sintomo di questa de-crescita?
In The Human Condition (1958), Hannah Arendt discusses the public/private distinction with hope toward a more active political life, what she calls viva active (7).
She argues that the dividing line between private and public has become blurred because we have come to understand political realms in terms of the family (28).
She sees a "gulf" between private and public in ancient thought where people had to cross, and it touch courage to cross this gulf because one left behind concerns of only his survival (33, 36).
Arendt argues that the social is a recent category as well, one that arises because of the spreading of the private into the public (38).
still don't get how *SPOILER ALERT* thinking counts as action, ending the book with that quote from cato ("never is he more active than when he does nothing, never is he less alone than when he is by himself") seems like a weird note to end the book on. the first bit about thinking being active is understandable enough (activity =/= action for arendt), but the bit about being unalone by being by oneself isn't making sense to me in the context of arendt's philosophy
A fascinating critique of modernity and defense of politics. Parts of it are arguably prophetic. imho it's worth reading whether or not you agree with her, because Arendt raised important questions & her eloquent writing style makes it quite fun to read. It was written years ago but IMHO it can serve as an excellent philosophical justification of the occupy movement.
ثمة قلق في الترجمة، لم أكمله

After all, as the title reads, there's nothing less than 'The Human Condition' at stake in this book.
Crucial to Arendt’s account is the way in which, more than ever, the space of (political) action - in which one distinguishes oneself as an individual ‘who’, as opposed to a substitutable ‘what' - is being occluded by the increasing focus and emphasis on ‘life’; sheer survival at the expense of genuine political expression.
So while The Human Condition certainly isn’t the last word on the eponymous subject, it remains indispensable reading for anyone interested in it.
In order to lead a more political life, or “vita active” as she called it, there must be the crossing over of the private, public, and social sectors.
The constant infiltration of the private into the public has given rise to the need of the social, which is often interpreted as the political.
Arendt draws on ancient Greek thought to discuss how each sector of society was institutionalized, with ideas that have significantly shaped our modern societies.
It defines the root of the problems that cause many of the political and social problems of our day in age.
Hannah Arendt retrouve la distinction oubliée entre travail (pénible, processus vital), fabrication (création avec risque de retour au processus vital) et l'action (proprement humaine, accomplir son être-dans-le-monde).
Elle insiste plutôt que la fin de l'homme réside plutôt dans l'action, c'est-à-dire dans la formation d'un monde, et dans les relations avec autrui.Elle retrouve également la distinction entre domaine privé et domaine public (présente chez Aristote, et chez les Grecs en général) et dit que l'émergence du social, de la société à tout confondu.Le domaine public est le seul dans lequel nous pouvons exercer notre liberté (basée sur une inégalité).
Lo externo también ha declinado en términos de una dialéctica moderna muy diferente, que define la relación entre lo público y lo privado en la teoría política liberal.
Los espacios públicos de la sociedad moderna, que constituyen el lugar de la política liberal, tienden a desaparecer en el mundo posmoderno.
De acuerdo con la tradición liberal, el individuo moderno, en su hogar, en sus espacios privados, considera lo público como su afuera.
El exterior es el lugar adecuado para la política, donde la acción del individuo se expone a la presencia de otros y busca reconocimiento.Pensamos aquí en la noción de Hannah Arendt de la política, articulada en The Human Condition.
Womyn can write 2.0: Jewish BogalooNow for some quotes:"Surely Cartesian doubt has showed its efficiency nowhere more disastrously and irrevocably than in the realm of religious belief, where it was introduced by Pascal and Kierkegaard, the two greatest religious thinkers of modernity. (For what undermined the Christian faith was not the atheism of the 18th century or the materialism of the 19th, their arguments are frequently vulgar and for the most part easily refutable by traditional theology, but the doubting concern with salvation of genuinely religious men in whose eyes the traditional Christian content and promise had become absurd)".
