https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10916.The_Pact
I'm reviewing it for the sake of Lorelle since it is the book that drew me into the lovely book club that I survived (or survived me) for several fun years.To sum up, I wanted to tell the main character's girlfriend (I've forgotten all of their names, mercifully), to "get over yourself!!" I'm not giving anything away when I reveal that the "pact" of the title involves her asking her boyfriend to help her commit suicide.
It almost frightens me to realize how little sympathy I have for someone who (it is later revealed) has a somewhat plausible explanation for her dark thoughts.
This author is a master of making you believe in a story that makes exactly no sense and making you care about characters who behave like exceptional idiots*.
She has magical powers, like a Jedi.PPS to English teachers--carefully note the blatant thievery of the foreshadowing scene in Of Mice and Men where Candy can't kill his dog.
Steinbeck is rolling over in his grave.*Edit from my original review, which said "behave like retards," and a couple of commenters took offense, perhaps rightfully so.
I'm an English teacher and ought to know to be more careful with my word choices.
However, The Pact has now completely and successfully put me off all/any Picoult novels.There are so many reasons why I hated this book; I find it hard to pick one major thing that irritated me.
Fair enough, Picoult did *attempt* to show us the repercussions of suicide with friends and family, but the strongest point of the novel was Chris describing (on trial) the death of Emily, his lover.Number two -- Emily, who had suffered a form of sexual assault at a very young age, never deals with the issue.
How did he explain the way they could be in a locker room, or underwater, or in the piney woods..., but as long as [she] was with him, he was at home?""He tried to pretend that he did not feel the weight of her grief, lying between them like a fitfull child, so solid that he could not reach past it to touch her.""She closed her eyes while he touched her with all the care in the world, and she started to heal.""Being a mother gives you a singular sort of vision, a prism through which you can see your child with many different faces all at once.
I felt it was worthy of three stars rather than two solely because I completely fell in love with the main character, Chris Harte.
The basic plot of this book was two children, Chris Harte and Emily Gold, growing up together as neighbors and best friends.
By the age of 17, Emily was dead and Chris was on trial for her murder due to an apparent suicide pact gone awry.
At times, I felt that the maturity of Chris and Emily's relationship was extremely unbelievable.
Most importantly, I felt that Chris and Emily were not a good couple.
Melanie and Michael Gold and Gus and James Harte have been neighbors and friends from the time Melanie and Gus were pregnant with their first children.
The kids, Emily Gold and Chris Harte, grew up together, became a couple, and are now high school seniors preparing for college.
The book moves back and forth between the past and present, going all the way back to the time the Golds and Hartes first met as two young married couples.
During the course of the story we see how each person in the Gold and Harte family deals with the tragedy, separately and together.
It got to the point that I wondered if I read the same book as everyone else because I don’t know how anyone could have read this book and not taken issue with a very glaring problem that happens many times throughout the story.
While reading through the aftermath there are various points where Picoult takes the reader back in time starting when Chris and Emily were born, three months apart, and proceeds to tell their whole life story through flashbacks every 20 pages or so.
It would have been a much better story if that had never happened between Chris and Emily and I probably would have actually The Pact a lot more.
Gosh, I want to hate her for writing books like this...Throughout the whole book, I was thinking about what rating to give it, because there were parts that blew my mind and others that were just very slow, yet significant for the storyline.
I even caught myself thinking: "Ha, she forgot to mention that" but then it happens on the last page.
;)The end of "The Pact" convinced me again though that I can't give this book less than 5 stars.
The ending was really unexpected for me.
Well, not the actual revelation, but how it turned out in the end.
At the time, reading her can feel intellectually stimulating as her books raise interesting psychological questions.However, there's something about Jodi Picoult's books that makes them fall short of actual literature, no matter how stimulating and readable they are in the moment.
For example, the enmeshment of the two families, and its effect on Chris and Emily's relationship, was an interesting topic which had the potential to be dealt with more deeply.
I'd still read Jodi over a Harlequin any day, but unfortunately that's not saying a whole lot.
She carried this pain for years and never told her parents, friends, teachers or even Chris, her soul mate.
Emily was a talented artist, loved by her parents, Chris, her friends and teachers.
The teenagers families were once so close and now Emily's mother becomes bitter and vindictive and her father looks for comfort from Chris' mother.
Chris must change in order to survive in prison and to live with his decision to help with the suicide.He struggles to go on with his life and to find some belief to cling to.
In the two books I've read now, Jodi Picoult sets out to deliver a big twist that will knock us on our asses.
We know the shark's going to take the girl's leg off, the fun is in the expectation of when and how.The Pact: A Love Story sets up a suicide pact between a pair of young lovers, but only one of them takes a bullet and the other ends up on trial for murder.
We know things about each of them that they choose to hide from the people in their lives, truths that are never revealed to anyone in the story.
After you've read a few Jodi Picoult books, you come to expect certain things.
The defendant bobs and weaves as news of Emily's pregnancy comes to light, and plenty of red herrings are thrown into the mix.
I felt like there just wasn't quite ENOUGH drama in this book...
I did not believe that Emily's reasons for killing herself were sufficiently grave.
And I couldn't believe that NO ONE -- not the police, not his parents, not the lawyer, no one -- asked Chris what really happened that night.
Stilll, with Picoult's wonderful writing, this book is still worth reading.
Very hard book to put down and will leave you experiencing a wide arrange of emotions.
I did not have the whole it is like Romeo and Juliet as many readers/reviewers mention, as I am not a huge fan of that story (love Shakespeare, but not that plot).
Instead it was like a love story with no true happily ever after.
There is no way for a happily ever after in this book but trust me, it is acceptable to the reader.
Overall, a powerful read that will leave you asking yourself questions about life, death, love, and suffering afterwards.
As opposed to the author implying, "here is a despicable example of a woman, one who gets pregnant and decides that she must kill herself rather than deal with it, even though she seemed to have reasonable and supportive family and friends, so don't be like that!" OK, OK, so she was depressed; fine, I get it.
She couldn't even kill herself by herself!
I kept reading all the way to the end anyway, because despite the lousy writing I was rather curious to find out who did the shooting...did she kill herself, or did the boyfriend do it?
I felt that there must be some interesting reason, some clever twist, to make this whole disaster of a book worth reading.
I bought this book merely because a girl in a bookstore approach me and asked me if I would like to buy her copy off her.
She said she loved the book and she wanted money to buy another one of Jodi Picoult's books.
I said yes, because hey its not every day that someone approaches me in a bookstore and I like a bit of spontaneity.
I fell in love with the book at the first page, and promptly fell in love with chris probably less than ten pages later.
The PactJodi PicoultEvery time I read a Jodi Picoult story, she just shreds my heart and leaves me sobbing.
Emily and Chris have been best friends since they were born.
Their parents are next door neighbors too and best friends as well.
Be prepared not to do anything else until you finish reading this heart breaking story!
If you have never read Jodi Picoult, THE PACT is a great introduction to her heart tugging writing.
The whole time I was reading I was screaming "Tell someone already!" I get the fact that they love each other but if you love someone and they start saying they want to kill themselves, tell someone!
She pretty much ruined his life, and was very selfish for wanting him to help her commit suicide, and not telling him she was pregnant.!!!????
(DID NOT LIKE EMILY)Chris...about two thirds thru the book is when I started feeling bad for him....his emotions, life, everything, was being played and toyed with by Emily.
I wonder if he did, if things would have ended up okay, or if she would have went ahead and done it alone?When I first started I thought it was about a suicide PACT...but really, it was a different PACT alltogether.I think Emily pressed Chris' finger and shot herself.
I already loved Jodi Picoult from My Sister's Keeper, The Tenth Circle, and Nineteen Minutes.
I don't know what to say about the book without sounding hokey...it is a great story about teen love and commitment.
I am always amazed at how deeply I feel I know Jodi's characters.
Right now Chris is sticking in my mind and how often I just wanted to shake him and say "Tell someone!
I felt just as helpless reading the book as I did being a teenager.
I want to scream to all the teenagers - "WE REALLY DO GET IT!!

There were parts were I wished I could just jump into the book and stop the characters from making all the wrong decisions.
But things take a turn for the worst when Emily is killed at the age of 17 and all fingers point to Chris.
While Chris's parents are willing to accept this because explanation as having a child who is suicidal is much better than believing they have raised a murderer, Emily's parents much rather believe that their daughter is a victim rather than the alternative.
As the story progresses the reader gets further insight in to the relationship Chris and Emily shares.
This book wasn't as good as I'd expected, but what disappointed me more than anything was how much of a jerk Emily was to Chris.
Through memories, it's seen that Emily used Chris as a scapegoat for all her wrongdoings in childhood, like stealing a sex book from the local library and drinking alcohol.
And then she kills herself and gets Chris implicated in her murder...
and it's implied that she hates just about everyone and everything, and that perhaps Chris was just her escape, not her friend.This is one of those few, far and in-between cases where the film is better than the book...
Jodi Picoult delivers another excellent novel about family relationships, friendships, courtroom drama, a love story, suicide and so much more. This certainly is a page turner and one that could lead to a great bookclub selection. Picoult's novels are emotionally draining because she skillfully writes about problems that exist in society. 4 stars
Es war super! Erschreckend, gut durchdacht, fesselnd, in die Irre führend, anfixend!
I'll admit that Picoult can tell a story and keep me interested, but she has some seriously annoying writing tics that almost made me stop reading.
If only I had a dollar for every time I had to read one of these trite phrases.
Also, someone needs to re-edit this book because I found errors (like, saying he instead of she).Yes, I realize this isn't the type of substantive review that will help anyone, but I had to rant.(Ben, if you are reading this, I know you are rolling your eyes.
They loved it, but you know teens, they like the dark stuff.The Pact: A Love Story, by Jodi PicoultWe read this book as a part of our high school book club.
I had about 8 students, 7 girls and one boy read this book with my co-sponsor and I.
Jodi Picoult does a good job of creating characters, and allowing the reader to see the connections between human beings when such a disaster occurs.The book left me wondering, how would I handle it?
I am currently reading another book by Picoult called My Sister’s Keeper.
It was actually a pretty sad book.
Talks about suicide pretty much the whole book.
My favorite murder mystery/love story.
I loved it.2017 Side note update- I was thinking about this book today and how much I loved it.
I was looking for a book to read on the 12 hour drive home and thought I'd give it a try.
So anyways this book was SO good and SO sad.
Its about a girl that commits suicide.
So the whole book they are piecing together her story and reasons.
I just loved everything about it except for the sad part of suicide.
For me her best book. Loved the way she split the story between the girl's side of view and the boy's and how even if she shows you in the end what really happened you still walk away unsure of who was right.
I thought Plain Truth was my number one, but after reading The Pact, I've found a new number one!
At first I wasn't sure that I would like the way the book was laid out with the "Now" & "Then", switching back and forth.
I loved going back "Then" because it gave you the truth and a walk through their life and how they became to where they are "Now".
I really enjoyed this book.
I can't get into everything I'd like in this review without spoiling anything for other people.
This is a must read book!
This book, as my favorite of Jodi's, stands in for the whole Picoult oeuvre, which I read mostly over the course of one summer and which is the proving ground for the split in my reading personality -- snob vs.
storylover.
Picoult is sentimental, always takes on at least one Issue, and pretty much smacks you at the end of each chapter, if not each section, with pithy Theme Sentences, but she manages to avoid after-school specialiness almost totally (no, I don't know how that's possible).
But she is more on the dramatic, tragic side, while Liane Moriarty takes it with much more humor.In this book, Picoult touches so many important issues, the strength of love, between lovers, between parents and children.
But also, the notion of truth, in court, and outside of it.Can you love somebody too much?
And more than that, do the court, the judge, the juries, actually care and want the real truth?I can't give this book anything under 5 stars.
This book is perfect, the writing, the story, the believability, the research that Picoult has put into this.
