https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552669.Bring_on_the_Empty_Horses
There are hundreds of books about the cinema during the studio system, but somehow Mr. Niven's tales are the best.
His "Missy" revelation is startling, as it details the mental breakdown of Vivien Leigh (though he never mentions her name) and illustrates the high level of stress and expectations placed upon the studio stars of that era.I rarely read a book more than once, but I couldn't resist picking this up again when the sun was blazing, the pool was calling, and I had just finished a long walk past some of the glorious desert abodes of the folks who had faces back then.Book Season = Summer (find some shade)
When asked which biography/memoir I best prefer, I am unable to hold back my admiration of David Niven's work here in Bring on the Empty Horses.
It is Empty Horses that has earned my love and adoration.Niven, above all things, is a storyteller; and his recountment of the Hollywood heyday (essentially the '30s through the 50's) is magical exploration of an era that was at once special and something impossible to mimic.
Niven really does collect a panoply of stories and, in effect, writes a biography of Hollywood itself.I cannot recommend Bring on the Empty Horses highly enough.
I have read and re-read Niven's Bring On The Empty Horses and The Moons a Balloon.
My sister-in-law introduced me to these books (and many more).
You see, she had also gone blind, losing the ability to read, and having to listen to audio tapes on an old fashioned cassette player, which wasn't, for her, the same enjoyment of reading black type on white pages.
Those books, with dogeared and yellowed pages, disappeared after Lea passed away.
I hope they went to someone who appreciated them, and that they brought as much enjoyment to them as they did to me and my sister-in-law.
Niven must have been the ideal guest. He was a naturally-gifted storyteller with a wonderful, often self-deprecating, sense of humour.
David Niven's second book of memoirs (1974, USA pbk.
In it, Niven focuses not on his life arc but his experiences in Hollywood from the mid-Thirties to around 1960, with a sizable interruption due to his soldiering in World War Two. Written in much the same lightly flippant, entertaining style, he focuses on personalities such as Louis B.
Personally, I wish there had been more about the filming of THE MOON IS BLUE (1953) and PLEASE DON'T EAT THE DAISIES (1960, of which not a word is said).
Lovers of Hollywood lore -- you know who you are!
David Niven was primarily an actor,but in my opinion he was a better writer.This is one of the most interesting memoirs I have read.Niven has a great sense of humour,this is Hollywood history at its funniest.His encounters with screen legends Bogart,Flynn,Cary Grant and many others provide hours of first class entertainment.There is also the mysterious "Missie",could this be Marilyn Monroe ? As one reviewer put it,this book is "scintillating and uproarious."
It's many years since I read this, but I remember it had me laughing out loud.
You spend an entire evening and talk into the night recounting their mis-adventures, hilarious scrapes and some deliciously engaging anecdotes whose veracity you can never be 100% certain about.A book about Hollywood during it's golden years (1930's & 40's), it manages to tread a very fine line between giving everything away and yet respecting the privacy of those who were Niven's friends and colleagues.
Though certain stories are doubtless exaggerated, Niven manages to convey the essence of what it meant to be a player in the Hollywood of the 30's.
i have read this book at least a dozen times, and always enjoy it. i definitely have the feeling of being let in on the secrets of old hollywood whenever i read it, though i do tend to skip past the sections about "missy" a pseudonymous starlet that niven uses to highlight the frailty of a star like marilyn monroe, or judy garland because i'm very familiar with it now, and it's a strange little narrative in the midst of a most fascinating memoir of the golden age.
This book will never go "back" to the charity shop, the photo's are enough- Garbo, Flynn, Gable, Dietrich, Bacall, and more... but an insite into this great name dropping book. Niven is filming "Charge of the Light Brigade" with Errol Flynn, director Mike Curtiz (Hungarian) "Flynn and I doubled up with laughter. "You lousy bums," Curtiz shouted, "you and your stinking language...you think I know fuck nothing...well, let me tell you - I know FUCK ALL!" Read the Moon is a balloon first
David Niven must have been a wonderful person to sit and chat with. I read this over and over again in junior and high schools.
Great stories of Hollywood.
What a wonderfully civilized human! Loved the tone of this book. Of course the stories about the rich, famous and beautiful from "back then" was fascinating.
I liked it, it was gossipy and fun. Who knew David Niven was so present during the Golden Age, I thought as I was reading it; turns out he inserted himself into many other people's stories to 'protect their privacy', which somewhat lessens the resonance of a memoir. But this isn't really a memoir, anyway, it's more of a bunch of fairly disconnected Hollywood anecdotes, some quite compelling. But they did feel rather disconnected, especially the segments at the end that went for just a few pages each, again and again.A fun read, still. But hardly major.
David Niven is one of my favorite Old Hollywood memoirists. Bring on the Empty Horses is less about him and more about his acting peers. These stories run from tragic ("Our Missie" - about Vivien Leigh) to fanciful (adventures with Errol Flynn). Niven often writes with warmth and great humor. He could spin a yarn better than anyone. I loved this book but am only giving it 4 stars because I like his autobiography The Moon's A Balloon sightly better and would give that one the extra star.Recommended for any classic film fan.
This isn't really a memoir, so much as a collection of stories about anything and everything from David Niven's years in Hollywood, specifically during the '30s and '40s. He manages to strike a great balance between dishing out gossip and staying respectful of people who were clearly important to him. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for funny anecdotes, touching stories, and interesting characters from the Golden Age of Hollywood - it's a great read.
Niven's personal reminisces and anecdotes about the 'golden age' or Hollywood (30s through 50s). Many funny stories, but the overall impact is of a hollow, empty place. All the women were 'stunningly beautiful' and all the men were 'everyone's favourite fellow', and every story involved vast quantities of scotch or gin. Went away feeling quite sorry for them all, really. 2.5/5
This autobiography read likes a desription of the classic Hollywood of the 30's to the 50's and is informative but most of all it is fun to read. This is one of those books you have to read if you are a fan of old Hollywood. Otherwise you miss out on a great and funny book that has been written by one of the humble and funniest men in cinema ever.
Absolutely the best recounting of OLD HOLLYWOOD and it's brightest stars! I picked this up at a library book sale with no expectations and now I feel so lucky that I did! I'm excited to read the other 2 books he penned. His style is so witty and fun and he has great memories of so many of my favorite film stars of all time!
One of the first Hollywood memoirs I ever read and one of the few that has stuck with me. It's so witty and naughty with plenty of anecdotes about that eternally dysfunctional little burg called Hollywood. Laugh-out-loud funny in many spots.
Possibly the best autobiography I have ever read and I have read many.It is surprising really as I am not a fan of David Niven and did not know a great deal about him prior to reading this book.It is very funny at times and the book flows like it was written by a seasoned writer.
Hilarious and written with deftly readable prose, this book fed my insatiable hunger for quips and anecdotes from the Hollywood golden age. An eclectic cast of flawed characters presented by an unassuming narrator. Fantastic.
An entertaining and intelligent (if occasionally dated) depiction of glamorous old Hollywood, told by a participant. Niven's tales are full of compassion, humour, and self-effacing modesty, sprinkled here and there with sly winks and grins. Good holiday reading.
Not, in my opinion, quite as good as 'The Moon's A Balloon', but wonderfully entertaining nontheless.

Instead it is filled with charming anecdotes of his experiences with huge stars like Errol Flynn, Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Ginger Rogers and Cary Grant to name a few.I am a huge fan of film history and Niven’s intimate connection with certain actors, actresses, directors, producers and writers makes his memoir not just a flippant account of Hollywood gossip.
David Niven had a long career, but I was surprised, reading this, at how long.
DeMille at the beginning of his career, and his last movies were made in 1983.
He knew everybody, and has some great stories to tell about all of them.
I know he wasn't entirely scandal-free himself, but reading this gave me a great appreciation of him as a person.
I especially like that, while coming off as a professional, and a compassionate person of true class, he also wasn't afraid to tell it like it was when people were awful.
Por fortuna me topé con este libro (en su edición en castellano, con la extraña traducción de "Mis años locos en Hollywood") y debo decir que es una joya.
Y a través de estas páginas el lector se sumergirá de lleno en lo que fue la edad de oro de la meca del cine, lo hará a través de una visión muy humana, en ocasiones irónica, en la que las estrellas serán amigos y compañeros de aventuras.Una lectura muy recomendable que por desgracia en la edición en castellano de Torres de papel está plagada de faltas ortográficas y errores que me hacen imposible darle las cinco estrellas que (seguramente) se merece.
Loved this book as well as its companion, The Moon's a Balloon.
Niven is a gifted and born storyteller.
This offering focuses on his Hollywood days and the names drop like snow in a blizzard.
If is a fun read.
If you like older films, this is for you.
Once you start either book, you will be surprised when you reach the end to see the clock, it will feel that no time has passed at all.
I highly recommend even if you are not a Niven fan in particular, the skilled writing and charming anecdotes will draw on in.

