https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1161498.The_Man_of_Bronze
I read them all and started collecting, in part because Doc was cooler than cool, and in part because I could score them for 50 cents a piece at Bonanza Books and Comics in my hometown.
I still take down one each year and forget that I'm 40+ and thick.
I've read other stuff from the period, and Doc towers over all of them.
Also a neat glimpse of what a high-tech hero looked like 75 years ago.
To borrow one of Dent's favorite words, they'll be superamalgamated.
Still, that stylistic nitpick within couldn't be permanently smothered by Doc's brawny, bronzy, ripply muscles.I'd only ever seen the Ron Ely movie way back when on VHS and had a vague notion that it was based on comic books or something.
Somehow I think that today we'd be hearing about the ebil liberal agenda from certain quarters.* The sheer Marty Stuishness of Doc. Holy crap, is this guy awesome and perfect and knows everything and can do anything and is modest as a maiden about it.
I'm going to start calling my hands "lunch shovels" from now on.* Doc's muscles.
With so many stories coming out every week (Upton Sinclar was known to write 8,000 words a day, seven days a week for the pulps), authors had to attract and keep readers.The Doc Savage books are renowned for their wide-ranging creativity, where no idea was unwelcome.
However, the tropes, plots, and characterization of the pulps carried through into the new stories, and even if most Superman and Batman fans have never heard of Savage, the adventures they read or watch each month are not new.
Doc Savage, supreme adventurer, and his five science bros have their first of many exploits.
Savage is given his mission and his resources in this first story, effectively making it an origin story while still focusing on the formula plot.
There were the predicted racial and gender issues that you would expect from a macho men's novel of the age, but it seemed like Dent made a concerted effort to create an educated and culturally sensitive hero in Doc. It's easy to see how he became a literary ancestor of Superman.
The writing style itself is choppy and slightly juvenile, and I tended to not even bother remembering which of Doc's friends had which scientific specialties.
He swims faster than Michael Phelps and runs quicker than Usain Bolt.
The novel is non-stop action and running around by Do and his crew (5 men, all the top of their field (archeology, geology, law, chemistry, engineering) only to be surpassed by their fearless leader, and all brawny to boot).
"Alongside Renny, Doc was like dynamite alongside gunpowder"p56.
"Monk emitted a great howl.
Monk's fights were always noisy, unless there was a reason for them to be quiet.
Like a gladiator of old, Monk fought best when the racket was loudest."
They are replints of the Doc Savage pulp magazine--The Man of Bronze was originally printed in 1933.If you have ever read any pulp magazines you know what to expect--slam bang adventure, hack writing and little character development.However, the orignal Doc Savage Magazine ran from 1933 to 1949--16 years.
It captured it readers by being exciting adventure and nothing more.Super-scientist 'Doc " Savage and his five assistants roam the globe finding lost cities, conquering villians and helping those in distress.If you ever see one fo these in a used bookstore, you might want to read it to see what Doc Savage is all about.
I wish I had the hard cover, I got a stinky paperback version from a used book store.I'm not going to lie, this book was in many ways completely retarded.
He has a team of 5 guys who are masters of their fields (but not as masterful as Doc!) that are basically kidnap bait and people for Doc to talk to in an effort to further the thin plot.
The plot though, is fucking awesome, with a lost race of Mayans, assassination attempts, and Doc going bat shit crazy taking out dozens of guys in seconds when he's not masterfully figuring out medical treatments.
One of the great pulp heroes that influenced the first generation of comic heroes.
Doc Savage being a nearly perfect specimen of humanity, lacking in a tragic or traumatic past yet like Batman later, he molds himself through study and training in his Fortress of Solitude (later lifted wholesale for Superman).
This is a fast paced pulp story paced well, with some clever bits, the only complaint being Doc and his men are too perfect, too powerful.
I thought it a solid start, recommended if you like pulp storytelling.
This one started it all. I read about 20 of the series as a kid and even had a family dog named Doc in honor of Doc Savage. Pulp and brainless, but the perfect antidote when the need to read is there and not in the mood for 1000 page complexity.
I read virtually all the Doc Savage series when they were reprinted in the 1970. Masterpieces of the pulp fiction genre.
I had higher expectations re-reading this one, based on vague recollections of loving it as a kid. The plot is a wild ride and a lot of fun, full of twists and bends. It's just that Clark Savage -- the prototype for Superman -- is just a little too perfect to be an interesting character.
I love the idea of Doc Savage.A man trained from birth to build his mind and body to perfection, in order to pursue a life of adventure and righting wrongs.
In trying to re-read as an adult, inspired by a Facebook friend's recent sharing of many of the great book cover images painted by James Bama, I find I just can't do it.
And I will spin my own Doc Savage adventures in my head, where they will be mercifully short and feature great special effects, and perhaps guest appearances by Indiana Jones and The Shadow.But with God as my witness, I will never try to read one of these novels again.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
There are some books that just can't be rated or reviewed objectively.
I'd be looking for SF books.
Oh...and Bantam paperbacks of Doc Savage.
For fifty cents you got a world of adventure.
Now it's been a long time since I was 12 years old.
The adventures are spectacular.
It's hunting through shelves stuffed with musty old paperbacks hoping to find one you don't have.
It doesn't matter if the plot has holes.
It doesn't matter if the characters are paper thin.
It doesn't matter if the dialogue is hokey.
Some books are always five stars.
No one should read a pulp adventure novel expecting anything more than a quick, fun read—and Lester Dent (writing as Kenneth Robeson) delivers one.
Pulp authors worked fast and trod a well-worn path travelled by hundreds of other writers telling thousands of similar stories.
I recently read that Shane Black, writer and director of the popular film “Iron Man 3,” has signed to make a new Doc Savage movie.
At this early stage, who can say whether the film will actually make it into production, but is it possible that we are on the eve of a Doc Savage renaissance?
The writing style here is juvenile and at times, hard to read for it's pure awkwardness.
But the plot is highly imaginative which was the reason, even as a kid, I kept coming back to this well time after time to drink in more of Doc's adventures.
I'm not sorry that I re-read this book after so many years, and I will probably partake of another one in the series some time later this year.
But unless you are a kid or have a strong hankering for Doc Savage and Associates, feel free to skip this book.
Doc Savage, for those who don't know, is a brilliant physician/surgeon, scientist, adventurer and all-around superman.
In this, his first adventure (which I read decades ago but decided to read again), his father has just been murdered, leading Doc and his gang of scientist/adventurers to Central America, to find the killer as well as claim Doc's inheritance of gold, though there are others who will do anything to keep him from reaching that goal.
Make no mistake, this is not great literature, but it is a fun, fast read for those who enjoy pulp fiction.
I think fans of Indiana Jones would enjoy this book.
Doc Savage is a childhood favourite and I've just recently hauled out the 5 volumes of reprints put out by Golden Press in the mid-70s.
There are actually six in the set, but I must have misplaced one of them.Like many reviewers, I vacillated between giving this one 4 or 5 stars.
I went with 4 stars mainly because the author uses the same descriptive words over and over again.Example: one of the main bad guys is "swarthy", which he uses to describe that character every single time he is mentioned.Were there no synonyms for "swarthy" back then?Besides that minor complaint, this is all out action and fun.
Doc Savage- Man of Bronze How delightful. Spoiler alerts near the end… The Doc Savage (dozens and dozens of) adventures were published in the 30’s and 40’s in pulp fiction magazines. I had the great privilege to devour them when they were re-issued in the 70s as short novels. How my single mother of 4 boys, working double shifts as a waitress, kept me supplied with these novels is a mystery to me, but there’s a “Love of a Mother” story in there somewhere as new issues endlessly came out every fe
Spoiler alerts near the end…	The Doc Savage (dozens and dozens of) adventures were published in the 30’s and 40’s in pulp fiction magazines.
Doc Savage is, for the time period of their publishing, a high tech superman, batman, or high tech Tarzan (all logically explained with the terrific sciences of the 30’s and 40s’).
There are tons of these ‘era’ jargon… hip for the day type things that can still be enjoyed with tongue in cheek, but were advanced for their time.POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT *** STOP HERE, READ THE NOVEL INSTEAD *** 	This is the kick off novel for the Doc Savage series of novels.
Doc Savage is one of those heroes who's a little too big for his adventures. This is the only one I've actually read, but from what I understand he has this same level of invincible-ness in every one of his exploits. It's not subtle and it's not accidental, the story reminds the reader time and again that Doc is the greatest, the strongest, the smartest, the fastest, and the most likeable. Clark Savage Jr. is the kind of hero who will get out of a jam by bending steel, changing his pulse rate,
Doc Savage is backed by his talented friends, “The Fabulous Five”, who are all tops in their fields, but never quite as good as Doc. Some of this group manages to distinguish themselves, others I assume will shine more in later books.
What's important about them is that they add dialogue and human foibles (you know, like the side characters in Disney stuff) and aren't as good at fighting, so Doc has someone to rescue.
Doc is overpowered, so it's only right he be shot at a lot and that villains concoct fiendish plots to discredit him and get his friends arrested.
I guess it's a little more surprising to say i still love the film even recognising it's many faults.I'm also a fan of Pulp fiction so this was probably going to be a book i'd enjoy.
In fact it wouldn't be surprising to find out that Doc was an inspiration for both of these comic book characters.While the writing itself only merits a 3 star review i'd love to give this a 4 star review for the fantastic unabridged audio podcast from my discovery of the month 'Uvula Audio'(www.uvulaaudio.com), read by James J.
Doc Savage, the Man of Bronze!
By flexing his muscles, doing math problems, and carefully listening and smelling for a couple hours every morning, he has perfected his body, mind, and senses to superhuman levels!
There is no character development (Doc Savage is already perfect, after all!) and exposition is clumsily dumped in your lap ("Hey evil boss, remind us henchmen what your evil plan is again?").
If you would like to read a story about a man that picks up bad guys and uses them as weapons against other bad guys, you will enjoy this.
A more perfect physical specimen does not exist.
Not only does he possess a perfect physical form, he is also the most keen mind of his generation, being an expert in every field he has taken the time to study.Doc is one of the greatest pulp heroes ever, because he has a superior moral code.
It's a pure adventure tale in which Doc and his five friends, all the top men in their respected field, surpassed only by Doc himself, find themselves in cliffhanger after cliffhanger until the whole thing is resolved in a thrilling climax.Better pulp fare you will not find.
I have to pick up a Doc Savage every now and then to remind myself how substandard the writing really is and how mechanically each story clings to a formula.
The series tries to have it both ways: have a supercompetent hero figure and put that hero into extreme danger.
It never quite works out--the reader never really buys that Doc Savage is actually in danger.
The situation self-resets every time.If you have read one Doc Savage, you have very nearly read them all.This was not the origin story I was expecting.
The gang is already together and we see nothing of Savage's early days.
Wow!
What a wild ride!
This was my first introduction to The Man of Bronze, Doc Savage, and I'm so glad that I chose to start with this volume instead of jumping into the middle of the series!
This was actually loaned to me by a friend who had commented that if I enjoyed The Shadow, I should really give Doc Savage a try.
I like different things about the different series, but I really enjoyed the sense of high adventure in this book.
And Doc's cast of cohorts makes the story even more fun.
You know I wish I liked Doc Savage better.
I read one, don't like it much, but when time passes I sort of forget how bad it was and pick up another.
But this was one of the worst.
the Doc Savage books often have great titles, start off with an interesting villany, and create a certain amount of atomsphere.
But they just can't maintain it because the writing is so "ham"-handed and bad.
I bet if these books had been written at a slower pace where the author could care about the language some of them would have been really good.
This is another book that I was given to read by Tom to read. I didn't know much about Doc Savage but I had read about it when I researched graphic novels.12/30: Just finished this one. It was put aside many times over the past months or so because there were other books that I had to read for teen book award committee or book club meetings but I liked it and would recommend it to anyone in search of an old-fashioned action story.
When Clark Savage, Jr. returns from his Fortress of Solitude, in the Arctic Circle. He learns of the death of his farther and is nearly assassinated by a "red-fingered" warrior from an ancient Central American civilization long thought to have disappeared. Doc Savage and his friends travel to the Central American country of Hidalgo to search for the inheritance that Doc's father bequeathed him.
true this book should be terrible. The concept is absurd but not in a good way. But it's pulp, it's meant to be like that. Once you get past that and decide to just enjoy it as it is, it's a fun ride. Take it with a pinch of salt and read it with a wry grin.
A great adventure that cracks along.On the negative side, some of the phraseology reads as very dated, but imagine that it's an old b&w movie and its sins are forgiven.Also, read the description of Doc in chapter one; very homoerotic, though unintentionally so I imagine!
