https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7879725-call-mr-fortune
He was more at his ease with the world than a man has a right to be at thirty-five."There's a good deal of humor in the stories, and Reggie appears to take very little seriously.
For example, in the first story, "The Archduke's Tea," Reggie is called in to treat Archduke Maurice.
In another of the stories, Reggie very easily deals with a murderer who tries to kill him - and the murderer ends up killing himself instead.
"The Hottentot Venus" and "The Archduke's Tea" are the weakest of the lot, but the other stories are quite good.
This is fairly early Bailey, and not as polished as his stories later became. BUT it is also the book with stories that introduce regular series favorites. Not only does Reggie Fortune start his crime-solving career, but he also meets Lomas, Inspector Bell, his chauffeur Sam, and even the future Mrs. Fortune. Well worth it for fans.
This is a collection of short stories about a British physician and surgeon, Reginald Fortune. I am not a lover of short stories but Reginald Fortune is better in small doses. There is not much character development going on here, we have to take the author at his word that solving crimes is fairly easy for Reggie. The mysteries solved are good and Reggie is not always right which adds to the enjoyment of the book.
Excellent anthology of stories.
I can see some potential in this character and plan to read more of Bailey's work.
Synopsis: the first collection of short stories about Reggie Fortune. He acts as an assistant to Scotland Yard.
C. Bailey book they may wonder why his name is not well remembered even by those who have a particular liking for English fiction written in the “golden era” of murder mysteries.
Fortune is able to solve cases because the police are incompetent: Fortune is aware of information he does not share with them and occasionally he simply intuits the truth.
They follow Fortune about as he inspects the likely scene of the murder.
‘There could be,’ said Reggie gravely, and led the way.” Yet, in comparison to such incompetence Fortune is still able to shine only dimly given Bailey’s leaden prose and incoherent plotting.


Do you need a second opinion on this book? Visit and explore www.oceanpearlbooks.wordpress.com. OceanPearl Books endeavors to provide well-informed book reviews, business readings, parenting tips, and consulting services for our clients worldwide. And it's all for Free!OceanPearl Books - Book ReviewMr. Fortune is a doctor who’s medical genius aids the Scotland Yard in solving mysteries.Fortune’s deductions prove to be deadly in breaking a case.This book is available for FREE at http://manybooks.net/titles/baileyhco....
This book is ably described by the  Classic Mysteries podcast and that's what caused me to grab this from my local library. Mr. Fortune is actually a doctor, a pretty fair doctor but an absolutely excellent detective. He doesn't cavil about meting out his own sense of justice which is interesting. The stories are short and to the point. I probably won't seek out any of the author's other works but this one was worth reading.
3.5 stars. The mysteries themselves in these short stories are fairly lightweight (the last, I think, was the most complex, though I did figure most of it out for myself before the end), but the characters and dialogue are sprightly and entertaining (I particularly like Superintendent Bell), even if the style is occasionally a bit choppy. The idea of a doctor as a detective is intriguing, though the impact is diminished a little by having Reggie apparently cease practicing after just a couple stories in order to assist Scotland Yard full-time.
In the autumn I like to read the golden age detective stories, and Bailey is a new author for me. The stories are neat pieces, reminiscent of Chesterton, and Mr. Fortune is an entertaining detective, something like Lord Peter Wimsey but more ruthless -- although Bailey is a much less ruthless author than Sayers, his stories (at least in this volume) never rise above their form. A very enjoyable read for October; I suspect there will be many more to come.
I didn't find Dr. Reggie Fortune a likeable character. He was brilliant crime-solver, but he showed no compassion to victims and complained about having to investigate. He also made him judge, jury, and executioner in some cases even though he talked about justice and morality.
I like these old mysteries set in the early 1900's. A doctor sifts through clues to solve mysteries.
Read so far:The Archduke's Tea--3The Business Minister--3The Efficient Assassin--3The Hottentot Venus--2The Nice Girl--2The Sleeping Companion--2
BB-Kindle-Free. If you like Lord Peter Wimsey,you may like Reggie. Would have given these short stories a 31/2 stars if I could.
Cute, but not gripping.
done. done. i am done with it.
It is a bit twee, and there are some not so PC comments, but all in all, a very fine installment in the Dr. Fortune series. I like the old mysteries.
Mr. Fortune is a quirky character and sometimes nonplussed and very likable.
