https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/466354.Little_Man_What_Now_
Τόσα βιβλία έχω διαβάζει για την Δημοκρατία της Βαϊμάρης και την άνοδο του 3ου Ράιχ, αλλά μόνο τώρα, διαβάζοντας αυτό το μυθιστόρημα, κατάλαβα σε βάθος, τί συνέβαινε εκείνη την εποχή στην Γερμανία.
Και με τρόμο διαπιστώνω πως αν τον Σόνυ τον έλεγαν Γιάννη και την Λάμχεν Μαρία, θα μπορούσε αυτή η ιστορία να εκτυλίσσεται στην Αθήνα του 2016 κι όχι στο Βερολίνο του 1932.
Τα Μάντελς (σσ πολυκατάστημα ρούχων και αξεσουάρ) δεν ενδιαφέρονται για την ιδιωτική σου ζωή.
Γραμμένο σε μια εποχή μεγάλης οικονομικής κρίσης ,την περίοδο που η Δημοκρατία της Βαϊμαρης κατέρρεε
Faced with the policeman, these respectable people, this bright shop window, he understood that he was on the outside now, that he didn’t belong any more…”Unemployment was at 42% in Weimar when Hans Fallada published this tender and often charming novel of Germany between the wars.
In a novel nearly apolitical, because it’s focus is the little guy, we see the conditions that give birth to what happened, and get a glimpse — not from hindsight, because this was published in 1932 — at an ugliness that would only grow more fervent, until it threatened to engulf the world.There is a soft neorealism to Fallada’s narrative, which is tremendously intimate, and terribly charming.
«Μόλις πριν λίγο βγήκε από του Λέμαν, προσωπάρχη των Καταστημάτων Μάντελ, ζήτησε μια θέση εκεί και την πήρε, μια επαγγελματική συναλλαγή πολύ απλή.
Αλλά κάπου μέσα του ο Πίνεμπεργκ νιώθει ότι εξαιτίας αυτής της συναλλαγής, και παρόλο που βρίσκεται πάλι από την πλευρά εκείνων που βγάζουν τα προς το ζην, νιώθει πιο κοντά σ’ αυτούς που δεν κερδίζουν τίποτε παρά σ’ αυτούς που κερδίζουν πολλά.
Θεέ μου αυτή η ευτυχία όταν βρεις ένα βιβλίο που σου μιλάει τόσο πολύ στην ψυχή!!!
Ένα βιβλίο γροθιά μαχαιριά στην καρδιά και την ίδια ώρα τόσο γλυκό και τρυφερό.
Ο ανθρωπάκος του Φαλάντα, είναι μικρός και ερωτευμένος.
Κάνει όνειρα για την υπέροχη ζωή που απλώνεται μπροστά του.
Αλλά η Γερμανία της κρίσης, λίγο πριν τον Β ΠΠ δεν του χαρίζεται.
Όλα τα συστατικά που οδήγησαν στην κρίση είναι εδώ.
Όμως και ο ίδιος βγαλμένος από την ίδια μήτρα περίπου δεν έχει τα εφόδια για να πολεμήσει.
Ο μικροαστισμος σε όλη του την άνθιση, κατακεραυνωνεται από τον Φαλάντα, για μια ακόμα φορά, που επιλέγει ωστόσο, να δώσει μια πνοή αισιοδοξίας στο τέλος, καθώς πάντα η ζωή είναι larger than ourselves , κ η μια φορά που δεν θα σε ρίξει αξίζει όλα τα πεσιματα που προηγήθηκαν
Σκληρό αλλά ταυτόχρονα τόσο γλυκό.
The young man looked at Pinneberg. Pinneberg looked at the young man. Both of them were smartly dressed. Pinneberg was obliged to look respectable in his job. Both of them had washed and shaved, both had clean nails and both of them were white-collar workers.But they were enemies, deadly enemies, because one of them was sitting behind the counter and the other was standing in front. The one wanted what he considered to be his rights; the other regarded it as an imposition. The above passage whi
At the same time, Fallada perfectly captures the constant anxiety one feels when one has to desperately and unavailingly beg for a job, any job, the loss of dignity that comes when one is kicked out of one's job just because one didn't meet the monthly goal for example, and the ever-burning flame of "how will I feed my child when I can't even provide for myself" which slowly devours a person from inside out.
When the Little Man grows even smaller by the day, any sense of dignity evaporates along with the joys he should be feeling but he's not.
What a sad and gripping novel.
The style in which it is written sometimes feels a bit naive but it underlines the humble position of the protagonists.
They undergo life as a constant stream of fear for and struggle against poverty.
Even when the boy has a job, there is the constant fear of losing it.
You feel sorry, very sorry for the two main characters.
The end is so sad that I wanted to cry.
I couldn't get it out of my head, their fate.
The book shows very good how people struggle to survive in the twenties in Germany with its financial crisis.
"Kleiner Mann, was nun?" is exactly what the title says - a small man, living his small life, with his small family, striving to survive day by day.
This "smallness", while at times quite numbing with its ordinarity, lingers with the reader for a long time for a long time after finishing the book.
I liked how Fallada wrapped the lessons about history and the economic/political situation around the simple tale of a young couple trying to raise a family and survive in the Depression.
The book was a bit long, but Fallada is a good enough writer so my interest remained undiminished.
It involves the trials and tribulations of a couple setting up a life together and starting a family at a time of great hardship.
By the end of the book the couple have reached a sort of precarious equilibrium, just about managing, and it even ends on a positive note as it looks as if the wife has worked out how to increase their meagre income a little.In the background there are ominous undertones as a certain monotesticular Austrian corporal is on the march.The tone of the book is light - even comic at times - despite its bleak subject matter, and it has a really contemporary feel for a book that was written eighty years ago.
At the same time I can't help but like the title, as if it's setting us up less to see a warning (which it is) and more to see the people in it, as a (which it also is) nice, low-intensity but increasingly desperate story about a young family just trying to get along.Start from the beginning: Johannes Pinneberg marries Emma "Lämmchen" ("Little lamb") Mörschel.
Germany of 1932 was long ago.And yet I read this book and I love it, I can almost forget what I know, I can read it and see that question mark at the end of the title.
George Grosz - Berlin Street, 1931Wandering, pitiful story of a poorer employed couple in the last years of Weimar Germany. Living constantly in the short-term, from pay-day to pay-day, desperate, shunned. Fallada wants so desperately to write about the triumph of the human spirit and love at the very end, but what would happen in Germany by 1933 only laughs at that.
His fictional world of Berlin was praised as "no fiction at all," but rather an authentic report of life - a novel for 'the people.' The novel's strength is in the acute perspectives and observations of its characters, mainly through Johannes Pinneberg, a man of little means; and his wife, Lammchen, as they confront an unexpected pregnancy, the contentment and wonderment of the newly-wedded, the fulfillment of work regardless of its meagerness, the anxiety of unemployment and then utter despair.
Pinneberg finds joy in the prospect of becoming a husband and father, but hopes of providing for a family turn dismally in a string of unfortunate events.
Eine tiefe Politikverdrossenheit ist dem Roman zu entnehmen, auch wenn sich Fallada - aus persönlicher Vorliebe oder schriftstellerischem Kalkül, konnte man die Erfolge der Nazis doch schon herannahen sehen, sei einmal dahin gestellt – eher zurückhaltend in politischer Be- oder gar Verurteilung gibt.
Fallada bietet nicht die ironische Distanz eines Thomas Mann, obwohl sein Schreiben durchaus ironische Untertöne hat, die hier aber eher distanzmildernd wirken, dem Leser das Gelesene abmildernd; er bietet aber auch keine surrealen oder expressionistischen Ausschweifungen wie es Döblin tat, und Remarques tiefe Ernsthaftigkeit wird bei Fallada durch einen scheinbar lapidaren, manchmla leichten Alltagston ersetzt.
The Weimar Republic is in its death throes, the Nazi’s inexorable rise to power creeps on, and Johannes and Emma Pinneberg are newly married with a baby on the way.
Not love in a syrupy, idealistic way but an actual sense of when everything around them is crumbling, they know they always have each other to fall back on.
Yes, this story is sad and it’s easy to lose hope for the Pinnebergs with each new setback.
But that they never lose hope or their love for each other makes this at heart a beautiful and wonderful read.
Hans Fallada must have been a lover, because he hits every detail.
Fallada wants to defend the lovers' right to their naivete, to their apolitical existence - to defend the "little man" from the Nazis' politicization of daily life.
He is actually optimistic (of course he is, he doesn't know what's going to happen, who ever does?), which inspires a deep sadness and, if read late at night, sense of doom in the contemporary reader - especially one who has already read Every Man Dies Alone, Fallada's final & postwar novel, and who realizes that Fallada's faith in the lovers will give way to his faith in death.
može iščitati sve što je došlo kasnije - iako su junaci Pinebergovi totalni duduci za politiku, i njima je jasno da su dve glavne opcije komunisti i nacisti (a što oni vole da se tuku!), na nekoliko mesta se pojave jevrejski likovi kojima je život već znatno otežan zbog sveprožimajućeg antisemitizma, gunđa se zbog ovog i onog, ali u dnu svega je, kao talog, očajanje malog čoveka što je beznačajni šraf i što mu nema spasa.
Jeste da je Falada na kraju malo dao po violinama i patetici u prikazu supruge koja će sve izneti na svojim plećima, ali bez toga bi knjiga mogla da se završi samo duplim samoubistvom.
The counting of every pfennig, the absurdities of the hierarchies in the various shops and offices where the unfortunate Pinneburg (sorry that may be wrong - haven't got the book with me at the moment)works, the landladies and streets of Berlin where the couple go to live are all exquisitely done.
Best of all was the wife Lammechen, who does things wrong (like a disastrous pea soup), is always in trouble, but keeps the family together.
Maybe a mite sentimental in the end and at times a little wonky, it was hard not to love this book.
A lovely story of a young couple trying to make ends meet.
The hardships placed on this couple, through no fault of their own, are still valid and around us today.
Poverty can strike anyone, jobs are scarce and insecure, one feels as if one is a cog in a giant wheel with no control.
They do it with goodness, naivete, courage, love and faith that all will be well.
They are the everyman of their time.
Fallada tells this story with charm and humor.
A wonderful read and timely despite it's historical setting.
Años 30. Alemania vive una de las peores crisis de su historia (caldo de cultivo para el nazismo). Fallada describe una sociedad cruel y miserable en la que algunos de sus miembros, como Chico y Corderita, una joven pareja de recién casados, tratan de sobrevivir sin perder su dignidad. Un canto al amor como tabla de salvamento ante la marginación.Precioso, terrible y muy actual.
2.5* και αδυνατον να διαβασω τις τελευταιες 100 σελίδες. Η τεχνη του Φαλλαντα ηταν στα σπαργανα και αναπτυχθηκε, ωριμασε και εφτασε στο αποκορυφωμά της με τα μετεπειτα βιβλία του, εκ των οποιων ο Πότης ειναι για μενα αριστουργημα.
"La pobreza no es solamente miseria, la pobreza es también mácula, la pobreza equivale también a ser sospechoso."Un libro bonito, emotivo, entrañable y a veces un poco duro sobre la vida en la Alemania anterior a la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Una novela que habla de temas trascendentales narrados de manera sencilla pero elegante.
A moving insight into the struggle of the working class people in Germany in the thirties.
Armoede maakt je verdacht.’‘Wat nu, kleine man?’ is aangrijpend en ontroerend, soms ook een beetje enerverend door het getuttel en de naïviteit van de hoofdpersonages, een liefdevolle roman over de ‘kleine man’ die in het Duitsland van de prille jaren 30 vecht voor een menswaardig bestaan.
Armoede, vernedering en sociale neergang zijn het lot van de Pinnebergs die van het platteland naar Berlijn trekken om een beter leven te vinden, maar daar pas echt in de ellende komen.
Er zijn er genoeg…”’), en de angst en de onzekerheid die dat teweegbrengt bij de kleine man worden met veel empathie door Fallada beschreven.

Man muss Lämmchen und Hannes Pinneberg einfach mögen! Unverdorben, ein wenig blauäuig, aber immer mit jeder Menge Herz meistern sie gemeinsam ihre ersten Ehejahre und die Ankunft ihres Murkels. Obwohl sie von der Weltwirtschaftskrise arg gebeutelt werden, verlieren sie nie den ehrlichen Weg und machen sich gegenseitig Mut. Vor allem Lämmchen durchläuft hierbei eine großartige Entwicklung und aus dem anfänglichen kleinen Dummchen wird bald eine reife Frau, deren Optimismus und Tatkraft unerschüttlich bleiben. - Fallada gelingt es seine beide Protagonisten derart lebensecht zu skizzieren, dass sie nach Auslesen des Buches wie lieb gewonnene Freunde fehlen werden.
Me ha parecido un texto casi infantil, pero ni siquiera tengo claro que pueda decir que es una buena lectura juvenil: para los más jóvenes (digamos nivel infantil) las cuitas de una pareja de recién casados sumidos en un sinfín de problemas económicos no resultarán del menor interés, y para un público juvenil más maduro, de nuevo me da la impresión de que el texto es demasiado básico, demasiado elemental, que un poquito más de sustancia o de reflexión no hubiera hecho daño a nadie…Pero en fin, lo dicho, se lee bien.
Lectura ágil, por supuesto… pero uno espera algo más que eso.
Kurgusu insanı bunaltacak denli yeknesak olsa da kendini okutuyor. Buna rağmen tekrar bir Fallada romanı okur muyum? Sanmam.
Maar Fallada schrijft zo meeslepend dat je letterlijk wordt meegezogen in het verhaal en steeds verder wil blijven lezen.Je leeft je helemaal in in de personages die zo herkenbaar zijn, dat je jezelf voortdurend tegen 't lijf loopt.Hoewel de situaties die hij beschrijft heel gewoon zijn, en door de stuntelige naïviteit van de personages soms zelfs grappig, zit je vaak op 't puntje van je stoel.
De Fallada die mensen tracht wakker te schudden uit hun vooroordelen, hun egoïsme en hun onverschilligheid, door hen te tonen hoe makkelijk het is om aan de "andere kant" terecht te komen, want : "Armoede betekent niet alleen ellende.
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ..........................................Hans Fallada nu este un povestitor. Fallada îngheață timpul și oameni după care le insuflă viață și le-o oferă cititorului. Fallada nu este scriitorul care să umble la cutia cu metafore, la scriitura stilizată care să te facă să trăiești melancolia, suferința, chinul personajelor. Fallada nu face apel la jonglerii care să te manipuleze subtil și să-ți înfigă pe sub piele povestea care va crește c
Fallada nu este scriitorul care să umble la cutia cu metafore, la scriitura stilizată care să te facă să trăiești melancolia, suferința, chinul personajelor.
Fallada nu face apel la jonglerii care să te manipuleze subtil și să-ți înfigă pe sub piele povestea care va crește ca o tumoare în interiorul tău până când vei izbucni în lacrimi.
Fallada creionează portrete ca un desenator ambulant din piețele centrale ale orașelor.
Stă lângă oamenii despre care scrie și îi ascultă, îi urmărește, îi înțelege, îi iubește și fură bucăți din ei pentru a le așterne pe hârtie.
