https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38461.Tell_Me_How_Long_the_Train_s_Been_Gone
Leo is a famous, black, bisexual stage actor who has just had a serious heart attack.
I've been reading a lot of James Baldwin this year and this is the first book that I've felt was too long (by about 200 pages).
I preferred the parts of the book that dealt with the theater, but the parts about Leo's childhood in Harlem felt like I'd read them before in other Baldwin books and a lot of the book was pretty boring.
I wouldn't recommend starting with this book if you are new to Baldwin's work.
Baldwin once said "You think your pain and your heartbreak are unprecedented in the history of the world, but then you read." And this sentiment is certainly what I felt whilst reading this wonderful novel. At times it was eerie how well I could relate to it.
siyah bir çocuğun siyah evinde ve siyah sokaklarda geçen bu bölüm, sanatçı kimliğinini yanına eylemci kimliğini de ekleyen Leo' nun beyaz amerika' dan nefretinini oluşturduğu anlara tanık ediyor okuru.
Sonra tanrıdan nefret ettim." Umutsuzluk kokan ve sonu ya hapis ya beyazlara hizmet ile bitecek bu hayattan çıkışı oyunculukta bulan Leo' yu ikinci bölümde amerika taşrasında aktör eğitim salonunda buluyoruz ki bence kitabın en güçlü yeri burası.
Son bölüm ise sahne yıldızı sokak eylemcisi Leo' nun hastaneden çıkışı ile başlıyor ve sürprizsiz bir sona doğru ilerliyor.Ne zaman gitti tren sizi metin ya da kurgu olarak şaşırtacak, ters köşe olacağınız bir eser değil, post modern anlatı meftunları için arkaik bir eser bile denebilir.
I was a bit anxious to read this one because lately I've been eagerly declaring that Baldwin (with Stefan Zweig) is my favourite -or at least the most versatile and ahead of his era- writer.
Baldwin's essay collections are sublime and even (or better: certainly) today quintessential reading.
It is rare to find a book which you want to savour and devour at the same time: slowly reading line by line tasting it's poetry and urgently turning pages to find out what's ahead.Next time somebody claims Philip Roth is entitled to winning the Nobel prize, I will ask if he or she read enough Baldwin.
I feel Leo's written pretty inconsistently, especially with regard to his inner dialogue with his awareness as a politicized subject.
It's a bloated, floaty, drifting novel that jumps timelines and burns slowly, but Baldwin dazzled me with his ability to make me want to spend a lot of time with this cast, despite not viewing them highly as human beings.
The devastatingly beautiful reflections in prose, deep understanding of humanity, and unapologetic political blackness are all pretty typical for Baldwin, but they especially grabbed me here, and are ultimately what kept this novel afloat for me.
He is able to address a range of themes and emotions in a clear, unfussy style that makes his stories both a joy to behold and an experience to share.
It is this authenticity of description and experience that allows you to become so involved and invested in the stories and the journeys of his characters.
That there is such a personal experience gained from - and a personal investment made in - stories created in another time and place is testament to Baldwin's skill.
Any anger that is in the book - and there is a lot - comes from a place of love and faith (in humanity) and not from hate or despair.
I picked up this book after a long period of reading either non-fiction or science fiction and fantasy. Its safe to say that i have fallen deeply in love with James Baldwin and I have been brought back safely to novel-land. In this lesser known work, Baldwin demonstrates his skillful use language, and his deep understanding of the human condition in the racist, sexist, heteronormative, capitalist United States. This book will truly move your heart and mind, and push you grapple with your own contradictions...READ IT.
I won’t bury the lede: Tell Me How Long the Train's Been Gone is one of my favorite works of 20th century literature; if you haven’t read it (or haven’t read Baldwin) you should consider that a gap worthy of being filled post haste. While not essential to one’s reading, I would recommend pairing this with The Fire Next Time, as there are numerous autobiographical details discussed in that book that directly contribute to moments in this book.  There was something very wonderful which Salvatore b
I think if l had never seen Jerry with Salvatore, I would never have known what pain and love were in the boy, could not have guessed how much he had lost already, and why it was possible for Barbara really to care about him.
Salvatore could not know it, but he thus reached directly into the heart of Jerry’s loneliness, and also foreshadowed his hard and lonely life.
Baldwin has constructed a deeply intimate book, told through the first person narrative of Leo Proudhammer, that lays bare the anguish and bitterness of the early-20th-century African-American experience, and yet it doesn’t succumb to despair.
The back of this book makes it out to be the life story of a black actor who rises to greatness, but is "torn between two different kinds of love".
I don't think Baldwin makes as big a deal as all that about the fact that the character, Leo, has one lover who is a woman his age and one who is a man much younger than he is.
The fact that she and he are both famous actors affects their love story about as much as their racial difference.Anyway, Baldwin writes subtle characters, and astute political commentary that is not subtle but still doesn't feel heavy-handed or awkwardly inserted.
Jimmy leaves my jaw on the floor Everytime! There is no greater writer.
Deshalb folgt auf einen längeren Erzählstrang mit Leo Proudhammers Infarkt- und Genesungsgegegenwart, ein Abschnitt aus seinem Elendsbildungsroman aus Harlem oder den Jahren vor seinem Durchbruch, in dem sich sein verhängnisvolles Verhältnis zu Barbara entwickelt, eine von Rassismus und persönlichen Defiziten belastete Daueraffäre, bei der sich beide den Wunsch nach Nachwuchs versagen müssen.Die Liebe zum Black Panther Christopher ist durch familiäre Wurzeln geprägt, denn der junge Liebhaber erinnert an den stolzen Vater, Leos Verhältnis zum später fromm gewordenen Bruder Caleb trägt stark homoerotische Züge.
Das klingt alles so weit ganz gut, allerdings fehlt James Baldwin jegliches Gespür für erzählerische Balance oder Relevanz, zwar gibt es Sätze zum Einrahmen oder immer wieder Abschnitte bei denen man hofft, dass das Buch vielleicht doch noch die Kurve kriegt*, aber alles in allem entsteht der Eindruck, einmal hingeschrieben und nie mehr im Kontext gelesen.
Looooooong. Leo is an old successful man reflecting/ remembering his life from younger brother in Harlem to accomplished actor. Great realistic coming of age, fiction, bisexual MC. Race, love, siblings. #WNDB
4.5 starsBaldwin’s view of America is different that the view I get from other books. It’s a view full with pain, hurt, anger, violence, poverty, racism which affect in one way all another all the people in play that is all Americans. "I was part of these people, no matter how bitterly I judged them. I would never be able to leave this country. I could only leave it briefly, like a drowning man coming up for air. I had the choice of perishing with these doomed people, or of fleeing them, denying
It’s a view full with pain, hurt, anger, violence, poverty, racism which affect in one way all another all the people in play that is all Americans.
I would never be able to leave this country.
I could only leave it briefly, like a drowning man coming up for air.
Through Leo he explores ways forwards out of poverty and hate.
Some find the way in religion like Caleb or in angry protestations like Christopher or in art like Leo. Maybe the fact that there is no one road makes the battle so much more difficult as there is no unity of purpose or of method.
Engaging enough to read all 484 pages in 8 days during the school year.
They publishers market this book with Leo Proudhammer's two love affairs, one with a white woman and the other with a younger, gay Black man post WW2.
I appreciated Proudhammer's strong sense of identity, never seeming to doubt himself nor whom he loved as a Black, bisexual man during the 1940's.
I was most engaged reading Baldwin's portrait of this biracial couple at one point living up in upstate NY and seeing others' reactions which made me think about my own relationship and how difficult it would have been 60 years ago.
This is my second Baldwin title, and he still sits as one of the best writers i've ever stumbled upon.
The pain and the lust and the intimacy and the world pre-civil rights all was hyper real and demonstrated how many aspects of the Black American Male psyche has not changed, and cannot change without replacing instilled hatred with love.
As hard as that actually is, in the day to day, when encountering a world still baffled by plenty of ignorance.
Baldwin represents that he understands, and for me is a hug that no father or mother, or bestfriend, or lover could ever give.
I really loved this book.
Few writers have the capacity to make me fall in love, and to break my heart, and Baldwin does it best.
The memories jump forward and back in time, as memories do, but not too drastically, and they are treated with that sort of painful, bittersweet nostalgia that one feels when looking back at those defining moments in one's life.
The moments of regret and warmth, the fights with loved ones that almost broke you, but ended up bringing you closer when you survived them.
Which makes sense, and makes the book feel well-marinated.
James Baldwin talks to a part of my soul like no other writer.
I have read three of his books so far and have made a promise to read every word he has ever written.
This is great, because he has over 20 novels, plays, and collections of short stories and essays.
He writes about race, class, art and life like no one else.
He is one of the most important writers of our time.
The content is not for MS readers, but he is a name you should add to your list when you are older as someone to explore.
I am moving onto another book of his next.
The prose of this book is, in actuality, poetic. This was not one of my favorite Bladwin books but the beauty and craftsmanship of how these words are place together keeps you reading to the very end. I think if I had been a different person, maybe interested in theater or film, or if I had a brother, maybe that deeper connection would have been made. Still this book is high art well worth a read and discussion.
The friends that rally around him at that time, along with family life and tales of his childhood, carry the emotional content of the book.
Though you do feel the events as they happen and experience the corresponding emotions, it's strange because you're also at a distance from Leo. Perhaps Baldwin addresses this when the main character says things about maintaining distance between himself and other people, but it's strange how you can know so much about a character's life, see everything from his perspective and still have only just a sense of who he is.
The fact that some parts of this book was written in Istanbul makes my heart happy, it's ridiculous but I don't care lol.
Drop everything and read all the Baldwin books I can get my hands on!!
^.^ This was the longest book of James Baldwin I have yet to read but there wasn't one dull moment.
Baldwin's stories are not particularly happy stories, and neither of his characters but they are real for sure and that's probably why I always go for another Baldwin book right after I read one.
I’m so conflicted about this book but had to round down to two stars.
Of almost 500 pages, there were definitely a dozen plus sentences that made the book worthwhile - profound, clear, beautiful insights.
The first quarter and last quarter of the book moved quickly and moved towards purpose.
The manned in which it’s written - switching time frames so quickly, and no paragraph breaks for several pages - is disorienting and difficult to chew through.
I’m glad I read it, but I won’t go back to it, and I’d lie if I said I didn’t skim some of it.
I always enjoy spending time with James Baldwin. This novel doesn’t fall short of his voice, obviously. He did with it what he does best: present difficult themes like race and sexuality in America while allowing his reader to build a relationship with the characters. I wonder what kind of story Baldwin would write in 2017.
I do think Baldwin is telling the same story over and over, maybe it’s hard to get to the essence. Again, I wish I’d had someone to discuss this with ...
The dialogue in this novel is incredibly honest and brave.
“Tell Me How Long the Train’s Been Gone” by James Baldwin tells the story of Leo Proudhammer, a successful African American actor who grew up in Harlem.
The book showcases his struggles through life, which will draw the reader into this realistic tale of another ordinary man who becomes extraordinary.
While talking to this man, Proudhammer is asked, “What do you want to be?” He, then and there, spontaneously decides and replies “an actor” This is the moment that defined the rest of Proudhammer’s life, as he had found his dream, standing next to a stranger, lost in Harlem.
I first read this book when I was a teenager.
Returning to it a few decades later felt like revisiting a beloved friend, except I now have enough life experience to appreciate it even more than I did when I first read it.
Baldwin's eloquence and poetic prose once again captured me, but this time around I was also struck by his understanding of the human condition.
Baldwin always bore witness to the injustices meted out against African Americans and this is to the fore in this novel.
Yes, there is rage in this book, and there is also tremendous love.
I've fallen in love with Baldwin all over again.
This book goes on and on and on and on...it could have been 100-150 pages shorter without losing much. There were scenes I really enjoyed in this book, and I especially enjoyed the last 50 pages or so, but overall, not my cup of tea.
this book is so amazing, james baldwin has a way of describing things i could never even imagine being able to describe, in ways that make yr heart and brain explode! now i must read all his other books, as soon as possible.
This was an amazing read, then the ending left me feeling thrust out of the story, unfinished.
Hmm. I really thought I loved James Baldwin - which is why I made the effort to track down this novel.
I wanted to understand what Leo had learned in his 20 years or so working in a mostly white world.
The tag line "A novel that tells it like it is about sex, race and morality today." Again, mostly misleading.
The novel contains instances of sex and race, which do if thought about, touch on morality - but Baldwin mostly sidesteps the actual issues, and drones on with boring facts of Leo's love life.
