https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322939.An_Autobiography
Jawaharlal Nehru, a man I shall always be sorry I never met, wrote a desperately fascinating book!
As Introduction goes, "What is the one salient thing to say about Nehru?", there has been too much talk of East and West can never meet, 'Nehru is proof that they have already met.'It is strange, a man of his stature has been reduced to Nehru-dynasty( which he did not create ) and China war.
With same gravity and respect, Instead of reducing him to China war crisis, we can acknowledge his invaluable contribution without-which India would have not reached to its present form of being a free democracy.
Whenever I read Pandit Nehru I feel like my father is writing to me.
Nehru's first book I read is 'Discovery of India'.
But after reading 'Glimpses of world history 'I became staunch admirer of Nehru.
This is long book of 650 pages but book flows with the masterly prose of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru.
Major portion of this book is related to working of congress and major events of freedom struggle between 1910-35.
After a brief description of his lineage and childhood Nehru writes about the major events of freedom struggle.
Here are some beautiful lines which I marked while reading this book:-1.
A bright, thoughtful, lively, insightful and passionate individual, not presented with all the answers in life, but with a strong curiosity to learn.
I was moved by his reflections on marriage, religion, colonialism, nature and life."I am afraid our veneer of civilized conduct is thin enough, and, when passions are aroused, it rubs off and reveals something that is not good to look at.""To me these years have brought one rich gift among many others.
More and more I have looked upon life as an adventure of absorbing interest, where there is so much to learn, so much to do.
The whole book is just the chronological description of various aspect of Indian freedom struggle.
Nehru has shared his personal family life also.
Well, in this autobiography, Nehru has presented Gandhiji as the hero of the Indian freedom struggle, while for the self he accepted the role of side hero.
In this book, Nehru has accepted that he didn't agree with Gandhiji on many things like sex, morality, villeges, industry, fasting etc; yet he adored him very much.
Nehru describes his life journey only till 1935-36, because after that he was freed from the jail and the manuscript was sent to publishers.
هند در زیر فشار تزویر و دیکتاتوری دست و پا میزد و تازه اربابان ما دم از دموکراسی میزدند دهقان هندی همیشه به خاطر قدرت فوق العاده تحمل رنج موجب حیرت جهانیان شده است و همیشه هم مصیبت و رنج به صورت قحطی ها , طغیان ها , بیماری ها و فقر نابود کننده دایمی برایش فراوان بوده است .
وقتیکه دیگر هیچ کاری از دست دهقانان بر نیاید بدون هیچ شکایتی هزار هزار و حتی میلیون میلیون روی زمین دراز می کشند و می میرند .
زمانی که هر یک از ما لغت استقلال را به کار می بریم همه به یک چیز فکر می کنیم ؟ یا هر یک از ما طور دیگری می اندیشد ؟ (از متن کتاب )
Its more on the history of India. beautifully written and Nehru has clearly mentioned the conflicts in ideology he had with Gandhi at times. A better way to learn history of India during the independence struggle.
Here's a telling excerpt from the same.'...I've become quite a queer mixture of the East and the West, out of place everywhere, at home nowhere...but India clings to me, as she does to all her children, in innumerable ways....They're both part of me, and though they help both in the East and the West, they also create in me a feeling of spiritual loneliness not only in public activities but in life itself.
But I do know it is a bad thing to desert one's past, and I prefer what may be good, to what I know to be bad."The years I've spent in prison!
Miraculously, I got my hands on this book at the Mussoorie Library and was amazed by the honesty of the author.
Be it his father's hatred for Indians especially the lowly ones or his blatant weakness for women, he has put everything out in this book.
Unsurprisingly, the author was not in love with his father though he was always in awe of him.
I loved the clarity of thoughts in the book and the imagery.
Absolutely loved the book and is a treasure for any bibliophile.
This book ought to be in every library in schools across India and abroad.
A must read.
So, autobiography is one of the most important ways to paint a person.
Nehru, though has only a brief visit to USSR, was a great admirer of Soviet Russia and the way it rose from dust.
He has that amazing skill of painting the view of different jails as a poet and explaining its political significance at the same time as a thinker.
Towards the end of the book, a rather long passage on communalism and its very effects discussed is very interesting and it shows the very personality of man who strongly condemned any such kind of "vested interests".
Amazingly enough, I appreciated and approved of his criticsm towards Gandhi - a few years back I would have definitely been on the other side, the 'metaphysical' one.
Another idea to which I could not subscribe was the principle that public administration personnel should receive very small salaries if any salary at all, the argument being that only people determined to work for the public good expecting nothing in return should do that kind of jobs.
What bothered me most was the naivity of believing something like that could work.
I started this book, with great anticipation to look at the pieces of Indo Pak history and condition of India (Pre Partitioned), though it give a great deal of light on the personality and life of Mr. Nehru, yet it seized to give a account of the situation.It shows how hollow the thinking of those leaders of Congress.
I do give respect to the suffering they went into due to the cause of independence, but yet I am force to conclude that there were confused, and that is the reason still India and Pakistan are copping up with the situation.
Really felt like i should have been living during the time. JLN tends to bring out a lot of soul of the pre independence era, his own likes, dislikes, shortcomings, besides his time during his jail terms. I personally felt very near JLN whenever the mentions of his life in jail came up. the book is essentially unputdownable. Tends to bring out the human element of great people.
He's quite frank here. Sometimes, I couldn't help thinking "this guy is not THAT brilliant a leader". In that sense, this book gives good insights into the minds of those involved in indian freedom struggle.
ဘာသာေရး ေနာကခံကား အေရာငရငလွေသာ တိုငးျပညႀကီးတစခုမွ ဘာသာမဲေခါငးေဆာငတစဦး။သို႔မဟုတ ဂ၀ါဟလာ ေနရူး။ေနရူးျပတိုကရွိ စာအုပစငတြင ယနးေပါဆတ၏ Being and Nothingness စာအုပႀကီးအား ခန႔ခန႔ျငားျငား ေတြ႕ခဲရ၏။
ဘာသာေရး ေနာက္ခံကား အေရာင္ရင့္လွေသာ တိုင္းျပည္ႀကီးတစ္ခုမွ ဘာသာမဲ့ေခါင္းေဆာင္တစ္ဦး။သို႔မဟုတ္ ဂ်၀ါဟလာ ေနရူး။ေနရူးျပတိုက္ရွိ စာအုပ္စင္တြင္ ယန္းေပါဆတ္၏ Being and Nothingness စာအုပ္ႀကီးအား ခန္႔ခန္႔ျငားျငား ေတြ႕ခဲ့ရ၏။
Nehru as a politician, or more precisely as Prime Minister, may not be held in esteem by one and all. But the ideas in this book are definitely worthy of admiration. I would recommend this book to everybody; the richness of his ideas make this book worth a read!
In just two word, i think , it is a 'Tremendous book'. Got familiar with Nehru ji modern thinking about life, Nation, society, economy, politics etc. Very worthily book to read if you have some ideas about modern history of India.
Exceptionally well written
Opens you into the world of 1920's and 30's. Also the author's impartial take on things is something to reckon.
Never mind! Wasn't expecting anything fruitful.
