https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51017.Re_Creations
College girl is called home early to help take care of her family through her mother's extended illness.
One brother has fallen in with the wrong crowd, another is embittered, the sister is overworked, and the father depressed.
What can a girl do?
Get the whole family together to make a pleasant home!
A flurry of fireplace building and gingerbread baking begins.
I just love it.
The romance is nearly an afterthought as the main focus is on love of family.
And gingerbread.Edit to add: I REALLY wish they had published these books with era-appropriate covers.
How adorable could it have been, right??
She has to come home because there is no more money for college, and she must also take care of the family while her mother recovers away from home.When she arrives home, she finds things in a bad state.
The old home is gone, the family is living in a tumble-down old house in a poor neighborhood, and her beloved older brother has fallen in with a bad crowd.At first she is depressed, but then she realizes that she can improve things.
She is able to use her decorating skills to make her home a place to be proud of.

I always love reading the books written by Grace Livingston Hill, and every one of them keep me up till all hours of the night ...
She loved her brother back into the arms of the family by making their home atmosphere warm and inviting.What I didn’t like: Some of the ideas and “rules” of etiquette in Ms. Hill's books seem old-fashioned and outdated, but in other ways they are endearing and interesting.
All the books of Grace Livingston Hill teach strong family values and moral character, and the characters always grow and learn to have a stronger faith in God. I would highly recommend this book to anyone loving a good, clean, Christian love story.
I found this book recently, one of my favorite authors, and realized I'd never read it. It didn't look as appealing as the others, but I ended up loving it!It was pretty old-fashioned, having been written in 1924, but for the most part I sure love the morals of those days, and I appreciated the character development of this story. The main message of the story was "Love them back." The main character's brother has become seemingly morally lost, and needed the love of his family, and their dependence on the help of the Lord to bring him back.Sweet read!
I've read this book dozens of times. It's one of those relaxing, go to books... Every time I read it, I roll my eyes at some of the gender stereotypes and elitism it contains. Yet, I keep going back and reading it again. It's a nice story...I like the parts where she is making over their home. The romance is kind of an afterthought.
Cornelia is just the sort of heroine I like. Strong and self reliant, but not always perfect sometimes selfish, sometimes impatient, sometimes just discouraged, but she picks herself up and tries again.
I was given this book by my great-grandmother and I ended up enjoying it much more than I thought I would. The author is fabulous at weaving real-life worries in with lovely imagery and a plot that keeps you turning pages! Would definitely recommend!!
Love this book! So sweet!
GoodEnjoyable and uplifting. I wonder why so many words are necessary for a review. I would do more reviews if I could just rate it.
LovelyThis is a book displaying so many human emotions that we have experienced. Love , disappointment, joy, soul searching and fears that we all have had at one time or another.
Reminds me somewhat of another favorite for re-reading, EMILY OF DEEP VALLEY by Maud Hart Lovelace.
These few books that I have read by Hill are wonderful in seeing just what tremendous influence women can have in the world.
Sweet story of a girl who leaves college to help her family, interior decorating and romance/protégés.
One of my all time favorite books.
Hill, Grace Livingston
The best parts of GLH's books are the passages about thriftiness and making a beautiful home with few resources.
I can't discern if I enjoyed this book so much because it was an utter surprise or just because it is that good.
I picked it up on a trade shelf at an airport in Centralia, Washington because I thought the cover was beautiful.
Sometimes you can judge a book by it's cover I suppose.
It did get lengthy at times, but instead of wanting to skip ahead, I found myself enjoying the poetic steady writing.
I found it uplifting and inspiring and sweet, old fashioned, romantic, and full of a romp of an adventure I bought into.
This was my first of her books, but will not be my last.
If every young woman was as talented as Cordelia...
