https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60943.In_Search_of_Our_Mothers_Gardens
When will egotistical and same-minded university heads get over themselves and allow diversity of thought within our schools by ensuring a diverse faculty and by allowing professors this thing supposedly called "academic freedom," a choice that is antithetical to the infamous and stale 'required anthologies' used in some schools?(After the mini-rant, maybe I'll return for a better review of this…)________________________________And back...I won't go into the personal insults I, or my colleagues of color, have endured within academia; the kind we sit and discuss over coffee, or while at a conference, marveling at the similarity in wording and tone.
It took me about a month to finish this incredibly powerful and convicting collection (it's dense and contains a lot of essays, speeches and statements), but I am so glad to have read it. Walker covers so much! From her search for Zora Neale Hurston's grave to reflections on female writers who walked before us and more. One thing that is impossible to ignore in this wholesome collection is Walker's devotion to black female writers- a deep appreciation for them and a reverence for their work.
Some of these feel a little dated now, but many of them are still so relevant, and that was actually kind of depressing.
The lesson I take from reading these now is that we can never, ever stop fighting for equal rights and social justice b/c the second we let our guard down and just try to relax, thinking, OK, now there are these legal rights, now we can just live life...
Nope, the assholes are always waiting to take back whatever little amount of privilege they lost.
A book of essays by Ms. Walker, who is one of my favorite authors. My favorite ones are the ones with reference to Zora Neale Hurston. This if full of ideas that may usually be linked to feminism, but Walker instead coins the term "womanism" as she feels black women were left out of the feminist movement dominated by white women.
I do not remember anything about this book except one lesson I learned from it: Envisoning your future is the key to overcoming your obstacles. This one factor has been key to the nature of my existence changing from surviving to thriving. Thank you Ms. Alice Walker.
I first read Alice Walker's collected essays, In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens: Womanist Prose, shortly after it was released in 1984.
While she worked a single theme here – how her race and gender influence art and how both are perceived and influenced by an unjust society – her thinking is like a diamond, taking different perspectives and tones by turns.
I would like to say that Walker's essays read as dated and irrelevant now, but that would be untrue.
36) And about self-acceptance, as learned from her young daughter, who saw a world in Walker's blinded eye: Yes indeed, I realized, looking into the mirror.
If you read my recent review of Alice Walker's famous novel The Color Purple, then you'll know that I think she is an excellent novelist.
Well, dear readers, the good news is that she is also an incredible essayist.
If you know me or if you've read my blog, you know that I don't usually read non-fiction.
It usually bores me, and takes me forever to read.
It's that good.
The writing is excellent, and I learned so much about the experiences of black women, especially in the South.
This was a huge book for me in my twenties - I love the short story about her looking for Zora Neale Hurston's grave and putting the tombstone on it herself - very inspiring and spoke to so much in my life - she lifts me up as a woman when I need a pick me up, cries with me when I am inconsolable and dance with joy as women do. Awesome book
I felt like this was super necessary reading for me as a) a black woman, b) a writer, c) a woman-loving-woman & (burgeoning) womanist, and d) a woman actively seeking to defy categorization while also demanding adequate representation, visibility, and respect in her identity. So powerful. Walker's prose continues to be an inspiration to me and speak to me long after I've left it.
This book made me cry. Poetry and essays on civil-rights, feminism, motherhood. Alice Walker rules.
I am starting to read more womanist literature and hope to get into some research eventually, so if anyone has any recommendations, I would gladly welcome them!
Alice Walker, In Search of Our Mother’s Gardens, Pt. 1 This month hasn’t really been a poetry month; I might even dare to say that this year hasn’t been a poetry year. Even though I love the art of poetry, I have more recently found it difficult to connect, especially when I’m not in the mood (by which I mean, I find it hard to write and read poetry when it feels like more important things are going on in the world and in myself. It distresses me that when I’m feeling too deeply, I seem to lose
Even though I love the art of poetry, I have more recently found it difficult to connect, especially when I’m not in the mood (by which I mean, I find it hard to write and read poetry when it feels like more important things are going on in the world and in myself.
I don’t know what this means for me as writer, that I can’t seem to write to express myself.)	In any case, a part of my journey to regain my poetic voice, has been reading more work by other writers like myself, the ones who seem to have the words I’m looking for.
every time i read this it is a different book. this time it was about a black woman in a very particular political/historical moment, between kennedy and reagan, exploring feminism, facing up to old ghosts, and maybe most importantly researching, hunting up hurston and grimke to feed a hunger for ancestors.
Will type up full review later. But suffice it to say, this is phenomenal.
Walker's collection of essays, starting with her first published article from 1967 on the Civil Rights movement to work she wrote in the 1980s about her process as a writer and as a reader of forgotten/overlooked African American's works (including Jean Toomer, Rebecca Jackson, and, of course, her "aunt" Zora Neale Hurston), is a heavy collection that offers a great critical insight into gender, sexuality, and race.
It is interesting how she positions the child throughout her essays: as a mother of a daughter and the former writer of history books for preschool children, she both considers the child within herself and the children growing up during and after the Civil Rights era.
To future readers of this collection of essays -- first read Zora Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching God. I was very happy that I'd read Hurston's book first because so much of Walker's discourse is about Hurston and her book.
We read this book for book club and my basic response was the realization that I learned so much from it -- I almost felt as if I should be taking notes -- and for me, that is an enjoyable feeling.
And while covering such topics, the book still reads quite easily.
I need to re-read this to assign stars (how presumptuous that appears in the face of this sort of book). This collection helped shape the better part of my teenage self, though I wonder if I found validation for my habits (say, "Everyday Use") a bit too conveniently. Regardless of my possible shortcomings in using the works to identify myself, I still feel grateful to Walker for getting her writings into the public's hands.
Perhaps the best book of essays I've ever read, and one of the first. The title refers to one essay where the author visits the home of female white southern author Flannery O'Connor, now deceased, and discovers a familial connection. I still remember the peacocks on the property, though I've not read (and reread and reread) this book for years.
It appears they are doomed to be eternal transients.”“If the Civil Rights Movement is “dead”, and if it gave us nothing else, it gave us each other forever.
It gave some of us bread, some of us shelter, some of us knowledge and pride, all of us comfort...It gave us history and men far greater than Presidents.
It gave us heroes, selfless men of courage and strength, for our little boys and girls to follow.
There is also plenty on her love of reading, especially southern literature, including her infatuation with  Zora Neale Hurston and Flannery O' Connor.
An excellent read.
It took me a little over 2 years to complete this book. I savored it, treating every passage I read like a fine dessert I’d never have the pleasure of enjoying again in life. This is required reading for anyone on the femme spectrum, who refers to themselves as a feminist, for anyone Black, or any combination of the three.Every woman needs to read this book to truly understand the plight and politics of being a woman - especially a woman who doesn’t look like themselves. Two years to finish and I’m already missing reading this treasure.
It taught me a lot about why I love being me, why I love being a woman and why I love being black.
It gave us our children, our husbands, our brothers, our fathers, as men reborn and with a purpose for living.
1967""Fortunately, what Sarah Lawrence teaches is a lesson called “How to Be Shocked and Dismayed but Not Lie Down and Die,” and those of you who have learned this lesson will never regret it, because there will be ample time and opportunity to use it Your job, when you leave here—as it was the job of educated women before you—is to change the world.
For you will find, as women have found through the ages, that changing the world requires a lot of free time.
Martin King, with Coretta at his side, gave the South to black people, and reduced the North to an option.
A 3.5/5 since I couldn't finish the whole book and have to base my review on the first 35% of the book that I read, and because Walker is one of my favourite.This book is a collection of essays, lectures and works of criticisms and focuses on so many diverse things as her inspirations and authors she grew up with, her changed relationships with them and their memories, the essays about Flannery O'Connor and Jean Toomer were great!
I couldn't get to the titular essay which I was most excited about, but the other essays I read, I loved them all.I started reading this while I was also reading In Love and Trouble, which is an amazing collection.
“I come out of a tradition where those things are valued; where you talk about a woman with big legs and big hips and black skin.
I am a black woman, and I will stand as best I can in that imagery” Bernice Reagon, Black Women and Liberation MovementsThis book is a collection of essays written by Walker about prominent African American authors that made an impact on her life.
Womanist is from the black folk expression of mothers to female children, “you acting womanish” also known as acting like a woman.
Searching for the meaning of being a black writer during a tumultuous time in the US history.
Covering large segments of her formative years from her childhood in a segregated South, struggling in a non-accepting community when she and her white husband came to live in south as the only interracial couple, to her older self in a more integrated community.
The meaning of family, acceptance, community.Community/ social change: The impact of martin luther king jr.
Un-Covers history, prejudices (white person's, black person's, my own) and takes you to places you dont want to go/ remember.The piece on the surroundings of writing of color purple is just precious added gem.
The essays in this collection of prose are heavy with the delicateness of feminine power, revealing the strength of and for black women artists.
I am not a black woman, so it is very hard to relate to many of the issues Alice discusses in which her mother, grandmother, sisters, friends, etc.
I appreciate Alice's ability to present them as immediate works to the fullest, and am inspired none the less.
The stories about Zora's grave and the last chapter about the world in her eye will stay with me, but my favorite essay remains In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens
Really compelling to see Alice Walker's genius brought to bear on so many different topics: homosexuality, race, feminism, Israel, Cuba, literary criticism, religion, and more.Definitely a good book and one you should read, but a few minor notes.
I wish there had been heavier editing to cut some of the repetition between pieces (or, like a lot of collections, it should be read one piece at a time with breaks between them to forget the less important parts).
Some of the first half of the collection has pieces that feel like they end abruptly.
A lot of the dialogue, I'm guessing approximations, didn't feel natural.
An essay collection ranging from personal recollections to political one's, from feminism and motherhood to the Civil Rights Movement, Cuba, and Israel.Alice Walker is an excellent essayist. Her essays are melodious, their topics are -even 30 or 40 years later- still relevant. I learnt a lot about life, feminism, African American culture and literature. Her essay In Search Of Our mother's Gardens should be teached in schools and universities alongside Virginia Woolf. I highly recommend this collection - not only for fans of Alice Walker, but for everyone who is interesting in learning and growing as a person.
This collection of essays made me wish that I knew Alice Walker. Her writing is not only inspiring, beautiful, and passionate, but also horizon-widening to those of us who know too little of the Civil Rights Movement, African-American writers, and the experience of being dark-skinned in a society that so highly prizes pale skin. I really respect the thoughtful way that she writes about the world and her personal experiences, tempering passion with the occasional acknowledgment that there may be motives and unperceived forces that will never be absolutely understood.
alice walker is the newest addition to my panoply of gurus. she is totally tapped in to some divine and earthly truths that the rest of us only skim the surface of. so reading her feels like a gift, a meditation, an education, a revelation. this is the second of her essay collections i've read and while some of the material is a little dated, i couldn't help but marvel that so many of these essays were written when she was younger than i am now. such a wise and inspiring woman.
