https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1268479.Warbreaker
AHHHWHAT JUSTI need the next book. Now. And I don't have it. What do I do!?
(I personally find it moving like a Ferrari compared to the last book I read so I have that going for me.)Warbreaker's pacing reminds me a lot to Well of Ascension, book 2 of the Mistborn trilogy, the pacing can be a bit slow sometimes cause it builds up heavily for the intense and great climax.
The magic this time is called Breath and as I mentioned before, it revolves a bit around Colors.
A man cannot claim to be a fantasy fan if a man hasn't read Brandon Sanderson at least once in his lifetime. “My life to yours. My Breath become yours.” I feel like I was dormant Before. An inanimate object patiently awaiting, until Brandon Sanderson infused my molecules with Breath, until he Awakened me and gave me senses, feelings, purpose. Ever since I finished Warbreaker, my mind floats and wanders around Cosmere, and I can't seem to find the courage nor the will to come back.It's unsettling
While adjusting to the surroundings of Idris and Hallandren, as well as grasping the meaning of Breath and Awakening, was a timely prodecure - thus the 4.5 stars - the fact that Brandon Sanderson's talent is unrivaled remains undisputed.
The plot consisted of complicated schemes, power bids and war preparations; you followed Vivenna's journey to undermine the ability of her opponents to conduct war and save her little sister; Siri on her quest to survive in a court that only needed her womb; and Lightsong the Bold on his efforts to prove that he is not worthy, that no one should depend on him, that he is a joke of a god.
"My life to yours. My Breath become yours.”  Buddy read with my homies at fantasy buddy reads & some of my favorite people;1.  Mary2. Patty3.Celeste  4.Choko  HOLY SHITSLAP MY ASS AND CALL ME SUE! WHAT IN GODS NAME DID I JUST READ?! ILL TELL YOU WHAT, A FUCKING MASTERPIECE.   “Every man is a hero of his own story."  This book was absolutely mind blowing good, it took my breath away & now I'm a drab, I am once again at a loss for words after another Sanderson book. Seriously how does he
This is one of my favorite things about Sandersons writing style, I love the slow burn & the build up (I feel like I might die of a heart attack everytime the build up starts its just intense to say the least).
This book had such a fantastic ending that I almost jumped out of my seat cheering for the characters I loved & I was so shocked to find out who the bad guy was, let me just say I never expected it to be that person.
Worldbuilding:This world is another brand new concept to me, based on color, and, honestly, it probably wouldn't have worked if it wasn't so easy to visualize (b/c not a visual person).I don't have a movie playing in my head as I'm reading a book.
(hide spoiler)]Everything else:This is only my second Sanderson read, but in addition to the character(s)-you-don't-like, other patterns are also emerging.
It makes me feel like I understand the author and his story-telling process, so when he does one of those things that are typical of him, I can sit back and say, "That Sanderson .
look at him doing that thing he does," b/c it feels like I know him.
4.5 I always have a hard time reviewing Brandon Sanderson's books. As always the world building and the magic system is what makes this book amazing. I really liked the story and the twist I didn't see coming. I would totally recommend this books and cannot wait for the sequel since the title is the name of one of my favorite character... a talking sword :P
This is not on the same level for me as Mistborn but I do have a feeling that I'll appreciate this one even more as time goes on and I'm looking forward to discussing it more in detail during with my gush video!
It says a lot when the only interesting characters in a book are; a Sword, and a God-King who is mute.
In a 500+ page book with only ONE kissing scene, the plot and characters need to be exceptional.
With the exception of Nightsong- the Sword-, the other characters were drab despite the author's valiant attempts.I was lost.
Varied tangents, all meandering toward a climax; however, there were many unanswered questions.The author should have shown us THAT last scene between Lightsong and the mute God-King.
Vivenna's whole journey was amazing and reminded me a lot of Aelin in Heir of Fire (which is one of my favorite books, so that's a good thing).
I guess I was hoping for a bit more from the end of the story, but it's still a new favorite for sure!There were actually a lot of elements in this book that reminded me of the Mistborn series, so that was fun.
I keep saying at the end of every year that I want to read the rest of his books, so I'm going for it in 2018...
"It's funny, Vasher thought, how many things begin with my getting thrown into prison."Warbreaker is one of those books that I will think back on and say "Wow that was a really well balanced fantasy novel." And by well balanced I mean that everything was in perfect proportion.
The number of perspectives, the intricacy of the plot, the pace of action, everything was just perfectly well written.I want to take a moment and explain a small thing about myself and why this book, as well as Sanderson's other works, are among my favorite fantasy novels.
My Breath become yours."Brandon Sanderson has wonderful ideas of magical powers system, belief and political.
WOW, WOW, WOW!This is a very different kind of fantasy book.This is an unusual Sanderson's book.
I feel this book completed adult version.'Warbreaker' genres are mystery, magic and the politics of divinity.Lots of characters are stupendous!
My favourite characters are Lightsong the Bold, Llarimar, Nightblood, Vasher, Siri, Susebron and Vivenna but Lightsong the Bold is my number one favourite character.These characters in the book are melded complex, believable characters, a marvellous world and thoughtful, ironic humour into extraordinary and highly entertaining story.I love this book so much.
This has to be the slowest beginning to any Sanderson book I have read to date.
Once the politics and characters personalities starting taking shape I got more invested, but was still searching for that WOW factor I always feel in Sanderson's works.
Sanderson knows how to end a book.
Sanderson is so sneaky, and it makes reading his books even more fun.
As I said above, the story didn't really grab my interest until the politics and characters personalities starting taking shape.
If you enjoy political intrigue and character driven stories with twists and turns, give Warbreaker a try.
Like his other books this had great world building, a fantastic and unique system of magic, and a ton of memorable characters.
It had mystery, romance, surprises, intrigue, action, and great characters.
As far as the rest of the main characters went, I liked both the sisters ( Vivenna and Siri ) but did find Vivenna a tad annoying in the middle of the book, she did redeem herself in the end.
There really was an absolute ton of great characters in this book and it's a bit of a shame that it's a stand alone novel and not a series as there is far more stories that could be told in this world.
And so, to avoid war, one of them must leave her home to marry the God King of Hallandren, a man reputed to be a monster.Read a book by Brandon Sanderson, and certain things are guaranteed to appear.
Religion has always fascinated me however, and the mythology surrounding the God King of Hallandren and the Court of Gods was perhaps what I enjoyed the most about this book.
That is not meant in any negative way, but despite the innovative magic system and the developed religious system that are apparently mandatory in a Sanderson book, this is not particularly complex.
“My life to yours. My Breath become yours.” This book blew me away, I love everything about it from the very first page to the last one. I was neither bored nor annoyed by any of the characters, I love them all, I don't even hate the villains, they are just to wise but I love how things ended for everyone despite their loss, it was worth the gain.This book has a very complex but simple magic system that I love so much, the magic use colour and breath, if you are familiar with Sanderson then you
I was neither bored nor annoyed by any of the characters, I love them all, I don't even hate the villains, they are just to wise but I love how things ended for everyone despite their loss, it was worth the gain.This book has a very complex but simple magic system that I love so much, the magic use colour and breath, if you are familiar with Sanderson then you already know what a good job he did.
His POV is action filled and I just can’t help but love his conversation with Nightblood, his talking sword.
What is better than Pi day (3.14)? A Warbreaker reread/buddy read starting on Pi Day with my felllow Sandersonitis friends at  Fantasy Buddy Reads This is a private group. Let me know if you need an invite.What made this book Awesome all over again? Two Characters Vasher and Nightblood!!!  Would you like to destroy some evil today?  Original Review Jun 2014:4.25 StarsBuddy read with Athena and Alexa. I have Sandersonitis – Symptoms include- Bleary eyes from reading too long or staying up too lat
I have Sandersonitis – Symptoms include- Bleary eyes from reading too long or staying up too late- Knocking yourself in the head for missing the clues and being blindsided- Pain in your arm from holding your book or kindle for hours on end- Excessive potty breaks at work to sneak a chapter in- Tears randomly falling down you face for character deaths- Swearing at family and friends with words like Colors, Stormfather, Harmony’s Armbands or Lord Ruler- Laughing out loud randomly at clever side character banter- And randomly trying to use magic from these books because I’m sure the physical laws of this world might change at any moment and I’m sure I could easily be an Awakener, Allomancer or Shardbearer once they do.This is my 8th Brandon Sanderson book and while I’ve read eight books by other authors you always know their pattern or formula for the books and they get a bit repetitive.
This time the magic system depends on the human "breath" , which is something like the spark of our soul, though not the soul itself, which gives us the joy and true vision of our lives.
These gods are led by the G-d King, a Returned as a baby and gifted with an inordinate amount of breaths, making him a singularly powerful individual.This is kind of the set up for the story and where things begin.
It is worth the read and is a perfect gateway to Sanderson's work.
Colours were just colours until I read this book. After reading this, it is pretty much obvious that Sanderson is a much bigger genius than Einstein ever was. I wonder where he gets his ideas from, did he look at a paint set one day and then came up with Biochroma? I guess we'll never know.Turns out that I can't marry a book, unfortunately. ”My life to yours, My breath become yours.” I enjoyed reading this very much, the characters were spot on, plot was intriguing and most importantly the magic
I enjoyed reading this very much, the characters were spot on, plot was intriguing and most importantly the magic system was amazing.
I went into this story pretty much blind, All I knew was a hint about the magic system and the character Lightsong whom I came to love.World buildingWhen Sanderson builds a world, it always feels like a place that exists on the map.
I love Nightblood, he's a talking sword, kinda.
Vasher thought.I need fresh air, Nightblood said.
He was the first character I fell for and I heard a lot about him even before I read this book.
In Warbreaker, Brandon Sanderson gives readers imaginative epic fantasy world-building along with a good story (what one generally comes to expect from Sanderson and which he consistently delivers on).
I enjoyed the story of the two heroines, Vivenna and Siri.
In the face of impending war with Hallendron, they are forced to take on new and unexpected roles, both for their own survival, as well as the survival of their kingdom.
While I enjoyed Warbreaker, the middle suffered a bit.
That said, I've been enjoying Sanderson's characters and worlds, and find Sanderson to be a really good story-teller.
*** Revamped, spoiler-free review ***What a colorful world Brandon Sanderson crafted in Warbreaker!
A particularity of Sanderson's books is his talent at creating amazing magic systems, intricate and yet easy to understand.
In Warbreaker, the magic system is original, again!, and quite amazing.
But beyond the originality and uniqueness of Sanderson's magics and worlds, I don't think his work would be as popular and engaging without his brilliant characterization.
ConclusionOverall, Warbreaker was a fun read and a different kind of fantasy, with a major focus on the characters' development and interactions.
“What I'm trying to say is that you don't understand a man until you understand what makes him do what he does. Every man is a hero of his own story.”   4.5 Stars: ✰✰✰✰ This book left me just as impressed as it did the first time. It's interesting, because this book is so completely different from any other of Brandon's books that I can think of, and rereading it two years later (now with all of the other Cosmere books in my brain) I picked up on a lot of things that I didn't understand the fi
It's interesting, because this book is so completely different from any other of Brandon's books that I can think of, and rereading it two years later (now with all of the other Cosmere books in my brain) I picked up on a lot of things that I didn't understand the first time through.
By giving us POVs from both sides of this story (The Royalty and the Court of Gods), Sanderson develops some great, well-rounded characters at the same time as developing extremely important worldbuilding points.
At times, the dialogue between these characters seemed childish rather than witty, and I didn't really feel like it added a whole lot to the story.
Warbreaker's 2017 Cosmere Reread before Oathbringer is DONE! Colours that was as awesome as ever! There are still so many secrets!!! I love this book! One more exclamation! :D------------------------------------------------  “My life to yours. My Breath become yours.”   Warbreaker is the story of two very different sisters, who happen to be princesses, the God King one of them has to marry, the lesser god who doesn't like his job, and the immortal who's still trying to undo the mistakes he made
There are ten levels or 'Heightenings' of this magic.Any amount of Breath allows Awakening: the ability to, through specific commands, call inanimate objects to life by investing Breath in them and draining the color from another object (Awakeners usually carry a few pieces of cloth for this purpose).
Objects of a greater size require more Breath, as do objects directed to carry out complicated commands.
Breath can be regained from objects by the person who invested them with the command "Your Breath to mine."Despite disliking one character early on, there weren't any that I didn't enjoy by the time I finished the book.
SANDERSON, YOU FUCKIN' GENIUS! *sobs* I can't review this book. I refuse to! How in gods earth do I form coherent sentences when my mind has been obliterated into pieces?! I'm in damn awe! My emotions are in a state of frenzy! If you haven't jumped on the bandwagon that is Brandon Sanderson, you haven't lived. Over and out.
It affects people's political views, motivation and their religious beliefs and clash of those beliefs is the turning wheel of this story.The heart and soul of Warbreaker is political suspense and a mystery.
The plot thickens with every page and there are a few twists and turns along the way that make for a very unpredictable voyage.The characters are very well written.
If characters manage to make me laugh, make me feel sad for them or even make me mad, I call that a job well done.Sanderson created a colorful world full of intrigue and mystery, the story was gripping and full of twists and mind games.
They build slowly, giving the reader time to become invested in the lives of the characters, but the last hundred or so pages progress at breakneck speed, with plot twists on almost every page.
Sanderson even utilizes characters to explain his magic systems and religions instead of explaining them himself, which makes them so much more interesting.
(Also, he's the most prolific fantasy author, in my eyes; he shows his readers love by working incredibly hard to get us new books as quickly as possible!)One day, I’ll reread the other Sanderson books I’ve read up until this point and give them the reviews they deserve.
Enjoyed this a lot.
One thing I admire about this author is his dedication to world-building.
This is the third world I've read by him where he's invented a new type of magic system that is fresh and interesting.
It takes a lot of road-paving to get something this unique through to the audience, and the beginning is a bit slow because of it, but I really enjoyed the characters and the magic system.
I will be eagerly awaiting the next book, because the characters are quite interesting and the world deserves more exploration.
The whole "god" aspect was also quite refreshing and new.
I think everybody has read Sanderson at this point so I don't know what to offer other than this has all of his hallmarks. Compelling characters, good storyline, distinct magic system, ties into the Cosmere......check, check, check....Hopefully we'll see book two at some point.
Full review now updated.In honor of  WeRateDogs  one year anniversary:  "This... is Sanderson's good book. We only rate bad Sanderson. Please send bad Sanderson. Thank you. 12/10"  No, it's actually more like 2.66. In pretty much uneven and yawn enticing plot-wise book lies a hidden gem called  Lightsong. To me, he is the most interesting character  Sanderson  created in his entire  Cosmere Universe.  For 60-70% of this book, that is. Later, as predictable, he suffered from author’s inability to
And of course, to have a choice not to like such prospects.I’m already looking dearly at Wabreaker, and I know, in few months and maybe couple of years, when I look back at this book, I’ll see it as a really fun and entertaining book that honestly surprised me how polar opposite was from everything I’ve read from Brandon so far.Firstly, I didn’t expect poor worlbuilding and laughable magic system (for crying out loud, they breed magical breaths in each other).
And we can all agree that Brandon usually really excels in these things.Secondly, what I also didn’t expect, was to find a well-developed character (almost) throughout the entire book that I will care deeply about.
But if Warbreaker is anything to look at (and considering that he works at so many stories at once) the man is a prolific genius in my opinion.How can I describe this book and why I loved it.
I loved the magic system (something that I do see in Sanderson novels).
I did find the end a little rushed and I still wondered about the history of this world but compared to how good the book was those were little faults.The story follows two girls, some mercenaries, a unique mysterious warrior, a flippant god, several other gods/goddesses and the God King of this world.
4.5/5 stars"Protect a flower, destroy pests who wanted to feed on it. Protect a building, destroy the plants that could have grown in the soil. Protect a man. Live with the destruction he creates.”The problem with reading Brandon Sanderson is that after you want to read more Brandon Sanderson. I've tried reading two books after, but nothing just holds up. If there ever was a book that played me for a fool - this is it. I spent 60 percent of the book rooting for the wrong guy and hating a very de
Now I also understand why people say that Clef from Foundryside is basically Nightblood's "twin" (by the way, if you haven't read Foundryside by Robert Bennett, I highly recommend that you do so - great industrial fantasy!).​Vivienna is Siri's opposite, in every way imaginable - but I loved how their thoughts and insecurities kept intertwining, in the end they were more similar than they knew.
The book was published in 2009, and in 2016 there were some mentions of book 2, which is going to be titled Nightblood, but we're in the later half of 2018 and no news yet.
