https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211746.The_Goat_Foot_God
I kept thinking that Hugh reminded me of Mr. Toad in Wind in the Willows, running about in his motor car with his leather coat and cap. Then I saw today that a usually omitted chapter of Wind and the Willows is the talk of England. And...guess what...it's about Pan. Hugh and Mr. Toad have more in common than liking to drive fast! Still going on this book. It's a treat!
I first read this book when I was a 20-something.
I just re-read it as a 60-something, and gosh, it's improved a whole lot.
They made me wince, but I read on.However, the core of the novel -- the occult ideas and her proto-feminist views -- are well worth the read despite the flaws.
The plot revolves around a profound change in the character of the male protagonist, a change he works hard to bring to fruition.
I cheered him on and felt great sympathy for the female protagonist as well.
I've read this one a second time -- would read it again. A book that begins in a bookstore on a dark night in the rain -- magic from the start.
Ineffectual and directionless outside of his hobbies (car racing, big game hunting, that sort of thing), the recent widower stumbles into a dingy second-hand bookshop where a chance encounter with occult intimations in a detective novel leads him into a journey into esoteric traditions that winds up being a journey into the hidden recesses of his own soul.
I liked a lot of things about this novel; Fortune has a wealth of esoteric lore that she works seamlessly into her plot, there are several well-turned, witty and resonant examples of the bon mot, the whole thing is written in this Britain-between-the-wars prose that is a personal weakness of mine.
This occult fiction by Dion Fortune isn't quite as good as some of her others (The Sea Priestess, Moon Magic, The Demon Lover). Like many of her novels, it is about a male protagonist undergoing spiritual transformation, this time via the Greek God Pan. A lot of exposition and set up for a climax that was a bit too brief.
A very instructional read A great insightful read and one every Pagan should read and own. I own both the Kindle and a 1st edition....
Per ora il miglior libro di Dion Fortune che ho letto. Scritto bene, moderno e scorrevole, con un filo di ironia e personaggi simpatici, primo fra tutto il libraio Jelkes, trasandato e un po' dispotico.C'è una storia d'amore che non invade il libro e le idee della Fortune sulle divinità. Pan qui è protagonista, sia come forza psicologica che energetica.Piacevolissimo anche se non ci si interessa di occultismo.
As usual, I haven't finished this yet -- but unlike usual, I fully intend to! It's just that my Hoopla hold is about to expire. I am up to chapter 18, about 53% finished. It's a fun and very Britishy one.
This is a well-written book.
Interesting story: Hugh makes a traumatic discovery about his wife after she dies.
In his grief he wanders into a lower class neighborhood and befriends a book dealer.
This a smooth and comfortable to read.
But do not mistake what I say to mean it is an easy read.
Virtually all of the discussions throughout the book are clearly those of well-educated people.
I liked the characters and could easily visualize them as I read the book.
I closed the book for the last time feeling quite fulfilled by both the characters and their actions.
I found the story enjoyable, but the prose contained many idiomatic British phrases that I found confusing as much as distancing from the emotional context of each scene. The prose style reminded me of Agatha Christie and Dorothy L. Sayers.The male protagonist's spiritual journey was central to the story, and the female character was more peripheral and less developed. Though I identified less with the characters, I found the import of the book to be meaningful. The close of the novel gives way to introspection about what it means to have an alter ego, and how it can be healthy.
At the beginning I loved this book. However, about half way through it became tedious and boring, I had to gloss over some pages as there seemed too much about psychoanalysis, almost as if she was trying to talk the reader into understanding the brain of Paganism. Anyhow, some parts were really enjoyable and interesting to read, mainly at the start of the story, so it got 3 stars from me.
Quite a silly British-flavoured, magick-tinged love story where nothing really significant happens. There is an excellent description of strong tea and a very good bit about rich English guys not recognizing signs of malnutrition in their girlfriends. A nice (but goofy) read for a modern-day witch or Pagan. I read this when I was homeless and it helped take my mind off my bad situation.
