https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/842464.Petunia
basically, there's this goose and she figures that if she waddles around with a book under her wing, then all the other animals will assume she is smart, even though she doesn't really know what books are for, just that they are associated with wisdom.
she's just using it as a smart-prop.
deceitful goose!and the other barnyard animals fall for it, the dummies!!
they ask her advice and her opinions and every single time she gives her answers, someone gets hurt, either physically or emotionally, because she really has no idea what she's doing, the goose is just winging it.but the unread book gives her confidence; she doesn't even realize the horror she leaves behind in her wake, and she becomes more and more proud.
This is the first children's Christian book I've ever gotten.In a charming tale set in a farmyard, Petunia the silly goose believes she has become wise just because she finds a book.
All farm animals saw her carrying the book believed in her wisdom and seek her advice, and suffered horrible consequences from her unwise counsel, until she told everyone to open a box labeled "Candy" but instead, it was firecrackers and everyone got hurt.At the end she realized:"Now I understand.
She had thought that merely holding a book provides wisdom.
Silly animals!
They thought that she had become wise because she had the appearance of wisdom.
“Now I understand. It was not enough to carry wisdom under my wing. I must put it in my mind and in my heart. And to do that I must learn to read.” -Petunia (by Roger Duvoisin).
In this adventure, Petunia mistakenly thinks that she is a wise animal when she stumbles upon a book lying on the ground and she how tries to give the other animals uncanny advice about their problems.
“Petunia” is an excellent book about the importance of true wisdom that young children will enjoy for many years.
Roger Duvoisin’s writing is hilarious and dramatic at the same time as he details the story of how Petunia tries to help all the farm animals, but ends up making all the other animals miserable as they go through painful trials from Petunia’s advice.
This little book provides perfect opportunities to interact with a child while reading. Every time Petunia encounters a problem, the kids suggest possible solutions and then we read what Petunia has to say. Before seeing the result, the kids choose which solution they think would work the best.And, of course, I love the reference to 'wisdom.' I wish that wisdom would once again be something we, as a society, value.
Petunia finds a book and carries it around with her, thinking that she is suddenly wiser than everyone else in the farmyard, with disastrous results. She discovers that "It was not enough to carry wisdom under my wing. I must put it in my mind and in my heart. And to do that I must learn to read." Nice story and a good encouragement for children to learn to read.
Best book for preachers I've ever read.
My earliest childhood memories center around two books that my mother would read to me. Petunia with head in the clouds and her foot in her mouth was always a favorite story to hear. Even a three old knew that it couldn't turn out well. Such joyous memories!
If you have a child who's acting a little hesitant about learning to read, this book might do the trick! As Petunia learns, it's not enough just *having* a book, real knowledge comes from learning to read and discovering what books say. It's also a good lesson about pride and the consequences it can have on you and your friends. Ages 3+Cleanliness: a hen says "Good gracious."
For my 3-5 grades, I wondered if they would just turn off--thinking it was a "baby book" (hate it when they say that!), but even my 5th graders seemed to enjoy the story--with 4th ad 5th really getting the humor that seemed to go over the heads of some of my younglings.
As for library lessons with my older students, Petunia offered a good opportunity to explore the concept of main idea as the lesson a character learns in a story and how main idea can vary with our own unique perspectives.
She knows that books hold wisdom and so she decides to carry around the book under her wing so she can become wise.
Of course, she doesn't gain a single bit of wisdom in that way, just a lot of pomposity, but the other animals are very impressed--until she starts to give them horrible advice.
The overall concept of this book is that books equal knowledge, and not understanding a book can lead to catastrophe.
This is a little extreme for children books I feel and might even scare young readers.
Since the pictures are still from the 1950's, they are simple and cartoon like, which might not be appealing to all kids as the backgrounds are covered in pure whiteness.
The advice Petunia gives is creative, but when the animals start getting injured and the truth is not being told, the book becomes a turn off to the readers, and the resolution comes too late to rectify or save the book.
Excellent book written in 1950 for children. You could use this to teach so many things! Petunia is a duck who thinks she is wise because she found a book and carries it everywhere. She does not know how to read, but a friend once told her "He who owns books and loves them is wise." Other barn friends begin seeking her advice, until one day Petunia's pride puts her friends in danger.... great read, with lots of truths to be extracted!
Petunia is wise because she found a book. So her smugness makes her grow.All the animals think she is wise.She starts giving the animals the wrong advice.At one point, a box of TNT is involved.All the animals get hurt.Petunia opens the book and reads it, It is an ABC book.THE END.Yeah, I don't even know what to say about this one.
Silly Petunia the goose thinks that simply owning a book will make her wise. This book, written 51 years ago, still amuses young readers--and me! A great story about reading.
I read this book to Henry tonight. What a depressing book. Petunia leads the barnyard to ruin. Great. Now sweat dreams Henry.
Petunia learns that learning is more important than just appearing wise.
2010: My son and I really enjoyed this book. He liked the page where the firecrackers blow up. I love the illustrations, and also that it's about the value of books and the source of real knowledge.
What a cute story. I love the moral of this story -appearing to be wise is not as good as BEING wise. Showing off books doesn't mean you have read them nor gained wisdom from them.
I loved Petunia the duck! I'm so happy to see that the book is still in print and being read by future Petunia-lovers!
I do have to buy this sometime. I was given this as a young girl and I think it really affected me at the time. The story is about the problems with pride.
Petunia ist ein ganz besondere Ganz, denn Sie hebt sich ab von den anderen Tieren auf dem Bauernhof.
Die stolze Ganz trägt ein Buch unter dem Flügel und ist sowas wie der Rat der Tiere, bis es eines Tages durch kleine Probleme die stolze Ganz sieht, dass ein Buch nicht klug macht.Roger Duvisin hat hier ein Kinderbuch geschaffen für Kinder im Alter von ca.
Die Kinder lernen, dass wenn man liest sich viel Wissen aneignen kann aber dadurch nicht unbedingt schlauer wird.Ich habe das Buch mehrmals mit meinem kleinen Sohn gelesen und ihn danach gefragt, was Petunia jetzt gerade tut.
"He who owns books and loves them is wise." Petunia, the silly goose, finds a book and believes herself wise because she now possesses a valuable object.
She becomes proud and spouts (bad) advice to all the farmyard animals, each time causing them more and more sorrow until at last things literally blow up.
And to do that I must learn to read." So she begins to study so that she can right her wrongs and make her animal friends happy.•Who doesn't love a book that promotes the love of books and reading?!
A bright, colorful, and silly read.
This is one of the children's books I read when I was very young that for some reason made a big impression on me.
I still carry with me the image of Petunia with the book tucked under her wing, growing more and more proud of her imagined wisdom.
From time to time during my academic career I have felt an uncomfortable resemblance to her, when curriculum books and articles lay untouched on my desk while at the same time my sense of my professional identity grew.
Petunia the goose spy's something in the meadow, it's a book. She remembers the farmer saying books make you wise. She keeps the book and ends up getting to proud for her own good. When the other animals ask for her wisdom ,she gives bad advice.When a firecracker explodes she realizes she is not so wise. She opens the book and sees she must learn to read to become truly. wise.teaching application- This is a nice story to teach about being humble. It also shows that reading can teach you many things about life.
I think that I've read this before, but for some reason it didn't stick. Which isn't a good sign. But jeepers I sure did enjoy it this time. I laughed at the silly advice Petunia gave all the animals, especially the rooster who knew all along why his comb is red. And I appreciated that she figured out the lesson to be learned all by herself... inspirational, that way. I will check out the sequels that I saw on the library shelf.
I hadn’t read this book as a child but should be a classic children’s book as it teaches us the importance of not fibbing about knowing or not knowing something as important as the ability to read. Would have been a childhood favorite and in retrospect, as a childish adult who loves children’s books, as much today as when I was a kid, will induct into the Hall of Childhood Favorites!!.
Petunia understands that books are treasures, and when she finds one she carries it around to become wise. Farmyard antics cause her to understand that she needs to actually open the book and read what's inside to benefit from that wisdom.
I love Petunia!! I recently discovered the Petunia series of books, and fell in love with her instantly. She's a great character, and I adored reading about her adventures after she found a Book one day whilst out in the meadow.
It's easy to see why this book is such a classic - it's hilarious and stands the test of time so well! Silly goose, your mistakes would be a lot of fun to point out with a little one in your lap, explaining away the pages.
