https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28095962-waiting-for-a-visa
On this constitution day, I decided to read an autobiographical work of Babasaheb Ambedkar, the father of India's constitution.This is a collection of real life incidents from the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar and a few others that are quite illustrative of the prevalence of the inhuman practice of untouchability, wherein Babasaheb asserts that a Savarna (upper caste Hindu) would rather be inhuman than touch an untouchable.The stories are vivid and quite heart-rending and they have been delivered in a most direct fashion without euphemism.
A good introduction to someone who isn't aware of the stratified state of Indian society and how even the Parsis, Muslims and perhaps Christians participated and even practiced untouchability.Eye opening short read recommended to all.
You can also read it on the website of the Columbia University.

Collection of True Accounts of Dr. B.R.Ambedkar's life, reflecting the mindsets of contemporary Indians.
The Land of the Sanatana Dharma, The Vedic Literature, The Itihasas, The puranas, Karmic Philosophy and yet this land can't hide its shame, its sin, its ignorance, its social evils.This one book enough to understand how disgusting Indian Social Fabric is, Caste is in the DNA of Indians, they take it with them wherever they go.
Indians will be infected with diseases of caste, language, religion and many other evils before they could realize anything.Waiting for a VISA is an apt title to this book, I assume that he desperately wanted to leave the country that treated his to all kinds of evils.
I cannot rate his autobiographical notes🙏🏼
The children had informed father by letter that they will arrive by train on such date and an attendant with transport – bullock cart should be arranged for them at the Railway Station.
He informed that enquired the Parsi lodge owner that he was a Hindu and wanted a room on rent.
He was informed that the local Tonga drivers refused to drive an untouchable on their Tonga.
So, the local untouchables hired a Tonga and drove the Tonga.
Fourth, Polluting the water at the fort in Daulatabad- With a group of untouchables, Ambedkar visited Verul (Ajanta) Caves near Aurangabad.
Amzaing.Should have read it before reading P E Sonkambles Athavaninche Pakshi
Happy coincidence that I read this right after Bhimayana.
this was very exitng book and i want to read.
