https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44236.The_Civil_War_Vol_1
You get detailed description day by day, even hour by hour of 1st and 2nd Bull Run, Shiloh, the Seven Days and Antietam, as well as the majority of the other major and minor engagements of the war.This book is a story of the grueling, bloody fight to the death between two countries that previously were one.
It is their stories, and the anecdotes that bring these people to live and serve as Foote's chief focus.Reading this book I learned about Lee's capacity to command and fatalistic determination to defend Richmond at all and any costs:
On a basic level, the war was over slavery, but the issue was translated into the North fighting to preserve the Union and the South fighting to preserve state rights, including the right to secede over differences in policy.
The Confederacy could recruit soldiers relatively easily for a fight framed as for independence by analogy with the Revolutionary War. The Union couldn’t sell war so easily to the populace, but a sense of superiority of might and revenge for shameful losses in the early battles was motivation enough not to require conscription.
Other books I’ve read are better at covering Lincoln’s political genius and challenges as Commander in Chief and at elucidating the economics and civilian experience of the war.
When reading this, it's hard not to recall the words of a colleague of mine who, while acknowledging the undoubted quality of this series, referred to Shelby Foote as a Southern sympathizer.
One can see the effort he puts into telling a two-sided story, and I think it largely pays off.There is an undeniable irony in noting that the Confederate generals who put such thoughts to paper chafed under the yoke of Northern oppressors without acknowledging the yokes they themselves imposed on the slaves who worked their farms and plantations.
In this first volume, we learn a great deal about Grant, Lee, Jackson, and McClellan.
I wanted a book that would take a year of my life to read, so 3,000 pages in three volumes, I thought this should fill the bill. Well into the second volume, I’ll be lucky if it lasts me the summer. Can’t put it down.
Most histories of the Civil War that I know pretty much concentrate on the four-year duel between the Army of the Potomac under McClellan (et al.
That it held on for as long as it did, with a string of incredible victories against seemingly insuperable odds, is a tribute to the military spirit of the men in butternut and their, for the most part, capable generals.Reading about the war from a Southern perspective is particularly interesting: We know about the dilatory fighting of the Army of the Potomac, but Foote also appraises us of the weaknesses of generals like Stonewall Jackson, P T Beauregard and Braxton Bragg.
Nearly fifty years later I’ve decided to re-read this great work.Volume One carries the story from the election of Lincoln to the battle of Perryville in Kentucky.
War histories turn a lot of people off because they focus on battles, which generally only serve to show the utter stupidity of mankind.
And of course, we have still not solved the issue of race no matter how hard we’ve tried in the last hundred and fifty years.This is a great book by a brilliant writer.
The fact that it is still in print (and even on the Kindle) fifty-four years after it was published says much about what a great work it is.
Thankfully, Foote keeps it utterly minimal to the point of it arguably not even existing and when I did notice it seemed to be only in a traditional sentimentality for "the underdog." This man was obviously not a moron so don't let the discussion of South bias turn you off, proud Yankees...and members of other countries that knew at the time pretty basic stuff like "slavery is bad." The light shines brilliantly on both sides and even traditionally revered Southern figures like "Stonewall" Jackson are shown to be occasionally totally useless and mystifying, as well as a total detriment to the engagement at hand.Speaking of engagements...if you are not into military history, don't even bother with this book.
He considered himself to be a historian but not an academic, and his extremely detailed knowledge of the Civil War coupled with his straight-forward writing style have produced works which have fascinated readers for decades.
That explains, in part, why the ground war in the main theater of operation covered in this first volume (mostly in Virginia and Maryland) resulted in the Southern forces gaining and retaining the initiative.
If you have any interest in American Civil War history, you owe it to yourself to read this book.
They were really interesting and very detailed portraits of all of the different personalities involved, especially the different generals involved on the Union side, and had some actually very funny anecdotes (my favorite one, though I can't remember which series it came from, was when Confederate soldiers accidentally stumbled upon resting Union animals in the woods at night, and a minor stampede of the Union mules had the Confederates retreating in confusion for not being able to see what was going on.
I wish I remember more about what I read, but I think it was hard for me to stick with a whole panoramic view of things because of all the details.
Extremely detailed narrative of the Civil War. Listening to the audio version of it and I really should be following more closely checking each battle out on the map as well, but I confess I'm not. I'm content with a rough visualization which may or may not be exact and probably isn't, even if this is my second or third time for reading up on some of these. Hope to return to again sometime.Well worth it. On to Volume 2!
I care for neither his prose style nor his biased viewpoint.Many years ago, Douglas Southall Freeman, the author of Lee's Lieutenants, told his friend Clifford Dowdey (another Civil War author), that he often suppressed his real opinions about the generals in his histories.
The problem with Shelby Foote is that he's the epitome of Lost Cause writing.
Or that a certain battle, thought to be a glorious victory, is very overblown and wasn't that much of a victory at all.Having read much work produced by the new generation of historians, I'm no longer willing to tolerate much of the claptrap produced by Foote and the older historians.
I would like to have given this book 4 and a half stars although obviously that is not possible.
I do not understand the misspellings in the book- was there no editor or some hidden reason for it?
Still, I was drawn to Foote's writing.
His appreciation and dedication to the history he was writing was obvious and his evenhandedness apparent.
This book is very easy reading so I would recommend it even to those not normally drawn to history.
I understand it is a narrative but it is also meant to be history so I believe they should have been included.
Overall, I highly recommend it.
On the one hand Foote is pretty openly a confederate sympathizer, opening the book by talking about what a good and kind slavemaster Jefferson Davis was, portraying abolitionists as ruthless rabble rousing demagogues etc, but on the other hand I doubt you're going to find a better detailed description of the events of the civil war itself. I don't at all think this is an unenjoyable or non-informative read, just that it should probably be heavily supplemented with other works that maybe aren't so taken in by the "honorable gallantry" of a bunch of scumbag slave owners.
Well, that took a long, long time. Foote's book is beautifully written, interesting and informative. It's well worth the read, but damn is it long. Two more to go.
I have heard a great deal of the fortuitous and highly effulgient writing of Mr. shelby Foote, esq., an author held in high esteem on both sides of the Mason Dixon line.
Mr. Foote makes them real, you see the humanity in both the regular soldiers, often called on to great privations, and the personalities and pressures of the generals.
I often would be reading and think, well, it's time for a map, turn the page, and there it was.
So this is highly recommended, I often would have read it for hours had i not had other commitments, like work and meals.
I had read this book and the other three many years ago while in college.
The three book volume is a Christmas gift from my wife Shari and I have just begun to re-read this great piece of work.
Each volume is over 800 pages long, so I will be reading a volume - then taking a break with other reading - then returning to the series.Originally started in 1954, it took over 20 years to complete was the research so exhaustive.
Grand writing and the research is an close to impeccable as you can get.


This volume is an account of the first year and a half of the Civil War, primarily focusing on the military engagements.
You definitely need to have a good understanding of the Civil War and be familiar with the names of commanders; otherwise it is easy to get lost.
Also, I would recommend referring to maps as the story moves from battle to battle if you are not familiar with the area being discussed.
I am working my way through this series (This book is the first large volume of a trilogy.) and then embarking on Bruce Catton's trilogy to see how they compare.
Been reading this book in parts for last year, as the "baseline" to my series of Civil War books.
Reading this series will be the progress I'll keep coming back to after branching out to other books, topics and sub-topics.
Foote's writing as a narrative is exactly what I prefer to history.
And though you can tell his writing is based in research, it isn't overly academic and thrown in your face with notes and conclusions, etc.
His note on bibliography at end of book is sufficient for what I'm looking for (tips to other books).
I first read this definitive 3 volume series when Ruth was a newborn in 2001. I fondly recall these books in my lap alongside my sleeping baby girl, woodstove heating our den cozily, while a heavy February snow quilted the word outside. Those were magical times, and I wondered if my impressions of these works were skewed favorably as a result.Well, I just finished re-reading volume 1, and I enjoyed Mr Foote's eloquent prose every bit as much, though my house is now filled with three rambunctious children, the aforementioned Ruth now a voracious (nearly teenage) reader herself.
Judging by the size of this book, the civil war is longer than I thought.
And if you read the book closely, you certainly can't brush away that slavery was the cause of the war or accept Davis' claim that "all we ask is to be left alone." The South seceded precisely because a president--Lincoln--was elected who was opposed to the expansion of slavery to new territories.
Foote details the battles in New Mexico and Davis' ambitions to expand the Confederacy down to all of South America and across to Cuba.
Yet I had no problem feeling sympathy for the British when I recently read books about the American Revolutionary War. It probably didn't help that this is above all a battlefield history.
I have a printed edition on my bookshelf, which I have had for more than 20 years, but the time commitment required to complete the trilogy caused me to continually postpone the reading project.
Nevertheless, the author has no apparent political bias in favor of the Confederacy.Foote combines solid research with a novelist's talent with words to produce a work that is truly masterful!
I could not wait to continue this book each day, and Grover Gardner reads the text in a crisp, clear manner.
I loved Shelby Foote in the Ken Burns Civil War series, and ever since I saw him there this series has been on my list.
I am glad to have this first volume under my belt and look forward to the other two.
Also, in telling what happened from a day-to-day standpoint the issue of slavery features prominently in sections near the end on Lincoln and his preliminary emancipation proclamation.
I was very glad to have the kindle version with "x-ray" so that I could quickly remind myself who was who and what took place when.
This book is masterful!
Beast of a book but wow! This is a Work. Have learned a lot, have enjoyed the read, and am looking forward to the next two volumes. History is indeed detailed.
van dorn (confederate)Sibley’s failed confederate attempt to capture the far west in texas/new mexico/Arizona with groups of irregular Texans, battles at forts and glorietta island, retreat through horrific terrain and weatherBattle of Island Ten with union victory (pope) in Tennessee on Mississippi River with help of ironcladsBattle of Shiloh in Tennessee with union victory (grant) over confederacy (beauregard, Sidney Johnston), bloodiest battle of war to this point, death of JohnstonNaval battles south of New Orleans in union attempt to capture New Orleans from the SouthStonewall Jackson’s Shenandoah Valley campaign against Banks to distract union from sending more troops to defend Richmond, victories against banks, Fremont, shields, battles of kernstown, Winchester, port republicMcClellan’s peninsular campaign in attempt to capture Richmond against Johnston from the south east after amphibious landingDefense of Richmond from the east and north – seven pines battle, injury to Johnston, subsequent takeover of army of northern Virginia by LeeSeven Days Battle north and east of Richmond (Lee vs.
Meh. Too much unnecessary details. No wonder it's too big. Huge disappointment.
I just completed volume one, The Civil War: A Narrative, Fort Sumter to Perryville".
The late Shelby Foote writes with a down home, comfortable style that is like he is sitting beside you telling a story.
It is the example of how to write history.Many students of the Civil War are limited in their knowledge of the war to the major battles of Fort Sumter, Bull Run, Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, Shiloh, Corinth, Iuka, Antietam (Sharpsburg), etc.
Even knowing the history of the civil war well, I had trouble at times with where we were at what battle.
