https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41423.The_Outlaws_of_Sherwood
Friar Tuck tells us “tales are as much the necessary fabric of our lives as our bodies are.” Marian consciously constructs a legend of superhuman archer Robin Hood; the common folk of Nottingham have their own tales and stories of a fairy ‘Old One’ Robin Hood, savior of the Saxons; the outlaws themselves add some gloss to their versions when drinking with town girlfriends; and robbed nobles exaggerate the shocking deeds of the outlaws, or are implied to be doing so.
The Outlaws of Sherwood, a retelling of the Robin Hood folktale, has been on my bookshelf for ages, dating back to the days when I was auto-buying everything Robin McKinley wrote.
This makes for an interesting twist on the famous archery contest story.It's mostly pleasant and enjoyable, but there's an extremely violent and bloody battle toward the end that I found rather harrowing reading.
If you're interested in the Robin Hood legend it's worth checking out, especially on sale.
My first encounter with the tale itself was no doubt the Disney animated version (which I still love watching with my son), but I'm pretty sure the first actual novelization I read was Robin McKinley's THE OUTLAWS OF SHERWOOD.
His friends convince him to go into hiding while they work up a plan to keep their friend alive and prevent the Norman overlords from raining down punishments on all the Saxons' heads as a result of Robin's "crime." Against his better judgement, Robin goes along with Much and Marian's plan and, in the process, he becomes a hero--albeit a reluctant one.There is so much good in this book and it all centers around the characters.
I got this sort of clingy feeling, like when you were little and you came to the end of a wonderful bedtime story and you just don’t want to go to sleep.
I can’t really explain why, but there’s something about the Robin Hood who never misses a target and is the best at all the cool stuff that I’m just a bit attached to.
They remain at the top or very near the top of my list of favorite fictional couples.There’s not really a whole lot to say about the book in particular, but more about the Robin Hood legend in general.
McKinley captures the essence of the Robin Hood legend with lyrical descriptions and good characterisation.
The story of Robin Hood captured my heart when I was very young, and Robin has long been one of my favourite characters.
While I have seen some versions of the Robin Hood story I like more than others, none fully capture my idea of how it should be.
The romantic element between Robin and Marian is subtle and sweet, the tricky business of a friendship turning into romantic love, made more complicated by Robin’s conflicted sense of honour--he wants to send her away for her own safety but doesn’t want to be without her.
A nice telling of Robin Hood that sticks pretty close to the classic version. However, Marian gets more of a role, and she is a great character!
The first half of this book is a weak 2 stars - but it picks up to 4+ after that point, so rating it is really confusing.
Which is easily one of my favorite parts about it.To me, the book demonstrates the reality of a legend like Robin.
Up until that point it's mostly the day-to-day drudgery of trying to live in a forest...
(Tuck to Robin)It was common knowledge when I was a forester that I could hit the broad side of a barn only if it wasn’t walking away too quickly.
The writing is superb.
I love this telling of the story, and how the characters are portrayed.
They have a slight modern feel without being obnoxious or out of place (I could easily picture the cast from BBC's Robin Hood.
;)) All the Robin and Marian scenes were adorable and made my heart happy.
<3 I liked how Robin was almost a different character in this.
He wasn't the best archer.
He wasn't a lover of high adventure and glory.
It left me with hope and semi happiness.
(Not depression, like the BBC show, haha.

Near my apartment lay a popular clothing store called "Robin Hood, Ltd.," which offered a shirt emblazoned with their own logo design and the motto, "Be yourself." This shirt was so ubiquitous that I would sometimes step out of the apartment into a crowded street and find myself enveloped in a double layer of irony: first, because if everyone's wearing it, then how original is it?
It says something about the power of symbols, however, that the Robin Hood name could carry a connotation powerful enough to inspire attraction in a culture that already has its own Robin Hood-like mythos.In The Outlaws of Sherwood, Robin McKinley takes her signature approach to unravel the story and characters behind the Robin Hood legend.
McKinley explores the circumstances that might have led to the formation of an outlaw community in Sherwood and the growth of the Robin Hood legend.
She contrasts Robin's practical concerns (not being arrested and executed, taking care of his followers when the decide to live in the woods) with the more abstract political ideals of those who want to make him a symbol of Saxon resistance.
The second problem -- and this won't surprise prior readers of McKinley ([cough:]Spindle's End[cough:]) -- was point of view.
I was reading Robin McKinley’s Sherwood Outlaws and started thinking what the legend means to me.I couldn't get into the book – even though I like the characters (this incarnations of them) and the writing, they seem to be behind a glass wall that I couldn't break, and didn’t want to.
Somewhere in the back of my mind I was always sure about the continuous existence of Robin Hood, Marion, Little John, Will Scarlet, Friar Tuck, Sheriff of Nottingham, Guy of Gizborne and others in the Sherwood forest and around.
For the most part, this was excellently written!
Fresh and clever dialogue gave the characters life, omniscient POV held my attention well, and the prose practically sparkled with strength of expression.
One small problem: I NEED A PLOT.
Hence, the story has a disjointed, rambly feel to it, and it lacks any significant build-up.
So although The Outlaws of Sherwood has fantastic prose and characters, it lacks a compelling plot.
Kudos to the author for maintaining a VERY classic feel while still developing the Robin Hood story in a unique way.
Off the top of my head I can remember at least 3 versions of Robin Hood that I've read (not all loved).
Robin Hood is the book that I remember the most when I think back to my primary school reading days, and I was super excited (and eventually super disappointed) for the new BBC incarnation of my favourite protagonist.
I picked up Outlaws because of a yuletide story that I put to the sidelines, not wanting to spoil myself for yet another version of the Hooded Man. Without a doubt my sentimental favourite for Robin Hood is the novelisation of the old TV series, Robin of Sherwood.
(view spoiler)[I suppose it's realistic that the bandits couldn't expect a full pardon, but sending them all to fight on Crusade??!
(hide spoiler)]What I was most struck by on this reread is how uneven Robin is as a character.
I really liked how McKinley turned some of the most routine pieces of the tale on their head (view spoiler)[(I loved that Marian was the good archer, and that Robin couldn't hit anything at ten paces!) (hide spoiler)], but she also keeps some of the elements that don't line up with her interpretation: I never bought Robin as an inspiring leader.
I have no idea why this is designated as YA, that seems fairly pointless; perhaps because the author writes fantasy - to my disappointment there is no more from her in this vein.Set in the reign of Richard 'Lionheart', as the legend often is - yet this is a most unlikely time for the birth of this legend if only because Richard spent as little as 8 weeks in total in England in the course of a 10 year reign.
Despite historical howlers this was a very good read and bettered in the Robin Hood subject only by The Arrow of Sherwood in my reading.Personally, I believe Robin Hood originates from the catastrophic defeat of Simon de Montfort at Evesham when fugitives were known to have fled into the Fens and into Sherwood.
So, I started her Robin Hood novel expecting a good tale--and I was NOT disappointed!Yes, we all know the story--Robin Hood, Maid Marian, Friar Tuck and the whole cast.
In her epilogue, Robin McKinley notes she has read over twenty Robin Hood novels.
Maid Marian is also well done--this lady gets into the action and is not just a damsel in distress to be rescued.A good adaptation of a familiar tale; expanded to novel size length.
If you like Robin Hood at all, try this one and you will not regret it.
Title: The Outlaws of SherwoodAuthor: Robin McKinleyPublisher: Ace Books Year:1988# of pages:278 Genre: FictionReading level Interest level: 11-12 GradePotential hot lava: ViolenceGeneral response/reaction: I had to make myself sit down and read this novel. I picked it up at least four times before I actually read it. I found it really hard to get into and very slow paced. The plot seemed to creep along and so many characters were being introduced it was really difficult to keep them straight. I
He befriends Little Jon in the forest after a confrontation, which becomes one of the most loved members of the outlaws with Cecil at his side.
When they are staying with Sir Richard, the king returns and everyone is wanting to know how Robin and his outlaws will be punished for their actions against the king’s men.
Is it Robin, Marian, Little Jon, Cecily?- Newspaper article about the events that happened at the Archery contest - Watch a typical Robin Hood story and have the students compare it to the novel
In a Sentence: The Outlaws of Sherwood was a charming re-telling of an age-old legend. My Thoughts I think there's a part of me that will always love old stories and legends. Because these stories and their various mythologies have always been of interest to me, I love coming across re-tellings in which the author puts his or her own creative spin on things. That, combined with my growing affection for the BBC's Robin Hood television series and my good experiences with Robin McKinley in the past
However, if you happen to be one of these people, I wouldn't let this aspect alone be the deal-breaker to you picking up this book, because I also think the writing is extremely easy to read and makes for a well-constructed story overall.The Outlaws of Sherwood, though it is definitely a tale about Robin Hood, is also the story of a number of other outlaws as well (as suggested by the title of the book).
If you are at all interested in the mythology of Robin Hood and his friends, or if you've enjoyed other books by Robin McKinley, then I would recommend checking out The Outlaws of Sherwood!
I even don't mind the whole lack of Nottingham caves thing, after all, this book was written before the internet.I did, however, struggle a bit with Robin's character.
“I am content with the center,” said Much.Perhaps my lack of faith in Robin has something to do with McKinley's style of writing.
Also while I like the love affair between Robin and Marian, I found it less interesting than those of the side characters such as Little John and Cecily and even Sybil and Eva.
Much of the initial action of the story comes from Robin's best friends, Marian and Much (son of the local miller, and not a character I've encountered in Robin Hood stories outside of this one -- I'd be interested to know if he's a McKinley creation or if I simply haven't read enough Robin Hood to recognize him, which is certainly possible).
What follows is me prattling on in lists of three.If you could chart my opinion of this book, it went rather sporadically like this:Four stars, bumps up to five stars for a few chapters, falls to three stars, drops to two stars, and finally returns to three stars because, heck, I love Robin Hood.
Robin and Marian were kind of cute, and singly they made good characters, but their romance inconsistently jumps about, filled with attempted misunderstandings and too much emotions.
(view spoiler)[ Little John and Cecily are, like Robin and Marian, kind of cute, but not satisfying.
He's mostly a worry-wart and rather boring.But this story still fits in the major moments of the legends, but Marian takes the place of the great archer of the group.
But this takes place, like, 70% into the story - which is far too long waiting for something interesting to happen in a freaking Robin Hood story.Since most of the story is from the perspective of the outlaws, switching a bit through Robin, Marian, Little John and Cecil, we don't really see much about what happens outside their borders, except in snippets we get told.And that's a big part of the problem with the writing of this story.
In which Robin Hood becomes a worry wort.The Outlaws of Sherwood takes a realistic approach to the legendary outlaw and his band of merry, uh, persons.
Little John is big, but not in the epic manner of the usual Robin Hood stories.Not a bad approach, but not wildly compelling.
. McKinley's restrained version of Sherwood's famous outlaws is probably closer to reality, but lacks passion.
But even that female ends up with her very own spine, with a sense of agency.Not bad, but not for readers who like a touch of hyperbole in their myths.
The story of Robin Hood is so continually relevant that it is able to transcend the (comparatively) little worries about historical accuracy - so sayth McKinley.
In this case.Overall a very enjoyable little book - it would be great to read aloud; it's more story than novel, which ...
Especially interesting - how Robin is the leader, but takes a back role in the plot: it makes the Robin Hood story illustrative & nearly allegorical, rather than particular.
'You're a pessimist and a good planner.' 'I have be begun to plan and be pessimistic,' said Robin angrily.") Robin is simply average - he is not great with a bow, he can hold his own in a battle but he is not fighter; he was in the wrong place at the wrong time and from there a legend bloomed that he never wanted, but could not deny.Yet, he has these moments where he just tends to shine.
McKinley is an author I can depend upon.
Regardless of her topic (thus far, anyway), I've thoroughly enjoyed her books.
Her books may not be life-altering, but they are well-written, entertaining, with enough depth to satisfy.
I'm a sucker for anything remotely related to Robin Hood, so I admit I'm easy to please, but I really liked how each character stood out and yet bore the recognizable marks of their legendary counterparts.
Much of McKinley's themes deal with legendizing and the importance of a true fiction over a false truth.
Lovely! Robin Hood legends are glorious. I meant to reread this while I was doing a module on Robin Hood -- it was mentioned during the course, if I remember rightly. Must revisit it soon, with my new/deeper knowledge of the traditions.
This story is magnificently told as it's not only the story of Robin Hood, it also tells us the story about Will Scarlet, about Maiden Marian (who's not so much as a damsel in distress as a strong, independent heroine), Little John, Friar Tuck, and so many others.
Initially I thought that this book would be mainly about Robin Hood and Marian, but there was so much more to the story that I couldn't help but love.
I rooted like hell for Little John and his romance, I was even bigger a champion for Marian and Robin whose romance was anything but fast.
I loved how Robin Hood is shown as a person.
Outlaws of Sherwood is in the latter group.What truly sets this book apart in a sea of adaptions is the role Robin Hood plays in the story.
He's not the best archer, he's not the smartest guy; he inspires loyalty in his friends and wants to protect them.He can be very well summed up by two quotes: "Let us not gallop to meet future difficulties.
“You're a pessimist and a good planner.” “I have not begun to plan and be pessimistic,” said Robin angrily.Instead, in Outlaws, Robin's friends are the real shining stars of the story.
