https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34530003-pretty-girls-dancing
I throughly enjoyed the book and would love to see it turn into a series with Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation agent Mark Foster as the lead character.This book opens with the abduction of a teenager, Whitney DeVries.
Mark Foster is sent in to work the case of Whitney DeVries.
Kelsey's teenaged sister, Janie, who has long suffered from selective mutism due to social anxiety, becomes interested in the abduction of Whitney and gathers information that starts to break the case open for Mark.
I really liked the investigator, Mark Foster, kidnap victim Whitney DeVries, and the sister of another victim, Janie Willard.
*I got a free copy via Amazon First Reads (if I typed the new name wrong, please let me know) *previously known as Kindle First* All my opinions are my own:).----2.5 stars...
Decent story.
It was slow-paced but still kept me interested throughout the whole thing.
Janie, Mark, and Whitney were the best drawn of the characters in the story.
Everyone else felt underdeveloped.The reveal of the Perp was anti-climatic for me and felt like it came out of left field.
Unsure, but glad I got to try this without wasting my money or gas (not meant in a bad way).
The book was presented by contrasting, in alternate chapters a family who lost their daughter seven years ago, not yet found, and a family just twelve miles away who have just lost their daughter.
The police are convinced that this crime has been committed by a person who has taken many girls over the years, some of which have been found, being dressed in tutus and ballet attire.So, sorry to say for me the characters were flat, and what could have been an unusual topic for a thriller turned out to be just mediocre.Thank you to the author, the publisher, and netgalley for a digital copy of this novel.
I received a free e-copy of Pretty Girls Dancing by Kylie Brant from NetGalley for my honest review.
This is a story of a young girl, Whitney, who was kidnapped 7 years ago and her body has still not been found.
Now 7 years later, another girl, Kelsey is missing.
The police believe both girls were taken by the Ten Mile Killer.
This novel was written with great characters and I thoroughly enjoyed how each character had their own version of what happened, truths, lies, secrets, etc.
You get to hear how each character was affected by the kidnappings.
Everyone has secrets!
Many years ago a young girl disappeared and even though a body was never found, she was presumed dead.
Now another young girl has gone missing and the way to solve this case may be to take another look at the first case, opening up old wounds ...
and finding secrets that have never been revealed.Told in various voices of a broken mother, a guilt-ridden father, the sister who has never stopped hoping, the victim, and the detective who must expose the secrets and lies inn order to find a killer.Kylie Brant is a well-known author who has never failed in well-written stories with convincible, engaging characters.
Not a bad read...
for years girls have gone missing and then located dressed as ballerinas-their bodies posed like dancers.
For seven years Janie Willard has lived through the hell of her sister being taken and never found.
Her parents have drifted and she has a social anxiety that her sister’s disappearance didn’t help.
When another young girl is kidnapped the last seven years come hurling back towards the Willard family only to rip and tear at them like a shark attack on the innocent.
The ending will leave you stunned...
I never figured who the killer was...
This mystery details the recent kidnapping of a teenager named Whitney, as well as the kidnapping of teen Kelsey that occurred seven years ago.
The book alternates between the point of view of Kelsey’s family members and the law enforcement officer in charge of the case.
Brant creates very sympathetic characters in Janie and Claire, the younger sister and mother of Kelsey.
Claire uses coping mechanisms that are nothing short of self-destructive and Janie becomes the parent in this relationship.
However, the ending of the book came as a total surprise, which to me, is the sign of a worthy whodunnit.
I have read a lot of dark thrillers. I couldn't put this book down. I was sad and riveted. I needed to know who was this horrible killer. This book was different because...there was no light for me at the end of this tunnel, well there was a survivor. But what a tough look at the families of a victim. The utter nightmare that engulfs their lives. This book was very well written. This author is a talented voice in this genre. This is a book that will stay with me.
Excellent! This is my first book by this author and I am eager to read more of her books! I found it started a little slow but as the book went on, I became more and more invested and engaged in the characters and the story. The last 70-80 pages I was on the edge of my seat! There were family secrets, betrayal and dysfunction all wrapped up in this suspenseful thriller! I highly recommend this book!
1.5 STARS Whitney, a young teen is missing, reminiscent of Kelsey a girl who vanished seven years ago.Told from the third person points of view of Kelsey’s parents and younger sister, as well as Whitney and a detective investigating both cases as linked to a serial killer, PRETTY GIRLS DANCING is a story with a great premise and lackluster execution.Kelsey’s sister Janie, who suffered from selective mutism and extreme anxiety was the most interesting character in the story.
Despite her challenges she had the most moxie and personality.
PRETTY GIRLS DANCING had its share of plausible suspects, the perp proved to be the least interesting.
A sub-par, slow burn crime procedural that fails to deliver a compelling, twisted thriller as it is marketed as. However, for what the story was, it kept my attention , which is definitely a plus in my book.
Because the big reveal ends up revealing a person who has a handful of pages of dialogue and a boring name that sounds like every other male name in the book.
Thank crap I read this on kindle and could later go back and search the name because I literally did not remember him ever coming up.
You see murder and ballet in the description and it's everything you can hope for and dream of, but it ends up being very little of both mixed in with a whole lot of blah.
It had a ton of POV's and I definitely kept losing my place on who was speaking.Now the mystery throughout the book was so good!
I kind of liked almost every character but I mostly just felt bad for them.
I absolutely hated her dad because he didn't act like a father to his other kid or a husband to his wife.
Which again, made me suspect soooooo many people in this book because of so many little things or how the acted.
I WAS SO PROUD!Okay, besides Kelsey there was another victim Whitney.
I will definitely be looking into another book by this author.
When a young girl goes missing in a small Ohio town, Agent Mark Foster is put on the case.
(view spoiler)[ Foster gets a big break when the sister of the previous missing girl follows up on a lead she discovers through a friend.
All the new evidence allows Agent Foster to move the investigation in a new direction, which eventually leads him to the killer and he is able to save a couple victims before they are killed.
(hide spoiler)]While this book does involve the crime itself, it also focuses on how the families of the victims are changed for the worse after such a tragedy.
The younger sister, Janie who before her sister was taken suffered from a social anxiety and has struggled to keep her head above water even more since she went missing.
And the father, David Willard who is rife with guilt over something from the past.Mark Foster is a Special Agent with the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigations, investigating the latest disappearance.
He is also a father and husband whose dedication to his job with the Ohio BCI puts his marriage on the line.Whitney DeVries, is the latest victim taken by the Ten Mile Killer.
Yet another mistake from the so-called privilege of being Amazon Prime member where they present one with horrendous book choice options and you have to rely on reviews by Amazon readers to make your horrendous choice. That's what I do each month. It's a ritual. Select something horrid that I am unable to read past the first two pages or so.Young girls being fooled by on-line predators and sneaking out of their bedroom windows to their deaths? Not so jolly.First New Year's Resolution - Ignore the Amazon emails insisting I select one of these monthly duds.
This book is definitely your standard run of the mill find the serial killer thriller but I felt it was lacking some twists and turns up until the end.
I thought she was fascinating and really enjoyed her character overall and the struggles she faced losing her sister and with her anxiety problems.
Overall, I felt this book was okay which was a disappointment because the blurb got me super pumped about it but in the end I was let down.
I definitely would like to give another book by this author a try and see how I like it though!
Labeling several POV characters, throughout Pretty Girls Dancing, she lets you into their lives with deep point of view writing, which after only a few pages, I could not put down.
By the time I finished this book, I could have sworn these people were real.Ms. Brant writes superb teenage characters and if you like YA, you will be drawn in as well.
(Guess the teacher and mother of five knows these people.) In Pretty Girls Dancing, no one is one hundred percent good and no one is one hundred percent bad -- well.....
In Pretty Girls Dancing, Kylie Brant delivers.
A good thriller with some twists and turns. Written from different perspectives which I like. Worth the read!
If there was a horrible cliche to be used, this author didn't miss it.
I'll be honest, more often than not with Kindle Unlimited I find I can be a bit disappointed with mystery books.
Still I went into Pretty Girls Dancing with an open mind and I'm glad I did.I read this over 3 sittings.
I had concerns as this story was told from a lot of points of view.
The book opens with Whitney (Another voice in the story) meeting a boy.
I would happily have paid for this book as I did get a lot of enjoyment (Plus I love a good mystery) from it.

I liked how the book was told from the perspective of 5 different people and didn’t seem too much or disjointed at all.
I also appreciated that in some respects there wasn’t a happy ending for some of the characters.
As we know, in life, sometimes the worst things do happen and we are confronted with the pain of loss and sorrow.
I actually found myself shedding an actual tear or two toward the end of the book.
I like books that have raw and relatable characters and this book delivered.
It also gave the reader a chilling portrayal of life with the bad guy.
I enjoyed the book. I’m confused on how the killer was identified.
I couldn't wait until the next day to read how the story unfolded.
Written in five different character perspectives, two stories unfold.
There's one character I didn't like at all, but I won't tell you who or why.
Reading this character's perspective was my least favorite part.
She's the character with the most growth in the story.
As the story unfolds, the characters' introspective journey give the reader more details about their current and past behaviors.
Not only the book makes a good serial killer thriller, but it also provides an insight of grief, and how it affects different people and families.
The prose sound different from a lot of the books I had been reading lately, so once I saw it as a selection, I had to choose it.
I also read this book incredibly fast, and was legitimately waking up around 4 a.m. just to read a few chapters and then went back to bed.I really enjoyed the character development, I loved second guessing everyone, and trying to figure out who I thought was the TMK.
I thought they were the strongest people in the book, and the most enjoyable perspective to read from.
I just finished Kylie Brant’s, “Pretty Girls Dancing” and even though the book managed to keep me guessing until the end, it had so many silly and weird plot twists I wouldn’t recommend reading it.
Besides the very strange central character, the story gets bogged down with various conflicts between the rest of the characters which leaves the reader guessing as to why the author would have characters lying to the police and other unexplained actions without explaining why.
The author does write well at times but I found I was just wanting a resolution on the main story and for the novel to end.
This was a very compelling story. Well written, great characters and I was blown away at the end of the story when it was finally revealed who the "monster" was.Great suspense, a real page turner. I definitely would recommend it.
Grim mystery well toldGood story of families caught up in the grief of kidnapped daughters. Lots of dark family secrets, so it’s difficult to guess who the monster is.
Pretty Girls Dancing is a good suspense novel filled with flawed characters that are easy to relate to.
From the main detective on the case, Mark Foster to the girls who fall victim to a senseless crime each of the characters seem to find a way into the heart of the reader.
In fact, Janie and Whitney seem to have the maturity that the other characters lack in terms of integrity and respect for others.
This strength is lacking in the characters I mention above.
One of the things that most impressed me while reading this novel is the perspective of Whitney DeVries, the newest girl taken against her will.
