https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537901.Wisdom_s_Daughter
হেনরি সাহেব কষট করে এতো মোটা একটা বই ললিখসে তাই তিন দিলাম। কেন যে এতো তযানা পেচানো বুঝি না। অযালানকে নিয়ে একটা বিশাল বই লিখসে, নায়িকা আয়েশা। একদম হুদাই লিখসে। তবু এই বইটা হজম করা গেছে।অনুবাদ ভালো। এই অনুবাদকের হিউ হিউ মনসটার পড়ে আবেগে কাইনদা দিছিলাম। সেই তুলনায় অনেক উননতি হইসে, চোখে পড়ার মতো উননতি।আয়শা নিয়ে আরও লেঞজা আছে নাকি এইখানেই শেষ।
হেনরি সাহেব কষ্ট করে এতো মোটা একটা বই ল্লিখসে তাই তিন দিলাম। কেন যে এতো ত্যানা পেচানো বুঝি না। অ্যালানকে নিয়ে একটা বিশাল বই লিখসে, নায়িকা আয়েশা। একদম হুদাই লিখসে। তবু এই বইটা হজম করা গেছে।অনুবাদ ভালো। এই অনুবাদকের হিউ হিউ মন্সটার পড়ে আবেগে কাইন্দা দিছিলাম। সেই তুলনায় অনেক উন্নতি হইসে, চোখে পড়ার মতো উন্নতি।আয়শা নিয়ে আরও লেঞ্জা আছে নাকি এইখানেই শেষ।
Not the most compelling story by Haggard. Haggard is best at action and adventure--not so good at exposition and long speeches, which make up far too much of this book.Honestly, I only kept reading to finish it so that I could say I'd read all of the Ayesha books.
A pity, because earlier volumes in this series actually provoked a lively interest in new ways of approaching life's mysteries, many evolving from, it seems, theosophic ideas.Here, however, ideas languish until mercifully the book ends.
It is worth saying that Haggard apparently had more than a passing acquaintance with the ancient history of Egypt, Persia, and the Middle East.
His historical characters, although the details of their lives might be stretched and altered somewhat, seem true to the actual record.
Mentor, Bagoas, Artaxerxes III, and Nectanabo all come to life as their histories indicate they should.
Por fin! Me tomó demasiado tiempo leer esto libro, aunque en realidad lo leí más rápido que los otros dos, probablemente por el formato en el que lo leí. Debo admitir que es el que más disfruté de esta ''saga'', sin embargo, insisto, la forma de escribir y el lenguaje rebuscado que utiliza resulta un poco tedioso. En fin, ya te dejo atrás Ayesha, gracias por enseñarme nuevas palabras Hija de la Sabiduría.
[Spoilers]...Unlike most Haggard Protagonists Ayesha is not given a real moral High ground. She is seen as a Vengeful woman who is hungry for power. Her love Towards Callicrates makes her jealous when she finds out he is in love with Another Woman (the Princess)
couldn't meet my expectation. Story telling is much boring and monotonous.....If you have already finished SHE & RETURN OF SHE, you may read it. Otherwise it will disappoint you for sure...
The full tale of She, and magnificent it is
Ayesha is one of the kick-ass heroines of the Victorian Age. Haggard's first book involving her, She, was first published in serial form from 1896 to 1897, and along with King's Solomon's Mines is his most famous book.
It's the first chronologically of the four books involving her though, and the first one I read, and can stand alone.
I'd rather remember this not only as a rollicking good adventure to read, but above all remember Ayesha as one of the most awesome and powerful female characters in literature.
This book solves quite a few puzzles and answers to many questions arose from the previous books.
But this book should only be read after reading the previous books.
The book focuses on the character of She or Ayesha, her weaknesses, her vengeance and her determination for redemption.
She is a character indeed!!The writing style matches with the writing style of Cleopatra by the same author.
The book is written in the manner of old archaic English, not a smooth read.
But it gives you the feeling that you are reading personal diary of someone more than 2000 years old and the writing style manages to capture that essence.
I first read this book shortly after Ballantine published it in 1978.
While I enjoyed it, I found that I didn't care for it as much as I felt I should have.
I had read others of Haggard's books and had felt that I should have liked this one as much as I had them which I don't.
I felt that it may have been its style which was quite different than he normally wrote in.
I believe that its style was the reason why.
Looking forward to the reading of the other books in series.
Finally we get Ayesha's backstory! I have no idea if this is remotely historically accurate, but enjoyed the tour through ancient Egypt. Not sure that the reason for Ayesha's being cursed for thousands of years quite holds up, but it's a fun read nevertheless.
Love this author!
This book is better than any book in the "She" series. It has a reasonable pace with a gripping story.
The first three books are kind of the same — just in different locations...
