https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/834518.Cyteen
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
I can’t think of another book that I whinged about so much while reading and then said at the end, “yeah, that was really good.”We had a battle of wills, did 
There’s nothing else to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award with the same kind of scope and density.I’m trying to think of books to compare it too, and I’m struggling.
It’s a touch like Bujold’s Vorkosigan books – in that it’s a female sci-fi writer with a good eye for character and political intrigue.
This is not an EASY book to read and is not what I would describe as TONS of FUN.
It is a complex, richly detailed, psychological science fiction mystery peopled by characters of vast intellect and extreme cunning.
This makes the story one in which the reader must pay close attention.
However, the pay off for such attention is well worth it.
This is a very important book.
In sum this book is BRILLIANT, VERY ORIGINAL AND A SUPERIOR ACHIEVEMENT.
Winner: Hugo Award for Best NovelWinner: Locus Award Best NovelNominee: British Science Ficion AwardNumber 30 on Locus list of All Time Best SF Novels.
There’s no question of the seriousness and rigor of its exploration of power politics, the ethics of cloning, genetic engineering, and social conditioning, and a very drawn-out (and inconclusive) murder mystery.
But as a stand-alone book, it was not an entertaining experience.The story centers Ariane Emory, a brilliant scientist and politician who runs the Reseune cloning research facility in Cyteen, the home planet of the Union that split from the Earth alliance (the story detailed in Downbelow Station).

She writes for people who want a long, in-depth read and who aren't afraid of being plunged into a world full of new and often confusing terms, ideas, and vocabulary.Books such as this are usually written with a man cast in the lead role.
That fact alone makes Cyteen unique since I don't know of any other science fiction or fantasy book that is written about a female dictator's murder, clonal rebirth, and by her clone's own rise to power.One of the most frustratingly intriguing elements of this books is the swirl of dangerous political undercurrents that surround both new and old Ari. Will she survive long enough to reach adulthood?
I notice that this volume was once published in three parts (against the will of the author) and I have to agree that it doesn't really make sense to break up the story in that way.
What it really needed was some good editing, some streamlining to tell the story that could have been told in a far more condensed way.I oscillated between mild boredom and rapt interest throughout the book.
It was good but just didn't quite justify the effort and time involved unfortunately.
Herbert's CHOAM and Asimov's Empire are rivaled here as political meta-civilisations - something Banks has never attained directly like these, although implicitly it is all there.Further - perhaps most of all - I love the character and being inside of the young Ari all the way through.
Indeed, one major story strand is ostensibly thematically about the vicissitudes of their suffering, but the book is saved by the development of the young Ari - for although Justin may be smart, special and necessary to the new Ari, he is also an exceptionally irritating personality throughout the novel - dammit.
It's realistic and explores a wonderful human-factor that often gets drowned out in SF.So what did I not like so much it made me stop (when I'm such a masochist for reading worse books than this one)?
And the same goes for everyone else in politics, I have no idea who's more than a background character and I have a hard time keeping any of them straight.
But is the payoff there and will I care?I cheated and read the wikipedia plot summary for the book, hoping it would lure me into finishing.
It’s about power, abuse, and manipulation, on both the macro- and the micro-scale.I’ve read several of Cherryh’s Alliance-Union books, but this is my first time dipping into the Union side of the universe: a society of genetic engineers who have absolutely zero problem with eugenics and who have created the azi, who are genetically-modified clones bred and tape-trained to be the perfect servants, bodyguards, soldiers, intimate companions (cough), etc.
So when someone takes the time to read a 680-page book twice a year, I figure there must be something worthwhile to it.It took two months (not every day, to be sure), but I finally finished slogging through Cyteen.
Cyteen tells the story of Ari’s life, death, and rebirth.Rejuv treatments allow humans to live to be well over 100 years old, perhaps as much as 200.
Apparently, they felt no one, not even Jordan, could understand and extend the research, and were willing to wait 20 or more years for Ari’s clone to mature.The remainder of Cyteen recounts Ari II’s first 20 years.
Cyteen is one of the more frustrating books I have read recently.
She is able to read, control and exploit those around her, and she often takes this beyond the limits of what is right.Cherryh is much like Margaret Atwood in that the science in this book, although certainly often a springboard for her ideas, serves mostly as a backdrop to the more import human messages she is conveying.
It just doesn't feel like the 25th century.Where this book fell down for me is the pacing and length.
There are plodding sections of political machinations and long stretches of self-analysis and introspection on the part of the main characters Ari and Justin.
Her presentation of politics, psychology and human emotion and failings are wonderful, and her prose is some of the finest around.I loved the "Boys from Brazil" theme in the book; the re-creation of a person without "magical knowledge transfer" but through re-creation of childhood environments and deep hypnotic training of a life recorded closely.The social issues of creating test-tube humans ("Azis") for use to populate worlds quickly (for political ends) and as servants are presented very skilfully, and with great compassion.The brutal manipulation of those surrounding the central character are so well-presented that you agonise with them.
It’s a weird and fascinating setup, because the Azi are intelligent and not discontented, and none of the characters seem to be bothered by what feels to the reader like horrifying mind control.The novel is about Reseune’s attempt to recreate genius: simply cloning a genius hasn't produced satisfactory results, so now they're trying to raise such a clone in a duplicate of the social and educational environment of the original.We follow the clone of Ariane Emory, a scary, brilliant scientist and powerful political leader, from birth through her adolescence.
When Ariane Emory (the first), head of Reseune genetic facilities, is murdered by Jordon Warrick, the next generation at Reseune has their shackles weakened just enough that they might be able to make a difference.
When politics don't stop and wait for Ariane 2 to grow up, she must walk a fine line between controlling and being controlled.In some ways Cyteen is the story of the murder of Ariane Emory, as the cover promises, but it is also much more than that.
Now I have to read Forty-thousand in Gehenna and Regenesis!
It's non stop psychological thriller with so many plot twists and unexpected turns that one can hardly keep up.
She makes me hate a character and then come to understand them if not like them in a most interesting way, uncovering layers and layers of meaning.I could hardly put it down and am now sad that it's over and I'll have to get myself involved in another book to get that feeling again.
So, it's off to Forty Thousand in Gehenna which I wish I'd read first.Listened to audio 4/2012.
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #383.http://www.sfbrp.com/archives/1511Wow, that felt like a long book. Not in a bad way, but I totally understand why the publishers wanted to split it into three books.
In fact, the ending reads more like a short story's openness than a novel's closedness - it just stopped, no resolution or conclusion at all.
What a cliffhanger!Cherryh touches lots of innovative futuristic topics like those human "slaves" called Azis or the concept of psychogenesis to name just a few.
Instead of diving deeper into those topics, she concentrates on Ari II's coming-of-age story.
I wouldn't say that her world-building was great.What I liked most about the novel was the innovative literaric figure of telling the story of Ari Emory by using the coming-of-age of her clone Ari II.
If “Brave New World” met The Gormenghast novels, this would be the offspring.
Like Gormenghast, Cyteen is not an easy book to read.
For one thing, it is very long book, at some 350,000 words.
It is also a slow book- it covers two decades in Cherryh’s Alliance-Union universe.
In fact, while the book is billed as a murder mystery, it is not- we don’t even discover the identity of the killer.
Instead, the real mystery that keeps the reader glued to the pages is what will come out of all the manipulation, and whether the protagonists are able to transcend the flaws of their predecessors.
Cyteen is a gripping and intense science fiction novel, set on the planet Cyteen in Cherryh's Merchanter Universe about 300 years in our future, when human cloning has become a reality.
Ariane Emory is a brilliant scientist, and when she dies under mysterious circumstances, her successors create a replicate of Emory and struggle to duplicate her childhood environment as well, so that the replicate will grow up under the same conditions and become the same person; Cyteen is the story of the second Ariane Emory.
Although it was originally published fifteen years ago, Cherryh's exploration of genetics, environment, and nature vs.
If you have the slightest interest in the inner lives of smart children, the origins of personality, fictional politics, or human cloning, you should read this book.If the central question of Stand On Zanzibar was "what does it mean to be human if we can't save ourselves?", the central question of Cyteen is "What does humanity mean when human minds can be made to order?"That said, how much you enjoy it will depend on how attached you get to the characters and how well you can follow the often obscure maneuvering of the various characters and factions.
This is a large book. A good one, but a large one. I discussed it with Scott McNulty on the podcast.
I couldnt do it anymore....the writing was great but I couldnt handle the pacing and yucky characters. People told me to hold out as it changes, but I couldnt do it.I am sure that this novel is a great piece of fiction, just wasnt my kind of thing
It seemed to me to be very different from how novels are written these days, but instead of feeling old-fashioned it felt original and powerful.And now, the jotted notes:It is a novel about consent, taking place in a society built in large part by means of slavery and rape and I don't think this should be downplayed.
There are so many scenes where Cherryh has CIT characters tell AZIs to perform emotional, sexual and physical labour for them and I have little doubt every time Ari tells Florian to "do something" for her, we are reading about rape, and the way Cherryh writes it doesn't hide it.
Šīs grāmatas klonu izveidošanas tehnoloģija neaprobežojas ar klonu armijas izveidi (neiztiek jau bez tā), te diezgan daudz tiek diskutēts par tādām lietām kā klonu tiesībām, radītāju atbildību, klona apmācība un kontrolēšana.
Reseune gan šis eksperiments nav pirmais, un viņiem šķiet, ka indivīda attīstību nosaka noteikti dzīves pagrieziena momenti, un nav jēgas ieslīgt detaļās.Šīs divas diskusijas tad arī bija galvenais iemesls, kādēļ es grāmatu vispār lasīju.
No šiem diviem cilvēkiem viens dažādu viltīgu intrigu rezultātā tiek nobīdīts perifērijā, bet viņa dēls Džastins (arī gudrs puika un ģēnijs) paliek Reseune, kurā visi no viņa vairās un ienīst.
The murder of a Union politician and scientist has lasting repercussions--particularly on her heir, a genetic and social clone.
This is the most accessible Cherryh novel I've read.
The length is deceptive, ostensibly allowing for a long view--and it is long--but primarily providing room for Cherryh to untangle her trademark density.
I miss her terseness, but the emotional intensity is still there and the themes of sexuality and consent benefit from more text and less subtext; it's an unsettling book with an engaging speculative premise, and Cherryh is unafraid to inhabit ambiguities--necessarily, given the content.
The main power on Cyteen is Reseune, a scientific facility that researches personality creation, meme propagation and cloning, and which creates azi, genetically engineered human clones who are programed from birth to hold certain values, follow certain scripts and fill certain positions in society.
Because some of Emory's theories and projects are too important to leave to anyone else...The premise allows Cherryh's fascination with personal motivation, deep-core values and cultural norms to come to the fore.
Several of the male characters have long-standing relationships with others of the same sex, but they are never referred to as gay or homosexual.
Even if the homosexual characters are treated as an aberration, they at least get to have long-lasting love relationships.
The plot structure also enables the author to play with our notions about various characters, constantly making one change their opinions of whom to identify with or support.
The science in the novel is more a background structure than something driving the narrative.
The end does feel a bit weak and too neat after the way the story has built up these various intersecting threads.
However, one can also look at it as the main character finally coming into her own.
If one were to keep that in mind, then the end does feel satisfying.
What good science fiction excells at is the exploration of ideas and possibilities -- in the case of Cyteen (which is a dreadful title and fortunately has nothing to do with cybernetic teenagers), ideas about cloning, genetic manipulation, nature/nurture, identity and so forth.
The novel handles these well, though in a world where they are so accepted that perhaps the larger questions don't get the exploration they might.
But in 680 pages of political intrigue, scientific possibilities, and human tragedies, I never became engaged with the text.
I can see why this book won a Nebula.
It's quite good!
I'm not sure how realistic any of it is, but that's ok.
If I slept more (i haz baby), I'd be tempted to think deeply about what this book is really writing about.
From Downbelow Station, I wasn't sure what to expect on Cyteen and in Union Space, but it was much more human than I'd expected!
Cherryh did a good job of future-proofing her ideas, though they are still a little dated.
I look forward to reading the sequel, since it deals with the major unanswered question from this book.
What good timing I have!
