https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30363088-the-keeper-of-lost-things
He dies, leaving his home, Padua, to Laura for whom it is a sanctuary, with a condition that she makes efforts to restore the lost items to their true owners.
Whilst owning Padua brings security and delight to Laura, the real prize turns out to be the task Anthony sets for it offers Laura a path toward resurrecting her life again, tenuously learning to trust people and connect with the world again.
Laura, with the help of Freddy and Sunshine, sets up a website documenting the lost collection only to find it becomes so much more than she envisaged.Ruth Hogan has weaved an intelligent, magical and fantastical tale of loss, love, heartbreak, redemption and hope.
I consider myself to be a modern woman —- I rarely tap into an appreciation for people’s sentimental tchotchkes.
When housekeeper Laura inherits the job as “Keeper of Lost Things”....and tries to reunite them to their owner, she gets inventive, and gains new friends.
please enjoy your favorite drink tea ‘ properly ‘ when you read this novel .....Ha....Here is an excerpt that might warm some readers hearts ( if you’re in the mood as I was)....
Padua was clearly a house where all these things, including the tray cloth, were part of every day life”.
Lovely book ....read it when you’re in that special mood!!!
*3 Stars for originality!*There is an undeniable sense of mystery and intrigue in something “lost”, and if considered enough, a single misplaced object can raise a multitude of questions: Who was the previous owner?
Who are they now without it?Each of these “things” tell their own story, and will speak to you if you're willing to listen… Anthony Peardew is THE KEEPER OF LOST THINGS.
He catalogues the exact place and moment he found them in hopes to one day reunite even one of them with their rightful owner.
I loved the symbolic representation of these lost items, and how they resemble each character’s journey to finding their own way; their own home.
Witty, Quirky, and Charming!The Keeper of Lost Things is an enchanting story about love, loss, friendship, and healing. A wonderful cast of endearing, quirky characters made this book a pleasure to read!  Writer Anthony Peardew collects lost objects. He’s spent years and years collecting, hoping that one day these items will be returned to their rightful owner. Anthony’s mission stems from his own loss. When Anthony dies, he leaves his collection of lost objects to Laura, his caretaker. Laura i
Witty, Quirky, and Charming!The Keeper of Lost Things is an enchanting story about love, loss, friendship, and healing.
Writer Anthony Peardew collects lost objects.
When Anthony dies, he leaves his collection of lost objects to Laura, his caretaker.
She must fulfill Anthony’s mission and try to reunite the lost objects with their rightful owners.
Eventually Laura, Freddy, and Sunshine find a way to reunite the objects with their owners, and once they do so, the healing process can begin.The narrative of Eunice and Bomber is woven between Laura and Anthony’s story.
These two characters have a deep connection to the lost objects.
‘’Found, sixth carriage from the front, 14:42 train from London Bridge to Brighton. Deceased unknown. God bless and rest in peace.’’ My relationship with this book has been a bit weird from the start. For almost a year, its beautiful cover with the peaceful cobalt blue background and the quiet pink beauty of its flowers has been calling my name from the shelf of my favourite bookshop. And every time, I would take it in my hands, read the blurb, scam and skim through a few paragraphs and return
When the wonderful Traveling Sisters group decided to have it as our nest read, I thought the time had finally come.The story is quite interesting and humane.
Anthony’s journey is shared by Laura who tries to leave a miserable life behind with the aid of Sunshine, a young woman who is special, unique and the most beautiful character of the novel.There are many things to appreciate in this story but there are also quite a lot of problems, in my opinion.
And just how many times can I read about ‘’the lovely cup of tea’’ and remain sane?The characters of Anthony, Sunshine, Eunice and Bomber were very interesting.
“The Keeper of Lost Things” is, in my opinion, a mediocre and sentimental love story that operates with superficial characters and unbelievable scenes.
For instance, The Keeper of Lost Things turns out to be an old man who collects lost things he finds and then writes down where and when he found them.
One thing I did like about this part, though, was that he’s a writer who writes cute and imaginative stories to go along with these lost things.
How did this story end up on a list of “Best Fiction of the Year”?
Charming, light and whimsical are the words I would use to describe The Keeper of Lost Things.
One story features middle aged Laura who inherits a house full of lost objects which she is tasked with reuniting with their owners.
The other story features the lengthy unlikely friendship between Eunice and Bomber.
What makes this one good are the details such as stories about the lost objects and Laura's friendship with a neighbourhood girl.
The writing is fluid and enjoyable.
I gather this is Ruth Hogan's debut, and I hope she writes more books because she is a lovely storyteller.
Laura, who is completely lost, after marrying a dolt of a husband she probably never loved, comes to be Anthony's housekeeper at a wonderful home.
When Anthony passes, he leaves the house to her and a condition, that she begins to return the lost things to their rightful owners.
At times, you also heard the stories that Anthony wrote about the lost items, then you throw a ghost into the mix.
Such a wonderful thing, to return items to people who have lost them, often times, it was more the memory of the item that made them happy, rather than the item itself.
This book was a real pleasure to read.
Two main stories alternate and meander gently through the book, interspersed with lovely anecdotes about the lost things.
Some of these are quite sharp and counteract the general sweetness of the book.
Mind you this is a book which starts and ends with a biscuit tin full of someone's earthly remains so it is not all sweetness and light!At the end I discover that this is a debut novel (impressive), the author comes from Bedford in the U.K (so do I) and that she wrote much of the book while she was being treated for cancer.
Congratulations Ms Hogan on such a good first book and may you write many more!
Enchanting!!! A fairytale type of story and I loved it!! Funny, witty, sad and very endearing!! The characters and all the side stories were very engaging. (I’m off to make a lovely cup of tea!)
If I had a dollar for every time the author wrote,"a lovely cup of tea", I could buy another book.
I was so drawn to the premise of this book -- a man mourning the loss of the love of his life collects lost objects, hoping to reunite them with their owners, meanwhile writing short stories about each object. So much potential there.It started off with charm but quickly fell apart into disjointed parallel storylines, with so many plot contrivances I was groaning. Add the ancillary characters who were only there to move the plot and by the time the ghost (yes, ghost) came in I was pretty much done.
After listening to too many mysteries, I needed a change of pace.
At first, it was somewhat confusing to listen to, as the POVs and storylines change with each chapter.
But once I got the hang of it, especially the back stories on some of the lost items, it clipped along at a nice pace.
Lovely, sweet, humorous, sad.
If I had been reading instead of listening, I would have been highlighting like mad.
The writing is divine, especially Sunshine’s way of speaking.
But here, the “deceased diva” just adds a bit of humor and poignancy to the equation.
Love in different forms, from different angles, and stories in the little things lost.
And then there is the Keeper of Lost Things, who knew how to connect the dots for those who needed to find ending in the clues.
I'm just adding the first introductory paragraph here:A charming, clever, and quietly moving debut novel of of endless possibilities and joyful discoveries that explores the promises we make and break, losing and finding ourselves, the objects that hold magic and meaning for our lives, and the surprising connections that bind us.A perfect description for a perfect read.
If you need a chicken-soup-for-the-soul read, this is the one for you.I loved everything about it.
The primary storyline is modern day and revolves around Laura, an assistant to aging author Anthony Peardew.
Laura has suffered some major setback in her life but finds refuge at Padua, Peardew's estate.
After her employer dies, Laura is left with the task of finding the owners of all of the lost items that he had collected over the years.
The story is beautifully written, humorous, and includes many colorful and charming characters, human and canine, along with a few odious ones.
I would describe the novel as a modern day fairy tale in which fantastical events intertwine all of the characters and their fates.
Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart. Marcus Aurelius  An uplifting, enchanting and marvelously crafted escapist read with minimal fluff and maximum appeal. The Keeper of Lost Things is the perfect antidote for what ails us. As much a tale about the loss of things as people, love and even self, the threads that connect us and the kindness of strangers.Hogan has seamlessly plotted two separate stories, e
And I’ve already put her new novel, The Wisdom of Sally Red Shoes on my list for when I need a small dose of frothy, feel-good bookishness.__________Excerpt from an interview with Ruth Hogan for those of us who like to know the inspiration for a story and just a teeny bit more: The Keeper Of Lost Things began with a single sentence that came into my head on a train journey and that sentence eventually became the first line of the novel.
Sometimes when you are reading a book, you feel you want to join the characters, have some tea and biscuits with them, share their laughter and sorrows and cheer them in their journeys, be a part of them, be with them. And when you read the final chapter, the final sentence, and you see THE END, you feel miserable that the time has come for you to say your farewells. Well, this is one of those books. An enchanting debut novel from Ruth Hogan about love, friendship and passion, life and afterlife, acceptance and endurance.Absolutely loved it!
I used to imagine stories about the previous owners (and the ones before that, and so on) of these objects that ended up in our home.
God bless and rest in peace.”Laura, a young woman who is working for this Keeper of Lost Things since the day she spotted the want ad that Anthony Peardew had placed.
I loved the stories of the lost things.
I loved the unusual and funny names the author used in her book and the individual characters are definitely unique and perfectly suited to her stories.
There's a gorgeous cover to this book too which is becoming quite a trademark of this author, bright and colourful with little pictures of some of the 'lost' items dotted around the roses which they themselves are symbolic to the story."The Keeper of Lost Things" is beautiful to read and really quite unique, I would without doubt recommend this exquisite book wholeheartedly.
Everybody should read this stunning book, it truly is a real tonic to the soul, oozing warmth, its funny, compassionate, heart warming and a sheer delightful to read.
;)E que capa!Objectos perdidos, disseminados sobre rosas vermelhas.Cada objecto, uma história linda e triste -- uma rosa com espinhosEpisódios da vida real -- ficções que bem podiam ser verdades...E as personagens são malhas duma rede que se vai tecendoNós que se atam nos momentos certosPara que a rede persista, não rasgue, não rompa!...Seres que se complementam e completam, mostrando que nada acontece por acaso neste todo misterioso, onde vidas pontuais coexistem e se interligam, num plano insondável, que as abarca e transcende!...Original, Estranho, Maravilhoso!E tem brinde -- o cocktail trás cereja:É um hino em prosa à amizade -- haverá melhor presente na vida?!...
I was sent a copy of The Keeper of Lost Things by Goodreads, which means that it is a shame that I feel duty bound to put up a review of this book.
I pretty much knew from paragraph one that I wasn’t going to like it.
It is the worst book I have read in a long, long time, and certainly the worst book I have finished.
The most complimentary word I can find to describe it is ‘cute’.
If you were thinking of reading it because of the cute cover, just find another book.
3.5 stars rounded down!This book was such a wonderful, delightful, quiet and heartwarming tale that I wish I would have loved a little bit more. My mind wandered quite a bit while reading this one and I had a hard time staying focused on this story but, I absolutely loved the ending & the premise of this story though!This is a feel-good story with a sweet and pleasing ending that I am happy that I read though. Would recommend!I think I’m ready to read a fast-paced thriller! 😀
Maybe with a single positive - the first three chapters were quite good, and it's a terrible shame that Anthony Peardew didn't stick around because things went decidedly downhill after he died.
I started to really worry about the book when it became clear that there would be no shift in the narrative voice whatsoever - and what I mean by that is that, when the little 'stories behind the items' were included, they were narrated in the exact same manner as the text that had come before it, with Laura in centre stage.
By far the most AWFUL part of the book was Sunshine, the 'dancing drome' character with Down Syndrome.
Our heroine, Laura is lunching alone in a restaurant and overhears two women with Dickens-worthy names (Marjory Wadscallop and Winnie Cripp) gossiping about why a well-known elderly author, Laura’s boss, would have a young woman living in his house.
(We know how long that will last, don’t we?) He’s in charge of the magnificent rose garden, a tribute to Anthony’s late love.And later, cue the girl across the street, Sunshine.
(view spoiler)[Sunshine has Down’s Syndrome, which has very recognisable physical characteristics, so Laura and Freddy would have known that, but we are introduced to her as just a quirky, outspoken young girl until much later.
The Keeper of Lost Things was very different from the books I usually read. It had a lot of different storylines and characters. Some of the characters were very likeable and my favourite character was Sunshine. I would like to thank NetGalley and John Murray Press for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
A ray of sunshine of a novel. Beautifully written. Every character I cared about. I highly recommend to contemporary readers as the whole story just pulls you in.
A delightful feel good story.
It's one of those cute, sweet, Hallmark-movie type stories that I wish I did like, but the simpleness and sweetness and the obvious way that everything wraps up perfectly is so implausible that it made me groan in frustration.The story opens with a writer, Anthony, who enjoys collecting lost things (such as a lone puzzle piece in the street, a forgotten umbrella in the park, etc.) When Anthony dies, his assistant, Laura, is tasked with trying to return the hundreds of lost items to their rightful owners.An impossible task, right?
If you are a lover of wonderfully told stories where people truly love one another, then this book is ever so right for you.
This was a feel good story, one that will propel you out of the doldrums and make you quite glad that you got to spend some time with Anthony, Laura, Sunshine, Freddy, Eunice, and Bomber and least I forget some lovely four legged friends.Imagine finding and labeling and keeping things you have found in your lifetime.
Now imagine wanting to find the people who lost those things.
Dear Reader,This was truly one of the most beautifully written books that I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
Once I'd read the first page I knew it had found a new home.
Wonderfully descriptive,this story weaves the life stories of Anthony,Therese,Laura, Freddy,Sunshine,Eunice and Bomber into a rich tapestry of daily life burnished with its myriad sorrows and joys.Peppered with emotive issues,soulful moments and delightful snapshots into these colourful characters,we are privy to a tale encompassing love,second chances, familial bonds and companionship.
I loved this addictive,deeply compelling,'food for the soul' story.
