https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61986.Jack_of_Shadows
He was caught in the beginning of the book and executed.
At that point I had to ask myself, "Who the heck wrote this part and why did the Grand Master of science fiction and fantasy let him/her destroy his work???" The very end became quite good - probably the best part, but at that time it was way too late.
Add to this the fact that during the bad part of the book I stopped caring about Jack and his fate and you will understand why I gave one of my all-time favorite science fiction writers only 3 stars this time.
Jack of Shadows takes place on a world that does not rotate and so half of the planet is always sun side and the other half of the planet is perpetual night.
Like Cugel’s adventures, this story involves an extended journey in which Jack encounters the strange wonders of the world and the many interesting characters living in it.
Despite that, Zelazny makes you understand Jack and provides not only a reason for his behavior, but also a very interesting moment of “redemption” at the end of the story.
The world is fixed; the East Pole points ever towards the sun, and the eastern hemisphere is forever in daylight and ruled by science.
The West Pole is in eternal darkness, and the Darkside is ruled by magic.
well, certainly, he has an opinion on the subject) who draws power from shadows (as opposed to the other Darkside lords, whose powers are geographically fixed).
A potentially routine heist goes badly wrong, leaving Jack to make his way back from the West Pole through dangers untold and hardships unnumbered, his mind fixed upon revenge upon those who wronged him, a quest that will take him through the Twilight into the Dayside and back.
Time to te-read some Roger Zelazny stuff.
Though I re-read the Amber series periodically, I've been very lax about revisiting the other stuff of this top-tier fantastic author!
😯Post Re-read: I remember reading this AGES ago, and I was just disappointed that it wasn't Amber.
In retrospect, as an older, wiser (and more well-read) person, I find that to be a narrow opinion.Yes, this book is definitely not Amber, but maybe that's for the best.
And, for a standalone book, there's quite a fair bit if depth to the setting.
(Though that always was Zelaznys strong suit, IMO.)In short, not Amber, for better or worse.
2Aug2016 - currently rereading with the Sci-fi and Heroic Fantasy group here:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...This was one of the first Zelazny books I read & it's still fantastic.
The only ones that much time is spent on are Dark Siders who have no soul.
Jack personifies most & his thoughts are well documented.
The few glimpses we get of those with souls are normal, complicated people.
The ending was fantastic.7Dec09 - A very interesting fantasy/SF story.
Jack, the hero, is an amoral, immortal whose self-interest leads further & further into an interesting quest that ultimately changes the world.
(MacBeth) Zelazny blends fantasy with SF until you're not quite sure which label applies.
The magic beings on the dark side are usually limited as the their power emanates from a location.
His power emanates or is drawn from shadow.
While he is almost powerless in full light or full darkness access to any shadow makes him tremendously powerful.
Due to his power he can function on both the dark magical side of the planet and the scientific light side.As noted I like the book.
I do recommend it as it's a well written if short book.
Jack of Shadows, or Shadowjack, is a wizard and rogue, the best thief of his age.
Daysiders have souls, Darksiders are eternally reborn in the Dung Pits of Glyve.
Jack gets decapitated in the opening chapter and seeks revenge upon waking in the aforementioned Dung Pits.
On the way to his goal, he gets imprisioned by an old enemy, spends time as a professor at a university on the Dayside, and finds Kolwria, the Key That Was Lost.
Once he gets his revenge, a whole slew of other issues pop up.I found Jack of Shadows to be a very original work.
Jack reminded me of a magical version of the Rowan Atkinson Blackadder character.
I missed Vance's embellishment, and found that while there were moments of real effectiveness--Jack imprisoned and dealing with the Lord of Bats, and Jack journeying the strangely populous underworld to the Forbidden Planet-style Great Machine at the center of it all--it simply didn't leap off the page.Where it lost its charm was the lightside, which by design or default is modeled after the 1960s, with references to punch cards, cigarettes, automobiles, and "computer time" as though using a centralized time-share system.
Jack keeps getting killed - he's that kind of guy.
He throws away the pebble, and laboriously makes his way back to what passes for civilization on the dark side of the Earth, where Magic rules.
Jack's curious to find out more.
Somewhere along the way, a wise man tells him what the pebble is: it turns out that it's his immortal soul.
He's thrown it away into a pile of dung so often he's lost count.You may want to remember this useful piece of information next time you find yourself in the Dung Pits of Glyve.
What a terrific read of science and magic.
Roger Zelazny is the supreme master at mixing the two together.
Roger Zelazny truly is fantastic at making someone despicable actually likeable.
The Hero, more likely the anti-hero (it is up to you to choose) of the story, Jack is a character most would think to dislike, but simply for Zelazny work of masterful science/fantasy fiction, and in the first few chapters and especially at the end he makes you end up rooting for Jack, the Jack of Shadows!
This is a book I plan on reading again.
I am probably more at about three and a half stars for this one.
Zelazny is at his best when his talented, witty protagonist (often pretty much the same guy from book to book, even fans will have to admit) is fighting the uphill battle as the cheeky upstart against the powers that be in some very fantastic reality the author creates.
I mentioned I re-read the book, probably for the 3-4th time, but it has been many years.
Yet even reading the 2nd half fresh and the first half familiar, I enjoyed the first half more.

This is one of Zelazny's shorter novels, and seems to be one that many readers either love or dislike immensely. While not as tautly-plotted as his myth-based Lord of Light or Creatures of Light and Darkness, I was mesmerized by the setting and the somewhat anti-hero characterization. I think Zelazny best examined his theme of science versus magic in this one, something he would return to again and again later in his career. I also loved his writing style, which was more ornate and lyrical than in most of his more popular works. This is one of my favorites.
I read plenty of Zelazny when I was younger.
The one novel that eluded me for a long time was Jack of Shadows.
Zelazny's control is exquisite.Perhaps the greatest thing about this novel is the set-up of the world depicted.
This novel was a delight to read.
Of all the Zelazny novels I have read, only Creatures of Light and Darkness has pleased me more (a very lyrical novel that isn't the favourite of most readers, but which I adore).
Roger Zelazny (1937–1995). This first hardcover edition is signed by Roger Zelazny.
Franky, I am quite shocked that Roger Zelazny was capable of such thoroughly craptastic writing.
Jack of Shadows is one of Roger Zelazny's earliest novels, although at the time of its publication the author was already well known and highly regarded in the SF/F industry for his Hugo Award winning novels This Immortal and Lord of Light.
Jack of Shadows feels in many ways like a throwaway idea that Zelazny had while working on his Amber series (Nine Princes in Amber was published a year earlier) that he decided to work quickly into publishable form.
Jack of Shadows was said (per Wikipedia) to have been written in one draft, and the lack of polish shows.
The only thing better would be Jack Vance doing a Zelazny tribute.In my more wistful moments, I like to imagine a world in which Jack Vance and Roger Zelazny were massively profitable authors with seven digit sales figures while Terry Brooks and Robert Jordan were modestly successful but never crossed into the mainstream.
I picture a world in which the industry standard is delivering an original setting, a compelling society, an intriguing main character, a complete plot arc, and one or two other ideas in less than 200 pages, while pooping out 500+ pages of halfassed Tokienisms would be considered lazy and pointless.
That's the world I wish I lived in.
Literally couldn't say enough about this book. I read it every so often and as short as it is it packs a lot in there. Jack is one of my favorite characters out of all the books I've read. I most enjoy the fact that for the most part he uses his powers for good but at times he abuses them as well if he feels necessary. All around just a great story and I'd recommend to anyone who reads sci-fi or anything to do with magic as well.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 3/5I always look forward to reading Zelazny.
"Slapdash" carries with it the connotation of carelessness but more specifically refers to the haphazard character of a work.
I'm convinced that slapdash can be perfected; that worlds with inexplicable boundaries, undeveloped characters, unexplained powers, and offbeat continuity can be transformed from their disparate and fragmentary pieces into a much greater whole.
Some of the pieces are there: there's a rakish protagonist with bizarre and enigmatic abilities.
Each piece is a scene, though, never carefully weighed or placed.
In a perfected slapdash what is left unexplained and incongruous should add to the tale.
Дори и името на знаменития Роджър Зелазни да не присъстваше отгоре, има нещо притегателно, направо магнетично в корицата на „Джак от сенките” (изд.
Могъщо създание, сякаш излязъл от „1001 нощ” джин с демонични криле, среща на скалист връх мистериозна, закачулена фигура, с развян от вятъра плащ.
Всъщност, това е едно от по-кратките произведения на Зелазни и не е част от цикъл или поредица.
Това прави „Джак от сенките” и перфектна първа стъпка за читатели, които искат да са любопитни да се запознаят с творчеството на автора, но се чудят от къде да започнат.
Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
By the end of chapter one, Jack is resigned to his beheading, but vows that he will come back - though from a ghastly place called the Dungpits of Glyve - and will wreck vengeance on his list of enemies which includes the two contestants, the executioner, the games organiser and the Lord of Bats himself.Next, Jack wakes up in the pits and has to regain his senses and travel back through great dangers, showing resourcefulness and also an amoral lack of compassion or sensitivity, possibly because all darksiders lack souls.
The setting is reminiscent of Jack Vance's Dying Earth.
Although, initially, I got a Darrell Schweitzer vibe from the characters and settings.
This holds true for the first part of the story.
The second part, well, it was jarring with the stark difference in settings.
Going in I imagined that if the dark half of the world was archaic and magic worked then the light side of the world would be the pinnacle of science.
The light side of the world was mundane, ordinary, nothing to differentiate it from today.
This did not sit well with my preconceptions of the story.
It's going on the discard pile.
"Джак от Сенките" (Бард, 2015) също по никакъв начин не ме разочарова, а дори още повече ме накара да харесвам Зелазни, неговото въображение, нормите, които обхваща, начинът му да тълкува нещата, които сам създава и едновременно с това паралелно да създава два свята, които в рамките на допустимото и за удоволствие на читателя да си сътрудничат и да бъдат зависими един от друг, а героите му, дори и не толкова многопластови, да се открояват с индивидуалност и някаква скрита вътрешна сила, оправдаваща ги.Джак е най-известният крадец, идващ от Тъмната страна, един лик, който всички познават, а мнозина дори не смеят да произнесат името му, защото...той обитава Сенките, той се движи чрез тях и чува чрез тях, а всяко изричане на името му, където и да е по света го подканва и привлича, така че Джак може да бъде навсякъде и по всяко време.
Джак от сенките отмъщава за смъртта си: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/j...
Главният герой в началото ми се струваше обещаващ, но Зелазни така и го остави недоразвит, както и постоянното прескачане на ключови събития по-скоро ме остави объркан, а не удовлетворен.
По едно време дори си мислех, че книгата е част от поредица и просто са пропуснати събития, описани подробно другаде, но не би, просто авторът си пише така.
В крайна сметка връщах страници назад, дирех какво изпускам… Зелазни прелита смело над месеци и години, направо е пропуснал откриването на ключа към могъществото за Джак, но пък оставя доволно място за забавните му спорове с неговите душмани, които той има привилегията да убие по няколко пъти.Издателска къща БАРД​http://knigolandia.info/book-review/j...
Джак се впуска в луди приключения(Цялото ревю е в блога ми Книжен Петър: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2016/0...)След новото издание на „Създания от светлина и мрак“ на Роджър Зелазни (http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/0...), се появи отново и също толкова известната „Джак от Сенките“ („Бард“, 2015, с превод на Юлиян Стойнов).
Ако трябва да ги сравнявам по някакъв начин, втората се оказа доста по-лесна за възприемане, и дори ме увлече дотолкова, че я приключих бързо.
Зелазни винаги ми е бил особен като автор.
Скоро ще си припомня тази тяхна поредица от много хубавото сборно издание на „Бард“, излязло преди броени дни.
(Продължава в блога: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2016/0...)
Много добра книжка!
Започнах да я чета без някакви особени очаквания, но силно ми въздейства.
Разказва се за Джек от сенките – легендарен крадец и много интересен герой.
Действието се развива в свят, където в едната половина е постоянен ден, а в другата цари мрак.
Освен увлекателна смесица между фентъзи и фантастика, историята също така дава доста философски поглед...Например, много ми хареса разговорът между Джек и единствения му приятел Морнингстар...извадих си няколко мисли.
А как Роджър Зелазни може в сравнително кратка книжка, да каже толкова много неща – ето на това му казвам страхотна магия!
The nightside thief Jack of Shadows is killed for merely contemplating a theft, but those from the nightside have multiple lives and a thirst for vengeance...The main character is not particularly likable and as a tale of revenge it's fairly good but it's no Hamlet.
The thing with even Zelazny's lesser works is he had an incredible talent for writing mythologically.
You can feel the other stories spinning off from a person or a place mentioned in this one, perhaps with a vague sense that those stories must have been burned with the Library of Alexandria or else surely we would have heard of them.
✭✭✭✭½
I’ve found that the best way to sum up this book is, “It’s a Roger Zelazny novel.”For anyone who doesn’t really know what that means, I’ll try to explain.With a world where one half is perpetually day, and the other is night, the populations of both are similarly segregated.
There’s some philosophical discussions of looking at the world in different ways, but mostly this is just allowed to make the novel something of a mish-mash, with parts fantasy, and modern day academia.There’s a secondary-character subplot that never quite comes into it’s own, along with a few more that do.
