https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31624.The_Complete_Works_of_O_Henry
I was spoon-fed "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi" and "Alias Jimmy Valentine" until it was certain, as with polio vaccine, that I would be immune for life.
It appeared that the book contained some stories I didn't remember, if I'd ever read them at all.
Long story short: in dire need of a fix of print, I read the book.This was a different O.
The writer I was encountering was so obviously presenting two stories at a time.
And all the more interesting for it.I bought and read Smith's biography of Porter.
O. Henry is worth reading.
I enjoyed this one, except that several (not most) of his stories describe members of minority groups in words we no longer use.
He's a terrific wordsmith and sent me to the dictionary frequently with words that are listed in the OAED as "archaic".
It isn't as if he doesn't work over some themes, but each story stands on its on.I read from an unindexed Kindle version, and I'm not going to go back and count, so I'm not sure how many stories are in this anthology, but reading a few of them each day has taken many, many weeks.

Too many stories in a row reveal that O. Henry was a bit of a one trick pony. But what a trick and with that pony, the show's still irrestible.The ever-present twist, great language, fun stories, characters and times well described and interesting.I love O. Henry and I also clearly like sentence fragments.
The master of the surprise ending may insert a turnabout word or phrase at any point in his narrative or dialogue…you may miss it (as I did many times in spite of reading under the best of all possible circumstances — viz., on a quiet little hill in an out-of-the-way corner of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden)…at which point, you will have lost the entire thread of the story.And get used to the Latin “viz.” (anglice: ‘namely’).
Read: The Four MillionHeart of the WestThe Gentle GrafterRoads of DestinyCabbages and KingsOptionsSixes and SevensRolling Stones or the first 1,000 or so pages.
Henry's brilliance lies in his ability to capture,with absolute precision, the idiosyncrasies of the average Joe (and Jane, of course) and portray them with such candor and humor that every character is endearing and sears into your memory.
O. Henry doesn't attempt to unravel or psychoanalyze his characters but serves them up quite deliciously with his charming wit and excellent puns, warts and all, as they are.
A story- teller par excellence!
Be it romance, comedy or plain good old Irony- a genre grossly unexplored in today's time!
A man for all seasons, with stories that capture your emotions no matter how many times you read them.
Clearly there are some real stinkers here (I'm smelling you, Gift of the Magi).
But every once in a while these stories seem to collapse space and time and someone living 100 years ago has my exact same sense of humor and it's like looking at photographs of your ancestors and realizing they were just like you.Sorry I'm sort of having a Dead Poet's Society moment.
Feel free to beat me with a crowbar.Bring a sense of patience and a dictionary from about 1910.
Sometimes you'll feel like you're translating Chaucer when you read an O.Henry story, but unlike Chaucer, there is actually a payoff.
O. Henry is noted for his entertaining stories that always end with a twist.
The Gift of the Maggi is his most famous, but he has written hundreds of them.
I love how he draws you into each story.
It is as if he gets you leaning forward more and more, sneaks around behind you, and then kicks out your chair with a big finish.
Hugely entertaining.
Having said that, I find it very difficult to anticipate what his twist will be and end up laughing or crying depending on which way the ending went.
I've had this volume on my night table for years. In between books, I'd read one or two of the stories. O. Henry had a gift for language and irony. The stories take the reader back in time and are such fun. Nobody writes like this anymore, which makes the experience a nice change of pace. Unfortunately, I've read them all. Pity.
Short stories are entertaining but formulaic when read one right after the other. You find yourself trying to guess what the next coincidental twist at the end might possibly be. Great, outrageous epithets and flights of fancy-dancy language make up for the over-reliance on coincidental circumstances. Love the stories set in New York.
I haven't read this book cover to cover, but have to have an O. Henry fix every few months. I love his observations of human nature and his twists at the end, just when you think that you've figured out what is going to happen. Not all of his stories are happy, but all of them make you think or hope or try harder to make the world a better place.
If ever one wishes to indulge in irony, O. Henry is a great place to start. I inherited this rather frail copy. I turn the pages with care and generally look for a gutenberg version if I want to actually work with the text.
The absolute master of the short story. This collection and an equally good collection of stories by Saki got me hooked to the short story genre for life.
Each story is fairly typical of his work - short, the longest in this edition being four pages; having a happy ending which may seem a little sentimental to modern tastes (though that doesn't stop people reading, say, Louisa M.
(A plot shared by several, for example, is the rich man not permitting his daughter to marry the poor but honest man she loves but whom he believes is a fortune hunter.) This emphasis, which seems to be on the sentimental and arch side to a modern reader, makes Henry's writing seem old-fashioned; but it cannot be denied that he was a master of the short story genre.The Gentle GrafterThis particular collection of O.
Henry short story is a masterpiece; but I'd still recommend a complete edition of his works, just because he has written so many great short stories and you never know in which collection they might turn up.
Stories like "The Last Leaf", "Municipal Report", "A Double-Dyed Deceiver", "The Whirligig of Life", and many others, are emotional and touching, each in its own way; many of his stories are sad and even tragic, and some are genuine tear-jerkers.
O. Henry's short stories form a unique world, and this world deserves to be explored to the full.
Favorite stories:The Gift of the MagiThe Pimienta Pancakes"Me?" said Jud. "I don't ever eat 'em."A Chaparral PrinceLast night he came with his armed knights and captured the ogre's castle. Roads of Destiny
Didn't read the whole set but did enjoy the stories. Found that I enjoy a longer story to keep me involved.O Heny was a great story teller and each story has a twist. Had to admit that reading on a Kindle helped check the vocabulary used - not your average scope.
What a guy
His work was contemporary, and the stories result in a nice “snapshot” of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and I suspect many readers will appreciate this feature—this is one of my favourite time periods to read about as the transition from an agrarian to an industrial society naturally results in “growing pains” for those involved.
Henry, and I feel that taking the time to read this collection was worthwhile.As a note, I would point out that this is a big volume of work written with small print.
With poems and short story collections, I recommend reading one or two at a time so that they don’t all run together.
Henry was a prolific and popular writer and here is collected all of his output in 1,692 pages.
Collected from 14 different books he published in his lifetime (including a couple of posthumous collections) these stories mostly run from 4 to 10 pages that can be read in minutes.
Henry wrote about with casual and apparently facile knowledge, which makes the thumbnail biography with which I started this review the more fascinating.
Or maybe if we read close enough between the lines we can read his biography in the gentle humor, irony, optimism, and acceptance of fate in his writing voice.
Some of the stories were great...some left me cold. I found myself bouncing between admiration for O Henry's incredible vocabulary and distaste for some of his stereotypical commentary. He is an unusual writer who illuminates even as he confounds.
Henry's stories, for the vibrant pictures of character and personality and the vivid snapshots of New England, New York, and Out West life.
And, this anthology is just what it promises: ALL of the stories.
I would recommend slimmer collections of his best stories for someone who wants to read O.
Henry for the first time, because the chronological ordering of stories in this anthology takes wading through as you follow O.
To me, this book is for those already familiar with many of the stories, who want to see exactly how the author progressed over his lifetime.
1) The Four Million2) Heart of the West3) The Gentle Grafter4) Roads of Destiny5) Cabbages and Kings6) Options7) Sixes and Sevens8) Rolling Stones9) The Pewee10) Nothing to Say11) The Murderer12) Some Postscripts13) Two Portraits14) A Contribution15) The Old Farm16) Vanity17) The Lullaby Boy18) Chanson de Boheme19) Hard to Forget20) Drop a Tear in This Slot21) Tamales22) Some Letters23) An Early Parable24) The Story of "Holding Up a Train"25) Whirligigs26) The Voice of the City27) The Trimmed Lamp28) Strictly Business29) Waifs and Strays
I love reading O. Henry stories to discover the unanticipated conclusions that O. Henry delivers to the reader. The only comment I have about the way this volume was produced was to make the type slightly larger so people with less than 20/20 vision could read it easier. Good Foreword to this book as written by Harry Hansen.
The title should read "With A Forward By Harry Hansen". Obviously, the author is O. Henry.This is a two volume set published by Doubleday in 1953.O. Henry is one of my favorite authors who is know for his surprise endings. I love reading short stories at nighttime just before bed and this collection is just the thing!
I treasure this book, love "The Gift of the Magi" and "The Last Leaf" (thanks to a wonderful theatrical experience with my son, who's a director), but am completely partial to "The Ransom of Red Chief."
Short stories are a great idea for book club too. Simple with some profound meaning in many of them for discussion.
Fun stories, glad to have picked this up.
My favorite is "The Girl".
