https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/455900.Sir_Knight_of_the_Splendid_Way
Cliché in places, but also very spiritually deep and it has beautiful writing. Very similar to Pilgrim's Progress in places, but overall it's unique enough to feel like its own story.
An absolutely brilliant adventure. Very similar to Pilgrim Progress, but less allegorical and more theatrical. The ending will tear at your heart, and warm it at the same time. I definitely want to re-read this book!
Against the things of this world that try to rob us of our relationship with Christ.The key to Constant overcoming his enemies is to keep focused on the Vision of the Face.
At times, like all of us, he falls astray and messes up, but is soon set back on the right path by the most gracious and kind King.
This book was also a very good reminder of the enemies I face every day.
Mom and Jacob rates this 4 stars and Ellie rated it 5 stars. We listened to the audio version from Lamplighter Theatre. We love all of their audios. Ben and I gave this to Jacob when he accepted Christ to be his Savior on 12/12/14. Words can not convey our happiness for Jacob.
I loved this book ! The message in it is so good. This is something I will definatly want my children to read someday !
Every boy should read this book-it will teach him what is means to be a man.
Basically Pilgrim's Progress but with a little more sword fighting. I enjoyed this take on it, and found a few parts made me teary eyed. This book does suffer a little from the typical indie author syndrome of needing another editing pass, but not nearly as badly as some I've seen.
Another great book. We highly recommend listening to the Lamplighter Theatre Audio CD.
King Arthur meets Pilgrim's Progress in this excellent allegory! Enjoyed it as a child.
It's packed with adventure in its truest forms: we seldom see God's providence for what it is when we're in the midst of the journey or at a fork in the road.This book also gives one of the most important things that's lacking in most modern literature: a clear picture of good and evil.
There is no gray area in this story, which I believe makes it an excellent choice for literature to be put into the hands of children.
I listened to the Lamplighter Audio Theatre version of this book, and it was very well-done. I'm not going to compare this to Pilgrim's Progress, becuase although the stories are the same type of allegorical tale, they are quite different in how it's presented. Pilgrim's Progress certainly has more depth, I feel, than Sir Knight of the Splendid Way, but I still loved this story and will definitely come back it again.
But it's the story that I "like" and don't "love." Let me explain.First, Sir Knight of the Splendid Way is an allegory of the spiritual journey that we're on throughout our lives.
Not that Pilgrim's Progress is light, but Sir Knight of the Splendid Way just gave me goosebumps in a bad way.
Sure, there was the Splendid Way, but it didn't seem to be a well-charted road like the path to the Celestial City in Pilgrim's Progress.
Sir Knight of the Splendid Way and Pilgrim's Progress are sort of supposed to be from the same cloth.
Never have I read a book which spoke to me in the depths of my soul quite like this one.
Saint Paul tells us to put on the armor of God so that we may be strong in the Lord and able to stand our ground against the attacks of the devil.
This book.
An allegory, it so beautifully captures the Christian life as a walk so armed, a journey of ever striving to meet the King.
I HIGHLY recommend this book--it will greatly enrich the way you envision your daily walk with and toward God.
This powerful allegory has been compared to Pilgrim's Progress and is often given equal worth and power.
I heartily agree.Join a young knight, Sir Constant, on his journey to the eternal kingdom, known as the City Splendid.
Sir Constant makes mistakes as well as wins mighty battles for his King.
His perilous adventures will keep you on the edge of your seat and inspire you in your own race towards the Kingdom!Cule's style of writing exceedingly beautiful.
A must-read for any weary pilgrim in search of his King and the wonderful eternal City Splendid!
Wow - what a book! It is a lot like Pilgrim's Progress. It follows the journey of Sir Constant as he travels through the challenges of the Christian journey. The writing is wonderful and readable, though old style; when Sir Constant met Christ several times throughout his journey my heart beat faster. All I could do was smile. Some of the challenges and things he faces are so real. All I can say is - read it!
We listened to this in the car. This is the second Lamplighters Theatre production we have listened to. Though we enjoyed it, I thought it was intense. My son is 10 and was fine, but even I looked at him a couple times during more dramatic and intense parts to make sure he wasn't scared. I thought this was similar to Pilgrim's Progress.
A beautiful book: doesn't seem to matter that it was written a century ago or that I first read it and was gripped by it over half a century ago when I was 9. The Vision of the Face is still as precious, the Way as Splendid as back then. And the stages of the Way are certainly easier to identify with. So glad I managed to find a copy!
I actually didn't read this. I listened to the dramatized edition put out by the Lamplighter Theatre.
This is one of the best Lamplighter Theatre productions yet!
