https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26200563-hamilton
I won't be in the room where it happens, but at least I'll still be satisfied.
This shows the amount of hard work and determination and pure unadulterated stubbornness that went into this musical.
Lin continues to inspire me daily and this book just gave me even more insight on his thought process.
My love for this musical knows no bounds, but i didn't think that reading the lyrics and annotations of songs that I listen over 100 times would affect me but yes they still had me in tears.
I love the numerous passages we get on the wonderful actors and the overall set up from something that was a thought in Lin's head to performing at Public theater and now at Richard Rodgers on Broadway.
I'm really emotional don't toUCH ME.This book is phenomenal and hearing more about how Hamilton came to be has made me love it even more. I NEEDED TO SEE IT BEFORE BUT I DEFINITELY NEED TO SEE IT NOW.If you love Hamilton you should definitely read this, but even if you don't love Hamilton you will have a new appreciation for it after reading this book.BUT WARNING THERE ARE A LOT OF EMOTIONS I CRIED A FEW TIMES okay maybe I mostly cried reading annotations on the songs that are sad because emotions but STILL.
I felt the layout could have been better, because I found myself always itching to put the book down or skip the lengthy explanations of inconsequential details that occurred in between the pages I actually wanted to read.
Particularly, the meaning of Wait For It became alarmingly clear, and I actually had to put the book down in order to sit down and contemplate the absolute brilliance of burr's "wait for it" in contrast to hamilton's writing like he runs out of time.
Hamilton: The Revolution Lin-Manuel Miranda- composer/lyricist/rapper & creator of Hamilton: The Revolution*********************************************“Every other founding father gets old, every other gets to grow old. But when you’re gone, who remembers your name? Who keeps your flame? Who tells your story”.From the song "Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story"*********************************************Important note: My review covers both the audiobook and hardcover versions of this
So my whole family has fallen in love with all things Hamilton these days: Cesar my oldest (20), is deeply engaged reading Ron Chernow's Alexander Hamilton, the acclaimed biography that inspired the musical; Christian, the youngest (13) has the musical soundtrack in a permanent loop on his smartphone, this year we put up our Christmas tree while listening to the newly released "Hamilton: The Mixtape".
Hamilton: The Revolution is a collaboration between Lin-Manuel Miranda and theater critic Jeremy McCarter, it chronicles the distinctive creative journey that brought the story of the founding father from history lesson to theater musical.
I still get a little sad about the fact that I was never able to see it, especially with its original cast (Chris Jackson's always going to be Benny to me).And so in the early months of 2015, I heard that Lin-Manuel Miranda had a new show and, knowing nothing about it other than the title and the fact that it was getting good reviews, I knew it was something to pay attention to.
Paul is going to get us tickets!!!!Excited!
......musical theater with a rap!
I listened to the audiobook- a $1.99 special.
It was interesting, engaging, educational and funny at times, but I wanted the physical book in front of me.
The Audiobook alone isn't enough.
Tickets to the show would nice!!!
:) I drifted at times while listening to the audiobook....but not a lot.
Having a theater background experience through watching our daughter grow up in equity theatre..
I'd say the physical book would be the better investment - more than the audiobook--( or both to compliment each other).
This is honestly a work of art. It is on the same level as the musical itself. Reading Lin's thoughts and footnotes throughout the songs was a gift in itself. The whole book is a piece of art — literally, it's beautiful. I highly recommend this for any Hamilton fans because wow.
DAMN SON. THIS WAS SO GOOOOOOOOD.
Hamilton, the consummate wordsmith, would doubtless have words for this.I have none.
There was an energy in this son of Puerto Rican-born parents singing a rap/hymn/ode to Alexander Hamilton that was both new and old.Anyway, fast forward a couple years.
Fast forward a couple more years and the musical came out.
Bought my daughter the Chernow book, the CDs. She wants a Twitter account just so she can follow #ham4ham and @lin_miranda.
Each of these chapters gives a little bit more insight into the development of the Musical from one song played at the White House, to a Mix Tape of songs, to the Public Theatre, to the Richard Rogers Theatre.
Buy/Borrow/Download - Hamilton the Musical and listen to it.
Buy Chernow's book and read it cover to cover.4.
How am I supposed to write a review for Hamilton: The Revolution, if all I want to do is hug it to my chest and never let go? (rtc)* “Can I be real a second?For just a millisecond?Let down my guard and tell the people how I feel a second?” I am very tempted to give this book five stars in advance, because I have so much love in my (view spoiler)[tender Hamiltrash (hide spoiler)] heart for Lin-Manuel Miranda and his masterwork Hamilton that I might just burst into tears, or spontaneously combust
How am I supposed to write a review for Hamilton: The Revolution, if all I want to do is hug it to my chest and never let go?
(rtc)*
“Can I be real a second?For just a millisecond?Let down my guard and tell the people how I feel a second?”
I am very tempted to give this book five stars in advance, because I have so much love in my (view spoiler)[tender Hamiltrash (hide spoiler)] heart for Lin-Manuel Miranda and his masterwork Hamilton that I might just burst into tears, or spontaneously combust (whichever happens first, you know), while reading this book.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
HAVE YOU READ THIS???
❝Inevitable in retrospect but unprecedented and all but I M P O S S I B L E to imagine at the time.❞Such a beautiful and inspiring book. I want to read it over and over on the off chance that even the tiniest fraction of positivity, determination and creativity might rub of on me.
I was also intensely happy that it contained more in depth information than what we usually hear in the interviews - as these kind of books often just end up repeating and summing up everything you hear in the interviews.Also, while it says that there's only 280 pages, this book is massive, plus while you're looking over the lyrics you may actually want to turn on the music as well and listen while you read, as Lin often comments on the musical choices as well, and why there are certain melodies and instruments and sounds involved.Hamilton really is a Revolution, maybe musical, maybe cultural as well.
I hereby award this book ten million stars and a book hangover.
Part of that is that I was reading it for the Booktubeathon "read a book after dark" challenge, but a big part of it is that I basically ended up reading the songs in real time, as I sang them in my head.
I adored Lin's comments and insights on the songs, but I think I actually ended up enjoying Jeremy McCarter's essays more than Lin's notes.
I cried through basically the last 40 pages of the book, pretty much from the reprise of Stay Alive onwards.
And I NEVER get book hangovers.
I'm not a musical type of person, I've never seen one in my life.
I've been hearing about Hamilton everywhere, how great it was how no one could get tickets.
I thought that if I lived in New York I would probably go see it.
Then a few months later I was on Youtube and I came across James Corden's carpool karaoke with LMM.
And thought the song was pretty catchy so I checked out the soundtrack and I suddenly  I’mHelpless!
This book is just as phenomenal, I cried multiple times reading it.Do yourself a favor and get on the Hamilton bandwagon.
Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story..?
When I first heard about this play--that it took one of our founding fathers (one that had had such a HUGE impact on our young nation but that no one spoke much about) and turned the events of his life into a rap musical I just KNEW that this was going to be something that I was going to love.
listening to "It's Quiet Uptown" and "Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story." I just think this play is SO ENTIRELY IMPORTANT because it shows the rise of our nation, but it also shows how we struggled in the beginning.
There have been discussions about the need for more POC within theatre, the unattainability for a lot of POC to see theatre because of the expenses, the place POC have had within our culture and our history, and the place rap/hip hop have had within music and culture.
Being able to read Lin's thought process was fascinating, and because I don't know a lot about rap/hip hop/r&b, reading about how much music influenced Lin's process was SO interesting.
I was already a huge Hamilton fan before reading this book, but I appreciate the show even more now.
If you're a fan of Hamilton, of anyone in the show, or of theatre, definitely read this book.
It makes you feel like an insider, which is exactly what fans like me who aren't going to get within a thousand miles of New York City are clamoring for.
You want to feel like Hamilton is your musical, too, even though you're limited to blasting the cast album and binging on #Ham4Ham videos on YouTube.I also loved learning the inspiration behind each song.
Listening to them after reading the book was like a brand-new experience.
I had no idea the show was so full of Easter eggs for both hip-hop and musical theater fans.
This is perfection. I loved getting behind the scenes things, staged photos, and most of all Lin's annotations and photos of his journals.
I just thought I'd let myself be surprised by the rest, whatever it was.
I did not expect this to be as emotional as it was.
Actually, I didn't expect it to be emotional at all.
I should've known better honestly, since the songs by themselves already most unexpectedly transformed me into an absolute cry baby, but, you know, who expects a book of nonfiction like that to be super emotional?
Well, ok, I'm definitely no pro when it comes to nonfiction, so maybe I've simply been clueless from the beginning, but yeah, consider me surprised by what I've gotten from this reading experience.
If I can't be in the room where it happens, I need you to tell me exactly what happened in that room in excruciating detail, or I will never be satisfied (noooooot even sorry).(It is very disheartening to discover that you are more of a Burr than a Hamilton, by the way.)Granted, I'm the sort of person who loves talking and reading about the process of creating art, and why certain words were chosen, and rhyme schemes, etcetera, so I'm always going to want as much of that as possible.
I had tears in my eyes as I read this.This book, like the musical itself, is a work of art.
It's given me a new perspective on my favorite musical of all time, and definitely enriched my experience.
It is 111% worth it to read for Hamilfans, you will walk away with a deeper understanding of this life-changing musical.
The story of how the musical came to be was so well done.
Hamilton: The Musical shattered me, and Hamilton: The Revolution moved me to pieces.
Now I have to actually see the musical and my experience will be complete.
As long as there are people like Miranda out there with the passion to tell stories in this unique and marvelous way it'll keep on keeping on.But I digress.You don't have to have seen the musical to enjoy this lovely book.
You get to read wonderful stories about how certain songs came to be (the most moving is Miranda's conception of "It's Quiet Uptown" the song that deals with the death of Hamilton's son which came on the heel's of the suicide of the Public Theater director's only son) and how the cast feels about being part of a literal musical revolution.
If you like Hamilton but aren't in love with it, or if you're interested in the creative processes behind this musical in particular or musicals in general, this is still a must read, but maybe try before you buy.You get the complete lyrics, including the one scene not on the album.
I'm deeply in love with Hamilton, of course, but I'm also a long-time musical fan, and the behind the scenes information would have been interesting to me for just about any show.
It's designed to look like an old book, which makes a certain amount of sense.
Most importantly, the pictures all look great.
She knows the words to all the songs, devours anything that Lin-Manuel touches, has read Alex and Eliza, and this book, both in audio and hardcover format.Hamilton is playing in San Francisco, but I told her that we'd have to wait five years or so until it becomes more affordable.
But they have that fantastic Ham4Ham promotion (Hamilton for a Hamilton [$10]), Lin's genius lottery that makes theater accessible to the people.
I could barely stand to wait the five hours until the end of the school day to tell her the good news.The show was fantastic.
I just devoured this in one sitting! The liner notes and stories about how the show came together we're all fascinating to me, as I've been a rabid fan for the last year. This book had a few stories that felt dense or like they just existed to take up space, and some of the actual writing (of the background stories, not lyrics) felt simplistic. Thats why I'm not giving this 5 stars.'Hamilton' itself gets 5 stars from me every time, and I am very happy I read this! Fascinating insight into the story and tons of BTS info!
If you are like me, you have not yet been lucky enough to see Hamilton on Broadway, but you have listened to the hell out of the cast recording. (WORK!) Or maybe you have already been lucky enough to breathe the same air as the cast. Either way, this book is an in-depth look at the musical for all fans, and includes photos and the entire libretto, complete with footnotes from Miranda. How lucky we are to be alive right now!Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/category/all-the-...
