https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26053.Public_Secrets
It's one of NR's "time progression" stories (like Honest Illusions, River's End and Blue Smoke) where the book starts out when Emma is almost 3 years old, living with her neglectful, abusive mother and then rescued by her rising-star father, Brian McAvoy, lead singer for the band Devastation.
A lot of the book deals with how Emma's life is affected by being the daughter of a hugely popular rock band - the things she saw, the isolation, the media, the excesses.
There is nothing wrong with re-read!The best part about this story is that it is not, in my opinion, a typical Nora Roberts novel.
It is a break from the formula, but it definitely works.If my daughter were to come to me, in future years, and ask me which one Nora Roberts book should she read, I would almost have to say Public Secrets.
As a mother and a female, there are some very strong moral messages delivered in such a way that it is palatable to the reader.
Wow, this is...
intense.
I want to say it reminds me of Coming Home, a little bit, because they've both got this - atmosphere, I guess - that conveys such a sense of reality.
As if the story is already known and is simply being transcribed.
Not the sort of work where you think about plot and pacing, just about the inexorable march of time.
The almost inevitability of the ending, something hard-won after years of work put into making it from day to day.
The courage of everyday living.I wish there'd been more of Emma and Michael, but this isn't that type of story.
This isn't shiny escapism.
4,5Nora Roberts não desiludeNeste livro acompanhamos a vida de Emma desde os três anos e vamos acompanhando as histórias de todos as seu redor.Só não dou 5 porque achei que no fim o relacionamento de Emma e de ..... (Não quero fazer spoiler) Devia ter sido diferente... Ele merecia mais!!
Un secreto a voces, también conocido como Alegrías y desgracias en la vida de Emma McAvoyDefinitivamente, este es un libro de la época en la que Nora no sabía resumir.
No entiendo porqué tuvo que ser tan minuciosa para describir toda la infancia, adolescencia de Emma.
Para las 500 ya están juntos y en la 550 ya no tienen mucho más qué hacer porque son "estables".Para ser un libro tan largo, difícilmente conecté con algún personaje.
Y lo peor, es que esas cosas pasan en las páginas 300, 400, 500.
I am torn between 3.5 and 4 STARS...UGH. I've waited a week and still can't decide how I truly feel.I've read quite a few NR books, and this is hands down the most intense. It spans multiple years and addresses some dark storylines. Even though Emma is the MC, I felt she was too often overshadowed by Brian. Also, due to the large time span, it felt like key events were not sufficiently covered. Despite that, it was an engaging read, and I could't put it down.
A escritora levou-me a criar genuína afeição por Emma, uma ligação fortificada pelo sofrimento da personagem.Ao mesmo tempo, Roberts conseguiu que todas as personagens tivessem o seu espaço na narrativa, mas sem que o livro se torne confuso ou aborrecido.
Estes personagens não existem apenas para coadjuvar a protagonista, têm as suas próprias histórias e objectivos, o que as torna realistas e uma mais-valia para o livro.Gostei tanto do desenvolvimento da relação romântica entre Emma e Michael (que vai sento lentamente construído e consolidado.
2'5-3Este libro es el que más pesado y más me ha costado leer de Norita, incluso lo tuve aparcado un par de meses porque me daba pereza reanudar la lectura. Yo creo que cerca del 40-50% del libro fue lo peor de todo estaba taaaan explicado y desarrollado al más mínimo detalle (algo que en este caso me pareció excesivo) que leía y leía y veía que no avanzaba prácticamente nada la trama.
A saga unfolds...There were times I hated this book.
Not the story, but the characters and their actions.
It made me a lot uncomfortable and queasy.
Everyone was so selfishness and the one redeemable character became a weak reflection.Talk about a soap opera, this book most certainly was.
So despite all of the hate, I can’t give the book less than it deserves because I couldn’t stop reading.
Part of me thinks I might have read this one before as well.
But I can’t remember.
Sice jsem dvě nejdůležitější věci odhadla hned v počátcích, ale celkový požitek mi to rozhodně nezkazilo. Věděla jsem, že to bude pecka hned po prvních pár stránkách a jsem ráda, že jsem se nemýlila.https://kniznidenicek.blogspot.cz/201...
I just finished rereading the story after a good 7 or 8 year break and I am so happy to say that it's still as compelling, intriguing, and delightful as it was the first time I read it.
You grow up with Emma and at the same time you grow with her family.
Nora tackles some heavy topics in this book too - sex, drugs, rape, AIDS, abuse, addiction, love, despair - and she does it with aplomb, grace, wit, and honesty.
I feel that out of the entire Nora Robert's collection this book blows the other stand alone mystery/romance stories out of the water.
It's hard to capsulize this book into a one-paragraph summary as it chronicles the lives of this family over a 20-year time span.
There are a hosts of secondary characters that make this story so rich, including Emma's love interests and the other members of Brian's band, who are included as family.
Unlike many stories that cover such a wide range of events, this book is well paced and there are no lulls.
Roberts takes her time to get it right without being overly descriptive but also not omitting those details that help you capture the mood and tone of the characters, time and events.
I have really mixed feelings about this book.
Instead it is a story more into woman's fiction genre or even a very well-written biography of a non-existing person, Emma.
Really, Emma's life is written with so many details and insights that I could almost believe she is actually a living person and not just the product of Mrs Roberts' imagination.And here is also a problem.
First, I was waiting for the suspense plot and what I got was a very, very detailed biography of Emma.
Eighty percent of the book is about Emma's life from her early childhood to her relationship with Michael.
Dat zou ik zelf ook doen mocht dit mijn allereerste Nora Roberts-boek zijn.
Er zit zeker enige mate van spanning – of eerder mysterie – door dit verhaal heen verweven maar … het vormt zeker niet de belangrijkste factor.Eén van de zaken die er voor zorgen dat ik de boeken van deze schrijfster zo graag lees is de manier waarop en de mate waarin ze haar personages uitwerkt.
Binnen de kortste keren leef je met hen mee en stoort het je zelfs niet wanneer je opnieuw vrij snel doorhebt hoe de ontknoping aan het einde er zal uitzien.Ik hou van haar personages.
Quando comecei hoje a ler, faltavam 265 páginas para terminar e tencionava dividir a leitura por 3 dias mas estava a gostar tanto, mas tanto que tirei a tarde para o despachar.
Afinal, este livro tem elementos que me fazem desprezar uma leitura, como seja passar-se há umas décadas atrás, a ação estender-se por diversos anos, não é apenas um romance de amor + um mistério como é mais usual em NR mas sim a vida de Emma durante 20 anos.
Confesso que apenas passei uma rápida vista de olhos por diversas páginas relacionadas com o casamento de Emma referido na sinopse.Já Michael é outra história; as cenas dele li-as todas!
tuve mis dudas sobre este libro cuando comencé a leerlo y descubrí que nos narraba la historia desde que la protagonista, Emma, era una niñita.
No sé quién tuvo la idea de hacer esa sinopsis pero QUÉ MAL que te cuenten cosas vitales de la trama ya desde ahí, sobre todo cuando muchas de esas cosas no suceden sino hasta ya muy avanzado el libro.
Lo que me ha gustado, dejando fuera la relación de estos dos, es que llega a conocer a la protagonista, que pareciera ser una novela donde la importante es mostrarte que ella ha tenido una vida con mucha infelicidad y maltrato, aún con todo el dinero de su padre y del amor que él le tiene, tampoco puede dedicarle tanto tiempo a ella.
Very emotional book from start to finish but I loved every minute of it and think this is probably one of the best NR book I have read.
Pelos olhos de Emma, vamos conhecer um casal gay, que junto com ela, proporcionou um dos momentos mais ternos do livro; vamos sofrer com a violência a que ela vai ser submetida, numa altura em que, certamente, a violência doméstica ainda não era divulgada e criminalizada como agora; vamos tentar descobrir quem são os monstros que assombram os seus pesadelos mas cujas faces insistem em não aparecer devido a todos os traumas e ao choque associado à morte do irmão; também vamos descobrir um romance terno que perdura durante anos mas que só se revela na sua idade adulta.
This novel spanned decades, and the characters grew and developed in believable ways as the plot moved forward.My main gripes with the novel are that some of the circumstances seemed somewhat contrived and unrealistic.
That's an issue enough to be broached, but instead of leaving Emma in simply an unloving union, her husband's character was reduced to that of an emotional and physical abuser.
I would have preferred it, personally, if Emma had had to make a hard choice - to leave a loveless yet not abusive relationship - because she believed that she could do better (and deserved better).
There were scenes where the person has traveled hours to ask one life-or-death question.
By contrast in the four or so pivotal scenes, we come down to split-second timing.
Finally, I found myself shouting at the heroine several times, beginning with her first rape.
When some tries to kill her for the third or fourth time, I had stopped bothering to tell her there was someone metaphorically crouching behind the door because she wasn't going to do anything to stop it.These problems could have been solved with some polishing, making this epic shine like the jewel it should be.
The characters were touching and real, not flawless and perfect but real.What I hated was being in Emma's head.
Not the writing hate, I just loved the story, but rather the existantial hate.
I don't want to think of child abuse, that's just one of the most horrible things out there.
The people who do those kinds of things should be thrown straight into prison.Loved the love story, though.
The support, the love, the passion, the deep understanding b/w Emma and Michael was inspiring.
This was not one of my favorites from Roberts, but it was well written and a good read.
Most of the reasoning for my rating has to do with pacing.
It's not that the story ever lags, but there was a section I felt lasted too many chapters.
That being said, it's more of my personal distaste for the subject matter going on in the story--brutal domestic abuse and violence against children.
So, though it may be a bit unfair, my rating is a little lower, in part, because of that.
Still, if you are a Roberts fan, you should definitely read this book.
This book is amazing! It's not a typical romance, more of a story about the girl Emma and her life which at times is quite tragic. But I just loved this book and found myself unable to put it down. I felt like I was right along with Emma experiencing and feeling all of these events and emotions with her. It's a not so glamorous side to life but I truly loved it and again, Roberts will NEVER disapoint!
Nora Roberts é uma autora que me surpreender sempre. Mesmo depois 60 e muitos livros que partilhamos juntas (ela escreve, eu leio). É verdade que os seus livros não podem ser considerados Nobel da literatura, mas todos eles têm um fio condutor, a capacidade de nos entreter durante cada minuto que dura a leitura e não será este o objectivo principal quando pegamos num livro?
This is the most wonderfull book I've ever read! The book has it all, love, happiness and sadness. It's the first book that made me have tears in my eyes, some where from happiness but there where also tears of sadness. But everything meaningful in the book and I love the happy end!!!!
Re-readDoormat heroine
From its very first pages you find yourself hooked. It is the kind of books I deeply love; the kind that induces you to forget time and surroundings and captures you in an unstoppable reading trance.
If the bookshelves categories look confusing it's because the story runs from 1967 to 1990 and while there is as much love and sex as anyone could want there is also a very ugly murder which isn't solved until the end.The novel centres around Emma McAvoy, the illegitimate daughter of Brian McAvoy who founded the rock band Devastation.
At the heart of the party Emma wakes to hear Darren crying so she goes down the hall to his room even though the hall lights are off and she is terrified by the monsters in the dark (thanks to her blood mother).
Haar jeugd wordt heel uitgebreid vertelt, waar ik op voorhand geen idee van had maar wat wel belangrijk is voor het verhaal.Ook draaide dit boek rond de levens van de andere personages, hierdoor voelde het verhaal soms wat langdradig aan.
Het maakte wel dat de personages goed uitgewerkt waren en realistisch over kwamen.Het was tof om wat meer over het leven van beroemdheden te lezen en welk effect dat heeft op hun kinderen.
Voor de rest heb ik echt weinig met dat hele rock 'n roll leven, en daardoor kon het verhaal mij op bepaalde momenten niet echt boeien.Voor mij was dit een tof boek om te lezen, maar vind 500 pagina's toch wat veel voor zo een soort boek.
3.5 stars
