https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80005.The_Discarded_Image
Here Lewis is able to tackle a huge subject: medieval cosmology and worldview, and bring both his wide reading and ability to make things understandable to the "common man" to the table.In his emminently readable way Lewis starts by setting the stage, asking his audience (this was originally a series of lectures given to non-academics) to imagine a world according to the view proposed by the ancients and medievals.
I'd consider this book a great introduction to the thoughts and beliefs that the medievals had about their universe and then I'd move on the the "Space Trilogy" to see how Lewis incorporated these ideas into a science fiction tale that at least partially takes this cosmology as true as part of its basic premise.
A must read for students of history as well as literature.
Takes the reader into the worldview of literate people of that era.
Not only what they read, but how they viewed reality.
Modern authors should review this work before presuming to write period pieces of this era.
Many of their stories involve modern characters set in the Middle Ages.
The reader is jarred by the anachronism, even though he or she may not realize why.Upon third reading: Every time I re-read The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature my opinion of it and its author rises.
C S Lewis' introduction to Medieval and Renaissance literature focuses on the medieval world view.
It's not an easy book to read since it expects a level of cultural awareness that is by no means universal nowadays.
I needed the aid of Wikipedia and the Concise Oxford Dictionary on more than one occasion.Nevertheless, I found this a very rewarding read and I was a little surprised to realise how much of my mindset is completely medieval.
This one will require multiple reads!! I loved everything I understood. I know there is so much that I missed in this initial reading.
To be sure Lewis assumes his reader is familiar with the texts he cites and is writing more for his students and colleagues than for the layman, but I certainly found much to ponder on even though my knowledge of Chaucer and Mallory, for example is pitiful and many other references meant nothing at all to me.
In the final chapter one marvels once again at the depth of Lewis' scholarship and knowledge as he skins lightly yet insightfully over the evolution of evolution in his summing up of the evolution of story-telling and its relation to "truth"
The medievals, on the other hand, were unwilling to rule out any idea unless it was successfully proven false.
Because it’s only those crazy superstitious ancients and writers of “fairy tales” who tell us they do.
With all that’s been written about faeries across all the ages, it’s a much wiser thing to say they might exist than to be punished by one for disbelief.So the medievals—-far from being superstitious kooks—-were organizers, arrangers, cataloguers, and critique-ers of the works that came before and we should not snub our noses at them simply because of chronology.
Possibly the best introduction to the thought of the Middle Ages available. The only problem with it is how infectious Lewis' enthusiasm is. I hurried off to the library to check out the "South English Legendary" on Lewis' recommendation in this book, and found it unremittingly dull. And I like Middle English literature!
I love Lewis but after reading nearly all of his books, I think I've reached the end of his catalog.
This book demonstrates Lewis' brilliance as an academic.
This book shows that had Lewis wanted to be a world-class medieval scholar (though perhaps he was anyway) he could have been.
Of all the Lewis books I've read, this one seems the most academic.
If Lewis was only a medieval historian and this was his only work I may have given it a 4.
Though, if Lewis was that then I probably would never have read it.
Though we may have "discarded" those models, Lewis thinks it worth spending time thinking about the models medievals used to explain how outer space worked, how our bodies interacted with our souls, and how our virtues were developed (among other things).
I envy their system in some ways, because we lack such a coherent theory about how humans interact with the world around us, and we certainly lack any sort of consensus on how best to educate the human mind and develop the human soul.
I can honestly say that this is one of those books whose "big idea" has informed my way of thinking about all of life in general, to a surprising degree.
Lewis sees and communicates his admiration of the way that these fragile "lenses" worked so long for so many, holding together a culture for an era.
This is one of the reasons we study history at all, and if you can find a history professor who makes it all relevant and interesting, all the better.Lewis' lived in the era of modernism.
I think Till We Have Faces is possibly his best fiction work (although of course I do love The Chronicles of Narnia!).
He communicates his huge enthusiasm for his subject matter to the reader.
I very much enjoyed it and gained much from it, but it had the feel of a text-book style of introduction – a knowledgeable, well written overview of the topic which provided just enough detail to give the reader a diagram of the structure of the assumed world model.Lewis on the other hand, while still investigating the overall structure, darts and delves into some of the complexities of the highways and byways of his topic.
His enthusiasm is catching, leaving a desire to read not only many of the authors he quotes, but also to take down and dig into his other literary writings.Wonderful book.
If you want to understand the medieval European literature and medieval Europe in general, read this book.Genuine scientific monograph!
If this book doesn't make you love Medieval studies, I don't know what will.
Contemporary mathematical descriptions of the universe present a very different sort of "explanation" than the medieval worldview did, as Lewis explains in the following passage from the Epilogue:"The nineteenth century still held the belief that by inferences from our sense-experience (improved by instruments) we could 'know' the ultimate physical reality more or less as, by maps, pictures, and travel-books, a man can 'know' a country he has not visited; and that in both cases the 'truth' would be a sort of mental replica of the thing itself.
But it has already engaged me in a way very few books have done recently, a way that already has me believing I'm going to keep returning to it until I have fully absorbed everything it has to offer.The first two chapters are entitled, 'The medieval situation'- a brief look at the mind-set of the medieval person, it's sources, and Lewis's concept of 'the model', the set of ideas accepted as the background by the medieval person; and, 'reservations'- a brief consideration of the extent of this model in terms of educational levels, what people thought of it, and some possible questions.Lewis then goes on to outline his selected materials, both from the classical period and from the seminal period.
More of a preface for people about to read medieval literature than an introduction to the major works (though Lewis alludes to plenty), The Discarded Image, describing what Lewis calls the 'medieval model', or, the basic assumptions that they took for granted which we have since dispensed with, is both an excellent reference work for the general or academic reader of medieval texts and an intriguing book in its own right.
CS Lewis was a master medievalist, and in this short book he lays out the medieval model of the world and the influences that created it. An essential companion to the literature of the Middle Ages.
Excellent. World class.
Excellent and inspiring. My list of books to read just quadrupled...
Well, I digested maybe 50% of this book. Perhaps I’ll revisit it someday. I was hoping for greater insight into Dante, and that was accomplished somewhat. I would have enjoyed this book more if I had been reading Chaucer.
This side of Lewis--the side that reflects his actual vocation--is often forgotten because he has written so many other books for "everyone." True enough, the scholarly steepness of The Discarded Image will make it too much for many Lewis lovers, and its primary rewards are reaped in the topic of Medieval literature, but by reading Lewis in his fully scholarly glory, one also gleans a deeper understanding of the beloved apologist's worldview.Lewis approaches the subject of Medieval (and, to an extent, Renaissance) literature with a belief that the key to understanding the writings of the Medievals is found in understanding first their dependence on books as sources of authority (as opposed to science, reason, imagination, etc.) and secondly their careful and comprehensive conception of the universe.
An interesting and useful book about the Middle Ages particularly if you want to go off and read primary source -- that was, in fact, its primary purpose, to give people information before they headed off to medieval works and either kept interrupting their reading to research what something meant, or misread it in blissful ignorance.It discusses some currently obscure writers who were major influences.It covers the structure of the universe and how it differs from the modern model; size is considerably less important than you might think, as, for one thing, medievals thought that the earth was the size of a mathematical point and you can't get any smaller than that, relatively.
This apparently little known, last book of Lewis' is, at first glance, misleading with its dull-sounding subtitle "An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature." We are probably expecting a detailed break-down of the great works of literature in those days.
With his characteristically engaging wit coupled with years' worth of study and devotion to the subject, Lewis presents the Model of the universe as composed and seen by medieval scholars.
There was not a crevice left in the life of the universe but they filled it full of meaning.
One had one's place, however modest, in a great succession; one need be neither proud nor lonely."
(Literally hundreds of PhDs have built their careers on ideas Lewis would have left to a footnote.)Assembled from a series of Lewis's highly polished Oxford lectures, THE DISCARDED IMAGE presents a dazzling view of the way (educated) people in the medieval and early modern periods thought about the universe, the world, and everything in it--i.e., their "models" for understanding reality.
After finishing this book, you will view all early Western works of art, from Renaissance painting to Shakespeare's plays, in a very different way, less encumbered by the distortions of 20th Century "models" that we bring to our own experiences.
You probably know that CS Lewis was a professor of literature at Oxford, not just the guy who wrote the Narnia books.
To my surprise and delight, the book turns out to be not only about literature, but about how medieval writers were influenced by the ancient world, and how that influenced their understanding of the world.Lewis writes that every era has its own Model for understanding the universe, and argues that although our modern conception is that our Model is right and previous models were flat wrong, that’s not the whole story.
Probably Lewis's least read work.
In my opinion it is his most important book.Generally, fans of Lewis admire his apologetics or his fiction but can't approach his genius with either.
But what these people don't seem to understand is Lewis was not a modern man, and they are.
But his erstwhile devotees can't accept that it is his medieval mind that made him so fresh and poignant for modern readers.This book introduces you to medieval cosmology.
If you want to understand why everything Lewis wrote is actually an apology not just for generic Christianity, but for a medieval Christianity, read this book.
To me, this might be C.S. Lewis' best book.
I will have to cop to not really liking the NARNIA books (too allegorical, and those British schoolchildren are pretty annoying), and while I do quite like his SPACE TRILOGY, I think that Lewis was much better as a writer of academic non-fiction than he was as a fiction writer.
In The Discarded Image, Lewis is able to tackle a huge subject: medieval cosmology and worldview, and bring both his wide reading and ability to make things understandable to the "common man" to the table.In his eminently readable way Lewis starts by setting the stage, asking his audience (this was originally a series of lectures given to non-academics) to imagine a world according to the view ...
Medieval literature sounded pretty boring, but Planet Narnia inspired me to give it a try.
After all, he was not actually a theologian or philosopher, he was a professor of Classics and Medieval Literature.
This book gives a glimpse of what it might have been like to take one of his classes.
He gives a fascinating explanation of the Medieval Model of the universe.
Often you hear it said that pre-Enlightenment man regarded Earth (and Man) as the center of the universe, but actually the Earth was at the lowest level of a grand hierarchy.
5 Takeaways1. The medievals were bookish, not superstitious.2. The medievals were syncretic and attempted to find harmony between, say, classical and Christian sources rather than emphasizing differences.3. The medievals knew what they knew: what was supportable and what was not.4. The medievals saw earth, not as the center of the universe, but sort of as the bottom of the universal drain. No false pride here.5. This image of the world is beautiful and when seen together with Dante's Commedia and Aquinas's Summa Theologica represents a pretty amazing artistic and philosophical accomplishment.
This is an amazing book that provides a deep insight into the medieval world model. The people living in that age saw the world and their place within the world with different eyes and I found it very interesting to understand the foundations of their thinking. C.S. Lewis gives many examples and references that are easy to follow. It's a rather short book but without it one will never be able to really appreciate books like the Canterbury Tales or the Divine Comedy. Highly recommended.
