https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1980942.The_Cat_and_the_Devil
сама історія – таке нічого особливого, якого, мабуть, і пристало чекати від розказаної в листі казочки.а от ілюстрації річарда ердоша (сподіваюся, я його правильно транслітерую) – пречудові. особливо диявол, одна ратичка якого взута в пулен, а інша боса. і ще ціла компанія червоних аццьких котиків, про яких у тексті, на жаль, ані слова.
This charming little fable was written by James Joyce in a letter to his grandson. Extraordinary storytelling!
Ulysses, nix. Finnegan's Wake, nyet.The Cat and the Devil? You bet!
Kopenhag Kedileri gibi bu kitap da Joyce'un torununa yazdığı bir mektup aslında. Bir köprü yapım işini masallaştırarak anlatmış Joyce torununa.
I visited the James Joyce Center in Dublin and they had a room with a long table with his books. This was the only one I could actually finish in 10 minutes :)It's a very cute story and I liked it even more because it featured devils, cats and mischief.
A história podia estar mais trabalhada, mas como se avisa, foi uma história escrita de um avô para o neto, sem ter como destino a publicação per se.De qualquer maneira, as ilustrações são soberbas.
Originally a letter from Joyce to his grandson, this very short children's story is based on an old French folk tale. There are some some fantastic illustrations from various publications. Most notably the French cartoonist Roger Blachon, and Gerald Rose who cast Joyce in the role of the devil.
Some popular answers on "Who is the greatest writer of the 20th century?" are: Proust, Marquez, Hemingway, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Borges, W.B Yeates, Lovecraft, T.S Eliot, Bulgakov, Chekhov, Virginia Woolf, Raymond Carver, Flannery O' Connor, Calvino, Hesse, Thomas Mann, Günter Grass, Musil, Kafka, Nabokov, Somerset, Steinbeck, Juan Rulfo and so on.... but ask your self this "How many of them wrote books about cats?" Well, only very few did and are in the same league as James Joyce.
Joyce likes to tell stories about cats and devils to children. He also likes to tell extremely womanless stories.
XD) si nascondeva nei bassifondi della mia libreria, tra brutti ceffi poco raccomandabili (qualche Storica National Geographic e qualche Focus...
non ricordavo di averlo e l'ho trovato solo perché la mia libreria implorava per un po' d'ordine...
appena trovato, essendo molto breve, incuriosita, l'ho letto.
La storiella non mi è affatto piaciuta.
Suppongo sia un mio limite di interpretazione e lettura.
Di per sè, il testo, vista la sua natura, è chiaro, semplice, scorrevole, con un tocco di ironia che non guasta...
tutte buone qualità, tuttavia non sufficienti a farmi apprezzare la sostanza.
Come detto, probabilmente è un mio limite.
Dedicated to Joyce's son Stephen, this little tome is fun with credit tipped to Blachon's illustrations, which are charming and tongue-in-cheek.
The devil wears a red union suit, and the cat wears an expression that tells the reader definitively it's the smartest creature on the page.
The crowd faces have a variety of expressions, and a lone rat looks as smart as you'd expect a rat to look.
The prose is witty, and the theme of beating the devil is slick.
One star goes missing because of the line "the men held their breath, and the women held their tongues." Understood it's the decade this was written, but nonetheless.
Mais savez-vous que cette appellation féline nous vient d'un grand monsieur de la littérature irlandaise, James JOYCE, à qui il prit un jour la lubie de raconter une histoire à son petit-fils.
C'est ainsi que naquit le chat et le diable.
de la légende urbaine ou du conte pour enfants, j'aime cette histoire pour le côté bon enfant du diable, boudeur et cajoleur de minet.
Une histoire à découvrir pour les curieux de la Loire et de ses secrets, qu'ils soient véridiques ou non, il est quand même bien agréable de savoir qu'un aussi grand écrivain s'intéressât un jour à ce petit coin de France.
This one was delightful! I love that it comes from a letter that Joyce wrote to his grandson and the story is so much fun. If you can read French, that is an added bonus when the Devil gets angry. My favourite part was the P.S. I recommend this one! But, you should be sure and get this particular edition because the other editions have a fluffy white cat in the illustrations and that is stupid. The cat associated with the Devil should be the hilarious black and white cat that is shown in this edition.
Esta fábula fue escrita por James Joyce,en 1936, en una carta a su nieto Stephen Joyce. Está firmada como "Nonno" que es probablemente la forma en que Stevie llamaba a su abuelo. La fábula cuenta cómo en sólo una noche se construyó un puente sobre el río Loire en el pueblo de Beaugency, en Francia. Con un final chusco, es una historia sencilla y divertida.
Beautifully illustrated, this short story Joyce sent to his grandson is as amusing as any other page from Finnegans Wake.
A very curious book.
Странна книга със странни илюстрации (в българското издание) и още по-странно съдържание. Отнема няколко минути още в книжарницата, но приятни минути :) Не съм сигурна, че разбрах поуката, но ми стана жал за котката.
É um livro em formato grande, em capa dura, em edição muito bem cuidada, marca da Cosac Naify, uma importante editora que revolucionou o mercado editorial brasileiro.
Integra a excelente Coleção "Dedinho de Prosa", da Cosac Naify, de livros com textos integrais e completamente ilustrados, perfeita para apresentar a leitores jovens alguns grandes nomes da literatura brasileira e mundial.
Conto de Escola,de Machado de Assis, ilustrado por Nelson Cruz *** R
2. O homem que sabia javanês,de Lima Barreto, ilustrado por Odilon Moraes *** R
Henry, ilustrado por Odilon Moraes *** R
6. Será o Benedito!,de Mario de Andrade, ilustrado por Odilon Moraes *** R
کاری از نشر پژواک کیوان که برای اولین بار در سال 1386 انتشار یافت با ترجمۀ هرمز ریاحی و ناتالینا ایو
How cuuuute. I love cats.
A book for the parents to enjoy as much as the children, this is a classic French country tale as retold by James Joyce in a letter to his grandson.
The narrative voice is beautifully sardonic and witty, and while children will enjoy the story itself and the slapstick humour, parents will fall in love with the charming, pyjama-clad Satan who lapses into "bad French" when he’s angry.
The end flyleaf includes a letter from Stephen Joyce, explaining how the story came to him and expressing the hope that “When you are older, you will remember your friend James Joyce who told you this story and pick up and read some of the other books he wrote”.
I am currently reading this lesser known bood for my Grandson. Joyce is well know for being difficult to read and this is pleasant as the book,was written for HIS grandson, but with some Joycean japes.it would not be Joyce without a good joke and in the book the Devil speaks French with a very strong Dublin accent. And so it is totally amusing !!' Very fun and unusual!!
My #1 most favorite book
Yeah that was awesome.
review to come
Milý příběh, největší kouzlo spočívá v jeho původu. O kočkách a Kodani 0 bodů, tady dávám 3 + 1 mini za ilustrace od Tadeáše Kotrby.
