https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864777.Full_Circle
رمانی از دانیل استیل که به مسئله ازدواج کردن یا مجرد ماندن میپردازد. قهرمان داستان، تانا رابرتس، دختری سرسخت و مقاوم است که در نوجوانی حوادث تلخی را تجربه کرده و قصد طغیان در برابر غرایز بشری و قوانین طبیعی را دارد و تنها خواستهاش رسیدن به اهداف و جاهطلبیهایش میباشد. اما آیا فقط نیمی از دایره برای دستیابی به زندگی مطلوب کفایت میکند؟
رمانی از دانیل استیل که به مسئله ازدواج کردن یا مجرد ماندن می‌پردازد. قهرمان داستان، تانا رابرتس، دختری سرسخت و مقاوم است که در نوجوانی حوادث تلخی را تجربه کرده و قصد طغیان در برابر غرایز بشری و قوانین طبیعی را دارد و تنها خواسته‌اش رسیدن به اهداف و جاه‌طلبی‌هایش می‌باشد. اما آیا فقط نیمی از دایره برای دستیابی به زندگی مطلوب کفایت می‌کند؟
Lovely story! enjoyable,lighthearted with some very interesting characters whom i think readers will like..well written (paperback!)
On a lark, I tried to remember all of the DS books i read during the summer between 5th and 6th grade.
Words like: impale, throbbing, nubile, writhing, love mound, lapping, stroke, volcano gush, engorged, and sweet nectar swiftly brought my otherwise wandering attention back to the task at hand: sex ed 1985 edition.Most of what I know about sex, love, and relationships, I learned that summer.
Also explained perhaps is the origin of my impression that words are sexier than deeds......Should have stuck with Little House on the Prairie, I guess.
::this is my first of danielle steele's, and i must say, i still love it till now..i practically laugh and cry with it..i really love the part when Harry is dying and asked Tana to give marriage life a try.. when i read it, it's like watching a movie, how the plots being concocted together...aaaahh..i just plain love it !!::
Full Circle, Danielle Steelعنوان: دایره کامل؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: مریم بیات؛ تهران، البرز، 1372، در 410 ص، شابک: 9644420748؛
Lovely read! enjoyable,light hearted with interesting characters whom i think readers will like..well written (paperback!)
Most of the Danielle Steel books I've read, not that there's a lot, have a few things in common.
This, let me remind you again, is limited only to a few of the author's works I was able to read.
Also, the heroine will have multiple relationships, not all at once though, and Steel has a fantastic timings in her works where men, mostly very much older and well-off, walk into the heroine's life right in between moments of a death and/or of falling out.
I am formally retiring Danielle Steel from my shelves.
I have a secret fondness for Danielle Steel novels dating back to the first one someone dropped on me at school, when her mother was about to throw out some books.
I still don't know what prompted that overture of friendship and it never really went anywhere but I collected a bunch of these growing up and then left them behind as I went on to university.
I picked this copy up in a charity shop a couple of weeks ago on a whim and it is just as satisfying as it was.
Really enjoyed this, years ago, when I read it.
This was a good book, but I had some major issues with it. The book started out focused on Jean and then moved to Tana but I wish it had more of the mother in it. Billy should have also been punished or revenged somehow for the rape. Harry never should have died - Full Circle means she & him should have gotten together somehow. She also should have stayed in touch with Sharon Blake's parents or maybe had Sharon's son come looking for Tana. Good book through & good time frame.
I loved this story! I loved how strong and brave Steel always makes her characters. It's definitely one to read over again.
One of the best books I have ever read. I recommend it to everyone :D
When I was reading Danielle Steele, I loved her books.I was obsessed with her books. Not I can't even pick up one of her books.
I really liked it. The main character really did come full circle. Tana endured so much, yet she overcame it all and things turned out better than she could have imagined. Some of the relationship experiences she went through mirrored some in my own life, so it was nice being a reader of it instead of being the person it happened to, even if it's for a while....Just goes to show that life does not care how much we plan; it can be so unpredictable. So we just need to roll with the punches and hope for the best.
My second to last prompt on the Pop Sugar reading challenge is a book that was a bestseller the year that I graduated from high school.
This was the only book available immediately.
It was better than I expected, but I have many problems with it.
I hesitated to add it to Good Reads.
The central character is great, but I have an extremely hard time assuming that her career path was so easy.
There is no way that a female attorney would have attained so many impressive positions in the early seventies.
It made no sense that she did not experience road blocks and sexual harassment.
Well what can I say about this story. It seems alright I think I find it upsetting in some scene and what the main character wants and what she don’t want. Heartbreaking and romantic.But I will read this again.
The very first book I read of hers... Beautiful story....
One of her best
Reseña de LA RUEDA DEL DESEOLa rueda del deseo es una novela de género romántico escrita por Danielle Steel en 1984.
Se resumen todas las etapas de su vida, sus sentimientos y deseos, sus amores y sus miedos, pero también sus alegrías y sus buenos momentos de la mano de sus estudios y su profesión.ASPECTOS POSITIVOS: es un fascinante mosaico de lugares y personajes, como bien dice la sinopsis.
Si vas a leer novelas de Danielle Steel, te recomendaría esta sin duda.
Las más antiguas son las mejores, no es una autora que vaya mejorando con el tiempo, al contrario.PUNTUACIÓN: 9,4/10.
Couldn't wait for each new Danielle Steel book.
Tana Roberts was born to her mother Jean after her father was killed in the war.Her mother got a job
This book deals with a lot of issues that I haven't read much about but equality is definitely what I would say this book is primarily about.
This wasn't my favorite Danielle Steel novel by a long shot, but it definitely wasn't at the bottom either, this book was a good yet not great read; worth your time, but not worth running to the store to pick up a copy either.
My first ever Danielle Steel!
I've avoided reading her for so long, being an ardent rebel against the chick-lit genre, but I finally succumbed and gave her a go.
It wasn't as bad an experience as I had imagined, to be honest, and that surprised me.
She's actually not a bad writer technically, and her characters stand for themselves in a realistic way, I suppose.
It started out fine and built up quite well, but the ending was mediocre and anticlimactic.
I felt there were so many more interesting routes she could have taken with this and the ending just seemed lacklustre and cliched.As far as my future with Danielle Steel, hmmm...
Tana Roberts comes of age during the turbulent times of the '60s.
A thoroughly modern young woman, Tana desires everything that life has to offer.
Most of all, she wants a career and is willing to sacrifice anything to get it.
It's not until much later in her life that Tana discovers she can have it all - love, career and peace of mind as life for her comes full circle.I did enjoy this book but like many of Danielle Steel's books that I've read lately, I found that the story line was a little far-fetched at times.
I give this story a B+!
If you didn't see the 1990s TV movie, or if you want to revisit the magic in the present version, you'll enjoy Danielle Steel's Full Circle, another compelling historical romance.
During this troubling decade, she came to age and yearned for a career of her own for this modern young woman.
She's willing to sacrifice everything in order to get it.
Later, she would learn she could have it all---a career, love, and peace of mind--in order to come full circle.
A great coming of age romance about love and life and family.
This is a very interesting book where a young lady gets raped in her mother's boss house by her boss's son who was never brought to justice. She came full circle in the things that she wanted and the things that she did not want. She did not want to get married and she did not want kids but when she met the right man her attitude changed for the better. She married Russ and wind up having two children besides being a Judge on the Supreme Court. This book had me riveted to where I never stopped reading it.
i don't know what made me write a review for this book now years after i read the novel but here it 
Vowing to never have a relationship with a man like her mother, Tana was careful with her heart. As time went by, Tana experienced such heart wrenching pain to further support the cause not to commit to a man fully or get pregnant. She channeled all her energy in advancing her career succeeding beyond her dreams instead. It took her acceptance to enjoy life and when the right man and the right time came along, her life flourished with abundant joy. For me, the book had a constant flow which seemed a bit slow possibly to build up the story.
Another "of the multitude of Danielle Steel books I read again and again as a teenager" stories. This book follows the life of a girl who lost her father before she was born and spent her girlhood in the shadows of her mother's boss/boyfriend and his kids. I love the friendship she finds with Sharon and then Harry when she move out on her own and the story her life in the latter portion of the 20th century.
