https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21060.Crown_Duel
Well, I loved writing this story when I was in my very early twenties, and I loved typing it up when I was in my forties . . . if I were to write it over, the Merindars would be central, not poor Mel, but hey. Time and tides.
I’m ashamed to say I’ve only read this classic of young adult fantasy now.
I loved that even though she was so gung ho, she wasn’t perfect.
(view spoiler)[I loved how Shevraeth courted her, by way of letters and gifts that firmly kept his identity unknown so she fell in love with him for his words and his personality and got to know him for who he was.
It really cemented their romance that wasn’t so prevalent in the novel and it’s so cute how they have their own misunderstandings but work through them.
More young adult males have to be like this.Fabulous!
Special edition: includes outtakes, and the edited version of Crown Duel that hereto only appeared in the e-book format.
I began to dislike the book early in the beginning, because Meliara has the same characteristics of other heroines that bother me.
Despite the fact that Meliara is constantly being reminded/reminding us that she is small and feisty, the book was hard to put down, though I don't really understand why.
Parts of it are very predictable and unlikely, but if someone is reading fantasy, they should understand that unlikely things are going to happen.
All in all, parts of it aren't as great as they could be, but I will probably read more of her books to see if they get better.
3  starsFirst of all, I just want to say that I love the cover of this book. I love her black eyed scruffiness, her frosty stare, and most of all, the impressive sword clutched in her hand. Unfortunately, all of these elements led me to believe that this would be a sort of powerful and resourceful female heroine who saves the day type of book. And, I guess it sort of is. But if you go into this expecting the strength, determination, and steel of say, Alanna, then you’ll probably be disappointed.
They are titled, but they don’t spend time at court and instead Mel is allowed to run free around their country home, wearing her servants’ cast offs and attempting to tackle her family’s financial problems in her head, because she can barely read or write.
Also, it’s always been one of my pet peeves to read about scrappy female heroines that travel on foot through the countryside for days on end, getting into fights and barely surviving, but somehow manage to do it all with six foot long hair.
I should've read this book when I was younger, I would've loved this with every once of my being.
Now that I've read more books I'm a bit more picky (but not by too much).
It seemed like Smith just wanted to skip some scenes to get to Mel's adventure.
It seems like all the books that have sequels that I've read lately have love triangles.
Smith didn't really make the romance start in this book which I thought was good; Mel isn't ready for it yet.
There is so much more I want to write but you'll just have to read the book.
So nothing is ever quite the same.Countess Meliara and her brother Bran promise their dying father that they will protect their people and the land from their tyrant of a King.
There is a war that takes place inside the politics of the palace as well.
And Meliara must learn to think quick on her feet and adapt if she is to survive.I can't say enough about this book!
Whereas many fantasy books focus on battles and action (and this book did have its fair share of battles also) the primary focus of this story was centered on the intrigue and battle of wits and power that take place within the palace itself.
I don't know why it only occurred to me on this reading that it's essentially a high-fantasy-with-war version of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, because it now seems almost absurdly obvious, but that just makes it even more wonderful in my estimation.
Sherwood Smith does great worldbuilding, lively characters moved by deep loyalties and powerful emotions (or powerful restraints, in the case of a certain drawling courtier), charming repartee, and deliciously smart, subtle, slow-burn romance -- my favorite kind.
(Besides, the same thing could be said of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, so Smith is in excellent company.)Definitely one of my favorite fantasy novels, and I can only wish I'd discovered it earlier so I could claim it as an influence.
So. I’m leaving my short write-up from 2008 at the bottom of this reread one, though it doesn’t say much about why I love the books so much, just that they were favourites for both me and my two, Becca and Cara, from the moment I got Crown Duel back in 1999.
I don’t think that Crown/Court Duel is trying to impart a moral lesson, but I do believe that its true moral strength is made more -- accessible, maybe -- because of that likeness to the classic realist novel.There’s a lot more I could say about how the many ways this book is wonderful, but this is probably far too long for comfort anyway.
The protagonist of this book drove me CRAZY. For one thing, a significant percentage of the chapters end with her fainting or otherwise falling unconscious. More importantly, she decides she doesn't like the romantic hero for no reason except so that they won't get together in the first 100 pages, but then she spontaneously trusts an anonymous person who gives her gifts and writes her letters, even though she's surrounded by hostile rivals and has no reason to believe said person isn't just gathering information on her? NO SENSE. IT MAKES NO SENSE.
Now I’ve read the e-book version available from Book View Café, with all the extra bits from Vidanric’s point of view—but more about that later.The first thing that always strikes me is the depth of this world and the constant sense that there are so many more countries out there in it, going about their business and only peripherally brushing up against Mel’s country Remalna.
If I didn’t love him before, I did at that moment.The plot is about reclaiming a kingdom, told from Mel’s perspective, but there’s also so much going on behind the scenes, as is evident in the Vidanric extras at the end of the new edition.
If you aren't already a fan, then I envy you the experience of enjoying this book for the first time (and encourage you to get right on it).Smith is a master of her craft, delivering vivid description, immersive world building, fully developed characters, and an engaging plot in a story that held me enthralled even as familiar as I am with it already.
Being the lazy coward that I am, I'll simply recommend you drop by either (or both) of their links if you want more in-depth analysis of the book and why it is so great.
*happy mode* Even if part 1 and part 2 are so different - I loved the story itself, the scenarios, the chases, even the battles, the parties and the gowns, and most of all, the rebellious and CRAZY-stubborn heroine Meliara and her extreme, blind, completely prejudiced dislike towards Vidanric, when he clearly loves her in Mr.Darcy's style: with heavenly patience and absolute subtleness.
Meliara, how could you not see it?
I almost rated this a 3 star but I decided to bump it up since I enjoyed the story even if it wasn't what I expected.
However, this was not really a fantasy story.
It was more historical adventure/romance with a random fantasy story byline that added to the story but it wasn't a central focal point.
This was about a pretty average girl coming of age and growing into an adult.
I really enjoyed the world Ms Smith created with the court and the detail she put into it but I wish she had put a little more time into her fantasy side of the storyline.
(Updated Review Jan 11, 2014)This was a lighter tale of political intrigue and danger, with a little bit of magic, and a good dash of romance.
This book, I would maybe rate 3 stars, even though it was "just ok." I must have been in the right mood to read it at the time.
I was glad when the second book, Court Duel, ended up being more a Comedy of Manners, with political maneuvering and intrigue at court and a frustrated romance.
Sometimes I really do just like the romance and so can ignore everything else.
Crown Duel is an old favorite, and I've lost count of the times I have revisited Remalna, the magical kingdom Crown Duel takes place in.
If you're looking for a book to get for a young teen who loves fantasy and you'd like it to have the kind of romance healthy relationships are based on, I highly recommend this novel.
The novel begins in a drafty room in the Tlanth castle, where Bran and Mel swear to their father that they will protect the precious Tlanth colorwoods from the grasp of Galdran Merindar, Remalna's wicked king.
If you love escapist novels where you can get lost in the fantasy countryside, look no further.
I'm actually not sure if Crown Duel is considered YA or not, but given that I heard about this on the recommendation of a YA book blogger, and it seemed to fit that mode as I read it, I'm calling it YA.
Originally published as two books, Crown Duel was republished as one book with two parts, which I think works.
I've developed this vendetta against a certain kind of "tough girl" heroine, an archetype that I think is pretty popular in YA books.
I feel this isn't a reflection on the author or the book, but rather my own personality and dislikes.
He easily defeats the ragtag peasant army Melaria leads, then uses his triumphant return to the capital to stage an effective coup.
The second half (initially the second book, entitled Court Duel) chronicles Melaria’s time in the capital, where Shevraeth has been trying to bloodlessly consolidate power and create an effective and fair system of government.
So what if every battle scene ends with Melaria fainting or getting thumped upside the head—she’s a courageous warrior!
Shevraeth is in love with Melaria, of course, and near the end of the novel Melaria begins to realize this and fall in love with him as well.
Their romance was at least as unbelievable as the earlier war scenes.
“It is a shame that so few have the time or inclination for scholarship these days. There is much entertainment to be afforded in perusing the mistakes of our forebears.”
This is a great book, a fantasy dealing out escape and battle, political maneuvering, and court etiquette underwritten by a beautiful romance of miscommunication. Crown Duel is two novella length stories (Crown Duel & Court Duel) about the same characters combined into one novel. Mel is a strong capable single minded heroine, very like Elizabeth Bennett, only with a sword at her side. Her love interest is clever, appealing, and gentle.
I loved their encounters because while it was Meliara's rather unprecedented prejudice towards him which made their encounters interesting, it also really developed them far beyond the common love story that it comes off as initially.The first half of the book closes with the end of the revolution and her return to her humble abode, with much left unsaid and unsettled between her and the Marquis.
While Vidanric may not be my favourite male character alive, I really love that he respected Meliara and the people around him which forced his hand on more than enough occassions.While the fight scenes are not as descriptive nor is it the most interesting, it is enough for what we need to know of the tale.
In which the under-educated, lacking-social-graces, and ill-informed heroine realizes that she is all of these things after becoming a heroine and then works to become better. Why doesn’t this happen in more books?
When I read this, I was in 8th grade and in bed sick and spent the entire day reading this book. It was also raining outside. I loved it! Reading it now I can definitely see the flaws but I am nostalgic.
It did not work for me for one simple reason: The first half of the book was weak.
The only characters with some depth to them were Mel and Vidanric.
The second half was much more enjoyable; yet again, the rest of the characters fell flat.I especially disliked the ending, which showed us Mel a couple of years later, yet acting exactly the same as a teenager.
No character growth what so ever.The ending also contained certain scene, retold from Vidanrics point of view.
I would have enjoyed these had I cared about the book.
I wish I had known about this book earlier, for I have a feeling it will be one that I return to again and again for that magical dose of adventure, feminism, and romance.Mel is my favorite kind of fantasy heroine: tough, resourceful, opinionated, and scared of being seen as vulnerable despite her deeply warm heart.
And then I loved reading about Mel’s struggles to make herself a gentlewoman, worthy of the respect of the court.
I admit wholeheartedly that I adored the book’s romantic subplot and, yes, will probably reread this book many times for mostly that element.
The parts of the book where Mel was hiding out from the bad King, etc were entertaining.
The thing that I didn't care for was the resolution happened off the page [that alone ruined the book in my eyes] while in Crown Duel the hill people showed up and took care of it while she clung to her guy.It seemed to me the moral was politics are important.
She attended one meeting but left without participating and felt bad about herself.But it in the end it was the hill people who resolved the conflict.
The second book retains these faults, but introduces delightful social complexity which makes Meliara's character flaws less one-note; I enjoyed the daily details of her survival in the first book, but I adored her imperfect maneuverings through social niceties and court etiquette in the second.
Crown Duel is a wildly uneven effort, raw and stumbling, but eventually transforming itself into a small delight: flawed, certainly, but lively and charming.(I didn't have the heart for the vignettes that append the e-book--do let me know if I'm overlooking something essential.)
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/Meliara and her brother promise their dying father to protect their people from the King’s growing greed, but they find themselves in over their heads both in the war they are waging and in peacetime at the court. Meliara is a very strong and independent person and Smith has a talent for writing interesting and well-rounded characters. This is an incredible story and would recommend it to everyone who likes enjoyable fantasy especially those who like Tamora Pierce’s books.
Crown Duel (Crown & Court, #1/2) - Sherwood Smith   Part I Capture the Castle, part swashbuckling fantasy. I just really enjoy stories about young people overthrowing a government, and if you can include sword fighting and horse racing, and romance, then even better. There's something very believable about Mel growing up half-wild and discovering just how much she doesn't know about everything. And remember fantasy fans: she'll always fall in love with the biggest library.I bought this.
I first fell in love with this book when I was 14 years old, taking a chance on these books and renting it from the library when the only copies they had were the separately published ones. 5 years later they are still one of the greatest, most heart-felt books I have ever read. This book touches my heart every time, and I can't express how much I love and enjoy it. I won't ever stop loving Meliara's story.Literally me dancing in my room from the happiness this book gave me and my family walking in on me.
