https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/454004.Catseye
A skill rare among today’s writers.“Look, listen and keep your thoughts to yourself—the law of survival”One can’t help but think Norton was writing about more than man’s relationship with animals formerly kept as pets when this was written.
Just read it and enjoy.)“Belt knives shift from one wearer to another without losing their edge.”No female humans appear in this story written by a woman.
Many stories written only twenty years ago sound dated.
Perhaps it’s because the people, creatures and relationships are so real.“One does not throw away a new thing merely because it is strange.”
Catseye by Andre Norton is an older story but just as good the second time around!
It brings out the need to fight for the underdog, or cat, and whoever else is downcast in this society despite species, skin, fur, or colors and to make things right for them.
An orphan is with many animal species, esp.
cat-like creatures, and traders with no good intentions.
An exciting story with an excellent plot, great dialogue, and well developed, unique characters.
A thriller, adventure, and yet fun novel of befriending animals while trying not to get caught.

I might have gotten an early start on this -- it hit my Hoopla search by chance, and it might become the January Science Fiction & Fantasy Book Club science fiction book.Good stuff -- not among Ms. Norton's greats, but a solid adventure with some good themes. I can't believe that I hadn't read this in my youth -- think I searched out every Norton book in three libraries by the time I hit my teens.
Troy Horan is a Dippleman, a refugee living in a restricted area on a planet after his own world was "appropriated" as a military base during an interstellar war.
He gets a short contract working with a luxury pet shop and finds himself slowly dragged into a murky web of plots and subterfuge in which imported Terran animals seem to play a central role.I felt that this was quite sophisticated for a children's book.
A large portion of the pleasure planet that the book happens on is a preserved wilderness, and the protagonist is from a similar area and the impression is that these are things that the author cares about and recur in Norton's work a lot.
Most people remember their 1st Norton Book--this was mine.
My mother gave me a different edition, saying I might like it.As a teenager, I didn't question the police state nature of the luxury planet of Korwar--now I'm more sensitized to how little freedom ANY of the people have.
The escape to the Wilds by Troy Horan et cie is arguably the only chance any of them have to achieve freedom--and that's iffy, at best.I should note something general about Norton--aside from Earth and the Witch World, she seemed to have difficulty apprehending the largeness and variety of planets.
Korwar is better realized than most...but I think most people would be puzzled how to create a map of the planet.
Norton's classic outsider story. Norton's early books are almost completely romance-free and sex-free - the main characters never show any sign of interest, and there's only the slightest hints that anyone ever does (usually the vaguest allusions to pleasure girls). This one, however, is also known as "the one with the gay subtext". There's no definite romance, but you can certainly see Troy/Rerne following many of the standard romance beats - the meet cute, the getting to know, the estrangement, the reconciliation.It's also a great example of constantly changing the situation up so that the reader's interest never flags.
One of my favourite Andre Norton books. It's more what it doesn't tell you than what it does so the story lodges in your subconcious.
This has been one of my favourites for years. This copy's nearly falling apart, it's been read so often.
This is a reissue of a classic science fiction book by the author.
I found the book very engaging which made it a fast read.I recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of classic science fiction.I received a free Kindle copy of Catseye by Andre Norton courtesy of Net Galley  and Open Road Integrated Media, the publisher.
It was with the understanding that I would post a review on Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon and my fiction book review blog.
I also posted it to my Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google Plus pages.I requested this book as I read a number of books years ago by this author and found them interesting.
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
The part in an underground ruin (that remains strangely unresolved in this book) had stayed in my memory.
It is a bit old fashioned in its relatively small scope (a settled planet, a group on the run), but it was very well constructed, with a fascinating is he a good or a bad guy-character in hunter Rerne, and every element from the start fits in at the end.
Some good action scenes, creepy underground travels, and in my memory the animals were alien, but that was not the case: this is a story about cats!
Troy is still trying to eke out a living as casual labor, rather than sign a contract that lets him be shipped off in cold sleep, or join the Thieves' Guild.Luck strikes.
His rural background lets him get a job at Kyger's an animal store catering, like so many businesses on this world, to the wealthy and powerful of many worlds.
Even if his first task on the job has him spotting a man he knows joined the Thieves' Guild, and their vehicle being attacked as they returned to the job with their exotic pets -- Terran cats.
Catseye features Norton's usual broader theme of the main character finding his place in the world, but isn't really a coming-of-age story like many of her books.
A temporary job using his rusty animal handling skills starts to lever him out of the slums, but it is quickly apparent that his employer is engaged in something outside the law, and involving exotic animals imported from Terra.
The story stays focused on Troy, and his struggles against a restricted society, so that you never quite find out exactly what happened in a couple of critical places.Technically, those missing parts are outside the plot, and aren't really needed.
I first read Catseye when I was a 14 year-old junior high student.
It spoke to the uncertainty of where I belonged in the world, of the need to be honorable in my dealings with others, of the possibility of finding true companionship in beings who don't look like I do.
Nearly 50 years later, I also see that it speaks to the need to husband our natural resources and of the arbitrary politics of wars where the needs of the few apparently outweigh the needs of the many.
I feel a pressing need to reread more of her books.
This book, as with some of Andre Norton's other books, seems like it springs right from my childhood fantasies.
In the same vein as Julie of the Wolves and The Golden Compass, who doesn't wish they had a special bond with animals??This novel is a tense mystery/thriller with a fabulous plot of psychic Terran animals becoming a team with the only human who can understand them on the planet, a misfit transplant from a world destroyed by (and I think this is genius), not war, but the corruption and land-grabbing of those who got rich through war.
A good adventure story that includes a young man's coming of age tribulations and his discovery of a power he didn't know he had. This is a story for all age groups, for anyone who remembers the trials and tribulations of becoming an adult, anyone undergoing this trials and tribulations, anyone seeking a few moments in adventure, for anyone who has ever wished they could communicate far more effectively with their furred companions.
I have a tendency to confuse this book with Beast Master. Both have similar themes of men separated from their homelands, using their ability to communicate telepathically with animals to help them survive. In this book, the hero is unaware of his ability at first. In Beast Master, the ability is perfectly honed, and the man/animal team functions smoothly. Both are good stories. I love Andre Norton and consider her one of the best SF/Fantasy writers ever.
Andre Norton never disappoints, loved the connection between animals and human, have you noticed how there nearly always a cat type animal in her stories? As I am also a cat lover myself I love that they're included in her stories. My first Andre Norton was Year of the Unicorn I was hooked from then on, I will always read and re read Norton books, they're so interesting and they never date, Andre Norton was a Visionary
I read this engaging novel when I was a teenager in the 60's. It is an interesting story about a poor young man who gets a 'good' temporary job in a pet shop. During the stories development he discovers some of the animals are not just "pets". He is able to contact the minds of the animals. Deep trouble comes his way as a result.
This is my first Andre Norton book and I gobbled it up in a few days. A young man desperate for work gets a one day chance to work on the pleasure planet, Korwar and is directed to a rare species pet store for his assignment. What's not to love - an elusive mind touch from what? - one of the animals? Black and Blue cats, a clinging frightened Kinkajoo, foxes, oh my.
Can see why this is a beloved classic. Don’t give five stars to many and it doesn’t quite achieve that level but I bought a copy when I returned this to the library. Know I’ll want to read it again.
This was my first favorite book. I loved the idea of a man working together with animals and having a psychic connection. I still keep a copy in my library after reading it in high school.
Originally written in 1961, so one might expect this novel to have some dated views of technology.
As befits a Grand Master, Norton carefully sidestepped the details of physics and avoided the pitfalls of deep explanations of how things work, while using many elements of advanced weaponry and transportation in her plotline.The thing that keeps this all interesting for me, though, is the telepathic connection that Troy discovers between himself and some Terran animals.
His efforts to free himself from a lower caste in a rigid planetary society, and to untangle the plot and free the animals form the basis of the story.Quite readable, not at all dated, and in the newly released audio format, very easy to follow.
Classic Sci-Fi from the Grande Dame of Science Fiction and Fantasy.
Kind of odd; I can see why it would have been a classic, and influential, but it doesn't really draw me in. Troy Horan wasn't the most appealing main character, and I (being in an English class right now on imperial adventures and the racist rhetoric they employ) struggled with the characteration of Zul as yellow, cunning, and treacherous.
An excellent tale by a famous SF authorThis story is set in a time in the far future and was thoroughly enjoyable with a young protagonist, a dangerous villain, and believable supporting characters. The premise is unusual with a collection of nearly sentient non-humans interfacing with the hero on an outlying planet. Highly recommended.
My most favorite sci fi author I love his books. Thank you to my 3rd grade teacher for introducing him to me. I recommended all Andre Norton’s books I have never read a bad one. I really loved their one because it is my favorite fantasy being able to communicate mentally with animals.
“Catseye” eBook was published 2015 (paper copy originally published in 1961) and was written by Andre Norton (aka Alice Mary Norton, http://www.andre-norton-books.com).
I received a galley of this novel for review through https://www.netgalley.com.
The setting of this Thriller novel is a far future where Earth has colonizing other worlds.
Horan is young man who is a refugee to the planet Korwar.
Horan discovers that this has not been a simple plot but something much more serious.
I thoroughly enjoyed the 5.5 hours I spent reading this 145 page Science Fiction novel.
Further book reviews I have written can be accessed at https://johnpurvis.wordpress.com/blog/.
Like Iron Cage, this one also deals with themes of captivity and inter species understanding, and just like Iron Cage, I couldn't get enough of Catseye.
The animals in the spacer-run pet shop where Troy finally finds employment are not what they seem, through his innate abilities and his deeply seated compassion, he alone is able to see them as more than a pet, a tool or a servant.
Unfortunately the rest of the galaxy isn't ready to deal with animal equals, and Troy finds himself quickly in more trouble than he ever bargained for.
