https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122420.Asterix_and_the_Normans
As all Asterix aficionados know, opinion is divided as to his talents - Cacofonix thinks he is a genius, everyone else thinks he is unspeakable.The fearsome Normans, who "don't know the meaning of fear", come to the Gaulish coast to learn it - to their chagrin they meet with Asterix's village of indomitable Gauls, who also don't know it!
Within hours, the Normans don't learn only fear - they graduate to sheer nail-biting terror.--------------------------------Well, here's another guy on whose musical talents opinion is divided.(Well, they don't tie and gag me, but of late in our college alumni meetings I see that they never give me the microphone.)
Although since the word "Norman" actually means "northman" it was technically correct to refer to them here as Normans.Another plot involved the city kid that is Asterix's chief's nephew.
His father was worried that Justforkix was getting soft, sent him to Asterix's village to grow up a little.I was initially puzzled how this two plots would merge as the story ends but it does beautifully.
It also helped that Uderzo has just a great comic style that blended seamlessly with Goscinny's plots and words.This volume helped make me a believer.
It was plain to see why Goscinny and Uderzo were considered legends of Franco-Belgian comics.
Asterix and the Normans (Asterix, #9), René Goscinny
কোনো একটা কারণে আগে অযাসটেরিকস পড়া হয়ে ওঠে নাই, এই পরথম পড়লাম। ভীষণ মজার, ছোটবেলায় পড়তে পারলে আননদের মাতরাটা আরও বেশি হতো, সনদেহ নাই।গলপটা একদল ভাইকিং (নরমযান) যোদধা দিয়ে, একদিন তারা আবিষকার করলো দুনিয়ার হেন কাজ নাই তারে পারে না, হেন জিনিস নাই তারা জয় করে নাই, কিনতু এই দৈতযাকার ভয়ংকর রাগী অকুতোভয় ভাইকিংরা কখনো ভয় পায় নাই। তারা শুনেছে, ভয় পেলে নাকি পরাণপাখি খাঁচাছাড়া হয়ে উড়তে শুরু করে, অদময ভাইকিংরা কখনো সেই পাখি দেখবে না - তাতো হতে পারে না। তাই তারা হামলা করে অযাসটেরিকসদের গল গরামে, আর তারপরেই স

My fav Asterix of all times <3
Resistance to modernism29 September 2012 Once again this entire adventure takes place in the little village we know so well. One of Chief Vitalstatistix's nephews has been sent from Lutetia (Paris) out to Amorica to toughen him up, and as it turns out he comes across as one of those young people who do not understand the concept of work. He arrives in a sporty chariot (made in Milan, which made me think of the Ferarri) and in a way brings the idea of the city life out to the country. However, th
However, the album is more than this because way up north in Scandanavia the Norsemen, who are the Normans, want to learn the meaning of fear so that they might be able to fly, so they jump in a boat and sail to a random place (which happens to be this little village we know so well) to find out all about fear.
The idea that I came across is that struggle that exists between the pastoral idealism of the country and the modernising influence of the city.
Наздраве... с глътка магическа отвара! А вместо фойерверки - всеки римски легионер ще види звезди посред бял ден! Да посрещнем Новата Година с едни любими герои от 50 години пр. Хр., които със сигурност ще продължават да векуват! :) Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
La storia non è avvincente, ma i normanni che vogliono essere terrorizzati (perché non sanno che cos’è la paura e non desiderano passare da ignoranti) sono memorabili. Interessante l’impatto culturale del giovane Menabotte sul provinciale villaggio gallico. È poi bello vedere Assurancetourix finalmente in primo piano.
Fear is essential and vital to know your strength limits of you abilities Also this the first volume where Cacofonix is not beaten at the last page
İsimlerine hastayım:)
অযাসটেরিকস এর বেপারে কিছু বলার নেই, অসাধারণ।
অ্যাসটেরিক্স এর বেপারে কিছু বলার নেই, অসাধারণ।
Goscinny e Uderzo chegam em 1966 ao nono álbum de Asterix, desenvolvendo sua receita básica até ali: além das situações clássicas de quadrinhos (combates, socos, marretadas, etc.), brincadeiras com características dos próprios franceses, uma mistura geral de informações atuais e antigas que resulta da transposição de situações contemporâneas para a época romana e críticas sociais ou simples paródias.
Tipicamente europeu, mas continuo me lembrando sempre de que, como leitores infantis, eu e meus irmãos, mesmo sem captar o humor mais fino, nos divertíamos muito lendo as aventuras dos gauleses!Este álbum faz uma salada histórica espetacular, e por isso mesmo cômica.Vamos aos fatos históricos: os gauleses de Asterix estão, como se sabe, na Armórica, região da antiga Gália romana que incluía a região que, na França moderna, é a Normandia.
Asterix and Obliex series are the best !! So much content, such a comic language, intricate detailing in very square of the story ... one can imagine how much effort they must have put to create these gems. I like all of them but Asterix and the Legionary and this one - Asterix and the Normans are my favorite out of favourites. I keep repeating many lines aloud when I read Asterix comics as the flow of words is magical.
cacofonix gets back on fulliautomatix!well, sort ofi was supposed to cram in these asterix books to meet my 53-book challenge for 2014better luck next time, slacker (me)happy new year to everyone
Mi è sempre piaciuta parecchio questa storia, con i norreni in cerca dell'unica cosa che ancora non sanno cosa sia: la paura! E la motivazione per cui la cercano è la cosa più divertente.Quasi un capolavoro.
Ipaf, Pravilaf, Biograf, Paragraf, Epitaf, Telegraf, Batiskaf, Paraf
De los que más me ha gustado de Asterix. Es de los que tengo más cariño.
Why would you go to Asterix to find out what fear was? But the best thing about this series is the fact that Asterix has intelligence.
Asterix, Obelix and Cacofonix(!) teach a bunch of fearless Normans the meaning of fear and give them wings to fly. Talk about sonic weapons! The Normans leave after promising to return in a few centuries.Along the way they also make a man out of the slacking rocker of a nephew of Vitalstatistix whose rock music is much more appreciated than poor Cacofonix's - who does get his due credit at the customary banquet in the end with FullyAutomatix gagged and bound instead.Read it on https://archive.org/stream/asterixnor...
Trubadurixin järisyttävät laulunlahjat ja taiteilijan temperamentti jaksavat aina huvittaa, ja tässä osassa olivatkin suuressa osassa. Kun siihen vielä yhdistetään pelottavia normanneja ja vetelä kaupunkilaispoika, joka lähetetään kylään vähän miehistymään, niin onhan se eeppistä.
Ja taas vaan paranee. Juonta ja hyviä vitsejä. Näemmä tässä vaiheessa sarja on parhaimmillaan. Toivottavasti kantaa vielä muutaman albumin.
Pour une fois qu'Assurancetorix prend part au banquet... il ne vous reste plus qu'à découvrir pourquoi!
J’ai peur...
Einfach sehr lustig
"Le vrai courage c'est de savoir dominer sa peur."
a different feel to this one. enjoyable.
(view spoiler)[ Sono Pazzi Questi Normanni (hide spoiler)]
-No se puede ser valiente sin conocer el miedo ¡El verdadero valor consiste en saber dominar el miedo!-
Astérix et les Normands - René GoscinnyRating: ★★Review coming soon!
Die Normannen kommen - diesmal begeben sich Asterix und Obelix nicht auf eine Reise, diesmal bekommen sie Besuch.
Nicht nur ein Verwandter aus der Stadt, welcher völlig verweichlicht ist, völlig verwöhnt ist und im Dorf lernen soll auf eigenen Beinen zu stehen.
Genau in diesem Moment erscheinen die Normannen, auf der Suche nach Angst, einem Gefühl, welches sie nicht kennen und von dem sie glauben, dass es Flügel verleiht.
Spannend wie dabei die Normannen erscheinen und der Humor bis zur letzten Seite nicht endet.
Vor allem wenn dann die Normannen Angst kennen lernen, auf eine Art und Weise wie sie nur vonRene und Albert erdacht hätte werden können.
I recently read a few books from the series Asterix.
These characters are known as Gauls, a certain ethnic group in northern Europe.
I found these actually quite funny, and really interesting, considering I do not even really enjoy comics.
The illustrations were the same through out each book in the collection, which completely amazes me.
The favorite book that I read out of the Asterix series is “Asterix and The Normans”.
But during his vacation, the Gauls have another visitor, the Normans.
They come to learn about fear, considering they do not have any..
I really recommend the Asterix Series!
Com sabor a saudade, li Astírix e os Normandos para tentar compreender um pouco o passado deste povo para uma cadeira de Cultura Medieval, mas, sinceramente, o que acabou por acontecer foi meia hora de divertimento puro com o olho clínico abandonado, trocado pelo prazer da leitura e observação.A história não poderia ser mais hilariante, ela própria um trocadilho típico dos que Goscinny costuma fazer com os seus diálogos peculiares que nos deixam sempre na expectativa relativamente ao quanto ainda nos irá surpreender.
bem, esqueçam os melhores amigos, a dupla que marca gerações, porque também ele é o mais improvável possível.Como alude a sinopse, os normandos são uns bravos, eu devo dizer selvagens, que não conhecem o medo e – pasmem-se – querem conhecer esse sentimento, resolvendo então fazer uma incursão à famosa Aldeia Gaulesa.
This is the ninth Asterix adventure and this time Asterix meets the Normans.Justforkix is the nephew of the village chief Vitalstatistix and is sent to the village from his native Lutetia (Paris) because he is soft and needs toughening up.
Meanwhile the Norman chief is concerned that his Normans don't know the meaning of fear so goes off to Gaul in search of it.
Unfortunately the village they end up at is Asterix's village and they also don't know the meaning of fear.
There is a kidnapping in the book too, which features in a lot of Asterix stories, but all-in-all another great Asterix story.
Normans don't know fear.
This, they consider to be a serious drawback as it is impossible to cure hiccups.
More importantly, they have heard that fear lends you wings and flying is the only art they haven't mastered.
They set out on a journey to master the art of fear.
However the destination they chose is a small Gaulish village of Asterix and Obelix where again no one knows fear.
Luckily for the Normans, these Gaul's have guest amongst them from a different country who happen to know a great deal about fear.
It's now upto the Gauls to teach Normans about fear.
I Normanni non sanno cos'è la paura, perciò vanno in Gallia per cercare di scoprirlo. Questa volta Asterix e Obelix avranno a che fare con dei veri barbari e con un adolescente da loro terrorizzato. Ma a salvare capra e cavoli ci penserà...Assourancentourix.Risate assicurate in questa avventura piena di battute e doppi sensi in cui non solo si scontrano due popoli piuttosto bellicosi, ma anche due generazioni (la festa danzante è geniale). E lo sbarco dei Normanni non solo richiama le scorribande vichinghe, ma anche lo sbarco in Normandia del 1944.
Nevertheless, this play on the old folk tale of the man who doesn't know the meaning of the word fear, so goes looking to discover what fear is--transferred, here, to fearless Normans wanting to understand this phenomenon because fear allows you to fly--has a great many very funny moments--including a sculling joke I don't think I got until this most recent reading.
All the expected elements are here (including not one but two appearances by the pirates--in a grand total of two panels that more or less bookend the adventure), as well as some surprises, such as a rare success for Cacofonix.
But there are some dandy large-sized setting panels that are just a joy to look at.
So they set out to find someone who can teach them fear and by random, pick up Gaul and specifically the beach near our Gaulish village to go about their task.
Our Gaulish villagers do not know fear either, but luckily for the Normans, the Gauls have a visitor from Lutetia, young Justforkix, who may be able to help them.The authors have a lot of fun in this book.
Although the author’s loyalties lie with the villagers, they make a very sympathetic character out of Justforkix.
Doch nicht durch Prügelei wird den furchtlosen Invasoren schließlich angst und bange, sondern durch einen völlig unerwarteten, viel schrecklicheren Gegner...Die Asterix-Comics, in Deutschland wie Frankreich ein Kulturgut, das wohl jedes Kind kennt, glänzen durch ihre humorvolle, hintersinnige und vor Sprachwitz nur so sprühende Charakterisierung der Figuren.
Szenarist Goscinny hat darüber hinaus in Uderzo einen kongenialen Partner als Zeichner gewonnen, dessen Bilder sich in das Gedächtnis einer ganzen Generation eingebrannt haben.Die Normannen-Geschichte lebt von der Ausarbeitung einer Pointe, wie es in der Comicwelt wohl nur Goscinny konnte, ohne dass Längen auftreten.
Die Noormanne wil leer wat dit beteken om bang te wees.
Van Schalkwyk-Barrois se vertaling munt weer eens uit met sprankelende woordspelings in Afrikaans (kyk 'n bietjie wat "kopgee" hier beteken!) en die wonderlikste name vir die karakters.
Kafdraf, Morsaf, Tjoeftjaf en Lekkerlaf is maar enkele van sy manskappe.'n Besondere toevoeging tot die Afrikaanse Asterix-reeks.An excellent story and a sparkling translation, crackling with puns and brilliant character names, combine to create one of the best episodes in this Afrikaans Asterix series.
Il faut pratiquer mon français, donc, commence avec des bds ;-)Je ne m'attendais pas à être amusée par une bd comme celui ci mais pendant la lecture, des plaisanteries m'ont fait sourire souvent. Le dessin et si mignon et j'ai aimé beaucoup la couleur vive. De plus, j'ai gagné de nouveaux mots, des expressions communes des phrases courantes aussi. On peut apprendre un peu d'histoire de la France aussi :--)J'ai hâte de lire des autres parus Merci bcp na ka prof piri
História bem construída, coerente no seu desenvolvimento e com a crítica à modernidade que faz dos livros muito divertidos.Astérix e Obélix vão cuidar do jovem sobrinho do chefe da aldeia (nesta edição, Matasétix) que vem de Lutécia com todos os tiques dos jovens irreverentes, para ver se lhe ensinam hábitos saudáveis.
E, ao que sabem, o Medo faz voar.
No banquete do fim do livro ao Bardo é permitido não ficar amarrado para não cantar porque o jovem Atrevidix (um grande especialsita em sabe o que é o medo ao contrário dos intrépidos gauleses que também o não conhecem) aprecia os seus "cânticos".
The mailman is Postaldistrix. The chief's brother is Doublehelix. The nephew is Justforkix. The chief is Olaf Timandahaf. The Normans want to know what fear is and they hope the Gauls will be able to teach them the meaning of the word.Obviously, they haven't heard the village Bard sing, and that's the secret weapon of the village that will teach the Normans the true meaning of fear. Be afraid. Be very afraid.

Having Vikings visit the Gauls to find out the meaning of fear seems unusual, until you realise that the Chiefs visiting nephew is the biggest coward going! Lots of fun, and this was adapted into the movie Asterix And The Vikings.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
The Normans wanted to know the meaning of fear. And when they attacked the three Gauls (Asterix, Obelix and Cacofonix), and the Gauls defeated the Normans, then they feared everything.
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
I like it because the characters are very funny My grandpa got me all their tin and Astrid books and my favorite character in this book is just for kid
Eg hadde ikkje gløymt det middels bra piggtrådmusikk-greiene, men at vikingane lagde all mat i fløyte (både jordbær og villsvin) oppdaga eg på nytt.
It's only when you know fear that you become truly brave. Courage lies in overcoming your fear.Getafix, The Gaul's Druid.A fine work of art, as usual.
Un comic ideal par quienes quieren volar a como dé lugar; ora por conocer el miedo, ora por desfallecer de la risa y ascender al Cielo.
English and Latin Word play for aeons.
Was there energy drinks when René Goscinny did this?
Not one to endorse the drinking of Energy Drinks, the magic potions at super powered corporate rate measured dosages found often over priced, and Obelix got the deal like envy even if fat.
So before buying Red Bulls, there’s a price slash of a variety, besides the Monster Energy cans, there's this Omnibus about Asterix and Obelix worth every ink drop… consider stocking up and grabbing this for your peace of mind before the available small Red Bull cans in store.
very funny story. read this in school days first, in bengali. and discovered now that it doesn't loose a bit now.
