https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18140047-love-letters-to-the-dead
My name is Laurel and I go to High School but I am still going to talk to you in the passive, immature voice of a 10 year old and then occasionally break out into beautiful metaphors about the sparkles in Sky's eyes and how just one glance from him makes fireflies dance in my stomach (or something equally nauseating beautiful).
I know that may be surprising when all I actually do is pull the petals off flowers and wonder if Sky loves me.____________________________________________You know, this book is actually almost exactly like the diaries I wrote when I was about 10/11 years old.
Laurel's sister has died so she deals with all her thoughts and feelings by writing letters to different dead people - inc.
Dear Kurt Cobain,Mrs. Buster gave us our first assignment in English today, to write a letter to a dead person. For me, this book was pointless, puerile, and pretentious, with a character who is the passive, dull YA contemporary equivalent of Bella Swan or Luce Price. It’s hard to be myself, because I don’t know exactly who I am. But now that I’ve started high school, I need to figure it out really fast. The main character was simultaneously too naive and juvenile, while never letting me forget
If I wanted to read about a main character that I can't relate to, whose grief isn't even present, who falls in love too easily, who lets herself be completely bent by peer pressure, who can't really relate to her family...WHY DO I NEED TO PAY MONEY FOR IT?
If this book were an YA paranormal, Laurel would be the equivalent of Bella Swan because she fucking does nothing in the book unless someone drags her into it.She is a good girl, an innocent girl who drinks and do stupid stuff like ask strangers to buy her alcohol because her (cool) friends tell her to.
4.5 stars Months ago, I had to put Love Letters to the Dead down because it was making me so desperately sad. Almost a full year later, I read the last half of it with a lump in my throat and tears dripping down my face. This is a profoundly moving meditation on grief, written with rare sensitivity and the kind of prose that nearly stops your heart with moments of quiet, anguished beauty. Review on the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...Strongly recommended for fans of If I Stay.
3.5 STARSOur flushing hearts, trying to climb the stars - how with the wrong wind, we can fall. I don’t think I’ve ever felt so many contrasting emotions for a book as I did for this one. My first impulse was to rage quit this as early as the second Cobain letter, followed by derisively laughing at Laurel’s puerile drama. Then I felt some alien tug at my heart over Aunt Amy and her Jesus Man and got teary-eyed over the story behind her parents’ broken marriage. Reading this book felt a lot like
Reading this book felt a lot like having your emotions painfully scooped out of you, put back reconfigured at the end: strangely familiar but also new.
It was a little strange to read Laurel write to Kurt Cobain about his own divorced parents, then making the rough connection with her own life, then relate a childhood memory with May, then tell him what happened today in school.
The moments this book worked best for me was when I forget that Laurel is writing a letter to these people.
Una historia con la que he conectado por pasajes, con personajes secundarios que realmente no aportan nada y en general, una trama que da tumbos.Cartas de amor a los muertos me ha parecido una novela simple, llena de situaciones clichés y con una manera de ser narrada que creo que a veces era más una lacra que una virtud.
(Que ha sido un tema que me ha sorprendido, pero creo que era un tema demasiado importante como para dejarlo pasar a la primera de cambio.)En general es una novela básica pero al menos entretenida, con la que aprendes detalles muy interesantes sobre las vidas de los personajes célebres que se mencionan, y sobre todo, es un pequeño viaje de descubrimiento y de aceptación.
Reminiscent of Perks Of Being A Wallflower, Love Letters To The Dead is too beautiful, too meaningful, and too heartbreaking to describe with words. An incredible, moving and very important story with a beating heart and bright soul. It's one of those books that everyone ought to read, own, and share with all their friends. don't miss it
De alguna manera me ha decepcionado porque me esperaba algo más fuerte, más contundente y mejor escrito.Aún así, también es cierto que Cartas de amor a los muertos ha sido una novela que me ha sorprendido gratamente.
Algo que me pareció increíble, el hecho de poder construir a dos personajes (uno de ellos ya fallecido) a través de unas cartas y del dolor del otro.También creo que fue un acierto contar la historia a través de cartas dirigidas a famosos fallecidos.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Obviously Mitchell and I aren’t the target demographic for this book, so take my rating with several grains of salt and I’m going to keep this short and sweet sour, just like myself. Love Letters To The Dead could have been a perfectly A-Okay book for me. The basic storyline is Laurel’s sister May is gone and Laurel is lost in her grief. She swaps schools in order to get rid of the “sister of the dead girl” stigma and is presented wit
Love Letters To The Dead could have been a perfectly A-Okay book for me.
The basic storyline is Laurel’s sister May is gone and Laurel is lost in her grief.
The letters, the what happened to the dead sister, the grieving process, the finding herself plotlines were all great.
Laurel’s sister croaked and that should have been enough for one book.
And just to confirm to all that I’m in fact a giant dick – I don’t understand the allure of Kurt Cobain either.
Somehow my generation (the one who actually grew up listening to a live Kurt Cobain rather than a dead one) was able to respect this.
O Peso das MemóriasMay e Laurel crescem juntas partilhando o mundo, até àquele dia fatídico que Laurel, se possível, eliminaria do calendário, para que tudo regressasse ao outrora!...Laurel e May, May e Laurel, irmãs e cúmplices, juntas e felizes, duas e uma!...Com o trágico desaparecimento da irmã, Laurel perdera aquele mundo construído e partilhado.
Aquele resto que também era ela e sem o qual se sentia perdida?!...Invadira-a uma incómoda sensação alienígena.
Aquelas mini-saias e vestidos arrojados — roupas corajosas como ela, que tão bem a definiam!...E escrever...
"You can be noble and brave and beautiful and still find yourself falling."  Although the title is a blaring warning that this is going to be a tough and probably a torturous read, I boldly ignored it because look at the book cover.
The letter writing which only started as a school requirement (and which she didn’t even turn in to her teacher) paved the way for Laurel (such a pretty name) to reveal and express all those pent up emotions over her sad and bitter experiences including the death of her only sister.
***This review has also been posted on The Social Potato WARNING: This book may cause you to spend a whole day feeling down.  “There are some things I can’t tell anyone, except the people who aren’t here anymore” This is honestly a very hard book to review. It brought out a lot of mixed feelings in me. I went back and forth between being pissed and loving the book and it wasn’t until the 3rd third that I decided that this book was wonderful. A warning though, if you don’t like drama, avoid this.
It tells a story about learning to accept yourself and it’s a tale about forgiveness.Laurel is starting high school at a school where she doesn’t know anyone.
It hurts you almost as much as the person who is hurting and honestly, I don’t blame Sky. There were some things Laurel needed to realize on her own and until she did so, there relationship could not have worked.This is a very character driven book because at its heart, it’s a coming of age story and we join Laurel in her journey.
We are told from the beginning that Laurels elder sister May died young.While we are not told the circumstances of the death straightaway, we are told snippets of the events leading up to her death, how her death happened and the circumstances surrounding it.This is a story on grief and loss from one girls perspective.
It tells the story of how May, the sister who died, is seen as perfect in Laurels mind and memories of them together, it goes through the emotions of grief, and also looks at family, friendship and first love.
What I got was an annoying protagonist, one- dimensional characters and a history of celebs who died at a very young age.
*there are a few exceptions, like me, falling in love with Newt Scamander the moment I saw him* I cannot tell you how annoying Laurel was.
There were two positive things about this book though.
THEIR LOVE WAS 95542588854% REAL AND NOT LIKE THE STUPID, BLAND RELATIONSHIP SKY AND LAUREL HAD.
One final thing I've got to say: there's a part where Laurel lies down on a busy road to challenge a bully to do the same.
I have no idea how to explain how I feel about this book.... Like it was good... But I hated it? My emotions are confused. Video review to come (possibly)
There were parts of it I really liked and there were parts of it when I thought my eyes would glaze over and never recover.
Laurel is given an assignment to write to a dead person.
She has moved to a new school to help cope with her sister Mae's death.
Hoping that a new school will shield her from any one that knew her sister.
I love YA books and have read some great ones but this one fell so very short for me.
I did like some of the letters.
All in all the best I can give this book is a 2 star.
There wasn't much build up or substance or....anything, until closer until the end.I loved Natalie & Hannah and their storyline, though I wish more of the focus would have gone to them than any of the other secondary characters.*spoilers ahead beware* But THE PLOT.
The major "shocking" plot point was so much the same, and the background characters were going through almost THE SAME SITUATION as people in Perks.
EVEN MINOR CHARACTERS HAD THE SAME PROBLEMS.i really really wish the author would have used a completely different story with an equally as shocking revelation of something different because this story had so much potential.
“What I told you about saving people isn't true. You might think it is, because you might want someone else to save you, or you might want to save someone so badly. But no one else can save you, not really. Not from yourself. [...] You fall asleep in the foothills, and the wolf comes down from the mountains. And you hope someone will wake you up. Or chase it off. Or shoot it dead. But when you realize that the wolf is inside you, that's when you know. You can't run from it. And no one who loves
I loved how deep and simple it was, it approached the problems teenagers can sometimes face in a really touching and beautiful way.We all know that sometimes parents can be of no help to us, there are things that every single person has to cope with alone with no help from loved ones and that does not only apply to the grown ups, it also applies to kids who've been through things & are still going through some tough stuff that they cannot talk about to anyone because they feel like they can't be helped, or saved.
Don't be naive enough to think that you're not worthy, that you're not loved or that you won't be accepted.
This book tore my heart into pieces and left me a total mess.
It was both absolutely beautiful and devastating at the same time.
I loved the idea of it and it totally sucked me in.
I related to the main character Laurel in many ways and I think that's a big part of why I loved this book so much.
I went through a very difficult period right around the same age as she is during the story and so I really connected with her that way.
And then it ended it such a perfect, beautiful way that it brought me to tears.
I absolutely LOVED this book!
Nothing is worse that when someone who is supposed to love you just leaves.3.5 STARS I felt a bit like climbing a ladder with this one.
Whether it is because they feel so personal or because they simply have a 'different' vibe to them - I think the concept of writing letters to dead people was a fantastic idea.
If you like exploring different writing styles, I think you'd be intrigued by Ava Dellaira's - it was a refreshing change.
I had trouble understanding why Laurel liked him, and I felt a lot of distaste towards the way he treated her.
Immature characters and predictable drama :(Laurel is given an assignment in Freshman English to write a letter to a dead person.
She must learn to forgive May, herself, and her mother (who abandons her after the tragedy).My Thoughts:I wanted to like this book.
Eats whatever she wants, listens to bands that she personally likes, or at least figures out who she really is at some point.The other thing was the plethora of pedophiles.
It's pretty much the only thing that kept me reading.So yeah this book is just not for me.
Tedious. Repetitive. Pretentious. Love Letters to the the Dead is too similar to The Perks of Being a Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky. Yes, a copy.
ALL OF THE STARS. 5 MILLION BILLIONS STARS.I AM A MESS RIGHT NOW, BUT OMG THIS BOOK HAS TOUCHED ME SO DEEPLY. I can't even coherently gather my thoughts. Just know that I wholeheartedly recommend you read this book. A heartbreakingly beautiful story about grief and growing up. A story about forgiveness. Love, friendship, and family themes are all present. This book will grab hold of you and won't let go. I'm SO in love with this book. In love with Laurel's story. May's story. And every other character's story. PLEASE READ THIS. PLEASE. GO READ THIS RIGHT NOW.
Besides, even though we might believe the dead will not read these letters, a tiny part in our hearts kind of believes (hopes?) that you can read them, but since you're dead and beyond, you don't really care how deep or poetic or weird or nonsensical we get, because you know about things beyond death, so the way we sound is the smallest of your thoughts.So, for me, this is what this book is mostly about.
the art of losing's not too hard to masterthough it may look like disaster.Love Letters To The Dead is, in sum, about loss, grief and guilt; all welded together into a sharp weapon that keeps stabbing at the heart of Laurel.
Once I began this novel, I found striking resemblance with two books: Love, Rosie because of the presentation of the story in the format of letters and All the Bright Places because of an on-silent-mode central character (like Violet Markey) who has lost her sister.
Laurel explained this, in this way:It's a myth that grief makes you closer.
Lo leía para descansar de otros libros que estaba leyendo a la par.
Si no conoces nada sobre los músicos y actores muy conocidos de la cultura POP que se mencionan en este libro, quizá te parezca entretenido, pero para mí fue por demás tedioso.
Mi mayor problema es de verdad creérmela que una chica milenial, bebe de los 90's realmente conociera a estos personajes.
Pudo ser una historia interesante, sin duda la protagonista y todos sus problemas tocan temas muy importantes, pero la autora no supo desarrollarlos y todo queda atascado entre tanta paja.
Divna knjiga Zbunjivala me je,i nervirala,i raspekmezila me je,nasmejala...i kad se skupi sve na gomilu - divna je i vredna čitanja  "Zabluda je da tuga ujedinjuje..." Detaljnije o knjizi možete pročitati na blogu Crni biser&Prodavnica snova http://crnibiser87.blogspot.rs/2017/0...
wow. That's such a massive, massive understatement, but I just...wow. Hands down the best book I've read in 2014.
What I do know is that I can’t say no to YA novels.Love Letters to the Dead was brought to my attention by one of those stupid fake Dear John letters from other authors you get in your email once in a while.
A lot, I’d even say a majority, of kids fall more in line with Laurel’s story.I really loved Laurel.
I wish that I had come out with my buried secret all those years ago, but I didn’t.
The hard part, as Laurel finds out, is talking to people you love about the pain you are going through.
3.5/5La Autora escribe hermoso, como si fuera un poeta, sin embargo la historia está regular, los personajes algunos buenos, otros regulares, lo que combierte está lectura en una regular para mi, sin lugar a duda es una historia un tanto real un tanto pendeja.....Sin más que decir...Éste NENE....(Hasta termino las cartas mejor que Laurel xD)
I loved how it was told all in letters and the fact that we learned about the celebrities she was writing to.
I thought that was so interesting!This book will make you feel things.
I loved learning more about Laurel's family & how her sister May's death came to be.
May had a HUGE effect on Laurel's life and this book is all about learning that their is no such thing as a perfect person even if she is your sister & best friend.VERY PROFOUND BOOK!
