https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274893.The_Complete_Poems_and_Plays
Collected Poems 1909-1962 Prufrock (1917)--The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock--Portrait of a Lady--Preludes--Rhapsody on a Windy Night--Morning at the Window--The 'Boston Evening Transcript'--Aunt Helen--Cousin Nancy--Mr. Apollinax--Hysteria--Conversation Galante--La Figlia Che PiangePoems (1920)--Gerontion--Burbank with a Baedeker: Bleistein with a Cigar--Sweeney Erect--A Cooking Egg--Le Directeur--Mélange Adultère de Tout--Lune de Miel--The Hippopotamus--Dans le Restaurant--Whispers of Immor
Lady, three white leopards sat under a juniper-tree--III.
Although I do not hope to turn againAriel Poems--Journey of the Magi (1927)--A Song for Simeon (1928)--Animula (1929)--Marina (1930)--The Cultivation of Christmas Trees (1954)Unfinished PoemsSweeney Agonistes:--Fragment of a Prologue--Fragment of an AgonCoriolan:--I.
Difficulties of a StatesmanMinor Poems--Eyes that last I saw in tears--The wind sprang up at four o'clockFive-Finger Exercises:--I.
Lines to a Yorkshire Terrier--III.
Thus your fathers were made--III.
Laforgue)--Spleen--Ode--The Death of Saint NarcissusIndex of First Lines of Poems
We named our kid after the guy. What did you think I was going to rate it?
I still have the edition I pilfered from my high school library. After I was the only one to check it out for about a year, I decided I would just keep it. And I have loved it ever since. Eliot is titillating and sharp, also poignant and worldly. He was my first poetic love.
T.S. Eliot wrote glorious modernist poetry. I highly recommend the Faber and Faber hardcover edition which includes every poem and play he wrote. "The Wasteland" will leave you purged while "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cat's" will fill you with mirth. I savored every minute as I read each poem.
I enjoyed The Waste Land even more the third time around. I did enjoy his poems a lot more than his plays.
I don't want to rate this genius man. I have named my cat Macavity.
Probably the only poet I have read the entire collected works of. (Verse work he chose to publish in his lifetime, that is.) Having not been prolific, Eliot achieved an extraordinarily high average standard.I do not profess to "understand" some of Eliot's more notoriously obscure poems, however, I love them for the sound they make.
Lovers of poetry..if you havent read this..DO!!
I've been carrying this treasure around for at least over a decade now, and I finally got around to reading it.
As you know, I'm possibly the greatest Eliot fan alive today, but I got to tell you, his famous poems are probably his best poems.
I was sort of hoping The Cocktail Party would be much more akin to The Importance of Being Earnest, but it wasn't (as we all know).
Maybe it's like the final season of Lost.His essays are truly where Eliot shines, but I'm glad to have finally read his (mostly) complete poems and plays.
"Бих желал да съм яките клещи на рак,които пробиват подовете на мълчаливи морета......Ние ще бродим в залите, дълбоко под морето,сирените ще ни окичат с водорасли, червени и кафяви,додето ни събудят човешки гласове и се удавим."
Mesmerizing and delight poems and plays written by a genius of prose!
PRICELESS!
TS Eliot, arguably the greatest poet that ever lived, was not particularly prolific: this collection of poems and plays, encompassing his whole life's work, runs to around 596 pages, the majority of which is taken up by his plays.
Overall, the book is, I would say, essential to any lover of literature, though particularly to scholars of Eliot or those who have not yet been exposed to the brilliance of his works.
Actually I only read most of the poems, not the plays.
I wanted to read the Song of Simeon which is why I had requested the book from the library.
Quite a dark view of life in a lot of them (except for the cats of course)...
Eliot was accused of being an anti-Semite for the Song of Simeon, and I could see that the ending might be taken that way.
Simeon was the elder in the story of Jesus being presented as a baby in the temple.
I thought it was an interesting musing on Eliot's part of what Simeon might have been thinking and feeling.
Cleared my rating because I don't see much point in giving an author's entire corpus something as insulting and nonsensical as a "star-rating". It's bad enough for individual books.That being said, this, the Faber&Faber edition, is the copy to get. It includes everything that's left out of other collections that are presented as the complete works of Eliot.
In my opinion T.S. Eliot was in his time (and remains) the last major poet of the English language and possibly also the last major poet of Western civilisation. Although not without flaws, he yet remains an inspired master of his art.
Very engaging and challenging. Will read again when I'm older.
Definitely one of the best poets. I thoroughly enjoyed his poetry.
"the waste land" and "four quartets", along with some of the minor poems, are a solid 5 stars
All the poems in the previous edition plus old possum's cats and the four plays m. Probably the best book of modern English language poetry anyone could own.
I read the poems; I didn't read the plays. I don't very much enjoy Eliot.
Geranium:)
His work is masterful and very well crafted.
A time honoured favorite
Let these words stand where mine fail.
A long time member of my book shelves. To be pulled down and one or another of Eliot's plays relished once again -- or perhaps, sadly, for the first time.
Five stars to all of it except the "The Cocktail Party"
