https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40440.The_Thirteenth_Tale
The protagonist, Margaret, grew up in a bookstore and learned to read using 19th century novels, and there are clear parallels in the story to Jane Eyre, Wuthering Heights, The Turn of the Screw, and so on.And yet, with all it had going for it, somehow it fell flat for me.
One wishes A.S. Byatt had written this novel, as I suspect Setterfield may not have felt up to the task of writing "the thirteenth tale," which has a fascinating premise.
With all of the wonderful Victorian-style writing going on now from former academics like Sarah Waters and AS Byatt, it's too bad this book didn't measure up.
“There is something about words. In expert hands, manipulated deftly, they take you prisoner. Wind themselves around your limbs like spider silk, and when you are so enthralled you cannot move, they pierce your skin, enter your blood, numb your thoughts. Inside you they work their magic.”  I don't know if I've ever loved words so much.Lots of people told me that this was a book I needed to read, but many of those people also warned me that I might find it slow. So I went into The Thirteenth Ta
I don't know if I've ever loved words so much.Lots of people told me that this was a book I needed to read, but many of those people also warned me that I might find it slow.
I was intrigued by the mystery, seduced by the characters and caught up in page after page of well-written family drama.Do you like...?:1) Books2) Mysteries3) Family dramasIf you said yes to those, then I really can't see any reason you wouldn't love this book.
Before accepting, Margaret reads and falls in love with one of the author's books called Thirteen Tales of Change and Desperation, but she is surprised to find that it contains only twelve stories...
"Do you know the feeling when you start reading a new book before the membrane of the last one has had time to close behind you?
I’ll admit that it took me a bit to get hooked, but, a few chapters in, I found myself thinking about the novel and the developing plot at times when I was unable to be reading.There is no reference to time in the setting of The Thirteenth Tale.
The feel of the book is reminiscent of Jane Eyre, a novel that itself is woven throughout the plot.The story begins when Margaret Lea, a little-published biographer, is summoned by Vida Winter, famous novelist.
"Tell me the truth." These are the words that a young journalist speaks to Vida Winter in the beginning of this book. Vida is an author famous for spinning magical tales. In books, and about her life. Each time she releases a new story, she grants multiple interviews, in which every journalist asks her the story of her life, and leaves thinking that they, finally, after decades of deceptions, are the one she's told the truth to. But she never does. Until now. Out of the blue, she writes to an a
These are the words that a young journalist speaks to Vida Winter in the beginning of this book.
Each time she releases a new story, she grants multiple interviews, in which every journalist asks her the story of her life, and leaves thinking that they, finally, after decades of deceptions, are the one she's told the truth to.
That she is finally ready to tell the truth.
Because The Thirteenth Tale is a book that you need to read at least twice in your life.
The first time, to learn the truth.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsSo here's my problem with gothic literature: it's so habitually grotesque that it's predictable.If there's not incest, there's a crazy wife in the attic.
<------how cool is that?But now she's dying, so she contacts our MC (Margaret), an amateur biographer who's grown up in her father's rare bookshop (a bibliophile's DREAM), and employs Margaret to write her life story before she leaves this mortal coil.After that is when it gets weird.
And even if you avoid gothic novels like I do, this one .
But Angelfield House conceals a chilling secret whose impact still resonates.Unnerving and compelling in equal measure, this is one of those books where the pages turn by themselves.
So if like me you enjoy, Abandoned manor homes where secrets and mysteries lure the reader in then this may well work for you.Even though this was my second time to read this novel and I even seen the TV adaptation, I still enjoed every moment spent with this book and will gladly replace this one on its well earned spot on my book shelf.
Emphasis on coercive--my main gripe about this mess of a novel is that while reading I couldn't shake the feeling that the author is constantly trying to impress upon the reader--HOODWINK INTO BELIEVING, more like it--that this piece of moribund trash is actually a work of serious literature.Might I illustrate this vexing complaint for you?
Of course, the problem is that Setterfield is not (nor should she be) the greatest living English author, nor even close to it, and she's overreaching in trying to depict Winter as such.
''We live like latecomers at the theatre; we must catch up as best we can, dividing the beginning from the shape of later events.'' The Thirteenth Tale had been ''waiting'' in my TBR list for almost two years, before I finally decided to start reading it. It proved to be a rare bibliophile's experience.In the Gothic Literature group October Reading and in a recent discussion with a friend in Goodreads, I described Diane Setterfield's novel as foreboding. Each scene, each sentence is a creation
The Thirteenth Tale had been ''waiting'' in my TBR list for almost two years, before I finally decided to start reading it.
I will not go into any detail of the plot, because it is hard to do so without falling into the trap of spoiling something, but I can say that the lover of books will find a treasure of references.
Foreboding houses, problematic narrators, troubled heroines, and all the sins and faults of the past that go on haunting families and places.
Margaret is a very interesting character that stands as equal to the troubled Vida.
It is a classic, a haunting tale, its prose elegant and poetic.
Whiich is apt seeing as amonst other things it is the tale of books and their words sucking you in.
Like The House at Riverton it has a very Brontesque Gothic atmosphere to it; it is also set in Cambridge and the Yorkshire Moors - my two favourite places!
Maybe it is my utter empathy with the narrator, which I got with the Little Friend and also from the characters in The Secret History.
I haven't enjoyed a contemporary novel so much since the Secret History (and believe me that is high praise indeed).
Just twist the characters a little and you have it.Again, the early part of the descriptions, where Margaret Lea meets the author are a joy to read.
It is a leitmotif, and evidently Setterfield wants to pay homage to the Brontes, but more subtle references would have been more enjoyable for the reader.As the novel proceeds the reader develops more of an interest in the retelling of Vida Winter's story as well as her (view spoiler)[gradual deterioration, mirrored by the mental deterioration of the viewpoint character, Margaret.
The writing flows smoothly and hypnotically, drawing you into the tale much as Vida Winter's books were said to draw the reader into her invented worlds.
This one of my favorite books. I don't re-read books very often. This is one of the few that would make the list. This book has been reviewed about 3000 times, so I'm not going to add more to the pile. I will just stay I recommend this book to all book lovers no matter what genre you prefer. A+
Her entire life is a secret: and, for over fifty years, reporters and biographers have tried innumerable methods in an attempt to extract the truth from Winter.
With her health quickly fading, Winter enlists Margaret Lea, a bookish amateur biographer, to hear her story and write her biography.
While a homage to classic gothic novels no need to be a fan - pick it up if you’re into mysteries with plenty of psychological twists, ambiance and above all – suspense!
That’s when I relaxed, immersed myself in this tragic tale of arson, incest, insanity, abandonment, and murder.Great premise, picture someone like J.K. Rowling on her deathbed choosing you to reveal her deepest darkest secrets too, you get the idea☺ Amateur biographer Margaret is hired by reclusive world-famous author Vita Winter to chronicle her life, an author who's perfected writing fiction, keeping secrets, mastered deception.
When I read about the "other presence" in the rooms and the girl that was playing with Emmeline in the fields that told me that there was another child.When you read the book, you will notice that all through the times when Miss Winter is telling her story to Miss Lea that there is mysteries within mysteries.
I have found that most children can handle the truth as long as it is explain to them in a language that they can understand.To me the first book that Miss Winter wrote, Thirteen Tales of Change & Desperation,was her way of trying to tell her personal story.
Unfortunately, I finished it with a sense of disappointment.My interest wavered throughout the novel, going on a roller coaster ride of ups and downs.
Unfortunately, there were more downs than ups.The book started off with a bang!
After the first quarter of the book, the story got very 'strange', for lack of a better term.
Often I found it hard to talk myself into picking this book back up to continue reading.
Several of the characters were extremely unlikable.What I liked about the book was the bookshop and library atmospheres.
One that was missing from a previous book which stated it had thirteen tales, but only contained twelve.
The writing is so exquisite that I would follow it anywhere.The book begins, "You want to know someone heart, mind and soul?
It will be a story, and nothing is more telling than a story." And so, Vita Winters is enticing me with story, stating, "a good story is always more dazzling than a broken piece of truth." But, the truth has become a bully in her mind.
I must have those words in writing, for they are truly...dazzling!
I can’t remember why I bought this and it’s probably not fair that I rate it because at times I felt like I was reading a novel in a language I don’t understand.
At times it felt more like a product than a labour of love.
There’s also the baffling question of why many people who love the Brontes and Jane Austen are also eager to read countless contemporary spin-offs, cover versions of these classic novels.
That to me is like asking how a contestant on X Factor sits beside the artists – say, Marvin Gaye or David Bowie - whose songs she or he covered on the programme.
Danas nisam živela svoj život, danas sam živela život Margaret Li. Odavno me knjiga nije ščepala kao ova.
Prethodnu knjigu napuštate sa idejama, temom i motivima – čak i s likovima zatočenim u samom tkanju vaše odeće, pa su i pošto otvorite novu knjigu, još tu, sa vama.“Da, Margaret, upravo prolazim kroz taj „knjiški mamurluk“ i osećam ga u svakoj ćeliji svog bića.
Započeću i završiti još mnogo knjiga, ali će ova ostati da tinja u meni zauvek.
[4.5 Stars]This was an absolute gem!

Margaret Lea never imagined the outcome when she, as a devoted modern, bibiophile, living with her parents on top of their book store, wrote a biographical essay,  The Fraternal Muse on the Landier brothers, for a hardback collection of essays on writing and the family in the nineteenth century.
And by opening and reading a few pages of all the books in the shelves, looking for something missing in herself, she gave all these people a chance to be alive again, even if it was only through their words.
I love the Gothic Suspense genre and this book definitely is a classic so this was not the case.
I feel that those that hated it just do not like the gothic suspense genre.
This book is a tale of gothic strangeness featuring the Angelfield family including the beautiful and willful Isabelle, the feral twins Adeline and Emmeline, a ghost, a governess, a topiary garden and a devastating fire.
I loved the twins Emmeline and Adeline, this is just a way to describe them which is written word by word in the book.
DISCLAIMER  : This is not a review. These are just some random thoughts that were skittering through my mind while I was reading this book.WARNING: The following is filled with passages picked up from the book, which may not be of any interest to anyone but me. (Yes I might have ended up highlighting more than half of the book). So read at your own peril!According to me, there are two kind of listeners of music. One who prefers lyrics of a song over its melody and rhythm; the second kind are th
If the writing, even in its simplest form is engaging enough, read it, I SHALL (having said that there a few writers whose works I would read just for their style of writing and barely pay attention to the story or the plot).Then there are books like 
After reading a few pages of the story, I realised that this time, it wont be easy for me to shelve-off this book in any of the established categories of my mind.
Do you know the feeling when you start reading a new book before the membrane of the last one has had time to close behind you?
And so began my love affair with the Gothic novel.Others would follow: Jane Eyre, re-read in an apartment in Paris during the great, dreary rains of late winter, wrapped in a quilt, drinking black tea, and, of course, as of late, The 13th Tale.
Where to begin--I loved Margaret Lea, the timid, Jane Eyre-ish narrartor who leads a very exact little life above her bookshop: dinner and in bed to read by eight with cocoa and hot water bottle, her old gothic novels with their nicely wrapped up endings, and I loved the eccentric Miss Winter, in her Mistlewaith Mannor of a house on the moores with topiary gardens, cats and tapistries.
I hate not to finish reading a book I've started, so I went on and finished it fast. Sigh. I really wanted to like The Thirteenth Tale, for one I was reading with my friend Vessey. Besides that, there was a lot in the story for me to enjoy: an antiquarian bookstore; a lonely protagonist whose best friends are books, plus a secondary character who is a mysterious, isolated writer. And some nice passages, like: "There is something about words. In expert hands, manipulated deftly, they take you pri
I hate not to finish reading a book I've started, so I went on and finished it fast.
I really wanted to like The Thirteenth Tale, for one I was reading with my friend Vessey.
Besides that, there was a lot in the story for me to enjoy: an antiquarian bookstore; a lonely protagonist whose best friends are books, plus a secondary character who is a mysterious, isolated writer.
It might be me, but the story simply fell flat and I found myself either upset to read about how abandoned the twins were (as a mother that did not come easy) or wondering about everything else but the pages in front of me.
The story is so bizarre and sad.
When Margaret is called upon by Vida Winter, a famous author, to come and write her biography she has no idea what she is in for with this woman.
The way the author weaves this tale is so haunting and it reels you right into the book.
It is an incredibly sad story, I cried.
The story is a beautiful tale even though it is incredibly disturbing at times and so very sad.
I would like to read more books from this author if they are as good as this one!
I got a lot of satisfaction from the dark mysteries in this old-fashioned tale, which makes homage to “Jane Eyre” and “The Woman in White.” It hooked me right from the beginning, where Margaret Lea is working in her father’s antiquarian bookstore in London and gets a letter from a famous reclusive writer, Vida Winter, inviting her to consider writing her biography.
As Margaret learned late in life that she herself was a twin whose sister died in her infancy, Winter’s tale is of compelling personal interest to her.
The tale is of twins, Adeline and Emmeline, living in an isolated gated estate in a family that has fallen on hard times.
And yet I cannot pretend that the reading I have done in my adult years matches in its impact on my soul the reading I did as a child.” This seems to me the perfect book for booklovers.
Setterfield is a wonderful writer and sets the scene and atmosphere.She has such a way with words and it was really difficult for me to put the book down.
However, the second-half of the book did drag on quite a bit.And this last quote is just wonderful in my opinion.“How long did I sit on the stairs after reading the letter?
It wasn't the 5 screaming stars that I was almost expecting from reading some of my friends reviews, but I did like it a lot.Our story begins when Margaret Lea, a biographer, is sent a letter from one of the most famous authors in Britain, Vida Winter.
Often when listening to audiobooks, I can get a bit lost if the narrator is a monotone and is reading all the characters in a similar voice.
They really differentiated the characters completely and made it extremely easy to follow.Would I recommend The Thirteenth Tale?Yes, it was well worth reading.
It brought back the feelings and sensations of reading the books, and others like them mentioned above, as a younger, innocent reader.
I so delighted in it, that unlike my usual habit of reading one star reviews to experience the other POV, I chose to hold on to my passionate response.
"How long did I sit on the stairs after reading the letter?
There may be imperfections in the pages but it just doesn’t get much better than this for reading enjoyment.
