https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125564.Night_of_the_Living_Dummy
#7 "He walks. He stalks..."Kris and Lindy are twin sisters. But when Lindy finds a ventriloquist dummy and names it Slappy, she starts getting all the attention. It's when Kris gets her own dummy to show up her sister that things get weird. Dummies aren't real... are they?Creepy as hell and reminiscent of Child's Play. I loved it!!!
استاین؛ مترجم: مهرانگیز نکوروح؛ ویراستار: ملیحه بهرامی پارسا؛ تهران، گل آذین، 1385؛ در 132 ص؛ شابک: 9789647703314؛ چاپ سوم 1388؛ چاپ چهارم 1390؛عنوان: شبی که عروسک زنده شد؛ نویسنده: آر.ال.
استاین؛ مترجم: غلامحسین اعرابی؛ تهران، پلیکان، 1388؛ در 152 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1388؛ چاپ چهارم 1392؛ شابک: 9789646807877؛ عنوان دیگر: وحشت در اتاق زیر شیروانی؛عنوان: آدمک زنده؛ نویسنده: آر.ال.
استاین؛ مترجم: شهره نورصالحی؛ تهران، پیدایش، 1391؛ در 171 ص؛ شابک: 9789643498269؛ وقتی دوقلوها، لیندی و کریس، از زباله دانی محله یک عروسک خیمه شب بازی پیدا کردند، لیندی تصمیم گرفت نامش را اسلیپی بگذارد.
پدر کریس برایش یک عروسک خیمه شب بازی گرفت.
This book by Stine was always my favorite. There was something so creepy and sinister about a ventriloquist doll coming to life... Ughh. It's one of my daughter's top favorites from him as well! R.L. Stine never really disappoints.
:pThe story is about Kris and her twin sister Lindy Powell who both love to play with dolls and dummies (just like a typical princess-brat girls).
Bewildered and breathless, the twin sisters started to get rid of Mr.Wood but the dummy is so strong and wicked it even strangled and killed the family dog, Barky!The ending was unpredictably scary because when they got rid of the evil dummy Mr. Wood and went home, Slappy (the other dummy that Lindy found in the garbage) says to Kris, who is going to shut the open window at their room, "Hey, slave - is that other guy gone?
Lindy took the dummy home, but soon her twin sister, Kris, became jealous and got a dummy of her own, named Mr. Wood.
In the story's climax, Kris and Lindy tried to kill Mr. Wood by decapitating him with scissors, but he simply told them that he had "powers" that prevented him from being killed.
Mr. Wood decided the girls would be made to pay for their insolence and tried to kill their dog.
However, they ended up in the construction site again after a chase, and Mr. Wood was killed by a bulldozer.
Increíble pensar que antes publicaban estos libros para niños como si nada pero cuando salió Harry Potter lo censuraron por diabólico? (say what).Vi el capítulo de Slappy y Mr. Wood cuando estaba pequeña, y aún lo culpó por mi eterno terror a las muñecas de cerámicas (esas sonrisas *shudder*). Pero es primera vez que leo el libro... Y es más espeluznante de lo que recordaba. Muñecos vomitando al estilo de El Exorcista, mordiendo niñas, sometiendo una familia a la esclavitud, diciendo insultos con voces diabólicas y ahorcando perritos. ¡Ahorcando perritos! Las historias infantiles de antes si que eran hardcore.
I wanted to read this because what better time to revisit a childhood terror than during October?!
I didn’t expect to be scared but I did expect to have fun and wow, was this fun.
I’m not going to lie, this middle grade had me on the edge of my seat and I really didn’t know how it would end.
I think if I read it when I was younger I would have been T E R R I F I E D, instead of giggling with delight and thinking it was so spooooooky.
A couple of days ago when I talked to my French Canadian friend, he introduced me to a very interesting book series called Goosebumps.
The book series is very easy for me to read in English without using a dictionary.
And plus, I can enjoy reading it.When I was a kid, I was a huge fan of 江戸川乱歩 (Edogawa Rampo).
Most of his books were creepy and I competed with my classmates who was the fastest to finish reading all his books.
Although I couldn't win, I was one of the fastest kids.I started reading a book of Goosebumps.
The book series has over 160 books.
My fourth grade students begged me to purchase a class set of the book Night of the Living Dummy, part of the Goosebumps series by R.L. Stine.
I can see why they love this book, although--sorry, kids, I won't be getting a class set.Night of the Living Dummy is kind of like a cross between Stephen King weirdness and the Night Gallery series by Rod Serling, but targeting kids.
If there is an R.L. Stine book out there that has more sophisticated language, I will be happy to get a class set for my kids.
This is my all time favorite Goosebumps book. Slappy is just so freaky man. 0__0 Still as awesome as I remember it.
Super fun read! Would've loved it if the dummy (Mr Wood) had come to life sooner but the end was perfect! Can't wait to read the next one! 4/5 stars!
Lindy wears her hair long, and Kris short.They hate each other.They fight all the time, try to copy each other, make fun of each other, and pull pranks on each other.
All the kids at school think they're funny and Lindy gets hired to do her act at a kid's birthday party.It's around this time that Kris starts getting very jealous.
But when Kris reaches over to take Slappy from Lindy: Suddenly the dummy's head tilted back and his mouth opened wide.
Now there are two dummies in the house...and it seems that they hate each other.The girls wake up to find Mr. Wood wearing Kris's clothes.
Ο καθένας μας έχει τους προσωπικούς του φόβους, τα πράγματα εκείνα που για κάποιο λόγο του προκαλούν ρίγη ανατριχίλας. Ε... οι σατανικές κούκλες ήταν ανέκαθεν κάτι που θεωρούσα creepy και τρομακτικό. Ίσως αυτός να είναι και ο λόγος που θεωρώ το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο της σειράς από τα πιο τρομακτικά. Όσον αφορά εμένα, κατάφερε να παίξει με το μυαλό μου και να κάνει το στομάχι μου να σφιχτεί, τόσο ως παιδί, αλλά και ως ενήλικη αργότερα. Ναι... τους κλόουν και αυτές τις σιχαμένες κούκλες (ξύλινες και πορσελάνινες), είναι κάτι που δεν θα συμπαθήσω ποτέ.
Slappy' a dummy, is found lying in the dumpster of a scary house by the two sisters, but this is not his story.This is by far my favorite among the Goosebumps series. It goes so predictable that you will be surprise that it's different from the things you predicted. The ending is my favorite part, no matter how old I will be, it will forever haunt me.
„Вси светии” наближава, и макар у нас да не бродят маскирани страшилища на лов за бонбони и лакомства, все пак в края на Октомври спокойно можем да се отдадем на нещо по-страховито! А първите две книжки от новата серия Goosebumps на издателство „Хермес” идват тъкмо навреме за целта! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
In cerca della bella famigliola Spauracchio d'infanzia nonché dominatore incontrastato degli incubi, il mefistofelico pupazzo da ventriloquo si è ritagliato con merito un piccolo spazio all'interno del genere horror.La storia è il solito alternarsi di bluff e falsi agguati, ma il fascino magnetico della copertina e il senso d'attesa fanno il lavoro sporco e portano a casa il risultato.
Hands up if this book single-handedly made you terrified of ventriloquism for life.*raises hand*Hands up if you will never be able to look at a ventriloquist's dummy without seeing something sinister and inherently evil.*raises hand*
picked up Night of the Living Dummy as my third Goosebumps book.
This time, we have twin sisters who try to beat each other in absolutely everything, driving their parents insane and managing to screw up quite a few things in the process.
There were a few times that I wanted to yell at them, which proves characters were well developed.
I absolutely loved this story!
It's my favorite Goosebumps book so far and it's definitely 5 stars.
It moves very fast, there are several wonderful twists along the way, and it ended exactly the way I hoped it would.5 stars.
I just saw the new Goosebumps movie and felt inspired to read some of these creepy books so I came home and looked through my Goosebumps collection. I decided to start with Night of the Living Dummy because Slappy is one of my favorite characters. I was not disappointed. It is great! I look forward to many more enjoyable reads.
I LOVE THIS BOOK!! kris reminds me of me and I love the plot, the ending... you get the picture
Meanwhile, Kris says she needs a dummy too, since she can't have her own damn interests and thinks she would be a way better ventriloquist than Lindy (Spoiler: she's not).
Eventually their poor dad buys her a dummy from a pawn shop, who she names Mr. Wood (this is an indication of Kris' amazing sense of humour).We get some scenes of dummy practice, and Lindy gets to perform at kids' birthday parties.
This sounds like a crazy dream sequence, but fortunately for us it's not.That night Mr. Wood goes full evil, telling the kids he's going to hurt their family and make them his slaves.
This book is about Kris who loves playing with dummies and one day her dad just found a new dummy for her to play with, thinking it was a perfectly nice dummy she put it next to her old one.
When she played with her dummy it was moving and talking by itself and she started being suspicious.
Then her family did a talent show, her dad was playing a guitar and her mom was dancing and her sister was showing her painting.
When it was Kris's turn the dummy insulted the family and they taught it was Kris who said all those bad things and when she tried to pull it off it would not come off.
R.L. Stine's Night of the Living Dummy is still one of the best Goosebumps books out there.
Two competitive sisters get ventriloquist dummies and try to construct an act around them.
But then strange things start happening with one of the dummies.
It looks as though the dummy is talking and moving around on his own...This book set off two more books in the original 62 Goosebumps, and then various other books thereafter in the offshoot series.
And the dummy Slappy became the mascot, more or less, for the Goosebumps franchise.Slappy does not do much in this book.
He doesn't start moving and shaking until later.
After watching the Goosebumps movie I thought I would delve back into my childhood for some nostalgic fun.
This may have been a bad idea.
Reading about them kind of made me sick.
Slappy, the famous goosebumps dummy, is hardly a background character until the last sentence of a very rushed ending and the main "living" dummy has the worst dialogue, repeating over and over "slaves, I have power!" He is just full of empty threats.I need to try to re-read some others because I really don't see why I loved this series growing up from this title alone.
Warning! Do not read this book unless you want to stay up all night enthralled and scared by the story and then pee your pants a little bit every time you see a doll even if its not a dummy and is just the decorative ones your gramma collects and keeps in a case which are still very creepy because their beady little eyes seem to follow you around the room! Wow, another gem from coveted Goosebumps series! This book is flawlessly written. So many twists and turns! I recommend this book to anyone who loves scary stories or ventriloquism!
Cover story: Ol' Slappy, laughing his face off. Of course, we don't know who Slappy is yet.MC: Kris, though it was hard to tell since her and twin Lindy are together so much.The run down: Twins Kris and Lindy find an old ventriloquist doll, then somehow convince their parents to get another one so they don't have to share, because at 12, they are incapable of individuality yet. Anyway, shenanigans happen.Cliff hangers: 7 Doomed ending: Ohhh yeah. Those of us who are familiar with the series can't wait for Slappy to come back.
This goosebumps is one of my favorite goosebump books because I also saw it on television. It was very interesting, and it was able a dummy that comes to life and scares others. I feel like this book reminds me of Chuckie the doll that kills people. It was a very enjoying book and I would read it again. I would recommend this book to people who enjoys an easy read because it's an easy book to finish.
Definitely my favourite Goosebumps villain! Loved the books when I was a kid.Slappy is probably Stines' best and most iconic creation.I wonder if they'll reprint the books again after the movie?
This one was one of my favorites in the series when I was in junior high school. A combination of Fats from the 1978 horror film Magic and Chucky from Child's Play, Slappy is definitely one of Stine's most interesting and creepy creations.
who's the dummy now?
