https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376561.Invitation_to_a_Beheading
Nabokov’s CaveIn his allegory of the Cave, Plato suggests a limit on human knowledge: that we see only shadows of reality.
It is not erroneous perception that we experience but an abundance of perception that is too great to adequately describe.Nabokov’s equivalent of Plato’s Cave is a prison cell in a fortress, at some indeterminate time in the future.
Nabokov hints at the opinion that most do when he writes about “his [Cincinnatus’s] jailers, who in fact were everyone.”But Cincinnatus is nevertheless stressed.
Among other things, it gives him time to dream, to recollect, and to write about his life.
His fear of death overwhelms even his drive to write.
And meanwhile there’s the absurdly interfering bong of the prison clock, it struck eleven times, thought for a moment, and struck once more, or it struck some unknown hour, now with banal dreariness, now with mounting exultation, finally with a hoarse rattle.Some aspects of this story reminded me of Gogol’s The Overcoat or Diary of a Madman.
In fact, more than in previous Nabokovs I’ve read, this book reminded me very much of Russian literature.
The first page reads like it should be the last: the death sentence pronounced on the prisoner.
Anyway, the reason that I can't quote this book until my fingers bleed is because the Austin library system asked for a 'break.' It's not over, but they do want some time alone, so they blocked my account and demanded that I return my million overdue items immediately, which I proceeded to do on my way home from work after finishing this novel.
“I suppose the pain of parting will be red and loud.”   Okay not better than Lolita, but I don't know why it isn't Nabokov's second most read novel here. He himself said that while he held the greatest affection for Lolita, it was Invitation to a Beheading that he held in the greatest esteem. Just check out this for an opening sentence: "In accordance with the law the death sentence was announced to Cincinnatus C. in a whisper." And there you have in the two quotes the color red, loudness, an
That could a crime in Soviet Russia too, which wanted the public and private life to be same, which effectively means no privacy, no secrets etc.
It is hardly saying anything new that people who are different (hardly a virtue in itself, but not a vice either), who don't have that false virtue of being normal, the golden mean of mediocrity in all qualities are often persecuted by society in all parts of the world - and even where they are not they do always feel persecuted -

Nabokov claims not to have read The Trial before writing this work, and I am inclined to believe him, given the limited availability of Kafka's text outside of the German language at that time (Nabokov did not read German).
. ."He suddenly noticed the expression in Cecilia C.'s eyes - just for an instant, an instant - but it was as if something real, unquestionable (in this world, where everything was subject to question), had passed through, as if a corner of this horrible life had curled up, and there was a glimpse of the lining.
" Hapishane sakinlerinin görkemli kır manzaraları, dostlarla gezintiler, aile sofraları ve cinsel ilişki gibi içerikleri tutukluluk durumu ve statüsüyle bağdaşmayan gece düşleri görmeleri durumunda bunları anında bastırmaları..." Nabokov'un Rusça yazdığı kitaplardan biri olan İnfaza Çağrı düş kurmanın dahi kural ve mevzuat ile çevrelendiği bir hapishanede idamı bekleyen Cincinnatus'un hikayesi.
Edebi çevrelerce Kafka'nın Şato ve Dava'sı ile benzerliği bir intihal söylentisi çıkarmış.
Ancak ben böyle bir intihali okurken hissetmedim ki Kafka'nın özellikle Dava'sından sonra bürokratik mekanizmaların ezdiği, hiçleştirip nesneleştirdiği her hikayede, filmde " Kafkaesk" sözünü duyuyoruz zaten.
Son olarak bir temenni ile bitireyim, umarım Lolita yerine İnfaza Çağrıyla hatırlanırsınız bir yüz yıl sonra pek saygıdeğer Nabokov efendi.
It also reminds me of this ceramic display of heads with phallic noses (ceramic Ahrtists love phalluses) that appeared to be crudely and haphazardly thrown together; but a closer inspection showed careful detailing and my initial reaction of "my four year old could make that!" (if I’d had a four year old) changed into "that's pretty cool" (the Ahrtist's blurb spoke of childhood memories of faces...Ahrtists....) Literature is like that glass and ceramic to me, where I often try to take too literal an interpretation and miss its worth.Since I can't block out the over-literal tendency, I have two thoughts on what this story means.
It's fostered a life-long love and appreciation for music, and I feel blessed to have had the experiences I've had.But I have never written a song in my entire life.I grew up loving to write, spending hours as a child composing ridiculous sports and science-fiction stories.
I've wanted to write a novel since I was 10.But I have not written one piece of creative original material since I graduated six years ago.It's not that I haven't tried.
I don't know how many New Years resolutions have been along the lines of "THIS year I'll record some songs" or "THIS year I'll try and publish something." Years continue to pass.After some thought, I realize that I'm my own worst enemy.
Fifty pages in, I feel like I've given this a good shake and I can move on.
All the rest depends on personal talent.What a wanker.I know I'm in the wild here, not kowtowing to the idea of Nabokov, but the time will come where he is reassessed and found wanting.
One needs more than intellect to make writing work, to make it other than banal.
Speaking of which, I feel like, as a consequence of reading the first pages of this, my dorsal hairs couldn't get it up with a dose of viagra now.Tim Winton, get me over this unhappy affair.
“...All my best words are deserters and do not answer the trumpet call, and the remainder are cripples.” ― Vladimir Nabokov, Invitation to a BeheadingNabokov's violin playing in the void of a totalitarian nightmare.
Invitation to a Beheading belongs among those 20th Century novels by Orwell, Huxley, Kafka and Koestler that explore the individual revolting against an absurd totalitarianism.
With a Gogol-like playfulness and a Kafkaesque absurdity and a linqusitic inventiveness that belongs solely to Nabokov, 'Invitation to a Beheading' explores the many ways the state (and society) acts to destroy or force conformity on those whose vision is different.
I find it difficult to believe Nabokov when in the preface to Invitation to a Beheading he insists that he had no knowledge of Kafka when he wrote this book.
But though these similarities do invite comparison, I can understand his frustration at the facile, reductionist use of the “Kafkaesque” label, as simply equating the two novels would be a mistake: Invitation to a Beheading is a very different novel to The Trial.
Nabokov’s novel also deals heavily with frustration, but his meaning and implication is more broad than Kafka’s.
Yet within the dream state a certain logic prevails in the discourse which lends an air of credibility to the tale: we believe that in some totalitarian state the fate of Cincinnatus is all too real and was in fact inspired by the megalomania of tyrants past in Nabokov's native Russia and elsewhere.
Nabokov peppers his narrative with nuance and his vision focuses upon a sensual reality which is both compelling and engaging: he really knows how to draw you into this dreamlike tale about the absurdity of life.
As I finished the last page of this book, having misty eyes I remembered the foreword of the book.De
The Light at the End of the Cave I can understand why Nabokov was accused of plagiarism when Invitation to a Beheading was first published. At a first view and a very shallow first reading (or, let’s not be mean and say a first level reading) it is indeed weirdly similar to The Trial either in the plot construction, the main character attitude and the theme.However there are so many major differences that save the book from being somehow a sequel of Kafka’s novel and put it on the general shelf
Like a Plato’s hero on his way towards knowledge, Cincinnatus grows tired of watching the shadows on the walls, and longs to discover who and what generated them:It exists, my dream world, it must exist since sure there must be an original of the clumsy copy.The book describes mainly the struggle within the hero (by using the motive of the Romantic double), between the survival instinct that pushes him to act normal, to integrate, to mimic the others in order to forever remain chained in the apparent world and the call for knowledge that lures him out of the cage:Involuntarily yielding to the temptation of logical development, involuntarily (be careful, Cincinnatus!) forging into a chain all the things that were quite harmless as long as they remained unlinked, he inspired the meaningless with meaning and the lifeless with life.A world where even “Socrates must decrease”, maybe unreal but not less oppressive, since everyone is a dummy, since the whole life is painted on a cardboard, a world where the appearance is taken for essence and the shadows claim to be the solid reality denying altogether any universe outside the cave.
In the foreword to my edition, he has the following comment:"Emigré reviewers, who were puzzled but liked it, thought they distinguished in it a "Kafkaesque" strain, not knowing that I had no German, was completely ignorant of modern German literature, and had not yet read any French or English translations of Kafka's works.
I love the postcoital scene in Annie Hall with Woody Allen and Shelley Duvall:				REPORTER(Looking down at him) 		I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish.
REPORTER 			Oh, sex with you is really a Kafkaesque experience.
ALVY 		Oh, tsch, thank you.
REPORTER 			I mean that as a compliment.
Očekivao sam nešto nalik na Kamijevog Stranca, i zato sam toliko odlagao čitanje (jer, uprkos date tri zvezdice, Stranca sa strašću ne gotivim), ili nešto nalik na Kafku (kojeg znam da ne bih gotivio; i Nabokov jasno u predgovoru odbacuje sve sličnosti i sugeriše da ljudi zapravo pročitaju roman), ali zatekao sam nešto potpuno drugačije.
Gde je Lolita bila palpi roman analogan šnj produkciji nekog filma, napisan rukom strašnog lutkara, Pozivnica je kaleidoskop, i u njemu se može naći sve, i ništa, jer na to se i sam roman svodi.
This was great, I love Nabokov when he`s not being so pompous in his prose.But if I hear one more person label this as `Kafkaesque` I`ll smack them good!Believe it or not, but generally I am not a fan of the absurd, but I loved the absurdity and helplessness in this novel.
I must say that the ending was unexpected from an author like Nabokov, fans may be a little bit disappointed in that respect.Anyways, if you`re looking for something a little bizarre but still has literary merit, then this is certainly worth looking into.
Others said it drags on here and there, but that`s just how Nabokov is, he grows on you like that.
Because I'm behind on reviews, I'm just going to link this months classics wrap up https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FJKAH...
I feel like I'm cheating Nabokov when I say I've read this book because with a book like the one here, it is an unending experience.
One doesn't simply read and move past it but instead is invited by the text to re-read again and again, each time displaying a different layer, which like an onion's, is peeled off by each reading to reveal newer ones still.
Nabokov here plays jump rope with modernist and post-modernist tendencies.
I'm more glad than can be that this was my first Nabokov and not Lolita, which is the usual entry point into his oeuvre for most others.
We cannot hate those who love us simply because they have imprisoned us in some way, nor should we reject the kindness of someone who hates us, just on principle alone.In one famous scene, Cincinnatus is dancing with his jailer to some sort of waltz, and though he despises the idea of dancing with his executioner, he still feels sad when the dance has ended and he is returned to his cell.
We are humans in the end, and the comforts and loves we feel are real even when they come from unlikely or unsavory places.
سینسیناتوس را بهجرمی نامعلوم در زندانی تاریک و نمور و خوفناک حبس کردهاند و حکمش اعدام است؛ اعدام ازطریق گردنزدن. وی بهطرزی غریب، تنها و تکافتاده و مطرود است. حتی نزدیکترین کسانش چنانکه باید، به او نزدیک نیستند؛ ازجمله مادر و همسرش. در ملاقات کوتاهی که با مادرش میکند، مشخص میشود که او حاصل رابطهای نامشروع است و حتی معلوم نیست پدرش کیست. مادر دربرابر محکومیتِ فرزندش به اعدام، سرد و بیعاطفه است. گریهوُزاری نمیکند. ازطرف دیگر، سینسیناتوس همسری دارد که یگانه انگیزه و دلمشغولیِ او در زندان است؛ همسری
این خیانت‌ها چنان‌که در طول داستان مشخص می‌شود، از همان اول‌های آشنایی‌شان آغاز می‌شود و رفته‌رفته حالتی علنی و بی‌شرمانه می‌یابد؛ تا جایی که زن در حضورِ سین‌سیناتوس با معشوق‌های مختلف گرمِ رابطه می‌شود و حتی با آن‌ها به رختخواب می‌رود.
با همۀ این‌ها، یگانه پیوندی که سین‌سیناتوسِ عجیب‌وغریب با این دنیا دارد، به‌شکلی غریب برمی‌گردد به این زنِ بی‌مهر و خیانت‌پیشه.سوای تیره‌روزی‌های متنوعی که سین‌سیناتوس با آن‌ها دست‌به‌گریبان است، موضوع محوری روایت، دلهرۀ مرگ است و زجری که شخصیت اصلی داستان به‌واسطۀ نامعلوم‌بودن زمانِ آن می‌کشد.
به‌بیان دیگر، پس از اینکه حکم اعدام را اعلام می‌کنند و سین‌سیناتوس درمی‌یابد که مردنش قطعی است، به هر نحوی و با هر ترفندی می‌کوشد از زمان دقیق این رویداد ناگزیر اطلاع یابد.

This was the first Nabokov novel I read, and I highly recommend it as an introduction.
Although not as iconic as Lolita or as out-and-out brilliant as Pale Fire, this book both draws you in and keeps you at a distance, allowing you into its world but not inside the main character's head-- at least, not as much as his later works.
Significantly, this is one of Nabokov's few novels (are there any other than this one?) that is not narrated in the first person.
If prolonged, thoughtful imagery and the occasional two-dollar word will hold your interest, then this book will give you one of the most fascinating endings in 20th-century literature.
I would compare reading this book to analyzing a surrealist painting; in that there can be many possible explanations for what is going on in the painting (or novel), the motives behind the painting (or novel), and what there is to be learned, if indeed there is anything to be learned.Cincinnatus, the protagonist, is convicted of a nebulous crime, for which the penalty is death, but at an unknown date.
But whereas the trial, and Kafka, focus on the absurdity of attempting to change your fate while stoically moving forward, Nabokov's novel reads more like a fever-dream.Time seems to pass in the novel, but not in conventional methods.
Livro pouco inspirado daquele que na minha opinião foi um dos grandes de todos os tempos.
يك نظر ساده بر كتابي عجيب و پُر رمز و راز:شاهكار بود...فضاي كمپليكه و وهم آلودي كه در اين كتاب خلق شده، كم نظيره... با خوندن اين كتاب دنبال حل پيچيدگيها و ابهامات متن نريد. بخونيد، فكر كنيد، تصور كنيد، مثل من فيلمش رو هم بديد يه كارگردان روس (ترجيحاً تاركوفسكي فقيد) بسازه و ببينيد!! زندگيِ سين سيناتوس زندگيِ همه ي ماست...

When Cincinnatus is finally brought out to be executed, he simply wills his executioners out of existence: they disappear, along with the whole world they inhabit.There is no denying that Invitation to a Beheading is a weird novel; often compared with Franz Kafka’s The Castle, it is important to know that Vladimir Nabokov had not read any German novels, let alone Kafka when writing this.
Cincinnatus is rebelling against the construction of this reality and the rules the people of this society observe and perhaps this is what makes him a criminal.Maybe gnostical turpitude is the crime of being different from all the other people in this reality.
Nabokov’s dad and granddad both worked against the death penalty in government in Russia.The bizarre farce… I only reconciled to after being guided to look at the book as a quite specific satire on Soviet official philosophy of life, and its intellectual background in 19thC radical circles – the materialist, scientific-determinist school of Chernyshevsky, and Lenin after him, and that lot.
Indeed Dostoyevsky (my favourite author if you didn’t know) spent his latter life in struggle against this materialist-determinist tide in radical thought, so I’m up for novel by Nabokov against it.
In fact he looks forward to the 21st century for a life 'ennobled, spiritualised'...
