https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399376.The_Knight_of_the_Swords
I can tell already that this is my kind of fantasy, where the world is not necessarily benign and the heroes have something alien and superior in their very souls instead of being just regular guys with magical powers, furry bodies or funny-shaped ears.
As you may have guessed, I am not a great fan of Tolkien, whose fantasy is far too comforting for my taste, resembling--at its best--a Hollywood-style Sherwood forest chockful of magic and elves or--at its worst--early Dickens with miniature Wookies.
It may be too early to tell, but I suspect Corum won't quite match the stark beauties of the Elric series, but then again not much does.
Fans of Elric and of much of Moorcock’s writing will notice Moorcock’s continuing theme of Law versus Chaos.The Knight of Swords (followed by the The Queen of the Swords and The King of the Swords – I think I see a trend) follows the tragi-epic tale of Prince Corum, the last of his race in a world that is being transformed and taken over by human hordes.
(Prince Nuada could be a conglomerate of Corum and Elric)Interestingly I think the producers of the Pirates of the Caribbean films may have been influenced as there are elements of this story that relate closely with scenes from those films.
Another reading: when I feel the need, I return to Moorcock, it’s like coming home.
This re-read reminded me of my impressionable teen years when I believed I was going to be a rock star; that will now have to wait until I retire.
Meanwhile I am going to enjoy this series once again and so on to The Queen...
and on and on and on.I love them all and have read them many times.
It is pure escapism and needs only to be untangled from each other as the series intertwines.Read with Zeppelin, or for a little more authenticity, Hawkwind.
The second trilogy wasn't (in my opinion) quite as well written as the first, and it was a bit more fatalistic (and that's saying something considering Corum's situation).I had at the time discovered the Eternal Champion novels by Moorcock and was snapping up about anything he wrote.
In this case however I really like it.Some rate this book a bit lower because there is a bit of repetitiveness in the story, still it's told well, absorbing and (for it's time) quite original.
This and the concept of The Balance or The Great or Cosmic Balance are tied into the larger story of The Eternal Champion...which in this novel Corum is unaware of.
4.5 Stars. Part one of the Chronicles of Corum. Great world-building that reminds me of a cross between the Conan stories by Robert Howard and the Amber series by Zelazny. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!Winner: British Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1972)
Intentionally or not, still hilarious) dialogue, the fact that this elf (ok, not technically an elf, but close enough) Corum has never ever fought in his lifetime BUT once he gets mad (like, properly mad), he just instantly knows how to wield a sword and fight like a hero, and the fact that (view spoiler)[some human (mabden in the story) lady HE'S JUST MET (while being seriously sick and mutilated and left to her care) INSTANTLY falls in love with him, makes love with him WHILE HE'S PASSED OUT FROM PAIN (ok, this is only implied and not explicitly shown, but STILL, WHAT) and loves him so deeply she can just sacrifice herself to a fate worse than death just to save his elvish ass.
Il libro è di una semplicità unica...si legge da solo, tranne la traduzione che a volte è da decifrare. Semplice e autentico, diverso dal fantasy odierno, ma ripeto godibilissimo...
it has so many faults and mistakes, I wish it was his first novel.One of the biggest faults:The writer mentions the main character as someone who doesn't know how to fight, because his species forgot the art of fighting for hundreds of years, since their last battles.
A 10 years old, talented kid could maybe write a more decent dialog!This book is full of totally pointless questions and answers, which are brought up at the worst possible moment.An example from the book:-----------------------"Who weeps, there?"The woman was old.
What kind of stupid question is that?Why would anyone ask anybody that why is she blind?It's like:(this isn't from the book, this is my example only)When the hero is standing on a hill...
I'm still not convinced that the experimental social critique and psychological disintegration of the 1969 The Black Corridor doesn't constitute Moorcock's sole essential novel, but part of my program of acquiring these covers is that I actually have to read them (though most only take a day or two), so, yeah, now this tale of swords and sorcery.
Our hero finds himself last of a species superseded by history, or perhaps superseded by a narrowing of perspective, his people becoming complacent and eventually unable to look beyond their immediate world and into the other planes that touch their own.
απλό....παραμυθένιο...ωραίο
YOU DO NOT NEED 800 - 1000 PAGES TO TELL AN AWESOME STORY. THIS BOOK DOES IT IN 143. BOOM.
عالم جديد من عوالم موركوك المتشابكة والمعقدة، توقعت تجربة شبيهة بتجربتي مع سلسلة ايلرك، ولكن عالم سلسلة كورم جاء مختلفًا تمامًا، رغم وجود بعض العناصر المتشابهة بين السلسلتين لانهما في نفس العالم المسمى مالتيفيرسمثل إله الفوضى أريوك، إلا أن هذا الكتاب كان أكثر دومية وسوداوية، المشاهد التي رسمها موركوك بقلمه أعتقد أني لم أرى مثيلًا لها.لا أعرف لما يقيم العديد تلك السلسلة اقل من سلسلة ايلرك، فرغم انها مختلفة إلا أنها مبدعة بطريقتها، وبالتأكيد سأتابع رحلة كروم كما تابعت رحلة إيلرك لأعرف كيف تنتهي.
It is different from the style of Elric Chronicles, but it is still Moorcock who talks through every single character, and both of them take place in the same Multiverse, with Law and Chaos fighting against each other.Corum's race, the Vadhaghs, is ancient and wise, but soon they must know the people who will end up with their pacific existence: the Mabdens.
We could make a theory.In conclusion, it is another novel on the Multiverse, another interesting character, similar but not the same as Elric (if we think that they both are some kind of reencarnations of the Eternal Champion, it makes sense), and hopefully another good series to read.
What even is this book?It exemplifies some of the best qualities of fantasy, with truly imaginative settings, exotic magic, and a haunting telling of the struggles between law and chaos.
'It looks like a great rock...''We will ride closer,' she said.And as they rode closer, Corum began to see what it was.
It was, indeed, a gigantic rock."While this book was interesting and often well written, I can't give it more than one star because I'd never recommend it to anyone.
The Corum series of books are probably the closest Moorcock came to writing "traditional" fantasy, but they're not really all that close.
They do share some of the same themes as his other fantasy heroes - particularly Elric and Erekose - the struggle between Law and Chaos, the rise of a younger race (Man) supplanting, usually violently, an elder, elf-like race (in this case the Vadhagh).
It is very rare, in Moorcock's works, to find the type of mentoring relationship between elves and men that is found in Tolkien and many other fantasy stories.As well as being prolific, Moorcock was also influential, especially on games like Dungeons & Dragons.
Note: Below, my review is split into two parts. The first gives my general thoughts on the book and series, and the second details spoilers and major plot points. Be warned.Part One: OverviewFirst of all, I have to say that the first few chapters of this book were actually painful to read. Just from the setting and from the events described, the book grants a sense of both urgency and complacency that makes the reader (or at least me) cringe with what happens. I cannot place this book, and the
The synopsis at the back of the book is not very descriptive, and I'd done little research regarding the Corum series prior to starting The Knight of the Swords, so for the first half I had absolutely no idea of what kind of story I was reading nor where it was going.
Near the end of the book, Corum encounters one of the gods of Chaos, the titular Knight of the Swords, and he explains that Order and Chaos used to be balanced, but after a battle Chaos gained the upper hand, banishing the gods of Order.
I read it in one sitting: it entertained me enough that I wanted to keep going, but it was trashy enough that I thought I wouldn't return to it if I didn't finish it that night.Corum is a prince of the Vadhagh (basically Tolkienesque elves), who lives with his immediate family in the isolated Castle Erorn.
Corum finds the castles destroyed, and learns that a new species, humans, are exterminating the Vadhagh.
It's a quick read.
I might read the sequels.
The Knight of Swords, by Michael Moorcock is a book that I actually have read before.
Sometime during my early years of high school, I got my hands on it.
In fact it was one of the first strings of books I read for pleasure and not because I had too for some school assignment.I grew up with profound dyslexia.
So I figured one way to improve would be the read all the books Gary Gygax said helped influence his creation of the game.
I couldn't get enough, so I quickly moved on to another Eternal Champion series, Corum the Prince in the Scarlet Robe.Read more at SFReader.com The Knight of Swords, by Michael Moorcock
Corum Jhaelen Irsei es el hijo del príncipe Khlonskey, un noble vadhagh con más de mil años de vida pero que sabe que se acerca su final.
El príncipe y su familia llevan siglos sin salir del castillo Erorn, por lo que pide a su hijo Corum que cumpla su último deseo, saber qué ha pasado con su raza y con otros familiares que viven en castillos alejados de Erorn.
Corum cumplirá el deseo de su padre y descubrirá que tanto los vadhagh como sus rivales nhadragh son razas al borde de la extinción por la labor de los mabden, los humanos, violentos, fieros e inmisericordes, algo que sufrirá en carnes propias.
This seems to be more a book for Moorock completists than a great novel in it's own right.
The stories is overladen with worldbuilding and making all the connections to the other champions of the different worlds in his novels.
On this world the long-lived higher beings are living in a state of peace and plenitude.
Prince Corum is the last of these higher beings and goes on a quest against one of these Lords, The Knight of Swords.Being reasonably short it's an okay little adventure but nothing special.
This is a very tough book to review.
The imagery this novel presented to me as a child has maintained.
In that way I am very biased towards it, and I admit that freely.The feelings conjured up from my initial introduction to defeatism and fatalism hit me hard.
The problem of course was this: I only remember the first half of the book.
Book One is splendid.
Book Two is just good, nothing more.
Book Three is well, forgettable.
Written in 1971, this novel stepped outside the box and offers some true magic, even if it is only for a few pages.
This is my first Moorcock book and I was impressed with his writing style which is both grandiose and easy to read.
I am more into sci fi then fantasy but as Moorcock writes both I was interested to check him out.
The story is a straightforward heroic fantasy where our hero has a number of adventures along the way instead of the usual A B C type plot.
The world building in the introduction was impressive and drew me in.
It was an easy read where I was never bored but never blown away.
I have several more Moorcock books to read and review and am looking forward to them.
Evocative 1970's sci-fi / fantasy, in roughly the same vein as Andre Norton. The hero gets magically transported from land to land, or is otherwise magically assisted, from chapter to chapter. Some of the lines are downright ridiculous, and others repetitive or overly emphatic-- but overall this is pretty good. A promising start to the trilogy.
I liked this book in high school, though not as much as Elric or Hawkmoon. In retrospect, this might be the best of Moorcock's Eternal Champion books. The writing is fully realized and the characterization via dialogue is exceptional, perhaps even unparalleled. Definitely worth a read or reread for fans of sword and sorcery.
The first in the Corum series. A good set of books. I believe there were six total in the series, and a couple of omnibus editions were published containing three volumes each. They are short books.
I had this book read to me as a child, and I don't think that at that tender age I could fully apreciate how amazing these books are. I recently sat down and re-read all six books and was in awe of the fast paced adventures that unfolded so flawlessly for me.
The first set of the Eternal Champion books I read. Very interesting, very tortured main character. Great fantasy set. Highly recommended.
Corum's a great hero, even before he loses his hand. Good sword and sorcery.
I find that, 30 or so years later, I like Corum better than Elric. Less emo 8)
Good Celtic mythology combines with a strong plot that's only weakened a bit by the otherworldliness of the final journey into Arioch's land. Everything before that is great.
