https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596576.The_Hot_Rock
Poor guy...when it comes to capers, heists and general sneak-thievery, John Dortmunder is the Schleprock of crime.  The man has talent and brains but couldn’t locate an ounce of luck with x-ray vision and a GPS device. Best laid plans going to shit is the central premise of Donald Westlake’s light-hearted, entertaining tale of criminal hijinks gone awry...over and over and over again. Not five minutes after Dortmunder gets released from his latest prison stint, he finds himself recruited by his
Best laid plans going to shit is the central premise of Donald Westlake’s light-hearted, entertaining tale of criminal hijinks gone awry...over and over and over again.
Dortmunder, short on cash and morals but long on talent and smarts, accepts the dangerous job and begins gathering together an eclectic and highly engaging group of skilled, like-minded cohorts.
If luck be a lady, than she be a nasty vindictive bitch who can’t stand John Dortmunder.
Dortmunder is a master thief but he never carries a gun and doesn’t allow any of his crew to carry either.
He’s your thinking man’s criminal with a morally casual attitude and talent for the work.
Fresh out of the clink, John Dortmunder gets draw into stealing an emerald belonging to an African nation.
Only circumstances work against Dortmunder and his crew and turn the one heist into five.
Will Dortmunder and crew ever get their hands on the emerald?Wow. I'd heard the Dortmunder books were good but I had no idea.
Dortmunder and crew are a well-developed group, especially Murch, the getaway man who listens to the record of the Indy 500 in his spare time.
Westlake creates a series of hilarious but believable situations to stick poor Dortmunder in.While Westlake wrote the Parker books under his Richard Stark pseudonym, the writing couldn't be more different.
John Dortmunder gets out of prison and immediately begins planning his next heist.
However, he realized that the ultra-serious Parker would never tolerate the repeated robberies so he invented John Dortmunder and changed it to a comedy.
That’s a great little example of what continues to amaze me about the way Westlake was able to carve out various niches within the crime/mystery genre.In this first book, Westlake establishes the Dortmunder universe where a variety of off-beat characters like his chatty friend Kelp and car-obsessed driver Stan Murch would become part of his regular robbery crew.
Bad luck and trouble would follow gloomy Dortmunder throughout the series.
This is a fun caper novel that was turned into a movie starring Robert Redford and George Segal.
Chapters are very fast moving, lots of dialogue and each section has short chapters that sets up the action in the final part of that section.What this book comes down to is a buddy heist movie.
The crooks are able to steal the emerald but one of them gets caught and does what anyone would do before being arrested - he swallows the emerald!
Fast moving and enjoyable, it is the first of about 15 books that feature this set of crooks.
The book had been highly recommended from other readers and I figured it would be a no-brainer - something I would read, laugh and enjoy after a stressful week and a long flight back from Charleston.
Of course, like everything that promises to be quick and easy it turned out to be far from it.
Dortmunder and his gang find themselves executing one heist after another to steal a gem.
And each heist is more over the top then the last.
I wanted more out of the book and had been expecting more.
Many people really liked the book.
“Whenever I pick up a Donald Westlake book, that’s exactly how I feel: you know it’s got to be pretty good.The Hard Rock is the first of the John Dortmunder series and is an excellent introduction to the lovable thief whose capers consistently become chaotic and hilariously complex.
Hence the birth of John Dortmunder and the genesis of a very engaging and enjoyable series of books.
John Abernathy Dortmunder is the thief whose capers never quite come off. Here, the released convict and his pal Kelp bring in a gang to steal the $500,000 Balaboma Emerald. The former British colony has recently become independent and split. The Akinzi have the stone, the Talabwo want it back. Embassy Major offers plotters reward -- but is he trustworthy?
In the past couple of weeks I read a couple of the later Dortmunder novels, but quickly “froze” that group and ordered up the first few.
(Actually I was rewarding myself for running through all my state tax calculations in the morning.) But this was a page-turner.Now, the “normal” Dortmunder novel isn’t that long (at least #2 & #3 are fairly quick reads), but this was a proverbial kitten krusher in comparison.
I haven’t read any other “first-in-series” book by Mr. Westlake so, I can’t say if it is his normal M.O., but it was very different from how other authors handle it.Like a lot of the author’s books, this novel is tied to its time period.
A serial caper story featuring newly released thief John Dortmunder - the story slightly meanders through a twisting and turning plot concerning a large valuable emerald. Dortmunder is the key planner of all the various capers and there is definitely a little bit of tongue in cheek occasionally. Wii give the next one a go
This is kind of a comic caper novel. I think it might be a well-done instance of a certain type of thing, but it didn't really work for me. Seems dated and rather flat. Maybe I just was in the wrong mood.
I'm glad this wasn't the first Westlake I had read.I gave up more than halfway through because at the point where (view spoiler)[the lawyer guy had checked himself into an insane asylum, (hide spoiler)]the story was just getting stupid.
And not really all that funny.Luckily, this series is just one of the several facets of Westlake's writing styles.
I loved The Ax, and enjoyed the first Parker novel.This series may appeal to those looking for a very light, care-free read, but it lacked substance for me.
So that's just what I did once this story got too silly.
Westlake is one of those authors that I really don't pursue enough - I always enjoy his work when I'm reminded to turn to it, but for whatever reasons he just hasn't attained critical mass with me yet. And it's certainly not due to lack of talent - this one is a gem (pun intended) of heist hijinks, and the Major's reaction to Dortmunder and crew's increasingly outlandish demands to pull off their capers is alone enough to make the book worth reading.
'Now, there's a baby that'll go,' he said.Dortmunder, suddenly suspicious, said, 'You  did  drive one of these things before, right?''I told you,' Murch said.
He kept grinning at the helicopter.'You  can  drive anything,' Dortmunder said, 'but the question is  did  you ever drive one of  these  things before?''Don't answer him,' Kelp said to Murch.
(Don't bother looking either country up...they aren't real.) Anyway, problem is, one of Talabwo's tribes worships a precious holy emerald, sort of like a revered talisman.
When the British colony split, the tribe was in Talabwo, but the holy shrine where the emerald was housed was in Akinzi.
The characters weren't really well fleshed out in my opinion and there was nothing that gave me the impression they were good at pulling off heists.
But I enjoyed the fact that it focused on the heist and not the planning.
In this case, we didn't need to hear what the plan was supposed to be to realize that something had gone wrong.The ending felt a little rushed, but this isn't the kind of book you want to go on (or needs to go on) for 300+ pages.
Entertaining crime caper, the first to feature Dortmunder, a put-upon criminal mastermind who's plans never quite succeed, leaving him to try and sell encyclopedias door to door. This one sees Dortmunder plan 5 heists in his quest to steal a valuable diamond. This book is a sort of literary equivalent of Groundhog Day, with a cast of memorable characters and lots of double dealing. Quite witty too. I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
Der feine bissige Humor war einfach genau mein Ding!
It's been a while since I last read Westlake, I had forgotten how much fun he is.
Way to motivate!Another scene I loved (actually I loved them all) was when Dortmunder was meeting with his probation officer.
Dortmunder convinces the guy he's learned his lesson and is done with that life.
The whole probation system, the paperwork, the irritation, the crummy offices, the surly parolees, by God it works!" Too funny.
Perhaps I have not captured Westlake's je ne sais quoi, but believe me when I tell you he's got something.
I'm a huge fan of Donald Westlake's alter ego, Richard Stark, but haven't really found myself to be a fan of the man himself.Lore has it that The Hot Rock started out as a Parker book, but eventually got so screwy that Westlake had to change it, else Parker lose all dignity and respect.
Thus, Dortmunder was born.
The Hot Rock works as a comedic caper, with likeable characters and humorous dialogue.
John Dortmunder and Andy kelp are enlisted to steal a precious jewel for a small African nation. It seems like a pretty straightforward job, but . . . let's just say there are some complications along the way.This is the third time I've read The Hot Rock and I enjoyed it just as much this time as I did the first time through it. Still funny, still imaginative. I could hardly put it down. If you haven't yet been introduced to the Dortmunder gang, this is the place to begin. And please, do begin.
Abandoned after 60 pages As much as I like caper stories, I'll be honest, I sorta fizzled out after page 60, when the (view spoiler)[fellow swallows the emerald after being trapped in the museum.
(hide spoiler)] It wasn't bad, but mediocre writing, and the whole vibe of the thing seemed a little too comical to be taken seriously.
The fact that it was 45 years old and a bit dated didn't bother me as much as the unbelievability to their scheme...(view spoiler)[ Driving a car laden with explosives into the front entrance of a building just doesn't seems all that humorous in this day and age.
(hide spoiler)]
I haven't read a mystery in a long time, but one summer (a very dull summer), I read all of the Dortmunder series from Donald E. Westlake because they were so funny. Dortmunder always gets involved with a bunch of bungling criminals. Westlake has a great touch with comedy and crafting foolish characters. I just borrowed the lastest one and he's still as funny as ever.
This is the first Dortmonder and it was wonderful and this series gets better and better - I own them all in hardback. And NEVER lend them out. Because during winter colds season, I start right in at the beginning and read them all again. Thank you, Donald!
Read for Atomic Book Club Crime year. Another book I never would have picked up on my own, but I am so glad I read. It was HILARIOUS and full of plot twists and also SO SEVENTIES. A blast.
Westlake introduced the consummate burglar John Dortmunder in The Hot Rock, a book he had originally planned as another in his series of novels about a hard-boiled criminal named Parker.
As he wrote, Parker morphed into Dortmunder, and a new series of comic novels was born.The evolving character of John DortmunderThe Dortmunder who appears in The Hot Rock isn't quite the same as the protagonist of the novels in the series that Westlake published much later in his career.
Other members of the gang do not appear in the books much later in the series.Dortmunder's first caper goes awryThe hot rock of the title is the Balabomo Emerald, which two obscure African nations each claim as their national treasure.
Keikkaa suunnitellaan kantakapakassa, mutta kaikki ei menekään ihan toivotulla tavalla.
Tämmöinen kreisi sekoiluseikkailu sopii melkein minkä vaan ikäiselle, kuka jaksaa lukea.Katkelma tekstistä:"-Pelkään joka hetki että tuo ovi lennähtää auki ja miljoona jeparia ryntää sisään.""He ovat kaikki kaupungilla lapsia hakkaamassa", Greenwood rauhoitteli häntä.Kieli on vanhahtavaa ja tietyllä tapaa kliseistä, juuri sitä mitä voisi odottaa tältä kirjalta, mutta muhun koominen sävy nappas ihan hyvin.Enemmänkin olisi voinut jännitystä olla.
Heikkouksia heillä ei kuitenkaan ole tämän kirjan puitteissa, kaikki hoitavat osaamisalueensa niin nappiin, että se on osin puisevaa.
Kaiken kaikkiaan kirja oli sitä mitä odotin, sillä kaipasin kevyttä ja vähän hölmöä seikkailua.
Mutta ei kuitenkaan ihan niin hyvä, kuin olisin toivonut.
Poor Dortmunder - he's hired to steal back a famous emerald for the rightful owners and comes up with a great plan.
Unfortunately things go wrong and he has to break a partner out of jail.
Then more things go wrong and the caper really gets out of hand.
At the same time it felt kind of hard-boiled, maybe because all of the gang are men, they meet at a bar and are known by what they drink, and the total focus was on stealing the rock.
Still, I'll definitely be reading more about Dortmunder and his gang.
A well-written book that I devoured just to find out what would go wrong next.
A great read from Donald Westlake (also known as Richard Stark).
Dortumnder assembles his crew and they go to work stealing the emerald, but thinks don't go as planned.
They don't go as planned many times.This book has some great inventive set pieces that revolve around stealing the emerald and they are largely entertaining to read.
Westlake really shows his flair for making technical work easily understood.The characters are well defined and their personalities reverberate through their actions throughout the book in hilarious ways-Such as one member of Dortmunder's crew making a lunch date with a airline hostess whilst in the middle of a heist.
A Westlake caper from 1970, the first of the Dortmunder series of comic heist novels.
Westlake could do dark and he could do funny; with the long-suffering Dortmunder and his pals he played it for laughs.
Because nothing ever goes right for Dortmunder, he and his gang have to pull off not one but six separate heists of the same wayward stone before they can deliver.
And of course there's a twist at the end.Lots of fun, but it strays even farther from plausibility than most entries in the series, with Westlake pulling solutions out of a hat whenever the gang is up against impossible odds.
John Dortmunder has to steal a rock six times.
Or rather, the rock sets of a chain of six heists all geared towards securing said rock.
Robert Redford played Dortmunder in the adaptation and it's such a weird piece of miscasting, but if you've only read this, the first in the series, before you've become truly familiar with the drab, downcast, put-upon little mastermind, then it isn't quite such a bad fit.
What's cooler than one or two heists? FIVE OR SIX heists! That's math.
