https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8573650-the-lost-phoebe
The sad thing here is I had the inspiration for this story, a first-hand interaction with its characters, still vivid in my memory, and I could have made myself a masterpiece out of it which may have won a trophy at the local Palanca awards for literature.But before the idea of writing about it came to my mind, I discovered here that Theodore Dreiser had already written my story long before I was even born.My story is about our farm hands, in a coconut plantation in an island, who had lived there, perhaps all the times of their adult lives, had raised children who had all grown up and had left them (at least one had died ahead of them), then they both grew old, very old.
You call that an ending?!
Wonderful short story, beautifully written by Dreiser, about Henry and his wife Phoebe.
They are a simple farming couple with three grown children who have married and left the family homestead somewhere in rural America.
Dreiser excels in setting the scenes; his style of writing, his imagery is gives a true sense of place.
His choice and use of words is succinct.
He is also adept in creating heart-felt characters.
This story is both heart-breaking and heart-warming.
I was sad to see it end, but its conclusion was inevitable.
I have a feeling Henry and Phoebe's story will linger with me for quite a while.
Just finished reading “THE LOST PHOEBE” by THEODORE DREISER. I listened to the audible version narrated by B.J. Harrison. Tormented to distraction by the death of his true love, an old man embarks on a quixotic quest to find her. A tale that is tragic yet tender, Theodore Dreiser demonstrates the power of a love that bridges the gap between life and death.
This short story is worth reading.
Very touching story about how an old man deals with his wife's death. The author has a wonderful understanding of the human mind and how grief can change a person.
This story tugged at my heart from start to finish and I knew exactly how the main character felt. I think I will feel that if my husband dies before me.
truly beautiful morbid love story. a bit predictable, but very well written.
A solemn reminder of the old and neglected poor. Gloomy all the way through.
