https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257837.Shane
Fantastic storytelling. A great classic Western. All the elements needed:- A dark and mysterious stranger- A passionate narrator- The oppression of the little people- The evil cattle Baron - Gunslingers- Clever one liners- Riding off into the sunset Even if you don't like westerns, if you enjoy a good, well-written story I think you will enjoy this one. (also, it isn't very long so it is a nice quick read)
Shane is the embodiment of the Lone Hero; the man who shares the values of civilized society, but has the destructive skills of the outlaw.He rides out of the wilderness to aid the band of pioneers and take on the land-grabbing cattle barons in a violent but satisfying bloodletting.
In 2012 this is a cliche, but ,as I have pointed out in the past when reviewing older stories, Shane is the archetype.
The man Shane is mythical because that is how children see the adults that they admire.
Good......no make that a great story.
Shane was my father's favorite movie.
Still, the film adaptation of this book remains one of my favorite movies, if for no other reason than that it was something I shared with my father.
"Of course he cares about reviews.
I find some reasoning silly and others thought-provoking, but I never take reviews to heart because they are opinion not truth.
My own father didn't like me and I turned out just fine.
This is so much more than a dime-store western and it deserves your attention.Final Judgment: Required reading.
I was prepared to be disappointed reading it again after all these years,and being so much older, and wiser....supposedly......Well, after finishing it last night the verdict is in.....I loved it again....I truly did.If you are not a Western novel fan....read this one anyway....it's about fighting for what you truly believe in at all costs,and defending your position on what you think is right.....not spoiling it for anyone....Shane is a role model,and a good one.
The cinematography is beautiful, the characters are well-drawn and acted and the tone and feeling throughout the film is great.One of my favourite films from last year, Logan, referenced Shane quite a bit and it's easy to draw parallels between them (especially as Shane is one of the great Western archetypes and Logan was imo more a Western than a Superhero film).
In Shane, which has less violence than would be allowed in any modern action-oriented film the sparing use of violence makes each encounter feel truly meaningful and lends weight to the idea, without it even having to be said, that violence, and especially killing, is a serious and irreversible matter.Overall Shane's iconic scenes, sympathetic characters, beautifully shot cinematography and deftly handled plot make it a timeless classic.
jesus christ, what a beautiful book.
i'm tempted to call it holy.
there's a part of me that wants to read it every day from now until the end of my life.Where was Shane?
I hurried toward the barn.
I was almost to it when I saw him out by the pasture.
He was staring over it and the grazing steers at the great lonely mountains tipped with the gold of the sun now rushing down behind them.
As I watched, he stretched his arms up, the fingers reaching to their utmost limits, grasping and grasping, it seemed, at the glory glowing in the sky.
Splendid little novella, one of the very few told from a child's first person POV that managed to convey the plot with the adequate doses of childish hero-worshipping while still staying realistic, to pull at heart's strings and yet manage to end satisfyingly. Memorable character, too. Why don't they write Westerns like this anymore?
I unashamedly loved this. To my mind the quintessential western. Wouldn't be too many readers I suspect who haven't heard of Shane. The story of a lone gunman who comes to the rescue of the Sharratt family and against unbeatable odds takes on the "bad guys" and triumphs.A simple style of writing that suited the story. Found this one to be a bit of a "tear jerker" actually. Not a lengthy read by any means. The author managed to convey much with a minimum of fuss. Loved it to bits. Time and money well spent.
You might be familiar with the goings-on but a true STORY, if compelling and honest, will ALWAYS deliver.So this book came as both a comfortable introduction to the Western genre as well as a comfort-food, which seems paradoxical, I know, but ...
This book is aggressively male but, surprisingly, not in a negative or out-of-touch way.
Going back to Star Trek, this story focuses on morals and a code of honor that just happens to be singularly attributed to males (the book was written in the 1940s after all).
The original story being roughly 150 pages, this edition provides twice that in contextual information concerning this stories creation, its impact on American culture and the idealistic image of an american culture it represents.This book is a must read.
A recent discussion with friends about the classic movie version of Shane made me decide it was time to read the book. I'm glad I did. The writing and the story is strong. Next time I watch the movie, I'm going to see it through fresh eyes.
I've had some fun today learning about the book "Shane" by Jack Schaefer.
I think my teacher had us read this novel for that point--that Shane had some things right in his way of life, and we needed to experience that.
Schaefer is an amazing author for a truly inspiring book for young people with a positive role model, to fight, and fight hard for what you think is right, not worrying about the ramifications of what others think about you, or what you believe in.
This novel hits that nail right on the head.I highly recommend this one.
Contains minor spoilersLoved this book from beginning to end for two primary reasons:First, Schaefer has an elegant and simple style that is, much like the story itself, quintessentially American: relatively short declarative sentences, the sparing and precise use of modifiers, and the brief and intense focus on those aspects of characterization and setting that highlight common themes and images in American fiction (but themes that are also timeless and universal).
Furthermore, Shaefer is very deliberate and precise with his pacing, his organization and his structuring of the story, so that once, for example, the issue of justifiable violence is introduced, it is always present, even when it is not written about or spoken of by the characters.
three to four stars - read this in High School when I was about 14 - loved it then - cant remember much about it now to give a proper review, but I remember liking it!!
He's a skilled gunslinger, and soon finds himself drawn into a conflict between homesteaders Marian and Joe Starrett and ruthless cattle baron Fletcher, who wants to force the Starretts off the land.
Marian is caught between the strong, dependable husband whom she loves, and the lean, handsome stranger whom she needs if she's to save her family.Recorded by Mark HoldenPost production by Nigel LewisWith music by Fernando Macias-JimenezProduced and Directed by Kate McAllThe Oscar winning film 'Shane' starred Paramount idol Alan Ladd in the title role, with Jean Arthur as Marian and Van Heflin as Joe.Although the story of 'Shane' is fictional, elements of it are based on the 1892 Johnson County War between the small settlers in Wyoming and the bigger, wealthier ranchers.
A dark stranger rides in to town and captures the heart and soul of a family and they will forever be changed. A quick(100 pg) YA read with good vs evil theme and a real cowboy feel.
What a fantastic story! I read it years ago & remembered liking it & the movie a lot, but so many books are disappointing on a reread decades later. This is NOT one. Like To Kill a Mockingbird, reading it from two entirely different age perspectives just made it even better.Yes, it's a western & the type of story has been done to death, but this 1949 book is one of the trend setters. It's so concise & well written, too. Highly recommended. This time around, I listened to it & Grover Gardner did a great job.
Much better than I figured. Would have been five stars if it were a bit longer and written with a little more adult content. The writing style was smooth, the story was interesting - I'll have to check out the movie.
I never saw the movie but after reading this I got to see it.
Early in the novel, Joe tells his wife that he's confident she is "safe" with Shane.
Does he know Shane's gay?
Did I miss something?After that, I couldn't stop reading this book as a between-the-lines MM romance between Shane and the dad, Joe. And the mom was just kind of cool with it, or maybe it was a whole polyamory thing.
I don't know what that means, but they sure were sweaty and exhausted when it was over!As a western, it was good.
A three star...I liked both Riders of the Purple Sage and True Grit much better.
As smut, it's a five star.
Joe and Marian Starrett are a breath of fresh air as far as literary couples go - respectful, hard-working, loving, strong, equally yoked and having many other qualities I'd attribute to a healthy and exemplary marriage.
And their son Bob loves and respects them, even after Shane shows up.
Shane doesn't replace Bob's parents as his idols, Bob idolizes them equally but for different reasons, and I really liked that.A gun is just a tool.
Remember that.Shane teaches Bob not to idolize him just because he's a man who's good with a gun, but because he's a man who wants to do good.
What a great little book!
To get to the point, I found this tiny little western to be powerful, slightly poetic, moving and a fast, fun read.
I loved the narrator, a boy watching without complete understanding of why adults do the things they do, and his hero worship of his father and Shane and his great love for his mother.
Read in about 1 hour--recommended to anyone who needs a great, short little story to pass an hour with.
I will be letting my 11 yo read it after he's finished with the book he's currently working on.
Saturday Dramahttp://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006qgxs (view spoiler)[ BBC Blurb: Following on from 'Hombre', last week's Classic Western, today's drama is the first radio production of 'Shane'. It's been adapted from Jack Shaefer's novel by Frances Byrnes.A mysterious horseman, all dressed in black and wearing a six shooter, rides into an isolated valley in Wyoming. Call me Shane, he says. He's a skilled gunslinger, and soon finds himself drawn into a conflict between homesteaders Marian and J
Saturday Dramahttp://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006qgxs (view spoiler)[ BBC Blurb: Following on from 'Hombre', last week's Classic Western, today's drama is the first radio production of 'Shane'.
Call me Shane, he says.
(hide spoiler)]Recorded by Mark Holden Post production by Nigel LewisWith music by Fernando Macias-JimenezProduced and Directed by Kate McAllThe Oscar winning film 'Shane' starred Paramount idol Alan Ladd in the title role, with Jean Arthur as Marian and Van Heflin as Joe.Although the story of 'Shane' is fictional, elements of it are based on the 1892 Johnson County War between the small settlers in Wyoming and the bigger, wealthier ranchers.
Good book.
This is another where the movie will probably forever more be better known than the novel itself.
In this case it's also a good movie..it happens now and then you know.
The book opens with the (almost stereotypical) dark rider riding through and meeting a family whom he befriends.
But if you think about it...this is one or the characters that established the stereotype.
So he (Shane) becomes almost a part of said family.
This novel rests strongly on some very well done character development.
You will get to know these people.I can recommend this one to everybody.
Searching my mind for various memories of the 8th grade lead me to this book.
Shane, set in the Old West, tells a story of a boy, and an lone stranger.
you got to be kidding me, was my thought when i read the beginning.Note:i seriously think the author alluded a homosexual relationship between the father and Shane(if you've the book, you'll understand what i'm talking about).If your interested in the Old West and cowboys, go ahead and knock yourself out, but i strongly suggest you not to read it.
There is always something different about seeing a story--that, quite possibly, has been told a hundred times over--through the eyes of a child.
The charged sexual tension between the adult characters and the undercurrents of social relations between the different groups in the town are masked by the naive view of the narrator.
It is a story that proves that even when children do not fully understand what they are seeing they are still the most observant creatures and can draw deep meaning from their experiences and the world around them.
A classic tale.
I always preferred the gunman on the book cover over the buckskins in the movie.
Doesn't seem like a gun slinger would be wearing buckskins, but maybe that's just me.A lot of subtext between Shane and the mother-- did he really walk/ride away because you can't live with a killing or because of her?Ultimately, this book touches on our fascination with guns, a timely topic.
It falls in with the mantra that the only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun.
The perfect western to read on my recent Colorado vacation. Beautifully written and emotional. Now I'm going to rent the movie again!
Shane byl dostatečně krátký a každý, kdo někdy seděl u táboráku zná kultovní verš: "byl to Shane..."Musím říct, že to bylo výborně napsáno a (anglická) audiokniha dobře namluvená.
"byl to Shane...", ale předtucha osudovosti mě odrazovala od čtení.Ale jsem rád, že jsem si to přečetl.
Umím si představit, jak by se mnou v mládí Shane zamával.
A dnes naopak musím docenit, jak Shane sebe-reflexivně ví, že jeho cesta je smrtící a není z ní návratu.
P.S.: Česká píseň Byl to Shane je literárním Shanem možná inspirovaná, ale jinak s ním, kromě jména a (view spoiler)[postřelení hlavního hrdiny do boku, (hide spoiler)] nemá nic společného.
Este livro é um "western" , com todos os ingredientes a que as histórias do velho Oeste nos habituaram.
Enquadrando-a no facto de ser principalmente dirigida aos mais novos, e de ter sido escrita para gerações sobre as quais o Oeste selvagem exercia um fascínio especial, pode-se dizer que este livro conta uma história perfeita.
De heróis e vilões...a eterna dicotomia entre o Bem e o Mal. Aconselharia sem reservas este livro aos mais novos, mas temo que hoje em dia, o género "western" não tenha já a "força" que teve em tempos passados.
Nunca fui muito adepta deste género, mas reconheci imediatamente a história a partir do seu resumo, por ter visto o filme.
