https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530793.The_Wives_of_Henry_VIII
The stereotypes in question are, in order: "The Betrayed Wife, The Temptress, The Good Woman, the Ugly Sister, The Bad Girl, and The Mother Figure." I should note that she does admit that of course there is an element of truth to the stereotypes, but it isn't all as presented.
I liked that too- showed there was a bit of a person behind there, no matter how hard she tried to keep up the facade.Okay, right, onto the actual queens themselves and the stereotypes:-Catherine of Aragon, "The Betrayed Wife"- Honestly, I think that it is this stereotype that is the most true.
I read this non-fiction account of the six wives of Henry VIII because my interest was piqued by the television series The Tudors and the historical fiction novels Tudor Court by Philippa Gregory.
So where better to go to now than a non-fiction account by prominent historical biographer, Antonia Fraser.
As Fraser says: “It is seductive to regard the six wives of Henry VIII as a series of feminine stereotypes...
She quotes ambassadors at the court, in particular ( and my favourite ) Eustace Chapuys, the Spanish Ambassador who provided a link to home for Katherine of Aragon, later a link to Katherine for Mary.I particularly liked how Fraser gave you a history of the women, their family connections and how they, somewhat unfortunately I think, came into Henry's radar.
Having read a book called the last queen   which details the life of queen Juana of Castile, the last queen of Spanish blood to inherit her country's throne, her sister Catherine of Argon was the first wife go King Henry VIII. I came across   when it was reviewed by a Goodreads member I decided to give it a try as Tudor history has not been high my radar and I wanted to learn more about Catherine's time in England. I was pleasantly surprised by this book as it is well written and well researched
which details the life of queen Juana of Castile, the last queen of Spanish blood to inherit her country's throne, her sister Catherine of Argon was the first wife go King Henry VIII.
when it was reviewed by a Goodreads member I decided to give it a try as Tudor history has not been high my radar and I wanted to learn more about Catherine's time in England.
I was pleasantly surprised by this book as it is well written and well researched and Antonia Fraser gives an insight into the women and the marriages of King Henry VIII without too much of the politics of the time.
(you know it's true) It's all very in-depth and informative, and I would have no reservations about recommending it to someone who wanted to learn more about Henry VIII's wives beyond the old "divorced beheaded died, divorced beheaded survived" thing.
She says that her goal is to show us these women beyond their respective stereotypes: the Betrayed Wife, the Temptress, the Good Woman, the Ugly Sister, the Bad Girl, and the Mother Figure.
Jane Seymour was a good woman by Tudor standards because she gave Henry a son and didn't cheat on him (possibly because she just didn't have enough time).
This is a work of elaborate research into and objective recount of the lives and fates of the six queens of Henry VIII.
Although I had to struggle with the innumerable and often confusing names and titles of the gargantuan cast in the presentation, this didn't thwart my desire to get to the end.The stories of the women themselves are poignant, if not upsetting (upsetting because they are not fictitious but real people).
Loved everything about this. For me, Antonia Fraser can do no wrong - at least thus far. I even learned a few new things about the wives, which I didn't think was possible at this point. Highly recommended.
Some may think that having already read "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" by Alison Weir, that reading "The Wives of Henry VIII" would be Tudor over-kill and nothing more than repetition.
However, Antonia Fraser manages to put her own spin on these famous wives and brings out details and facets of each woman that I hadn't previously contemplated.
I am not sure I could choose a favorite between Weir and Fraser.
Frasier has an easy narrative way of writing that keeps you interested in the story of this king and his ill-fated wives.
Because the story of the English reformation and Henry VIII is presented both in basic American history textbooks and in popular culture in isolation, there were some lines that I never drew between events until reading this book.
For instance, we never say much about the Puritans until they're already on the boat and headed our way - but in fact, they were on the rise in the early reign of Henry VIII, catching the interest of not only Anne Boleyn but Jane Seymour and other members of court and the aristocracy.
The Wives of Henry VIII was the first non fiction book I read about the Tudors.
From that moment the six wives of Henry VIII have become some of my favourite historical figures, and I’ve read tons of books, both fiction and non, about them.
Compared to Katherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn, the parts about the remaining four wives are brief; this is a little frustrating, but it is also true there is not as much material about them, mostly because they were queens for short periods of time.In the preface Fraser says she wants to present the wives in an objective view, disproving the common stereotypes associated with them.
It was easier to blame the women (especially Anne Boleyn) for the awful things Henry VIII did.
I have been watching the Show Time series the Tudors. After reading Wolf Hall I needed to find something else to give me more history and this was the perfect book. I found that actually the film series is in many ways quite historically accurate and some of the remarks are almost verbatim, i.e. Anne Boylen's remarks before her beheading.
the best pool reading.
Read this massive tome some years ago and unfortunately recall very little about it though I know it would have been a well researched book.
Book: The Wives of Henry the VIIIAuthor: Antonia Fraser Rating: 4 Out of 5 Stars Okay, so the library messed up on the book I wanted.
I actually wanted to read Alison Weir’s book, but it’s okay.
I have tried to read Antonia’s books before, but never really got into them.
Now, I did think that Catherine of Aragon had a bigger section, but she was married to Henry for twenty years!
Okay, they say that Katherine Parr was the survivor, but I actually think it was Anne of Cleves.
Once again, I was actually surprised at how much I did enjoy this book.
Furthermore, Fraser ties it all up very neatly by examining in brief the lives of the queens that survived the death of Henry VIII, and poses the question at the end that gives the reader some food for thought: if Katherine of Aragon had delivered a healthy son, would there have been the same type of religious change in England?
Also, I have to wonder when historians purport to know the mind of their subjects, and there are several places where the author makes judgments based on what she things Henry VIII would have thought.
Personalmente trovo che questa sia la sua biografia più avvincente, dopo quella di Maria Antonietta.Quella che racconta è la storia di sei donne (una sola regina per diritto di nascita, le altre elevate al rango più ambito solo grazie al proprio carattere, la propria avvenenza o alla propria sventura) e un uomo accecato dal bisogno a tutti i costi di un figlio maschio legittimo, un re assoluto che per trovare giustificazione ai suoi bisogni - diciamocelo - "se la raccontava".A un passo da diventare lo zimbello delle teste coronate d'Europa (si dice che la giovane duchessa Cristina di Milano, saputo che Sua Maestà era alla ricerca della quarta moglie, disse che se avesse avuto due teste volentieri una l'avrebbe regalata al re) Enrico VIII è ricordato comunque come un grande sovrano.
This was a hearty read - chock full of fascinating insights and information regarding all of Henry's wives.
Even though I have already read several books about the Tudor dynasty, Fraser's research and use of primary sources provided facts and accounts of which I had never beforehand heard.
I felt that Fraser was strictly unbiased in her dissection of each of the wives - instead of hovering under the umbrella of rumors and gossip of the time, she remains disciplined in adhering to what first-hand accounts dictate.
Each wife is given attention, but especially Catherine of Aragon, who was married to Henry for 24 years before he tossed her aside for Anne Boleyn.
Fraser goes into each of the women's rise and fall from affection of Henry VIII, and how the women related to one another.
Catherine of Aragon is portrayed as the most sympathetic of the wives, a woman who was devoted to Henry and could never understand what happened to make his feelings for her change.
Anne Boleyn was well-educated and ambitious, giving birth to the future Queen Elizabeth I before losing her head.
Jane Seymour was mild and giving, and birthed Henry's only surviving son.

This book was written about 10 years before Starkey's book and doesn't have the very latest research- (mostly documents which have recently come to light regarding Catherine of Aragon and her supposed virginity at the time of her marriage to Henry)- but otherwise all the relevant history is here as in the former.
One such favorite bit of info: learning about the "Groom of the Stool"- a position held in very high regard and coveted by many -basically the lucky guy who got to wipe the king's arse and who was usually a member of the nobility or gentry.
The wives of Henry VIII have come down to us through history narrowly defined by the roles they played in the larger story of the King's life, and most commonly remembered for the manner in which each did - or did not - survive marriage to him. Now, in this richly dramatic and singularly illuminating study, Antonia Fraser uncovers the complex and fascinating individuals whose true characters have been shrouded for centuries by stereotype and legend.
Divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived. Catherine, Anne, Jane, Ann, Katherine and Katherine. This book takes each queen and gives a full picture of who they were. It was incredibly detailed and well written. A bit of a gateway book really to the world of the Tudors.
I hated "The Other Boleyn Girl." But I'd love to revisit the era, and this would be a good place to start!
I kindaaaa read this so I’m counting it
Ho apprezzato Caterina Parr quasi al pari di Jane Seymour solo per il fatto che sembrava avere considerazione per le figlie di Enrico (sebbene preferisse Elisabetta, da quanto ho capito).Insomma, alla fine sono state tutte un po' vittime dell'egoismo e della megalomania del sovrano, chi con più colpa rispetto alle altre.Mi è dispiaciuto vedere come ci siano andate di mezzo anche le due figlie (la seconda in minor misura): non mi stupisco che Maria Tudor sia andata fuori di testa (Elisabetta, invece, ha ereditato un po' di stronzaggine dalla madre...
Unlike other books of this nature, Henry is not focused on at all - we merely see glimpses of the man he is at the time of each of his marriages.Fraser writes extremely sensitively about each of the six women - telling their tales from birth to death and using contemporary sources as far as possible.
It presents an entirely different view of Catherine - of a royal princess whom the king cast off reluctantly, but whom also did not go quietly.Another point that both amused and horrified was the reputation that Henry VIII (and, by extension, England) developed thanks to his mistreatment of wives.
We all know the ditty: "Divorced, beheaded, died; divorced, beheaded, survived." What's wrong with only seeing these 6 women in terms of what Henry VIII decided to do with them once they displeased him negates the simple truth that these women were complex, intelligent, and passionate people who were caught up in the ruthlessness of Tudor court life and the machinations of the male leadership of Europe (read the world) at the time.
Anna of Cleves remained alive and in England to see Queen Mary-her step daughter with whom she'd had a very close relationship crowned years after Henry died.
But unlike other monarchs at the time whose spouses were selected from political standpoints and strategic alliances, King Henry in all cases but Anna of Cleves and even then he liked her picture, picked his own wife based on his heart.
Antonia Fraser’s The Wives of Henry the VIII is a faithful, exhaustive gathering of information on the political goings on at the time, the religious fervor in England, and how this played into the stereotypes and backgrounds of his six wives: Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, Anna of Cleves, Katherine Howard, and Catherine Parr.
Along with this being a fascinating read, there are wonderful pictures of the king and his wives and offspring, as well as key political figures and places at the time.
Dovrebbero farlo tutti.E così arriva sul mio comodino questo libro, anche se in realtà ne cercavo uno un po' più storico e nozionistico incentrato su Enrico e meno sulle vite di queste "povere" regine, finite una peggio dell'altra.
Sicuramente le informazioni date vanno oltre la solita filastrocca "ripudiata, decapitata, morta, ripudiata, decapitata, sopravvissuta"E così scoprirete che le sorelle di Enrico VIII erano due e non una, che i sovrani di Francia sono diversi da quello della serie tv, e anche i Papi, che il re di Portogallo non sposò mai la sorella di Enrico e via dicendo.
Her detailed and nuanced descriptions of the wives of Henry VIII, the king himself, and other people in their world made me forget all about the TV depictions of the Tudor court.
In the book, we meet short, plump Catherine of Aragon, the sophisticated Iberian royal who was married to Henry VIII for twenty-four years.
We meet a different kind of naiveté in Catherine Howard, a hedonistic nineteen year-old who thought she could have her king and her lover too.
The book ends with the last years of Anne of Cleaves, the last of Henry’s queens to die.
If you are a fan of Tudor history, this is the book that will enchant and prime you for a trip to England.
It has photos of many of the important sites like exactly where royalty are buried.
I also learned from this book where King Henry VIII was buried (in St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle, under the floor near the choir) and it supplied the photo.
In fact, when I returned home from my trip I delved back into the book and looked at all the photos again, marvelling at the fact that I had actually seen all these things in person.
