https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8185014-second-variety
. "Much of the wisdom of one age is the folly of the next." —Charles Simmons "Transformers: Robots in disguise." —TV adIn the ashes of a post-atomic war where the U.S.A. has been blown off the face of the Earth (this was the 1950s, so Putin is blameless for once), a Soviet soldier is headed right towards an American bunker and is attacked from all angles by a colony of murderous spheres who butcher him with robotic efficiency.In this chilling short story, Philip K. Dick explores the oft-mooted h
—TV adIn the ashes of a post-atomic war where the U.S.A. has been blown off the face of the Earth (this was the 1950s, so Putin is blameless for once), a Soviet soldier is headed right towards an American bunker and is attacked from all angles by a colony of murderous spheres who butcher him with robotic efficiency.In this chilling short story, Philip K.
The West, which was losing the war, have developed lethal, self-replicating robots that they call “claws,” spinning spheres of blades that ambush and kill any living thing, except those people carrying radiation-emitting tabs that temporarily turn off the robot claws (yes, you can tell this was written in the 1950’s).
It’s an action-filled story that nevertheless asks important questions of humankind, questions that remain relevant in our day, when the countries warring have shifted somewhat, but armed conflicts continue and have become increasingly high-tech.“Second Variety” was loosely adapted into the movie Screamers in 1995.
They continue to fight, though there isn’t much left to scrap over and the Russians are winning until America invents the claws: robotic balls of whirling blades that attack and kill any warm-blooded being not wearing a particular patch designed to shut them down.
The tide of the war turns, and the Russians send a message that they want to talk.
Philip K Dick’s narrative is thought-provoking, leading the reader to contemplate man’s inventions and how they might prove to be humanity's ultimate undoing.
I would recommend this short-story to any sci-fi lover.
Another big thanks to Apatt for his recommendation!
Having said that, there are some surreal hallucinatory scenes in this story which depict actual events rather than drug-fueled trips.Second Variety is set in a post-apocalypse Earth that has been mostly reduced to ashes by a war between the US and Russia.
This would have been great news for the US if not for the fact that the robots have become so sophisticated that they are no longer content to operate within the purview of destroying only Russian humans.50s Art by EbelI suspect that Second Variety may be the inspiration for the Terminator movies, certainly, it is the best “robot uprising” story I have ever read, far superior to the clumsily written  Robopocalypse.
An ok short story by Philip K. Dick; definitely not among his best work. It suffers from a overly conventional narrative structure and a predictable twist at the end.
ফিলিপ কে. ডিক আমার পছনদের ছোট-গলপকার। সেজনযে তার ধারালো, সরস লেখনীর সাথে-সাথে নিয়ামক হিসেবে কাজ করে গলপগুলোর ফাঁকে-ফাঁকে ঢুকিয়ে দেয়া দরশন। সেজনযে তার সাই-ফাই গলপগুলোতে তেমন ঘটনার ঘনঘটা, কলাইমযাকসের আতিশযয, বিজঞানের জটিলতর ঘোরপযাঁচ আশা করি কম, ধারালো, সরস লেখা আশা করি বেশি।'সেকনড ভযারাইটি'-তে ধারালো, সরস লেখা ছিল; দরশন ছিল; বোনাস হিসেবে ছিল ঘটনার ঘনঘটা; তবুও গলপটা ঠিক জমল না। কেন জমল না? ওই যে, ঘটনার ঘনঘটা, কলাইমযাকস, বিজঞানের ঘোরপযাঁচ আশা কম করলেও, ভদরলোক পরথমেই এগুলোর সবকটাই জুড়ে দিয়েছেন। তারপর

The paranoiac pattern underlying this way of reasoning reminds you of that used by two young children sitting in a sandbox and hitting each other, and yet, outside the world of pacifist dreamers, there is a devilish logic behind it.PKD’s story Second Variety takes us into a post-apocalyptic future in which the Earth, as we know it, no longer exists but has turned into landscapes of ashes and nuclear rabble.
In the story, the robots leave no doubt that they intend to annihilate the human race, but even the androids in Second Variety cannot completely deny their human creators a certain kind of admiration, which does not prevent them from following their plans to the end:”’A beautiful ship, Major.
A Spind-Tingling, Post-Apocalyptic Novelette"The claws were bad enough in the first place - nasty, crawling little death-robots.
But when they began to imitate their creators, it was time for the human race to make peace - if it could!"In "Second Variety," a PKD post-apocalyptic tale, the world has been destroyed in a nuclear war.
The prose is addictive, the world building is frightening and the protagonist, Major Hendricks, is drawn as well as could be in limited space.The bottom line: I grew goose skin page after page of this tale and couldn't imagine reading it during the Cold War (a time when global nuclear winter was a genuine possibility).
To the 2000's reader, this story is predictable.It wouldn't be published today.But, in the 1950's, this was probably mind blowing.Sometimes it's hard to force oneself to read in light of that not so distant past (maybe 1700's France would be easier), but it's worth reading these classics to understand how you've got to where we are.
1953!
One of the best and scarier books I’ve ever read in one hour thirty. The second variety.The Soviet’s are being soviets and bombing stuff. This leading to a too grand scale war where most of humanity gets decimated, and yet it continues, with the Russians on the winning side. Taken by desperation the Americans take refuge on the moon and create robots to fight their war. The consequences of it are made clear as we follow an American Major down on Earth.
The story began spectacularly, and unfolded breaking all the conventions of Asimov's Robotics, while painting a grim picture of warmongering humanity. Unfortunately it ended in a rather pessimistic note, whereas it could have been ended in a far more upbeat manner.Perhaps, that's the speciality of Dick's vision.
Published in 1953, this story was fresh and groundbreaking with a you-won't-see-this-coming-twist. However, it's 2017, and the story feels archaic, boring, and utterly predictable. That's because the twist has been done to death.But Dick's trademark style shines through. Even though I could predict what would happen, I was hooked and invested in the characters. The setting was also quite interesting, indicative of what might happen if we do have a World War 3. It's a quick read you won't regret.
Read as part of Minority Report and Other Stories.First published in 1953. With the movie Screamers based on it.Not one of the best ones so far. I had to main problems with the book:1. I found the plot fairly predictable 2. The communication between soldier/robot is pretty stupid. The fact that they couldn't figure out it wasn't human.
A quick, simplistic story that succeeds mostly as a relic of an earlier time for SF. It is worth the small investment of time.
The premise here revolved around robots that developed and built increasingly better versions of themselves to the point where they're indistinguishable from humans.
The setting was at least somewhat interesting, but a lot of the details were a bit silly and unbelievable.
This story suffers from the same issue most of the stories in this collection had which is a disappointing ending, which in this case was very predictable as well.
The interactions between the characters and the actions they took, felt very fake as well.
With the somewhat boring premise, stale characters, fake interactions and predictable story, this wasn't one of the better stories from the author.
Una historia corta pero intensa en un futuro distópico. La ciencia ficción de Philip K. Dick siempre está llena de detalles que si pasan desapercibidos para el lector, complican la historia. Hendricks un soldado Norteamericano se ve obligado a hacer una misión suicida al frente Soviético en medio de una guerra nuclear en la que artefactos llamados Claws son el arma perfecta que mantiene la guerra a favor de un frente. Lo que no se esperan es la rebelión de las máquinas y un giro inesperado para ambos bandos...
Much easier to read than Dick's long fiction, and a little predictable, but not at all dated.
I listened to this short story on the Fictional Podcast. Another PKD story with bots. I’m glad that 1981 didn’t turn out this way! It’s worth a read or listen.
3.5
Fascinating.
It was as expected from someone like Philip K. Dick. It was quick and thought-provoking. I have to admit I had almost guessed the ending, but he managed to make it not 100% predictable, and that's always appreciated. Quick fun read, will continue to look into his work.
I really enjoyed the book in spite of its many flaws. I will try not to give anything away, but the biggest flaw in the book is that that person is an unbelievable idiot! A real Class A dum-dum! But also, Dick didn't put enough thought into how the Claws and the Second Varieties behave with each other. There were a lot of inconsistencies. I swear I didn't give anything away.
The planet is wrecked by war, and the Russians seem to be winning at first, but the Americans come up with robotic spheres that do their fighting for them, things out of nightmares made out of razors that consume all living things except those wearing a magnetic tab that only American troops have.
Instead, the robots begin constructing more and more intricate models until they imitate human life, though their purpose remains -to consume all living things.
I have developed this list of fairly regular expectations of PKD, and among those is not what very possibly might have been a piece of writing that might have inspired the Terminator series.The fairly interesting thing is, this doesn't feel at all dated, though it's quite old; while the theme isn't new, the cultural references and jargon are still relevant.
The fears and threats remain real.I'm surprised, and a bit impressed.
Even if the ending isn't a shock - it's utterly predictable - the story itself is incredibly rich in world-building.
The fear and tension is palpable.
The story manages even not to teeter over in to the realm of pulp, somehow.Dang.
Esta historia corta fue una completa obra maestra, diálogos perfectos y concisos, descripciones cortas y exactas, y lo más importante de todo, un contenido dramático que te deja los pelos de punta en todo su desarrollo y su desenlace, que te hace rogar por más y más conocimiento. La segunda variedad de Philip K. Dick es un libro de ciencia ficción y distopico, que en tan solo 50 paginas logró algo que, otros escritores ni pueden imaginarse con 500.“Si no lo hubiésemos inventado, lo abrían hecho ellos” (Dick, año, p. 2)
A very good short story by Philip K. Dick. For being so short, it has some very interesting twists and turns in the plot. It explores themes that are common to many PKD stories, including what makes a human (i.e Blade Runner), and humanity's creations turning against their makers. An enjoyable read.
This might be my favorite PKD story so far. I usually don't go for doom & gloom anymore, but this was suspenseful and couldn't wait for the end (in a good way). I was paranoid for the protagonist, and ended up not trusting any other characters. This is the sort of intensity that I hope I can learn to put into my work. PKD is quickly becoming a favorite.
Creo que si digo "replicante" lo digo (casi) todo. Esta historia es carne de videojuego; por lo demás es bastante predecible, revisitando las ideas de máquinas creadas por máquinas y de una posible generación post-hombre. Lectura sencilla y ligera, perfecta como puente entre obras más espesas.
It is a great post-apocalyptic story. Additionally, after this story, you can notice Steven Spielberg's inspiration of Davids in the Artificial Intelligence.
