https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35533431-the-broken-girls
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...4.5 Stars!! “Mary Hand, Mary Hand, dead and buried under land…   Faster, faster. Don’t let her catch you.   She’ll say she wants to be your friend…   Do not let her in again!” I’m not usually one for paranormal/ghost stories, but when I read the description for “The Broken Girls” I was really intrigued. I’m thrilled to say that this was even better than I expected.Barrons, Vermont - November 1950. A young girl has just gotte
I’m not usually one for paranormal/ghost stories, but when I read the description for “The Broken Girls” I was really intrigued.
They trust and depend on each other.We are given insight into why each “broken” girl is at Idlewild though chapters from their perspective.
We learn about their lives and what they’ve been through and about the mystery surrounding them all.2014Fiona was seventeen at the time of her sister’s murder.
Could there be a link between what happened all those years ago and Fiona's sister’s murder?There are so many secrets surrounding Idlewild and Fiona is determined to find out what those secrets are.
Fiona then finds out that Idlewild Hall is being restored and decides to write a story about it.
Shockingly she discovers that the renovations link to secrets that were meant to stay hidden in the past.This is an awesome spooky ghost story plus a great mystery.
It is so much more than your average ghost story.
If you usually don't like ghost stories, I still think you would like this one.
It is a Gothic suspense novel and I could just feel the Gothic atmosphere brewing.
The book is very well written and is a character driven novel.
LOVED!Hauntingly suspenseful read about a former boarding school for “troubled girls.” There’s something sinister at work in Barrons, Vermont at the abandoned Idlewild Hall.
When a journalist begins digging into the dark, dismal history of Idlewild, she exposes a web of corruption and hidden crimes.In the 1950’s four girls were roommates and the best of friends at Idlewild Hall, a boarding school for “troubled” girls.
The girls are the closest of friends and rely on each other to survive living in the repressive, gloomy, world of Idlewild.
The Broken Girls is an intelligent, well-written creepy, atmospheric read that I could not put down!
Now, in present day, 2014, someone has taken an interest in Idlewood, determined to restore the old boarding house, which only intensifies Fiona’s obsession over her sister’s death.
While the haunting of Idlewood adds a deliciously spooky element to the story, what is truly haunting is the heavy toll that losing a daughter and sister had on Fiona and her family, as well as the ever present feeling of impending doom.
While the location and Idlewood provide a physical link, it is really the power of familial love and the enduring bonds of friendship, with a little help from beyond, that brings everyone and everything together in the end.
4 Haunting Stars for  The Broken Girls   The Broken Girls   is part paranormal story, part mystery and I enjoyed how Simone St. James blended the two together. I was actually surprised by how much I enjoyed the ghost aspect of the story. The story unfolds via two separate storylines, set decades apart. At the center of each storyline stands Idlewild, a home for troubled girls. In 1950, a girl gets off a bus and goes missing. The only people who are convinced something is wrong are her roommates.
is part paranormal story, part mystery and I enjoyed how Simone St. James blended the two together.
I was actually surprised by how much I enjoyed the ghost aspect of the story.
The story unfolds via two separate storylines, set decades apart.
At the center of each storyline stands Idlewild, a home for troubled girls.
The mysteries of the deaths of these two girls with the added layer of a ghost haunting Idlewild kept me turning the pages.
I really enjoyed the 1950's storyline and found each of the girls' backstory interesting.
was a suspenseful and haunting read that I thoroughly enjoyed.
3.5*A dark, haunting novel that includes a whopper of a ghost story.
When I first sought out this book I had no idea the plotline involved a supernatural element.
In fact, the supernatural slant ended up being my favorite part of the book!
It blends perfectly into the story.The book is split into two timelines.
Past and present.
Interestingly, I was completely captivated by the past timeline and left wanting more.
Versus the present storyline, that I found more difficult to stay connected to and felt it just didn’t mesh with the feel of the rest of the book.
These novels were all cut from the same cloth, though they all told their stories in a way of their own.While so many thrillers suffer from too many ideas in the plot, The Broken Girls weaves together a handful of story lines with just the right recipe.
I highly recommend this novel for anyone in need of a cozy thriller and for absolutely anyone who has read and loved Ruth Ware or Fiona Barton, because these Broken Girls served up more twists than I’d expected and more intrigue than so many novels of the same genre, scoring an easy and strong 4 stars.
I thoroughly enjoyed this dual timeline story, I think this structure worked really well for this book.
I was totally invested in these characters and couldn’t wait to find out what happened to them.
On a side note, I was in the car while waiting to pick up my kiddos from school, and a dear friend banged on my window to scare me, and I just happened to be reading this book.
Let’s just say I screamed like crazy!😆This was a Traveling Sisters read and I thoroughly enjoyed the thoughts brought to the table by my friends.
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 The Broken Girls started off with a bang with a dynamically engaging prologue!
If you think you do not enjoy ghost stories, I have to say, this one is executed well.
The atmosphere is perfectly staged with an old school building featuring “tooth-shaped windows.” Told in dual story lines, past and present, that later converge, I found the past timeline more interesting, which featured a boarding school in Vermont for “wayward” girls in the 1950s.
Overall, this was a well-written, atmospheric, spooky ghost story, and one I enjoyed immensely.
I thought it was great!! Happy First Of October!! Mel 🖤🐺🐾🎃
The Broken Girls by Simone St. James is a creepy, chilling, and BOLD ghost story.
I absolutely loved how Simone created a mystery within a paranormal/ghost story.
I have read previous novels where authors have tried to create a paranormal feel to the mystery/thriller and it failed miserably but wow...
Katie, Sonia, Cece, and Roberta are roommates at Idlewild Hall who bond over this mysterious lady in black and the strange things that start happening at Idlewild until Sonia mysteriously vanishes without a trace in 1950.20 years later journalist Fiona Sheridan can't stop thinking about her older sister's death.
Twenty years ago, Fiona's sister's body was found lying in the field of Idlewild Hall.
In 2014, journalist Fiona Sheridan, daughter of a famous journalist, is still looking for more solid information on the murder of her sister twenty years earlier, even though Deb's boyfriend was convicted and has been imprisoned since her body was found in a field at Idlewood Hall in a remote part of Vermont.
In 1950, we get to meet four roommates, girls abanoned because they were born outside of marriage or they're orphans or their parents just didn't know how to deal with the challenges of raising a spirited daughter, especially at a time when we don't have the knowledge about mental health that we do now (and therefore it was shameful to not be sunny and agreeable at all times if you were female).
I loved these four fifteen-year-old girls.
3.5 stars!The Broken Girls was a quick, entertaining, fast-paced and atmospheric gothic mystery novel that was an enjoyable and satisfying read.
I was the only one from the Traveling Sisters that was reading this that had a problem with that though so I still absolutely recommend this novel!Update: Thank you so much to NetGalley, Berkley Publishing Group, and Simone St. James for also providing me with a copy of this book to read and review.Thank you so much to Edelweiss for the advanced copy of this book!Review written and posted on our themed book blog:Two Sisters Lost In A Coulee Readinghttps://twosisterslostinacoulee.comCoulee: a term applied rather loosely to different landforms, all of which refer to a kind of valley.Where I live I am surrounded by Coulees!
3.5 A storyline fifty years apart.
Four become fast friends, and then one goes missing never forgotten, but never seen again.
A murder in more current times, body found on school grounds and a sister who wants answers.
Oh yes, and we must forget the ghost!!The atmosphere, spooky, gothic, tense, the definite star of this novel.
Fast paced, quite a page turner, constant revelations.
the atmosphere though kept me immersed, and in fact found this entertaining, until the last quarter where it just became too muddled.
This was a sisters read, one which we all enjoyed in varying levels.
I loved the gothic and mysterious feel of this gripping novel!From page one, I was drawn into this fascinating story surrounding Idlewild Hall, an old crumbling abandoned girls boarding school.
Almost fifty years later, a local girl is left dead in the open field surrounding the abandoned property of Idlewild Hall, the school having closed down decades prior.
To find this review along with the other Traveling Sister Read reviews, please visit Norma and Brenda’s fabulous blog at:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/2...A big thank you to Edelweiss, Berkley and Simone St. James for providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review!Expected Date of Publication: March 20, 2018
The past and present narrative style works wonderfully in this book and I was equally interested in both parts of the book.In Barrons, Vermont there was a private school called Idlewild Hall for “troubled” girls.
Her older sister had been found strangled in the field by the school, her boyfriend being found guilty of the crime and currently in jail.Some things just aren’t adding up for Fiona and with the help of her policeman/boyfriend and fellow journalist she starts to dig and dig for more information about her sister’s death and also the person who has purchased the land and why.There was never a dull moment in this book, I really didn’t want to stop reading.
An eerie ghost story set in Vermont.
The foreboding rhyme of Mary Hand is whispered through the walls.
Her body was found nearby the school and she has some of her own suspicions.What is the story behind Idlewild Hall, Mary Hand, and Fiona’s sister?
Is it too late for the truth to be revealed?I enjoyed this spooky, atmospheric read and the images of Idlewild Hall that the author’s descriptions conjured up.
I wanted to know more about Mary Hand and I was expecting the end to be a bit more electrifying, but still one you won’t want to miss!
Enjoy!
I went into this book knowing two things: prep school for girls + mystery.
Upon reading, I pleasantly discovered this book is so much more than that.
It is the perfect blend of mystery/thriller with extra special paranormal goodness sprinkled the whole way through!The main portion of the story alternates back and forth between 1950 and 2014, following different girls and women in and around Barrens, Vermont, and more importantly Idlewilde Hall.
Just know this - I put off reading this book for many months.
This book wants you to read it.
What a great and captivating book!On the 1950s timeline we have a group of friends who are attending a boarding school called Idlewild Hall.
They are devastated to learn that one of their close friends has mysteriously disappeared without a trace and, to make matters more intriguing, the school grounds are said to be haunted.
On the 2014 timeline we have Fiona, whose sister was murdered twenty years ago and dumped on Idlewild.
Fiona is still struggling with her sister's murder and she becomes unsettled when she learns those grounds are being restored.
Mary Hand is something of a legend among generations of Idlewild Girls.
Anyway...In 2014, the dilapidated school and grounds have been purchased after many years sitting empty and alone.
When she learns the school is going to be rebuilt and no doubt games will be played on the very spot where her sister once lay, she gets the idea to write a story about it.
She feels the need to learn more about the place where her sister died.This was a really enjoyable read and a great book to read with the Traveling Sisters.
I hate to give it the “meh” but that’s how this book was for me. The audio is very good though. Most people enjoyed this book way more than I did so don’t take my word for it.
Interesting with such a large group we ended up in the same coulee but were split into different sides of the coulee.
Simone St. James does a good job creating an interesting atmospheric setting here with the vivid descriptions of Idlewild Hall a creepy, eerie abandoned boarding school that was like a character itself.
Simone St. James does a good job balancing a mystery with the supernatural that surprised some of us with how much we enjoyed the ghost story to this one.
Towards the end is where we started to split into different sides of the coulee.
I loved the gothic, mystery feel to this book and my only regret on this one is that I don't actually own a hard copy for my real life book shelf.Broken Girls is a chilling murder / suspense story set in Idlewild Hall, an old abandoned boarding school in rural Vermont.
I am a sucker for gothic or modern gothic style stories and throw in an old abandoned Manor or Boarding school with a mysterious past and a haunting tale and you got me from page one.I enjoyed the suspense with this one and couldn't wait to pick it up each evening and loved how the story is told in two time frames ( 1950s & 2014) which works perfectly for this story.Great characters that well interesting and likable and a couple of them I am having a hard time parting company with now that the book is over.
The girls we meet are just such girls, not wanted by their families, considered problems, destined to be hidden among the somewhat ruins of a dilapidated school that has a history of a young woman's ghost haunting its environs.
These four young girls carry secrets, things done to them that they had no control over and when one of them goes missing, their lives are irreparably changed.This book follows two time spans, one fifty years ago where we meet four of the girls at Idlewild Hall and one in the present.
I’m weary of thrillers.
I’m not a fan of ghost stories.
Sounds like a recipe for a disappointing read but Broken Girls was a pleasant surprise.
Mostly, these girls were shuttled off to a crumbling and severe boarding school to shield their parents from embarrassment and then a student goes missing.
The first few chapters truly made me uneasy and I was grateful to enter 2014 where a journalist is beginning to delve into the reconstruction of dilapidated Idlewild Hall which happens to be the location of her sister’s murder in 1994.
And exactly what happened to the missing girl in 1950?
I enjoyed this SO MUCH MORE than I expected to. Wow. What a surprisingly spooky read. Definitely going to add a million Simone St. James books to my tbr now bc I think I’m obsessed?
THE BROKEN GIRLS was an amazing book, combining many elements I love: mystery, ghost story, historical fiction, dual time periods, and crime drama.
In the past, four teenage girls attend a local boarding school for troubled girls called Idlewild Hall when one goes missing; in the present, a journalist named Fiona investigates the death of her sister whose body was found on Idlewild’s abandoned property two decades earlier.
Fiona agrees to write an article on the restoration of Idlewild when it’s purchased by a mysterious buyer.
The mystery was complicated, and I enjoyed how the well-researched historical elements were woven into it.
Told in alternating timelines from several points of view the books was still easy to follow and one that will captivate the reader on the mystery side but give chills with the ghostly elements.In 2014, Fiona Sheridan is a journalist who was once touched by tragedy when the body of her sister was found.
There have always been rumors and ghost stories flying around about the property and now with the current renovations a discovery has been made that sends Fiona’s investigation back to the past.In 1950 at Idlewild Hall four of the troubled girls that reside at the school bond together and become friends.
Last but by no means least, there is the original “broken girl,” a ghost clad all in black who shows people what they least want to see.As the novel unfolds Fiona’s research leads her to discover secrets not only about the girl who was murdered in 1950, but about her sister’s death as well.
Told from alternating viewpoints that shift between 1950 and 2014, "The Broken Girls" is a gothic page-turner that I could not put down (there is even a scene reminiscent of one in "Wuthering Heights," my all-time favorite book).
"The Broken Girls" is the first Simone St. James novel I’ve read so I don’t know if all her books are this good.
I like how radio was the thing to be cherished of the past.This book is set in Barrons, Vermont, told in the third person point of view following Katie, Roberta, Cece, and Sonia in 1950 and Fiona in 2014.
In the present day, Fiona, a journalist is writing a story about Idlewild Hall because Margaret Eden wanted to restore the abandoned school.
This book is an excellent thriller and I highly recommend everyone to read it!Pro: fast paced, page turner, thrilling, boarding school, ghost story, suspense, chilling, mystery, secrets, friendshipCon: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to Berkley Publishing Group for the opportunity to read and review.
