https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93361.Tree_House_Mystery
There are no great mysteries here. This book is a little boring. I hope to read soon my YA books in English and then buy adults books in English on the site of the Brazilian Amazon. I read this book for the third time, but now with the audiobook.
As a parent who likes to see positive role models in books, I liked how the Alden children kept reminding the Beach boys that they should ask for their parents' permission before doing new things.
I even liked that Henry and Jessie sometimes had other plans, and weren't a part of all the activities.
This book wasn't explicit about the children's ages, but Benny did say, at first, that he wished the Beach boys (aged 8 and 10) were older, which I think implied that Benny was older than they, so maybe he was 12?
So this was a buddy read with my 7-year-old daughter. She is devouring books these days! She really liked this one and it was fun to discuss with her afterwards. Not much peril here to freak her out, but enough mystery/adventure to keep her attention.
This book was the first Box Car Children book I've read for a LONG time. They are way under my reading level, but they are still fun to read. I really recommend these books for young readers who like mysteries. I do like the Nancy Drew books better, but these used to be my favorite, and they are better for younger kids.
Those lucky Alden kids! As if being a mystery-solving orphan weren't enough now they have a tree house to boot!
Of all the Boxcar Children stories I have read, thisone is only second tothe first in the series.This particular story reallyseemed ever so warm andhappy.
My previous experience with the Alden children was bringing home books on tape/CD from the library for my son when he was small and hearing some of the stories.
But a family moves in with two young boys and soon the friendly Aldens have broken through their reserve and have convinced Jeffrey and Sammy Beach that the thing their new home is missing is a tree house.While building the tree house and the kids get to know each other, the Aldens learn that Jeffrey and Sammy's dad and his brother used to have a tree house in that same tree.
This story is everything childhood should be:-making new friends-building a fancy tree house-finding a spy glass-finding a hidden window and room in an old house-discovering toys and an old rocking horse in a hidden room-helping two estranged brothers come together-a restaurant on "the old road" coming back to life -and, finally, the Alden's!Recommend for anyone with kids 6-10. This is my 2nd favorite of the Boxcar Children series.
Boxcar Children are a little hard to read aloud because they're not written well for that, but the mystery was perfect for my 1st grader and soon he'll be able to read it himself. We read a chapter a night and it kept him interested.
I liked this book because I like hide spy. I also liked this book because I like building things and high places.
I'm a bit disappointed that the Carver's didn't make an appearance and we got that resolution.
The Aldens build a treehouse, befriend some neighbors, and learn more about the history of the neighbor's house. Not the greatest but still cute.
This story is about the importance of family. It focused more on the two younger Aldens.
Great adventureFun, adventure, mystery and friendship...all things that make this story great for all ages! Loved reading this with my young boys.
I was a bit confused by this book.
Not the story, but the dynamics-I feel like there was a message, but it was so inconsistent that I couldn't decipher what Warner was trying to share.
The parents of the new friends in this book are distant...kind-of...sometimes.
I couldn't understand if this was supposed to be a negative or just an illustration of another type of family.
In any event, it was off-putting and strange.
I wasn't much of a fan of this book, though the mystery was mildly entertaining.
I like how there is a new family that moved in next door.
The Alden's now have some new friends that have moved in next to them in a very old house called the beach house.
I like how the Alden's and their new friends find a glass window at the top of the house, but can't find the room to it.
The Alden's and their new friends are building a tree house together.
I don't like that two brothers are mad at each other because they couldn't find a telescope they had as kids.
I like that the two boys can have fun in their backyard tree house.
The Allen's have new neighbors. They decide to build a tree house with their new neighbors. They find a telescope hidden in a knot in the tree. It once belonged to the dad of the kids next door, who lost it. From their tree house they see a window that they had never seen. The kids explore it and found a kid named Willie Carver lived their and his grandma sealed up the room to make sure no one else could come in.
Maya and I are doing a "grandma/granddaughter reads" during school break. We read 2 chapters a day of a designated book and discuss them over the phone. Our first selection is The Boxcar Children's Tree House Mystery. This was an awesome experience and Maya wants to continue our "club"! What is there not to like about this idea?
I read this to my boys age 5 and 7. This is the first book in the series we have read. We really enjoyed it. The story is interesting, but simple. The language is perfect for read aloud or on their own (soon.) I wanted to push through to the end, because I had no idea what the mystery was. Can't wait to read more!!!
I liked this book because I liked when Ricky saw the light in his house and it was a mystery, because nobody was staying in the house."It will take a long time to get all the wood to the creek," Ricky said.An interesting leveled story. High Noon BooksThis book did not win any awards.
Great book5 StarI love the boxcar children series, this is my favorite one out of all of them that I have read so far. I really recommend it for Boxcar Children Series.-XxKoolKatxX Videos
JEAR3-War
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
Read these books to my kids when they were little. Now I'm listening to them again on audiobook!
I love all of the Boxcar children books! Great series for kids, but fun for grown-up kids, too!
But I don't get it. Do u have to buy it? Why can't I just download books for free? I love the series, but I want to read it on my iPod for free....
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
The first book I ever read ALL on my own! No help from a grown up whatsoever!
This book I didn't really like, what I learned ??? I have NO CLUE!
THINK I read it!
