https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237903.ViVa
& the whole garden will bow)- E.E. Cummings, W(ViVa)W(ViVa)Some aging poems tripstrip &other S often same staystuckto elevate in experience Cumming's grand playful experiments.heart, wraps (earshandsmoutheyes)round poems of love&lonelinessart carved in life&death, w/mother'smeter built on gardenwalls of stars.distance falls back, graceless &hardrheumatic memories grasp earthen cupsof poetry's hotwords & fingering counts icefinal calories of EE's last entropy.
,mean-huma)now(nity unburiable fore(hurryintoheads arelegs think wristsargue)short(eyes doban hands anglescoot bulbs marry a become)ened(to issee!solong doorgolf slam bridge train shriekchewing whistles hugesttomorrow from smiles sinkingly elevator glide pinn)pu(acle torubber)tres(plants how grinho)cen(telundead thenot strollliving spawn imitate)ce(repeatcredo fais dodo neighbours re babieswhile;- I* * *oil tel duh woil doi sezdooyuh unnurs tanmih eesez pullih nizmus tash,oidough un giv uh shid oi sez.
Tomoidoughwuntuh doot,butoiguttuhbraikyooz,datswut eesez tuhmih.
if there are any heavens my mother will(all by herself)haveone. It will not be a pansy heaven nora fragile heaven of lilies-of-the-valley butit will be a heaven of blackred rosesmy father will be(deep like a rosetall like a rose)standing near my(swaying over hersilent)with eyes which are really petals and seenothing with the face of a poet really whichis a flower and not a face withhandswhich whisperThis is my beloved mysuddenly in sunlighthe will bow,& the whole garden will bow)
Poetry is often overrated or extremely beautiful. If you're seeking beautiful poetry, I would recommend this book. Sprinkled in through these pages are fantastic collections of words. When I find words like these, I can't explain the pleasurable feeling I get inside. Though some poems here are difficult to read, the beauty of others makes up for it immediately.
Some of his best writing including many of his love poems. Woody Allen fans will remember the line 'not even the rain has such small hands' from Hannah & Her Sisters. A lot of very experimental poems but each poem is such a cohesive concept that I find new delightful interpretations every time I read (or I understand a bit more of what he meant each time). Whimsical, romantic & alternatingly exuberant, witty, defiant, and melancholy. "For only nobody knows where truth grows why birds fly and especially who the moon is."
Favorites:if there are any heavens my mother will(all by herself)havei'd think "wonderyou in win ter who sitcome a little further- why be afraid-lady will you come with me intosomewhere i have never traveled,gladly beyondmy darling since you and i are thoroughly haunted byif you and i awakening discover that(somehownothing is more exactly terrible thanput off your faces,Death;for day is overhere is the ocean,this is moonlight:say
I am currently reading all of e. e. Cummings. I actually own this volume and ha e read it many times. It was quite satisfying to read our in its chronological order and in context with his earlier works.
Difficult to read, but once you hit the mid-point the syntax breaks and words flow freely and with more clarity than ever before. a good primer for cummings.
Sometimes impenetrable, always intriguing. Moving. "i sing of Olaf" on its own would earn the 5/5 rating.
As cummings poems become more obscure, I enjoy them less.
It took me a while to get into the cadence of the writing style, but once there it was a beautiful ride
