https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961291.Plague_Ship
Like with Dame Agatha's stuff, Grand Master Norton's practically has footnotes saying "re-interpret this passage, 21st century storyteller" and wowee toledo does the Solar Queen (heh) have the goods.The cover of the edition I'm posting the review to is the one I had as a youth.
The Kindle Megapack is more convenient, of course, but I still sigh wistfully at the laughable cover art from an era when we hadn't even been to the Moon yet.Had I been consulted, I'd've told Reed Hastings' people to skip rebooting Lost in Space (which was a dog in 1966 and is a prettier dog in 2018) and instead *make* an episodic entertainment of the Solar Queen chronicles.

"Plague Ship" (1956) is the second installment in Andre Norton's so-called Dane Thorson series, and is a direct continuation of the previous volume, "Sargasso of Space." (A reading of that earlier novel is highly recommended before going into this one.) "Plague Ship" does everything that a good sci-fi sequel should: It expands on the possibilities of the previous book, deepens the characters, increases the action and leaves us wanting still more.
Apparently, these little Ace books were never proofed or edited.
"Plague Ship," despite the occasional blunder, is still a marvelous entertainment, and I do highly recommend it.
Though I realized I have a TON of Norton/North books to get through, this is my favorite one to date. I read a lot of maritime history, and the worst thing that could happen when you’re halfway between to points is either a fire or a disease. If you stop to think about it, there really aren’t that many differences between a maritime vessel in the 1700’s and the spacefaring vessels of the future. Each planet would have to have strict rules to prevent the spread of other-worldly diseases. If you
Though I realized I have a TON of Norton/North books to get through, this is my favorite one to date.
I read a lot of maritime history, and the worst thing that could happen when you’re halfway between to points is either a fire or a disease.
Each planet would have to have strict rules to prevent the spread of other-worldly diseases.
I’m looking forward to reading Voodoo Planet, another book about the Solar Queen.
Jellico (awesome name) was probably my favorite character for this line alone: “Jellico's habitual distrust of the future gathered force.”	This audiobook was provided for free on Librivox.org.
A novel by the very prolific pulp novelist that, unfortunately, is seldom mentioned when speaking of golden age ScFi authors. She is pre- le Guin and Tiptree Jr. She tends to lean more towards fantasy and is not considered "hard SF", but can spin a spaceship yarn right up there with the likes of Eric Frank Russel and even at times - dare I say - Heinlein.Good solid adventure stuff.
The second Solar Queen novel, this short but action-packed little novel is full of what makes Andre Alice Norton the master of 1950’s SF; alien worlds, alien species, and men who are determined to make their mark on the wilds of space.
Like any good horse opera, her space operas take a tried and true formula and deliver a solid, fun story.
This time, they get mixed up with interstellar trading disputes, alien customs, and a mysterious illness that just might leave the Solar Queen a drifting derelict in space that will have to be forced into the nearest sun.
4.5Что мне нравится в книгах этой серии, так это динамика - постоянно что-то происходит, автор не дает заскучать и держит в напряжении.А еще это персонажи.
И остальные члены экипажа "Королевы Солнца" такие разные, и каждый интересен сам по себе, и тем любопытнее наблюдать, как они дополняют друг друга в жизни-работе вольных торговцев.Сама тема космической торговли также описывается очень увлекательно - законы, обычаи, ритуалы, товары, общение с представителями самых разнообразным обитателей Вселенной.Немного разочаровала концовка, обидно за героев, но зато правдоподобно.Читая эту книгу, я испытывала восторг, как от встречи с приятелем, которого давно не видела, так что мнение у меня предвзятое.
The second book in the Solar Queen series, a good sequel to Sargasso of space actually a little better, but both are fun reads. Well written as always from Andre Norton, not to difficult to figure out what was happening but a good original story. If you enjoy classic si-fi you will like Plague ship.
One of the Solar Queen series, these are space opera in the old school, and fun to read. In this adventure, the trading ship is stricken by a strange ailment, and unless they are fast and clever, they will be quarantined and abandoned to die. The ship's cat plays a pivotal role, an element I enjoyed.
Nice scifi "listen" for someone not deeply into science fiction. Remember, I really don't review a book/podcast. I prefer to read the podcast/book's blip then listen/read and be surprised. I liked this one. (librivox.org)
Fast paced and suspenseful; a tale that was imaginative and entertaining.
A very good entry into 50's classic sci-fi. Trading ship accidentally gets infected with an unknown pest and is barred entry into any legitimate ports. I found it interesting that Norton imagined giant corporate entities much as they are today: corrupt, rule-bending or rule-breaking, and yes, even murderous. (I used to work for Firestone when they were knowingly selling bad tires to the public, understanding that they could kill you.) Highly recommended to fans of classic sci-fi.
And, like many writers of that time she relied on characters and story arc more than wowing her readers with physics explanations.The plot for this story is good and doesn't require reading of the first book of the series to understand it.
When they finally manage to break through and get the cargo they're after, they start the return trip back to Earth only to find that the crew members are falling ill one by one.
Being a "plague ship" means not only no returning to Earth and fulfilling their trade contract, but it also means they can be blasted out of space on sight.
I really enjoyed this second installment of the Solar Queen series. It was action-packed, exciting and kept my interest throughout the whole thing. We finally got to see them do some actual trading with an alien species, which was very exciting. The characters didn't get much building up, but I am slowly learning the difference between the characters. I liked the plot of this one much more than the first book. Overall 4 out of 5 stars.
This book was incredibly good. Really, for a book written during the golden age of science fiction, you just can't get any better than this. A tight, fast-paced plot, a likable, mostly well-fleshed out protagonist, and interesting aliens make for a fun read. Andre Norton's writing is crisp and intelligent. I kept picturing a teenage boy in 1956 reading this at night under the covers with a flashlight, dreaming of the day he could blast out to the Rim planets and make his fortune in Trade.So good.
Traders! I enjoy this sub-genre (trading goods, being kind of explorers and sociologists and money-grubbers at once). This is second in a series, and now I've got to go find the rest. Solid fun, some social learnin' that isn't heavy-handed. See what happens when you let 'em have the first one free? They get hooked. It kind of weirds me out that there is a Jellico in this series, as there is a Jellico in one of David Drake's Hammer's Slammers books.
Having "read" this over a weekend, in audiobook format, while knowing nothing about the book, I thought it was a pretty good tribute to classic 1950s sci-fi... Well that's because it IS 1950s sci-fi and Andre Norton was a woman who contributed SIGNIFICANTLY to the formation of the genre. Look her up. It's worth it.
(LibriVox recording, reading by Mark Nelson) Andre Norton writing as Andrew North was a staple of 1950's science fiction. The Plague Ship was for me a great part of my introduction to the genre. I recommend this as a look into what made science fiction intriguing for younger readers at the time.The LibriVox recording is clean and well-done.
A good book, but uncomplicated as SF goes. It was a little heavy handed in places. Were it written today it would be classes as young adult science fiction. Still, it's not bad for a piece of work brought from the far off land of 1956. Most SF doesn't have what it takes to survive a half century without completely losing meaning. Three stars.
Amazing StoryAn incredibly well written story with all the detail and intrigue expected from an Andre Norton novel. Great reading! I encourage young sci-fi fans to read this and any other they can find. You won't be disappointed.
Not bad for being written in the fiftiesa good solid sci-fi story. good characters, interesting plot and story. a little predictable but still interesting. The author makes up some interesting space lingo. all in all a good book
It's always nice to read a sci-fi book which has a bit more depth than simply looking at technology and aliens, and this book certainly does that. It has a nice political slant looking at the relationship between power and opportunity, and the characters are interesting and realistic.
The technology and gender stereotypes are extremely dated, but it's still a fun read. With satellite imaging and global positioning, and what we know about radioactive fallout, some of the plot devices lose all their credibility. You just have to let go of that.
I read this as a kid and it was one of the books that hooked me on SciFi as a genre. It's a golden age space story, a great quick read. I can't wait for these books to come out in e-book format. They'd make great $1.99 pulps for summer reading.
This is the second book in this series, but the first one isn't on Project Gutenberg, so I haven't been able to read it. However, I still managed to read this one with no confusion. I did like it, especially since there is a cat. It had a good plot, and a pretty accurate ending.
Audio book as I was traveling for work. I really enjoyed this. The story was fairly strong, I enjoy old Sci-Fi every now and then. This is a free audio book, Librovox, excellent reader. I highly recommend this to someone looking for an audio book.
Exactly as the title would lead you to believe, an old-fashioned (because genuinely old) space opera about an interstellar trading vessel on which the crew is succumbing one by one to a mysterious ailment. Classic Andre Norton.
Plague Ship is another very good novel I read in the 1960's. Andre Norton used a nasty illegal competitor, interesting aliens and a hidden stowaway that leads to an unusual type plague on ship. Their ship gets branded as a plague ship in the galaxy with dire results.
I just reread this while trying out an ebook reader. I must say that I remembered little if from the first time I read it as a child. I completely enjoyed reading it again and was reminded why Andre Norton is one of my favorite childhood authors.
Solar Queen #2. Another Andre Norton example of great 50's Science Fiction.
