https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140082.Club_Dead
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Though short on substance it’s a light, fun read with better drawn characters and a brisker pace than previous books.
With Sookie as her mouthpiece, Charlaine Harris opened up the floor for the discussion of genre fiction in this latest installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series, because it turns out our sweet little friend Sookie proudly claims a self-education through none other than two of the least respected forms of the genre novel: romance novels and trashy mysteries.
The snob in me wants to snort in disdain and feel offended for liking Sookie.
Mostly because I really can’t tolerate facial hair and I have this picture of Bill with a set of horrible mutton chop sideburns a la Civil War era.Like this: http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.a...Or this: http://images.buycostumes.com/mgen/me...AAHHHHH!
Good riddance, CHEATER! Was she worth it?Too late for your vampire tears now
The adventures continue & this one breaks from the original romance into very bizarre terrain.
Still terrific enough to make me keep reading 'em.Everyone around Sookie is threatened, and she gets beat up in every single book.
She endures so much and how much time has elapsed?
Actually two seasons...
That she endures so much and the fact that the plot breaks at times, goes many places except where you think it will go (main characters can die within two pages, sometimes two paragraphs...
all is fair game!), all this is so admirable & new & rad to read.
Original Rating: 5 starsNew rating: 3 starsThe first half of this book was extremely boring and mostly filler.
I fear my love for this series has finally met the true death.
I might re-read book 4 though, just because it's Eric's main book.The writing is so cheesy and not very good, and the bulk of the story is mainly filler.
But I still give this one 3 Eric Northman stars.
Only because the action in the last half was still pretty good.
I'll always love the TV show, True Blood (until the craptastic last season).
I loved True Blood Lorena and Talbot.
Bill is not only boring, but he's a cheating asshole.
So, Bill the Cheating, Raping, Asshole gets kidnapped while he is out cheating on Sookie.
But, Sookie isn't me, or even a normal human being, because she picks C and runs off on a rescue mission for a guy who was literally planning on not even telling her that he was dumping her for another woman.
He and Sookie are partnered up to infiltrate a vampire club to see if they can get any info on Bill the Dickhead.
He actually possesses a personality and sense of humor.Plus, look:
*** 2.65 ***Parts of this book got me so angry, I don't even feel like writing a review... Here is a good one that reflects my feelings though... https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Going off challenge here for a little bitey reading with my girl, Kristin.... Saturday, March 7ReviewFirst things first, idiotic MC rant time! Things Sookie sucks at:- Picking men! (more on this later)- Being self-aware!- Not being a judgmental pratt- Wearing anything that’s not entirely tacky. - Appearing anything like intelligent. I didn’t mind this installment of the series, for the most part. I liked the addition of Alcide and while no one can out gun Joe M., I found his character rather end
Scrabble?!)And now comes the BIG GREIVANCE!!!I am spoiler tagging this for your own good, guys!(view spoiler)[ I am so motherfucking TIRED of rape being treated as this “poor” behaviour that men basically get a little boop on the head for!!
I don’t care if you are a werewolf, a vampire or Santa-fucking-Claus if you rape your girlfriend (or anyone) s/he gets to hate you FOREVER!!!
And if you touch the person you raped, in any way, ever again (without consent) I WILL hunt you down like the mangy dog you are and ensure you do not have limbs with which to do so again!
This “rape-and-get-over-it-on-the-next-page” shit is BULLSHIT!!!!!
And never mind the obligatory asides meant to indicate self-doubt: the annoying women from the novels of e.g. Raybourne and Harris are 111 percent sure of their superiority, any lack of knowledge being part of that parcel of perfection.But towards the end of the book, the reading was easier.
An enjoyable, sort of mindless read, sure.
There are parts that I find very funny, such as Sookie using her "word of the day" calendar to improve her vocabulary and the part where the Viking vampire Eric mentions that he took English as a second language in a community college course in the 70's.
The parts that annoy me are the writer's fashion sense.
Also annoying are ALL the vampires.
I much preferred the werewolf character, Alcide, and I hope they keep up his relationship with Sookie in successive books.
I couldn't figure out the attraction of him in the first place and in this book he cheats on Sookie.
Not as fast or fun a read as the previous two books in the series.
As anyone who reads multiple books at the same time can attest to, you often become more engrossed in one book and forget the other books you're reading.
I also tend to read based on my mood and I'm not in a light and fun fantasy mood right now.Club Dead probably isn't any less fun a read then the first two books but my mood has changed.
So I've been reading a very dark and twisted book series.
I'm going to take a mini break from this series just until my mood lightens.
Hooked On Books Read-A-Thon.
Things are definitely not well between Sookie and her boyfriend vampire Bill, and as Sookie heads to Mississippi to track him down and rescue him from lethal peril, she is torn between the attentions of the werewolf Alcide--and way more attention than she'd like from the vampire Eric, who is growing more and more interested in her with every book.
;)Only on my re-read through this book did I realize that this is actually one of the things I respect about this series: that it is possible in a long-running series for relationships to shift and evolve, and sometimes not necessarily in a positive way.
Treći deo serijala Prava krv, pod nazivom "Klub mrtvih" je daleko zabavniji od prethodna dva.Moram priznati da sam se par puta pošteno iskikotala :)Daleko od toga da ovo delo ima posebnu književnu vrednost, ali je zabavno, pitko i brzo se čita.
Meni je poslužilo da napravim presek između malo obimnijih i ozbiljnijih naslova.U Klubu mrtvih smo između ostalog saznali nekoliko bitnih stvari:1.
Suki smatra da je jako moralno posrnula i da treba da se vrati na pravi put što pre....koji god to put bio;3.
Vampiri imaju svoje kraljeve i kraljice, inače jako simpatična epizoda gde Suki dobija uvid u vampirsku hijerarhiju;4.
❤ 4.5 Club Dead Stars ❤ Ok soo Bill and I are on the outs!
I can’t help it I don’t like him with Sookie especially in this book!!
I like Alcide but dude needed to get his head on straight about his ex damn women had him all tied up in knots.
I like Sookie with Erik well for right now I do, :p we will see.
So 5 stars!
I just want to see Sookie torture Bill a little more..
hahaha*You don't have to like my review but its 100% my opinion, and I am allowed to have it.*
•3.5•
"They say there's no harm in daydreaming, but there is." There's trouble in paradise when Bill Compton is ordered to take on a top secret and super time consuming project given by the vampire Queen of Louisiana, Lorena. Giving him the time and space he needs to work, Sookie Stackhouse doesn't realize her boyfriend is missing until Eric Northmen and his two most trusted co-workers, Pam and Chow, pay her a visit. They also clue her in on some other interesting information: Bill hinted to Eric abo
Luckily for her, Sookie has Alcide, Eric, and Bubba (vampire Elvis Presley) watching her back, because she gets into all sorts of trouble on this trip.
Between being physically assaulted by a werewolf in the club, finding said werewolf mysteriously dead in Alcide's closet, and being staked by Steve Newlin in the process of saving the king of Mississippi's second in command, Betty Jo Pickard, things are not going as planned.
Fortunately, Russell Edginton (vampire king of Mississippi) feels obligated to help Sookie for saving his second in command, and for being attacked by a werewolf in his jurisdiction.
Opening Line: Bill was hunched over the computer when I let myself in his house.CLUB DEAD is the third instalment from the Sookie Stackhouse series and I really enjoyed this one, having finally come to terms with the fact that this is urban fantasy and not paranormal romance.
Before long the bodies start piling up at work again, after a werewolf gang member tries to abduct Sookie and ends up face to face with some hard hitting but simple blue suede shoes.Enter the ever sexy and cheeky Eric, who informs Sookie that Bill’s been kidnapped while spending time with an old flame in Mississippi.
But no, it would seem that the moral centre of these books is the concept of goodness as represented by America, Land of the Free and Home of the Brave, a wondrous country so tolerant that even Vampires can be accepted without difficulty by All-American dumb blonde Sookie Stackhouse, a woman who dreams of cooking for her man and enthralls a club full of vampires and assorted supernatural beings via a sexy dance she vaguely remembers from high school.
Meanwhile we hear much about Sookie's various outfits, her make-overs and the various people with whom she would like to have sex.
What's with Charlaine Harris's obsession with beating the snot out of Sookie all the time, anyway?), I really enjoyed reading this.The main thing I liked was actually the introduction of werewolves into the world, since up until now they've been a mysterious thing that no one really talks about.
I've always been more partial to werewolves than vampires, so it was nice for me to be able to finally see how they fit into the world of Sookie.I also really liked Alcide as a character, and hope to see more of him later in the series.
I hope that Harris doesn't allow Sookie and Bill to repair their dysfunctional relationship in future books as I would be forced to stop reading in fear of exciting my gag reflex.It was also appealing to learn more about Harris's supernatural world as details about the vamp universe remains at large, and info about shifters and weres remain vague at best, which I suspect is Harris's way of making stuff up without us being able to call her on it.
However, despite Alcide being a card board cutout of all things dull, Eric was absolutely delicious and as always, was the main cause for my enjoyment of this book.
This raises serious doubts as to whether she should save him or start sharpening a few stakes of her own...My Review: Ah, the vicissitudes of love...Sookie faces them in a very very very big way in this book.
She also has her fears about Bill's boss Eric, whose hold over her grows.Sookie doesn't lack for drama in the love department.
Now, I am not one to whinge about some smexy goins-on, but there needs to be either more or less of them to make this work.Still and all...the series is as addictive as cocktail peanuts.
Madre mía! Esto es vicio!!!! No sé cómo lo hace esta autora, pero con cada nuevo libro que leo, sólo consigue engancharme más... Na' a por el cuarto, que no tengo espera...jajaja
The third installment of Sookie, and I feel that she represents many of the best qualities of a Southern woman.
Sookie is generally content with her lot in life, which is small town life, and this may annoy more ambitious readers.
This may also be a side effect of small town life—compatible partners are of limited number and societal pressure to pair up is strong.
Every shift that Sookie misses makes it harder to meet her financial obligations, a realistic aspect of the novel that I can appreciate as a single, working woman.
Sex and blood and silly fun.
I always love to see Alcide.
I don't know if I like him more than Sam but pretty sure I do.
Also I think Sookie is smart for rescinding the invitations of Bill and Eric at the end of this one.
___________________________________________________________I feel like Sookie is always the one to get the brunt of everything.
And let’s talk about Alcide!!!!
But for real he needs to get his shit together with his ex, I mean hes like a “puppy” (Pun Intended!) Overall this was a good book, easy read for me and some of the characters are growing on me, like Pam!
I'm quite torn about this series since, while I like the stories a lot and I'm curious about what'll happen next, I can't stand very much 2 of the major characters: Sookie & Bill.
First of all Eric that I liked from the start and that I find a very interesting character with his complex personality (moreover he's HOT!!!), then his two sidekicks Pam & Chow who at least have some sort of self control in front of Sookie's "charm"...cause I don't understand why all the guys fall in love/lust with her (and maybe i'm a little jelous too)!
Out of obligation to save the man she loves, and in order to give him a piece of her mind, she teams up with Eric Northman to launch a daring rescue.
Even though she was battered and bruised by the end, I feel like Sookie came out on top.Eric and Alcide were allowed more time in the book than Bill, which is not a bad thing.
I feel like Bill babies Sookie a bit, and is even shocked when she uses swear words or shoots him the bird.
Eric and Alcide seem to accept her a bit more for what she is.
Club Dead is the best in the series and you can tell that Harris is beginning to work through some of the weaknesses that I've noted in the first two books.
One thing that Harris has done right is to realize that, once the star-crossed lovers finally get together, the audience's interest begins to wane.
In Dead Until Dark, we have that tension between Sookie and Bill.
Instead, they appear to be average people who just happen to--surprise!--be vampires, werewolves, shifters, telepaths, etc.My one irritant: the means by which Harris severed the relationship between Sookie and Bill.
Lately, her boyfriend Bill seems to be completely engrossed in the computer project he has taken on for the (vampire) Queen of Louisiana, leaving Sookie bored and frustrated.
hopefully not permanently dead!) boyfriend.
The ending leaves Sookie’s relationship with Bill very much up in the air, although there are plenty of males willing to take his place.
(In the case of Steele's books, at least on screen the characters become 3 dimensional).
But in the case of the Sookie Stackhouse books, I am going to make another exception to the rule.The HBO series True Blood in raunchy, violent and vulgar, but it is also fabulously entertaining.
And by introducing other 3 dimensional characters and other plot lines it doesn't force Sookie to carry the whole story.
