https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7488244-unearthly
Honestly, after reading at least one of the following books - Hush, Hush, Halo, Fallen - do you really believe there is a good paranormal YA romance about angels out there?
And God's place in the story is also carefully written, avoiding being preachy (for non-believers) or blasphemous (for those who believe).Unearthly might not be one of the books that I recommend to anyone who would listen (like I do with Lips Touch: Three Times or Melina Marchetta's novels) and that I am in awe of.
Got to rate a 5 for my own book!
Unearthly will make you forget all about those sad, pathetic excuses for a book about angels.
Unearthly tells the story of a 16 year-old girl, Clara, who is 1/4 part angel-blood.
She is going to save this dude and they are going to fall in love, yada, yada, yada." And just when you're feeling really clever for single-handedly predicting the outcome of the book, Cynthia Hand shatters your preconceptions.
Anywho....In conclusion, it pains me to think this book will be compared to Halo, Fallen and Hush, Hush.
Enjoy!Once upon a time there was a girl who loved life.
The supernatural aspects are well-balanced by a solid grounding in Clara's day to day life as a teenager with excellent descriptions of school projects, relationships with her friends and her brother, and especially her conflicted relationship with her extraordinary mother.
I appreciate the unusual choice to wait until much later in the book to get things really started on the dating front, as you've already gotten to know Clara pretty well by this point *and* it's in the right context of her life.
An excellent start to a what should be an excellent series.This review also appears in The Midnight Garden.
I always feel a little bad when I disagree with the majority about a book, like there must be something I'm missing or I obviously didn't 'get' it. I do understand why a lot of people enjoyed Unearthly and there were parts I liked too... but I still wasn't blown away. As far as young adult stories about angels go, this is probably one of the best - only, that's not really saying much. I found the book okay in many ways, I don't have a huge rant to make about girls who are obsessed with boys ove
As far as young adult stories about angels go, this is probably one of the best - only, that's not really saying much.
As it happens, I was hyped up on all the rave reviews, even from some of my hardest-to-please friends and I kept reading on and on and waiting for the plot or characters to grab me so I'd think "yes, I definitely see why everyone loves this!" but it never happened that way.
I wanted very much to like it, I don't know if my expectations were too high but I obviously missed what makes this book so special.
Thanks for the push, Jess! Tetons and Yellowstone, cowboys, log houses, swimming in rivers, boy/girl twins! NOMNOMNOM. I didn't even give a crap that this book is about angels. I loved it:)
Tucker and Clara's relationship took a forefront in the second-half of the novel and I enjoyed how it was never rushed and it grew through conversation and the two spending time with each other.So, really, there's a lot to love about this book: (1) Original/Unique/New take on angel lore (2) No Missing Parent Syndrome (3) Quite realistic emotions (4) One heart-warming romance that grows through conversation.
I believe that this is primarily due to the order in which I read my angel books --> (1) Hush, Hush (2) Daughter of Smoke and Bone (3) Angelfall (4) Shadows (5) Unearthly <-- Do you see a problem here?
Yes, Clara and Tucker  did  like each other, but love?
It's like a big glowy hand with the word "FORESHADOWING" tattooed all over it reaches out of the book and punches you repeatedly in the face."OMG Christian is gorgeous.""OMG Christian is a god.""OMG for some reason Christian can't be with Kay.""OMG Christian is inexplicably drawn to Clara.""OMG Christian is important for some UNKNOWN reason." (hide spoiler)]Oh, and another thing.
No one was TSTL, and though Tucker and I had our ups and downs (and ended on kind of a "we're okay" note) I thought he was a pretty decent, wholesome love interest.
Lovely characters, some good pacing, and though the climax was kind of irritating, all in all it was pretty darn enjoyable.
“I'm looking at you. Why are you always trying to hide how pretty you are?”  I've been thinking about my rating of this book for two hours, and it's precariously between 1 and 2 stars since the moment I finished it. I know you're wanting to beat the crap out of me right now for giving this book just two stars. How dare I ? Please, just let me explain, and if you're not satisfied with the answers after that, you can slap my face as hard as you want. I'll let you. “Hey, Carrots," he says.” Uneart
I know you're wanting to beat the crap out of me right now for giving this book just two stars.
Although I didn't like Clara, for her voice being flat and quite boring when she tries to narrate her own story in each chapter.
I just couldn't feel that connection to the characters and the story through this book.
The whole story is wrapped up after excruciate pain I have endured, it kept pushing me away from liking the book wholeheartedly.
Now I'm unsure whether I should read the next one or not for what pains me seriously in this book, I think I can't do it again.
Unearthly is the only published YA novel featuring angels that doesn't make me want to hunt down the author so I can punch him/her in the face repeatedly.
It's a real (more importantly healthy) teenage romance wherein the characters actually talk to one another, get to know one another before falling in love, or even liking each other for that matter.
You know, the guy everyone liked not because he was the hottest or richest, in fact he probably wasn't, but because he was funny, charismatic and just overall likable despite his flaws (though, yeah, it didn't hurt that he was good looking).
Sigh. I like Tucker and his cowboy hat. Having images of Kevin Bacon in his Footloose days for some reason while reading this.
When the fire from her vision finally ignites, will Clara be ready to face her destiny?Unearthly is a moving tale of love and fate, and the struggle between following the rules and following your heart.Now, if you're like me, and have read too many terrible YA PNRs to count, this blurb pretty much represents your worst nightmare.
I actually like Clara and Christian and Tucker, none of whom are too good to be true, and I'm looking forward to seeing what their story is going to be.

Only read the underlined parts:Unearthly's all about earth stuff.
Like angels.
I'm evil like a devil.
I am evil like a G6.
This book was about cybernetic butterflies.
And if you don't already know that you must be living under a rock.
I know a worm.
There are no worms in this book but Clara Gardner is part angel!
Maybe he knows where to find some worms.
Cowboys should know something about worms.
I know: I'm evil.
But there is an EVIL angel after Clara.
Angels can't be evil.
Yes, angels can definitely be evil.
You should read this book.
Believing that these visions are tied to her "purpose"---the one thing all angel-bloods are charged with accomplishing while on this earth---she goes in search of this unknown boy with her family and this leads her to Teton County, Wyoming, the place where she believes she'll find her charge and fulfill her purpose.I'd have to say that one of my favorite things about Unearthly is its writing.
Because this fact made way for Tucker, a character who you only get to see a few glimpses of until this point in the novel.
I feel it only fair to warn you guys that I am involved in a one-sided fictional relationship with Cynthia Hand.
In which we spend our evenings sipping martinis and laughing hysterically at the craptasticness of all the recent angel novels, while Jericho Barrons kneels at my side sporting a Galactica flight suit and feeding me chocolate-dipped cherries.(Apparently, my fantasies have a knack for getting out of control at times.
...and Cynthia Hand can get back to drinking the blood of virgins from the hoof of a Pterodactyl.
It really felt like the beginning to every other paranormal romance out there:- Protagonist (Clara) is supernatural––part angel, to be specific.- She has a prophetic dream about a hawt guy in a burning forest.
So if you don't want any spoilers at all, maybe you should skip this section.Anyway, believe it or not, Clara did not actually fall in love with Christian.
GO CLARA'S MOM.The ending blew my mind.Once I started getting to the end of this book, I had no idea how Ms. Hand was going to finish it.
I *had* to know what happened next and my god the amount of times I screamed at the book for the girl to HOOK UP WITH THE GUY was so mind boggling.
If you were looking for some quality book with angels in it, I think you might have just found it.I can't tell you how much I loved this book.
She already knows she's part angel in this book so there's no slow burn of her finding out her deep dark origins which would normally already be obvious from the beginning.
I love that while she's blessed with good looks, an ability to do things just right, and what have you she's not perfect.
This isn't a story of a girl discovering an she's part angel...
even though I initially thought it was because the synopsis I read said "When Clara Gardner leans she's part angel...." at least the one above says she "recently learned"...
Yes, she's recently discovered she's an angel, but I think the novel is about much more than that.
And if her descriptions of Wyoming do not make you want to pack a bag and jet-set to this beautiful area, I think you might be a little bit crazy.Clara is a character you are going to like.
Miss Hand's writing is quite good, I also like how she described the Northern American countryside scenery, but the plot, characters, romance and angel mythology she had created are so very flat and poorly constructed that I'm very disappointed.Clara is our heroine and the whole book is narrated with her fist-person POV without any break, which means we get to hear her thoughts and see things through her eyes ALWAYS but oh boy, Clara's voice is so uninteresting, she barely shows curiosity about her part-angel's blondline and the supernatural abilities it entailed.
Maybe it was because I had low expectations, or because I don't read this genre very often, or maybe I just like angel books, but I kind of loved this??
It stumbles a few times (love interest perpetuates the idea that "if a boy is mean to you that means he actually likes you!" and there's some slut shaming) but I want to continue the series.Things that may sway whether you would like this or not:-Love triangle.-Lots of Twilight vibes.
No watching people sleep, but it's a new kid in school is a paranormal being mysteriously drawn to a human kind of story - but we're following the paranormal character in this case.Potential triggers: Very brief, non-detailed mention of rape.
Slur toward Romani people.
Overall, I thought the story didn’t focus enough on the paranormal aspect of the book, it just felt like a background for the plot and I was never really awed or fascinated by it.
The romance was definitely dominant in this first book and was the main focus of the story, which normally I wouldn’t mind because I love romance in books, but I like it better when it’s mixed equally with a strong paranormal or fantasy world and plot, which wasn’t really the case here.
Unearthly has an original plot, interesting characters, swoon worthy crush and overall is a pleasure to read.Cynthia Hand's writing was just easy to read.
Sometimes with angel concepts the history can be complex and hard to understand but this was effortless to follow.Now to my favourite part of this book, the characters and that is what drives this story.
Tucker (~swoons~, sorry but every time he is mentioned that happens) is a crush worthy male character.
I adored the playful banter aka flirting between Clara and Tucker (~swoons~), it provided plenty of awwww moments.
I know that I have just mentioned two guys so therefore it equals love triangle but do not fear.
(view spoiler)[I’m majorly worried for book two though.
(hide spoiler)] I think that this is the perfect book to leave laying around for your teen, who has fallen in love with the paranormal genre, but wants something a little bit more mature than the usual fare.
(view spoiler)[Clara’s mother’s “exhaustion” at the end was a little too convenient for me.
I kind of feel like I know where it’s all going though…So, just to entertain myself…here are some completely far-reaching and most-likely incorrect conjectures about Hallowed:(view spoiler)[1) Clara, my dear, there’s no way that you’re only ¼ angel.
Finding love.
Everyone is in everyone's business knows everyone else, it's sweet!The whole time I was reading I was completely into the story.
It just had a great flow that you could just breeze through the story and enjoy every minute of it.
Especially the way they were all present.
I love when an author manages to do that.
But the protagonist - Clara - she's great!
The highlight of this book is definitely the character development with just a bit of world build up.
I love getting to know and care for the characters before the big story materializes.
4.5 stars!I am really surprised by how much I loved this one.
I was even prepared to round up to 5 stars, but then I saw that my friends who have read it loved the subsequent books even more, so I decided to leave room for improvement!
I read and loved a book by Cynthia Hand a couple of weeks ago, and had many friends tell me that I had to try this series, and I'm so glad I did.
I desperately needed a genre switch, and this turned out to be such a fun read.
I was even prepared to round up to 5 stars, but then I saw that my friends who have read it loved the subsequent books even more, so I decided to leave room for improvement!
I read and loved a book by Cynthia Hand a couple of weeks ago, and had many friends tell me that I had to try this series, and I'm so glad I did.
I really click with this author, I feel like she is one of those gifted writers who can really engage you in her characters, and I loved the Wyoming backdrop.
Initial Reaction After Completion This reaction is due to that what-the-fuck endingThis was a fun, enjoyable read. Among the disastrous Angel PNR novels out there, this one is much better. And I liked it. No scratch that. I really, really liked it. There are, undoubtedly, better books out there, but so are worse. I will confess, I won't remember the plot or the characters verbatim in the days to come, because it just wasn't that good. And I'm definitely not going to reread it. But it was entert
I will confess, I won't remember the plot or the characters verbatim in the days to come, because it just wasn't that good.
The classes were incredibly awesome.Gosh, I loved them.The teacher was damn fun and creative, who on earth wouldn't develop interest in history?
These classes were a reliable source of carefree, teasing and light moments throughout the book.
"As a serf, poor Christian has already been killed several times in our class.
Meh. Cliched, Mr. Popular with killer looks and not-so-charming attitude.His character wasn't developed properly.
Lovely, original, engaging. The last 50 pages had my heart racing!
Unearthly was unlike the other angel books I've read and it was very good and a worthy read.Unearthly is about a 16 year old girl named Clara who with her brother and mother have to move to Washington after learning her purpose in life.
Being 1/4 angel, Clara has a purpose which is to save an unknown guy (Christian) from a forest fire.At first I predicted everything that was going to happen.As I kept reading, though, things changed, which I hadn't predicted.
There were excellent plot twists and characters that went above and beyond my standards or what I thought was going to happen.There were many things I loved about this book.
With its strong characters, swoon-worthy guys, and unique angel lore, Unearthly is now my gold-star standard for angel books.I grew up on a ranch near where this story takes place, so reading Unearthly felt like coming home.
Cynthia creates a strong, likeable heroine through Clara's voice and actions.
(None of that "I'm going to DIIIIIIIE" because of boy troubles for our heroine.) From Clara's friends to her mom, Cynthia Hand creates engaging, believable characters that I care about.Tucker.
