https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30043.A_River_Runs_Through_It_and_Other_Stories
It's been over twenty years since Robert Redford turned the title story in this collection into a film that starred the young rising actor, Brad Pitt, as I always want to remember him..
not like he's gone now, but his recent scraggly beard phase did kind of dampen my admiration.The movie also starred the canyons and rivers and fish of Montana:But I was moved not only by Brad and the scenery, but also the poetic narration, which frequently quoted the title story:Now nearly all those I loved and did not understand when I was young are dead, but I still reach out to them.
It took Maclean most of his life to write his first book, and it reads as if he’d been saving every beautiful observation about life, family and fly fishing for one unforgettable burst. I never tire of reading it.
I finally read the book a few years ago, and found a profundity that the film barely touched.
It speaks to a subterranean level of spirituality that I believe all people possess, but men find nearly impossible to express.
A River Runs Through It is the tale of a family in Montana, overwhelmed by testosterone, and unable to ever fully express the depths of their love for each other, except (perhaps) through their activities.
For the men in the family, it was through fishing - and not just any fishing, but fly-fishing.
I still find myself crying several times per reading, usually unable to fully explain to myself why.
[...] Almost no other author's work reads aloud as well as Maclean's, elegiac, haunting and taut.I believe the explanation of the instant charm these stories have exerted on me can be explained by their long gestation and by the passion for the subject the author has been able to translate into words that flow like his sparkling mountain rivers.
I sometimes think of myself as an aspirant photographer, so the passage that made the story personal is here: "It was a beautiful stretch of water, either to a fisherman or a photographer, although each would have focused his equipment on a different point." Here is Maclean in his teacher disguise, a fourth ot fifth way of looking at his writing as a textbook for educating a younger generation in how to search for deeper meaning behind the surface images.
Late in life, his wife of 37 years died, and shortly thereafter, he retired from his job and completed these three stories: A River Runs Through It, Logging and Pimping and "Your Pal, Jim", and USFS 1919: The Ranger, the Cook, and a Hole in the Sky. The stories arrived like lightning from the clear blue sky, because this was a guy in his 70s suddenly showing this amazing talent.
It's told with a dry wit, though every so often Maclean turns on the eloquence, as in this description of the art of fly fishing:Below [Paul:] was the multitudinous river, and, where the rock had parted it around him, big-grained vapor rose.
I really, really fucking hate to fish, but.
Can you end a sentence with "but?" Did I write that correctly with the quotation marks?
I'm using humor to avoid talking about my real feelings.
When I first read this book I was on a cross-country flight.
I was just finishing it when we began our descent.
That last part when he is out fishing alone and everyone he knew and loved was dead...how can that not just rip you up?
At the end of the film, my girlfriend at the time asked me if I was crying.
It may be a book that could only have been written by someone in his seventies, as Maclean was when he began it.
But it's also a book that has a great deal to say about the bonds that tie family members together and about the heartache that can result when one of those family members desperately needs help that none of the others is able to give.Most of all, it's about the memories and relationships that one forges during the course of a long and interesting life as told from the bittersweet perspective of the last survivor.
It's a beautifully written book, spare and lean, with passages on virtually every page that will dazzle and haunt a reader long after he or she has finished reading it.
I have read every Pulitzer fiction winner and finalist from 2000 to the present, and of those years (generally a year has 3 finalists one of which is the winner) A River Runs Through It not only belongs but still manages to stand out.The novella is a nostalgic look back at Maclean's youth and young adulthood in early 20th century Montana, and while you'll often hear this book described as one about fly fishing, this is not so.
Both become excellent fishermen and in their 20's, about the only time they spend together is fly fishing with Norman being married and Paul having moved about 40 miles away.Maclean has a rare talent for story telling and is a brilliant observer.
It goes into fine details of casting line (which apparently is "an art that is performed on a four-count rhythm between ten and two o'clock"), finding a good sawing partner and ideal sawing rhythm, and the methods of extinguishing wildfires in the early twentieth century; generally the sort of thing every 21st century girl cares a good deal about.Norman Maclean grew up in the old times, before they invented a metrosexual man and taught him how to communicate his feelings, so the men in 'A River Runs Through It' express their emotions the best they know how - by fishing, logging, playing cards or putting out a forest fire.
“We can love completely what we cannot completely understand.”― Norman Maclean, A River Runs Through It and Other Stories A near perfect novella, carved into a near perfect book; a beautiful thing. That is all I have to say about that. Well, perhaps a literary/geologic inequality as a postscript: Prose + Structure > Time + Ablation
“It is those we live with and love and should know who elude us.”I absolutely loved these stories, especially A River Runs Through It. It’s breathtaking. I knew I loved the film, but it’s been many years since I’ve seen it, so the story really felt fresh. All of the stories are pretty fantastic. I highly recommend this on audio. Superb narration.
I've been having a lot of conversations about this book recently, and I keep coming back to this quote.Fiction is an amazing thing, and what it teaches me is that things don't have to be "fact" to be "true".
At sunrise everything is luminous but not clear.""Many of us probably would be better fisherman if we did not spend so much time watching and waiting for the world to be perfect.""'Do you think you should help him?''Yes,' he said, 'I thought we were going to.''How,' I asked.'By taking him fishing with us.''I've just told you,' I said, 'he doesn't like to fish.''Maybe so,' my brother replied.
'But maybe what he likes is somebody trying to help him.'"
this is one of those books my mother has been telling me to read for what feels like my whole life.
naturally, i have fought reading it tooth and nail.
the title story is beautiful and heartbreaking, and the writing itself has the controlled and confident power that maclean describes in his brother's cast.
maclean wrote this barely-fictional story of life as a child and young man when he was in his 70s; its concentrated grace is a forceful argument in favor of patience in writing, of telling no tale before its time.
I understand why someone would stand in a freezing cold water to fish without a reel because I read this book.
I feel that this book has a target audience: people who like fly fishing, and that's it.
But it's buried under so much crap about fly fishing that by the time it gets to anything else, you don't really care, because you know the book is going to go right back to freaking fly fishing.
I mean, the book even kind of sums up if a person is "beautiful" or "a bastard" due to how much the like fly fishing.
FLY FISHING.I mean, DAMN.Also, did anyone else start laughing out loud when Norman was telling us about fish thinking about eggnog?
How would a fish even know what eggnog was?
I wish my experience had come even a little bit close to how that reader felt about the book, because I wouldn't have ended up feeling like my time had been wasted.And honestly, this was a huge slog.
There are three stories in this book, although two are more like novellas.
It has a very poetic ending with a tone that I wish had run through more of the story:
The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time.
There is a rawness to the stories that Norman Maclean tells in this collection.
He lived the stories 30 or 40 years before he wrote them into this book.
It reminds me a little bit of Hemingway but with a more refined sense of place.
Hemingway seemed to be searching for something or trying to find himself in the places he traveled.
Maclean writes those experiences in a western-style of prose that captures time, place and humanity so that we, those of us reading his work long after his death, live those times and think maybe Montana is still the Montana of Maclean's youth.
This is probably my favorite book of all times. The story is simple with great characters and the writing is incredible. The last passage still gives me goosebumps and I've read it so many times. He certainly has a way with language!
Who would have thought that a story with so much description of fly fishing could have universal appeal?
Lesser writers would have required hundreds of pages and still not been able to capture the tender strength, the beauty and ultimate weakness in quiet, ordinary brotherly love.
The title story was so perfect that it left me in a place beyond words.
Maclean never got in the way of his story.
The other stories in this collection are coming of age moments.
Although they are good, they pale in comparison to the title story.
As a collection, these short stories were pretty blasé, but A River Runs Through It was SO good as to make up for the others. It was the curve breaker - a masterfully understated and sublime story.
The way he describes how a fisherman should think and react is insightful, but the way he describes the gravity-induced phenomenon of rivers is, to use Reverend Maclean's best word, "beautiful." As Wendell Berry teaches us, "gravity is grace" and every good and perfect gift is "from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights" (quoting James 1:17).
How does Norman help his wild, debt-laden brother Paul?
How can Paul help Norman as he fords a difficult stretch in his marriage?
Maclean's answer is singular: fishing.
Yet Norman makes Paul immortal through this story - the greatest gift he could still give to his complicated, beloved brother.
A la postre, todas las cosas se funden en una sola, y por ella fluye un río. ¡Qué tedio! Está preciosamente escrito, sin embargo no veía la hora de que se terminara. Muy pesado, lleno de descripciones largas que no dicen nada. Historias insulsas. Lo mejor de este libro son la prosa y cómo Maclean termina los relatos. Todo lo que tenía que pasar había pasado, todo lo que tenía que ser visto ya era historia. Aquel fue uno de esos momentos en los que nada queda salvo una abertura en el cielo y una
A la postre, todas las cosas se funden en una sola, y por ella fluye un río.
¡Qué tedio!
Está preciosamente escrito, sin embargo no veía la hora de que se terminara.
Muy pesado, lleno de descripciones largas que no dicen nada.
Historias insulsas.
Lo mejor de este libro son la prosa y cómo Maclean termina los relatos.
Todo lo que tenía que pasar había pasado, todo lo que tenía que ser visto ya era historia.
Aquel fue uno de esos momentos en los que nada queda salvo una abertura en el cielo y una historia que narrar...
Eh, this wasn't too bad, but I don't think it was really for me and it drug quite a bit in a lot of places. I would have cut down considerably, but I think that's personal taste. I can dig fiction in the trees, and even manly man stuff now and again, but this was just too much for me where that seemed to be the sole point. I needed something to get me over those sections and instead it seemed to be much of the reason for the stories at all. I just didn't dig it that much.
Brothers and fathers and nature (and mountains and rivers) and fishing and logging (and working with your hands) and walking (and boots) and coming of age and fighting and religion and in-laws and money (and gambling) and prostitution and ...
Maclean's writing reads at a leisurely pace - walk, don't run, he seems to suggest - and doesn't think twice about repetition or doubling back over ground previously covered.
You can imagine Maclean reading his stories around a campfire or trapped in mountain shelter while waiting out a storm.
Even these details weave perfectly into the larger focus of the story, subtly showing the beautiful relationship between two brothers and their father.Two more stories remain to be read in this short collection, but I already wish Maclean had been more prolific.
The second novella in this story collection, USFS 1919: The Ranger, The Cook, and a Hole in the Sky, probably isn't the masterpiece that A River Runs Through It is, but it contains some of the best written scenes I've read.
It's easy to allow yourself to get bored with this one.
But push through it; you won't regret it.
This is a story about two brothers who grow up fly fishing, and they're taught by their minister father how physical grace and spiritual grace can become the same thing through fishing.
It's a beautiful story.
It got me to thinking about what in my life helps me gain physical and spiritual grace at the same time.
What's the one thing you do that is spiritual to you, but maybe not to anyone else.
I love the movie based on this story, but had not read the novella, so when the folks at Literary Disco raved about it, it moved to the top of my TBR pile. I listened to the audiobook wonderfully narrated by Ivan Doig. This is really a meditation. A meditation on nature and fly fishing, on fathers and sons, on love and loss, on the push and pull of siblings. I have thoroughly enjoyed listening to this on my evening walks along Boston Harbor, and plan to watch the movie again soon.
Beautiful short story about brothers, fly fishing and Montana. I listened to the audio version on my commute, so I was transported from gridlock to the Montana mountains in the years between the World Wars. I have seen the movie, so it was easy to picture a young Brad Pitt as brother Paul. Yeah, those were peaceful commutes. :)
If you wanna know about fly fishing, or what life was like with the U.S. Forest Service in the early 1900s, these stories are for you. A river runs through it was quite good. A story of a family, not too vocal with their love for one another- but it's there. And facing the trouble of wishing you could help another, but also knowing as much as you try, sometimes you can't. Though, to get to this, you have to get through a lot of fly fishing.
Have long been a fan of the movie adaptation of Maclean's "A River Runs Through It," but I had yet to read the original novella itself, so I picked this up at a bookstore in Santa Fe while on vacation.The book actually contains two novellas with one short story sandwiched in between them, so it offers a few samples of Maclean's genius storytelling ability.Overall, "River" is (in my opinion) a perfect story.
Thus, 4 stars for the book as a whole.
