https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/706.America_The_Book_
It's all one big lampoon of laughter and I loved it!Yes, it can sometimes be silly in a juvenile way...“It's not that the Democrats are playing checkers and the Republicans are playing chess.
It's that the Republicans are playing chess and the Democrats are in the nurse's office because once again they glued their balls to their thighs.”And its insight isn't exactly mindblowing (or is it?)...“If "con" is the opposite of pro, then isn't Congress the opposite of progress?
I also felt this profound alienation from the rest of my country that was painful but probably necessary.Anyway, so somehow I associate this book with that time, and with seeing ole Chuck Schumer on the Daily Show a couple days later, just regurgitating the same old exhausted, embarrassing garbage -- "What the American People really want is what the Democratic Party has been offering them all along" -- and Jon Stewart practically shaking him, being like, "Don't you fucking GET it, retard???
what a hoot! rtc!
I know Jon Stewart, The Daily Show, and Colbert are more honest and reliable news sources than the rest of the media, I just don't believe it.Ironically, it is that same gap between knowledge and belief that has resulted in this sad state.the reactionary, opinionated pundits keep talking down to these little basic-cable comedy shows, but the fact that their feathers are so ruffled shows that they are afraid, and that they consider this to be as serious as the rest of us.Why is Stewart the journalist who asks hard questions about the war?
Published on my book blog.I'm a big fan of Jon Stewart and The Daily Show, but for some reason I'd never felt curious to read any of their books until this year.
It's opinionated, scandalous, hilarious, and so spot-on that my bittersweet feeling of not knowing whether to laugh or get depressed was sustained throughout the whole book.This is presented in the form of an educational book for children, and since the content couldn't be further away from that demographic, it's doubly funny to see "helpful" diagrams, maps, games and illustration to help the reader understand a little better this wonderful but deeply flawed thing we call Democracy.Highly recommended.
The sharp, sardonic wit that Stewart is known for on his show are almost completely absent here, replaced with lame, dull jokes that feel like they were written by a much less worthy comedian.There are a few chuckles here and there.
Then have fake Thomas Jefferson say something even more silly.
Unfortunately, Stewart leaves his readers waiting for him to write a real book.It should be noted that this review refers to the audiobook version of this book.

I have lost track of the number of pristine copies of this book I have found on the side of the road.I have also lost track of the total quantity of marijuana I have broken up upon the pristine copy of this book I decided to take home.I have also lost track of where said copy ever went. It's really the ideal surface/size for all your joint-rolling needs. And no, I never bothered to read the damn book. We were too busy getting high and watching True Blood or pretending to read Winterson.Winter, son.
Stanley Schultz, Evaluation In 2004 'America, The Book" was let loose on the general public and gobbled up (pardon, but it is almost Thanksgiving) thousands of missives.
Chapters 8 and 9, The Future of Democracy and The Rest of the World are to be read immediately, maybe start with these chapters and work backwards like the politicians do.
I do recommend this book to all serious students of history and those who are not serious at all.
If you are at all familiar with The Daily Show With John Stewart, then you pretty much know what this book will be like. Two notes: (1) The book is also a parody of school textbooks, from the obvious (and great) "Classroom Activities" at the end of each chapter to more subtle touches like the bold text used for key vocabulary words.(2) There is a fair amount of profanity, sometimes used well but sometimes a jarring attempt at a cheap laugh.
Full Disclosure--I am addicted to The Daily Show. When I miss the show, I can be found at my desk at work sneaking a peek at the internet repeat. So this was absolutely the book for me. A totally entertaining look at the "citizen's guide of democracy inaction". Lots of moments when I found myself laughing out loud. That wouldn't be so bad, but again I was at my desk. I really need to get a grip on my behavior. Loved this book.
This book taught me many things.
It taught me that American History and Government is very boring.
It taught me that even an hilarious parody of American History and Government cannot make the subject interesting.
It also taught me that I am even more ignorant of popular culture than I think I am because there were some jokes I didn't get.
There were charts, graphs, maps, photos, polls, a pull out poster, discussion questions, sidebars, quotes, forms, games, paper dolls, drawings, scans, quizzes, even a flip book.
Visually, the book was extremely appealing.
The jokes were fresh and funny and I even laughed out loud at times.
But American History is still boring.
A humorous and satirical look at our country, the ideals it was based on, those who founded it, and how it compares to other areas of the world.Unless you are already an expert on America, democracy and everything pertaining to it, you will find yourself wondering whether the information contained in this book is the truth, or a joke.
It's unfortunate; however, that in order to point out distressing truths about our 'great nation' the authors were forced to resort to humor.

Try to do yourselves a favor and get your hands on the audiobook version. While the experience is quite different in the absence of the visuals (a BIG part of the book's humor), there's something to be said for hearing all of the DS's original cast reading passages of the book aloud. Most hilarious is Stephen Colbert's lessons for teachers/quiz questions at the end of each chapter. The audiobook made a long trip to Austin from Dallas that much faster! Beware! It might get you laughing so hard you'll commit a traffic violation.
I got this as a gift because my friend knew I love Jon Stewart. If I had picked it up at a bookstore and perused a few pages I wouldn't have bought it. It was ok and at times humorous but it didn't really add anything to my life. I still watch his show here and there of course, but I wanted more from his book.
One of the few times I enjoy the movie or tv show (in this case: The Daily Show with Jon Stewart) more than the book. Took me a while appreciate the book, but there are many funny and clever parts in the book.
Yikes... This book did not transform well into an audiobook.
I'm a big fan of The Daily Show, and was very happy when I received this book as a gift. But, I actually couldn't do much more than flip through it, after trying to read the first 20 pages or so and being miserably disappointed.In my opinion, Jon Stewart's wit, sarcasm and wry insight just doesn't translate well off the small screen and into print.
I bought this book for five dollars from Borders. Yay for me. I started reading a bit, it's pretty hilarious. I love the faux textbook-esque style of it. I opened it up to a random page and read under a "Discussion questions" section "List the top 100 tv shows you would rather watch than the evening news". Hahahhhaha. Awesome.
Very funny, sad but true look at our screwed up, dysfunctional government. I only give it 4 stars because the delivery of the humor by my inner voice wasn't nearly as good as Jon Stewart's on the show. When does the movie version come out?
Lol. This short "history" of democracy and all "about" our democratic institution is accurately hilarious in a way only the Daily Show writers could produce... And so it's irreverent and sometimes vulgar too.
Brilliant satire of a broken system. Some parts are just insanely funny
I was all for this book. It was VERY funny and quite entertaining, until I saw pics of all supreme court justices faces photoshopped onto naked bodies. (Shudder)
13 years after publication this is still bang on.
And another plus to reading this book was that I felt smart doing so.
My favorite line in the foreward was "Sally may not like it, but as we used to say in the back parlours of 18th-century Paris, 'tough titties' ." The quote is completely meaningless and irrelevant to the book but I guess I'm just immature in thinking such crude humor as...
In the middle of the book however, John makes a good observation of our congress "Lawmaking is tedious and never-ending.
I don't know, I think It's a great book, It takes about a week to read.
Part of the reason people want to buy/read this book is for the humor and not so much the information.
But I have a feeling it was hard for the writers to address every piece of democracy humorously, so considering how much they did make funny, it's quite impressive.There's not really a lot to say about this book, I liked it, it was a fun read that many people will be able to enjoy.
Also, the text book format I'm sure will bring back many memories.One problem though...
if you're reading this at work, like I was, don't look at page 99...
In the wake of everyone talking about people living in "bubbles" in the wake of the 2016 US Presidential election, I have to say that this book isn't going to puncture or cross any bubbles.
If you're looking for a book with proposed solutions, rather than one humorously identifying flaws, then this isn't the place for you, though.
Not to sound like a jerk, but I could also foresee people who didn't have a strong background in US history of politics to believe some of the sarcasm/jokes interspersed, kind of like how Onion articles are mistaken for truth.
I suppose that that is another testament to the absurdity of politics, though.
The book, "America: A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction", is a very interesting and humorous book that relates mainly to America's Politics and Economy.
I enjoyed reading this book because I am a fan of History and I enjoy watching the news every night to learn what is happening in America and also in foreign countries.
This book allows the reader to gain knowledge about our economy and political system, but in a different way then watching the news.
Jon Stewart reveals information to his readers in a humorous and fun way which makes the reading more enjoyable.
Unintentionally procrastinated for a month on writing a review for this book, so it's definitely no longer fresh in my mind.
I can't help but compare this to Stephen Colbert's first book, I am America, which is so thick with satirical irony that if I listen too closely it makes my head hurt.
America (The Book), in contrast, is laced with satire as well as just plain silliness, making it a lighter, more enjoyable read.
I particularly loved the "educational" format of the book, particularly the discussion questions and classroom activities.
