https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37298.Mind_Prey
Lucas made a fortune designing elaborate games and uses those skills when trying to smoke out bad guys, but Mail is a gamer who sees playing against Davenport as the ultimate test.
It also helps that Andi and her girls aren't just passive victims because trying to manipulate Mail and coming up with a way to fight him are big parts of their story.Sandford has played up the angle of Lucas as game designer since the first book, so it’s a little surprising that he waited until the seventh book in the Prey series before using the premise of Davenport’s adversary being a gamer.
A decent end is all that saved this to 3 stars. It's not a thrill when detective Davenport and the police are inept and unable to catch someone literally in front of their eyes. Maybe it was all just a trick of the mind. 5 of 10 stars
This is one of the earlier books in John Sandford's acclaimed Prey series featuring Minneapolis police detective Lucas Davenport.
In this case, Davenport, who has made a fortune writing computer simulations and games, finds himself up against a sociopathic gamer named John Mail.Mail, who had once been institutionalized, kidnaps Andi Manette, a psychiatrist who had once treated him.
As a gamer, Mail recognizes Davenport's name and makes this a personal contest between the two of them.The story is gripping; Davenport is intense and fun as always, and the climax is one of the best of the entire series.
As is the case with all of Sandford's books, this should appeal to a large number of readers.
As a result, a post-doc assignment for a new young psychiatrist, Andi Manette, was to examine the 12-year-old locked up in Hennepin County jail.
Mail already was almost full grown, despite his youth, and Andi decided he was insane, her diagnosis sending him to a state hospital.
The next few minutes will change the Manette family forever.Dr. Andi Manette was a child of privilege, rich and pampered.
These questions have become important because John Mail seems to have insider knowledge, aware of details he shouldn't know, details which he shares when he finally calls, asking for a ransom.No one believes Mail will return the family alive.
To tell the truth, he'd rather face John Mail then propose to Karkinnen.
Andi Manette and her two daughters Grace and Genevieve are taken in broad day light in front of the girls' school.
John Mail is an psychopath and is very unstable.
Andi Manette was John Mail's psychiatrist; she is the one who put him in a mental hospital.
In walks Lucas Davenport, who in my opinion, is one of the best fictional cop characters of all time.
Davenport will do everything in his power to find the three Manette's before they are dead.
Clues come in from Mail and one even points to the fact that one of Andi's daughter's has already been killed.
Outstanding! I truly enjoyed this book. The story, as usual from this author, takes you to that dark place and then returns you with feelings of undisguised remorse, anger and shouts f joy for Lucas Davenport's skilled ability to get into the mind of a psychopath, deranged killer or the victim. This story started on a fast track and never slowed down. I wonder why they never made a movie from this series like they did "Jesse Stone or Spenser."
Lucas Davenport, the book's main character, is almost never in danger, and Sandford chooses to use an over-abundance of swearing to make the story seem more exciting than it is.
For a book titled Mind Prey, there's really not a whole lot of mind games going on here, and the villian is certainly no match for Lucas.
Lucas comes close to nabbing the bad guy several times early on in the book, and it feels like the reason he doesn't is simply because Sandford needs for the book to be longer.

Ebook Good plot that brings about the need for more civil work to be done with mental health vs protecting the citizenry.
Another great Lucas Davenport story! Number 7 in the series- with more to go. My only 'gripe' is that I feel that Davenport should be the single guy, not the married guy. I really got to get over this, for I 'looked' ahead- and marriage is in the cards for him. Since this book was first published in 1995 , I will spare you the details of this book- other than if you haven't yet picked up the 'Prey' series.... what are you waiting for ?
This summer I've been rereading author John Sandford's Lucas Davenport "Prey" series.
The seventh book from the series, "Mind Prey", is actually one that back in the day (1995) I had missed.
"Mind Prey", opens with Davenport getting to a bloody crime scene where socialite Andi Manette and her two young daughters have apparently been violently attacked and kidnapped.
Author Sandford creates some of the best and most evil of bad guys.
Protagonist Lucas Davenport is no politician when it comes to get the case cracked, and his irreverence towards authority is one of the best parts about this series.
This was WAY better than the Bekker murders and I loved the ending. Lucas is coming along!
Procedural with a bang up ending. Recommended.
This makes for some difficult passages but encourages the reader to press on with the hopes that Davenport will find his man.
For me, this is the first Davenport book in the series in which the plot turns fit the rhythm of the narrative without feeling like they were peppered in for unnecessary shock value or action.
There are some corny jokes but Davenport has some decent catch phrases which make the reader do a fist pump and murmur "F-ing A" instead of rolling their eyes.The scenes involving MPD and their executions of quarantine, show of force, and investigations are the best parts of the book.
I've said before that the books in John Sanford's "Prey" series get better as they go along, and Mind Prey continues that trend.
The threat of horrible killings was present always, and more "suspense" came in the form of not knowing whether lead character and erstwhile womanizer Lucas Davenport finally would pop the question to his live-in surgeon (no, I'm not going to tell you)!As an aside, somewhere around 60% of the way through the book, I found a gem I'm planning to steal and keep for myself: A TV weatherman in Minnesota, where the book is set, said that the low pressure system responsible for all the rain had "rambled off to the east and presently peeing in Ohio." I'm from Ohio, and I know all about that rambling rain.
Gotta love it!
I think I always say this, but this was the best Lucas Davenport novel yet!
And by far...FAR...the best demise of the bad guy I can remember reading.
I've read off of the series now and I'm working on it a second time through.
I'd forgotten the story on this one and I'd forgotten the great ending until the very end.
What a great writer Mr. Sandford it!!!
This one will stand alone if you haven't read any of his stuff...if you start with this one I think you'll be hooked for life...like me!
Lucas Davenport is involved with an important case that includes a mom and her two daughters. They are kidnapped by a former mental patient that is both big and intelligent. This one was quite captivating and similar to the previous books at about one hundred pages left you want to make time to finish at one sitting.
Davenport Simulations is Lucas’ gaming company, and it’s managed by Barry Hunt, who doesn’t much like Lucas.
Ice is a Goth gamer, one of the techies at Davenport Simulations.The copsDetectives Marcy Sherrill (Mike is her husband) and Tom Black, her gay partner, take charge of the kidnapping.
Dr. L.D. Rehder works at the nuthouse where Mail was incarcerated.Dr. Andi Manette is a psychiatrist who has separated from her contractor husband, George Dunn, who owns and operates North Light Development.
Anyway, Mail is a gamer, and he turns the kidnapping into a game, up against Lucas Davenport, the millionaire game developer.
So this one was the first one where instead of being fascinated and horrified by the antagonist I truly hated him. This dude is just a pathetic fucking piece of shit and I was psychically urging Lucas on the whole time. I’m completely satisfied with the ending to this one and for once I found myself emotionally in concert with Lucas’s angry, cruel side. That’s pretty fucked up! Thanks, John Sandford! More masterful thriller writing, always scoring 100 in the “unputdownable” category.
The first 3rd of the book was good but I was thinking "nothing special". It kept ratcheting up the suspense. You are in the story from 3 peoples point of view and all 3 are getting wound tighter and tighter as the story progresses.Very good book and good narration. I was glad that I had a long drive to finish the book.
Excellent. One of my favorites as I work my way through this series.
Sure, Lucas tries to play the political game to a certain extent, but that’s not really him.
I must take my hat off to the author for being clever and tasteful and not describing the actual rape scenes of the mother while in captivity, but alluding to it in her conversations with her eldest daughter.
With the right word choices – it makes all the difference.I think I was more drawn to this particular story because of this bond between mother and daughters.
I read at least one John Sandford mystery each summer during vacation.
This year I read Mind Prey.
The dual-careered Davenport lives his adventure and creates the computer adventure games truly appreciated by gamers; his brain, perfectly designed to deal with these adventures, is at the same time logical and creative.
While I love to hold a book in my hands, turn the pages, and reluctantly bookmark, having the audiobook to listen to is wonderful the multi-tasking teacher on vacation.
I love that he writes in such a way that I can try to solve the mystery myself along with Lucas Davenport.
This is the 7th Lucas Davenport novel by John Sandford.In this installment Davenport is investigating a psychiatric patient and former prisoner who has kidnapped Andi Manette and her two daughters.
Manette was John Mail's psychiatrist.Mail uses various means to try and trick Davenport into situations where he can be killed.
Sandford uses this as a mystery when the reader knows who the psycho criminal is from the beginning.Mail has the Manette family holed up in a cellar for five days.
Andi does all she can to prevent Mail from going after her daughters.
When you read the back of these novels and it talks about how the protagonist is going up against his worst enemy yet, it rarely applies as well as it did with this novel.
The sociopath in this novel, while not the most intelligent nor physically intimidating nutcase in literature, is twisted enough to earn the above title of "worst enemy yet." He regularly calls Lucas Davenport, our hero, and taunts him.
He is as smart as Davenport, but the cat and mouse game between the two is intense, and unpredictable as both men occasionally come out on top.
Another sleek thriller in the John Sandford's Prey series; it makes me wonder why I don't read him more often.
Really liked this book. Its number 7 and I'm reading them all in order. This might be my favorite of them all, well written, the book keeps moving with not a lot of the more personal stuff going on behind the scenes. The book is story-centric which is what I like. Same cast of characters as the previous books so it starts quickly and maintains the pace through the book. Can't wait for Sudden Prey #8.
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; JULY 6, 2015Narrator: Richard FerroneAs usual, it was a slow, plodding listen but the last 25% made it all worth it. Well, almost. Sandford could speed things up (IMO) a bit in the first half of his books since I seem to have the same complaint each time.Loved what the mother and daughter did to their captor! This installation was a refreshing change from those the usual battling-crooked-cops-and-bureaucracy storylines:)
Fast-paced thriller with compelling plot and great characters.
Awesome! Loved this book. The story was smart, funny at times, and intense. Our villain was pure evil and smart, but not smart enough for Lucas. By far the best ending and so far my favorite out of the Prey series. Looks like our Lucas is in love and I'm excited to see where that goes. I do need to get out of my "prey box" and read something else though. Let's see....
In the seventh Lucas Davenport novel a psychiatrist and her two children are kidnapped by a deranged ex-patient. Like the best of Sandford it builds suspense in the middle and races as it reaches the conclusion.
