https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662277.Flim_Flam_
This book, written in 1982 and well in need of an updated and revised edition, documents many of Randi's investigations in painstaking and unrelenting detail.He tells us first of the hoax perpetrated by two young English girls, one which was good enough to capture not just a credulous nation of newspaper readers, but a man regarded as one of the greatest minds of his time - Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
He doesn't laugh and say "I told you so." In fact, in one chapter he mentions that he feels bad sometimes, telling people who honestly believe they have a unique gift that, in fact, they don't.I suspect that Randi really wants supernatural powers to exist.
How come I never managed to fool myself or others into thinking it was anything more than something goofy and imaginative?
I.e., why, upon discovering that there's no sense at the bottom of astrology or tarot, after figuring out that one cannot will oneself into flying, why didn't I just lie to myself the way so many hundreds of thousands of others have?
It's not as if I didn't grow up in a hippy age full of lunatics.Well, anyway, maybe I found other ways to go insane.
Randi's frustration at the continuing gullibility of people who fall for "psychic" cons comes through a little too loudly at times, making some sections seem more strident than necessary.
I was particularly interested in his account of Arthur Conan Doyle's fairies, as well as a few of the stories of people who knowingly conned others into believing they had psychic powers, but there were a couple of chapters I skimmed.
But probably the most moving chapter was his discussion of religious cons, particularly the Jonestown massacre, that ends with Randi being furious at the misuse of religion to get gain or manipulate others.
Although writing style is quite dry occasionally, the book does a great job in discrediting various fradulent and simply nonsensical an mystical practices.
This is a book written by James Randi, a famous magician and also a famous pre-MythBusters exposer of ESP/magic/UFO/etc frauds.
The thing is though, the things he's exposing in this book, Bermuda Triangle, Chariot of the Gods, etc., are things that almost no one would take seriously today, unlike when I was a little kid and there was actually a copy of Chariot of the Gods in my school's library.
Which is nothing against Randi, it's just too contemporary with the world when it was written that it got a little left behind.
The other complaint I have is that it is too detailed for a popular audience, just a little.
But from reading his work, I get the strong impression that Randi really does play fair, and really would be delighted to see evidence of paranormal events.
Randi also makes a point that I've found to be true in my own life: If you don't place a bet, people say you aren't putting your money where your mouth is; and then if you do, they say you are showboating and being theatrical.
Once that new discovery became verified, explained, and fitted into our scientific paradigm, people would stop calling it paranormal.
I have yet to read a skeptic book that I didn't like, but Randi's is particularly loveable. He's seen the same garbage a million times over and doesn't give a shit. Yet he curses like a country vicar and I love it. Flim-flam! Codswallop! Poppycock! Its delightful and charming, especially so because the man is right. A skeptic oldie but goodie.
James Randi's first major study of pseudoscience and the paranormal is lively, passionate, and incredible well-reasoned. It made a huge impression on me when I first read it as a teenager, and it's held up surprisingly well over the years, largely because the methods of buncombe he condemns rarely change.
If those who forget history are doomed to repeat it, then similarly those who do not read Randi's book are doomed to fall prey to such schemes as fake fairies and make-believe aliens who provide blueprints on rocks of open-heart surgery...for a small fee, of course.
James Randi has been criticized in the past for his somewhat hectoring authorial tone and his sometimes open disdain for the believers he deals with.
I am sympathetic to both points, as I certainly believe in the use of honey rather than vinegar, yet I sympathize also with Randi faced with the frustrating hurdles he must clear.
However, his major problem is that he does not simply provide evidence: he rages against those who believe such things, and this arrogance is a complete turn-off.A second point: the book was initially published in 1988, but many of the items discussed (biorhythms, for example) have long since lost their popularity.
The answer comes, not from Randi, but from a scientist who states that when options are discussed relating to global or national problems (the energy crisis, for example), such quackery will be taken seriously.
Sure, I'm interest in the paranormal but I also have an open, critical mind to it all. Both sides believes and views are fascinating. But the book was just boring. Nothing against the subject itself. Didn't catch my interest with the writing, is all.
So when the Centre for Inquiry managed to book him for a pan-Canada tour, I figured that I ought to read up on him a little bit before he hit Ottawa.Because I was reading Flim-Flam around the same time that I saw Randi speak live, the parallels between the two were made quite evident.
He personally exposed most of them, although some, such as the Cottingley fairies, are merely explained.I found Flim-Flam to be an interesting read - enough so to inspire me to want to learn more about conjuring and mentalism.
Recommended for anyone with an interest in the paranormal, or with skepticism in general.
The words of a master skeptic!
The time was right for a healthy dose of skepticism and rationality and who better to kick off the conversation than a leading expert in the arts of trickery and deception … noted magician, mentalist and escape artist James (The Amazing) Randi.Subjects tackled in the book include: UFOs, the Bermuda Triangle, astrology, Arthur Conan Doyle and the Cottingley Fairies, transcendental meditation, so-called ‘alien artifacts’ (aka Nazca Lines, Egyptian Pyramids, or the moai of Easter Island), parapsychology studies at the Standford Research Institute in the 70s and 80s, and others.
Skeptic and professional magician James Randi has made a second career of investigation claims of paranormal phenomena and psychic abilities, as a representative of the Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP).
Surprising to me was the large proportion of reported paranormal phenomena that were not fraudulent, but rather "honest" cases of distorted perceptions compounded with faulty logic.
Instead, CSICOP provides a means of testing such claims in a well-controlled setting, so that genuine psychic or paranormal activity can be demonstrated beyond a reasonable doubt.
His mission to expose paranormal and pseudoscientific frauds and promote critical thinking among the public is well documented, as is his million dollar prize for anyone who can demonstrate paranormal abilities under controlled conditions.This book, published in 1982, discusses some of the main areas of the paranormal and pseudoscience, including dowsing, UFOs, fairies, psychic surgery and religious cults.
Randi discusses all of the topics in great detail, with a huge amount of information regarding previous ‘tests’ performed on those claiming to have paranormal abilities and his own investigations.
Нищо особено интересно в тази книга.
долара на фондация "Ранди" на всеки, който демонстрира (пред свидетели и в контролирани условия където е сигурно, че не мами), че притежава каквито и да е свръхестествени способности.
до сега никой не е прибрал наградата...Та тази книга е първата му и е посветена на...
В началото на книгата Ранди казва, че "в тази книга ще ги удрям здраво", но нищо такова не прави.
Няма анализ, няма обяснение как точно се правят мошеничествата (а Ранди е професионален илюзионист и ги вдява тия работи), няма съвети как да ги преебем, няма лично мнение, няма...
I first heard Teller (from Penn and Teller) speak of James Randi and Flim-Flam in an interview concerning magic and scepticism.
Randi is a great illuminator, and his writing has a charm that Dawkin's simply does not.
Probably not something I'd recommend out of the blue, but if you've stumbled upon this review, you're probably interested in the content matter and I can say this book was in no way disappointing.If you're unsure what the book is about, search James Randi in Youtube, and you'll get a pretty clear idea what his schtick is.
Isn't it odd that a book this old is still accurately portraying the tricks that these charlatans use to fool the credulous?
How have we as a society become so blind to reality that we allow these charlatans to take advantage of us at our most vulnerable?
Many of those tested honestly believe in their power but one would think that when the tests have proved otherwise and the explanations for the phenomenon that they couldn't understand are given, they would walk away with a better understanding of just how easily we fool ourselves.
Instead against all sense they choose their belief over reality mostly because the lies are so much more profitable.
James Randi is known to many as a stage magician but because of his work with CSICOP, his million dollar challenge and his book Flim Flam!
Flim Flam is a riveting account of Randi’s efforts to shed light and bring a bit of reality to the world of the paranormal.
The book focuses on many of Randi’s specific experiments and analysis of various charlatans but can be used as a great tool to learn and/or improve one’s grasp of critical thinking.
This failing is not limited to those who seek to prove paranormal phenomena; there are also examples of such wishful thinking in the annals of orthodox science.James Randi Flim Flam!
My love got me this book along with a few others of his for Christmas.
It is a great book!
You seriously have no idea how supposed professionals get stuff wrong all the time and people's desire to believe in the paranormal results in 'Chinese-telephone' style information sharing about paranormal claims...as Isaac Asimov calls it, "The Deadly Misinformation."You will also learn a bit about 20th century history and how the field of parapsychology is fraught with kooks, frauds, and half-wits.
You'll learn some very interesting things indeed!
On that note, I hope your curiosity at that last statement leads you to read this book cover to cover.
I'm sorry to say that this one was a little bit disappointing, mainly because it's a bit outdated.Most of book is a review of the several tests that James Randi carried out in the 70's under the Paranormal challenge.
Most of the stories I have read, listened or seen on different blogs and You Tube, so none of them were really new to me.
A great quote at the end of the book sums it all:"Throw away the Tarot deck and ignore the astrology column.
They are products offered you by charlatans who think you are not the marvelous, capable, independent being you are."
I really wanted to like this book a lot. Parts of it were great, but it all got a little bit pedantic, and I felt like rather than showing the reader how to out-think flim-flamery it was mostly about how great the author is at it. I think Carl Sagan's A Demon Haunted World is a much better choice for that. Also there were no unicorns.
Flim-flammers must hate James Randi, especially the ones that half-believe their own hype like James van Prague. I think John Edward knows he's faking, and the pet psychic is just pathetic and self-delusional.
the book is a bit older the scams are the same as ones going on at present. Randi unmasks frauds and conmen who pass off pseudo science nonsense. It is a classic for a reason. Well worth the read to add to your BS detector.
Muy bien detallado y documentado, a veces demasiado para un lector impaciente, una lectura un poco especializada, pero realmente muy buena en su área.
Excellent expose' of pseudoscience and woo.
Randi’s thorough discussion of the Cottingley Fairies is useful for a basic grounding in how such hoaxes and scams come to be widely believed.From there he goes on to refute the then-widespread belief that there was something particularly deadly and sinister about the Bermuda Triangle, using such odd things as facts and shipping records.
As a big fan of James Randi and skepticism in general I have heard this book mentioned many times and finally had an opportunity to pick it up.
Although I enjoyed the numerous accounts of Randi debunking people who claim to have some sort of paranormal or psychic abilities I was disappointed by how outdated the book was.
It's amazing that so many of these people who claimed all these amazing abilities were not treated with more skepticism and tested with proper controls.
Still no one has been able to prove any paranormal/psychic ability and claim the prize.
For example, Chapter 7 relies heavily on he-said-she-said 'evidence', the likes of which Randi would criticise immediately if it came from the other side.
In Chapter 13, Randi describes an experiment in which he admits it's extremely important that a camera is running at all times, with its view uninhibited.
Then he admits that it was not, but says it's fine because the camera didn't miss anything important.
It was interesting, and I think it has plenty of really strong arguments - especially those that don't require us to take Randi's word for it.
