https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119.The_Lord_of_the_Rings
I read this book and finished it actually quite a while ago and it was an invaluable resource for writing parts of my dissertation.
Besides that it's also genuinely a really wonderful read with reference to all sorts of excellent concept art, costume design and quotes from all areas of the team who worked on the Lord of the Rings films.
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)The Art of The Fellowship of the Ring is one of the three art books for The Lord of the Rings. The other two being The Art of the Two Towers and The Art of the Return of the King. Also available in one condensed edition of these three art books is The Art of the Lord of the Rings.The review you read here will be roughly the same as the ones for other books.The three volume collects over 500 images each, consisting pencils sketches, paintings and sculptures. Thes
Also available in one condensed edition of these three art books is The Art of the Lord of the Rings.The review you read here will be roughly the same as the ones for other books.The three volume collects over 500 images each, consisting pencils sketches, paintings and sculptures.
The artists talk about the English and European influence on their sets and architecture, compositing photos and matte painting, techniques used to create the rich and seemingly authentic world, costume designs and other elements of the film.The books provide a great insight into the amount of art and details required to produce a movie — three actually — of such massive scale.
Now at the time of the films release (which I guess was repeated with the release of the subsequent two sequels) there was so much material released about the film, the story even about Tolkien himself it seemed you could not look through the front door of a book shop without seeing something about Lord of the Rings.However now after a number of years (including the release of the Hobbit) attention has moved on elsewhere and the draw of the books has diminished, at least it has for those who are not diehard fans or people who appreciate a good book.So the books are about the art of the films - from concept to final design with the odd production shot thrown in for good measure.
Lord Of The Rings is a great series especially fellowship of the ring.
Frodo, Sam, Gandalf, and so many other main characters, set off on a adventure to get rid of the one ring that controls all.
But Gandalf is afraid that the ring is going back to the dark lord a.k.a Sauron.
Frodo doesn’t know strider and he wants to take them off the beaten path after hearing stories of the ringwraiths.
Strider becomes a epic ranger in the story and saves Frodo, Sam, and two others many times.
IF you want a good read READ THIS BOOK!
This was my favorite book of all time!
Gandalf is amazing, You sall not past Vs the balrog of moria
La verdad que para los fans de Tolkien, de P Jackson y todo lo relacionado con El Señor De Los Anillos estos libros son impresionantes pero si encima, como yo misma, has estudiado bachillerato de arte son la reostia.
Algunos apartados son mas interesantes que otros .El apartado de lugares son unas imágenes que te desean estar allí!, el vestuario te demuestra lo mega currados que están todos los detalles, las armas a mi es que me flipan y para mi el mas aburrido son las criaturas porque te enseñan doce mil orcos y veinte mil balrog...pero aún así los espectros y algunos mas son dignos de mencionar.
I am almost through the book- 4 chapters left!The only thing that I despise and adore about J.R.R Tolkien is his love of description and the language he uses.
The book draws on with no need for certain description and needs of description, but the language draws you in and hooks you to the setting, characters, and theme.Though it may also be because I saw the movie before actually diving into the literary world of the hobbits, I enjoy the creativity that rushes from the pages like waves (pun hehehe).
4.5/5 starsBrief remarks: Pretty cool, overall. I have read the LOTR Trilogy & the Hobbit AT LEAST once/year for over 15+ years...it was a neat chance reading this part with the film based art included! I think I'll look for the rest of the set & check them out as well.My only complaint is I could only find it in a "real" book at the time (versus ebook) & I find myself no longer good at actually picking up a true book & turning pages; how pathetic is THAT?! Lame.
I am currently reading lord of the rings fellowship of the ring this is a really good book I think the author did a really good book surprisingly he wrote this before the hobbit I think the author did a really good job of telling the landscape and characters I am now moving on to the second book I gave this book 5 stars I recommend this book to any one who likes fantasy happy reading!
This book is great I could not stop reading it
good
In the village not far away from the forest they met mysterious man who brought them to the save city where four other people from different countries and species volunteered to help Frodo.
Main heroes travelled through many cities, villages, and countries on the continent called Middle-Earth in the Earth like world known as Arda.
Personal Connections: This book relate to me because I overcame fear like Frodo when he agreed to go to the dangerous journey.
This fantasy book connect to people more than some books about real world.
Kindly, he let me keep it long enough to actually read and enjoy it.Obviously, the vast majority of the book is taken up with sketches, designs and production photographs but the accompanying captions are fascinating.
After years of seeing people banging on about the amazing landscapes in New Zealand, it's interesting to see just how many of those tourism-driving wide shots are based on composite shots and matte paintings.
You're a fraud, New Zealand tourist industry!!Around half of the book is devoted to the film's locations and set design but to me, the most interesting are the character sketches and the maquettes for the orcs, trolls, Uruk-Hai and the Balrog.
A lovely book with interesting tidbits from the FotR movie, I enjoyed reading it and seeing the pictures. Overall, very well-done and included stuff that isn't covered in the "appendices" of the DVDs.
Loaded with original sketches from John Howe and Alan Lee; it’s really great how they worked to keep the visuals for the films accessible and not delve too much into “high fantasy”.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Vamos, que de haber podido me lo hubiera leído fumando hierba del Viejo Toby (y yo ni fumo ni na xD).
Im like more the movie.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
THERE SHOULD BE MORE BOOKS LIKE THIS
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
This official publication contains 500 exclusive images
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
