https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/914608.Treasure_Island
Rules for writing a great book:Someone near and dear needs to die.There can be no going back – it is crash through or crash time.Some of the good guys have to have near fatal flaws – some of the bad guys need to be damn charming.
Oh Long John Silver, what a great character.Mortal danger – lots and lots of mortal danger.And the most frightening character in the book needs to be someone who would normally be the least frightening.
What a pity I waited until I was 45 to read it.In high school, when I was a bit obsessed with Lord of the Flies I was told that book was based on this book.
Just finished reading this classic adventure story to my twin 7 year olds.
When I was a boy, the original unabridged version of this story caught my eye and I read it along with Kidnapped, Ivanhoe and various classic adventure novels.
They liked the pirates and Jim Hawkins role in the adventure from his thrilling fight with Israel Hands to has role in freeing the ship and obtaining the treasure This version, with its illustrations is very good for kids because they can follow along with the story.And its a great story with a pirate map, treasure, mutiny, pirates, gun battles and the like.My kids have been exposed to the internet in some small ways, and movies and television, but this classic adventure novel still left them thrilled and we polished it off in a few short days.There are plenty of books out there for kids to read but sometimes the old classics have not lost their touch.
sitename] http://www.karmaforlifechick.com http://www.karmaforlifechick.com/book... My Review Audrey is a fourteen year old with an anxiety disorder that governs her life. With the help of her therapist Dr. Sarah, progress is slow and her family's support is everything. When Audrey meets her brother's best online gaming friend, Linus, an unlikely connection and Audrey finds new courage through Linus. Sophie Kinsella was wonderful with this book. With anxiety in kids on the rise this book is a gr
sitename] http://www.karmaforlifechick.com http://www.karmaforlifechick.com/book...
My Review
Audrey is a fourteen year old with an anxiety disorder that governs her life.
When Audrey meets her brother's best online gaming friend, Linus, an unlikely connection and Audrey finds new courage through Linus.
Sophie Kinsella was wonderful with this book.
With anxiety in kids on the rise this book is a great read for someone who wants to understand what anxiety looks like.
Sophie Kinsella tells Audrey's story with compassion, humor and empathy, never losing sight of the story of Audrey's struggle.
Connect with Sophie Kinsella
@KinsellaSophieInstagramOfficial iPhone apThis review was originally posted on Karma for Life!
Fun read with the kids. Jackson really liked it, June wished it was more of a girls book. :)
From Goodreads: Kumme to Amish country, where the simple ways of life lead to hope and healing. Katie Miler is traumatized after her boyfriend is killed in a van in which she was also a passenger. How will she find her way out of the valley of her depression? Freeman Bontrager will make any excuse to be near to Katie, hoping to win her love. But how far will he go to gain her trust. . .and her heart? What will bring this girl out of the shadows of fear, and open her heart to life—and love?My Re
You find yourself rooting for Katie all the way.Like the previous book this book provided insight into the Amish lifestyle which I enjoyed.
It also does not gloss over difficulties such as a woman spreading gossip about Katie which we can all relate to.This is a book that I would recommend to anyone wanting to get a glimpse into the Amish way of life and for those looking for a sweet inspirational and or romance.This review was originally posted on Adventures in Never Never Land
While reading the novel Treasure Island, the author displayed different themes through each events.
Deidre Laiken is trying to tell readers to enjoy and have an adventure while reading this book because you can relate to the certain things that Jim goes through and become interested in setting your own experience of life.
Overall, this book has events that lead up one after the other, making you want to keep reading to find out what happens next .This novel also allows readers to set of onto an adventure with Jim and his shipmates to discover the secrets and treasures of Treasure Island.
It helped the reader understand the story by having pictures that goes along with the text.
The only bad thing about this book is that it doesn't really make you feel like you're in the story but overall, the author states the setting and the surroundings of the characters pretty well.
Another bad thing about this book is that some of the chapters are very short.
Even though some of the chapters are very short, it still has a great meaning to the story which is what most readers want to read about.
This was a very suitable book for me which was what I wanted.
One day a man comes to the inn for a bit but he stays for a wile he said to call him Bill.
Then a couple of days later a anther man comes his name Black Dog. Black Dog said he was looking for bill and he was a friend.
Then one stormy night a man comes to the inn and he warned them about a one legged pirate and gave Jim a map.
Will Jim and his friends find the treasure you will have to read to find out.I like this book because it has action and it is fun to read.
LaikenWell to be really honest here, I chose this book because I didn't have anything else to read in my drawer and I kind of like Around The World In 80 Days.
In the beginning, old captain Billy Bones walks into Jim Hawkins' family inn and asks for a place to stay.
It turns out that old Billy Bones had a treasure map that puts Jim into a bunch of trouble.
64 because it is showing how murderous and brutally savage this "Captain Flint" was.
I would recommend this book to pretty much anyone because it is an awesome classic.
My #1 favorite story. :)
“Treasure Island” an amazing book written by Robert Louis Stevenson, is a crazy action packed book about a crew of guys trying to find some treasure on a deserted island.
A bad group of pirates is trying to get the map though, and other people are too, so it's a big fight to try and get the map and find the buried treasure.
I did like some ways a lot though, because it reminded me of the book The Swiss family Robinson which is my absolute favorite from the series of the great illustrated classics.
I think this because some parts in the book the bad pirates, and the good guys have to bargain together.
First Date: Okay, this could be a really hot date! I enjoyed the introduction to this new world of Chloe Neill's, filled with fae and plenty of other paranormal critters, and set in the sultry city of New Orleans. While it wasn't the fastest-paced beginning (hey, not a bad thing when it goes slow at the beginning. Anticipation is all part of the tease.), I really got into Claire's life in a post-apocalyptic New Orleans. It wasn't as hard-hitting a beginning as the Chicagoland Vamp series (hard
Anticipation is all part of the tease.), I really got into Claire's life in a post-apocalyptic New Orleans.
It wasn't as hard-hitting a beginning as the Chicagoland Vamp series (hard to top an attack and being turned into a vamp right off the bat) but Neill's writing talent shines and whispers sweet promises in my ears.Second Date: I'm a sucker for a Southern story, especially one filled with magic (or, in this case, hidden magic, as anything magic-related is illegal in this post-fae-invasion world).
Bring it on!") You can enter THE VEIL Grand Prize Giveaway,which runs July 27 through August 7 onChloe’s web site!
THE VEIL bookmark, sticker, and pen 
Treasure Island was not one of my favorite books, but one thing that really got my attention was the adventure and mystery. Though I got lost in some parts of the book, my attention was also grabbed through most parts. Even though I did not give this book 5 stars, I feel like a lot of people would enjoy this book, so yes, I would recommend this book to my friends.
He asked of the boy to watch for any other pirates looking for him and tell the Captain as soon as possible.
The boy agrees but soon the Captain would lose money as he had to pay them to stay.
The Captain had also been paying the boy for telling him when someone came in.
I liked this book a lot because it never had a dull moment and knew when to speed up and slow down.
I didn't like the book because it had a little bit of a long climax I felt as if once it got to the top it go down for a little while.
I just finished watching the series Black Sails, and I wanted to refresh myself on the story of Treasure Island.
Another great read aloud with my boys.
a classic. I'll read this to my kids in the future for bed time.
This is a great series for young readers.
This was a fantastic adaptation that condensed the original in a complete, easily digestible way and threw in a few extra illustrations.
Donna Tartt is a very talented writer, her stories make you feel like you are there, with the characters, experiencing everything they are.The story is about Theo Decker, a 13 year old boy whose mother dies tragically in a explosion at an art museum.
Getting involved with a Russian/Polish schoolmate, he begins to do drugs at a very young age, only to have his black cloud of doom follow him into adulthood.Oh the Goldfinch, how I love this book, and I have absolutely no idea why I like it.
Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson is about a boy named Jim. One day when Jim was tending to the customers in his fathers inn the doors swung open and in stepped a man who practically had rags fort clothes what happened next Jim didn't even realize what was happening until it was to late.
Find out what happens to Jim and the man with the ragged clothes.
I though this book was nice because it had adventure feel to it but i didn't like it because it was slow in some parts and them other parts in the book it was boring, in the begging it was slow and not very much happened until chapter three.
Maybe my expectations were too high, but I only found this book to be okay.The opening of the novel was where I started to lose my excitement for the story.
It is definitely a standalone novel, and the ending was quite interesting when Rock had Nettie challenge this world where control is exerted through show ratings and audience appeal.
If this had been a dystopian trilogy, I could look forward to getting to see the world outside of Bliss Island in future books.
As a standalone, the story felt like it never fully developed an interesting plot.Maybe I've just read too many books and it takes a lot to surprise/interest me.
Laiken (adapter)Illustrator: AJ McCalisterGenre: Historic (Realistic) Fiction Theme(s): Fiction, Adventure, Island, Pirates, TreasureOpening line/sentence: “I am writing this story about Treasure Island on the request of my friends, Squire Trelawney and Dr. Livesey.”Brief Book Summary: Professional Recommendation/Review #1: School Library JournalGr 3-5-Stripped down from the original, this version reads smoothly enough for younger readers to get the plot and essential characters straight and the oversized format gives the story and pictures import.
They might even read the whole story.-Susan Hepler, Burgundy Farm Country Day School, Alexandria, VA Copyright 2003 Cahners Business Information.Professional Recommendation/Review #2: Publishers WeeklyThe Scribner Storybook Classic line adds Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island, abridged by Timothy Meis, with vintage illustrations by N.C. Wyeth.
My Review: In a mood for a good Middle Grade and I think I picked up a good one, a few slow parts but some really cute characters and a robot goldfish. Lots of humor and some intense moments this was just what I needed for a fun read. Alice was a super cute MC and her friends Carl, Noel, Josephine and Goldfish were the perfect companions on this trip.  Towards the middle it sort of hit a slow spot, I had a hard time staying focused but since I enjoyed the characters I pushed through.  World bui
My Review: In a mood for a good Middle Grade and I think I picked up a good one, a few slow parts but some really cute characters and a robot goldfish.
Lots of humor and some intense moments this was just what I needed for a fun read.
Towards the middle it sort of hit a slow spot, I had a hard time staying focused but since I enjoyed the characters I pushed through.
I enjoyed this book, it was fun and funny.
This book would be great for 12 and Up, Adults would enjoy this book also.
Argh! Great book!
He was a little awkward at times, but that just made him more adorable.• Cream of the Crop is not Clayton's most hilarious book (that honor still goes to Wallbanger), it is still funny and there are quite a few ridiculous moments to get your laughs in.
I also loved that it provided the tension between Oscar in Bailey Falls and Natalie who resides in NYC.
They are such contrasting places and I enjoyed their fish out of water experiences.• Natalie and Oscar are cute together but other than their great physical relationship and love of cheese there didn't seem to be much for them to go on, but by the end you see there love and you know all will be well.Overall Cream of the Crop is another fun read from Alice Clayton!
One day a strange man walks through the door.
Jim finds a key on his neck and opens the captains chest and finds a map.
He goes to a nearby friend the doctor and tells him about the map.
Jim and the Doctor set out to find a ship and crew.
They found the crew and set sail.
Jim tells the captain and Doctor about the plot.
After long days of serching they finally found it but the Doctor had a trick up his sleeve and scared of the traders so they could have all the gold.
Our boys enjoyed the classic story, but the adaptation left something to be desired.
It is hinted at, but the adaptation focused instead on the chases and near escapes.
Jim Hawkins is impulsive and foolish, which presents good topics for conversation with the kids.
His actions endanger so many good men, even while turning out well in the end.
A profitable question, then, do the ends justify the means?Two words we learned about in this book: mutiny and drunkenness.
Be prepared to answer some questions on this because there are few chapters where alcohol consumption and over-consumption are built into the story.
I choose "Treasure Island" because I thought it had adventure, which did, and a friend recommended this book.
The young boy realizes that the crew he was with was evil so he tries to escape and get the treasure himself.My favorite qoute from the book is " For I can still hear the sharp voice of Captian Flint still rining in my ears:," "Peices of eight!Pieces of eight!"and this show to me how after a long period of time Jim( the young boy)remembers his adventure.
I would recommend this book to kid at age 8 because the book makes people have images in their heads and the book is not to long.
