https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53524.The_Principle_of_Relativity
I was floored by this work. If taken slow I feel that any person of reasonable intelligence can understand the concepts that Prof. Einstein puts forth on the laws that govern time and space. This monumental work is, to me, less like science and more like poetry.
This is IT!
The beautiful thing about science in the original is that, while the results may not always be correct or as clearly expressed as they might be, you do get the original philosophical arguments that led to the theory in the first place. This is especially true of Einstein. To me, he is clearly a philosopher in his original papers, both in his unifying view of things and also the argumentative techniques he uses.
Reading the original papers that made Einstein famous is a treat. His remarkable concision is especially inspiring.
You call it telepathy. The strategy of Albert Einstein (1879 - 1955) made him a good student.
This book is a collection of papers by Lorentz, Einstein, Minkowski and Weyl that laid the foundation of the Special and General Theory of Relativity.Collecting these papers in a book give the reader an appreciation from what problems and ideas the theory developed, instead of getting it ready-made in a modern textbook.For Special Relativity, this works fine.
Though Lorentz paper is barely readable, Einstein writes very elegantly and explains in very simple term his ideas.
In fact, today's textbook expositions of Special Relativity are still very close to Einsteins exposition.Unfortunately, it does not work quite as well for General Relativity.

The Principle of Relativity is a tough read of a concept that is difficult to grasp. I had the benefit of help and insights from my classmates over the few months we wrestled with Einstein. I admit I experienced several false 'Aha!' moments along the way. Eventually I did manage to successfully conceptualize the fundamentals of the theory before my class moved on, but I had to revisit Einstein's work several times on my own to gain a deeper and more useful understanding of relativity.
Include an intro to minkowski space time coordinates
