https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1437766.For_Love_Alone
Indeed, look at the poster for the (by all accounts awful) movie that got made of it: This, like the front cover of the VMC edition (why could we not have had one of those wonderful paintings!), not only misrepresents the novel completely, but gives you no indication that this is a complex, passionately argued work which deals with issues of sexuality, gender and power which remain of great importance.
I always remember those wonderful lines of Rosalind's when I read that sort of thing:  "The poor world is almost six thousand years old, and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person, videlicet, in a love cause.

This is the third novel I've read by Christina Stead. Her writing is fierce, intense and exhausting and her characters are vivid and sometimes grotesque. This novel conveys an amazing impression of Sydney in the thirties and provides a very rich portrayal of the difficulties and frustrations faced by a young, intelligent and sexually aware woman in that era. A great Australian novel, in my opinion (though maybe not for the faint-hearted).
That's the main reason I read the book, I was promised modernist sense of place, so I guess it wins on that score.- Good lord Christina Stead's descriptions of the depressed cynical prospectless academic dude.
Which, I'm pretty sure, was not the reading Christina Stead wanted me to take.- The final love plot was very ???.
it's like Stead didn't know what to DO and rushed the ending, or something.
Still, I like the idea that the time to fall in love with your pseudo-husband is after some strategic adultery.
I can't rate this one as high as "The Man Who Loved Children" (by the same author) for lack of virtuosity and Jonathan Crow is absolutely insufferable, but I do think it is interesting how this novel depicts a female heroic journey, especially since it was written before the rise of women's lib.
This, I believe, is one of the greatest pieces of Australian literature ever written. Its scope and timlessness is superb, and its structure is astounding.
Absolutely brilliant tale of a highly-strung young woman who allows herself to be lead-on by a sour misogynist.
Like Alasdair Gray's Lanark, For Love Alone is *two*, two books in one: the Sydney half plays like 'I Capture the Castle' under the hard stamp of experience ..
which will only intensify when our heroine Teresa Hawkins begins a new life on the other side of the world.
Stead's keen eye captures withering, occasionally hilarious, portraits and psychologies: of Teresa herself, of the moody and irresponsible Jonathan Crow (who passes through its pages like some gaseous D.H. Lawrence construction), and American Businessman in London Mr. Quick.
For Love Alone is a beautiful and unflinching achievement.
A profound book, delving into the nature of love and sex from a rough and heavy hand of the internal moral landscape.
However at the root of the story telling is an ageless ness which explores the terror and the ecstasy, forbidden territory and the selfs need for acceptance or rebellion by societies status quo.Granted this book could take a little to get into.
It is indeed a story telling through psycho analysis.
And well worth pushing through as the character releases the shackles of self suffering and isolation, to find a new freedom, for Love alone, the one true master.
Two things made this novel a painful experience: I) Jonathan Crow was intolerable & II) I am repulsed by fiction where the author introduces a major character toward the very end (Quick).
