https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17701.More_Adventures_of_the_Great_Brain
Again, lots of laughs or tears, depending on the chapter. Lots of boyness. And lots of crazy exploits from Tom. There is a ghost story in this one that worried the littler boys, but all ended well. And there was a KISS. Oh, the horror!!!!My sons would tell me the 'moral of the story' or explain why what Tom did was wrong so I wasn't too worried about them becoming little hoodlums after reading this.
While Tom, the middle child Great Brain, is bound to appeal to upper grade elementary school children, the sweet nature of this particular book reminded me why adults will also love the series.
The transformation of Britches Dotty, a motherless girl, uneducated and raised to dress like a boy, was the sweetest story in this book, while the story of the children and adults of Adenville coming together to mourn the death of well loved mongrel dog was equally redeeming.What a perfect book for parents to read to children!
Highly entertaining. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2017/05/th...
3.5 stars Personally, I didn't find this book as enjoyable as the first. It's a little milder and a little more predictable. But the familiar, lovable characters are still there, and Tom's "great brain" continues to get him into sticky situations. I really liked the subplots of Britches Dotty and Old Butch's Funeral; they were pretty creative, and added warmth to the story. But aside from those stories, the book felt a bit dry to me. But it's still a decent book, and of course, there are still those great Mercer Mayer illustrations!

I've probably read this entire series over 50 times in my life so the 5 star rating should come as no surprise.The characters are amazing, the storytelling is unsurpassed, every chapter tells a new story of "The Great Brain"...The Ghost of Silverlode, Britches Dotty, Tom scooping Papa's newspaper and the list goes on.In my opinion any and all of the Great Brain books are the peak of children's literature. I've read them to my kids, my wife loves them and of course I re-read them whenever I can.
If my memory serves me well, all of these Great Brain books are fun and interesting, but I was pleasantly surprised that some of the adventures and schemes in this book involved helping people out. The Great Brain helps a girl learn to read, and rescues his family when their dad gets them lost in the mountains. There are a couple classic mischief stories too. This is good fun for kids and grownups alike.
My boys can't get enough of these books. They even have started accusing each other of having a "great brain" when they feel one is trying to take unfair advantage or "swindle" the other. Lots of fun stories about boys being boys in a day when you could explore and have adventures, as long as you got your chores done first and were home by dinner.
I love these great brain stories. They are really funny, and yet have some really sweet moments. My six year old and I read this one together after reading The Great Brain and loved it just as much. Our favorite part was the ghost town. Oh, and the funeral for the dog. Great books!
We loved this book just as much as the first! Surprising because we usually like one better than the other but both the 1st and 2nd book were so engaging and the reader Ron McLarty does a fantastic job. Listened to this while taking Auntay home...krb 3/13/17
All of the Great Brain books are charming, delightful stories to read to your kids. Very cleverly thought out and written. Fun reads.
I thought this was an amazing book! I love how funny and intriguing it is. This book seems to suck you into reading more and more. I recommend this for everyone who loves funny books!
If you need an awesome kids read, this is it!!
Funny, light, and a engaging read for children between the ages of 6-13.Tom is a genius, and the entire town of Adenville suffers from his pranks from time to time.
All kids have lost toys, and other items to Tom, but he is about to pull one of his largest swindles yet, and it will leave his father speechless.
Join the Fitzgerald brothers as they solve a crime and capture a ghost, all in the span of one summer!
The adventures just keep coming, and the brothers never disappoint on the shenanigans pulled..
** spoiler alert **Di akhir buku pertama aku mikir2, ini klo T.D. akhirnya tobat gini trus buku kelanjutannya mau nyeritain soal apa?
Beneran deh, tobatnya T.D. ini tobat sementara bahkan termasuk dalam rencananya untuk mendapatkan sepeda sebagai hadiah natal wkwk.Tapi akhirnya di tengah-tengah bukui ni, T.D. berjanji pada ayahnya, ga ada aksi tepu-tepu lagi.
J.D. ini lugu banget dan pernyataan-pernyataannya sering bikin ngakak.Suka deh sama setting buku ini yang jadul.
Nilai-nilai yang dipegang sama anak-anak ini sangat...
Misal, klo anak cowok main sama anak cewek artinya sissy :P.
Ada satu lagi, ngakak baca cerita dua perampok yang nangis histeris gara-gara ketauannya sama anak-anak kecil.
Beyond that and a general memory of finding these stories highly enjoyable, I don’t remember which specific books I read or much in the way of details from the stories.
However, after reading this book, I suspect that this was one that I read as a child, since so many of the details seemed familiar to me.These stories are fictionalized stories from the author’s childhood, and focus on the antics of the author’s older brother Tom, aka “The Great Brain.” Set in Utah in the late Nineteenth Century, the antics of these boys will probably have parents of boys everywhere nodding as they see their own son’s behavior mirrored here.
In addition, this book seems to condone lying, cheating, and swindling as long as you do not get caught; these are not positive attributes to be teaching children.
It also makes numerous pointed statements about how Mormons are rude, unaccepting, and too numerous for the good of the general population.
It might be helpful to read this book to children if the goal is to teach them about what people used to think about women and other faiths like Mormonism, but I would not feel comfortable having a child read these things alone without being able to teach them what is wrong with this way of thinking in today’s world.
And now I can add a maternal perspective: I appreciate that this book takes my kids to an era where there were no video games, chores were a given, and free-range parenting was just called "parenting." Bonus that it's set in Utah and my kids can take in the local history they won't get in church.
This story is set around turn-of-the-century rural Utah and told by Tom "The Great Brain"'s younger brother, with much of the humor coming from his naïvete in narrating the various ways in which his scheming older brother takes advantage of him and other kids.
I read the books out of order to my daughters so we finished with this one.
It has all of the things I love about the Great Brain books (my fav children series) and avoids making the Great Brain too ruthless and money grubbing as some of the later books do.
We have the creative and engaging stories with Tom (the Great Brain) solving a robbery, uncovering the mystery of a ghost, and my personal favourite, the Great Brain teaching a girl how to read.
This whole series is amazing and should be on any parent's reading list for their children.
I think I might love this Great Brain book better than the first in the series.
My children love to shake their heads at his antics and unabashed pride in himself.
The stories of childhood at the turn of the century are awesome.
When I think about the freedoms I enjoyed as a child and then compare them to what my parents had it still isn't close to what the children enjoyed then.
I don't know.Our whole family loved this book.
Was childhood more fun at the turn of the century?
Fitzgerald site makes me think so.
These are the further adventures of a young boy in Utah growing up with an older brother who had a “Great Brain.” The younger brother served as the narrator; he glowingly described the various ways “The Great Brain” managed to deceive or outsmart others into doing his bidding.
But helping a crippled schoolmate learn to walk eventually caused The Great Brain to repent his devious ways; it looked like the fun was over.
However, The Great Brain scaled back his repentance, and as book two commences, the party is on again.
This is another very funny book.
Fitzgerald's The Great Brain series, and More Adventures of the Great Brain in particular, is such that I may have given it the 1970 John Newbery Medal, even over a story as solemnly lovely as William H.
I love this book, and have thought fondly of it many, many times in the years since being introduced to it by my fifth-grade schoolteacher, musing over certain tales and remembering how much fun they were to read about.
I definitely need to get back to this series again someday, as I'm not finished; in fact, I'm not even halfway through, as of the time of this writing.
The great brain named Tom always swindles kids out of everything that they have.
Once he tried to scare a kid named Parley Benson.
He claimed that he was very brave so Tom said that if Parley showed up at the mouth of skeleton cave then Parley was brave.
Skeleton cave was like a labyrinth and a lot of kids died because they were lost.
Tom decided to make tracks in the dirt to scare Parley away.
But some grownups found the fake tracks and thought that they where from a prehistoric animal.
these stories are based off the life experiences of author John D Fitzgerald with his older brother.
Set in the late 19th century, these stories follow the adventures of the young clever swindler Tom Fitzgerald.
Tom is a typical boy that will bamboozle his friends, solve any mystery case, help save the town and never shy away from a challenge in the changing 19th century.
I enjoyed reading a classic 1970's book that my parents had read.
These short stories are great comedies and will test you brain, the brilliant Great Brain outwits his friends, his parents, and you
Monsters, the taming of wild children, when Papa got lost!, Tom scoops Papa's newspaper, the death of the town's dog, and a hair raising episode of "The Ghost of Silverlode," combine into lighthearted stories that amuse and illuminate the hopes and fears of children the world over. A fun, family read, particularly good for boys.We have now finished reading it for homeschool, and my son is hooked! Books 1-4 are a little challenging to find, and 5+ even harder. I shall have to start looking, as our entire family enjoys these stories!
I read this aloud to my younger children (boys ages 11, 9, 8). They loved it. Fitzgerald is really a smooth writer who tells a good story that lends itself well to reading aloud. If you want stories that mimic the insipid sensitivities of today's pomo, pluralistic culture, look elsewhere. If you want stories that your boys will enjoy that communicate strong masculine virtues, give The Great Brain a try.
This is a great book, and the authors brother, of whome the story is about, is even more fascinating. He claims that he has a great brain that makes him smarter then any one else and he uses that to swindle kids out of there possesions. He is my most fav. character to read about this year. His plans are ingenious and are funny to read because they are written by his brother, the author, J.D. Fitzgerald.
More Adventures of the Great Brain, Juvenile fiction, By: John D. Fitzgerald The Great Brain can do whatever he sets his mind to, and sometimes he can swindle his parents into getting him what he wants. I think that More Adventures of the Great Brain is a fun book. My favorite character is the Great Brain. My favorite part is when the Great Brain's older brother calls him "Old Man" (because he wants annoy him) and Great Brain says, "Ok, Grampa."
What would it be like to be able to trick the whole town? Well in this book More Adventures of the Great Brain Tom is back to his old tricks again. One element in this book is humor there are lots of great funny tricks in it. Another great element is that even though it is in the same town there are some parts where they go some where else. One more element is point of view some characters like John would Overall this book is a great book for all ages.
Alex is enjoying these just as much as Jonathan did. Can't believe books 4-7 are out of print! We're hunting them down through inter library loan. Both boys are appalled at how many fistfights there are, and in awe at the amount of freedom boys their age had in the 1890s. They wouldn't trade lives, though. They think all the gender rules back then were ridiculous. The book sparks great discussions while they enjoy the story.
I liked this one even more than the first. I love his style of writing. It makes you feel comfortable. It's like he's at your house, telling stories over dessert. I loved the dog funeral. It made me love Tom.This is the last of the series I can find on CD. I'm sad about that, and the kids will be too. I'll need to read them the rest, I guess. And find something to listen to in the car.
