https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205330.There_Was_an_Old_Lady_Who_Swallowed_a_Fly
5 SILLY ★'sOh. My.
Goodness.
This is another one of my favorites from back when I was a kid.
There Was an Old Lady Who Swallowed a Fly is a goofy lyrical book that was rewritten from a 1940s American folk poem by Simms Taback and is also a Caldecott Honor Book.
There is a hole that's cut out of each page to reveal the eaten animal in the old ladies belly.
It's such a fun and silly book that kids love.
It's a book you can truly have a lot of fun with that for sure.
Simms Taback has done an excellent job at writing this story as it sounds upbeat and is creative, especially when he states about why the old lady swallow one animal after the other.
Also, parents might want to talk to their children about he difference between reality and fantasy, especially since this book was not meant to be taken seriously and the things that the old lady has done does not really happen like that in real life.There was an Old Lady who swallowed a fly” is certainly one silly book that children will love for many years.
This little story is a folktale from the 40s, didn't know that. I enjoy the art of this book. You get to see the animals inside her stomach. My nephew asked for this book again last night.
My children were eating dinner when I read this to them and my 5 yr old was disgusted and my preschoolers were fascinated.
The book wasn't quite the old folk song that I remembered and I was a little disappointed.
Certain verses were repeated twice and I'm not sure why.
I tried to guess at the pictures, wondering if perhaps there was a reason they were repeated due to the imagery in the cut out holes not matching up, so another page had to be added, but it still didn't seem to make sense.
Overall, it was okay, but nothing that truly touched me or my children.
Caldecott Honor 1998:This American folk poem was first heard in the US sometime during the 1940's. My children enjoyed the bold, whimsical, illustrations because a hole was cut out of each page to reveal the eaten animal in the old ladies belly. It's a goofy, silly book with a great moral: NEVER SWALLOW A HORSE!
If you want a great book to go along with the song, this is the one for it!
The illustrations in this book were made by using art media and collages on Kraft paper.
Also, when it comes to the items that the lady swallowed or has swallowed, they are hidden in the picture on the page before or page after.
Which makes it awesome for the children who are interested in how many animals there are and how many different types of a certain animal there are.
In the end, we all know what happens with the old lady.
This book is perfect for a young reader, first because it is rhyming.
rhyming books are perfect for new readers because it helps them associate letters to certain sounds.
A child would definitely enjoy this book because it is so silly and "out there." The illustrations go along perfectly because there are silly and kind of just thrown together as well.
all of the different bugs and things she swallows are pictured very humorously within the book.
I could make a fun activity out of this book in my classroom.
the kids can create their own bugs and things that the old lady swallowed...
Love. Doing a lesson on this book tomorrow!
This children's book is a creative illustrated story about the old lady who swallowed a fly.
The storyline of this book is that the old lady ate insects and animals that kept increasing in size.
When you read the story out loud, you find it catchy and start singing along.The main character in this story is the old lady.
The old lady is the one that swallowed the fly, spider, bird, cat, dog, cow, and the horse.
She said she loves this book and could read it everyday!
I LOVED this book! Oh my goodness, I was having the time of my life reading this to my son and singing along while he looked at the pictures. And the ending - she swallowed a horse and died. Do you know I'm still laughing at that? It's true, it's soooo true.Anyway, I think I may have to buy this book for my son....so I can continue to laugh every time I read it.
This is one of those books that my daughter made me read three times in a row, she just loved it. The rhyme is slightly different from the one I knew in childhood, but, it's pretty close. I love Taback's illustration style for this book with the cutouts. I'm glad I bought a copy. This is one of those books that you can read really fast if you're trying to be extra silly. We had fun reading it.
Although the woman does die the poem is playful, and with such arrhythmic rhyme scheme one cant help but sing along.Talback’s pictures emphasize the strange, somewhat creepy, totally weird content of the poem enabling a picture book which is not only fun to read but entertaining for readers of all ages.
By allowing the pictures to act along as part of the illustration themselves, enabling strangely place notions of reality, expressing voices for once unheard characters and depiciting an old women whom is as entertaining and creepy as she is plump, Talback allows the poem to carry on to another generation of readers while still entertaining previous generations.
Summary: From cover to moral (never swallow a horse), this cleverly illustrated version of an old folk favorite will delight children.
As for the old lady, with her toothy grin and round bloodshot eyes, she looks wacky enough to go so far as to swallow a horse.
Thanks Amazon!Audience: Ages 5-9Genre: Picture BookUse: Independent reading, shared reading, read aloudLiterary Elements: The pattern of the lady's dress, with its patchwork of bright, torn colored paper pasted on black, is used as the background motif for the words.
The text is handwritten on vivid strips of paper that are loosely placed on the patterned page, thus creating a lively interplay between the meaning of the words and their visual power.
An old lady has swallowed a fly, and continues to swallow more animals, which lead back to trying to catch the fly.While the text in the book may be difficult to follow, children would really love the pictures!
Half of the pages have black backgrounds, which helps the reader focus on the pictures.
They help tell the story, because as the story progresses, you can see the growth of animals in the old woman’s stomach, as well as the total growth of the woman.
Overall, the pictures do a great job of accompanying the text.
Wonderful illustrations make this book a great story for the kids. The cutouts and busy pages add a lot to this old ditty that has been passed down for generations, something I remember from my own kindergarten days. We also enjoyed watching the pages animated to the song as sung by Cyndi Lauper on a Scholastic Storybook Treasures DVD. It included seven other sing-along songs with animations of the illustrated books.This book was selected as one of the books for the February 2017- Caldecott Honors 1998-2002 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I remember this book from when I was in elementary school.
I remember that our librarian would read this to my class for several years in a row and I loved it.
I think kids would very much enjoy it because of the rhyming scheme from all the animals.
Also, it's very entertaining because they know that a lady could never swallow a cow or a horse or any of those objects in real life.
I think the holes in the pictures are also neat and they add a different kind of element to the story compared to a book with just regular pictures.
This is one of my favourite children's stories, I always have way more fun with it when I sing along rather then just read it. The kids at work always chime in and sing along. The Illustrations are bright and funny and the children seem to really love them.
My 4 year old son loved this book. We have read it several times before bed. He cracks up at the rhymes. And loves the little illustrations.
Sophie's New favorite!
An all time favorite. I love this book. Teaches kids animals.
When my children were little, they loved Taback's books. We read this over and over. The illustrations are amazing and the little asides along with the illustrations bring a lot of humor to the familiar song.
85% = 5 StarsI'm not too wild about the illustrations but I love this book! It's fun! It's ridiculous! It makes you want to be goofy. Thumbs up.
We found this at the library, the cover is unique and the title captivating for Julia so we read it.
We've talked about family members dying or who have died.
When I pick up a story, especially one that's supposed to be a light, fun read, I don't want to have to talk to 'maybe she'll die' over and over.
So, we read it again, her because she thinks it's hilarious and me because I wanted to try it with the 'perhaps she'll die' line in it.
They'd probably be so into that part of the book they don't even hear the words anyway to be honest.
This story was one of the Caldecott Honor Medal winners in the year 1998. This adaptation of a 1940’s famous folk poem was illustrated with ridiculously accurate drawings that were humorous and enchanting. It followed a dilemma an old lady has after swallowing a fly. Secondly, she swallowed a spider in hopes of removing the fly. Third, a bird to catch the spider. Fourth, a cat to catch the bird. Fifth, a dog to catch the cat. Sixth, a cow to catch the dog. Ultimately, a horse in hopes of catchi
Secondly, she swallowed a spider in hopes of removing the fly.
Third, a bird to catch the spider.
Fourth, a cat to catch the bird.
Fifth, a dog to catch the cat.
Sixth, a cow to catch the dog.
Ultimately, a horse in hopes of catching the cow.
This story is funny and will captivate both children and adults attention.
And with this rendition of the original poem with Taback’s exaggerated depictions, makes for a much sought out story for little kids.
Excellent read for pre-schoolers and an amusing story-telling time for adults who offer it.
It is overall a cute and funny book that is meant for entertainment.
The old lady is a character, that’s for sure, and the book really encourages students to read along because there is a lot of repetition.All students would enjoy this book, but it would be best for Pre-K through third grade.This book is meant for entertainment, so there is not a specific subject that this book focuses on.Students interested in this book would be students who enjoy humor.This book would be better read to the whole class rather than in small groups.There are many “The Old Lady Who…” books.
Published: 1997, Scholastic Age: 4-8This is a great interactive book to read or sing with children over and over.
The hole in the pages showing the expanding stomach of the old lady and the silly things she swallows will capture children's attention.
Older kids will like to read the asides on each page.
The wide googly eyes of the characters, the matching confetti on the pages, and the mixed up font are all eye catching.
The pages make you want to keep looking for quirky pictures such as the artist crying at the end.
The moral on the last page can be skipped or added.
There Was an Old Lady Who Swallowed a Fly is just a good funny book! Children will love this funny story and the interactive illustrations. I would use this book in the classroom to practice rhyming language with the students by letting them complete some of the sentences or just asking them what rhymes did you hear in this book. Not only is this a silly book young readers will enjoy but students will learn without even noticing!
This book was crazy. But then again...the whole little poem itself is a little off. I liked how the illustrations kept right along with the little old lady, who continued to swallow the must absurd things. And of course, at the end, what more can you expect? The colors in this book were bright and bold. I’d recommend this book, it was cute and fun to read. *Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I love this book. I think the pictures in here are phenomenal. They are very colorful and detailed and go with the story perfectly.This book has a lot of humor in it and keeps everyone guessing what animal the old lady will eat next. I think all ages of kid will think this book is silly and enjoy it.
This book was great for teaching repetition and rhyming. Children will love it. It is quite silly and will provide laughs and giggles all around the classroom. Teaches a moral.I did not like this stories ending. I mean she ACTUALLY dies.. o__O I was disappointed haha
