https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1375600.Kabloona
I sought to live the Eskimo life, not to measure it with instruments of precision.Despite these people living with Stone Age technology, they impressed Poncins immensely with their joy of living and successful adaption to the seasons: The Eskimo, preeminently a nomad and sea-hunter, is driven by the need to feed his family from point to point round an irregular circle, and it is the revolution of the seasons that directs his march.
This is such a book.In 1938, Gontran De Poncins, a Frenchman, decided to live with the Eskimos for more than a year.
Throughout the book he makes incredibly un-PC (and ultimately hilarious) remarks like "Properly speaking, the Eskimo does not think at all." He portrays the Eskimos as barbarians, disgusting, dimwitted, capable of incredible laziness, unfeeling, communist rat bastards, yet he turns around and praises them often for their physical grace, zen-like composure, and miraculous zeal for life in unbearably harsh conditions.
It makes me think of that Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience book I read last year, and how true some of what it said about happiness was.
He sent me an sms one afternoon, copy in his hand inside a Booksale branch, asking me if I have read "Kabloona" by Gontran de Poncins.
Emir Never, who takes eons to finish a book and sometimes even NEVER finishes them, read this in less than a week's time.
He did not just travel to a place and see men and women in their unique culture, He travelled back in time, back to the Stone Age, lived it, understood it, loved it, and gifted us with this book so we might also learn, and wonder, and look at ourselves in a completely different light.A book conceived by fate, which I finished in record two days, the first book which made me whisper "thank you," feeling the burden of a tremendous debt of gratitude not to Emir Never but to its author and his literary collaborator, Messrs.
Gontran de Poncins arrives in King William Land, in the Canadian high arctic, as an anthropologist who appears bent on describing the peoples he encounters there in terms of the differences between them and those where he comes from.
Ironically, as a result of de Poncins' own preconceptions, the early sections of the book become as much an anthropological study of an early 20th century French anthropologist as they are of the Netsilik people of King William Land.However, I get the impression that the book was written from the notebooks he kept while he was there, and he seems to write in a voice that is faithful to the mood he felt in the moment he describes.
A five-star is probably generous (wish we had the ability to give books 1/2 stars, since this would get a 4 and 1/2 stars from me), but I so thoroughly enjoyed Monsieur de Poncins and his breezy way of evoking the Arctic region and its inhabitants.
Probably some will cringe at the way he calls the Eskimos "savages" and "primitives" at times, but he always does so with a recognition that their environment necessitates a sharp distinction from that of the "refined" and "civilized" world M.
Primitive languages have a directness which long gone out of the subtle and metaphorical terminology of civilized speech.
de Poncins is often insulting in the way he perceives his hosts, considering them to be Stone Age people who are less "evolved" than himself, while at the same time expressing appreciation for their adaptable nomadic lifestyle.
My favorite part came near the end, where de Poncins speaks of sledge-traveling as "reading from the Book of Silence" (what a beautiful expression that is!) - how he and his Inuit friend have become so in tune that they are "reading" the sky and the landscape and the dogs for signs, and they stop when they need to adjust the sledge or the pack - all without speaking, knowing what each others' thoughts are because they are reading from the same book.
I read this book years ago and would never have found it except it was part of a terrific series of books republished by Time/Life. I got a whole bunch of excellent works that way, which I probably would not have discovered elsewhere. Originally written in 1941, it describes an Inuit village and family as authentically and as sympathetically as possible. Highly recommended to everyone.
Poncins took the perspective of the Eskimos, and as a result he, Kabloona (the White Man), took seriously what they did.
Snow, I discovered, is not white!" (p 56)While the Eskimos called Poncins Kabloona, sometimes in derision, they proudly called themselves Inuit ("men, preeminently").
This is demonstrated over and over in the book as Poncins tells of his experiences with the Inuit against the background of the harsh nature of the Arctic."Everything about the Eskimo astonishes the white man, and everything about the white man is a subject of bewilderment for the Eskimo.
In 1939 this author left France and went to northern Canada to spend a year with the remote, mostly untouched, eskimos.
His observations (and lack of judgement) on the eskimo culture are wonderful.
One white guy said to him, "These eskimos is no good" and the author writes, what he really meant is that the eskimos are not good at being white people.
His descriptions of day-to-day life are so real.
Of course, I see many parallels to observing life in Tonga.
In fact "Kabloona" is the eskimo word for "white man" (or "palangi as my Tongan connections will know).
Of course, three things aided the modern day allusion; first, it was read to me (on my ipod) by a modern audio book legend, Grover Gardner; Second, the setting is timeless, the remote wild's of the Canadian Arctic, and finally; I assumed the charming French-to-English translation was to blame for forcing just a hint of formality.
The story begins with Panches leaving Paris to live and study among the most remote tribal people on earth, the Canadian Arctic Inuits.
Light a fire, and read this adventure book during a cold snap.
Imagine a time in the arctic before wooden houses with heat, snow mobiles, telephones, television, internet.....
only snow and ice as far as the eye can see.
Need a house?
Chop up snow and build one.
Every page of this "adventure" journal brings the details of an arctic, hunter community to life.
The sounds, the smells(!), the repetition, the exhaustion of it all, and the contentment of the Inuit with their way of life.
His details about the personalities and ways of living were shared as he participated.
I experienced each of his days through his journaling.
Faaaaascinating! The reasons are threefold. First, the Inuit way of life observed and duly chronicled by the Vicomte Gontran De Poncins de Montainge. Gontran De Poncins himself, aka "Mike" A French aristocrat adventurer cum amateur anthropolgist and natural diarist. His experiences, observations (sometimes profound, often profoundly racist)and sketches come together as a vivid, candid, and insightful narrative. Finally the work itself as witness to the colonial context and inner workings of the colonial mind set. The language is at times repugnant to the modern reader, but a priceless illustration of the colonial psyche.
Okay, I mentioned my top five books on the North when I wrote about Nunaga. Kabloona is one of those top five books. I even have the audio cd's of this book (which I will also try to recommend). If you want to know the details of a westerner (an outsider or "kabloona") living among the indigenous people, this is a wonderful place to start. Amazing. Remarkable. Extraordinary.
I first read Kabloona about 10 years ago - I gave it five stars.
Since reading, "The Last Gentleman Adventurer: Coming of Age in the Arctic", I have reread and reassessed M.
Poncins' book on his Arctic experience.
Unlike Edward, who always kept his focus on the Inuit, Poncins seemed to be far more interested in himself.
Still, for all that, Kabloona remains an interesting read.
That there were major differences between Edward and Poncins did not matter as much as the huge difference between their respective books.
Edward's book goes on my all-time favorites shelf, Poncins' does not.
"I know only that some time before that spring day the word Eskimo had rung inside me and that the sound had begun to swell like the vibrations of a great bell," he writes.With the assistance of the Catholic Church, which had missionaries in the far north, Mr. de Poncins makes his way, slowly and laboriously, to Canada, and then from Waterways to Goldfields to Coppermine to King William Land to Pelly Bay. As he travels farther north, he leaves more and more of civilization behind, until he lands in a settlement of igloos and Eskimos who have seen only one white man in their lives, the Catholic priest who lives in a ice-hole cut into the side of a hill.
From stuff I have read in the past, the experience of living with more primitive people always makes the civilized visitor reflect on materialism and happiness.
The "primitive" people always seem to have a higher quality of happiness, community, and a better ability to live in the moment.
The Inuit are also too busy with the 24/7 work of survival to philosophize about questions like that.
A lot of time in "the civilized world" is spent thinking about people we don't like.
I think Poncins would say that, to our surprise, that would be a happy moment.
Putting himself into the hands of an Eskimo hunter who happened to be heading off onto the sea ice, he underwent an extraordinary odyssey lasting the winter through, in which he camped with the Eskimos in their winter igloos.de Poncins takes us into the very private, very communal world of these northern people.
It is into this ageless community that he takes us for a very privileged glimpse of the last of the true ice-dwellers.Although a French national, de Poncins chose to remain in North America and he wrote his text about the Inuit in English, in collaboration with a friend.
Somehow this small passage is so moving to me -- After being almost completely isolated from the Europeans for almost a year, he was about to meet a French priest near the arctic!
However, at the first sight of his countryman, he found himself running over, tears in the eyes, grasping the hands of the other, uttering in his native tongue: Father, here I am, a Frenchman, coming to meet you...
(Tears in my eyes too at this point) But this is only one of quite some moving moments in the book.
A French nobleman spent 15 months among the Inuit in the 1930s.
A hundred years from now people will be appalled by some of the opinions and practices that we find unremarkable today.
The narrator here is fine.Summary: In this classic of adventure, travel, anthropology, and spiritual awakening, de Poncins is a French nobleman who spent fifteen months in 1938 and 1939 living among the Inuit people of the Arctic.
He is at first appalled by their way of life: eating rotten raw fish, sleeping with each others' wives, ignoring schedules, and helping themselves to his possessions.
Some would dispute the status of this work as a "travel book." I do not agree.
Monsieur de Poncins was a Frenchman, immuring himself shortly before WWII in the most northerly culture of all, that of the Arctic Inuit.
De Poncins lived with these people when they still faced the daily, traditional struggle with extremes of climate.
He learned how to live on raw blubber fat when the sun wouldn't rise for another six months.
He went on to write a number of other books, none of which, to me at least, measured up to what he achieved in this work.

I found this a fascinating listen though somewhat dated since it was written back in 1941. His racist, evolutionary views are very clear. He imagines that he has changed vastly as a result of his experience, though I find this hard to believe based on his own writing. He seemed very self-focused at the beginning and seemed very self-focused at the end while imagining and describing how much he has grown as a result of the experience.
I read this book 10 years ago and never could get it out of my head. I had to read it again, recommend to to everyone, and own it. The author, the most interesting man in the world, changes as he lives with the Inuit. His insights on people, their environment, and relationships teaches him and us that underneath all the exterior trappings, we are more alike than different. One of the best books I've ever read.
Frenchman goes to live with Inuit in Canadian Arctic in the late 1930's. His accounting of the travel, culture, customs, etc. I loved it when I first read it in the 1960's and recently re-read. I'm thinking this is more of a man's book (not trying to be politically incorrect or sexist, just my thought)-primitive lifestyle and misunderstandings that take place when modern man meets aborigine.
It was a shock to read @ Wiki that the author submitted ~1K pages about his Inuit experience to Time-Life Books, & an editor there created this volume's text. It's very readable, almost Hollywood at times, but consistently interesting. It's simply appallingly racist (Eskimos dumber than dirt), pub date 1941.
it would have been really cool to have been an Inuit in the 1930s trolling this guy
As he reflected on his time in the Arctic, he remarked, “My year in the north has not been, as I thought it, a year of conquest of the elements, but of conquest of myself.
The sun’s rim was on the horizon, but it seemed not to be rays from the sun that brought this light; it was self-created, mysterious, universally present without a source of radiation.” This book could never be published today, as it would certainly be deemed insufficiently deferential to the native peoples.
It's a chance to test our own assumptions about hardship, sex, gender -but especially money, it turns out that when no one has much of anything money isn't that important!Spoiler alert: guys like Harari are wrong, the hunter-gatherer life is not something you want.I especially admire the author for capturing his moments of frustration when he does not come off in the most positive light.
They in turn can't handle the white man's tech and become angry - much like I often do when I can't get something to work on this damn machine.So why only four stars?
As you read this book, keep in mind that the author made this trek in the 1930's. You will get to journey with De Poncins and observe in close detail what he observed. It's fascinating to watch his own opinion and respect for the Inuits as he settle in to live in one of the world's harshest and most unforgiving evironment. This book left a lasting impression on me. I suspect that if civilization finds a way to come to an end through some catastrophic man-made disaster, the the Eskimos will inherit the earth and thrive.
I’m so happy I found this book. It’s a fascinating look into Inuit life back in 1939. It was so well written and made me feel like I was actually in the igloo or on the trail with the author. I highly recommend this book to everyone. A big 5 star rating from me!
