https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16071745-someday-someday-maybe
yet is constantly floundering - she's in danger of losing her waitressing job, her auditions never quite go as planned, others around her seems to be getting all the breaks.Despite, at times, loving the narration, I felt Franny's asides started to weigh the story down and some scenes took a while to get through.
I guess I love Graham's writing and the charm of it all, but wanted more from the story.
A breezy kind of chick lit read which I couldn't help but cast Lauren Graham herself as Franny.
It seems like every review I read for this week's read for Lauren Graham's Someday, Someday, Maybe --is prefaced by the same caveat: I am a HUGE FAN of (insert one or all of the following: Lauren Graham, The Gilmore Girls, Lorelei Gilmore, Parenthood).
Anyway, um, the book is about an actress in the 90s who's tall and beautiful and has unruly black hair and is struggling to make it in New York, and man, don't you hate it when people just assume that your main character is you?And without even waiting for Lauren's pretend answer, I knew I wasn't going to get the interview, and that maybe that was a good thing.
After a bump in the road reading this (my precocious 12 year old daughter had some kind of issue with me, she must have been in trouble so badly to hide my book!
It was enjoyable, like meeting a funny girlfriend you've been looking forward to catch up with for a coffee, or something similar.
We follow Franny Banks journey to make it big in NY, she's trying to break into acting and has given herself a three year deadline, and we meet her when it's just about up.
A definite must read for her fans, I think you'll see Lauren Graham's easy funny bantering nature shines right through.
Lauren Graham is brilliant!
I picked up this ARC primarily because I wanted to see if Lauren could be as witty in her writing as she is in her acting and as she appears to be when she is interviewed.
Once I crawled out from underneath all of my Buddy Reads and I was able to sit down and focus on just this one, I couldn't put it down.
It was absolutely, without a doubt, not something that I would normally read.
Lauren Graham has done it to me again.
If you get a chance to read this in the future...puh-lease do yourself a favor...DO IT!
2.5I don't know much about Lauren Graham, having never watched Gilmore Girls, and though I do love the awesomeness that is Parenthood, her character more gets on my nerves than anything else - and so I wasn't expecting much by way of this book, and I was not disappointed.
The dialogue tries too hard, Franny tries too hard, and the characters are all cliche, whether it's the bookish, Luddite dad or the hyper verbal writer roommate or the shallow competition in her acting world.Graham also endeavors to create dramatic irony and I just feel like that's a device that should not be tried at home.
Sometimes I just want a little light entertainment, and Lauren Graham’s debut novel, Someday, Someday Maybe sounded like just what the doctor ordered.
It was absolutely everything I wanted and more than I expected.Someday, Someday Maybe is the story of aspiring actress Franny Banks.
The novel details Franny’s travails personally and professionally as her deadline looms.
It’s quite interesting being inside Franny’s head, hearing her thought process, as she taps into the emotions she needs to convey.
It’s easy to empathize with the likeable Franny and to root for her to succeed.One of the greatest pleasures of the novel is the humor.
The main character here, called Franny Banks is very likeable, and it's very easy to simply picture Graham herself as the lead, whether it is supposed to be drawn from her own life I'm not sure, but if you're buying this book because of her name, chances are you will picture her while reading too.
Overall this is a well-written, well-meaning, easy read from a great actress who has seemingly succeeded in a field where others have failed, and I hope it goes on to be a success for her.
(That's saying a lot, because I have an infant son that requires lots of energy.) When I started reading, I was looking for Lauren between the lines, thinking, "I wonder if this happened to her when she was just getting started," "I could picture her saying this," etc.
This book is funny and embarrassing and sweet and just overall wonderful.
I'm rambling now, but that's because this book made me think of so many things while I was reading it, and that's a good thing.
Note: I received a free copy of this book through Goodreads's First Reads program.
But quitting, is the last thing on Franny's mind and for some inexplicable reason she believes that everything will fall into place and all her dreams will come true.The beginning of the book was a tad bit slow, as in there was little to no movement in the storyline, but Lauren Graham's witty, entertaining narration totally makes up for it.
“I must work harder to achieve my goal of not seeking approval from those whose approval I'm not even sure is important to me.”Her roommates are both solidly developed characters as well - the sassy best-friend from school, Jane and the brooding, slightly nerdy struggling sci-fi writer Dan, both of whom are always supportive to Franny's acting career.
As the deadline draws closer she wonders if she will be forced to make good on that promise.Narrated by Franny herself, I could hear Lauren Graham’s voice telling the story and picture her in this role.
This story shows the pitfalls in the acting life as well as the various types of people Franny meets, the kind, the superior, the manipulative and the downright sleazy.
I found it an amusing read, though I did wonder if fame was worth the price some actors and actresses pay to try and achieve it.
I read this because it got decent reviews and, as a fan of The Gilmore Girls, I was curious about Lauren Graham as a writer.
The book is about a 20-something recent college grad trying to make a go of an acting career in NYC.
Those quirky, nervous-energy-fueled long speeches were usually entertaining on The Gilmore Girls but in written form I found myself skimming over them in order to get through the book.
I also spent a lot of my reading energy wondering how much of the Lorelei Gilmore character was Lauren Graham vs.
This was just what I needed after reading a couple of very heavy books (two in a row with drowned children, how does that happen?).
Lauren Graham delivered the audio version exactly as I am sure she intended when she wrote the words--in the same deadpan style with which she delivers her lines on Parenthood.
Like many little girls, I spent many idle hours wondering what kind of actress I could make and what I'd change my name to when I became a star.
Listening to Franny's adventures, flops and failures made me glad mine were just childhood fantasies and nothing more.
A very enjoyable, fun book.
3.5 stars.
An uplifting story of what it takes to manifest your heart's desires. Lauren Graham writes with passion, soul, and honesty. Plus she's freaking hilarious. You'll love this journey of an aspiring actress finding her way in New York City circa 1995...complete with Filofax pages written and doodled on by Lauren.
All I could do after turning the last page of this effervescent debut was to hope that Gilmore Girls and Parenthood star Lauren Graham will adapt her first novel to the big screen, or even pen a sequel. My extended 5 star+ review is available on MINA'S BOOKSHELF http://minadecaro.blogspot.com/2013/0...
Known for her humourous and emotional on-screen performances in Gilmore Girls and Parenthood, Lauren Graham is one of those actresses who really feels like she is the characters she plays: she's funny, she's strong, and she's the girl you want to be best friends with.
Because of my love for her as an actress, I had very high expectations of Someday, Someday, Maybe and I'm glad to say that they delivered.The novel is written in first-person from the point of view of Franny Banks, a young, talented actress who is trying to get on Broadway.
I won't summarize this story -- you can read other reviews or the book blurb to know it's about Franny Banks, an young woman trying to make it in New York, in acting.This was chick lit at it's finest.
The story of a young woman navigating her heart and dreams.
Graham avoided most of the chick lit pitfalls a la Sex and the City (thank goodness) but wove a story with witty dialog, strong descriptions and my favorite, symbolism!
Enough to know Franny was on her way to finding her destiny.
I loved who she ended up with romance in the end.Well done by Lauren Graham.
OMG I MUST HAVE THIS BOOK! I love Lauren Graham!
Even though I'm not a huge fan of Lauren Graham, I was very interested when I heard she had a novel coming out and jumped at the opportunity to read an ARC of Someday, Someday, Maybe.
Because this book is about a pretty brunette trying to make her way as an actor in the mid-90s, it was especially easy to picture Ms. Graham as the protagonist and to wonder throughout how much of the novel is autobiographical.The novel follows Franny Banks, a girl in her mid-twenties whose self-imposed deadline of showing-progress-or giving-up on acting is looming in six months.
the type of friends who love ya to bits and know how to cheer you up/have some fun.There is some romance in the book but it's not the main focus, more in the background.
The ending is a bit abrupt, it feels like we end mid-century (a happy one) somewhat but there's a hopeful vibe in the air and it makes me smile to think things may happen for Franny after all.I hope she writes more about Franny sometime, I would love to know how things turn out for her.Would recommend, happy reading!
DNF at 45% because it was just so damn boring.I've read the reviews and I'm honestly stumped at how everyone else can hear Lauren Graham's voice shining through the story but I've completely missed it.
Franny Banks is quirky, sure, but not particularly witty or funny.
Her story is BORING - I'm sorry (not really) - we've all read/watched/heard about the starving aspiring actress trying to make it big in NYC despite the odds.
There is nothing new about this story and Lauren Graham doesn't add anything to make it special.I'm bored.
I'm glad that I took it out from the library...
A charming, fun voice and enjoyable story.
I liked the narrator from the first page.
I've been a Lauren Graham fan since Gilmore Girls.
"Casting" her in the lead role as I read increased my pleasure.
Franny Banks is an aspiring actress, trying to make it in NY, coming up on her self-imposed deadline to achieve success.
So many of her challenges resonated with me felt similar to the writing life--being offered representation by an agent only to have it fall through, her insecurities, and disappointing sure things that just don't work out.
I enjoyed her friendships with her roommates, Jane and Dan and touch of romance.
Parei de ler praticamente na metade e parei de ler porque o livro estava completamente morno e tudo indicava que não iria ter nada impressionante. Não é ruim, mas é bem mais do mesmo de romances contemporâneos. Talvez seja uma leitura que me entretenha mais em outros momentos; por agora não parece fazer a menor diferença na minha vida \_(ツ)_/
Parei de ler praticamente na metade e parei de ler porque o livro estava completamente morno e tudo indicava que não iria ter nada impressionante. Não é ruim, mas é bem mais do mesmo de romances contemporâneos. Talvez seja uma leitura que me entretenha mais em outros momentos; por agora não parece fazer a menor diferença na minha vida ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Her boyfriend from college is in Chicago studying to become a lawyer and even though they are on a brake from their relationship, if things don't work out in New York in the next six months she is willing to move-in with him and try something different.One night after a theater showcase at her drama school she lands a new agent and a TV appearance, also the cute actor from her class just asked for her number, so for the first time in a long time things are looking up , until...The idea of the plot and the writing for this book were both great, my problem was with the heroine, she was a bit too neurotic for my taste and I got distracted a lot because she would spend too much time inside her head, I mean this book had too many pages of her inner thoughts and I really didn't feel like she evolved or learned anything from her struggles .
And if you are a fan of Lauren Graham, and the type of zany characters that Lauren Graham often plays, then you will probably like this book, or at least enjoy protagonist Franny Banks.I will also say this for the book - I absolutely believe that Lauren Graham wrote it without the assistance of any sort of ghost writer.
But it's not anything more than that, and trying to pretend otherwise within the text of the story itself feels pretentious.Other than that, my main criticism is that the frequent allusions to Diane Keaton (who Lauren Graham mentions as the first person who suggested she write a book) feel a bit gratuitous.
And if that stranger happens to be Lauren Graham, at least it's a good story.
The MC clearly fits her to a T, even down to her speed talking and quirkiness that you can't help but love.
In Someday, Someday, Maybe we follow Franny as she attends acting class, auditions for Soap Operas, lands gigs for commercials, and interviews with agents.
There is also a bit of a love triangle between dreamy James Franklin (James Franco is 10 yrs younger people, it clearly isn't him) from her acting class and her roommate Dan. It's kind of cliche put she pokes fun of it herself.
Franny's dad was definitely my favorite character in the book (however, I can't seem to recall his name since I think it was only mentioned once in the entire novel) and I would have loved it if he was a bigger character.Continuing with the good: A lot of the time when there's a debut author who's successful main job is something other than writing, I'm filled with some trepidation because I also expect some (if not all) parts of the book to be clunky or not that well written.
She’s one of those people who you want to be able to do everything so that you can like her that much more.
Maybe it’s because I live in New York City currently and, though I’m not an actor, have friends who are.
But in general, New York is one of those places that gets under your skin to the point that you want to throw in the towel and move back home and get a sensible job somewhere, but you know that you can’t.
The city burrows itself into your very self somehow and you know better than to try to leave.It’s a bit like an abusive boyfriend, actually.Read the rest of this review  here.
And then wait for the moment when it becomes glaringly obvious that said actor (or celebrity/singer/whatever) has deluded themselves into believing that just because they are good at/liked for doing one thing, they will be a success at another.
It makes me laugh so hard whenever I see an actor quoted as saying they’re “working on their album.”But I made an exception for Lauren Graham, because that is how much I love her (also, I knew that she had graduated with a degree in English, so this sort of thing is not necessarily out of her wheelhouse).
From there, the book is a sort of inside-baseball account of what it’s like to try to make in the biz, dealing with auditions and body image issues and yes, love interests.
Full disclosure: I knew Lauren Graham when she was a freshman at Langley High School, and my most vivid memory of her calls up Lauren, attired in a sheet/toga, standing next to my old friend Allen Stuhl, also dressed in a sheet/toga, as they played the leads in a classroom version of Oedipus Rex.
(Full disclosure again: I have such a memory of just about everyone I ever had the good fortune to teach at LHS!) Needless to say, I am biased on her behalf when she recreates herself as a novelist during her ongoing career as a lovely and funny actor.
I wanted to be more critical of this book, I really did, because - don't get me wrong, I LOVE Lauren Graham - but you know, she's already smart, funny, talented and beautiful, I was sort of hoping she wouldn't be a good writer as well.
But I really got into this story, and the character felt so relatable - even though I'm not a struggling actress or anything - but I could relate so well to her way of thinking and the way she overthought everything.
On top of everything, I quite liked that the story was set in the mid-90s.
