https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400906.The_White_Rose
☠ Buddy reread with the clueless new mercenary recruits Elena and Maria over at BB&B. Under the wicked supervision of our Ever-Stalking Black Company Overlord (ESBCO™), of course ☠Previous rating: 5 stars.New rating: 12 stars. Obviously.➽  And the moral of this reread is : I might perhaps have maybe previously mentioned wanting to be the Bloody Shrimping Lady of Scrumpalaciously Delirious Awesomeness (BSLoSDA™) when I grew up. Well either that or her girlfriend. Or both (yes, that could poss
It's the too-awesome-for-words place where the Black Company & friends hide from the I-want-to-be-you-when-I-grow-up Lady.
That should tell you something right there.►► And the moral of this Crappy Crash Course is: I am omniscient, all-knowing and pretty much perfect ☢ sarcasm alert ☢ but I have to admit I, for once, was wrong.
I mean, you all pretty much worship me, and you must be quite depressed now that you know I'm not as perfect as you thought I was ☢ sarcasm alert ☢ I hope you get over it, and I promise it's the very last time I let you down.
The White Rose (The Chronicle of the Black Company, #3), Glen CookThe Black Company is a series of dark fantasy books written by American author Glen Cook. The series combines elements of epic fantasy and dark fantasy as it follows an elite mercenary unit, The Black Company, through roughly forty years of its approximately four-hundred-year history.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: سرگذشت گروهان سیاه؛ کتاب سوم : رز سپید؛ نویسنده: گلن کوک؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ ویراستار: گودرز
The White Rose (The Chronicle of the Black Company, #3), Glen CookThe Black Company is a series of dark fantasy books written by American author Glen Cook. The series combines elements of epic fantasy and dark fantasy as it follows an elite mercenary unit, The Black Company, through roughly forty years of its approximately four-hundred-year history.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: سرگذشت گروهان سیاه‏‫؛ کتاب سوم : رز سپید؛ نویسنده: گلن کوک؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ ویراستار: گودرز پایکوب؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1394؛ در 487 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821721؛ ؛ا. شربیانی
The tale consists of three different plot-lines which eventually converge.One is taking place in present with Croaker doing its job as the Company's annalist.
Another plot-line takes place in distant past, about one hundred and fifty years ago to be precise.
In the first book it sounded like an evil guy in search for even more power unleashed something bigger than he could handle.
The last plot-lines deals with a mysterious guy called Corby living in a dark place called Barrowlands whose motivations remains a mystery for a major part of the book.
The Black Company & the White Rose are waiting it out on the Plain of Fear, planning their own strike.
As stated The Black Company and the White Rose have made their headquarters in the Plain of Fear and have been hiding out there for some time, occasionally striking at The Lady and her dark forces.
But then Croaker starts receiving packages from an unknown sender, containing an incredible story that might just hold the key to turning the tide of the war.
That is, until the last message does not arrive.And so Croaker is sent on a quest to the Barrowlands, to discover what he can about the message and its writer.
“It is only slightly less difficult for us to extinguish the light within us than it is for us to conquer the darkness.”The black, the white and all shades of grey.
The White Rose takes us first of all to the Plain of Fear, where the Black Company is hiding from the Lady’s minions.
And he shows his mastery in this volume pushing his character through difficult hoops, facing them with impossible choices, and forcing them to consider them issues far more complex than the next prank in the never-ending war between One-Eye and Goblin.Of course, the Author made sure that the reader, even slightly tired of the plot intricacies, is compelled to find out what is going to happen to the Company next.
However now that I’ve finished the first trilogy in the series I’m amazed at how much I’ve enjoyed it and how surprised I was at the end of this book specifically.One of the best things about this series is that it has two very strong and very different heroines competing against each other.
I’m just going to say that I might have a huge crush on Croaker, even if he doesn’t know how to capitalize on a romantic moment to save his life.
This third installment wrapped up the story arc of the North, The Lady and the White Rose.
Since their main weapon, sorcery, is useless in the vicinity of the Rose, they have been going back and forth, finding themselves in somewhat of a stalemate.Time is not their friend and when Croacker begins receiving packages from an anonymous sender of a story connected with his search for the true name of the Lady, things get jostled and zoom into fast-foreword...
The story messes a bit with the perception of time, but it gets clearer as we go.
Buddy read with the seasoned mercenaries and a few new recruits of BB&B.If I could rate this higher than 5 stars I would.
A great many things have been said by people more eloquent than me about this series so I'll just add that every fan of the fantasy genre should read it.I'll start with my only complaint about The White Rose and it has to do with the audio.
The White Rose nicely wraps up the overall story arc and opens up the possibilities for exploring the world further.
This was the conclusion to the first Black Company trilogy and concluded the battle for power between The White Rose, The Lady, and The Dominator.
I was very pleased by how it all played out.
Croaker is as likable a character here as he was in the previous two books.
It was great to catch up with the rest of The Black Company guys.
Boamaz and Corby, the other two new POV characters, were interesting in different ways.
Rating: 4 stars.
It would have been 4.5 stars, but for some reason the book had a strangely slow start.
I loved this third installment in the Black Company series.
It's ironic how I often find myself speechless when trying to write glowing reviews!
But here go a few thoughts: This book brings together a few threads from both previous stories, and makes sparks when it smashes them together.
I loved learning more about the sorceror Bomanz and his part in returning the Lady to power.
The setting was the best yet.
wow, that story is going to stick with me.
Yes, it's grim and dark, but in the best way possible.
An expanded review may follow.
The best book in the series. A fine tale of the Black Company reduced to guerilla warfare in desolate places. Also, the narrative of this book, with three stories from three different periods of time, was amazingly well done. It did not end as I had hoped, or even as I had expected, but it still was a satisfying conclusion to a great fantasy trilogy.Series review from the beginningSeries review from the ending
4.5یه مقدار این جلد کش دار شد. تا نصفه های کتاب فقط نامه به دست طبیب می رسید که هنوز مشخص نبود چی به چیه. ولی یکی دوستا شک و سوپرایز خوب داشت. پایانش پایین تر از توقع من بود. ولی ماست مالی هم نکرد. منطقی و درست بود.و اما شخصیت مورد علاقه ی این جلدم سایلنت. با تمام بی حرفی ها و حضور کمش. کلا شخصیت دلنشینی بود
RTC once I'm back home.
RTC once I get the internet set up in my new house. Lol
The lesser evil triumphs, but there is no HEA anywhere in sight.Most amazing place: the Plain of Fear Biggest surprise(s): the alliance.
Both of them vulnerable, too.- Croaker: as much as I liked him, he would have deserved a smacking for being so clueless!
(view spoiler)[Even in the end, this is what he says: It was almost amusing, the two of us there, like twins, standing guard over women whose hearts we could never have.
Wake up, buddy!:) (hide spoiler)]- Goblin and One-Eye: they took a break in Shadows Linger, but they went back to their antics here- Silent: so sad for him- Elmo: oh no...
What can I say? This was surprisingly fast and enjoyable read! Third book in series, The White Rose was a culmination for all the secrets and mysteries, as well as for the paths chosen by our protagonists in earlier books. Cook also surprised me with some fresh ideas in this one, although I was always ready to admit his capability to create fantastic scenery and characters with magic powers. I don't want to spoil, so I'll just say it was great. 5 stars!
the heart wants what the heart wantseven if what it wants is a mass murderous bitch
Best so far.
A brilliant finale for the first part of the Black Company story known as the The Books of the North.The first half of the book was more about the things that happened in the past and the writer tried to give more background information about the story and the characters but the 2nd half was without a doubt: breathtaking. it was simply the best book of the series so far and a prize for anyone who was a follower of the story and tolerated the difficulties in the past books that made so many reader withdraw from finishing the books.
4.0 stars. Good ending to a superb fantasy trilogy. The Black Company series is one of the most entertaining fantasy series out there. I loved the first two installments, The Black Company and Shadows Linger and thought they set the bar very high for this third installment. Given the expectations, I was a little disappointed (though only a little) with this finale and thought this book was the weakest of the three. That said, it is still an excellent book and well worth the read.
Great ending to the first trilogy of the black company series. The writing style is still a bit tough for me to read but this was the best out of the 3 books. Great action scenes and some interesting twists with an ending promising more to come. Ill give it 4 stars. One star i took away for the tough writing style. Other then that...awesome:)
I've decided that this review will cover both The White Rose and Shadows Linger because they seem to have been written in the same style and feel a bit distinguished from the first book.
In fact, I went right into The White Rose after reading the second book as it didn't feel finished enough.
but, to expand on that thought, this series, and these books, are written in a way that makes you feel like you are there.
Everything finally settled with the last book.Personally I found it the best in the trilogy and very satisfying read.
The story lead us to final battle between the Lady, White Rose and Dominator and also was written from three points of view or to be exact, three stories entangled in one.
We followed Bomanz from the past and his liberation of the Lady, stories by Corbie who followed Bomanz's steps and of course from Croaker and actual timeline.There was lot of twits and unexpected turns as well as guerrilla warfare, magic from its roots with Gods well forgotten but still there (Malazan style), fantastic!
Excellent trilogy, most recommended.
So with this third installement we round up some loose characters and we have a really new direction for the fourth volume.The stakes are much higher this time, like really high, and all the loved characters are back.But the writer still hase some Aces in his sleeves and he didn`t thinked two times before using them.I enjoyed this one as much as the others so there is no hope.
I have to continue reading all of them.Glen Cook it`s a real master at his work.
He has a knack for words, for good action, a good plot or a really good joke.
Another great installment by Mr. Cook!
This book is last in the series of Chronicles of black company and cook has done a good job wrapping
There even was a dragon, an old god with an older story, a parallel universe and a new god (view spoiler)[, the tree's sapling (hide spoiler)] involved.The interleaving of Bomanz' story (the resurrector of the Ten and Lady) fit nicely in the rest of the story - being told as a kind of letter novella with Corbie as sender and Croaker as receiver.The Lady's change over and relationship to Croaker helped much to keep the plot interesting.
(hide spoiler)] Raven gets a nice reappearance - I always was worried about his short handed death in the previous volume, but that is resolved now.After the first 100 pages I'd have given the novel a 2-3 star.
Also, it took me to the end of this third book in the series to finally give over to being "into it", and that is exactly what happened in the Gaunt's series.
I am not sure what causes this phenomenon, but it happens, end of book 3 and I am in, invested in the characters, the story, the future of the survivors.
The series started in the middle of it all, and like a new soldier joining the unit you are struggling with who to care about, and everything is just so big to grasp it all.
I recommend it, the series that is, even though Book 2 was kind of a slog for me.
A fitting end to an enjoyable trilogy.
This book, honestly, was the weakest of the three in my opinion.
He does not waste many words - the books are short and to the point, but cover a lot of ground.
The language is not something I would put down as an all-time-great, but he gets the job done.The White Rose meanders a bit more than necessary, losing it's momentum on multiple occasions and going off on seemingly arbitrary detours.
This works for some book, but it was a bit distracting in this.
The series was enjoyable as a whole.
This is where this series really came through for me. The other books were very much building up to this, and they suffered for it, while this one -- for me at least -- was my favourite. I love the ending especially -- shades of grey all the way, and people actually dying, both things this trilogy is good at.Not really tempted to read more by Glen Cook though, somehow. This trilogy was intriguing and sometimes exciting (though sometimes there were a few too many card games), but it didn't quite have the emotional involvement I tend to favour.
