https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240592.The_Open_Society_and_Its_Enemies
He notes that some of Marx's Ten Points for the early communist party have been reestablished in some Western democracies Not the expulsion of all emigrants, or the confiscation of all property by the state, of course, but free education, and government control or maintenance of transportation.Marxism has evolved since the 19th century, of course, and in some sectors attempts to address the criticisms with are leveraged against it.
Our interpretations of Plato and Hegel have changed, and these old men are not yet dead.In his closing chapter, 'Has History Meaning?', Popper attempts to set out his own historical beliefs, which are a sort of existentialism.
کتابی ارزشمند از یک فیلسوف تحلیلی با ترجمهای عالی به فارسی. کارل پوپر در این کتاب که در اثنای جنگ جهانی دوم نوشته شد به ریشهیابی دو فاجعه سیاسی در قرن بیستم پرداخته است: ۱. ظهور فاشیسم هیتلری ۲. ظهور مارکسیسم استالینی.نویسنده ریشه این دو فاجعه را در افکار نژادپرستانه افلاطون میبیند و مفصلا در مورد فلسفه افلاطون از نظریه فرمها -ایدهها- تا نظریه شاه-فیلسوف بحث میکند. نویسنده با ذکر زندگی شخصی افلاطون و به ویژه دایی او-کریتیاس- و حکومتهای مستقر در آتن پیش و در زمان زندگی افلاطون به ریشهیابی افکار ب
ظهور مارکسیسم استالینی.نویسنده ریشه این دو فاجعه را در افکار نژادپرستانه افلاطون می‌بیند و مفصلا در مورد فلسفه افلاطون از نظریه فرم‌ها -ایده‌ها- تا نظریه شاه-فیلسوف بحث می‌کند.
در عین حال با ریشه‌یابی ماتریالیسم دیالکتیک مارکس در فلسفه هگل و تاریخی‌گری او با استدلال قوی هگل را یک کلاه‌بردار می‌نامد- در ابتدای فصلی مربوط به هگل از نویسنده‌ای نقل می‌کند ٫فلسفه او به قدری فخیم بود که بخش اعظم آن فهم نمی‌شد.٬اما مطالعه این کتاب -از لحاظ سیاسی- برای خواننده ایرانی بسیار واجب است: عبدالکریم سروش روشنفکر ایرانی به شدت تحت تاثیر فلسفه تحلیلی پوپر و نظریه آزمون‌پذیری او در فلسفه علم بود.
Academic bullshit! Completely detached from historical facts. Facts as much more important than opinions.
به حتم خواندن کتاب بسیار مفید و باارزش خواهد بود اما نویسنده با گرایش و دیدگاه خاصی به افلاطون هگل مارکس پرداخته است.
به نظر نمی رسد اصل خود فلسفه افلاطون و به ویژه نظریه مثل و فیلسوف شاه او بخواهد به دیکتاتوری و فاشیست بینجامد.
تعریفی که هگل نیز از روح و دولت ارایه می دهد با آن مقدمات و فرضیات مقرر نیست که به فاشیست منتهی شود یا این که نظریه های مارکس دقیقا به منظور مقابله با نوع خاصی از تمامیت خواهی است که او برعکس معتقد از سرمایه داری شروع می شود.
Wow. That was a book I did not think I was going to get through.
Some parts I just really comprehended easily, some I had to go back and reread.
But I do have this to say, that I agree with Poppers criticism of power,authority, totalitarianism, and his view of an open society.What I think this book did for me, was made me look at my critical thinking better and reasoning ability.Use it as a guide in making a stronger foundation arguments.
It was very thorough and reasoned.A must read for those interested in democracy and civic responsibility,take your time and use the foot notes.
پوپر در کتاب جامعه باز به این نکته اشاره کرده که در هیچ جامعهای «تفکر» بالیدن نمیگیره مگه اینکه شرایط گفتوگوی امن و برابر برای همه از چپِ چپ تا راستِ راست فراهم باشه و هیچکس از بیان چیزی که تصور میکنه هراس نداشته باشه ..
پوپر از مخالفان سرسخت افلاطون و هگل و مارکس و هایدگر بوده چون اعتقاد داشته که اینها نماینده دولتها و حکومت های خودکامه ( توتالیتر) و جوامع بسته بودن ...
در نظر کارل پوپر در سیاست شخص اول «مردم» است و قدرت مردم در جهان مدرن نباید نادیده گرفته شود اما افلاطون یک اندیشمند خودکامه و
پوپر در کتاب جامعه باز به این نکته اشاره کرده که در هیچ جامعه‌ای «تفکر» بالیدن نمی‌گیره مگه اینکه شرایط گفت‌وگوی امن و برابر برای همه از چپِ چپ تا راستِ راست فراهم باشه و هیچکس از بیان چیزی که تصور می‌کنه هراس نداشته باشه ..
در نظر کارل پوپر در سیاست شخص اول «مردم» است و قدرت مردم در جهان مدرن نباید نادیده گرفته شود اما افلاطون یک اندیشمند خودکامه‌ و حامی جزم‌گرایی بود و جامعه بسته رو ترویج می‌کرد و در کل تفکرش سلسله‌مراتبی از بالا به پایین بود اما شاگرد وی ارسطو این هرم رو وارونه کرد در حالی‌که افلاطون مردم رو نمی‌دید و خواستار اداره جامعه با استبداد بود!!!
The Open Society and Its Enemies (The Open Society and its Enemies #1+2), Karl Popperعنوان: جامعه باز و دشمنان آن؛ نویسنده: کارل ریمون پوپر؛ مترجم: عزت الله فولادوند؛ تهران، شرکت سهامی انتشارات خوارزمی؛ 1364؛ در 1396 ص؛
I also got a big take away that collective action while pragmatic in achieving objectives and redistributionist policy permissible and useful under quite a range of circumstances the open society ultimately rests on individuals only individual persons feel the sting of injustice, not the state, or group or a class or race.
While states, classes, groups, or races certainly are issues and can be foci of policy ultimately individuals are the center of a conception of a just and open society.
I think Popper makes a strong defense for liberalism and an open society and to avoid historicist and utopian philosophies of some philosopher kings fevered vision.
El grueso de la crítica radica en que Marx hizo una profecía muy rígida de cómo debían terminar las cosas con la dictadura del proletariado, el derrumbe del Estado y el advenimiento de la sociedad comunista, puntos que los marxistas posteriores han repetido también bastante como si fuera un mantra, sin pararse a analizar demasiado si las condiciones eran las mismas en unos sitios u otros y si realmente esa profecía era cierta (porque repetir mucho una cosa no la convierte en real).
«در هیچ جامعهای تفکر بالیدن نمیگیرد مگر آنکه شرایط گفتگوی امن و برابر برای همه از چپِ چپ تا راستِ راست فراهم باشد.جامعه باز که دستاورد یونانیان است، غیر دینی است. در جامعه باز طبیعت و قرارداد از یکدیگر جدا و زمینه برای رویکرد انتقادی فراهم است.در جامعه باز فردیت انسانها در درجه نخستِ اهمیت قرار دارد و در جامعه بسته فردیت به بهانه وحدت ملی یا وحدت قوم و قبیله سرکوب میشود.اگر راست است که دانش بدون نقد و آزمایش ممکن نیست، خرد حکم میکند که امور جامعه هم به روی نقد باز باشد.»
«در هیچ جامعه‌ای تفکر بالیدن نمی‌گیرد مگر آنکه شرایط گفتگوی امن و برابر برای همه از چپِ چپ تا راستِ راست فراهم باشد.جامعه باز که دستاورد یونانیان است، غیر دینی است. در جامعه باز طبیعت و قرارداد از یکدیگر جدا و زمینه برای رویکرد انتقادی فراهم است.در جامعه باز فردیت انسان‌ها در درجه نخستِ اهمیت قرار دارد و در جامعه بسته فردیت به بهانه وحدت ملی یا وحدت قوم و قبیله سرکوب می‌شود.اگر راست است که دانش بدون نقد و آزمایش ممکن نیست، خرد حکم می‌کند که امور جامعه هم به روی نقد باز باشد.»
An excellent book on the "inner workings" of ultra-liberalism. Don't take this stuff seriously. Read it as a warning.
Come for the defense of the open society, stay for the sick Hegel burns.Popper's work is concerned with the defense of the open society - liberal democracy as a political system, with policies underpinned by piecemeal social engineering with humanitarian aims - against its enemies - totalitarians of various stripes.The first volume deals largely with Plato, whom Popper regards as a genius who lost his moral way, abandoning and then reversing the humanitarianism of his mentor, Socrates, and his generation of Periclean democrats.
However, Popper argues that because of their faith in that revolution, the worker's parties failed to do as much with their power as they could have in the early nineteenth century - that Marxists really didn't have a plan for gradually reforming society because Marx thought that only revolutionary change counted.
Stunning, no longer feel alone!
Een monument van een boek als dit verlangt naar enkele verzuchtingen:Wat ik bewonder aan de mens Popper is zijn zachtaardige maar daarom niet minder diepgaande kritiek op methodisch gebrekkige volksverheffers enerzijds (vijand Marx) en zijn snoeiharde afrekening met pretentieuze volksonderdrukkers verdwaald in eigen gespuide metafysische mistbanken anderzijds.
Het is in wezen een wereldbeschouwelijk boek waarin Popper de wetenschappelijke methode toepast om allerlei invloedrijke orakel-ideologieën (hij heeft het vooral over de term 'historicisme') te falsifiëren en zo het pad te effenen voor individuele vrijheid.
Die kan, zo stelt hij, alleen gegarandeerd worden in een open, democratische samenleving.In die zin vraag ik me af wat Popper van de huidige machtsstructuren van de EU gedacht zou hebben.
Popper mounts many-faceted defence of liberal democracy and its underpinnings against what he sees as attacks on it by Plato/Aristotle (essentialist, authoritarian) and Marx/Engels (historicist).
I'm sure I would re-read more critically now (I am an anarchist), but remain grateful to it for furnishing me with criticisms of essentialism, tyrannical positivism, and historicism, the dubious belief that a certain outcome (revolution) is inevitable, foretold by a discernable pattern of historical events.Popper doesn't only critique Plato & Marx; he also expounds his own (liberal as in John Stuart Mill) position on socio-political philosophy and the whole book is very wide ranging.
The foundations of Popper's well known philosophy of science (falsificationism) and his theory of reason as faith are key building blocks.
He shows how each one failed to live up to democratic values.Socrates, for instance, held an open inquiry method that was well-crafted for the democratic society that had risen up in ancient Greece in the time in which he lived.
While Socrates taught open inquiry, Plato was actually in favor of tyranny.Similarly, Popper offers other arguments against Hegel and Marx.
This book was a revelation to me in that it offered sharp criticism of highly regarded philosophers and thereby opens the world of philosophy to me in a way that traditional laudatory introductions would not have.
Sir Karl Raimund Popper is counted among the most influential philosophers of science of the 20th century, and also wrote extensively on social and political philosophy.
In The "Open Society and Its Enemies", Popper developed a critique of historicism and a defence of the 'Open Society' and liberal democracy.
He was the famous and powerfull enemy for authoritarianism and totalitarianism.
سر كارل ريموند پوپر در شمار فلاسفه مهم و پرقدرت فلسفه علم و فلسفه سياسي قرن بيستم است.
ساختار سياسي پيشنهادي او بر محور قدرت مردم است.
حكومتي كه مردم بتوانند به سادگي آن را تغيير دهند يا واليانش را عوض كنند.
According to this story, man, the highest of animals, is generated by the gods; the other species originate from him by a process of corruption and degeneration.According to the Republic, the original or primitive form of society, and at the same time, the one that resembles the Form or Idea of a state most closely, the ‘best state’, is a kingship of the wisest and most godlike of men.Only a communist system which has room neither for great want nor for great wealth can reduce economic interests to a minimum, and guarantee the unity of the ruling class.Popper's interpretation of PlatoIt is perfectly true that our decisions must be compatible with the natural laws (including those of human physiology and psychology), if they are ever to be carried into effect; for if they run counter to such laws, then they simply cannot be carried out.The decision that all should work harder and eat less, for example, cannot be carried out beyond a certain point for physiological reasons, i.e. because beyond a certain point it would be incompatible with certain natural laws of physiology.Historically, all ethics undoubtedly begin with religion; but I do not now deal with historical questions.

On the basis of my own experience, I can therefore confirm that Sir Karl Popper was right.
In the beginning was an allegedly scientific theory of historical laws; that Marxist theory subsequently gave rise to the Communist utopia, the vision of a paradise on Earth, and the latter eventually produced the gulags, the endless suffering of many nations, the endless violation of the human being.My country is now witnessing a debate about the role of intellectuals: about how important or how dangerous they are, about the degree to which they can be independent, about how much or in what ways they should become engaged in politics.
Absolutely fantastic. A monumental, meticulously argued, and sometimes vigorous defence of liberal democracy based on an original, nontrivial, insightful, surprising, and very convincing description of the tribal and authoritarian aspects that make up the perennial attack on the open society sometimes known as totalitarianism. Written with admirable clarity, this book feels to me as valuable today as ever. I should have read this decades ago.
Political philosophy required reading.
He writes: -"Unemployment insurance, however, means intervention, and therefore an increase in responsibility of the state, and it is likely to lead to experiments in counter [business] cycle policy." And he continues: "But I wish to assert most emphatically that the belief the it is impossible to abolish unemployment by piecemeal measures in on the same plane of dogmatism as the numerous physical proofs that the problems of aviation would always remain insoluble." (p447).There is no doubt, that even in the dark days of the Second World War whence Popper wrote this work, that the lives of working people had improved immeasurably from the time when Marx wrote Capital in the 1860s.
Plato was an enemy of Athenian democracy and his philosophy has provided intellectual fodder for opposing the open society ever since.The Second Volume is a criticism of historicism in more contemporary philosophy, first the conservative type represented by Hegel and then, more thoroughly, Marxism.
And Popper doesn't think that you can give an argument to prove that the open society is right, believing in it is a matter of faith.So, if you are looking for any purpose or meaning in history or politics, it is the purpose and meaning that we decide it will have.
Popper presents a largely convincing argument against teleological historicism, identifying Plato, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Karl Marx as the main culprits for the dangerous role that such a belief played in the political philosophies that, at the time of writing, had led to world conflict and represented, in his eyes, a grave threat to liberal democracy.Unsurprisingly, given the nature and timing of its publication, The Open Society and its Enemies would prove to be an incredibly influential text during the ideological battles of the 1950s and 60s, and, above all else, it is for that reason that it remains such a widely read work.
with this beautifully written and very knowledgeable, devastating critique of Plato's political philosophy.Admittedly, Popper does not try to hide his negative bias towards Plato, but that does not hurt this book.
I won't spell out Plato's philosophy in full here, but the way Popper pieces this together to argue for his thesis is well-worth reading.
The main idea is that Plato, as part of the aristocratic faction, blamed Athens' democratic constitution for the political turmoil it went through in the 5th century BC—this is the familiar Spartan idea that the Peloponnesian War was the result of the growing imperialist might of Athens— and instead wished for a regime modeled on timocratic Sparta, or rather, the sort of ancient tribal-aristocratic regime that even Sparta was only a lesser form of.
Ég skrifaði örugglega 1000 orða afskaplega vel ígrundaða gagnrýni . Í henni komu meðal annarra spekingarnir Hegel, Marx, Platón, Aristótales, Locke fram. Orð á borð við vísindaheimspeki, frelsi, alræði, frjálslyndi, raun- og rökhyggja, vísindaheimspeki, lýðræði, hugtökin opin og lokuð samfélög, útópía, dystópía og mörg, mörg önnur stórmerkileg orð fram. Til að gera langa sögu stutta, hvarf textinn - og leyfist mér að vitna í (í brjálaðri kaldhæðni nb) Trump. Sad! (Lesið samt, frábær bók, sér í lagi síðari hlutinn.)
I definitely found some great thoughts / insights in this tome of a book, but overall it felt very repetitive.
It became clear after the first 300 some pages that there Popper has problems (well thought out and accurate problems) with, as he calls it, historicist thinking.
The belief there's an ideal version of government that we're trying to achieve from the past can lead to some very bad policies.
And all of this could be told in a third of what it currently is.
I'm guessing this was more Popper going after his colleagues than it was to inform the masses.
Capitolul 2 - Heraclit efesianul - cca 500BC - Lumea e constituita dintr-o gramada de lucruri aruncate talmes balmes sub o patura nemasurata, purificata de entropia focului divin.
Vechea lume se destrama incremental si se incovoaie sub sfidarea impostorilor si a stra-stra-stra-etc-bunicilor lor, carpita de unitatea contrariilor.
The art of bitching is perfected.For a loner who died, allegedly burried in shit, seems like society was more of an enemy to him than he ever was to it....Looks like Popper is doing some selective digging here and, to me, Heraclit's strife is akin to Timon's.Have a lemon if you don't like it.
Despite, or perhaps because of, being grounded in reactions to the politics, war and nastiness of the mid-twentieth century The Open Society and its Enemies is an extremely informative and valuable examination of fascism and tyranny. I recommend it for its ability to inform reading of philosophy, politics and current events. My perspective of Plato was greatly improved. As a connecting point, I also recommend Wittgenstein's Poker.
