https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6522280-the-day-of-the-beast
I had never read a novel by Zane Grey, whom I thought wrote nothing but westerns.
After reading a review of a biography of Grey and finding out that he also wrote this one about WWI, I thought I'd give it a try.
It was fascinating in the sense that it was from the perspective of a young man who had been gassed in the war and had come home to his small midwestern town to die.
What keeps him alive is the desire to end the licentiousness he finds among the youth of the town--underage drinking, petting in automobiles, gambling, and jazz dancing.
Review of "The Day of the Beast" by John LietzkeI rated this book with one star because I do not like reading stories about disabled vets retuning home after a war. Even though I only read three chapters, I determined the story takes place after World War I. I like to read westerns, mysteries and thrillers.
Depression on paperThe worst story of Grey's that I have ever read. If he was alive I would prescribe him prozac. I cannot fathom how bleak his view of society was He had an unrealistic view of women and human nature with a very prudish comprehension of love and relationships do yourself a favor and skip this one.
I'm afraid to say that the impression he gave me was that the teenage girls didn't deserve the right kind of justice because they all knew what they were doing and had it coming to them.Again, a Travis Bickle style vigilante can get away with feeling like that because he never once holds the audience's full sympathy, but it's clear in this story that Lane, though twisted and angry, is in the right.In his defence there are instances where Grey's take on the returning soldier are a little more nuanced than the areas I have picked out, and as previously stated this is a good piece of social criticism for the time, especially for a writer of Westerns frequently criticised for his romanticism.But morally it's a mess.
From a promising beginning - how war-damaged soldiers discover that they were nothing but cannon fod
Great glimpse into changing culture at the end of WWII.
