https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31907.A_Short_History_of_Chinese_Philosophy
Bên cạnh hai dòng tư tưởng chủ đạo này, triết học Phật giáo du nhập từ Ấn Độ vào đời Hán, đem lại cho tư tưởng Trung Quốc khái niệm Phật tính (Tâm vũ trụ); Huyền học (Neo-Taoism) và Đạo học (Neo-Confucianism) là nỗ lực của các nhà triết học đời Tống, Tùy, và Đường trong việc kết hợp những tinh túy của tư tưởng Nho (Khổng Mạnh) và Đạo (Lão Trang); còn Thiền Tông phần nào là kết quả của sự giao thoa giữa Phật và Đạo, nhấn mạnh tầm quan trọng của việc đạt được chân lý bằng đốn ngộ, coi trọng trực giác và xem nhẹ kinh điển, câu chữ giáo lý khô khan.
Fung Yu-Lan gives an essential and satisfying account of the trends in Chinese thought. 400 pages gets it done.
A very good introduction to Chinese philosophy.I’ve read both Chinese and English versions of this book.
Being brought up the occidental way and raised in a rather western-adapted culture, I had a great time reading through the original oriental thought, which is actually the roots of my Asian race.
I myself went through quite a number of philosophy classes but what got retained are the Western philosophies precisely because it is their application in the modern world -- the generation we belong to -- that we breathe in and witness.
But the ancient Chinese philosophies do have a golden chest of ideologies that, given a choice, I would definitely prefer to live by.
N.B. You might want some inspiration from Linda Ellis' Live Your Dash: Make Every Moment Matter.
the book consists of short chapter summaries that describe the outlines of different schools of Chinese thought.
I found a good deal of information I haven't come across before and I especially enjoyed learning about the School of Names and Neo-Confucianism.
The author does a good job showing how the different schools have influenced each other over time and how the mainstream philosophy of each age changes depending on social circumstances (confucian, legalist, Mohists, taoists, pure conversation, etc.).
At times it feels like the classical schools of thought had some solid ideas and the rest of chinese philosophy just runs in circles around those ideas.
The book is a systematic account of Chinese philosophy history. To my view, Feng Youlan's A Short History of Chinese Philosophy is only matched by Russell's A History of Western Philosophy. If there is anything other than philosophy that I learn from the book, it is that The Needham Puzzle ("Why the Industrial Revolution Did Not Originate in China") is more philosophical than economical.
Với người mới tiếp xúc với Triết học Trung Hoa, mình thấy các tư tưởng của từng thời được viết theo trình tự thời gian giúp người đọc dễ nắm bắt.Thêm nữa, nhờ quyển này mà mình được biết đến khái niệm "Người Trung Dung", và hình tượng nhân văn này theo mình rất đáng học hỏi thêm.
Còn một tư tưởng khác bao trùm, mà cái này có lẽ mình cũng hơi bias là dân tộc phương Đông CỰC KÌ coi trọng quan hệ gia đình và tính trực giác cao, ngược lại so với những gì mình hay đọc từ triết học phương Tây: tính cá nhân, nghi ngờ, và logic luôn hiện lên rõ nét.
Studying became only a tool to get a job in government since Han Dynasty.
The book did a great job explaning different schools of those times.
But frankly, After Han, things were so boring.
Western philosophy would have been as boring if there hadn't been stimulus from science, liberalism and even religion.
Ming and Song Dynasties, we were still repeating Confucius - think of if Spinoza was still repeating Plato...But when we get to the last two chapters, I found the book greatly insteresting again.
Because it touches on the author's own times and visions, authenticity and earnest shines through these chapters.
This was a superb book about Chinese philosophy. It was very readable and intriguing, not difficult to read but covering many different topics in detail. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in philosophy!
A fun read for serious students of Classical Chinese philosophy.
"One must speak very much before one keeps silent."
This book made me freeze in writing reviews that I neglected them for a year.Right off the bat I must confess I rank this as one of the most treasured reads I have encountered, and Feng Youlan is there among the likes of Hume, Kant, Nietzsche.And I do make a claim here to have been as objective and bias-free as possible in my reading.Of course, one may argue that Feng never formulated his own theories, own School of Thought; but his broad understanding of Western AND Eastern Philosophies is incredible.For someone who thinks he understands the basics of Mohism and Confucianism, this book was both humbling and enlightening to me.
Not the easiest read for a beginner in Chinese philosophy. I read this in Chinese and a lot of the quotes were in ancient style prose that's hard for the younger generations to understand. however, the contents of this book is beyond amazing. It gives a very comprehensive understanding of the history of Chinese philosophy and why it's focus were different from that of the western philosophy. Throughout the reading, I've found some interesting topics that I want to read more about. Overall, a must read book if you want to start on Chinese philosophy.
I got this book to learn more about the philosophy of Mo Tzu. I love his arguments, his strong reaction to the hierarchal system of Confucius. Mo Tzu justifies his most important concept, universal love, by bringing up the destructive nature of partiality. His utilitarianism is in stark contrast to his concept of universal love, as it is coldly logical (Mo Tzu finds emotions useless and destructive). Regardless, this is a good book for learning more about Chinese philosophy ...
Read in Chinese version.The book is really good and Feng is just like a Feynman in Chinese Phylosophy field.I think China also has a Middle Age, after Qin Dynasty. The best part of Chinese Phylosophy is before Qin. From then on, most are just like religion. Maybe it's just the rule of all human beings' evolution.We can never escape the turn to be silly. Only after we are silly, can we have the chance to be more wise,
To have a systematic and concise summary of Chinese philosophy from a traditional Chinese scholar, this is THE book to read. If you read Chinese, then suggest you go for it: 中国哲学简史. It is generally agree that this is much better than even his own two thicker volumes of 中国哲学史. Suitable for both scholar and the lay, a good scrutiny of this book will certainly build a good foundation for anyone interested in Chinese philosophy and Sinology.
It is a short history about Chinese Philosophy, but it is the most thorough one I've never read. What a pity it is not the official text book for Chinese students, it is more important than reading Lu Xun, since Lu Xun's arguments are all based on these philosophical ideas. If students do not have a fundamental understanding of Chinese philosophy, it is useless to read LuXun.
A comprehensive book that serves for introducing both the history of Chinese philosophy and the philosophy itself. Nevertheless, there might still be a need for you to read the original copies of ancient Chinese philosophers if you want to know exactly what they a thinking about.
The most comprehensive history of Chinese philosophy for readers from different cultural backgrounds. The genial presentation of numerous schools of philosophy from the Warring States period to the 20th century help us to understand the moving forces in the history of China. A must read.
A little hard to read, very dry, but worth it. It gives a brief overview of how Chinese Philosophy evolved into what it was at the time of the writing (1940's). Aside from the dryness easy to understand without having taken other courses in Chinese history or philosophy.
Wow, top notch. I feel like I learned a LOT. The only complaint I could possibly have is that it was written so long ago. It couldn't exactly talk about the last 60 years of developments in Chinese philosophy. Not all that much about Communist thought.
A fantastic primer to confucian, taoist and buddhist thought in China. Needs to be read several times because of the density and richness of material.
Chinese Philosophy has a lot more in common with Western values than I thought, or maybe it was just being sold that way by the author.
Excellent book for gaining basic knowledge about chinese philosophy. Leaves place for further explorations of the topic, but can be enough for those who want only to cover basic issues of the theme.
Very interesting perspective into the mindset of the Chinese and how their philosophy contrasts against western philosophy. It functioned as a great companion for my examination.
Not an easy read, I had to put it down many times to think of what was written. Still I feel a bit more clear about the different schools in Chinese philosophy.
