https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40605251-the-mists-of-avalon
And for everyone writing "GET OVER YOURSELF" in the comments, as a response to my using my own little corner of the internet to tell a story about how my life as a writer and a Catholic and a woman was shaped by this book, there were a dozen other women responding "OH MY GOD, ARE YOU ME?" I love that.
Hmmm, I would like to see the mini series to this book. I felt it was a good book although it did get boring at times or maybe it was just me! I loved reading about the history. The most I have ever known about Arthur and the gang was through my show, Merlin. The ending was really sad to me 😕 But it was excellent as well, if that makes any sense. Happy Reading! Mel ❤️
Good lord, I haven't ever hated a book as much as this one.I picked up The Mists of Avalon because I really love Nordic myths, and usually any stories about King Arthur.
No. She's a whiney pushover who convinces herself she's in love with a man her husband hates because she hears a prophecy that she's supposed to bear that man's child (if I heard a prophecy like that, I'd run away).
But she wasn't anything I really cared about.There also seemed to be a whole lot of describing boring day-to-day activities that, just like all the Christian hate, did nothing to advance the plot.
But, with a week to go in 2017 and about 300 or so pages left, I buckled down and finished it at around 8:15 on December 31st!You might think that my opinion of this book will not be stellar considering it was slow going.
About a week ago when I committed to finishing it before the end of the year that was where I thought it would end up, too.
It is indeed a large book and quite a commitment, but if you love fantasy and Arthurian legend, it is worth checking out.In some of my discussions with my book friends we were trying to figure out what Bradley was going for with this book.
Marion Zimmer Bradley succeeded in breathing new life into the Arthurian saga, and at the same time, she didn't step too far away from the spirit of it.
With her obssessive views about religion, her lack of education, she is so irritating...And of course, her actions are far away from what she names as ''Christian love'', and we all know that she is a hypocrite.The male characters are the ''heroes'' we have come to know from the Arthurian myths.
Evil sorceress Morgan Le Fay is transfered into multi-faceted Morgaine, a woman deeply committed to her family, especially her aunt, Viviane, half-brother, Arthur, and cousin, Lancelet.
Gwenhyfar, the simpering Christian princess, was my least favorite, but even she had some complexity, an unhappy childhood, inferiority complex made worse by her bareness, (and obvious jealousy-issues with Morgaine concerning the womens' relationships with Arthur and Lancelet.) Perhaps the most dour of Morgaine's familial ties is that with her son, Mordred, the illigitimate heir of her brother, whom she foolishly put up with her aunt Morgause, easily the most shallow and greedy woman in the entire book.Religion-wise, I found it impossible not to root for Morgaine's Avalon, not only because I knew it was destined to recede into the mists, but because it was matriarchal, and so much more comforting to me than the expansionalist, narrow-minded and mysoginistic version of Christianity prevalent during those times.
And rather than break out of this mold with strong female characters, Bradley talks a lot about spinning, weaving, and having babies.
The pagan-Christian thing is overwrought and shrill, devolving mostly into interminable theological debates between characters that cover the same ground over and over and over again.A lot of things irritated me about this book, but nothing more than the simple lack of a compelling narrative construction.
For more of a historical view, Bernard Cornwell's The Last Kingdom is a much more fun and interesting look at the clash of Christian and pagan civilizations, and even has characters that you don't hate.
My favorite fantasy novel written by a serial rapist and child-abuser. Now that I think about it, I'm interested to remember that the person who recommended it to me was also a big fan of Nietzsche.
This is one of the few books that I hate. I'm a feminist and I love King Arthur stories and The Mists of Avalon makes me vaguely nauseous. I read the whole thing hoping it would get better, and it didn't, though there are a few good bits. Overall I found it offensive to the Arthurian legends, to history, and to women, and being a 15-year-old girl who liked fantasy novels did nothing to change this opinion.
Truth has many faces and the truth is like to the old road to Avalon; it depends on your own will, and your own thoughts, whither the road will take you."Again, I feel the need to put my thoughts down about some of the books that changed my life and made me into the guy I am.Those who know me just one tiny bit also know that The Lord of the Rings is my favourite book ever.
in reality I have a holy trinity of fantasy books from my childhood.
Well, there I go again - sniffling and crying through the last 10 pages over a bunch of fictional characters that I feel I know better then some real people. If ever there was a book to make me believe in the power of magic, then Bradley cast her spell over me when she penned this book.What a sap I am, and what a sap I'll be again the next time I read this...:D
So, when I say that women seem more than men to be capable of breaking the Tolkien Curse laid so thickly upon Modern Fantasy (barely proper), it is with trepidation.Flatly blaming rude and wretched socialization always seems easier; despite our inability to understand any First Cause.
It seems that, in the spirit of contrariness, when women find themselves thrust by love of horses or exceedingly lax tonsorial concerns into the same arena, that they fight a different fight.Perhaps they approach the incline from a different vantage; arriving not by way of a)Tolkien to b)Conan to c)some unspeakable modern half-wit, but by Malory, McKinley, and Spenser.
An excellent Arthurian saga.Written from the point of view of Morgaine, Arthur's half-sister and the villian of traditional Arthur tales.Unique in perspective with strong female characters. It is a story of love; and quite different from any Arthur novel you'll ever read.Marion Zimmer Bradley's best work. She paints a vivid picture, rich with depth of characters and relationships. One of my favorites, I can read this over and over again.
She tells in narration.What keeps the book moving is Bradley's writing style, both formal enough to suit an Arthurian epic, but readable and engaging enough to pull the reader through endless paragraphs of court politics.
Most disturbing, the one unequivocally negative portrayal of a sexual conquest (view spoiler)[– the rape of Gwenwhyfar – (hide spoiler)] smacks more than a little of "she had it coming." At times, Bradley questions patriarchal notions of sexuality, pointing out (again, telling multiple times, rather than showing) that women who take younger men as partners are vilified as sluts while men who take younger women are glorified for their conquests.
Curious, I clicked the links to work out why.
Here is one which I feel is most impactful: http://deirdre.net/marion-zimmer-brad...To summarise though, this author supports her husband who was a known pedophile.
The above link shows her daughter saying the author herself molested her (the daughter).
So, to all my friends who want to read this or any of the author's other books, I would strongly suggest not to support a monster.
I am just absolutely horrified by what I have read and felt I should share.
I couldn't express a more striking and effective metaphor of woman condition and on how religion has repressed and effected our society better than what MZB has done.If you're a fervent religious person, you'll probably hate it.The Mist Of Avalon is the retelling of King Arthur's story but from a very different point of view.
So i would have loved to understand those characters better to have a 360° vision of the story but well, i can't say that the message wasn't clear and that it didn't hit me like a train.
I read this book when I was in my mid-teens, and in the midst of an Arthurian obsession phase.
These are mythical characters that have been written on so many times and by legendary figures who are almost myths themselves.
It's a really hard subject to tackle without derision.
I do think she filled a niche in what could otherwise be a very chauvinistic, idealized genre.
It teaches something about never taking a story for granted, and the fact that there's a side even to the purportedly evil people that can be more sympathetic than we realize.
It's like "Wicked" in that way, only less cliched.
This is kind of a feminist version of the Arthurian legend (I say "kind of" for a reason; Nenia's review offers several reasons why it's arguably quasi-feminism at best). It's well-written but I got bored, and it was long-winded, and I simply didn't care about any of the characters. I didn't find any of them particularly likeable or sympathetic. I skimmed most of the second half.
Have you ever found yourself reading a book, knowing you're reading crap, but the writing style and the occasional promising plot twist kept you going?Maybe I was fooled by Hallmark's production, Merlin, and I expected Morgaine to have a backbone to call her own.
Sure, it was nice to read about the very early days of post-Roman england, but for god's sake; I could have picked up a history book and not this waste of time, energy and paper.
When I was about a fourth of the way through The Mists of Avalon, I glanced at some reviews on GoodReads and was disheartened to see that the consensus of many reviews was that the book ended on a FEMINISMRULESMENDROOLSCHRISTIANITYSUX message.
The Mists of Avalon, for those who are not familiar, is a retelling of the Arthurian saga from the women’s point of view.
Although the book is largely concerned with matters of religion, it is also a saga of family and love and is filled with fascinating characters.
https://cronicasdemagrat.com/2016/07/...Me ha gustado muchísimo y ya nunca veré a personajes como Morgana, Ginebra o Lancelot con los mismos ojos...Me ha fascinado especialmente toda la parte pagana y mágica, tan bien hilada y el ambiente melancólico (incluso a veces deprimente). Es impresionante la manera en la que la autora nos muestra la transformación de la Inglaterra romana/pagana hacia la medieval/cristiana...#Fan
I saw a few one-star reviews (from dudes AND ladies) of this saying that the women were boring or slutty or whatever coded misogyny nonsense, but let me get something off my chest: do not confuse "having strong female characters" with "female badass fetishization" because this book absolutely has the former.
The women were strong and they were complex and each one of them had this beautifully woven narrative.
Hallowed moments of tender mercies and divine revelations finally knit back together and shaped this incredible feminist narrative of women and God. Here's a backstory: I have a "Valar Morghulis" tattoo.
Igraine, Viviane, Morgaine, Gwenhwyfar, Morgause, all these women claw their way from the footnotes of the myth and become three dimensional people—not just characters, but people—with worries and joys of their own.
It’s why I love the legend as I do all things heart-rending.However, as wonderfully flawed all these people were with their virtues and their unbridled ambitions, none of them really had a choice in the matter.
Telling a story from the female perspective doesn’t make it feminist; writing capable women doing things, being active, and making choices does.
I really enjoyed the author's very original take on this famous legend.
Having Morgaine as a sympathetic character instead of the usual villain of the piece I thought worked very well.
Only four stars from me though because I felt the story faltered many times especially with the constant repetitive bickering between characters about Christianity versus paganism.
I have never had much sympathy for her when the story is told more traditionally but in this I just wanted to smack her!
So overall an enjoyable version of the legend, well told with some great highlights but a little repetitive and consequently too long.
I don't know why I put this off for so long - it sat on my shelf gathering dust for far too long.
I know, it's 876 pages long, but it's worth tackling.
I've never seen an Arthurian retelling quite like this one - I particularly enjoyed how The Merlin and The Lady of the Lake are the titles of an office with multiple people fulfilling those roles.
Otherwise, it's fascinating to see what Bradley makes of this legendary cast of characters.
If only it were easier to keep track of the multitudes of characters, though, since several of them have quite similar names.
This book has been important to me for a long time.
It’s billed as a feminist retelling of the King Arthur tale.
It’s a sweeping story of characters who are mostly trying to do right (although you need some villains, obviously, both male and female).
It’s also a fictionalized account of how Christianity took over the Pagan religions.
Pagans essentially worship Mother Earth and nature.
It’s many hours long, but the narrator’s soothing voice is a lovely way to fall asleep.
Thanks to audiobooks, you no longer need to be a little kid to be read a bedtime story!
Not only did Patrick never become a bishop in Britain (or hold any real post there whatsoever), but Bradley again overlooks the fact that while in Ireland on his mission of conversion, Patrick actually allowed for female bishops and priests and created perhaps one of the most egalitarian versions of the Catholic Church.These points aisde, what about her actual portrayal of the Arthurian legends?
As mentioned, she seems a lot more interested in making her socio-philosophical point than in telling a real story.
Read this book if, like me, you are very interested in the Arthurian cycles and their re-interpretations throughout history.
611)This is a story of how the old pagan ways of Avalon are engulfed by the rise of Christianity after the fall of Rome.
This is a masterful interpretation, giving new life to all the old characters: Gwenhwyfar, the pious, Christian Queen to Authur; The handsome Lancelet, most honorable knight and Queen’s Champion; Taliesin, the Great Merlin of Britian, Morgause, Morgaine’s Aunt and foster-mother to Galahad…truly, an engrossing and engaging tale of epic proportions; I cannot find words to praise it enough.
Did you know the author tortured & sexually assaulted her own children, helped & encouraged her pedophile (ex)husband, and advocated for adult/child sexual relationships...because both she and her hubby participated in them?Here's a good jumping-in point: Her Daughter: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...Her Son: http://starfire-studio.com/markgreyla...I didn't like this novel before -- too much misandry, revisionism, contempt for the Arthurian mythos, creepy sexual content, etc. etc. But knowing such information about the author -- who she REALLY was and what she did and what she thought -- explains a lot about certain themes, scenes, etc. in this book that always put me off.
This book is one of those that I would consider required reading.
Marion Zimmer Bradley's telling of the Arthurian legend from the point of view of Morgaine is so captivating that even twenty years later, I come back to it.It's the story of Britain after Rome has faded but the influence of Rome, particularly through spreading Christianity hasn't.
Britain is on the cusp where the spread of Christianity is eclipsing the native, ancient religion.
If you haven't read it, you should remedy that!
