https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5254.A_Son_at_the_Front
Edith Wharton lived in Paris during World War I, and with her incredible talent she paints a picture of the city and the people, and how they adapted to the the changes the war imposed on everyone and everything.
One young man goes off to war and his parents pride for his bravery and horrible fear that he may not return is a scene played out countless times with families everywhere.
Wharton was a correspondent and a homefront volunteer and her insights and descriptions give the reader a feel for the emotions of the time and the people who lived through it.
The set up for this novel hooked me before I even read it: In the summer of 1914, a divorced expatriate father living in Paris is anticipating a month’s travel with his son, George.
After all, he wants George to be “independent” and not have to work in some soul-destroying business such as the son's stepfather owns — such a nice touch to combine class snobbery and whiff-of-Bohemian artistic snobbery!
Anyway, war breaks out and prevents the father/son vacation, but the big crisis is that George can be drafted into the French army because he was born while his parents were visiting France.
[image error](Courtesy: Yale Collection of American Literature, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library)Way back in forgotten times, when the world was still all black and white, Edith Wharton lived in Paris.
She was in Paris during World War I and through some connections was actually one of the few foreigners to be able to be on the front lines for her work as a war correspondent for Scribner's Magazine.
♥A Son at the Front is one of the rare books by Wharton that deals specifically with the war.
***.This was Wharton’s effort at writing a war novel, though it came out after the war was over.
The situation was that the son, named George Campton, was visiting his divorced parents in Paris.
George was, then, a French citizen, subject to the French recruitment when he visited them in late July of 1914.
Much of the book is spent on the efforts taken by his rich step-father and his artist biological father took to try and keep him safe and away from the fighting.
I didn’t think that this represented one of Wharton’s better efforts.
the first Edith Wharton novel with a character that I disliked so much it colored my judgement of the entire novel, John Campton, in my opinion, is a self-centered and disagreeable character. If Wharton intended this kind of reaction, I would consider the novel a success .. If not, I will just retreat to 'Ethan Frome'...and delight in the obvious.
Not my favorite Wharton; nonetheless powerful.
My rating: 3.5A compelling story about the effects of war on those who are left behind. This is Wharton's anti-war statement, but she does it in the guise of a novel which raises questions/issues to ponder. Not well received at the time of its publication, it certainly does provide a thought provoking look back in time.
Wharton writes about the part of World War I she knew the best, the life at the rear of the conflict, in Paris, including the charity work, the many, many people who continually receive news that their sons have died in the conflict, and artistic and social life.
But I also think she misreads the text by using as her main example the "Friends of French Art" charity as depicted in the book.
The artists and intellectuals surrounding the protagonist Campton, she makes clear, are more interested in following fads and fashions than in actually doing war work (and this includes the protagonist, who is not shown wholly in a positive light).
Very rarely do I come along such a beautiful novel. I loved the author's style. She was very clear and it flowed well. This novel is about a father's priorities for his son, but once he enters WW11, those priorities explode and the father is devastated. The father is very pessimistic and anti-war and his attitude reminds me of the current feelings concern the Iraqi war.I am in love with this one :)
This did not quite have the punch that I was hoping for. Fully cognizant that almost every man in France between the ages of 18 and 40 died in World War I, I was prepared for a sad outcome. While well written, it seemed like the characters were kept at a distance. You never really get to know them or care about them. It did not even provoke a tear at the end, a requisite for me to give four or five stars.
I love Edith Wharton. There are not enough stars to reflect what a beautiful book this is. I wish I could have experienced the gift of being in a conversation with Edith Wharton. She is, in my view, right there with Dickens, Garcia Marquez, and, yes, Steinbeck. I love them all, and am so grateful they took the time to write. The world, certainly my life, is better place for their work.
It takes a while to get into the story since the writing style is very different than that of modern writers. But I am a fan of Edith Wharton and she does a good job of depicting Europe, World War I and the friends and family on the home front.
I liked her characters (for the most part) and her plot, but something about her writing just does not grip me. I've been coming back to this book off and on for over a year, and I've finally managed to plow through it.Still, I'd take this over "House of Mirth" ANY DAY.
Heartbreaking and RealI last read Wharton in college. Found this novel by chance and remembered how I loved Ethan Frome. A perfect picture of a father's love and struggle with the man his son becomes. Too many memorable lines to cite just one. Much of a time, but not dated.
Review forthcoming.
I think what pissed me off most about this book is Campton randomly taking up an interest in clay at the very end, but trying to act as if he's liked it this whole time.
Very dry read, but overall an okay read.

I had a hard time with this read - Campton Sr was so self-absorbed, oblivious to his own hypocrisy in his jealousy and bitterness toward Brant, and for the vast majority of the book was borderline (or not so borderline) repellant. A few moments of decency, but most of them were still clouded by his pettiness toward Mr. Brant. In the end, I just wanted it to be over. I wouldn't rate this as a "masterpiece" for Wharton, frankly.
WWI story of father and sonI had to search for this book, hearing about it first in a course I took on WWI. Instead of being a story of a soldier son at the front, it tells the story of his family in Paris. Wharton brings together the struggle of divorced parents, the impact of the war on daily life, and in the forefront a father coming to terms with his son's decisions and his own art. I recommend it to anyone who reads Wharton these days or is a student of WWI?
A different perspective of the great war.I've never read a book about a divorced couples son going to war. What seemed almost a contest in concern. It also portrayed a mindset about war that was so different from now but she gave an insight into another time. How in the world could you get people into those trenches? I am now going to re-read Helprin's "A Soldier Of The Great War".
It has been a very long time since I read anything by Edith Wharton.
The father, along with some of the other main characters, undergoes a transformation in his thinking about the war as the book progresses.
The writing was so evocative, the characters so nuanced, the descriptions of the war so vivid!
Reading about the book after I finished it, I discovered that Wharton had lived in France before the war, and returned there shortly after France entered the war.
