https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30245.Cerulean_Sins
I loved the first 10 books in the Anita Blake series.
I am going to walk away from Anita Blake because Cerulean Sins is a disappointing read.
I know what readers of this series are thinking – didn’t a super strong vamp with amazing abilities from another territory visit in an earlier book (or wait, was it books?)?
Because of the ardeur, Anita needs to constantly have sex and sexual contact and then feed off her sexual partners’ desire.
All the men in her life talk about Anita needing to feed the ardeur.
I'm betting this one was the proverbial straw.On the positive side, it kept me awake, partly because I was curious if the story started in the first four pages--a hit man looking to raise a zombie--would ever be completed, and partly because trying to figure out if I was remembering this plot or the plot of another one in the series was like a mental itch I couldn't scratch.Speaking of itching, Laurell Hamilton is a tease, and I don't mean that as a compliment.
Anita Blake's ability to raise zombies and her dominating personality made her an interesting character, one of the first female leads of the UF genre.
Read if you feel in the mood for some supernatural erotica, but don't expect any actual investigation or character development beyond sexuality.
I suppose it could have been the fact that a once kick ass heroine is now a sex fiend.
Why, for instance, can't Anita control her desires when Jean-Claude can?
I might not have liked the book because all the sex sounds the same.
The only difference in the way the men have sex with Anita is the size of their equipment.
How does Jean-Claude rule as a master vampire when he is wimp?
The fact that the characters have been so warped might be another reason why I did not like the book.
In this book we get another sadistic insane vampire coming into town to rape, pillage, and torture, and Jean Claude gets to host her.
Anita knows that their pleasant "visit" will turn into a blood bath, but she is trapped by all of the rules of vampire society.
If Jean Claude would just let me shoot everyone in Musette's party tonight, it would save a lot of trouble, I just knew it would.
I know I'm alone on this, but I like Asher.
I also think Anita is a ridiculous hypocrite for not allowing Jean Claude to have a side relationship with him.
I couldn't remember how to answer her.""It was hard to swallow past my pulse." "...I felt like the only thing keeping my pulse in my mouth was the tight line of my lips."I think I stopped breathing.""I kept my mouth closed; I was afraid of what would fall out if I opened it."Or then, Anita thinks she is oh, so clever and goes off on random rants that have absolutely nothing to do with the plot or what is happening at the moment:"I think that's why dogs are so damned popular.
As much as I love the Anita Blake series, this is another book that I really don’t get too excited over.
go figure!Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator.
If any of you have read the series up until now, you’ll think this is HILARIOUS!I opened my mouth to call her a heartless bitch, but it wasn’t what came out.
(By me, not in the book heh)Bottom line, not her best work, but brilliant nonetheless.I recommend this book to anyone reading this series, ADULTS ONLY.
Strong sexual content and descriptive violence.Happy reading and now I’m on to Incubus Dreams!
Hamilton, cause ooo, were your fans mad at you after that book (see reader reviews at Amazon.com).
And you Dolph fans, too.
And I totally agree with those of you that think this whole ardeur (fancy term for her new succubus status) business is just an excuse for Anita to have sex with all the male characters.
Now I see where the book cover designs come in.About two books ago, someone picked up my current AB installment and asked "what are you reading?" And I laughed and said "no, no, it's not as bad as it looks.
the romance is all secondary; I don't know why they try to make it look all sexy." Yeah, well, now I do.
It was a love made up of a thousand touches, a million conversations, a trillion shared looks.
I loved Jean-Claude, all of him, because if I took away the Machiavellian plottings, the labyrinth of his mind, it would lessen him, make him someone else.I sat on the edge of the tub with my jeans and jogging shoes soaking in the water, looking at him laugh, watching his eyes bleed back to human, and I wanted him, not for sex, though that was in there, but for everything.-Cerulean Sins, page 143-
But if Anita brings Musette down, the repercussions could cost her everything she holds dear.” Once a sworn enemy of all monsters, Anita is now the human consort of both Master Vampire Jean Claude and leopard shapeshifter Micah.
There are only so many times one can read about Jean-Claude’s deep blue eyes before you feel like clawing them out just so that it will be mentioned no more.
There’s also the repeated descriptions of just about everything, from Asher’s scars, to Dolph‘s appearance, to Asher’s HAIR and Jean-Claude’s deep blue EYES, to Nathaniel freaking lilac EYES, to Micha’s bright green cat EYES, to…dear God, I can’t take anymore eye descriptions.
There’s only Asher’s golden hair, Jean-Claude’s dark curls and Nathaniels long auburn braid.
I’m not sure how long I can keep this up for…maybe I can make you a deal Anita.
I think I need to take a break from these books for awhile. I'm getting way too caught up in the lives of the characters. I really wanted someone to rip out Richard Zeeman's throat. He is far too whiny for an Alpha Werewolf. Oh well, that is what makes these books such fun. They are books about people who just happen to be werewolves, vampires, regular humans, etc. The emotional drama is the same no matter what type of non human is involved. On to the next one!
(view spoiler)[It is explainable within the story as we find out that Dolph's son is going to be transformed into a vampire by his vampire lover and he is grieving for him (hide spoiler)] but I feel like he turns on Anita very easily considering their history and how much of a help she has been to him in the past.- I always dislike Richard whenever he appears in the series, and here is no exception.
This book also see the development of the mica and asher characters which is interesting in itself.What was also unique is in this book we get to see a little more of jean claude - her vampire lover- and how he was made, and how he became as powerful, and as sexy, as he is currently.We for the first time are allowed to feel sympathy as some of the past experiance he had at 'court' come to light.One of the reasons i loved this book is because at the end there were just as many questions as answers.It has to be said out of all of this 'vampire hunter series' the ending of this book was perhaps the most open ended, I cant have been the only one who expected a few more questions answered but then again that is what makes this as a series so compelling.I really cant wait for the next book to see how anita's relationships turn out.
The ardeur is the most irritating plot device I have ever encountered.
I agree with those who say that this book degenerates the characters to crappy soft core porn, and I'm not even half way through yet.Give me vampire politics, assassins, zombies, and hey, even pack rituals.
This poor excuse to fill every ten pages with porn is exasperating.Perhaps if Anita just went with it, I'd be more forgiving.
But this book turns her into a selfish, sanctimonious, irritating biznich.I was almost thrilled when Dolph shook her around some.
It's hard to believe, but when Anita stopped being celibate in The Killing Dance my reaction was "finally." I thought Hamilton had overdone the sexual tension leading up to that book.
I knew it was a bad, bad thing when the ardeur rose up its ugly head in the previous book.
But after Narcissus in Chains the only thing important to Anita is who she's boinking at any particular moment--but that's OK.
I had a friend who actually loved the post-Narcissus in Chains arc.
She thought it was all about Anita learning to love.
And having sex with all comers does not a relationship make.
She can’t get involved though, because Lieutanent Dolph doesn’t like the fact that she’s sleeping with the monsters, and their relationship has all but fallen apart.The ardeur, a device introduced in the last book, forces Anita to crave sex every 12 hours, conveniently removing the need for Hamilton to have a reason for Anita to have sex.Gone is the Anita from the first books, the complex character who was a vampire executioner but who fell in love with a vampire, a Christian whose natural ability was very unChristain, a strong woman who took a no-bullshit attitude to equally strong men.Now, she pretty much just hops from bed to bed, and worries more about the implications of dating someone than killing someone.Having read up to this one in quick succession (I had hoped to be up-to-date by the time book 20 was released in June), the repetition of certain phrases is very noticeable, as it is in her other paranormal series, Merry Gentry.
Learn what they are so that you can avoid doing them.7) If you wanted to write smut, you should have done so from the beginning of the series in order to attract the right fan base.
But if there isn't even a ghost of a plot brought back soon, I'll drop this series faster than Anita Blake drops her knickers at the sight of anything with a penis and chalk it up to a waste of time for having ever read it.That said, the first several books WERE enjoyable.
But I still love almost all of the surrounding characters and that keeps this series in my top.In the 11th installment, Anita finds herself meeting the in-laws, so to speak.
Jean-Claude's maker, Belle Morte, has caught wind of Anita and has decided that she wants to know more, thereby sending a surrogate vampire to scope the scene.
I loved getting to know more about Jean-Claude and Asher's beginnings.
Another reason I loved this is because of Jason (my absolute favorite character in case you didn't know).
Grow up and get over yourself Anita.Still love it though.
I just don't like the direction this series is going.
It is all about the one thing and I feel like the author forces more of "that" in every chance she gets.
I also liked the world the author painted.
I think if the narrator for this one had been the original one (Kimberly Alexis) I would have stayed with this book...but the new one (name withheld) was butchering any and all male voices if you could even tell them apart from one another.
If you've read this series, tell me please:Does it get better with a real plot?and Did they get the old narrator back?
I mean that's a great degrade to the previous books that the series had.
The sense in the plot seems to go nowhere, the characters just gets bad every time, the ending are flat.I can still recommend this novel to people who love the supernatural but with caution.
Would still be reading until the end of the series due to curiosity of how the story will progress and what the characters would be like but not as in love with the series like before.I do hope Hamilton turns the series around.
Such a great series to go to waste.
I caved...
(hide spoiler)] The other, unconnected, is about Musette, Belle Morte's representative, and the vampires she brought with her to visit Jean-Claude, et.al.This is the first book in which Anita is a Federal Marshal.
If you ignore the Thanksgiving reference, this quote puts the time of events back in "early September." In the final chapter, Chapter 62, the time is again confirmed as September: Page 529, "Summer is over and gone, but autumn is here, and next month is October with the bluest skies of the year."I don't understand how LKH could confuse her timeline like this, but I blame the editor for not catching this continuity issue and fixing it before it made it into print.Another continuity issue was that Jamil is now Hati.
Jean-Claude becomes sourdre de sang of his own line.Chapter 49: Belle Morte can save Asher.
I was honestly so utterly bored while reading this. I'm so sad at how this series has become, I used to love it so much.What baffled me the most was how such a long book has barely anything going on in it.The only redeeming quality was Jason, I love him so much, I felt like he was voicing my every thought LOL
Recently I thought maybe I had been right in thinking the beginning books were good....surely I couldn't have been completely wrong?
I have read many, many books between then and now so I needed to know if my memory of the beginning of the series was correct.
I'm sure I can't be the only person who feels like they know way too much about LKH.....insecure, lonely, poor fashion sense, sexually repressed and because it's so obvious I need to say it again, insecure.
It's goddamn creepy to be reading someone else's fantasy.....that needs to stay in your head LKH.
Cerulean Sins is the eleventh book in the Anita Blake Vampire Hunter Series.
Ms. Hamilton’s writing is quite good and I believe she could have produced an excellent book with the serial killer plot, if she would have gotten down to business and developed the plot, instead of turning out page after dreary page of vampire sex.
Further, I was really disappointed that in something called a “vampire hunter series” the hunter didn’t “hunt” any vampires; instead, she had group sex with them.
I am sorry to say that it will likely be a very long time before I read another Laurell Hamilton book.
I wanted to wait to finish other books before I started this one - but of course I have no will power, and I read it immediately.
Aside from the drastic morality shift, the only two annoyances to the plot are the main character's continuing badly timed guilt, and the increasing predictability of the crimes she investigates.
Here's the basic equation:Step One: Bad guys arrive in town and challenge one or all of the triumvirate (Richard/Jean-Claude/Anita).
The character, Anita Blake, seems to have only one weakness now - her own battle with her morality - which seems to get a bit more trite in every succeeding book.
Reading the series nonstop has been both a blessing and a curse.I loved Anita from the start for her stubborn, bitchy attitude that never ceases to amaze me.The plot is well written, the series constant and the consequences of each of the character's actions and decisions rational and complicates the story.And the men, :)Oh, Laurell, the men.
I can't even imagine how different Nathaniel's position in Anita's life is compared to the other contenders.
And I can't wait for what will Anita do next.
I'm calling it.
This series is officially dead to me.
Hamilton isn't even pretending there's a plot anymore.
I stopped reading 45% through and I think there were 2 or 3 chapters that didn't have any sex, sex talk, or general relationship talk in it.
Anita has been reduced from a kick as heroine to a whiny inflatable sex doll.
Insert penis here.
We don't even need a relationship build up cuz it can all be explained by the ardeur.
I love a good adult book but I want to read actual characters.
This was worse than a cinemax porn plot.
Instead of Hamilton treating this as another opportunity for Anita to be practical and say, "Hey, it is what it is.
Fuck off."Such a lost opportunity.UPDATED 03/04/2015 for the audio book:Read by Cynthia Holloway.
I feel like it's that Cool Whip commercial with Stewie and Brian." "Were" is pronounced like "where" - not "we're" (or "weir")!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ZmqJ...Every time I re-read (or, in this case listen) to this book, I am reminded of the greatness that once was, and am deeply sorrowed by the deterioration of it.But I'll keep holding on.
Richard hates himself, that's why he is cantankerous to Anita. He can't stand his non-human side and she seems to accept herself and all the supes around her. She even seems to revel in her new abilities, but she doesn't join him in his disdain and that's really what upsets Richard.This was two storylines, both dealing with killers. This new narrator, Cynthia took me time to get use to because she doesn't pronounce Nimirah and other words the same way the prior narrator did. It was okay though.
