https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47180.Kaddish_and_Other_Poems
You should read it because the personal kaddish (a traditional Jewish prayer of mourning) which Ginsberg offers for his mother Naomi is the most frankly biographical, most moving and greatest poem Ginsberg ever wrote, and because the book’s themes—the power of The Mother over creation and destruction, her gifts of both ecstatic poetry and madness to her blessed and cursed devotees—completes the persona of the mythic Allen Ginsberg: poet-seer of the Beats, the Orpheus of a new age.Naomi Ginsberg was a mother to reckoned with.
Thus it was that, three years later, while listening to a record of Ray Charles playing the blues, Allen Ginsberg began to compose his kaddish for Naomi.The poem itself is unique.
i make my kids listen to the cd. they're going to be brilliant or crazy.
downtown Manhattan, clear winter noon, and I’ve been up all night, talking, talking, reading the Kaddish aloud, listening to Ray Charles blues shout blind on the phonograph the rhythm the rhythm—and your memory in my head three years after—And read Adonais’ last triumphant stanzas aloud—wept, realizing how we suffer— And how Death is that remedy all singers dream of, sing, remember, prophesy as in the Hebrew Anthem, or the Buddhist Book of Answers—and my own imagination of a withered leaf—at dawn— Dreaming back thru life, Your time—and mine accelerating toward Apocalypse, the final moment—the flower burning in the Day—and what comes after, looking back on the mind itself that saw an American city a flash away, and the great dream of Me or China, or you and a phantom Russia, or a crumpled bed that never existed— like a poem in the dark—escaped back to Oblivion— No more to say, and nothing to weep for but the Beings in the Dream, trapped in its disappearance, sighing, screaming with it, buying and selling pieces of phantom, worshipping each other, worshipping the God included in it all—longing or inevitability?—while it lasts, a Vision—anything more?
از برخی جهات برای من یادآور « مرگ آرام » سیمون دو بووار بود.
در اثر دو بووار با مادری معمولی روبروئیم، مادری مثل همه ی مادرها.
اما در اثر گینزبرگ با مادری روبروئیم گرفتار جنون.
اثر را که شروع کردم ساختارش و نوشتارش سرشار از ابهام و سخت خوان بود .
نمی دانم اما  از وسط ها به بعد حس کردم لذت می برم  از سطور و حتی تقطیع هایی که پیش از این آزارم می داد.
نمی دانم ابهام کم شد یا من عادت کردم.
به همین دلیل نمی دانم چقدر وفادار بود ترجمه...
It broke me.
In college, I was ridiculous and decided I would contrarily dislike Ginsberg--never having read anything by him--just because everybody else loved him. Then I took a class on modern American poetry in which we read this book, and THANK GOD. I read the first line:Strange now to think of you, gone without corsets & eyes, while I walk on the sunny pavement of Greenwich Village....and that was that. I was saved from my own stupidity. It's possible that this book is really more of a four-star title, but for me it's a clear fiver.
Open mouth weeping
It often feels more like therapy for Ginsberg, revisiting his broken childhood, than something which is relatable to most other people.The poems that immediately follow Kaddish concern themselves with the ingredients of greatness, Ignu being, to me, the strongest of all of them; a prolonged meditation on artistic self-destruction.
Ayahuasca is still extant only on the fringes of society (much moreso than LSD anyway) but anyone who's read any Ayahuasca literature before will likely find his three poems on the subject bringing little new to the table.
More and more, I think that Allen Ginsberg was the best of the beat generation litterateurs.
Kaddish and Other Poems: 50th Anniversary Edition proves it: It is a tortured valentine to his poor, mad mother who died in 1956 in an insane asylum.
In a poem dedicated to Gary Snyder called "Laughing Gas," he writes:I'm disgusted!
It's unbelievable!What a funny horribledirty joke!The whole universe a shaggy dog story!with a weird ending that begins againtill you get the pointOn can get weary of the other beats, but Allen Ginsberg alone is worth re-reading "till you get the point."
Howl will tell you about sex and drugs and the dregs of America, but Kaddish is hands down Ginsberg's (second) greatest Poem.
It's a dedication to his mother, completed three years after her death, and somehow crams more than a lifetime's worth of memories and nightmares into 30 pages, the most painful relationship of mother and son ever set to page, only for its honesty about paranoia, about sex, about the sense of loss mixed with relief and the sadness over brother and step-father already moving on with their lives.
Poem Rocket and Europe!
Europe!
provide the perfect drug-fueled palate cleansers to help you start breathing normally again.
Leer a Ginsberg es siempre un placer y ningún otro escritor sabe arrancarme el alma y volverla a poner en su sitio como él y sus poemas.
En Kaddish nos encontramos con poemas desgarradores, llenos de emoción en los que la muerte y el misterio de la vida toman formas inesperadas y surrealistas.
El retrato se la vida y muerte de su madre es bello y terriblemente triste al mismo tiempo y te transmite su historia de manera íntima.Nunca seré capaz de expresar todo lo que la poesía de Ginsberg me hace sentir, pero es sin duda algo único que eleva el alma a otra dimensión.
Haunting and destroying. But Ginsberg teaches us how to pick the pieces up, even after one's soul, life, country crashes to the ground. Poet as priest; poem as prophecy hold up rather well here. Maybe it doesn't say such good things about our abilities to evolve, though, when we're given over to economic forces...
But the more I read, the more I felt the entire work was a kind of hustle, and Ginsberg, a grifter playing on our emotions and deference of the sacred.In the poem "Mescaline," the poet asks, "...who wants to be famous and sign autographs like a movie/ star." The answer is, of course, Ginsberg, who went on to construct a life with the deliberate intensity of a movie or rock star, and who would be famous and sign autographs like a movie star.Over all, the poems share: facile politics, spiritual references without depth, confessions that don't feel heartfelt and pseudo-poetic speech, all combined with an adolescent's pleasure in vulgarity and profanity.While I thought both the collection and the poem, "Howl" overwrought and self-regarding, the book had at least two poems, "A Supermarket in California" and "In the Baggage Room at Greyhound" I would read again.
I actually liked this one better than Howl. The personal poems are more concrete. I also liked that the book had a narrative running throughout, starting with Ginsberg's ode to his late mother, running through his trip to France to visit famous cemeteries. Definitely captures a specific time in the poet's life.
I would probably give this 3.5 out of 5 stars. The narrative on Ginsberg's mother Naomi is really heart wrenching and beautiful. I felt like the topic of the oblivion of death was interesting but I would've liked to see them go deeper. Overall, very well-written poetry though!
loved this tbh
Added on Yom Kippur ...
I don't think we deserve Allen Ginsberg.
While a very strong, honest, and deeply personal work, I prefer the wild imagery of "Howl" and "Reality Sandwiches." The title poem is very sincere and emotionally gripping, but very, very sad, talking reflectively, painfully, and mournfully about the death and sad and tortured life of his mother, Naomi Ginsberg, a woman who really struggled with her mental health (I didn't know she had a lobotomy!).
Of all the poems contained in this work, I really enjoyed "Death to Van Gogh's Ear!" -- a poem loaded with social criticism and commentary and "Laughing Gas" ("The universe is a void/in which there is a dreamhole/The dream disappears/the hole closes.
Ginsberg, back from Europe, is angry.
It is 1960 and by now his friend Kerouac is on a downward spiral.
His mother, Naomi, has passed away, insane at the end.
And Ginsberg himself apparently didn't find whatever he was looking for in Paris or Amsterdam.
He writes in "Man's Glory": 'America...
the Anger, the Anger, Beware!' It's ominous: JFK's assassination and Vietnam are both on the horizon, huge changes are in the air.
Reading Ginsberg's poetry in the order in which it was written is much like reading a luminous and painful autobiography.
I'm hoping for more hope and less pain in the next volume.
"con tus ojos siendo arrastrada por los policías hasta una ambulanciacon tus ojos amarrada a la mesa de operaciones con tus ojos de páncreas extirpado con tus ojos de operación de apéndice con tus ojos de aborto con tus ojos de ovarios extirpados con tus ojos de electroshock con tus ojos de lobotomía con tus ojos de divorcio con tus ojos de derrame con tus ojos sola con tus ojos con tus ojos con tu Muerte llena de Flores"Kaddish se lleva todas las estrellas del universo, son 'los otros poemas' los que rebajan la intensidad y el dolor materno-filial.
"Alongside Howl, this book is generally regarded as a major work in the Ginsberg canon. Kaddish relates to Ginsberg's mother Naomi, she suffered severe mental illness and died in 1956. Her life and the manner of her death had a devastating impact upon a young Allen Ginsberg and he wrestled with thoughts of her all his life."- Pauline Reeves, Beat Scene No.64, Spring 2011
"Soyez muette pour moi, Idole contemplative...""Be mute for me, contemplative Idol..."
Heartbreaking and beautiful book about the Jewish experience of guilt, death, and self-loathing. He really got it.
Although HOWL is his most famous poem, I think history will eventually pick this poem as his greatest work.
و چگونه مرگ آن شفایی است که تمام آوازه خوانان در رویای آنند.بخوان، به یاد بیاور پیشگویی را در سرود عبری یا کتاب پاسخ های بودایی یا در تخیلاتم؛ از یک برگ خشک در سپیده دم.
The title poem is, to my mind, one of the most brilliant poems ever composed.
Amazing in its depth and detail, it is about Ginsberg's mother, who had passed away.
He reveals the complex relationship he had with her and her struggles with mental illness.
For much of the time, Ginsberg is present as his mother's condition spirals downward.
The situation forces the author to reckon with impermanence and his own mortality.
The result is a charged poetic narration of the events and how the family reacts.
"Howl" had brought Ginsberg fame a few years before, but it's this work that stands as his masterpiece.
Wow! Doubled enjoyed, firstly because it was read unexpectedly as was gifted to me! Second because of its beatnik spontaneous writing feel! I had never fully read Ginsberg before, only parts of the Howl, but this one was very much appreciated! I could feel his pain in his poetry! Not the usual poetry though what makes it different! Will now definitely get the Howl and Other Poems!
I don't know, I guess this one just wasn't for me. Over the course of reading Ginsberg only a couple of poems have stuck in my memory- Sunflower Sutra, A Supermarket in California & Transcription of Organ Music. I wanted to like Howl (sure I understand its significance) & Kaddish but can't really say I did. I'll keep trying with him though as I received his Collected Poems as a gift.
This collection of poems is as beautiful as it is heartbreaking. Although, in my opinion, Howl is still the best he's written, this collection has true gems, being Death To Van Gogh's Ear the most vibrant, and definitely my favorite.
