https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93251.The_October_Country
I love the reading of Bradbury on a crisp, autumn morning … sounds like October.The October Country is a collection of short stories by the Grandmaster writer Ray Bradbury.
Whose people passing at night on the empty walks sound like rain.” 	These are some of his best stories, told with imagination and his deft, descriptive virtuoso use of the language.
M. Night Shyamalan must have been influenced by Bradbury’s “Jack in the Box”, and his influence on modern fiction can be seen throughout the pages.
"Only the dead are eternally cool" - as Hakim Bey said), the little details (he's great at ceramics!), and even some unexpected argument from the other side (the heavy man's fat as a buffer against the battering of life, and a way to trap the skeleton in organic tar), topped off with a bizarre character that makes it a bone fide "weird tale" (*salty breadsticks*) and a memorable last line- you've got yourself a killer story."The Jar" has been adapted a few times (I seem to remember a version on The New Alfred Hitchcock Presents TV show from the 80s in which the country bumpkin setting is switched with a modern art one) and it's a pretty solid, creepy story, although Bradbury's tendency to overwrite becomes a bit cartoonish when (at least, I feel) he's writing characters of a "type" that he's not directly familiar with.
Finally!
Finally, I've read this classic collection of short stories by Ray Bradbury.
I'm so glad that I did.
What can I say about this that hasn't already been said?
It's beautifully written.
Some of the stories were so haunting, I know that they will stick with me for the rest of my life: Ones like "The Scythe" and "The Dwarf", "Jack in the Box" and "Homecoming." Bradbury's style is sparse; he packs a lot of meaning into very few words.
Seriously, it's amazing.I highly recommend this collection of short stories written by one of the masters of the form!
"...that country where it is always turning late in the year.
Whose people passing at night on the empty walks sound like rain..."A collection of 19 macabre tales from who many consider to be the finest writer of fantastic fiction.It is a truth universally acknowledged that the majority of short story collections are hit and miss.
Or...something like that ;)This was a really fun collection to read during my road trip in New England - it was quite easy to fit in a story or two each evening.
One of the best short story collections I've ever read - it's up there alongside King's Night Shift and Clive Barker's Books of Blood.
I'll just muddle through as usual then!The October Country is a collection of Ray Bradbury's macabre stories, I hesitate to label them as "horror stories" because they are not particularly horrifying, but they are mostly odd and unsettling, almost "new weird" but disqualified on the "new" part!
It is actually quite wonderful, a great way to end the book.TL;DR: My favorite stories are "Skeleton", "The Small Assassin" and "The Wonderful Death of Dudley Stone".Probably not Bradbury's best collection but Bradbury is always well worth reading.
This was a great collection of short stories by Ray Bradbury! I’m so glad I read this book in October with the leaves coming down, the air was crisp and Halloween was around the corner. It really added to the overall atmosphere for the book.Favorite short stories:“The Next in Line”, “Skeleton”, “The Emissary”, “The Small Assassin” and “The Scythe”!Bradbury’s writing is so beautiful, flawless and fantastical. I definitely recommend this collection to Bradbury fans and anyone that enjoys horror and fantasy genres!
October Country...that country where it is always turning late in the year. That country where the hills are fog and the rivers are mist; where noons go quickly, dusks and twilights linger, and midnights stay. That country composed in the main of cellars, sub-cellars, coal bins, closets, attics, and pantries faced away from the sun. That country whose people are autumn people, thinking only autumn thoughts. Whose people passing at night on the empty walks sound like rain... Fall is probably my
It casts a special shine which is not there in other seasons, and yellowing leaves make the streets look as if they were paved with gold.My copy of The October Country has a new introduction by Ray Bradbury, written in 1999, where he claims to remembering being born and the development of his passion for stories and storytelling.
Unlike Uncle Einar, Homecoming is a sad story of a boy who wishes to belong but will always be an outsider, even with the complete support of his adoptive family.My favorite story from the entire collection is probably The Scythe, which is a great, imaginative story, in the nature of the folk tales that I read as a young boy.
I am thinking of adding as a subtitle  High Anxiety  for the whole set and then play a game of 'Name That Fear' for each episode: The Dwarf  is a great opening gambit, probably one of the earliest shorts written by the author, illustrating his fascination with carnivals and with the grotesque.
In this short story, a boy is immobilized in bed by illness, and his trusty dog is his only contact with the outside world, by bringing in the twigs and burrs and the smells of the places it visits.
But I still found enough to love in them that I didn't just despair from boredom.For one, I'm familiar enough with so many movies and tv shows and even music to exclaim...
Bradbury has great ideas!
I love writers that take ideas and do something extraordinary, and back when these were written, that was probably the case.Something to consider: His story "Touched with Fire" has a great, perhaps apocryphal, line about more murders occurring at 92 degrees F than any other temperature.
And then it was used in a great song by Siouxsie and the Banshees.
I love that song!
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge: A book by an author with the same first or last name as you*1.5/5*I quite enjoyed The Small Assassin and The Crowd (The Scythe was decent as well) but the rest of these stories did nothing for me. The Illustrated Man is a far superior collection of short stories in my opinion, so I’d recommend that.
Ray Bradbury.
In this collection of a few of his short stories, some are Literature, and his genius is only unrecognized beyond our small corner of science fiction and fantasy because the outside world hasn't met him yet.
His magic, when they finally do meet him, will open their minds and hearts to his true magnificent talents.
Some are Magic Realism.
Some have no touch of science fiction or fantasy and are simply great short stories.
Bradbury needs to be read by some scholar and re-evaluated.
I have every confidence Bradbury's true place in literature would be secured.
Solid writing with some great atmospheric tension! As always in collections, some stories stand out for me more than others. I doubt that I will forget the lingering, oppressive feelings of "Jack-in-the-Box" anytime soon. Another that keeps coming to mind was The Dwarf. I can say that there are some stories that will "click" with almost everyone out there--something to suit everyone's tastes.Highly recommended!
This is a great collection of classic short horror stories by Ray Bradbury. There is no shock and awe here, like you might find from more modern horror writers. Rather, there are well-crafted and well-written tales of suspense, horror and atmosphere. It is an excellent read for the Halloween season.
As Neil Gaiman once said, Bradbury is to experienced in October and after reading three of his books as well as this short story collection, I quite agree.
He seems to have loved this time of year as much as I do, as is evidenced by this "introduction" to The October Country:October Country .
My favourites were- The Lake- The Emissary- Jack-in-the-Box- The Scythebut "The Next in Line" was great, too.As is typical for Bradbury, he used the stories to not only create an autumn-y feel for the reader but to also address topics such as religion, love, death and many more.
Anyone is capable of producing a picture which paints a thousand words, Mr Bradbury is capable of giving birth to words which paint a thousand pictures.
The man is a true master who uses this art to deliver incredible tales which makes you blow your cheeks out, sit back and smile.Except the one in here which must have been written on a bad acid trip.I love the short stories, but also hate 'em.
There’s not enough here to get your teeth into at times, but I suppose to leave us wanting more is part of the art.Just sublime….EDIT: Christ, I really must stop writing reviews when I'm drunk!

I've been dipping into this exquisite short story collection for quite some time now, and it is with great ambivalence that I have, at long last, finished reading it.
Though I am happy that I have finally read all of the stories in The October Country, I only wish there were but one more left to consume.
But alas, the final page has come, and I must now return this book to its rightful place on the shelf with its brothers and sisters, knowing I will undoubtedly retrieve it for a reread many times in the years to come.
ستتوقع الكثير عندما تقرأ مجموعة قصصية لصاحب الخالدة 451 فاهرنهايت، لن تخذلك الأفكارولن يحبطك الأسلوب، ولكن قد تطمح لأكثر من ذلك قليلاً.تُعرف هذه المجموعة على أنها تنتنمي إلى صنف الرعب والغموض، وهي حقاً ترسم على مخاوف الإنسان وكل ماقد يسبب له القشعريرة.
هناك الرحالة الذي يتكشف سراً يتعلق بالرياح فتتعقبه وتقسم على الانتقام منه.
كما ترون، فالحكايات في الكتاب تتعمق في شخصيات البشر وستجدون أيضاً أنها تزخر بحوارات عميقة ومواقف مؤثرة.المجموعة جميلة ولكن لإخلاء المسؤولية، أحب أن أنوه بأنها لا تنتمي إلى صنف الرعب الخام الذي يجعل نوم يجافي جفنيك، إنما هي من ذلك النوع الذي يجعلك تفكر وتتعجب.
I need to say two things right from the very beginning: 1) This is only the second book I've read by Bradbury, which is shameful, but I plan on rectifying that, and 2) I think I would have loved this collection even more if I had read it in the fall.
But alas, I picked it up in February, and while the "twilights no longer linger" and people are no longer "thinking autumn thoughts" it's still always autumn in my heart.This is a really unusual and eclectic mix of horror/weird fiction stories.
But I think my expectations were so high I was wanting too much out of this one.Calling attention to a few stories:SKELETON: This was an interesting horror tale, and I'm fairly sure I read an EC comic adaptation.
(hide spoiler)]THE CROWD: Not the best story, but I remember it because it was the first episode of the tv series RAY BRADBURY THEATER.THE SCYTHE: Pretty damn disturbing, but a great idea for a story.THE WIND: Another good horror tale.

"The Next in Line" (5 stars)- Loved it from beginning to end.
I thought this was OK, but it didn't blow me away as much as "Next in Line" and some of the other stories I really enjoyed.
"The Jar" (3.5 stars)- Good story about the power of imagination as well as past regrets.
"Uncle Einar" (5 stars)- Not horror really, this was actually a very sweet love story I thought.
I'm still surprised it ended up in this collection."The Wind" (3 stars)- Eh. Okay, not great.
I used to read my sister's copy over and over! Next to the Martian Chronicles, I believe they are Bradbury's best short stories, and they are certainly his creepiest!
They are quite indiciative of their time, and I enjoyed the peek back to what people in the early part of last century considered shocking or spooky.
And while they are not subtle, in the vein of "the hook was hanging from the car door!" they did make me ponder how it seems we've become saturated as a whole and need more scares, unrelenting horror, the busting through of our comfort zones to consider something "scary."Towards the end, I realized it was weaving a tapestry of unease, and the atmosphere started to crawl under my skin.
Then I thought of living in a world without electricity, without easy access to community on a 24-7 basis, and how these stories would have seemed in the long dark, with just a candle to read by.
Reread for an upcoming A Good Story is Hard to Find podcast (episode is here).
I read this innumerable times in high school and college.
It's interesting how some of the stories that I enjoyed most as a high school student were so chilling that I couldn't actually read them ...
One turned out to be my favorite in the collection: The Wonderful Death of Dudley Stone.This is a great collection ranging from nostalgic to horrific.
Even the most horrific, however, are without actual gore.
Easily a 5* collection. Something for every horror fan: the gritty truth of life and death, the seedy underbelly of a small Mexican town, the wistfulness of the macabre, evil babies, mystery sideshow jars...A light hand in writing and plotting with such creativity that I wondered how Bradbury even came up with this stuff.
3.5A nice collection of short stories to start my favorite time of year.
It is no wonder that the last image of the book ironically praises the glory of being nobody heading nowhere:“I watched the dead man stomp and leap across the platform, felt the plankings shudder, saw him jump into his Model-T, heard it lurch under his bulk, saw him bang the floor-boards with a big foot, idle the motor, roar it, turn, smile, wave to me, and then roar off and away toward that suddenly brilliant town called Obscurity by a dazzling seashore called The Past.”That even death cannot end social iniquities is revealed in the very dark satire of The Next in Line: a poor village became famous for its mommies, not ancient but new, for hundreds of bodies are tossed in catacombs where the dry quality of the air stops the putrefaction process.
Bradbury, insan unsuru üzerine eğilir; yaşayış biçimi, davranışları ve düşünce sistemi üstünde durur.
Bu öykülerdeki farklılık, bizim düşünüş ve yaşayış biçimlerimizden ziyade duygularımıza eğilmiş olması.
Bradbury’nin bu öykülerdeki amacı hissettirmek.
Kimi zaman tüyleriniz diken diken olacak kimi zaman ise yalnız başınıza okumaya çekineceksiniz.Kimi öyküde çocukluk aşkını kaybetmiş birini bulacaksınız, kimisinde bebeğinden korkan bir kadın.
Bir diğerinde ise kendini değersiz gören bir çocuk.
Bir Einer Amca bulacaksınız, seveceksiniz.
Tavuğun içini merak eden bir başka çocuk bulacaksınız.
“Rüzgar” isimli öyküyü okurken belki de bir rüzgar sesi gelecek kulağınıza, kapının altından bir esinti vuracak ayaklarınıza.
Öyküleri okurken belki çocukluğunuzdan bir şeyler bulacaksınız.
Many years ago, when my reading tastes were first being formulated, there were two authors that I really connected to: Agatha Christie and Ray Bradbury.
These were the first authors I read that felt like "mine".
There were stories here that I had forgotten were stories, stories that have become such a part of my memory that I couldn't remember who told them to me or where I might have heard them.Bradbury had a beautiful way with language, a way of writing that only sounds good in your head.
