https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187731.The_Mediterranean_and_the_Mediterranean_World_in_the_Age_of_Philip_II_Volume_2
The enforced captivity provided the stillness necessary for the years of education and time spent working as a teacher in French North Africa to settle and condense into this book.First published in 1949, revised for a second edition in 1965, translated into English & published in 1972, I bought a copy many years ago as an A-level student and didn't read it.
The rest of the volume (901-1244; there follows 131 pages on sources, bibliography, indices) contains a long, detailed, and highly traditional narrative history of an obscure and unimportant period of time – the 30-35 year period during the reign (mostly) of Philip II (from 1550-1580/1584) and his struggle to maintain his position in the Mediterranean against the Ottoman Turks.
The final section is not terribly interesting (and I admit to having read it very lightly): a long narrative of an unimportant period (see above), that is, moreover, tightly focused merely on what Braudel calls the ‘event’, “the ephemera of history; they pass across its stage like fireflies, hardly glimpsed before they settle back into darkness and…oblivion” (901).
Braudel's massive scholarly treatment of the Mediterranean from 1550 to 1600 is in three parts split between two volumes.
History has often recorded the battle as a great spectacle—which lead nowhere.
Braudel argues that while it did not lead to further successes, it did bring the erosion of the Christian world to a halt, and break a defeatist sentiment that had taken root.Like the first half, it is a truly massive undertaking, and well deserving of its status of one of the landmarks of 20th century historiography.
Kitaptaki İspanyolca, İtalyanca, Latince ve bir kaç Almanca alintı da dipnotlarla tercüme edilseydi çok güzel olurdu.Akdeniz'in ekonomik, sosyal, siyasi, askeri ve kültürel cephelerine ilişkin çok değerli bilgiler içeriyor. İstatistikleri kullanarak devri açıklamaya çalışırken insan ve toplumdan kopmaması da çok etkileyiciydi.
After reading the first volume, I had to learn how it turned out for the Turks.
So much fun.
Braudel's masterful look at the Mediterranean comes in three flavors: geography, systems, and, somewhat reluctantly, events. All three are fascinating and explored at great length and detail. If I have one regret it's that Braudel is writing before much research was done on the Ottoman Empire and so this book is somewhat overly focused on the Spanish and Italian side of events, because that's where the research was. But that's a minor quibble about a masterpiece.
AKDENİZ -Mekân, Tarih, İnsanlar ve Miras--Mezopotamya Uygarlığı, Fırat ve Dicle boyunca tulumlu sallarla aşağıya doğru gidip, eşeklerle geri dönme sistemi üzerine kuruluydu.-M.Ö.1450 civarında patlayan SANTORINI VOLKANI, Girit-Miken Uygarlığının çöküşüne ve Yahudilerin Mısır'dan çıkışına tekabül etmektedir.-M.Ö.6.yy.
Pers-Kartaca İmparatorluklarının sınırları, yaklaşık olarak güncel İslamın sınırlarına; Roma İmparatorluğunun sınırları ise Hıristiyanlığın sınırlarına tekabül eder.-Atina Uygarlığında KADIN, erkekten çok az hakka sahiptir; ayine ve tapınağa gidemez, mezarlığa girebilir ve ölü arkasından ağıt yakabilir (bu sırada erkekler ölü evinin yemeğini yemektedir) -Paskalya öncesindeki haftada katolikler İsa'nın ölümüne ağıt yakarken, ortodokslar İsa'nın doğumuna sevinirler.-GERÇEK kavramını Yunan/Slav dillerinde ifade eden PRAVDA kelimesi, tanrısallık/aşkınlık/adalet içerirken, Latin dillerindeki karşılığı olan VERITAS kelimesi ise insanilik/akılcılık/hiyerarşi kavramlarına içkindir.

Not as accessible as volume 1, but more focused on specific events, and leaders of the time rather than the everyday life of ordinary people. In particular, emphasis is given of events and battles during the time Phillip II of Spain, the French, English, Dutch and the Ottomans. Very detailed account, especially on the Battle of Lepanto.
Edition irrelevant.2005-06-08
Arguably the greatest historical text of all time
