https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828166.Ride_the_River
She might need her cool head and firearms skills (and her "Arkansas toothpick") on this trip, because there are those who didn't want that ad seen to start with, and who'd prefer to have that money in their own pockets, rather than hers.One reviewer said he felt this novel was "gimmicky." I'm not sure what he considered the "gimmick" --possibly the protagonist's gender, or the Sackett family's clannish ethos of sticking together and helping each other in the face of trouble, including attacks by outsiders.
Echo serves as first-person narrator for most of the book; but for scenes to which she isn't privy, or where he wants to give us a different perspective, L'Amour occasionally uses other viewpoint characters, in third person.
What could you do in a fight?"At five foot two and 100 pounds soaking wet, there's not much that men think slim, pretty Echo Sackett can do.
So, when she goes to collect an inheritance crooked lawyers, city slickers, and street toughs try to con her out of her money.
And being a Sackett means that she knows her way around a rifle, a pistol, and a knife better than almost any man.This book was a blast.
Taking place nearly two hundred years after the last Sackett book, Echo out thinks, out fights and out wits a baker's dozen of crooked men.
I'm serious, L'Amour was decades ahead on this; Echo would fit seamlessly in the current girl warrior cadre.Okay, now that I've used an entire year's worth of exclamation points, I'll do my best not to squee all over this review.
(I very nearly used another exclamation point, there.
He's much more than that, of course (which you can tell because I liked him), but it was fascinating to see the gender reversal pulled off so beautifully without diminishing either one in the slightest.This was very nearly my first five-star L'Amour, but as good as it is, I can't quite bring myself to do it.
This was a fun little romp, but boy oh boy does L'Amour's style grate on me. And the romance was...well, you could see the girl falling in love, but the guy seemed pretty indifferent right up until he wasn't. Still, very exciting action, and I loved the main character--she was tough but feminine and it really worked.
It's been far too long since I re-read my favorite Louis L'amour books.
These were the books I grew up reading in my teens.
Perhaps it was books like this one that made me confused when other readers talked about the lack of strong female characters in older books.
Because I grew up reading about girls like Echo Sackett who at 16 could out-hunt and out-shoot most men in the hills, travel from Tennessee to Philadelphia and back with a pack of greedy murderers on her trail, and somehow keep the city-slicker tag-a-long alive.
Echo is strong but also feminine.
7/22/18 - finally finished audiobook. The narrator was OK, not great, but the entire audiobook suffered from a faint distortion - flutter? tape wobble? It seemed likely this had been transferred from a cassette tape; the flutter was fairly even throughout the entire book. Regardless, this was a nice little tale, by far from the best of L'Amour's stories, but nice to have a female POV character.
5 starsMy first western novel. Very good. Still have to get used to the old way of speaking. Liked Echo. Hope they will put the money to good use.Can't wait to read more Sackett novels!!!!!
Once arriving in Philledelphia, however, Echo discovers that a greedy lawyer never intended the article to reach Tennessee, let alone hand the rightful heir the money.
A kindly, old lawyer becomes involved and after attaining about three grand and a ruby in a box, Echo undertakes a perilous journey home with thieves and murderers constantly shooting at her or stealing her bag.
Amid all the horse riding, stagecoach hopping, streamrolling, canoeing, and in between shooting off bad guys' ears, Echo developes a crush on the kindly lawyer's nephew, who has come along attempting to help her reach home safely.
This is my favorite book of the Sackett series by L'Amour.
I suspect that the fact that I was a young girl when I read it had something to do with it...
I wanted to be as cool as Echo was.*Edit, 5/15/2018*I just reread this book for about the millionth time.
I still enjoy the story (Echo is such a badass, while not being arrogant about it), but this time I noticed some errors - like switching points of view in the middle of a page with no warning.
I don’t know if that was on purpose or was just poor copy editing.
I'll admit to having put off picking up this one, even though so far the Sackett books have pretty much been a sausage fest (for all that each one of them is about the winning of a wife as awesome as each novel's hero deserves), partly because I wasn't sure how well Louis L'Amour could really do a female voice, mostly because it seemed from the opening paragraphs, that his version of said female voice was in backwoods dialect, and I'm still getting over the wounds dealt to me on that score by one Mr. Stephen King (see the footnote to my reaction to fan unfavorite Wizard and Glass).
This is a refreshing adventure that pits a small Sackett female against a bunch of big men a couple of decades before the Civil War. Neither city slickers nor run-of-the-mill woodsmen are going to steal from this mountain girl. Hardest thing about this story is finding a break in the action long enough so that you can put it down! (I've read it 6 times since it was published in 1983.)
Best one so far! I enjoyed reading from Echo Sackett's point of view. She was a tough mountain girl and she held her own. On to the next book!
My least favorite so far in the Sackett series. However, still a great adventure.
This is one of my favorite Sackett novels. In particular as it has a heroine with Echo. Her journey to receive an inheritance with a corrupt lawyer and her journey home overcoming all obstacles.
It has been awhile since I have read any Louis L'Amour and this reminded me why I love them so much. One of the shorter Sackett books but still a good story.
We don’t know if she figured out the value of the mysterious metal box she carried (and frankly I’m surprised her curiosity didn’t cause her to try to open the darn thing – totally unrealistic part of the story).
This felt to me like the start of another series, and it begs for a sequel that continues the story from where it left off.
When I read something like this, I will either feel ready to start the next one, or I will feel the author manipulated me to sell future books.
I admit that in the moment of reading, except for the heroines whining about money, this was an entertaining story.
Well this is the second book I have read by this author, and if the books were not free gifts I never would have read the first and definitely not the second.
However, the author did improve in this second installation in both character development and story line.
Ride the river is about a young girl traveling alone across a few states back in the day (late 1800's early 1900's) and complications which can arise in such situations.
There is a long chase, hunt and traveling to get through the book, only to have it wrapped up snuggly in two pages.cliff hanger doesn't cover it, lack of planning is more likely.
Echo Sackett has no idea what is waiting for her when she journeys from her beloved mountains to Philadelphia to collect an inheritance.
After all Echo is a Sackett!Echo's youth, slight build and the fact she is from the mountains make her look like any easy target.
However, Echo is a strong mountain girl who is smart, adept at tracking, shooting etc proving to be more than a match for those after her.With a little luck and some help will Echo manage to make it back home with her inheritance intact?

How can you go wrong with Louis L'Amour. I picked this particular book from my complete collection and reread it again for the umpteenth time. Echo Sackett is a Tennessee mountain girl who travels to Philadelphia by herself to collect an inheritance. Shyster lawyers and bad men try to trick her out of her money and eventually steal it for a time. They just don't know who they've tangled with. Intrigue, romance, murder, history and family are packed into this giant novel of a little paperback book. I simply love it! You will too.
Probably most folks know of L'Amour's favorite fictional family, the Sacketts. I really liked most of the Sackett books, but while this one was OK, it wasn't up to the best in the series. It features the female character, Echo Sackett, and it seemed at times a little gimmicky to me.
This here is what a woman should be.
Good read
Found this in a cabin I was staying in over the holiday weekend, a fun escapist read, although certainly old-fashioned. L'Amour crafts vibrant, if somewhat exaggerated, characters and brisk plots.
An easy and enjoyable readThe pace and tempo of the action keeps you reading. As always L. GLamour delivers. There is never a bad read with Louis.
This book begins with Echo Sackett arriving in Philadelphia to claim money promised to the youngest descendant of Kin Sackett.
The plot of the book is them traveling back to her home, and trying to keep the money that is rightfully Echo’s.
We can see this because Echo and Dorian (the nephew) have to fight the robber and murderer.
I would say that one theme of this book is “Greed promotes people to do horrible things.” The conflict helps this certain view to show.
So in conclusion, the conflict of a novel drastically affects the theme, plot, and characters.I really liked this book.
So senses her brother were trapping beaver and her uncle just had a run in with a bear little Echo Sackett had to go get the money herself and bring it back home in the Tennessee mountains.
The book was interesting because it had a good based where a girl in the 1800s had to be, and the western parts with the outlaws and money how most western books are.
I though the Book was ok it was different than most Louis L’amour books because the main character was a girl.
I thank that the book was hard to understand and I feel like you couldn’t make sense of it.
If you love a strong female character then Echo Sackett is the one for you.
You hurt one and the are likely to have to fight them all.Echo and her family find a notice about an inheritance in a paper from Philadelphia.
Her family lives in the hills of Tennessee and they need the money.
She is followed by a good sized group of outlaws and ne'er do wells.
I love his books and they never disappoint, well maybe a little.
It would have been nice to know what happen between Echo and Dorian.
What happened to Archie and the dog.
However, not everyone wants her to have the inheritance.My rating is based upon the accuracy of the details after she started on her riverbank journey.
The journey on the Ohio, Big Sandy and Tug Fork were accurate except for mention of things on the "West Virginia side" of the rivers.
If the setting was later, such as after the 1860, I thought gunsmiths were making guns, or replacing parts, with interchangeable parts and having the ability to fire more than one shot before reloading and priming again.
I thought the interchangeable parts to machinery, including guns, were part of Whitney's inventions and the early days of the Industrial Revolution.
No mention was made of when the story occurred.
A few years ago I would have really liked this story.
The theme was worn out and repetitive, Girl from the hills of Tennessee, Echo Sackett, goes to the big city of Philadelphia to take home some money, supposedly promised to the last kin of one of the Sackett's.
I got tired of the line, how poor the Sackett's were and how much they needed the money.
I did like the character of Echo Sackett.
I would have liked more information on Mordecai Sackett.
Did her escort stay in Tennessee or did he go home to Philadelphia?
