https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356.Time_for_the_Stars
The Corsican Brothers go to space.Or at least one of them.First published in 1956, Heinlein’s Time for the Stars is one of his Scribner’s juvenile books, and one of the better ones, somewhat similar to Starman Jones.
In whichever camp one finds himself, Time for the Stats is one of his better novels.My final point to make on this book is an unusual observation about Heinlein’s work in general.

Slowly but surely, my obsession with young adult space stories will knock every Heinlein juvenile book off my to-read list.
I'm not going to go over why I felt the way I did about Podkayne but in Time for the Stars, though it was far less frustrating, I was still not satisfied with the female presence in the book.
He is a conversational narrator so his voice was/is well-suited to the diary-entry format of Time for the Stars.As is the story with Podkayne of Mars, there is enough fun world-building present that I wish Heinlein would set more books in this world, perhaps even incorporate some of the same characters.
It is a Heinlein novel, after all.)In Time for the Stars, twins Tom and Pat join an experimental scientific study to see if telepathy might be a viable way for Earth to communicate with her exploring spaceships.
Third, the boys will now age at different rates because of relativity, so even if the one who leaves ever comes back, he will be much younger than his twin.All of this gives Time for the Stars an emotional texture that makes this story feel weightier than your average YA SF adventure.
This sets the scene for taking two teenage boys who are as close as any are likely to be and first putting a spike in the relationship by offering just one the dream of a lifetime, being among the first to get to explore the stars, provided the other stays home, and then have them linked and maintain their relationship over a few years for one and a long lifetime for the other.
It probably deserves only 3 stars, but I'm giving it 4 because this novel showed me why Heinlein is one of the fathers of science fiction.
The world-building of the future is done so well, especially in the case of the science and the explanation of it in ways that allowed me to suspend disbelief.
Additionally, as a coming of age novel I could imagine this resonating with young people (boys, in particular) as we get inside the narrator's head as he experiences his growth from adolescence to adulthood while in space.Where this book loses stars is the dated feel to it.
Though the science seems advanced, the social aspects of the world are clearly colored by the time that Heinlein wrote it.

This science-fiction novel was exactly what I was looking for at this time. It dealt with mankind's first exploration of planets outside our solar system. What I especially loved was the author did not burden the reader with tons of technical language. It was kept to a bare minimum. I'm so glad that I read TIME FOR THE STARS (1956) by Robert Heinlein.
Though movies, books and music take time to work their way from inspiration to dissemination, they still have a relatively brief gestation, and taken as a whole, they reflect and amplify some oftentimes hidden aspects of our culture.Since this is a science fiction and fantasy column, it’s pretty obvious what the focus will be, but the same arguments apply across a much broader spectrum – and the same insights emerge.Recently, publishers sent me a couple of books by writers from the so-called Golden Age (which shines much more brightly because, like classical music, the trash has been forgotten).
I don't really follow the division between the second and third period myself.My point, however, is that as a kid doing research for a paper on sci-fi, I learned about the turning point in Heinlein's writing and I was only interested in the later, "serious" stuff, like Starship Troopers, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, and Stranger in a Strange Land.
(Wikipedia puts the book in his middle period because it came out in 1964, but it's a fix-up novel made from shorter works that were published in 1941, so it ought to be categorized in his first phase.) But I think the thing that's most interesting is that--when he had to keep editors satisfied that his writing was largely kid-safe--he was just as stridently political.
“I don’t like to be around twins, they make me think I’m seeing double.”Time for the Stars is one of the twelve ‘Heinlein Juveniles’ series of books the author wrote between 1947 and 1958.
-They take part in an experiment concerning telepathy and communication between spaceships.-There are some imaginative scenes of space and planetary exploration.-The book touches on the twin paradox regarding travel at the speed of light and aging.-It also addresses family relationships and sibling rivalry.-The ending is a bit of a “Wait!
I have been warned off some of Heinlein’s later stories, but I’m open to suggestions for what anyone thinks is worth a read.
Heinlein at his very best!
Though Spider Robinson may be "the new Robert A.
Heinlein", there is no one like the original.
This book is not quite completely in the juvenile Heinlein group and yet not in the adult Heinlein group.
As one reviewer (Manny) put it: "an important novel, marking the transition from juvenile-Heinlein to proto-dirty-old-man-Heinlein." (Edit: There's nothing explicit in this book much beyond the noticing of bits and pieces and the desire they inspire.) It is a quick thoroughly enjoyable read.
It's exactly the kind of book I like to read.
I really enjoyed Stranger in a Strangeland when I read it a couple of years ago.
Time for Stars was on sale at Audible, so being a compulsive book buyer, I bought it.
It was really good, and I am officially a big Heinlein fan now.
I want more of his books!!!
but I'm on a book-buying hiatus.
At the beginning, the book is about twins and telepathy, and then it branches into the realm of space travel (only lightly), finally it discusses what makes a planet habitable.
Really great book.
It wasn't action-y like most of the fantasy I read, but I was never bored.
No spoilers here.Another Heinlein juvenile. Have been trying to finish this run. Published in 1956, and certainly dated, although I find that not all of Heinlein's writings are. The premise here is that spaceships are launched to search for habitable planets to colonize. Twins and triplets are found to possess telepathy between each other and a single one is a perfect passenger for these trips, so the book is centered on one set of twins. as one goes off and travels through space.This book I would say is for Heinlein fans only, of which I am one.
The review above pretty much says it all. This books has been reprinted time and time again for over fifty years. It is one of Heinlein's better juveniles.I recommend Heinlein's "juveniles" for every sf reader--I personally feel they represent some of his best work. They can be read and enjoyed by adults; except for the age of the main characters, this books is as good as many adult novels published today.
I haven't read this since it was new (written in 1956). It is still well written and holds up well. I was curious to see if I missed any discussion of the Special Theory of Relativity. Nope, just the General theory. It would have been easy to show both.I expect most readers here are familiar with it - torch ships go to the nearest stars at relativistic speeds with the protagonist and his twin brother (left on Earth) as one of the telepathic instantaneous communicators.
It likely isn't one of Heinlein's well known books.
Actually, it is likely one of his less known works.
Earth is overcrowded and they need new planets so that is their mission, to discover new planets for humanity.
However, the ship encounters the issue of time going slowly for earth people and fast for the ship people.
(Einstein's relativity playing havoc with the characters.) Soon Tom and Pat cannot link with each other.
Could Tom link up with his niece, Molly?
It is Heinlein writing one of his "juveniles" and wonderful stuff.
It might be more of a 3.5 for Heinlein.
Marvelous early Heinlein published in the 50s but still highly readable and relevant today (with a few period-appropriate quips being the only downside).
This is brilliant even today with the wit and humor of the master at his best.
This story is about Interstellar exploration and the relativity problems associated with that as people leave Earth, travel at near light speed, and time slows down, their families on Earth age dramatically.
Its fascinating that, withholding all the modern sci-fi I've read and seen, that this story would entertain.
A very early pioneering work that founded many staple ideas in sci-fi.
#10 in the Heinlein juveniles series during the 1950’s published for the young adult market.Travel to other planets is a reality, and with overpopulation stretching the resources of Earth, a progam is developed to explore space for new worlds to populate. The Long Range Foundation establishes a program to develop human telepathy to communicate between exploring ships and Earth. Identical twins Tom and Pat are enlisted with Tom going into space and Pat remaining home.
Very dated, but still entertaining if you take the male point of view with a grain of salt, and see it for what it is...one of the first space travel books from the 1950s. This was the first Heinlein I read when I was a kid.
An interesting and enjoyable read.
4.5 out of 5
Several pairs of twins were used by each ship to ensure a continuous communication link with Earth.
The journeys last for many years, but due to the relativity effects resulting from the extreme travel velocities of the torch ships members of the crew age more slowly than people age on Earth.
Therefore, the twins on board the featured ship in this story age about 4 years during their journey, while their siblings on Earth age about 70 years.
He also does a nice job with the science of the ship and space travel, without overburdening the reader.
The basic reason for writing this book seems to have been to introduce the idea of a 'long range foundation', which ignores the short term, and pumps resources into things that (probably) won't show results for decades or centuries.
The premise of the telepathic twins is interesting, but it's basically a McGuffin to allow Heinlein to send a juvenile (several, really) on a starfaring mission, Really, however, the mission is not really described.
One interesting point is the question of whether you must necessarily love those you're related to.
It's an interesting psychological observation that people tend to accuse others of what they believe to be true about themselves.
Bought this book at a discount awhile ago.
When I was a kid I read many RAH novels.
I usually bought these novels from B.
Anyhow, it's a pretty good story and if you liked any of RAH's juveniles you will enjoy this.
However, it is still a good story, but doesn't compare to my favorites that I have reread many times.
Space Cadet and Have Spacesuit Will Travel I remember to be my fav's and if you are picking up RAH for the 1st time, especially his Juvenile series, start with these.
One twin stays at home and the other is on board of a spaceship to explore new worlds.Characterization has never been Heinlein's strongest point and it shows here again but he is extremely good at writing believable adventure stories.
That's a big difference to Heinlein's later books where the protagonists cynically show off their superiority and bypass normal ways because they know the ropes.
The twins have strange relationships, not the deep emotional bound that I assumed they always have.
I also found it strange to tell someone straight into his face that you don't like him.
I felt the story was a bit choppy, but it was an interesting enough tale, so I hung on.
It was like he worked hard on some scenes and then slapped others together merely as glue.I originally rated this as a 3, but as I write these words, I realise a 2 - "it was OK" - is what I really think.
I won't drop Heinlein, but I will definitely aim for his more mature writing another time to give him one more chance.(view spoiler)[The chauvinism reached its peak for me at the end when Tom meets his great-great-great-niece (not sure I got all the greats right) and she immediately says she wants to marry him.
While it might be considered a juvenile, it's probably better suited to teenagers given some of the things that happen in the novel.The book is the journal of a boy who has a telepathic link to his twin brother.
The book makes good use of the "twin paradox" in which the one who stays home ages while the other is still young.
It is for this reason that I'd avoid sharing this book with younger readers.
There are definitely traumatic moments, so I'd say it's roughly for teenagers and maybe slightly younger (10-12).
Wikipedia tells us that the famous wrestler Virgil Riley Runnels jr changed his name to Dusty Rhodes at Gary Hart's suggestion based on Andy Griffith's character 'Lonesome Rhodes' in the movie 'A Face In The Crowd' from 1957.
Is it a coincidence that in 1956 a character named 'Dusty Rhodes' appeared in Heinlein's novel, Time For The Stars?
And he picked a great book to steal from: predating both Tau Zero and The Forever War, it also uses the time dilation concept as a substrate for the story.
But as much as I enjoyed these two more recent efforts, I preferred Time For The Stars.
It's amazing how abruptly RAH switched gears when he wrote Starship Troopers.
Most of the previous decade was spent writing young adult books.
After reading reviews, Time For The Stars seemed to be the YA favorite.
So I thought I would give it a read.
Most of the book was endless banter/chatter between the young protagonist twins.
And it was only a few short pages that described reptilian and amphibious aliens killing humans and destroying some equipment.
Most of todays young adults want killer zombies, interplanetary travel and ferocious aliens with lots of blood and guts strewn across the galaxy.
Don't waste your time.
