https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133914.The_Ways_of_White_Folks
It is time Langston Hughes’ reputation be salvaged.
What Hughes is, is a hugely talented writer, period.My previous encounters with Langston Hughes had been with his poetry, of which I’m a fan.
That's how powerful a writer Hughes is.This collection of short stories is a perfect introduction to Hughes’ work.
If you truly want to understand the objectification of Blacks, read this book.
I've read that Hughes was greatly influenced by D.
While these things may have influenced Hughes' writing in the 1920's, these stories come out of the painful experiences Hughes and blacks in general experienced in America at that time and all too sadly, today.
This book made me ache inside. Hughes is an excellent writer and his stories are like razor blades that draw fine little lines in your heart. You don't even realize you're bleeding until it's done.
This book is a collection of short stories of interactions of every day encounters of black people and white people.
The stories are humorous, sad, truthful, and at times you want to scream.
Langston Hughes writing style puts you the reader in the mist of the story.
A story of the bi-racial son of a planation owner.
The lyric writing of Langston Hughes will make you holler for more.
Quote:But, Arnie thought he wouldn't mind being poor in a land where it didn't matter what color you were.
"Yes, you would mind." Vivi said.
After reading this brilliant African-American fiction composed of numerous short stories, I was compelled to reflect on a piece of American history that was not honorable, in regards to the morale of a society. I appreciated the blunt honesty that Langston portrayed within his work in the series of short stories. He presented stories that contained content that has been echoed within Black families for decades. I am grateful for the major progress in this country and hope that we continue to make strides toward a more unified and peaceful nation.
How rare that everyone reading can relate to every story in a collection?
Do you know the white family who "adopts" an African-American child out of love, but out of pity, and raises a child who can't fit it in any world?
My entire paragraph sounds unbelievably cliche, but Hughes' stories melt into the reality that is America.I read these stories as being judgmental towards "white folks," but maybe I'm biased.
"No," said Oceola simply.
. Listen!
. How sad and gay it is.
Blue and happy -- laughing and crying.
. How white like you and black like me.
. How much like a man.
. And how much like a woman.
. Warm as Pete's mouth.
. These are the blues.
. I'm playing." I love that line.
What a beautifully written, powerful and sad book.
I think I shall remember it for a long time.I'll write a full review this weekend.
I found this golden nugget in my neighbors attic library and HAD to ask if I could borrow it! Upon seeing the excitement in my eyes, she smiled and said to use it as long at I'd like. I started this evening saying I'd only read a bit, and now I'm nearly half done!
This collection of stories explores themes of race and race relations in the early twentieth century.
The issues addressed in the collection will ring familiar to people schooled in the racial history of the United States prior to the Civil Rights Era. Consequently, the character types, plots, and outcomes are fairly predictable.
The themes addressed in the stories include segregation (de facto and de jure), vigilantism and social control, primitivism, passing, and sexual taboos and transgressions.
In a few of the stories, he artfully contrasts the racial dynamics in the United States with Europe to show that the absence of a color line helped foster healthier personal and familial relationships.
I do not recommend finishing this book while sitting on the bus at the end of a work day, particularly while the cutest little black boy sits laughing on his father's lap in a seat across from you.
This book took me longer than I expected to finish.
Often, after a story, I would have to put it down and leave it for a few days.
It just isn't possible to move into the next tragic tale, like the nightly news.
Happy endings were few.
Thank you for this book, Langston Hughes, and fuck you all who made these stories too real.
Excellent stories with heart that really resonated how life used to be for black folks - and still is.
These stories are the culmination of the interaction between whites and Negroes, in the city, on the farm, in richness and poverty.
The down south slave dialect is difficult to write well, but Hughes manages it with as much skill as the snooty rich whites of Boston.
He created stories of pathetic white people and downtrodden black.
I like to believe that we, as an American society have grown away from lynchings, labels and that horrid n-word that I refuse to write, even though Hughes used it often.
(FROM JACKET)Perhaps more than any other writer, Langston Hughes made the white America of the 1920s and '30s aware of the black culture thriving in its midst.
Like his most famous poems, Hughes's stories are messages from that other America, sharply etched vignettes of its daily life, cruelly accurate portrayals of black people colliding-sometimes humorously, more often tragically-with whites.
Here is the ailing black musician who comes home from Europe to die in his small town-only to die more quickly and brutally than he had imagined.

This short story collection runs deep and Hughes' lyrical, powerful writing style shines often. All the stories are tragic or dark in some way because this collection revolves around the discrepancies, prejudices, inequalities, and culture conflicts between white and black communities or individuals in the earlier twentieth century. I found "Cora Unashamed" and "Mother and Child" to be so well-crafted that I could hear the narrator's or characters' voices in my head.
It's hard not to love every bit of Langston Hughes's contribution to American letters. Although best know as a poet, I greatly admire his prose too. Two other prose works of his to check out are two of my favorite works of American memoir: "The Big Sea" and "I Wonder as I Wander."
Why did I wait so long to read Langston Hughes? These short stories speak to us today - carefully observed, beautifully written. An education.
This book just ripped me open and remade me. Hughes is a genius, sees straight through to the souls of us all. It’s a gripping, incredibly insightful book that manages to be applicable decades and decades later.
This man, Roy, gets lynched for talking to a white woman, who he knew, since he played music for her a her music students at the local school.
Hughes interjects immediately after the description of the black man and the white woman talking, the angry words and/or thoughts of the angry mob.
That is what a conversation escalated to and while the mob is beating him, Hughes writes, "He knew he would never get home to his mother now...Some one spat in his face.
We have all heard a story like this before, but Hughes writes it in such a way that it makes you think about how all the people involved might be feeling.
An outstandingcollection of brilliant, emotionally engaging, poignant short stories about black americans in approximately the 1920's (when the stories were written).
The common themes are the relationships between blacks and whites.
Many of the stories are about relationships between blacks and white (parents-children, employees, romantic love, and mixed race children).
There are also a couple stories poking fun at whites who view blacks indulgently as more genuine or more naturally primitive than whites.
Can bring tears to the eyes.Cora Unashamed.
Cora is twice bereft as a mother.
Two other stories in the collection have similar themes.Red-headed baby.
A son's letter to his mother.
Not a weak story in the volume.
The review said that this was Hughes's only book of prose, and had he continued to write like this, he would have been more popular or more well remembered.
Reading between the lines, I translated that as "had he written more like white people, he would have been better."However, being a 'white people', I knew that I would enjoy the book and bought it.
I began reading it as soon as it arrived and was not disappointed.
I knew the ending of the story about the violinist before the second paragraph, but it still drew me in.
This book should be required reading for everyone.
After finishing Langston Hughes' collection of stories, "The Ways of White Folks," I'm now convinced that Hughes is one of the most under-recognized fiction-talents of the 20th century.
Whatever the establishment hangups are for digging deeper into Hughes' fiction writing, it is time to recognize the timeless poignancy of Langston's non-poetry work.
His striking, nuanced depictions of racial tensions in communities all around the United States approach the dexterity and efficiency of Flannery O'Connor's, short stories.
With the resurgence of racial tensions in the early twenty-first century, Hughes' fiction is sure to be an influence on a new generation of novelists and short story writers.
However, given the state of the US with the killings and media overdose of the the current presidential election, this book was really difficult for me to absorb at this time.
I did complete it as it was a Turning Pages Book Club selection (thanks Dina - I know you didn't know when you selected it) but it was quite challenging.
The stories reflect things happening throughout the history of the US and the sad part is that nothing has changed AT ALL (except now we see the injustice on social media).
The stories are poignant and insightful.
I really enjoyed reading this. Well, maybe enjoyed is the wrong word, because it's so Goddamn cruel. Most of these stories read like a Roald Dahl adult short story because they're so biting and cynical. Tale after tale of Black suffering, with a clever and cruel twist on each one. It's a little different from the Langston Hughes I learned about in school, the MLK-ified version, and it's jarring because the book is so bitter and hateful, and rightly so. It's deeply flawed and anguished and angry writing and it made me very flawed and anguished and angry too.
Some of this Langston Hughes short story collection is quietly, intermittently funny, some of it pointedly uncomfortably funny, some of it sly more than funny and some of it not funny at all. But whether he's writing wicked satire ("Slave on the Block," "Rejuvenation Through Joy"), poignant character portraits ("Cora Unashamed," "Little Dog") or something more mythic and real ("Father and Son"), the great black/white divide is in the back of Hughes' mind and therefore in the front of ours.
Langston at his finest hour!
Stories of Difficult Black And White RelationsIn 1934, the African American poet Langston Hughes (1902 -- 1967) published his first collection of short stories, "The Ways of White Folks", all of which have as a theme the strong force of racial prejudice.
They took you away from here in the Springtime of your life, and now you'se gone, gone, gone!" Cora lives the rest of her life alone, with her family on the outskirts of the town.Two of the stories in the collection, "Home" and "The Blues I'm Playing" center upon black Americans with a deep involvement in both classical music and in jazz and blues.
After reading Langston Hughes collection “The Ways of White Folk” and the story “Home” however, I now have a fourth.
In truth, all of these stories about interactions between whites and blacks are incredible in their own right.
The final sentence is as haunting and shocking as anything I’ve read.“And when the white folks left his brown body, stark naked, strung from a tree at the edge of town, it hung there all night, like a violin for the wind to play.” (hide spoiler)] This is a brutal collection to read at times, leaving you waiting for the inevitable pain waiting at the end, simple hoping that at the very least no blood will be shed.
As great short stories should do, these ones draw you in very quickly. The common thread to the stories is white racism. The stories often combine wit and wry insight with sometimes shocking brutality. They’re fine beautifully written stories which serve as social record records which still resonate profoundly now.
It is always hard to rate short stories. Taking the good and the bad,then averaging out the best is a strategic way to do it.I will say that the best story was Home and Passing. The rest did not stand out significantly,it was mainly dense and not memorable.Despite my fickle feelings towards the book,it was pivotal to read about Slavery and how Blacks were inferior to Whites. Hard to believe that racism still exists,just subtle and not overt. Solid three star book,plan to read more material by Hughes.
Based on my research knowledge of American History in the era of the 1920s and 1030s, this book contains stories, lifestyles, social happenings that parallel 'Keeping up with the Jones' whether good or bad, fiction or not. Everything that I have seen in my shorter lifetime, and still am able to see today without blinders on, no matter what my personal beliefs may be. This is a well written book, however.
