https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9998.The_Woman_in_the_Dunes
This book is horrifically claustrophobic and eerie.How much of our lives consist of frantically trying to stay afloat?
Life can be as fruitless as a man trapped under sand dunes digging to live...or living to dig.
Do we work to live or live to work?
If you think being held hostage in sand is fantastical, what do you think your life is, anyway?
This book wears you down.
The sand is everywhere.
You can't see the horizon through the grains scratching the insides of your eyelids.There's a man and sand.
A lot of sand.
Αυτό το ύπουλο ορυκτό με διάμετρο 1/8 του χιλιοστού (κατα μέσο όρο) ανά κόκκο, γεννιέται μέσα απο το χώμα και σαν κάτι ζωντανό έρπει εισχωρώντας παντού, είναι το «κελί» της ζωής μας.
Γνωρίζοντας αρχικά ότι ο ήρωας μας είναι αγνοούμενος και μετά απο επτά χρόνια κηρρύσεται επισήμως άφαντος-νεκρός, ακολουθούμε την πορεία του συγγραφέα σε πραγματικό χρόνο που μας οδηγεί σε ένα χωριό.
Τα λιγοστά σπίτια είναι θαμμένα μέσα στη γη πνιγμένα απο την άμμο που πρέπει κάθε βράδυ να την φτυαρίζουν δίνοντας τιτάνιο αγώνα ώστε να μην πνίξει τα πάντα στον άνυδρο βυθό της.
Ήτα σαν να ’βλεπε τα πάντα μέσα από ένα τέτοιο χαρτί, που το είχε σηκώσει στο φως.
It won the 1962 Yomiuri Prize for literature, and an English translation and a film adaptation appeared in 1964.In 1955, Jumpei Niki, a school teacher from Tokyo, visits a fishing village to collect insects.
After missing the last bus, he is led, by the villagers, in an act of apparent hospitality, to a house in the dunes that can be reached only by rope ladder.
The next morning the ladder is gone and he finds he is expected to keep the house clear of sand with the woman living there, with whom he is also to produce children.
When we mix surrealistic Kafkaesque climate with existential questions about sense of human being then we get something like  The woman in the dunes.
Tale about a man obsessed or maybe possessed with sand who during the trip to the sea is trapped in the dunes in a cave inhabited by a lonely woman.
Initially desperately tries to escape but the magnetic strength of the woman, her desperate fight with sand makes that what previously seemed to be a trap now becomes a sense of his life.
It's like  The Trial  by Kafka.
Kōbō Abe - Image from Vice.com This is a kafkaesque story of an entomologist who travels to a remote village in search of a new species of beetle.
The village is beset by relentless sand.
Their homes have already been buried so deep that it takes full time effort by residents to remove incoming sand from the holes in which their houses are now nearly buried to keep from being destroyed.
There is much detail here about sand, but the true intent here is an examination of life.
So, usually, ordinary living things are unable to endure life in it.The landscape of the dunes which Abe describes, of wood-rotted boxed dwellings built at the bottom of shifting sand hills, could not realistically exist, marking the novel as a science fiction/ fantasy thriller.
In The Woman in the Dunes, Abe presents the grotesque sadness borne from a man's oppressive, fruitless daily life; the image of a degraded human being who is isolated, trapped in the monotony of routine, unable to escape a meaningless existence.
Biz edebiyat tarihinde böcekleşen, kendini böcek gibi hisseden, böcek olmak isteyen ya da iktidarın gözünde böcek kadar değeri olmayan bir sürü karakter görmüştük, Kobo Abe ise bizi işin en başına böcekleşmenin hikayesine götürüyor ve bunu mükemmel bir kurgu ile tamamlıyor.Ve final; 6 aylık kuyu hapsinden sonra kadını hastaneye götürmek için sarkıtılan merdivenin ucunda yalnız görürüz kahramanımızı.

I've got several more in my queue.Haruki Murakami, Kobo Abe, and Koushun Takami are very different authors (just as Charles Dickens and George Eliot are very different authors), but Japanese novels all have a very different feel from Western novels.
Our unfortunate schoolteacher doesn't think anything is odd or sinister about this until he has lowered himself into the trap.The rest of the book is really more about Niki Jumpei's thoughts and experiences, and of course, sand.
I definitely recommend it for anyone who is interested in sampling Japanese literature.Oh, but speaking of surreal: come on, all your Goodreaders who labeled this "magical realism"!
While reading this book my thoughts were constantly racing towards Camus’s ‘The Myth of Sisyphus”  "From the moment absurdity is recognized, it becomes a passion, the most harrowing of all." Premises of hope, alienation and irrationality reeking from every printed word induced me into inferring Kobo Abe being the Japanese Camus. The protagonist Junpei Niki illustrates traits of Sisyphean persona; pursuing meaningless task of digging buckets of sand from the pit only to see it fill up again.Junpe
The sandpit encloses a widow’s house who manipulates Junpei to help her clear the sand or her house may collapse with its graveness.Influenced on the lines of Sartre’s ‘No Exit’; conveys existence of a “hell hole” that life somehow seems to open when stagnated survival justifies adaptation.
Abe speaks about adapting without being adamant on a fixed position to survive the competition.
Junpei’s return to the sand dune after having a successful escape and garnered sympathy towards the widow and villagers, exhibit signs of the Stockholm syndrome.
Poor entomologist, a man who finds pleasure in the discovery of new insects, a man who has studied sand, now wanders into this snow pit on his vacation.
Poor clueless vacationer who is tricked into spending the night in the home of a mysterious woman.Now he knows: "If life were made up only of important things, it really would be a dangerous house of glass, scarcely to be handled carelessly.
At the center of his bewilderment and anger is the mysterious woman he has been forced to live with.
رواية مختلفة وفكرة مميزة كتبها كوبو آبي سنة 1962الإنسان عندما يصبح مجرد جسد لا رأي له في حياته, ولا 
داستان مردی که توی کلبهای شنی گیر میافته و درصورتی که خونه رو شنروبی نکنه کشته میشه. درواقع مرد رو مجبور به موندن توی خونه کردن. حالا این مرد یا باید فرار کنه، یا باید به این سرنوشت تن بده(برای از بین نرفتن کیف و حالِ خوندن کتاب، خیلی خیلی داستان و المانهاش رو خلاصه کردم)مساله اینجاست که این شنروبی و این کارهای روزمره، استعارهای از اعمال روتین انسان در زندگیه. درواقع شبیهترین چیز به این کتاب، افسانه سیزیف هست. همون سیزیفی که هر روز باید سنگی رو به بالای کوه میغلطوند و سنگ باز به پایینِ کوه سر می
حالا این مرد یا باید فرار کنه، یا باید به این سرنوشت تن بده(برای از بین نرفتن کیف و حالِ خوندن کتاب، خیلی خیلی داستان و المان‌هاش رو خلاصه کردم)مساله اینجاست که این شن‌روبی و این‌ کارهای روزمره، استعاره‌ای از اعمال روتین انسان در زندگیه.
درواقع حلقه‌های زیادی برای زندگی وجود داره و انسان نهایتن می‌تونه از این حلقه به اون حلقه پرش کنه اما چیزی که اجتناب‌ناپذیره روتین بودن و غیرانتخابی بودنِ زندگیه.
مثل لذت‌های زندگی که می‌تونه مارو در عین اجتناب‌ناپذیری زندگی تسلی بده.حرف این کتاب، حرف کامو توی کتاب افسانه سیزیف هست.
It's only years later do I discover that Japan is possibly one of the most prolific in terms of sexual, and sensual i.e. as in good - Nobel good, not trashy sexy.It's something of a contradiction given the very formal and discreet nature of Japanese culture.
"An unrequited love affair," was the response from a Japanese girl (not my class, a friend's ESL).
It is strange how writers can reflect the psychology of a country, the whole often un-specified in dialogue, or else restricted to a political frame.Hence my long standing interest in Japanese writers.
It was the kind of quasi-homoerotic, pseudo-intellectual buddy activity which has since become the staple of our relationship.The first book he recommended was "Woman in the Dunes".
I fell asleep reading it at least three times.
I thought he looked disappointed, and that I had failed him.When I finished the book, I decided to man-up and tell him what I really felt.
"I couldn't stand this book," I said.
Instead, he laughed, and said, "Yeah, I really hate this book, too.
I just made you read it to fuck with you."
فوق العاده بود ! فقط همین رو میتونم بگم .. یک رمان کافکایی که با فلسفه ی کامو و اگزیستانسیالیسم سارتر مخلوط شده و در دل خودش آنیما و آنیموس یونگ رو هم جا داده بود .. یک رمان پست مدرن تمام عیار !میخواستم نقدی برای این کتاب بنویسم اما چند نقد خوب در وب پیدا کردم که لینکشون رو اینجا میزارم.. در صورت علاقه مطالعه کنیدزن در ریگ روان کوبو آبهنقد روان شناختی داستان «زن در ریگ روان»
با خواندنِ این داستان اولین چیزی که به ذهنم رسید زندگی کنونی ما ایرانیان بود...
و انسان هایِ گرفتار در گودال های شنی رو دختران و پسران سرزمین پاک ایران زمین دیدم...
ما به بهانۀ چه رفتیم؟ چه به روزِ سرزمینِ ما آوردن؟ آیا ما همان مردم همیشه شاد در زمانِ بهرام گور و انوشیروان بزرگ هستیم؟ آیا ما همان ایرانیانی هستیم که بزرگترین مورخان جهان هم نتوانستن تعداد دقیق فستیوال ها و جشن هایِ ملی مارو اعلام کنن...
همان جشن هایی که تعداد آن رو بیشتر از سوراخ های غربال یا اَلَک میدونستن...
چراکه روان بودنِ شن بهتر میتونه این زندگی و تلاش رو نشون بده...
کتاب خوبی بود، از خیلی جهات شبیه سیزیف کامو بود، خیلی از توصیف ها و تصویر سازی های متن رو نمی تونستم بفهمم و البته خیلی از جاها هم به ضرورت تجمه سانسور شده بود به نظرمدر نتیجه میریم که آماده بشیم برای دیدن فیلمش
زن در ریگ روان اثر عمیقی است. یک دست است و این یک دست بودن در فرم و محتوا کار را بسیار قوی کرده. از جنبه های فنی و نوشتن که بگذریم، محتوای اگزیستانسیالیستی کار بدون افت، بدون اینکه به داستان بودن کار لطمه بزند راه خودش را می رود و برای خواننده "ساده نگر" داستان را فدای محتوا نمی کند. کتاب سه بخش دارد. سه بخش که اگر بهتر نگاه کنیم متناظر تز، آنتی تز و سنتز هستند. تز امید و رهایی از بیهودگی، آنتی تز سیزیف و سنتز زندگی.
حقیقتا کتاب خوبی بود.اگر یک مقداری از دایرهی مرد-شن-زن-گریز خارج میشد، و در عین حال چفت و بست داستان را هم رعایت میکرد، اثر تبدیل به یک شاهکار ادبی میشد. منظور اصلی اینکه هنرمند یک مقداری مقهور هنرِ خودش شده بود، و این طبعا درست نیست. از ترجمه بوی شتابزدگی و عدم وسواس بلند میشد. طرح داستانیِ بسیار قدرتمند و بیبروبرگرد قابل دفاعی داشت.
حقیقتا کتاب خوبی بود.اگر یک مقداری از دایره‌ی مرد-شن-زن-گریز خارج می‌شد، و در عین حال چفت و بست داستان را هم رعایت می‌کرد، اثر تبدیل به یک شاهکار ادبی می‌شد. منظور اصلی این‌که هنرمند یک مقداری مقهور هنرِ خودش شده بود، و این طبعا درست نیست. از ترجمه بوی شتاب‌زدگی و عدم وسواس بلند می‌شد. طرح داستانیِ بسیار قدرتمند و بی‌برو‌برگرد قابل دفاعی داشت.
لعنتی! لعنتی پنج ستاره ای...فقط گند زدم با پی دی اف خوندنش!حتما بخونید. فقط ترجیحا کاغذی.
The Premise and the Story line: A man is taken a prisoner by a village which is near the sea front.
The man obviously wants an escape from such a slave-like situation.Such a simple story line and I feel it could have been done excellently done in a short story or a novella.
The novel is bit too lengthy and the reader feels suffocated inside the sandpit.
A powerful message stated very powerfully in words and through the images (shoveling sand).Then there is the theme of looking everything as a whole.
(view spoiler)[Bir adam var.
Ve bu köyde hava kararana kadar Kaplan sineğinin peşinde dolanıyor ve akşam üstü köylülerden geceyi geçirmek için bir yer istiyor.Köyden bahsetmek gerekirse köy deniz kenarında fakir mi fakir, deniz kenarında olmasına ragmen balıkçılık bile yapılamayan ve en önemli özelliği kumlarla kaplı olması olan allahın unuttuğu bir köy.
Çok kısa bir sure içinde anlıyoruz ki o kum çukurunda ki evden çıkmanın imkanı yok.Adam esir alındığını anlıyor.
Adam kaçmak için herşeyi deniyor.
Ya adam bütün hayatı anlatmış.
Çok dolu kitap çok.Yavaş yavaş okumak lazım.
Hatta hayatta sadece bir kaç kitap için söyledim (Mesela "Körleşme"), Kumların Kadını içinde söyleyeceğim; bir daha okumak lazım.
Δεδομένου πως πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που κοσμεί τις περισσότερες λίστες Απαραίτητων, Αριστουργημάτων κ.ο.κ.
Όλα τα στοιχεία που προανήγγειλαν την αναγνωστική… ηδονή ήταν παρόντα: Το έντονο καφκικό στοιχείο, η ιαπωνική ελλειπτικότητα, ο "καλπάζων" μοντερνισμός, ο συμβολισμός στα όρια της φαντασμαγορίας.
Και όμως, τα επιμέρους στοιχεία δεν ήταν αρκετά -σ' εμένα τουλάχιστον- να δημιουργήσουν την ευκταία σύνδεση με το κείμενο.
Δεν κατόρθωσα να μεθέξω, όχι διότι το κείμενο ήταν δύσπεπτο ή βαρετό (σίγουρα δεν περιμένεις από ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο παρά την ελάχιστη δυνατή δράση και μια αυτιστική ανάπτυξη του θέματος, κινούμενη βουστροφηδόν), αλλά διότι όλα αυτά δεν με καθήλωσαν ως ανέμενα.
There are these horrifying insects called antlions that dig holes and bury themselves at the bottom of them, just their jaws sticking out of the sand, and wait for ants to fall in so they can trap and devour them.
...The man is trapped in a class war - or caste war - unacknowledged by society at large.We're talking about sex too, and Jumpei's attitude toward it is baffling.
Abe never actually says "antlion," btw, that's my own extrapolation.Obviously it's all very Kafka, and he would have loved this book (and maybe been a little jealous of Abe's ability to do both allegory and plot, which Kafka can only pull off in his short stories).
دیگه بعد از اون شن رو حس می کنی.یکی از جالب ترین موقعیت هایی بوده که یه نویسنده می تونه خلق کنه و درش رنج و تنهایی آدما رو نشون بده.
دردناک ترین چیز همین خو کردن به زیر سلطه بودنه همین تسلیم جبر شدنه و بدتر از اون اینه که در راستای کمک به این جبر و سلطه تبدیل به نوکر بی جیره و مواجبش بشی و بخوای بقیه رو بیاری اسیر کنی برای حفظ این چیز.بدون شک می تونم بگم این کتاب و موضوعش هیچ وقت از ذهنتون بیرون نمی ره.
به شدت تاثیر گذار بود این کتاب و این داستان؛ مبهوتم کرد با پایانش
Sand sucks. The sand in this novel is so oppressive, invasive, and omnipresent, that after finishing the book, I felt like I needed to take a shower. Maybe two.  "His words were absorbed by the sand and blown by the wind, and there was no way of knowing how far they reached."  The book is the basis of one of my favorite Japanese movies, and it's story is so eccentric, I wanted to see how it worked as a novel. It's the tale of a man, who disappeared and was declared dead after he journeyed on his
The sand in this novel is so oppressive, invasive, and omnipresent, that after finishing the book, I felt like I needed to take a shower.
The book is the basis of one of my favorite Japanese movies, and it's story is so eccentric, I wanted to see how it worked as a novel.
It's the tale of a man, who disappeared and was declared dead after he journeyed on his own to study some bugs at an isolated beach town, and found himself in a mysterious woman's house at the bottom of a sand pit.
The novel details what happens to this man at the bottom of that hole.
Japon Edebiyatı, ülkemiz okurlarının son zamanlara kadar ilgisini çekmeyen fakat bünyesinde son derece güçlü kalemleri barındıran bir edebiyat.
Cinsel iştiha da son derece başarılı anlatılmış.Zaten sürekli olarak artan bir libido duygusunun; zührevi hastalık korkusuyla bastırılışını kitap boyunca hissediyoruz.
Kumların altında ise saf libido, saf pişmanlık, saf korku, saf yalnızlık var.Kendine özgü ve aynı zamanda sürükleyici bir konuya da sahip olan kitabın gerilimi son bölümüne kadar hat safhada.
Edebi yönü her ne kadar fazla derin olmasa da; bunu söz sanatlarının yetersiz kalması ve duyusal tasvirler dışındaki doğa anlatımlarının kafamızda yeterince canlanmaması ile açıklayabilirim; kitabın okunmaya değer bir kitap olduğu açık.M.B.
If life were made up only of important things, it really would be a dangerous house of glass, scarcely to be handled carelessly. But everyday life was exactly like the headlines. And so everybody, knowing the meaninglessness of existence, sets the center of his compass at his own home. My experience in japanese literature begins and ends with Haruki Murakami whose literature isn't so much japanese. Or so they say those who know one or two things about the matter. So technically, this is my firs
So technically, this is my first.The allegories in Kobo Abe's story are more or less obvious but that doesn't make them any less impressive or deep.
The home of a widowed woman whose life is dedicated to shovelling sand for the common good of the village.
Like I said, a few of the allegories may be obvious but, for me, they're what makes this novel great.
They make The Woman in the Dunes what it really is in its basis: an existential novel and a commentary on the modern way of life and the social structures that define our lives.
Hem konusu, hem işleyiş biçimi, hem de karakterlerin özgünlüğünden ve inandırıcılığından dolayı çok çok başarılı bir roman. Ve kendisini birçok farklı okumaya açacak bir roman gibi duruyor. Aynı zamanda kendinize dönmenizi sağlayacak bir roman. Bir de bu K. , Joseph tarzı izole kafkaesk bireyler üzerine tekrar düşünmeyi sağlayabilir. Kafkaesk olup sürükleyici olmayı başaran nadide bir kitap aynı zamanda....
The Woman in the Dunes is a bleak novel about the human plight and the monotony of existence. The Woman in the Dunes is also about sand.
A very claustrophobic novel about a man who comes imprisoned in a sand pit in the dunes with a unknown woman. His task is to shovel sand away each day to protect the nearby village. A tantalising job leading nowhere. Although the place of action and the action itself is confined, the story is gripping. I couldn't stop reading, wanting to know if he could escape ultimately... It reads like a thriller.Also The author somehow succeeds in varying the limited handlings and make the story also read like a interesting drama.
His attempts at climbing out of the pit are futile, and the woman tells him that no one has successfully escaped from the pit; Jumpei realizes with horror that he's been trapped by the villagers to be her helper, and that they don't intend to let him out.In Abe's novel, sand is everywhere - it constantly drips down on everything, and is a constant threat to the safety of the entire settlement.
Sand is like an oppressive regime - surrounding the woman completely from all sides, taking away all of her hopes and desires that she might once have had.Niki Jumpei is also an interesting character, and elements of his personality make him not entirely sympathetic: he can be complained to the mythical Sisyphus, condemned to forever repeat the same, unending task.
A novel of erosion - erosion of resolve, erosion of morality, erosion of sanity. Delightfully surreal.
Then again, the idea of a parable is to keep the story and writing simple in order to clearly relay your message.Still, lads and ladies, I was mighty bored.
By the time I realized that, I was moderately invested in the story, and the book is short, so why not finish?So what's the message here?
The message becomes clear toward the end, but I'm not someone who participates in the Daily Grind, so reading this was rather like the author preaching to the choir.
I guess you could not read it...In summation: Boring, as only simply simple things can be.
Somehow, the entire novel's storyline fits unhurriedly into the film's two hours, with the only omissions being the protagonist's introspections into the natures of sand and sex.
In both cases, he's the protagonist, but here we're definitely more trapped in his perspective, right or wrong, which casts the women unavoidably as antagonist.
Because of the sort of reader hat I am, I still found myself wondering about her life beyond the protagonist's considerations, but the novel's gender-politic framing is a little less open and ambiguous.Anyway, the book is good and I need to keep reading Abe, but the film is beautiful.
"زندگی چیزی نیست که آدم بتواند بفهمد"فضای تلخ و سیاهی داره داستان...
شن چیزی نیست ولی همه چیزه...
شن هرچیزیه توی این زندگی که ما باهاش درگیریم...
زندگی همون دهکده شن آلود و زرد و چرکینه...
انگار هر تلاشی برای رهایی ازش محکوم به شکسته، تازه اون آخر هم که راه رهایی جلوی پات باز شده دیگه رمقی برات نمیمونه که خودتو رها کنی، انقدر درگیر اون گودال عفن شدی که به خودت میقبولونی (!) که هنوز کارت با این خراب آباد تموم نشده و نمیشه و نمیتونی الان رهاش کنی...
شاید بعدا...سخت گرفتاریم* یه لنگی تو ترجمه داشت انگار** یه مقدار مشکل داشتم با تصور کردن فضای دهکده!
"It was like trying to build a house in the sea by brushing the water aside".Why are sand and time so often associated?
In short, then, sand came from fragmented rock and was an intermediate between clay and pebbles.
The size of the grains shows very little variation and follows a Gaussian distribution curve with a true mean of 1/8 mm." (13)Kobo Abe's novel reads like realistic fiction but takes the form of a parable.
The teacher is questioned, and when he provides enough anecdotal evidence of not being an "inspector" he's "allowed to stay" with a local village woman.In the house of this woman, sand is pervasive.
Başyapıt! Dünya yaratmak dedikleri bu kadar ustaca yapılır. Alttan altta verdiği mesajlar ve psikoloji çözümlemeleride cabası. Sonu ise karın ağrısı.

Տարօրինակ էր, ինչպես և ճապոնացի մյուս բոլոր հեղինակներից կարդացած գրքերը։ Ժամանակն արժեր, իրոք։ Ի՞նչ տվեց գիրքը, Աստված գիտի։ Ամեն դեպքում, ամենից շատ հավանածս հատվածը՝ — Լավ, մի մխիթարիր... Կյանքը այնպիսի բան չէ, որ միայն մխիթարվելով ապրեն... Այնտեղ ուրիշ կյանք է, այստեղ ուրիշ... Եվ միշտ թվում է, թե ուրիշ կյանքն ավելի քաղցր է... Ամենից գարշելին մտածելն է, թե ի՞նչ կլինի, եթե կյանքը հենց այսպես էլ անցնելու է գնա... Մի՞թե սա է կյանքը... Այդ բանը ոչ ոք չգիտե... Էհ, ավելի լավ է մինչև կոկորդ խրված լինես աշխատանքիդ մեջ և չմտածես այս ամենի մասին։— Լողանա՞նք...
البته در اصل امتيازي بين ٤ و ٥ به اين كتاب سنگين ميدم.فضا سازي آبه و توصيفات كتاب اونقدر خوبه كه حتي نواقص ترجمه از ترجمه (ژاپني به انگليسي به فارسي) هم نمي تونه خيلي دركت رو از فضاي سنگين شنزار مختل كنه. طوري كه در تمام وجودت، روي پوستت ، زير زبونت، لابلاي موهات،... همه جا سنگيني شن رو احساس ميكني.وصف حس خفقان ِ اسارت، با كورسوي اميد به رهايي... البته تا جايي كه هنوز درگير عادت نشدي...و در آخر اينكه روزمرگي دشمن اميد است...
کتاب های زیادی وجود دارند که از عناصر فلسفی در روند داستانی شون استفاده کرده اند، اما کتاب های کمی وجود دارند که بدون " حرف زدن " و تکرار حتا لغت به لغت حرف های یک فیلسوف توانسته باشند فقط با عناصر روایی و شخصیت و فضا پردازی آن تفکر فلسفی را نشان بدهند. این کتاب بدون شک برای به تصویر کشیدن اندیشه های اگزیستانسالیسم موفق بوده، بدون اینکه حتا نقل قول مستقیم یا ارجاعی به حرف های فیلسوفی داشته باشه، صرفا با فضا و شخصیت ها و روایت داستانی.
کتاب خیلی مهم تر و پیچیده تر و فلسفی تر از چیزی بود که انتظار داشتمو با این وجود ساده ترین حقیقتی رو که محض یادآوری محکم کوبوند تو صورتم این بود که آدما اگه بعد از تلاش برای فرار از بدبختی هاشون به نتیجه ای نرسیدند و دق مرگ هم نشدند بدون شک آروم و آهسته با بدبختی هاشون دوست میشن،بهش خو میگیرن و این قدر عادت میکنند که دیگه دلشون نمیخواد چیزی تغییر کنهاگه تو شرایط روحی مناسبی نیستین از خوندن کتاب صرفنظر کنین
