https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148123.Drawing_the_Human_Head
Perfect book.. ツWas useful for me a lot..^^
I would strongly recommend reading other books with different approaches to structure as well, though.
This book excels at teaching proportionality & simplifying the ratios of head & face structures, thereby making the problem of drawing various rotations of the face easier.
However, the author is strongly inclined towards the egg shape basic model, & while he makes it work in every rotation, as the more advanced parts of the book come along, the more fudging is required to stick with that egg model.
Even with these caveats, I would still recommend this book just for it’s simplification of the complexities of the face-head relationship.
Very technical and with excellent illustration, this is worth a look for portrait artists and character designers.
Wonderful book. I learned so much. It's got amazingly clear pictures and wonderful descriptions of everything you need to know about the human head. I had no questions by the end of the book. It tells you exactly how to draw the head, its features, and everything from different points of view. Highly recommended.
Amazing details and easy to understand. Personally the head turning mechanism devised by Hogarth is the most intuitive. Long before I read this book, I found myself devising a similar system for my heads turning, but Hogarth really hit home on this one. I love this book. It literally spills out the secrets of the face for you.. no other master mentions the fine details of each feature the way Hogarth does. I am excited to read his body book next.
I have learned so much about drawing the human head! I recommend this to anyone interested in this area.
I bought this book based on a recommendation from the brilliant and extremely talented artist Kate Thompson.
I not only had her as a guest teacher in a year long online class, and am currently enrolled in several of her e-courses, but have had the privilege of taking an informal class with her on drawing faces.
I'm happy to settle for mixed media influence in my face drawings.This book is well above my skill level, and it is definitely geared towards the more advanced artist, but it is also a a great reference tool to have in my library arsenal of books on faces and I recommend this to any artist who wishes to or is already drawing faces in their art.
This is one of my "go to reference" books on drawing the head.
The head can be complicated to draw but the guidelines and detailed drawings really break down everything into smaller pieces.
I draw from this book when I practice drawing the different angles of a turned or tilted head.
If you are striving to improve your portraits or just trying to learn something new, I believe this book would be a great resource to add to your collection.
I must admit, I have noticed an improvement in my drawings.
A must have for anyone aspiring to learn to draw the head.
A great book for learning how to draw the head in various positions and perspectives. Great instruction and formulas. I have actually seen a video of Hogarth doing these head drawings and he follows the instruction in here to a "tee".
Genial para corregir errores y para tomar decisiones certeras a la hora de dibujar una estructura para dibujar , pintar e incluso hacer escultura , - wonderful to correct mistakes and to make solid decisions to make drawings, paintings and also sculpture.
A good introduction to drawing the human head. Any student who has at least one year of drawing lessons should be able to benefit from the lessons in this book. The images will seem a bit retro at first glance, but the information is solid and useful to anyone who wants to learn to draw the head.
Good book, but very technical.
My gospel.
Very helpful for those who are interested in drawing the human face!!
Muy buen libro, me fue de mucha ayuda, te explica paso a paso y con ejercicios faciles. Muy recomendable para quienes desean mejorar su técnica.
A great book. I feel that learning to draw the perfect head first makes it much easier to draw all other imperfect heads. (but I am yet to learn to draw ordinary heads)
