https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97869.Our_Bodies_Ourselves_for_the_New_Century
Unplanned pregnancies follow birth control methods, and sexually transmitted diseases, appropriately.
Brief entries on counseling, adoption, abortion and preparing for the birth are the entire contents of this section.
The following section on abortion rights and methods covers twenty-nine full pages.
Rather inappropriately, the text finishes up with pregnancy and childbirth, followed by growing older, selected medical procedures and the politics of women’s health and medical care.
The text spurs on the politically motivated fight for “choice” (i.e. murder of an infant) through and through.
Abortion as birth control should not be so commonplace.
Making abortion rights a rallying cry of the feminist movement is a mistake.
This book taught me why I have hair in all these new places...*edit*Liz wrote this review for me last night while I was napping on the couch. I think she's trying to teach me some kind of lesson about leaving myself logged in to websites when I use her laptop.I've actually never read Our Bodies, Ourselves.Changing Bodies, Changing Lives was my jam in high school. That was the book that taught me why I had hair in new places. It failed to teach me, however, why I couldn't grow a mustache ... a mystery that has yet to be solved.
When I first encountered an earlier edition this book at the apartment of a friend I was staying at over break in 1984, it was earth-shattering. Birth control! Lesbians! but most importantly, reinforcement of my nascent notions that I as a woman had worth beyond my womb, and that I deserved to control my own body, my own fate. Now I'm looking to it for information on perimenopause and later-life health issues, and it is still an excellent resource.
Not exactly something you sit down and read cover to cover, but a vital source of information not just on sexulaity and reproductive rights, but on relationships, nutrition, pregnancy, mental health. All my nieces (current and to come) get a copy on turning 13.
I bought my first copy of Our Bodies, Ourselves when I was purchasing the books for my first semester's classes in college, and the then-new edition (ca.
Part comprehensive reference manual, part DIY health guide, part feminist manifesto (talk about the personal being political!), the book is loaded with useful information about women's physical, psychological, and emotional health issues, interwoven with personal anecdotes.
The writers encourage all women to learn about their bodies, to advocate for themselves, and to realize that they are entitled to health and happiness.The book pays particular attention to the health needs of lesbians, women of color, older women, women with disabilities and poor women.
When I was in grade school around 5th grade, I was befriended by a very nice woman. I was terribly sad and in turmoil but I couldn't talk about things with my mom or my brothers. I met her after befriending her cat. As she got to know me, she went out of her way to be kind. Among the things we talked about was my lack of knowledge about my own body. She shared this book with me. Thank you, Lynn wherever you are.
And close to the end, in a chapter on VAW, they list "sex work" as a form of violence, state that poverty and desperation "undeniable" drive women into the sex industry, and mention that women in porn are frequently raped/abused by bosses (directors).
So basically, OBOS admits that porn hurts women inside and outside the industry, but they refuse to take a stand on it overall because some women have masochistic fantasies.There are many things I could call this kind of thinking/approach; "feminist" isn't one of them.
I've had this book forever, or at least what feels like it: the mid-'80s, at least.
When I pulled it off the shelf today to add it here, I was greatly amused to discover, tucked in the back, the syllabus from my 1988 Human Sexuality class in college.
Although I am sure that there are more modern, more up-to-date, references on women's health out there, this title remains for me a (no pun intended) seminal work.
Because I discovered it when I was coming of age both sexually and emotionally, and because it is written from such an empowering perspective, it will always be a touchstone and my jumping-off point when looking for knowledge about health.
This book was my mother's subtle way of letting me know it was ok to ask her questions about my ovaries. And I certainly was obsessed with my ovaries back in the day.The best book for female sexuality and anatomy in print. Period. Our Bodies, Ourselves has a liberal agenda - and one that most feminists, or in the case of my generation, post-feminists, and resonates a political agenda that agrees with the morality and sexual health practices of modern women.Excellent.
This was a classic reference book among my young adult women friends in the 1970's. When my niece started college in the 1990's, I gave her the revised edition. What was so significant about the book in the 1970's is that it predates the Internet. Back then, the authors' provided current factual information on a range of women's health topics that was not readily available from "mom" or older sisters.
Best book on women's health that I've read. Great resource to have on hand.
Whether I agreed with the particular issue being yapped about or not didn't make much difference, I still found it yappy and unnecessary and felt that the book was marketed/titled in a misleading way.And the overall tone was very annoying, very smug, very self-righteous and also very "if you don't think just like this, you're the enemy." Come on, we're all adults here, aren't we past that yet?In some places it felt almost like a parody, like somebody sat down to satirize "a feminist manifesto on health" and this is what they came up with.
The personal stories scattered throughout the book didn't sound like real people.
I actually have no idea when I first read this book--a couple to a few years ago, I guess.
It's a great reference to go back to again and again, and the companion website (www.ourbodiesourselves.org) is rather helpful too.
While sometimes it can be a little distracting, I really love how the writers use the words "we" and "us" rather than "you." The language really helps to make the knowlege offered feel more like options to explore rather than a tirade or even just a nudge.
At no point while reading the book does it make me think, "Oh this is what THEY say I should do," or "This is what the EXPERT says, so I'll do that." It's pretty inclusive.
I only read the few chapters that I thought would be about fertility. It had textbook information but too much of a liberal slant and not enough information for those who do want children. No mention of the long- or short-term detrimental physical and emotional effects of abortion and birth control either. The general attitude was very selfish and focused only on the woman, not considering the effects her choices have on others.
Wow. My copy is nearly 20 years old. I feel ancient. An excellent owner's manual to the body.
Another book that faced being banned in the United States this year, 2017. I have a strong feeling, they will try again next year due to abortion topic.
This book was nearly shocking in its day. (Especially, I suspect to men.)Explicit. Suggesting women study themselves with a mirror. Telling women they could ask their doctors questions. Addressing sexuality.Now, of course, all this is available on Facebook or the Internet.

I have to admit that this is honestly one of the very first books I looked at/read when I was a child (yes, I was advanced).
And yes, even though my parents were educational, upfront and honest with me about not only the human body, but also "how babies are made", and sexuality, I still would look at this book.
This book covers so much information that some people may find hard to ask or embarrassing to find out about.
I urge ALL teenage girls and ALL women to please check this book out, and of course men as well!!
some of the people involved in that book came to our college in the 70's to talk with young women about their bodies.
They gave out plastic speculums and showed us how to look at our own cervixes (sp).
We even looked at one of theirs!
Crazy, heady stuff coming out of repression.
I can't imagine that happening on a college campus today.It was a useful handbook for my generation.
Many of our mothers taught us about menstruation by passing a book through the bathroom door after we just discovered blood coming out of some unfamiliar place with the advice "read this".
i have this one out from the library but i think i'm going to have to buy it and then it will stay forever on my currently reading shelf.
it's "progressive" and "liberal" and right now, i think that's wonderful.
there's a lot of info in it that felt like 9th grade health class, but there's also a lot of commentary on how our society affects women emotionally and spiritually as well as a lot of practical advice and de-mystification of helpful ways to get out from under that influence.
and what can it hurt to have a handy reference for all that stuff that i wasn't really listening to in health class?
Best reference book on the female body you can buy. It covers everything you can think of and does it with a strong feminist/pro-woman stance (including a refreshing take on birth control that points out that the Pill and other forms of hormonal birth control are NOT for everyone, which you don't often hear). I've found myself going back to it again and again for specific questions and issues, but also love just flipping through it.
This book isn't a traditonal book that you read from cover to cover (although if you did, you would be quite knowledgable!) I personally jumped around to find answers to questions that I could never really get straight answers for. It is quite useful
Interesting material that could be presented in an equally interesting manner but isn't.
I remember when this first came out, I was in college, and the women on my floor in the dorm just loved it, and so did I. It was amazing!!!
A classic! But one must read the ORIGINAL to get the full effect.
This was a bit radical at the time it came out. For years I would use it as a reference book. I only wish I had kept the original copy.
I needed a book that would safely help me journey through my changing body, to tame my shocking and yet delicious curiosity about intimacy and slowly guide me through a liberal feminist agenda that would, years later, shape me and help me stand my ground about my body and treat it with respect and love.
For example, in early editions, the section about how to prevent getting raped was all diagrams that showed martial arts moves, and came with the assumption that the most likely rapist was some stranger in a dark alley attacking you.
The last edition of the book I looked at focuses much more on date rape than stranger rape, for example, and the martial arts moves are gone.
I've been trying to gather different editions so that I can see how they change over the years, but I haven't read a single edition straight through, thus the lack of rating.
When this book came out, it was the first book that was widely available that told women about their reproductive body parts, addressed the miracle of menstruation, and spoke about women around the world who loved other women.All of this is of course ancient history to many.
It seemed like a miracle book, just as I was turning twenty-one.Whatever you choose to read (if you are female, or care a lot about someone who is), know that these were the pioneers in talking about the things that were, at the time, not spoken of in polite society.
