https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140225.The_Voyage_of_the_Dawn_Treader
(I didn't even know what forensics was when I started, just that I liked the book.)And there are things I like here.
The character of Reepicheep alone boosts this book by a full star.
It's nice to see a kid who is a total dick learn that there's consequences to his actions, then have a redemption arc in a kid's book.
But reading this book to my little boy made me confront a lot of the problems in the book.
Little things scattered throughout the books.
It's a good book, and I'm fond of it.
There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it. My absolute favorite quote in the entire book.In the latest installment, Lucy, Edmund and their cousin (Eustace) were having a bit of a tiff when they were suddenly pulled into a ship painting. (Apparently, you can get to Narnia just about any which way.)They land on Prince King Caspian's ship, where we meet almost an entirely new cast of characters setting sail to find the seven lost lords of Narnia.  “Do you mean to sa
My absolute favorite quote in the entire book.In the latest installment, Lucy, Edmund and their cousin (Eustace) were having a bit of a tiff when they were suddenly pulled into a ship painting.
Because we have fairy-tales in which there are round worlds and I have always loved them … Have you ever been to the parts where people walk about upside-down?" 
Along the way, they have oodles and oodles of adventures - anywhere from exploring mysteriously magical islands to Eustace accidentally turning into a dragon.
“Adventures are never fun while you're having them.”  The pace of this book was kind of slow for me, I spent seven days for the first half of this book. Then when the adventure comes, everything just gets better and better. I enjoyed how The Voyage of the Dawn Treader has The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe vibes, even though it reminded me of some parts of Pirates of the Caribbean.  “One of the most cowardly things ordinary people do is to shut their eyes to facts.”  The ideas were flowing,
The ideas were flowing, especially the mysterious feelings that got me chilled when the children are on the ship sailing to rescue and discover something they haven't seen before.
I can't imagine how Lewis created such imaginative images in his head and made people see it clearly.The ending was a bit sad, though.
This is the time for the last goodbye, and I knew even if there should be more, but it's enough in the story for the children to grow up and keep in their mind that this is the farewell.All in all, the chronicles of Narnia is worth reading when I have nothing to read.
The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (Chronicles of Narnia, #3), C.S. Lewis The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is a high fantasy novel for children by C.
He leads a sea voyage to the eastern end of the world, which the English siblings and their cousin Eustace Scrubb magically join soon after his ship Dawn Treader sets sail.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای نارنیا 3: کشتی سپیده پیما؛ نویسنده: کلاویو استیپلز لوئیس 1898 - 1963 ؛ مترجم: امید اقتداری زاده سال 1330 هجری خورشیدی؛ منوچهر کریم زاده زاده سال 1328 هجری خورشیدی، تهران؛ کتابهای کیمیا تهران خیابان ولی عصر، بالاتر از میدان ونک، شماره 1337؛ فکر میکنم، بیشتر ماها هریک سرزمین خصوصی، و پنهان برای خود داریم، سرزمین تخیل و رویا، اما به نظر حقیقی هم هست.

This is my fourth journey into the fantastical lands of Narnia, as I have chosen to read the series in chronological rather than publication order.This started rather poignantly for me, as the story opens with two of the Pevensie siblings returning to Narnia, with their cousin Eustace in tow.
I quickly forgot my reservations and was once again swept away by the wonderment and awe this series inspires, however.The children find themselves thrown from this world into the ocean that borders the Narnian lands.
(The kid who played Eustace was the only good actor in the film.
They got all wrong what were the good parts of the book.I know that Edmund admits to being a shit for his first Narnia visit.
I don't want it to be the bad part that I only pretended was good to get by.P.s. I don't wanna be all Comic Book Guy, but it annoyed the effing hell out of me that Eustace's mom announces in the end that "Jill Pole is here to see you!" Jill wasn't his friend before!
I'm still struggling to find out who the reading order of Narnia is.
At least, I don't there was any missing detail from the book, so that must be a good thing.As to why I gave this 3 stars is because I found it less adventurous than the first one, I felt this one was a bit rushed and yes that's the way children's books usually are but it was a bit too much for me.
I loved the characters, although some of the characters of the first book were missing, but we had a new one on the children side, and several new ones on the world of Narnia.A journey in the sea on a ship named Dawn Treader.
Time for a Christmassy reread :)Review later
I read this as a child. The end of this book with it's end of the earth myth expanded my mind back then. I really enjoyed Reepicheep. He was unexpected. The two older children- Peter and Susan were not in this one and I thought that was sad, but it still works out. This is a good series and a quick read.
Such a rich fantasy adventure full of unforgettable episodes - a boy-dragon, a Midas pool, invisible enemies, little Sea people, a fearless mouse, an enchanted table, the island where dreams come true and more. And above all Aslan. Truly a pleasure to read to my young children.The most unforgettable scene in this (and so worth remembering) is when Lucy magically overhears her friend gossiping about her and how that irrevocably changes their relationship - a thought-provoking reminder of the effects of gossip.
My BFF thinks this book is boring ... but I disagree. I really love it. All of the little islands they visit hold an amazing story. I just can't believe the movie wrecked this beautiful adventure so!~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
I am kinda sad they won't be in the Silver Chair or the Horse and His Boy :/  (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Okay, so at the end of this book Aslan said that Lucy and Edmund wouldn't come back to Narnia..I was so sad at first, but I'm pretty sure I heard they would come back in the last book??
I'm confused lol but it's ok...I guess I'll just find out after I read them XD (hide spoiler)](Sorry if the gifs annoy you guys, but I always enjoy seeing them on people's reviews or looking back on my own :P lol)Oh and if you are still reading this far lol xD my favorite quote from the book was this:"It isn't Narnia, you know," sobbed Lucy.
Pero rápidamente olvidé mis reservas y una vez más quedé arrastrada por la admiración y asombro que inspira esta serie, sin embargo.Adoro explorar cada vez más de este mundo fantástico.
Es que leer una serie de cuentos cortos conectados, ya que cada isla en la que aterrizaron tenía una historia relacionada que terminó cuando la tripulación desembarcó, es realmente fantástico.Una aventura de fantasía tan rica y llena de episodios inolvidables: un niño dragón, un grupo de Midas, enemigos invisibles, gente del mar pequeña, un ratón intrépido, una mesa encantada, la isla donde los sueños se hacen realidad y más.
The strongest of the three "Chronicles of Narnia" books I've read so far, "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" opens with a wonderful first line: "There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it." Eustace, a cousin to the four Pevensie children, who the first two books focused on, is the designated asshole in this entry, taking up the mantle carried by Edmund in "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" and Susan in "Prince Caspian."I've complained about this trope in my other reviews, but I don't have as much of a problem with it this time around because Eustace is so wonderfully bitchy.
The ending felt extremely abrupt after the rest of the story. I'm hoping hoping hoping we see Reepicheep again. I love that Mouse. Derek Jacobi's narration was good although I much prefer Eddie Izzard's Reepicheep vocal to a Mickey Mouse derivative; Reep is NOT Mickey.
In the Voyage of the Dawn Treader, King Caspian of Narnia takes to sea, sailing eastward to find the seven lords who were sent to eastern islands years ago by Miraz.
While admiring a picture of a sailing ship in Lucy's bedroom, they find them drawn in to the picture and transported in to Narnian waters right along with their whinny cousin.It was a pleasant adventure story to read.
The bravery, strength and courage of Lucy, Edmund and Caspian - the Narnian Kings and queen, were displayed poorly.
:) With his read, I've completed five books of the chronicles in their chronological order.
Este libro se convertirá en uno de los más especiales de mi vida, y por una razón muy concreta.Ayer día 17 de agosto se produjo un atentado terrorista en Barcelona, la ciudad donde nací y donde resido desde siempre.
Yo ayer estuve a punto de acercarme por esa zona, había quedado con un amigo precisamente una hora después de que se produjera el atentado.
Desde entonces, todo lo que he hecho ha sido mirar la televisión, leer artículos y preguntar a mis allegados si están bien y, a su vez, confirmar que yo lo estoy.Hoy, un día después, necesitaba olvidarme un rato de tanta desgracia y barbarie.
خیلی بهتر از جلد قبل بود.. ماجراها عالی بودن و پیش می رفتم به ویژه اولهای کتاب. اما یه چیزی رو چندان دوست نداشتم اونم اینه که دوست داشتم سرزمین اسلان رو بیشتر توضیح بده و یا یه جوریهایی بیشتر خود اسلان هم باشه توش.. خب اما این مانع این نمیشه که 5 تا ستاره رو بهش ندم.. :) بسی لذت بردم.. ^-^
Moram da priznam da me je Ripičip baš nervirao, ali su mi zato Smotavci ili Smotopadi sjajni :)
I don't agree with any aspect of this take on human suffering, but it's a lovely passage anyway.Speaking of things I don't agree with in this book: As an adult reader, I found it deeply amusing to play "Let's Count How Often Lewis Backs The Wrong Horse, Historically Speaking, in The Voyage of the Dawn Treader." The story starts off with a memorable introduction to Eustace Clarence Scrubb, a boy so nasty that he almost deserves such a name.
Well, I fell asleep halfway through, so I can't swear that I remember all of this correctly.
I think that they went off in a boat to find the evil green mist that was kidnapping people in City of Lost Children.Then, um, Lucy was tempted to become a vampire but thought better of it after a conversation with Aslan, and after that there was a fight between Godzillaand the Dark Overlord from Howard the Duck.At the end, Puss in Boots from Shrek fell off the end of the world.
Or maybe it was a mouse with a sword and not a cat.
I was listening to this the other day walking down the streets of Paris when it became apparent to me that The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is not only an amazing Fantasy story but also proof that even the most obnoxious and seemingly irredeemable people can still be saved and reminded of what life is all about: love, tolerance, friendship, faith, understanding, and of course adventure and discoveries.
Under its veneer of simplicity, this book is all that and more.
The Narnia Chronicles are timeless perfection.
Nothing more, nothing less.OLIVIER DELAYE, author of the SEBASTEN OF ATLANTIS series
I love this book. It drags a tiny bit in the middle but goodness, that ending is breathtaking. I sobbed of course! Lol this one is tied for my favorite with Magicians Nephew. Now onto the final two books which I never read as a kid! Ahh
Still isn't my favorite Narnia book, but I liked it so much better this time around. :) Narnia is just...no words describe it well enough. <3
Loved. The Eustace transformation scene is just the BEST. Pretty much any scene with Aslan.
Lucy, Edmund, and their cousin ("called Eustace Clarence Stubb, and he almost deserved it") get accidentally transported onto King Caspian's ship, which is starting a journey to the eastern sea.
Specifically, one thing Aslan told Lucy and Edmund.
I tolerated it, because you kept it to the sidelines and didn’t let the allegory overwhelm the cool stories with all the magic and swords and stuff.
Just when I’d finished a fun book about a sea voyage with almost none of your usual blatant symbolism, you dropped the bomb:"'You are too old, children,' said Aslan, 'and you must begin to come close to your own world now.''It isn't Narnia, you know,' sobbed Lucy.
I had kind of forgotten how easy it is to get lost in this series. I cracked open this book and before I knew it it was already over and I was longing for more. These books make me want to devour them all in one sitting but I’m trying to take it slow this time around. It’s torture in a way but it’s also great because I get to travel back to my childhood in between other reads! That being said, this is one of my favourites out of the series and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it again!
This book has what I would say is definitely one of the World's Top Five Best Opening Lines: "There was a boy named Eustace Clarence Scrubbs, and he almost deserved it." Eustace is an awesomely bitchy character who gets satisfyingly smacked down a couple of times by Ultimate Children's Fiction Dreamboat Prince Caspian.
Lucy and Edmund feature prominently, as well as an AWESOME character, Reepicheep the valiant warrior mouse.
You don't have to have read the whole series to enjoy this book, but you probably should read "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" (Book 1) and "Prince Caspian" (Book 2) for a lot of it to make sense.
I love the whole Narnia series, but this was my favorite. Lovely, sad, and whimsical. C. S. Lewis at his finest.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
