https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557220.Five_Get_Into_Trouble
Richard is randomly spotted by his father's former bodyguard who decides to kidnap him.
This is rather hard to buy into, but let's roll with it.The kids try to rescue Dick and are captured in turn, but the still absent Rookie isn't there to identify Richard as the boy he really wants.Anyway, there is some to and fro-ing, They almost escape but the gates are closed and that's an end to it.Timmy serves as a buffer between the criminals and the children.
The children discover that a man is hiding in a secret room in the house.
The baddies kidnapping children is not sufficient.
Book 8 certainly made-up for the comparative lack of thrills in the previous volume!Five Get Into Trouble starts off innocuously enough, with Anne, Dick, George, Julian and Timmy setting off on a bike ride (I’m assuming Timmy, being a dog, wasn’t riding a bike… but with him you never know; I’ve long suspected him to be the most intelligent of the Five).
Nah)…The remaining members of the gang (plus rich Richard) aren’t going to take that lying down, though, and they set off to rescue their abducted pal.I won’t say anymore for fear of spoilers (everything I’ve said so far is on the back cover of the book, so I’m pretty certain that doesn’t count as a spoiler) but, suffice it to say, there are thrills and spills aplenty in this book.
5 stars loved this book stories never get old 💕
Back to reading one of my old favorites, Enid Blyton.
Enid had some magic formula that kept kids hungry for her books, and I'm not exactly sure what it is, but when I was 12 years old I was hooked.
Over ten years later, I still pick up one of her books and smile- and then get hungry as the children describe all the wonderful things to eat!In this novel, we see the five off on a cycling tour because Uncle Quentin has booked to go away for conferences and they can't stay at Kirrin cottage.
... reading with my 9 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. I thought it was time to show them to her.This one was absolutely thrilling!
Favourite Famous Five :)
These kids are one courageous bunch. Rooky was a great baddie - hope he doesn't give my little boy nightmares. 9/21
Die Fünf Freunde auf Fahrradtour, eine Entführung aus Verwechslung (passiert zwei Hörspielfolgen später gerade nochmals 😂) und dank heldenhaftem Julian endet alles gut (das erinnert mich gerade an das TKKG Tim ist der Beste Schema). War ganz okay, aber der spätere ähnliche Fall tick besser. [22.08.2018]

A cycling tour of South Cornwall24 August 2012 Blyton seems to have moved a bit from her standard formula in this book in that it is not that the Five go off on some holiday by themselves to discover some crooks concocting some nefarious deed hidden away in a lonely part of the country, but rather that the crooks mistake poor Dick for the child of a wealthy industrialist (it is not mentioned what made him wealthy but I always like the term wealthy industrialist) and kidnaps him. While it is a ca
A cycling tour of South Cornwall24 August 2012	Blyton seems to have moved a bit from her standard formula in this book in that it is not that the Five go off on some holiday by themselves to discover some crooks concocting some nefarious deed hidden away in a lonely part of the country, but rather that the crooks mistake poor Dick for the child of a wealthy industrialist (it is not mentioned what made him wealthy but I always like the term wealthy industrialist) and kidnaps him.
It is funny because we wonder if such a thing would be allowed today, though we must remember that Julian, Dick, and George are teenagers, and even with this concern, we suspect that at their age, even today, they would be able to go off by themselves.
It's my mother's favorite childhood book series too, and somehow it's soothing to share the same childhood nuance with her.Pada buku Lima Sekawan kedelapan ini, Julian, Dick, Anne, George, dan Timmy melancong naik sepeda karena Bibi Fanny dan Paman Quentin harus pergi menghadiri konferensi.
Tiba-tiba saya ngerasa lebih berbakat jadi kriminal dibanding penjahat-penjahat ini karena saya bisa mikirin cara-cara lain yang lebih efektif supaya anak-anak ini nggak jadi ancaman.Saya nggak pernah menyadarinya waktu baca buku ini di masa kecil dulu, tapi Lima Sekawan ini ternyata memang lapar melulu, hehe.
Apa pun, sepertinya buku ini akan jadi buku yang asyik untuk dibaca bareng dan didiskusikan bersama anak-anak saya nanti :)
Really thrilling. Finished in few hours. Could not leave it.
My aunt just gave me an old copy of this book after I graduated from university.
Because she remembered that this particular book was probably my very first favourite book.
I used to loan in from the school library ALL THE TIME, it was literally going back and forth between me and another student from my sister's grade.
I was probably in like between 2nd and 4th grade at the time, and when the book was too tattered from use, the school librarian gave it to me.
Sadly, I lost my copy some time in the years after, as I moved a couple of times.
I loved it. Super fun. And shows one finds bravery when others least expect it. I also loved the definition of bravery too.
When Dick is mistaken for him and kidnapped, by Rooky, a dangerous criminal who had been a bodyguard in the Kent household, the children know they have two leads: Owls Dene on Owls Hill, and a Black Bently – KMF 102.
The children cycle from one small countryside village to another, enjoying the natural scenery and the freedom, having great meals and drinking ginger-beer.Then they meet Richard Kent, the somewhat spoiled son of a millionaire, who joins them using some lies, and after that the adventure soon starts.They meet Richard at a lake belonging to his father.
I didn't remember this book from childhood at all but I think this is the darkest one in the series so far.
The children set out on a cycling holiday and meet another young boy called Richard Kent.
So He thinks nothing of telling untruths to be able to accompany the children.
The rest of the book is about the plot to rescue Dick and catch the criminals.
The air of menace in this book was palpable for me and I actually felt anxious and afraid for the children.
Just the loss of freedom I think gave this book quite a different feel.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Buttock-clenchingly frightful, I'm so relieved (and delighted as always) to have 'buddy read' this with Paul for fear that I may otherwise have plopped my trollies. Poor old Dick has some trouble with mistaken identity!
This was my very first 100+ pages novel that I read all by myself when I was 6 years old. Though it took me almost 2 weeks to finish it, I really loved it. This book is the one which introduced me to reading and what prompted me to become an avid reader.
Pure nostalgia Storytelling at it's best.
Another Famous Five where the Five clearly think they are better at chasing down criminals than the Police (to be fair, they probably are!), and happen to be in the wrong (or is that right) place at the wrong time to fall into another adventure.
Julian leads the way.
Timothy gets locked outside.
Poisoned meat is mentioned.
They visit a farm for food.
Anne climbs a tree.
There's a smooth villian and a downtrodden housekeeper.
This Famous Five packs in all that makes the series in this book, but Julian is STILL extremely annoying - he doesn't save the day this time mind you!
3-1/2 stars.
The Famous Five are on quite an adventure this time, one that seems more wrought with potential for harm than the previous books in the series!
I liked this quote: “‘I suppose even the worst coward, the most despicable crook, the most dishonest rogue can find some good thing in himself if he wants to badly enough.’ ‘Yes, it’s the “wanting-to” that must be so rare, though.’”Because I am giving this book to my young granddaughter, I marked through a very few words, words we do not use, and replaced them with fun ones.
A little warning to those who might care.
"Dick's been kidnapped, mistaken for someone else, and the Famous Five are frantic!
Desperately, they track him down to a sinister old house in the middle of nowhere ..."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
Good book for children at school and of course this Enid Blyton series always makes me feel nostalgic. I loved the drama and the suspense part. To be learnt from this book is how this group of five apart from getting out of a troubled situation also help their new friend. How they help him and make him realise that everyone is a braveheart. I loved this book. I chose it as I wanted to read something in fictional adventure and of course, it reminded me of my school days.
This book was about 5 children who were on a holiday and they wanted to go somewhere else without their mum and dad or granny and when they were on their way Dick got kidnapped then the other 4 children tried to help him but they were too late and got trapped in Owls dene. I only gave this book one star because I dint really like it because there were loads of chatting and I didn’t really like the cliff-hangers.

This plot was very exciting and the famous five, along with their friend, manage to escape from a house with a secret door that is obviously discovered by them. The beauty of this story also lies in the fact that a little boy shown to be quite the coward finds his inner strength and courage due to the his newfound friends.
This is the most well-plotted! The story does not narrate only about the relationship about this gangs mostly toward story, but also tries to take the readers into the adventurous traveling themselves. The story slightly reviews a mystery piece by piece, and has more than one mysteries in one story, unlike the other books.
The 8th book in this series definitely made up for the interesting but less exciting 7th book!! This book had the children on a biking tour when they get involved with an tangle of criminals. The children, of course, were very brave but it was pretty scary for a while!!
Ending was a bit rapid but not that bad.
