https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2369.The_Great_Bridge
The building took from 1869 to 1883, so it is to be expected that during the fourteen years many incidents happened; most were related to the Brooklyn enterprise directly and some indirectly, as it happened with the tragedy of the Tay Bridge disaster in Scotland in 1879.The most fascinating part of the construction was the design and sinking of the two huge 'caissons'; structures that were different and had to be dealt with differently at either side, the Brooklyn and the Manhattan sides; the latter having to go a great deal deeper than the former.Also over my head went the stories of the local politics - both at the city level and at the corporate level.
The book covers all the details related to the making of the Brooklyn Bridge, from conception to completion.
It is also a biography of two amazing people, John Augustus Roebling (1806-1869), a German immigrant and engineer who conceived of and designed the bridge, and his son Washington Augustus Roebling (1837-1926) who was the chief engineer during the bridge's construction from 1869-1883.
The bigwigs, the politicians, the business men, the artisans, the immigrants, the small people and the big, the dreamers and the workers.Read this book to meet Washington Roebling!
The book goes into great detail about the bridge itself, its design and construction techniques.
It turned out that in mid-trip to the bridge site, the carriage containing high-grade steel had been switched with another containing low-grade steel!Another interesting aspect of the story is how many of the workers who worked at great atmospheric pressure inside the caissons were subjected to the bends.
Washington Roebling himself encountered a near-fatal exposure to the bends.This is a well-researched, comprehensive history of the Brooklyn Bridge, and the men who worked on it, designed it, and managed it.
True to McCulloughs style, he finds those larger-than-life people: engineers, politicians, soldiers, seedy crooks, and socialites and tells their fascinating stories in the context of the building of the bridge.
I also wondered that McCullough had not personally watched the bridge rise out of the east river as an eyewitness in a former life , and whether in that same former life those dynamic figures in his book had not been his own personal confidants.
The only negative that I have to say about the book is that more pictures and diagrams would add immensely to his masterful descriptions of such complex things like bridge anchorages and compression caissons.
… on a day when two young men were walking on the moon, a very old woman on Long Island would tell reporters that the public excitement over the feat was not so much compared to what she had seen “on the day they opened the Brooklyn Bridge.” On the inside cover of my copy of this book its previous owner has inserted a little love note. The brief message is written in a very neat script, in red ink, apparently on the eve of a long separation. Now, you may think that a book about the Brooklyn Bri
In any case, he is a writer, not an engineer, and he shines most when discussing the human experience of the Bridge.The bridge’s designer was John A.
Luckily for him, his wife, Emily, was a remarkable woman—diplomatic and brilliant—and helped to carry the project to completion.These personalities come alive in McCullough’s narration, turning what could have been a dry chronicle into an enthralling book.
And this is not to mention the political corruption, the manufacturing fraud, the deadly accidents, and the glorious celebrations that took place during the fourteen years of the bridge’s construction.Yesterday I revisited the Brooklyn Bridge, which is beautiful even if you know nothing about it.
I'm including some very interesting information I learned in my studies.The Brooklyn Bridge is a hybrid cable-stayed/suspension bridge in New York City and is one of the oldest roadway bridges in the United States.
After amputation of his crushed toes, he developed a tetanus infection that left him incapacitated and soon resulted in his death in 1869, not long after he had placed his 32-year-old son, Washington Roebling, in charge of the project.In February 1867, the New York State Senate passed a bill that allowed the construction of a suspension bridge from Brooklyn to Manhattan.
As David McCullough is one of my favorite writers about history, I expected a lot from this book and was not disappointed. Aside from the immensely engaging story of the obstacles, both engineering and human, faced and overcome to build the bridge, I was struck once again by the cavalier way most of us take great accomplishments for granted. Thank goodness there are people like David McCullough who do not!I've read this book and listened to it a couple of times on CD, and it never fails to fascinate.
I knew nothing about the Roeblings going into this book, so the images of those three actors completely dominated my reading of the book, as did thoughts like, “That will translate beautifully into film,” and “How are they going to pull that one off?”The books is over 500 pages, and the bridge took fourteen years to build, so naturally, the film will have to skip plenty.
If they stage it the death as the book describes it, Sir Kingsley is going to win another Oscar.John Roebling’s son Washington, then in his late twenties, succeeded his father as Chief Engineer of the bridge.
It is not easy to build bridges.Let me bring up a local case, of a bridge between Detroit, Michigan and Windsor, Canada, has led to years of heartache, political opposition from stubborn 80-year old billionaires, controversial political deals with the devil, and years of time spent.
And the thing hasn't even been built yet.McCullough covers not only the political side of Bridge-building, but the technical side well.
This is arguably his most famous book, and with good reason.
He makes the dullest of technical details shine.
McCullough is a phenomenal narrative historian and biographer, and it's good to revisit him again.
As expected with a David McCullough book, this one is excellent, at least 4.5/5 stars.
The book encompasses the entire 14 years of construction from 1869 to 1883.
McCullough does a good job of giving the reader that historical perspective.
The construction of the Brooklyn Bridge was an undertaking of mammoth proportions at that time.
The story of the man responsible for the design and construction of the bridge, Washington Roeblings, is as fascinating as the story of the bridge itself.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in U.S. history or the development of the modern industrial age.
As the title makes clear, this book tells the story of the building of the Brooklyn Bridge. The book is well-researched, but for my tastes there were just way too many detours from the main story, such as very lengthy descriptions of the flora and fauna around the bridge as well as of some individuals who only played a minimal role in the building project. Still it is a fascinating story, and so if such detours do not bother you, it is worth the read.
I also have a better understanding of the Tammany Hall scandal.
The book is filled with so many interesting people, especially Washington Roebling and his wife Emily.
The level of engineering that went into building the Brooklyn Bridge is just extraordinary, given the time.
I usually enjoy David McCullough's books a bit more than this one, but I felt it got bogged down in the engineering aspects of the subject matter.
When he was writing about the people and the times, the book was much better.
I am now obsessed with the Brooklyn Bridge.
The book The Great Bridge by David McCullough was a very detailed account of the long and troublesome building of the Brooklyn Bridge.
It starts with John Roebling and his design and plans for the building of the Brooklyn Bridge.
When he eventually passes away his son Washington Roebling takes over and continues where his father left off.
Washington Roebling and his team encounter many different problems and political situation that add time and frustration to the total time it will take to build the bridge.
This book was a little slow moving due to all of the details.
John Augustus Roebling, the architect, Washington Roebling, son and chief engineer, and Emily Roebling, wife of Washington and true partner to both Washington and the project, are the characters around which the story revolves.
The book also reveals though that there were worse villains in the building of the Brooklyn Bridge than Boss Tweed.
As a reader I also couldn’t help but want more insight into some of the personal details of the characters: the relationship between Washington and Emily, the intricacies of the politics and relationships within the Roebling family and the true causes of some of Washington’s health issues.
Not if it is written by historian David McCullough, a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner.
An amazing amount of research has gone into this history of the Brooklyn Bridge.....from the dream of a father (John Roebling) to a reality by the son (Washington Roebling).
We sometimes take for granted such icons as this bridge spanning the East River and never realize what it takes to make an idea a reality.....the "bends" caused by being in the caissons which killed and crippled, the involvement of "Boss" Tweed and the political machinations that surrounded the project.
This is beautifully written and almost reads like fiction.
One of the best non fiction books I've read. David McCullough is an extraordinary historical writer. To understand that this bridge was built over 150 years ago without all the modern excavation tools and equipment that we have today is amazing. The Brooklyn Bridge is still standing and still a valuable asset to travelers to this day.
I couldn't believe that I was hooked on a 500 page book about bridge building.
The Brooklyn Bridge would not have existed without John and Washington Roebling, father and son.
John Roebling was a German immigrant and engineer who designed the bridge with great ingenuity, but died of an accident before the bridge building began.
."Washington Roebling became the chief engineer of the bridge after his father’s death and led the arduous and painstaking construction effort for fourteen years.
McCullough has improved as a writer since this book came out in 1972, but he was writing well enough even back then to carry this reader through almost seven hundred pages in three days.One of the first grownup books I remember reading was a history of scams involving the sale of the Brooklyn Bridge.
Of course McCullough, a social historian, writes about a lot more than engineering in this book.
etc.Most touching--and McCullough often seeks to be touching--is the portrayal of Emily Roebling, wife of and assistant to the chief engineer of the bridge and its outworks.
For anyone not familiar with the great struggles involved in these terrific public works projects, this is a real eye-opener.
The totally horrible corruption surrounding politics of that day.
Makes me feel like our day is not necessarily the worst.3.
How totally captivated the general public was by the spectacle of its construction.
Nowadays things are being built and we don't pay much attention.The author does a very fine job of relating many of the correspondences and legal proceedings which add great depth to understanding what is involved to convince people to try something very innovative.
Les deux livres traitent d'un grand projet de construction dans une ville majeure au milieu du dix-neuvieme siècle.
Aussi, les deux livres offrent des descriptions de la corruption qui prevalaient à l'époque et les effets sur les travaux.Long de 1,825, le pont de Brooklyn a ete lors de son ouverture le plus long pont suspendu du monde.
McCullough decrit les efforts medecins de remedier au probleme qui etaient finallement vains parce que on n'avait pas encore invente la caisson hyperbare.The Great Bridge decrit de facon brillant la vie politique municipale aux E-U du milieu du dix-neuvieme siecle, Notamment, McCullough nous donne un portrait extraordinaire de Boss Tweed le plus grand detourneur des fonds publiques municipaux de l'histoire americaine.
As this book is about the building of the Brooklyn Bridge McCullough at times (appropriately) talks about engineering and other matters of science and my mind does not naturally attach itself to such things.
If you are a humanities guy (like me) there will be moments of struggle, but they are short and necessary.Like all history, this book is really the about the times and people, and the building of the Brooklyn Bridge is a catalyst around which to illuminate the times.
Read this book to learn something about an amazing engineering marvel, a piece of iconic American history, and to jump into the lives of some interesting people.
So much minute detail, but worth the effort. As much a portrait of the era, political and social, as a portrait of the iconic bridge, its planning, execution, and the behind the scenes shenanigans by the scoundrels of the age.
The 'great' moniker is aptly given to the Brooklyn Bridge because of the politics behind its inception, the creative ingenuity behind its building, and public response in its realisation.
Politics plays a central role in the creation of public works, and always has; a topic McCullough does not try to bury while discussing one aspect of the Bridge's greatness.The momentous nature of building the Brooklyn Bridge is not lost on McCullough.
While McCullough has addressed those with financial and political investment in this structure, as well as those who took the time to erect it, the general public's response plays a central role in its success.
This took me awhile but it was well worth finishing. I can't wait to go walk the Brooklyn Bridge again after learning so much about it!
There were definitely interesting bits and even some humor. It was very detailed. So much detail. Lost me during big stretches of politics and accounting. Perhaps it's just spring fever but it was so hard to stay with this one. I learned a lot but I'm so glad it's over.

Loved this audio version
David McCullough's "The Great Bridge" reveals to its readers the entire history of the Brooklyn Bridge, from the start of the construction in 1869 to its completion in 1883.
In addition to his meticulous research on the people, David McCullough vividly describes the major events (including the scandals) that occurred during the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge as well.
In spite of this, David McCullough's "The Great Bridge" is a wonderful book--the perfect book for anyone who is interested in New York history or the history of the Brooklyn Bridge itself, one of America's greatest landmarks.
I feel like I've accomplished something as big as the Brooklyn Bridge now that I've read this book.
While the building of the bridge was fascinating, McCullough's attention to detail got a but much at times, although certainly not enough to make me stop reading.
Washington Roebling spent so much time in the cassions that he was permanently disabled and had to watch most of the work from his house in Brooklyn, although he lived a long life in spite of it, dying at 89.
After so long with the book, I've got to go to New York and walk over the bridge in order to finish things off completely.
I liked the latter half of this book better than the first.
I got tired of the stories of political corruption in New York during that time as well as all the details about the the technical aspects of the construction and lowering of the caissons used for the foundations on the bridge on the New York and Brooklyn sides of the river.
At the same time, I don't know how the author could've left much of it out.
People of such talent, brilliance, and incredible work ethic.
These are the people we all lean upon.
There are men and women like this in every era.
