https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113934.The_Goal
It is hard for me to find the right tone to review this book, perhaps I'll open by saying that of all the business books I've read this remains the most approachable, and possibly also the best value for money once the case studies in the interview with the author at the end of the book are taken into account.Really it is built around a very simple insight - that the speed of a convoy is determined by the slowest ship, what the book does is demonstrate the effect of consistently applying this insight to the workings of a business.This is the basis of Goldratt's theory of constraints.
Did we really need the side story about the protagonists marital issues?One of the biggest takeaways from this book is that it's incredibly important to set the right goals to manage a complex operation.
It sounds like "cost accounting" fit into that bucket.“What you’re saying is that making an employee work and profiting from that work are two different things.”So how do you set the right goals?
My company produces software and not physical products, but each feature we develop definitely has steps it has to go through: creating the concept, research, spec, design, implementation (backend and client), testing, QA, measure results, analyze them, iterate, etc.
The best process improvement novel I've seen, this classic work explains the all-important Theory of Constraints through real life examples and a surprisingly good story. Most books of this nature are exceptionally unrealistic, but this one manages to keep the reader engaged, which is key for an instructional text like this.The book's lessons have some practicality in normal, everyday life, but its greatest utility is for those involved in process improvement in industries such as manufacturing, distribution, services, and retail. All industrial and systems engineers need to read this book, as do all managers of processes.
This is to Systems Thinking what The Five Dysfunctions is to management: A peachy piece of fiction, packed with applicable lessons in the most enjoyable format you can imagine.
I wish business fiction was a genre with endless options.In The Goal, a dysfunctional manufacturing plant is transformed after the protagonist has a chance encounter with his physics professor in an airport lounge.
Through an unlikely rekindling of the relationship, the professor shows him simple systems thinking principles that are gradually incorporated at the plant.

Also from a didactic perspective I think this is something we (as people leading teams) should strive for: Enabling peers to make better decisions by themselves via good process.==================================================The references in "The Phoenix Project" pushed me towards reading this one as well.
I really enjoyed listening to the audible version of this book and I would also argue that there's a lot to take from this book, even if you've already read "The Phoenix Project".
-PeachWhat is the Goal?Original thoughtsIncrease producitivityProduce productsPowerMarket share / SalesCost-effective purchasingSupplying jobsQualityQuality & EfficiencyTechnology / R&DCommunicationsCustomer satisfactionMake MoneyThree measurements essential to knowing whether company is making moneyNet ProfitROICash flowMake money by increasing net profit, while simultaneously increasing ROI, and simultaneously increasing cash flowBut he realizes that at the plant level these measurements don’t mean much.
if you produce something, but don’t sell it, it’s not throughput)Inventory - All the money that the system has invested in purchasing things which it intends to sellOperational expense - all the money the system spends in order to rurn inventory into throuputQuestions to ask when adding a robotDid we sell any more products as a result?Did we reduce number of people on payroll?Did inventory levels go down?
I think this book is excellent if you are new to Operations.
And I think the approach of telling a story rather reading a traditional text book is a good format.
In short, to optimize money earned, increase throughput, decrease operating expense and decrease inventory.
And an important corollary is that any change requires impact to all 3 (throughput, operating expense and inventory).
It is a fallacy that a change can impact only one of these metrics.A good follow on book to this novel is Synchronous Manufacturing: Principles for World Class Excellence by Umble and Srikanth.
(4.5) more interested in application to project development (vs repeatable manufacturing).I like the approach of 'discovering' the principles behind theory of constraints and how to optimize throughput through a repeatable manufacturing process.
The latter portion of the book ((view spoiler)[after Alex is promoted to division head and can't optimize a single plant, but needs to figure out how to optimize as a manager (hide spoiler)]) starts to address how to apply Theory of Constraints beyond the operations of a plant to more generalized management.
I kind of got lost there.Also interested in how Goldratt thought his theory could apply to relationships.
This book is fantastic. Not only does it introduce the Theory of Constraints, but does it so as if ToC was invented by the main characters themselves: Revealing the reasoning behind the theory, unfolding each step in a logical progression, highlighting the pitfalls and finally crystallizing the method.Truly genius.
It is a Fantastic book, full of wisdom and knowledge. For all Industrial Engineers and those who are interested in management trust me and read it :)
I did a bad thing and didn't realize that this was a library book that was supposed to be sent along to them six months ago...so I read it in a weekend and dropped it off on Monday.It's a good example tale of a problematic plant and how the manager turned it around using what was then different measurements of success (which are now much more standard today).
It's a really easy read, simple to follow, and maybe at times a little complexity would have been welcome.
Each problem is broken down into its simplest components so that the real priorities are easily identified and dealt with.Satisfying the senior management of his company and the accountants that he has turned around the fortunes of his plant proves difficult, but he supports his arguments with solid evidence.Managers will recognise many of the problems that Alex encounters as, although part of this fiction, they belong to the real world rather than the theoretical text books that they may be used to reading.
The story is far from dull and is easy to read and to understand.What particularly appealed to me, as a practitioner of process modelling and simulation, was the way that these techniques were used to bring about significant business improvements.
Автор в данной книге показывает отличный пример распространённых ошибок в бизнесе и в жизни человека. Он пытается донести до каждого, что готовые решения не всегда верны, что к желаемому результату человек должен прийти путём собственных умозаключений. Автор также даёт понять, что в гонке за эффективностью и за снижением затрат компании часто приносят себе вред и в итоге начинают меньше зарабатывать. Показывает, что таким образом возможно сделать бизнес убыточным, а следовательно даёт понимание как самому не делать похожих ошибок.Следует прочитать. Рекомендую.
This is a business book, telling the story of a factory manager, and eliminating bottlenecks, and ultimately helping to make money for your company. I liked the story approach of this book (as, lets be honest, so many business books are boring). No, you shouldn't read it for literature sake. Yes, it will give you some ideas on helping to achieve The Goal.One quick side-note: the audiobook is great, since it has other voices for different characters, background sounds (for when they're walking around the plant/factory), and nice touches like that. Very well done.
The book is very impressive about the way he discuss the problem and the progressive elaboration for solving the problem. The book is mainly talking about theory of constraints and how to deal with it.
At first, I was not sure if this book is my cup of tea, and I got a bit tired of the "here's your all knowing mentor approach" every other author seems to take, maybe reading too many business novels in a row.
Nevertheless, Goldratt's Theory of Constraints is one of the most important concepts to grasp if you're thinking about managing flow and throughput in goal oriented production systems.
Although this story is set within a manufacturing environment, its vocabulary can be easily abstracted to todays IT organisations.
Rest assured: Reading this piece and looking at how Kanban is frequently implemented might give you some eye-opening moments…
The Goal sets out to convey management principles through an engaging story of Alex Rogo, a plant manager, whose factory is on the verge of being shut down and whose marriage is virtually in shambles.
Goldratt is lucid in his style of writing and the book reads like any other story as opposed to one that is supposed to focus on management principles and come across as extremely serious in its nature.Tip: It is best to highlight certain things in this book, so if you're not fond of marking lines with a pencil in your paperback version (like me), then please go in for an e-book format.
Literally surprised at how original the book is nearly after 30 years of publication.
I feel this is the story of my factory, like the millions across the globe have felt.
This is one of those revolutionary books that took the manufacturing and mangement world by storm.
The book is worth in gold if you consider the costs it must have saved across the manufacturing world.
Having said that, towards the end the book just drags you.
It seems the author wanted to increase the page count to make it more publishable.
Eliyahu Goldratt is no doubt the world's one of the best management gurus.
The book deserves 5 for its place in business history, and I flip to 4 for it because it will communicate on a general-purpose level far better than a book like "Phoenix."But having been around people who understood about bottlenecks and the Theory of Constraints (if you don't know what those are, put down this review and go read the book) for some time, the book seems less revelatory to me.
Read "The Goal" afterwards to gain a deeper/fuller understanding of the Theory of Constraints - some of the explanations and the translation of WIP to inventory will help you visualize practices you struggle to describe daily.If you're not in IT, just read it - it's a breezy, light book, and is written to slightly below the level of an airplane novel.
However you hear The Goal bandied about seemingly endlessly so eventually I caved and got the book.
In saying that some of the characters are flimsy (Alex's wife is a witless pastiche there only to serve his needs and listen to his whinging) and some fit their stereotypes a little too neatly.
However, as a teaching aide it's clear what's being taught and the chapter on the scout trip is a highlight.The first addendum is a little piece that basically confirms other people have got this stuff to work.
The second addendum is a discussion around Toyota Production System (TPS) and The Goal.
"Now, this has to be interesting" I said to myself, when I was first introduced to this book, "An IT guy recommending a book on manufacturing, which is authored by a physicist!!" How the hell am I gonna miss this?The recommendation to read this book came along in a lecture from a prof, who himself is an IT guy.
In the vast sea of management books out there, there are only a few, and this book certainly has to qualify as the pinnacle of those books.
If a manager does not know how to answer those three questions, is he or she entitled to be called manager?" (Page 337) "Would we have had the courage to try to implement them if it weren't for the fact that we'd had to sweat to construct them?
If it weren't for the conviction that we gained in the struggle-for the ownership we developed in the process-I do not think we'd actually have had the guts to put our solutions into practice." (Page 267)------"I mean it!
A seminal work credited for inspiring the genre of "leadership novels", including some of my fav's "The Phoenix Project" (IT flavor) and "The Five Dysfunctions of a Team".
Goldratt demonstrates that even fictional storytelling proves a powerful platform for describing the human dimension of leadership as well as the scientific processes and critical thinking models often dryly outlined in organizational psychology texts.
The story focused on manufacturing with long descriptions of productivity, inventory flow, and change management, the characters delve into popular science and classical philosophy to arrive at fundamental lessons in management.
By far the best business improvement book on the market.
I know people who really poo-poo "business fiction" and many poorly written ones may be out there, but with The Goal, the story is so real and the critical thinking skills are so prevalent that you cannot help but get pulled into the story.
To me TOC is one of the most under-rated systems out there.With the 3rd Edition Audio there is about an hour and half of bonus footage that includes Dr. Goldratt's take on why methods such as TOC TPS haven't been adopted by all businesses.
This was a very unique, interesting little book.
The author has developed "The Theory of Constraints" (which is a factory that can produce a product only as fast as its slowest bottleneck) and put it in novel form in order to explain it to the average worker.
only as fast as our weakest link will allow.The key is to be able to identify constraints, determine how and what needs to be done to unclog the bottleneck, while causing as little turbulence, or interruption, to the goal as possible.
This book is not for everyone.
The book explained how a plant manager, Alex almost fail his company. Instead he turned it around with help from a colleague Jonah. It explained what is needed and steps that are taken in order to keep the company going. So, hopefully I pass my test tomorrow. ;)
Долго и упорно внедряют канбан на заводе, не понимаю зачем я вообще это читал. Художественная ценность -5 из 7; практическая - лучше прочитать статью вики про канбан. Сюжетная линия про брак главного героя очень cringeworthy.
Книга понравилась наглядными и интересными примерами. Не понравился стиль изложения, порой читать было очень скучно. Я бы всем рекомендовал данную книгу к прочтению, особенно тем, кто не знаком с концепцией Бережливого производства (Lean Production).
I have never been so excited to finish a book in my entire life. This book is like subpar fan-fic for operations enthusiasts.
