https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34532.Hogfather
So many things stem from the simple fact - we, humans, need to believe; we need to create and fantasize to make the world make any sense, to have the world we think of as permanent BE.Belief is what underlies what we are as humans.
Basically, we need to believe in little lies - like Hogfather - before we are able to believe in big lies that make us human.And that's what Pratchett says in this book, through the small-caps voice of his most enigmatic and inhuman character - DEATH.
"IT IS THE THINGS YOU BELIEVE IN WHICH MAKE YOU HUMAN. GOOD THINGS AND BAD THINGS, IT'S ALL THE SAME." Hogfather itself concerns the Discworld, where there are things that control the Universe called The Auditors and they do not like Humans, because Humans are messy. Well, they did invent dullness. And Death is meddling again. His grand-daughter Susan is trying to be normal, but how normal is hitting bogeymen with a poker, really? And we haven't even mentioned the one-eyed Assassin yet, or the
It is very much an English-kind-of-Humour book.What you take from this particular novel, however, is just how important belief is to Human Beings.
It is not enough to say that we tell children to believe in Father Christmas just so that they don't understand the value of money and have to work it out later on or because it's "tradition", but it's so we can understand that beliefs are the most important thing to us.
If we did not believe, what would we be?I'm not sure how, but my third read of this made me upgrade it to a full 5-stars.
3 stars.Second read: 19th December, 2015.
4 stars.Third Read: 21st December, 2016.
5 stars.Fourth Read: 16th December, 2017.
Това, което чак сега (!) осъзнавам в романите за Света на Диска, в които Смърт заема централна роля, е, че той някак си е въплъщение на повече човещина от самите хора.
Някак обаче успява да улови непреходната им същина, онова човешко, което сякаш го няма в чист вид, а е останало само в умовете на хората или в преданията, като идеал, като послеобраз на древни, здраво стъпили на земята прадеди.
Е, първо трябва да се пребориш със себе си, защото това, което дебне в собственото ти съзнание, обикновено е по-лошо от всички караконджули и вампири тъдява.
Въплътените същества, занимаващи се с неща, които все някой трябва да ги свърши.

“Charity ain’t giving people what you wants to give, it’s giving people what they need to get.”   “There’s a tip, though. Just ‘ho, ho, ho’ will do. Don’t say, ‘Cower, brief mortals’ unless you want them to grow up to be moneylenders or some such.”  I first read the Hogfather in 2010 and it became a favourite by page 15 or maybe page 10. I have reread it before/during Xmas ever since to get into/out of the spirit of things.It is an awesome book & never stops to amaze / entertain me even aft
Don’t say, ‘Cower, brief mortals’ unless you want them to grow up to be moneylenders or some such.” 
'It's not safe!'IT'S A SWORD, said the Hogfather.
THEY'RE NOT MEANT TO BE SAFE.'She's a child!' shouted Crumley.IT'S EDUCATIONAL.'What if she cuts herself?'THAT WILL BE AN IMPORTANT LESSON.” “IT'S THE EXPRESSION ON THEIR LITTLE FACES I LIKE, said the Hogfather.
It certainly beats Charles Dickens when comes to spreading seasonal cheer and tell an uplifting tale of what makes humans ...
human.
Hogfather has got all the classical elements of stories of woe and hardship appealing to our collective social conscience, it has charming wintry scenes, it has a fat man climbing down chimneys to deliver presents.
And, yet, all the wizards, fairies, gnomes, bogeymen, and ant-driven computing machines cannot take away any of the depths that line the story of how DEATH's love of humans saves the world from eternal meaninglessness.The sun rose.
Gold light slammed into the mountain peaks, making every one a blinding, silent volcano.
Hogfather, his 20th Discworld novel first published in 1996, takes off where 1992’s Small Gods (his 13th) leaves off.“Hello, inner child, I'm the inner babysitter!”Hogfather, Discworld’s swinerific version of Jolly Old Saint Nick, has gone missing and Death has taken over while things get sorted out.
NO SUGAR PIGGYWIGGY FOR YOU, ALBERT.” “Belief” is difficult at best in our world, but in Pratchett’s Discworld, the complexities of belief in a theological personification can take on a whole other sort of intricacy.
Then Terry goes one step further and satirizes the concept of belief and fear and studies themes of faith, psychological need, and fundamental fairness in his special and unique way.
Which is not a bad thing at all.***6/21/2014Winter solstice holiday book at the summer solstice, why not?
There's also a contemporary feel, with Pratchett riffing on Miracle on 34th Street, and A Christmas Story, as well as more modern retail jokes.
The particular winter holiday of the story is a Dickensian sort of event in the home where Susan's working, but the overall effect is part of the general trend of bringing a medieval-Londonish fantasy setting up to the modern day.
Still as good on every reread. Pratchett at his best with better insights in to humanity than anyone else.
Re-reading of "Hogfather", one of my all time favorite books, or so I thought.
Despite the number of new books under my belt, this held up incredibly well.Susan, the non-biological grand daughter of Death, is employed as a nanny and trying to be normal.
Her fragile attempts at normality end when she feels the need to investigate why her father has decided to dress up as the Hogfather (the Discworld's variation of Santa Claus).
'Yes, but people have got to believe that, or what's the point---' MY POINT EXACTLY."*********This was the first Pratchett book I ever read.
This book is hilarious!
My 2012 two cents: I just about peed my pants with this one!My 2017 two cents and five mills: just re-listened to this last week, which is kind of appropriate this time of year, and I loved it just as much the second time around, if not more.
The fun never seems to stop giving with these books, really.
I mean, Death filling in for Santa during Christmas (aka Hogswatch on the Discworld) is in itself hilarious, but this book delivers so much more in terms of acutely-studied parallels with our own world that it takes the definition of satire to a whole new level, making it nothing short of a masterpiece of British humor.
Probably my favorite Discworld novel ever!
26/12/2015I've adored Terry Pratchett's Discworld series for nearly 20 years now, but in the past year or so, I've gained a new appreciation for the subtleties of his writing.
And it was the perfect Christmas reread - while it may be deeply funny and highly entertaining, at its core, Hogfather is a story about the power and importance of belief.Susan and Death are two of my favourite Discworld characters, and it's completely wonderful to have them both throughout so much of this book.
If for no other reason, this is worth reading for the scene where Death takes over as a department store Hogfather.
One of my big reading goals for 2018 was to finally dive into Sir Terry Pratchett’s well-loved and legendary Discworld series, and what better way to do that than to tackle the obligatory Discworld holiday novel, “Hogfather?” (screeching record sound………) WAIT!!
Oh, and Death has a granddaughter who happens to be a governess, and a bit of Discworld nobility, and who has some knowledge of magic, and she gets drawn in by one of Death’s lesser personas, the Death of Rats…...and…..oh goodness, I’m terrible with these synopsis things sometimes.
Jeste ovo dobar roman, promišljen, vispren, ali na trenutke mi se činilo da sam ga već pročitao, iako sam Pračeta prvi put sreo prošle godine.
I onda malo razmislim i shvatim da naravno da nisam pročitao, ne ovo, ali da jesam već čitao ovu strukturu, u prethodne četiri knjige Diska koje su mi na kontu.
Tako da, bez obzira na tipično inteligentna razmišljanja Pračeta/Smrti o ljudskosti, veri i smislu besmisla (ili esenciji kvintesencije što bi rekla moja bivša prof.), me ništa me posebno nije ostavilo bez reči, iako je možda moglo da mi je ovo prvi Diskvrld roman.
I try to read this every year. It’s fantastic. Needed it this year especially.
I'm not sure the Auditors were strictly necessary to the plot, but maybe they figure elsewhere in Discworld novels I haven't read yet.
This is the first Discworld novel I've read in which Death plays a major part, and I really like how he attempts to understand people and revive belief in the Hogfather.
Death's granddaughter, Susan, is an excellent character, another of Pratchett's very cool females; and I really enjoyed her parts of the plot, too, whether she's dealing with the monsters under the bed or trying to figure out why Death's flying around and saying HO HO HO.
Just Pratchett really, a plucky yet reluctant hero/ine must save the day as reality itself is being royally buggered through the power of magic and a maniac villain, etc, while we have vignettes of the best and brightest of the Unseen University acting their usual selfish, gluttonous and dim selves, etc, etc.
Perfectly enjoyable and the antagonist feels especially malevolent this time, though I still can't decide if Susan Sto Heilt is a troubled woman desperate for normalcy or just a shitty Granddaughter.What makes this book an utterly delightful piece of Holiday literature, is the side story that involves a seven foot skeleton with a pillow shoved under his Santa Hogfather outfit, riding through the sky on a pig drawn sleigh beside a stubbled, alcoholic 'elf' and a magical gift sack, with a plan to bring Hogwatch cheer to the land as best they can.
“IT'S THE EXPRESSION ON THEIR LITTLE FACES I LIKE, said the Hogfather.'You mean sort of fear and awe and not knowing whether to laugh or cry or wet their pants?'YES. NOW THAT IS WHAT I CALL BELIEF.” “YOU HAVE TO START OUT LEARNING TO BELIEVE THE LITTLE LIES.'So we can believe the big ones?'YES. JUSTICE. MERCY. DUTY. THAT SORT OF THING.”  This is my favorite Discworld book in quite some time. It's just so good!It's not as quippy or joke-heavy as some Discworld books, but what it lacks in goofery
“IT'S THE EXPRESSION ON THEIR LITTLE FACES I LIKE, said the Hogfather.'You mean sort of fear and awe and not knowing whether to laugh or cry or wet their pants?'YES.
While he's running around with a fake beard and a pillow stuffed up his Hogfather costume, practicing his HO HO HO's and making his pixie friend Albert pretend to be the Hogfather's helper, his reluctant granddaughter Susan gets drawn into the whole business against her will.
He gets a little too into the role, as per the usual.This is definitely in my top three Discworld books now, so a big thank you to Malin, who gave me my copy of this book in the Cannonball Read annual book exchange last Christmas.
There are plenty of interesting characters but Death does have a more prevalent role and he entertains throughout trying to get his head around the whole idea of Christmas and the giving of gifts.
Death and Albert steal the show in this one for me but there were no real dull characters and all were entertaining to read about (but as seems to be the norm for me, the Wizards were the least entertaining).Well worth a read but I am definitely glad I bumped this one up my reading list to fit in with the season as it may not have had the same impact out of season.
Terry Pratchett's Christmas Special5 January 2015 I started reading this book because I thought it was going to be a great book to read in the lead up to the festive season, however the only problem was that my timing was completely off – I finished it five days into the new year, which sort of defeats the purpose of reading a book for the festive season. I guess the next time I decide to read such a book, such as Charles Dickens'  A Christmas Carol, I should time it so that I finish the book, a
The thing is that this isn't Earth, this is the Discworld, which means that Pratchett has actually created a completely different, yet similar, tradition.
This, as you can imagine, ends up causing some problems, because the whole idea of the Hogfather giving gifts actually isn't to give the child what he wants, but what the economic situation stipulates.
To me it makes sense, because to Christians Christ was born during what they believed as humanity's darkest day, and what his birth signified was that there was a light at the end of the tunnel, and that they could look forward to a time when things would be restored.
Because there are no chapters and because scenes are switched very often, reading this book in small chunks was a mistake because I forgot what I read the previous day many times.
These two characters were fantastic and I am looking forward to reading the previous Death books in this series.
The cooks at the restaurant end up having to make "book soup" like many of the homeless people did.
Hogfather was a fun book that was a joy to read, had some fantastic scenes with Susan and Death, and everything came together nicely in the end, but because of my lack of focus and reading style, or possibly the lack of clarity at the beginning of the novel, had me feeling out of sorts while reading.
Just short of four stars, but worth rounding up. My first Discworld book, and admittedly it took a while to get used to his writing style, (no chapters, and frequent movement from one storyline to another after brief passages). Overall I found this to be clever, entertaining, and quite imaginative, with some interesting underlying messages. Didn't hook me on the series, but every fantasy reader should experience at least one Discworld book. I was not disappointed with Hogfather.
Brilliant. I adored it. I can't wait to get more books in the series. Maybe the witch books next?
I laughed aloud a few times while reading this clever Christmas parody, but I had a bit of trouble following the plot and grasping who all the characters were given that this was my first Discworld book; in general I’d say that Pratchett is another example of British humor that I don’t entirely appreciate (along with Monty Python and Douglas Adams) – he’s my husband’s favorite, but I doubt I’ll try another of his books.Favorite lines:“Getting an education was a bit like a communicable sexual disease.
Hilarious as always, Death sets off on another quest to save the world.
This time from reality auditors who are trying to erase humanity by killing the Hogfather (Santa).
They do so by employing a monstrous human.
So when the Hogfather disappears...
Death steps in, which is of course where the hilarity steps in.There's a huge discussion about what belief is, when we are children, and why it goes away when we grow up.
Why we need to believe and what those beliefs do for us.
Certainly one of the best books of the Death series.
I have seen the TV adaptation so many times, it's a Christmas tradition around here, that it is hard to separate my affection for the show with my affection for the writing of Pratchett. The guy from Hustle is great as Teatime and the girl from Downton Abbey perfect as Susan Death, and they both bring the two central characters to life in such a way that the book feels very flat in comparison but as a standalone Discworld novel on the nature of belief it's almost as good as Small Gods with the silly humour toned down a little.
This is, I think, the fourth year running that I've read Hogfather in the week before Christmas. So I simply can't even try to give it a real review. It isn't quite my favorite Discworld book (that would be Night Watch), but it's well on up there. It's certainly my favorite Death book, which is saying something.
(This is a fundamental characteristic of the magical system in Terry Pratchett's Discworld books.) Belief causes the thing believed in to exist, and when belief stops, that existence stops.
Here are a few things I noticed:•	It is, of course, a parody of the Santa legend.•	It's a cultural satire about our traditions and philosophies.•	It's a not-so-thinly veiled criticism of holiday commercialism.•	It's a morality tale about duty and the importance of family ties.•	It's a philosophical statement on the nature of humanity.•	It contrasts rational and irrational ways of thinking.•	It provides a brief comment on emergent artificial intelligence.•	It's a fantasy story that pokes fun at fantasy, while, at the same time, explaining why fantasy is both meaningful and necessary.•	Oh yeah, and it's funny.If you have not read any Discworld books yet, you should.
5 stars! My favorite Death book to date. It's about belief and childhood and the little lies we need.
I have been a fan of Terry Pratchett's Discworld series for over 15 years now but I have to admit I've fallen a little behind with the more recent books.
This book is a perfect festive read, Death has always been one of my favourite characters in the series and seeing him dress up as the Hogfather (the Discworld equivalent of Father Christmas) is absolutely hilarious.The Auditors are causing trouble again, they may be in charge of keeping the universe running smoothly but they think it would be much better if there were no humans around messing things up.
