https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12232938-the-lovely-bones
Or this one, this time about someone’s heart: “Her heart, like a recipe, was reduced.” What the hell?And here’s my favorite eye description in the book: “Her pupils dilated, pulsing in and out like small, ferocious olives.” That’s right.
It’s not that I don’t want to write spoilers here, it’s that I can’t even explain to you what happened at the end of the book.
It seems that Sebold’s characters do one of two things: they laugh (which means they are happy) or cry (to butter their toast, somehow, when they are sad).
What isn't revealed until maybe the last fifty pages is that the girl herself, Susie Salmon, becomes a rapist.Ideologically, I'm not certain which one is worse.
The only difference is that George Harvey lived and Susie Salmon died.
The difference is that George Harvey is portrayed as the villain he is, while little Susie Salmon is treated as a hero.Those who have read the book may not have even noticed Susie's complete abandonment of moral sense or care for the woman she violates.
You and George Harvey should get along nicely.p.s. even though I called it a spoiler, I think that Alice Sebold spoiled the book.
The greatest first 30 pages ever. The worst rest.
I can only assume that Mr. Grossman confined his reading to the zeros on the check accompanying the publisher's blurb or else has some sort of vitamin deficiency that causes his brain to process ham-handed tripe as "beautiful" art.It was Mr. Grossman's review along with the alluring premise of the novel (a young girl posthumously tries to make sense of the events that led to her death) that led me to order "The Lovely Bones" and "The Dogs of Babel," which at the time were only available in hardcover.
The thing is that if I wasn't a register girl, I would have constant actual contact with the books themselves.
All lunacy aside, one book that I stared at the entire time was this one, cuz it was literally on the number one shelf in the front of the store for a good two years or so.
Last week or so, I was reading a friend's blog and she talked about reading the book and how it was so affecting that she found herself driving to work in complete tears.
The way she wrote the book, from Suzie's viewpoint, was definitely some work on her part.
“Inside the snow globe on my father's desk, there was a penguin wearing a red-and-white-striped scarf.
When I was little my father would pull me into his lap and reach for the snow globe.
When I told my father this, he said, "Don't worry, Susie; he has a nice life.
You know that feeling when you finish a book and you're desperately wanting more?
It really touched my heart in more ways than I can say.I couldn't stop thinking about the characters, Susie especially.
Yes, there is great evil in the world.
Yes, people do unthinkable things to others.
The moment I finished The Lovely Bones, I let out a long, slow and heavy breath.Because that was some damn satisfying ending.I strongly believe that if you go into this book thinking it will be creepy, scary, mysterious, fast-paced and full of shocking revelations, you will be tempted to put it aside after the first sixty pages.
And it’s definitely not only about punishing Mr. Harvey for what he did.The Lovely Bones follows the family and friends of Susie, a teenage girl murdered by her neighbour.
Snippets from his mildly troubling childhood are revealed…explaining nothing.-Grandma Lynn – the often drunk but all-knowing grandmother with a ‘wacky’ liberal perspective on life.-I could go on…the youngest sibling who sees the ghost of Susie as his imaginary friend, the sister who struggles to become her own person from under the shadow of her dead sister, her boyfriend as the complete antithesis to the evil Mr. Harvey, her boyfriend’s older brother as the macho gear-head with a heart of gold.The NarrativeThere is only the occasional passage where the narrator’s voice sounds like that a teenage girl from the mid-seventies (“Lindsay had a boy in the kitchen!” – oh the giddiness of it all!).
When i read the book I thought it was pretty good.
Taking over her body and using that time to have sex is another violation.
And to have sex with a boy, knowing that is the antithesis of everything this "friend" would have wanted or agreed to is yet another violation.
I mean, I have some pretty close friends - some I have known for at least triple the time these two girls have "known" each other - and if I somehow managed to just steal their bodies and have sex with a woman??
Great read! a detailed storyline of a tragic death through violence...then overcoming it by first acceptance then letting go and also moving on in life...survival was another...really good writing (paperback!)
I can't review this book by thinking about the plot or about theme and diction, for it is only (and truly) a series of snapshots, candid and sore, that piece together the lives of living people.
This book is about the people in my life and yours whose very essence is pinned down to a spot in time and space--these lovely bones, growing in a soft-shelled skeleton around our lives.
It is by turning the pages where these bones grow, that I could reflect on the wheel of life--what a joy (can you call it joy when it's sad?) to witness humanity breathing ceaselessly, moving forward, and loving without remorse.
It's slow, boring and there is no real connection with any of the characters.
I admit that it was creepy and well told, I read that and geared myself up for a good book.
But for me, it was as if the story ended there and the rest was a load of slow-moving waffle.
The great idea had come along, happened for a while, and then died a painful death with the protagonist.
The characters weren't interesting enough to hold up the rest of the story, I was just relieved when I finally got to the end.
This is a fine novella which some enterprising editor persuaded Sebold to transform into a novel. And the novel is not a good one, featuring unbelievable twists and turns and a super creepy ending (but not super creepy in a good way) reminiscent of the movie "Ghost." My advice: read the first third and stop. If I had done that, I might have given it four stars.
This was the book that made me realise the serious flaw in the theory that if lots of people you see on the tube are reading a book, it must be good.
I would say with some confidence that this is the worst book I've ever read in my entire life.The only thing that kept me going to the end was sheer bloody-mindedness; a determination not to be defeated by any book no matter how brain-deflatingly awful it is.
That said, the endless cloying sentimentality in this almost made me throw it in the bin on several occasions, and it contains the single worst simile I've ever encountered in an entire lifetime of book-reading.
What a disappointment.
I had high hopes with this book.
Anyway, though the author doesn't owe me anything, I did feel cheated of my hours invested in The Lovely Bones.Thematically, the book is a mess.
The questions we have, both about events in heaven and on earth are left unanswered.
I also found myself getting a bit depressed.
I usually am like that whenever I read a bad book.But this time I got depressed because I was reading the Lovely Bones.
Death is a pitiless side of our cognition, but the way it has been treated here is so underwhelming.
The first half was easy enough to read and then unfortunately I started getting bored particularly when Sebold started rehashing the same old lines which was just frustrating after a while.
I felt like there was no point to these side-line stories and superfluous characters.
So okay, I'm not the author and the author chose to not take that route but I think if you're going to include something as dramatic as that in the novel perhaps touch on it a little more.
I found Sebold's ideas disappointing.
Further, I guess people find comfort in the idea of heaven.
لحن کودکانه ی سوزی، با گذشت سال‌ها همچنان کودکانه می‌ماند، و این روح به روایت ماجراهایی می‌پردازد، که در طول ده سال، پیرامون: والدین، دوستان، پلیس، و حتی قاتلش، رخ می‌دهد.
What if you die as a toddler, do you still get to come back and fuck someone?
Also, she says she doesn't want to go after her murderer while in the host, that's real fucking nice, Susie, the whole book's about you wishing you hadn't died and the strain it put on your family, and you'd rather take a dick in a bathtub then stop him from raping/killing more children.
If you're gonna plagiarize from a Patrick Swayze movie, please make it "Roadhouse."P.S. The real version of this book is called "Remember Me" by Christopher Pike which I read when I was ten.
Wow. I'm surprised that there was so much animosity towards this book (from the reviews here on Good Reads).
Even if I didn't like it, I don't think I'd find so much in it to HATE it.
The approach is different, which some might call trite or some call imaginative.
I think I just liked Susie.
She spoke what was on her mind, the perspective was fresh and the subject wasn't typical.
Maybe this was a product of hype?
It took me a few hours to read and I enjoyed it.
I won't rave on it, but I appreciate a good story.
I’m finally free of this book
Well that wasn't a happy happy good time...The Lovely Bones is going to be difficult to review without spoilers, so if you haven't read it yet I'm gonna have to go ahead and ask you to leave, m'kay?Why am I not surprised to learn that Alice Sebold was raped at a young age?
At times I enjoyed this look (maybe not the POV from which the story's told) at the after affects of a young girl's mysterious murder.
So yes, I did like The Lovely Bones, but as for my tepid 3-star rating, all I can say is, Oprah lied.
This is easily the worst book I've ever read in my entire life. SPOILER ALERT: She comes back from heaven to bang the guy she liked.If you like this book, then you hate literature. It's that simple. I'm not joking. Do not read this book.
Nel cuore dell’orco?No, nella mente e nel cuore della vittima: molto, ma molto più interessante.L’assassino-Stanley Tucci.Nella mente di un assassino ci siamo già stati, “A sangue freddo”, il romanzo di Truman Capote, c'è riuscito benissimo 36 anni prima - e poi altri c'hanno provato, chi c'è riuscito (pochi), non ha mai saputo raggiungere quella vetta.
I più hanno fallito.Qui, adesso, con Alice Sebold siamo dall'altra parte, nella vittima.
"These were the lovely bones that had grown around my absence: the connections – sometimes tenuous, sometimes made at a great cost, but often magnificent – that happened after I was gone."I hardly ever read books when they are first released.
But I didn’t take much interest in it because, sometimes, when a book/movie/album gets so many rave reviews, I’ll expect it to blow me through the roof and will end up disappointed when it’s only mildly entertaining or moving (see: The Time Traveler’s Wife).I prefer to go in with low expectations and let myself be surprised with greatness.
Bluntly dealing with the effects of a young girl's rape and murder and her family's reactions, Alice Sebold uses interesting writing techniques to delve into different viewpoints and point out the enormous impact of such a horrifying family disaster.In case you haven't read this book yet, it is easy to enter it with wrong expectations.
Susie can't let her family go, and they see her everywhere; in the valley where she was killed; in her fathers work room.
If you are in the mood for reading a depressing story then this book is definitely for you.The diction that Alice Sebold uses creates clear visuals in my head of what it was that Susie saw, and what she felt like being dead.
Another things that made me like this book so much was the fact that there were details that were used to help describe Susie that were also about me.
Although the subject of a little girl being brutally raped and murdered is extremely disturbing I thought it would be interesting to read about her in the afterlife as she watched her family try to solve her murder.There is not much that I can even say without giving things away, but I did not like this book at all.
I felt very bored at certain parts too, and found my mind wandering, but I'm not sure if the book was genuinely boring or if my mind just wanted to escape the thoughts of it.About the rating.

Remarkably, first-time novelist Alice Sebold takes this difficult material and delivers a compelling and accomplished exploration of a fractured family's need for peace and closure.The details of the crime are laid out in the first few pages: from her vantage point in heaven, Susie Salmon describes how she was confronted by the murderer one December afternoon on her way home from school.
What, in the end, is served by poor little Susie leading us all a merry chase and we voyeuristically move inside the lives of her nearest and dearest?
This book tells the story of the most horrific thing a family could ever endure, the murder of a loved one, a child.
Although she can watch her loved ones, know what they are doing, thinking, and feeling, she cannot be with them, or they with her.
Like Susie, we want to know her family will be okay.
Her family slowly begins to crumble and Susie can do nothing to help.
This sounds like a suffocating, depressing book, but as you read you'll feel encouraged as Susie's family begins to move on, never to forget, but to begin to live life without her.
