https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60211.The_Shadow_of_the_Torturer
Every analysis I've read of this book mentions that even the narrator is unreliable.This can be an effective technique, but in combination with a world of infinite, unpredictable intrigue, Wolfe's story begins to evoke something between a soap opera and a convoluted mystery novel, relying on impossible and contradictory scenarios to mislead the audience.
His followers have said that he isn't 'concerned with being conspicuously witty', but I'd suggest he's merely incapable of being vibrant or intriguing.There were interesting ideas and moments in the book, and I did appreciate what originality Wolfe did have, but I found it strange that such a different mind would produce such hidebound prose, tired descriptions, convenient plots, and unappealing characters.
Exquisitely crafted prose.The first half of the book is entirely enjoyable, and builds up a world (Urth) that is entirely unique among any fiction I've come across.
There are enough mysteries here to keep me very interested in finishing the series, because I really need to know what's going on here.
I'll save final judgement until I've finished The Book of the New Sun, since this is very much just 1/4 of the total story.
He compared events happening to him as being too strange, and too random, like badly written stories that he's read before.This Gene Wolfe fellow seems to know what he's doing here.
Severian is assigned to meet her requests and through the year of her imprisonment, learns much beyond his basic education as they both read and discuss philosophy and myth (don't worry, there are no pages of arcane philosophy to be skimmed past).
Without at least some preliminary knowledge of what the author was doing, I think the joy in reading this interesting smart novel will be dimmed to a degree.I noticed some of the more literary reviewers who also picked up on the mythological references gave this book two stars or so simply because they thought, "oh, dear, yet ANOTHER metafictional story, yawn." Well, EXCUSE ME!
I have no idea what to say about this book. I don't even know what I thought of it.I've heard that it's supposed to be difficult to read. I disagree.I've heard that the writing is outstandingly beautiful. I disagree.And so neither my positive nor my negative expectation was met. Moreover, the story was a mess, the main character was a mess and the setting was a mess. Somehow it was still good. The end.
Then again, if I took up 200 pages with flowery words of why this booked suck, I'd be doing the same thing the author of this piece of shit did.The Torture of the Shadower:Flowery prose?
I'm reading a book for story.
Wolfe has this insanely annoying tendency to make up a bunch of words without definition and string them through the narrative, making the readers feel like the dumbfucks because they don't know what they mean.
This reminded me of China Mieville, and as people that know me will tell you, THAT IS NOT A GOOD THING.I found myself skimming by the last 40 pages or so.
A dark jewel.Reminiscent of Ursula Le Guin, Robert Silverberg and Jack Vance, Gene Wolfe’s 1980 high fantasy begins a four book series about Severian, an apprentice in the Guild of Torturers who shows mercy and is exiled as an executioner.And like most fantasies, it’s about a lot more too.
Couple this with an original and unique, highly imaginative and complex world building and the high praise is warranted.I thought of Jack Vance and his The Dying Earth series frequently while reading this.
It turns out that my assumption was wrong and there are no more gruesome torture scenes.In a way this has echoes of my own debut where a good number of readers reached the early "off screen" rape and assumed (incorrectly) that there would be more.
The story trickles along and ends in mid flow with many outstanding questions to lead you on to the next book should you feel you need to know the answers.
I struggled through this book and spent most of it waiting for the end to redeem it.
If you've read any of my other reviews you may know that books that don't have proper endings are a major pet peeve of mine.
I was sorely disappointed.I found this book very difficult to read.
My lack of enjoyment reading the first book will likely mean that I never get into a position to understand this series, but I do understand that I'm disliking something partly because I don't fully understand it.
Yes it is, and I loved all the old incorporation of alien life, our dying sun, quantum physics extrapolations and Odd Reality, but at its heart, the novel reads just like a Fantasy.The apprentice must face a difficult choice, is engaged with wise old men, must suffer the consequences of his heroic and/or compassionate actions, and is thus expelled to make a way into the wide and difficult world carrying a sword and a complex menagerie of companions.Sound familiar?I might have balked at such a blatant use of tropes for an SF novel had it not also been full of characters I truly liked.
It might annoy others, but it felt like some of the most genuine parts of the novel.Lastly, I loved the world-building.
The first volume of The Book of the New Sun, The Shadow of the Torturer, is a traditional picaresque fantasy, in which a young man, going forth to seek his fortune, gains mentors, weapons, magic jewels, and companions along the way.
His scenic descriptions are brief, but vivid, immersing the reader in a world of ancient buildings and haunted landscapes, of torturer’s cells filled with strange device, with fantastic gardens where the dueller’s weapons--the sharp-leaved flowers—grow.One of the novel’s eccentricities is that each of its pages is peppered with obscure latinate nouns—substantives even an old word-hound like myself does not know—but they help to create a context that is once alien and inviting.
5.0 stars.
Along with The Dying Earth by Jack Vance, the book that set the standard for the "science fantasy" epic.
The Book of the New Sun Tetralogy is one of the great achievements in science fiction and is a MUST READ for fans of the genre.
HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!
Winner: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1981)Winner: Britsh Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1982)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1981)Nominee: John W.
Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1981)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1981)Named to Locus list of "All Time" Best Fantasy Novels (#4)
I had no idea what to expect from this book, but I wanted to read outside my normal comfort zone in order to broaden my horizons.
I held back from giving this 5 stars only because there are a lot of philosophical musings and other physical mysteries of the world that went right over my head.
That and the feeling that this book didn't feel completely self-contained, but a continuation of reading the next book in the series is a must.EDITED: After finishing the four book series, I'm upgrading book one to 5 stars.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.For those of you enjoy audiobooks, this is the perfect time to finally read (or to re-read) Gene Wolfe's The Shadow of the Torturer.
Much of the power of this novel comes from the sense that there is world-building and symbolism on a massive scale here, but that explanations and revelations for the reader would just cheapen it and remove the pleasure that comes from the experience of discovery.In addition to being unique in style, The Shadow of the Torturer is a gorgeous piece of work: passionate storytelling (heart-wrenching in places), fascinating insights into nature and the human condition, beautiful prose:Perhaps when night closes our eyes there is less order than we believe.
I can't wait to read on in The Book of the New Sun with Jonathan Davis.

Possibly it was at a time when things were a bit stressful...the '70s were like that.
What I will say is that we have another one of those books that straddles the line between science fiction and fantasy.Severian, when we meet him is an apprentice torturer...that is member of the Guild, "Seekers for Truth and Penitence".
So, he is exiled to the far away city or Thrax to be Lictor.This in many ways is a somewhat existential book with much internal dialogue on our protagonist's part.
I'd say that I can recommend this one very highly and plan to buy the next after I thin out the library book pile a bit.Enjoy.
I can now add Gene Wolf to this list of purveyors of gloom and atmosphere, those soothsayers of the far distant future who grant us a vision of a world where there's no sudden cataclysmic apocalypse, but instead a grim and inevitable decline into stagnation and decay, where the crumbling cities of man are a testament to the glory of a race who's time has seemingly passed.at the recommendation of a couple of friends, I sought out this first volume of Wolf's "Book of the New Sun", an opus spanning across four books that details the travails and travels of Severian, a professional torturer who's task it is to wield justice on behalf of his guild and exercise "excrutiations" and executions in a formal, ceremonial manner.
The Shadow of the Torturer may very well be my favorite fantasy book of all-time if you pinned me down and forced me to give you an answer.
In many ways, The Shadow of the Torturer has everything that I look for in a great read: awesome world-building, post-apocalyptic setting, mysterious and complicated characters, an engaging and interesting plot, and just a really cool protagonist.
But if you feel like reading one of the more impressive monuments of dark fantasy ever imagined, then give Shadow of the Torturer your time.
A friend at work (where people ought to know about such things) tipped me off to Gene Wolf and told me to start here.Gene Wolfe is indeed a literary author: it's clear that significant thought was given to the characters, story arc, linguistic style, and thematic elements before he began writing this four-part story.
Wolfe seldom gives center stage to this high technology / magic, but lets his character explain what he feels is important in his own subjective voice.At first glance the story feels episodic; it's only after reading the entire series that I understand how artfully these episodes are arranged, how much they rely on one another to form a coherent narrative arc through four novels.
(Admittedly mixed with a fair measure of frustration.) Anyway…my point is that for however difficult I may find Wolfe, and however unfriendly to the casual reader he may be, I still find myself drawn to certain of his books even if I may only be getting a pale shadow of what they supposedly offer to the careful reader (of which group I am admittedly not always a member) and my continual sense that the story would have been so much better if he had just given up some of his game playing and written a more straight-forward text.
I also found that on a subsequent read of the book the reader is better armed to pick up those oh-so-casual references that Wolfe makes to important facts or details that only become apparent when you know the full shape of the story to come.
I stumbled over Gene Wolfe and the Book of the New Sun via Neil Gaiman, who was praising it highly. I can definitely see why. The prose is beautiful. Gene Wolfe has a wonderful way with words. It's almost like reading poetry. Not much happens in this first of four books, but it was an easy read, immersive and beautiful. I connected with the narrator almost immediately and can't wait to find out what happens to Severian the Torturer.
3.5 for personal enjoyment, 4.5 for depth of writing and research. While constantly impressed with the references and allusions littered through the story and the resonance of the world Wolfe builds, the book in the end failed to engage my emotions alongside my brain.
What fascinated me most about this was the overall tone of the narration. It was sorrowful and introspective and I loved that. I did feel that Sevarian was a bit too trusting of every single person he met! My only real complaint is that there are hints that he's writing this from someplace and for some reason but we're given no information on that. I'm sure we'll hear about it later but I would have appreciated a bit more info.
I don't even know whether I liked this one or not.The story is weird and the MC's a mess.
From a detailed desription of a building or a landscape the author takes you smack right into an equally exquisitely detailed description of say the technique of a proper "socking" (method of torture not article of clothing) or the correct way to suture a stump.
Perhaps it is because of the author's particular way of writing that the torture scenes described in this book will make one want to empty his stomach's contents.
It's supposed to be one of those either love or hate books.
Video reviewMagnificent worldbuilding and some brilliant reflections on the nature of narrative, symbols, and meaning-making justify the obscure lexicon, baroque style, and slow pace. Know what you're getting into - this is heavy fantasy and will require lots of work on your part to even make sense - but to the right kind of reader, it's the book of a lifetime.
I know I will not be picking up the second volume any time soon (although I do have it) because reading this was such a headache at times that I need a long break, however, despite the bad feelings with the book as a whole it still manages to entice me and the story of Severian is one where I want to see what happens...
I think this was probably one of those books that was so revolutionary at the time that everybody spent thirty years ripping it off and now it seems less original than it really was.Nevertheless, it's a crackin' good book.
There is one part, early in the book, where the main character is looking at a faded old picture in a museum.
Somehow Wolfe manages to convey, in two paragraphs of simple description, that we are looking at a picture of Neil Armstrong walking on the moon.
The character himself has no idea who Armstrong is.
If you read this book and you like it, you will probably have to read the whole series.
I have very strong memories of this book.
The chronicles of Severian (there are four books in this series, I think) were so unlike any kind of fantasy book I'd read that I was really haunted by them, especially the first book.
There are images in it, scenes, that actually live up to that word that is so overused now: "surreal." The setting is a future Earth so far in the future that our civilization isn't even a memory.
I've reread the series a few times over the years and find it the same as always--ethereal, mysterious, and as vividly compelling as any dreamworld could be.
Okay, like many an SF book, this plunges us into a nebulous world not wholly rendered--in a grave yard no less.
Now that's a good start: the protagonist encounters rebels in the graveyard robbin' bones and then goes back to his guild.
The Torturer's Guild, mind.
From here, the book drags like a fucking stone weight around your brain as our would be torturer becomes obssessed with a captive and eventually leaves to find some other destiny.
I got to the end after hundreds of pages and realized nothing really happened, the plot was dead in the water, and I didn't give a fuck about any of the characters.
The End. To stress how slow this book is: when I decided to give it yet another try, I was surprised to find it was under 300 pages.
Now, I'm not saying that every book needs to be wall-to-wall battles, but in a book where the main character dresses like death and carries a wicked-ass sword, you expect there to be a little conflict.
Hell, even in the action scenes that are there, the main character never even uses his sword.
I liked the characters and I loved the world, I just hope in future books something...anything...actually happens.
I tried reading this in paperback a couple of times over the years & it always bored me early on. I thought I'd try it in audio & see if I can get through it since it is a group read. No go. I was alternately bored & horrified. Sick world, boring characters. I made it about 10 chapters, over an hour in. Definitely not for me.That's unfortunate since the alternate group read is Titus Groan which falls into the same category for me.
