https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77287.Independent_People
He never indulges in kindness and expects his family to break their backs to achieve his goal: owning a farmstead and a flock of sheep that are his means towards economic emancipation, towards complete independence.Dogs and cattle, he finds more reliable than people, his own kin included.He distrusts politics, hates the bailiff for whom he worked eighteen years before he became master of his own estate, and mocks those who put their trust in a God he is sure doesn’t exist.Ancient myths and legends are no concerns of his, Bjartur remains skeptical about the supernatural curse that is said to haunt the moors he intends to cultivate and ignores the advice of fellow farmers, swimming against the currents of a modern era that is slowly changing the dynamics of their rural community.Iceland, with its eerie, rugged landscape, its glaciers, glacial rivers with black sand, volcanoes and newly formed lava fields, arises as the mute protagonist at the backdrop of Bjartur’s story.I spent more than half of the book begrudging him the many disgraces that befell his impoverished family.
This is the generalizable subject of the book: the social illusions that we adopt without awareness or, consequently, recourse.Laxness describes a destructive yet self-satisfied Icelandic culture in remarkable and absorbing detail.
Those who survive often leave by taking up the sea, usually never to be heard from again because living in “...a land even more remote, America, which is further than death." This is considered a normal if not inevitable state of affairs for those who are truly independent.The social structure is curiously egalitarian; class distinctions are grounded on wealth not birth.
One suspects the real reason for the ban was that by portraying the Icelandic ideology of independence Laxness was just a little to accurate in describing its American variant.
Everything, of course - if one is proud enough." - Halldór Laxness, The Atom Station, 1948No less than the best book I have read so far in my life.
I haven't read the original so I can't really comment on whether Magnusson's or Thompson's is closer to the spirit of Laxness, but I suspect (or hope) the latter is.
Independent People is an epic tragedy, filled with melancholic despair and great suffering (physical and emotional), but to me the book was not depressing, despite the fact that it did, and still does, make me cry.
Way back when.
My wife and went to our prominent local bookseller over the holidays in 2003.
She asked me if I had read anything by Laxness and I adroitly responded, "who?" She bought something else and the following day I jogged down to the public library.
My face burning with shame I checked this out from the stacks and returned home.
I read such over two days.
Jonsson the sheep farmer is everyman and he's screwed.
Modernity arrives along with a nascent globalization.
Never razor sharp, the farmer does possess a tradition and a rustic skill set.
I loved that.
Far and away the best book about Icelandic sheep farmers I've ever read.
Guðbjartur Jónsson, or Bjartur for short, has spent nearly two decades of his life toiling away for a richer farmer, and his saved up just enough to make a payment on a barren patch of land, which he renames 'Summer houses', or Sumarhúsum.
Bjartur lives in a sod house for most of the book.
There are so oblique and heady references to socialism in the later chapters of the book, but Laxness uses these, among other motifs, as a stand-in for compassion and community, which Bjartur steadfastly rejects.
This story of a man determined to be an independent smallholder raising sheep in the years before the first world war is a great book, for the right reader.
The hero's broken down old nag, twenty-six years in his service, at the end of this novel would nod at Rocinante, if it wasn't so busy slowly cropping the grass.The quixotic notion here is that of the independent man.
Bjartur is as independent as his country can be, dependent as he is on world markets.
In a foreign land and exotic to most, Halldor Laxness beautifully conveys one man's struggle for independence and questions what it means to be truly independent.
Bjartur, Independent People's protagonist, was born into servitude and breaks free the shackles of debt only to become enslaved by sheep, the harsh Icelandic climate, and to a lesser degree the supernatural world and politics.
However, Bjartur is not an amiable man and Halldor Laxness does not try to make Bjartur a likable protagonist.
Bjartur's struggle for independence through his battles with nature is contrasted with the encroaching modernity that is slowly infiltrating Iceland.
Sheep sagaThe power of Laxness's writing allows the reader to become truly immersed in the smells, sights and sounds of the world he has created and, for me at least, the smells seemed to predominate, the smell of damp wool especially. An amazing feat.
And soon the day dawns when one finds oneself at the mercy of the reality one has created.There is a subtle beauty in this text - an expansive desolation that plays as canvas to Laxness' protagonist Bjartur of Summerhouses creation of an independent life.
Told in the early years of the 20th century on the hard-scrabble tundra of rural Iceland, the narrative follows the course of this stubborn Bjartur and his quixotic life-long quest for complete independence, come what may.An independent man thinks only of himself and lets others do as they please.Laxness surrounds Bjartur with a panoply of well imagined characters.
It took me a little to do this thing with Independent People.
500 pages of itsy bitsy print: it requires a monogamous, long term commitment.’ But’, Brad Leithauser enthuses in the foreword,’ this is the book of my life.
Because, in fact, in amidst all those Icelandic sheep, there was also a cow.
30 cups a day and counting.Independent People is the Icelandic version of a family saga.
More than anything, its a book about Iceland, an enigmatic, little known, very cold North European and climatically inhospitable country with a population of scarcely 300,000, coming into its own at the turn of the 20tieth century.Extremely rewarding read.
Like World War Z: An Oral History of the Zombie War is not just enough zombie story, but also a well written book; so too Independent People by Halldor Laxness is not just another book about Icelandic sheep crofters and separates itself from that crowded genre of literature by the quality of writing.The Nobel laureate from Reykjavik tells an engrossing and damn near hypnotic story about poor Icelandic farmers.
this is about a sheep crofter in early twentieth century rural Iceland.And it’s a good book, masterfully written and crafted to poetically describe a time and place.
Do you drown yourself in bucolic meanderings, flee from the slightest turn of horrors wreaked by the elements in all their gorgeous lashes against the alive, only take the idealized pieces of a single collective people of epic and landscape and curious traditions and leave the rest as not worth your readerly time?
You will love, and you will hate, and at the end you will be left with the accumulation of this one story of a man, an independent man, and it is for you to decide whether to cry on his shoulder or tear him to pieces with your teeth.
-- Sooner or later, all sheep get worms.-- And this, from a deathbed:"There are two things I want to ask you to remember when you've gone," she said, the wrinkled old face trembling much more than usual.
In Bjartur's hovel, with diminishing children, and a dog and a cat, she remains.When the bitch had gone, the cat would spring down on the old woman's bed and, after washing himself with meticulous care, would lie down to sleep with his head across his hind legs.
It is strange what a great liking cats have for old people.
I've never asked myself this question seriously before reading this novel, although I've always tried to preserve my freedom by sticking to a few personal guidelines: I avoid becoming a working slave; I can't keep my mouth shut when I observe injustice or stupidity; I can't keep my head down to gain favors; I can't stand being tied to a person just out of politeness.In my view, being independent means doing what you want to the farthest extent without obeying, humiliating yourself or giving up on your principles.
Halldor Laxness (1902-1998) received the 1955 Nobel Prize for Literature and the only Icelandic author who has won this prestigious price.The story revolves around a man called Bjartur of Summerhouses who fights for the independence (not being beholden to any man) of the sheep farmers in his community.
Bjartur here just left his job for 18-years as a sheep farmer and decides to marry Rosa and vowed that they will leave independently.
Perhaps, though, I'm still caught in that after-book glow, figuring out just whether or not my love for this book will condense itself into sentences with letters and words and commas and periods.
It isn't often I say that I love books, though I often admit that I love reading.
No, to actually love a book - to feel that kind of connection to the pages - is rare for me.
I love its writing, its compassion, its characters, its sadness, its connections to humanity.
I love this book.
I love this book.
Gostei um pouco menos da última parte, mais centrada em questões sociais e políticas, mas no conjunto é uma excelente história, um pouco chocante para a nossa mentalidade urbana e actual mas contada duma forma por vezes quase mágica e que se torna viciante.A tradução, feita directamente do islandês, parece-me boa, embora por vezes tenha estranhado as escolhas feitas relativamente aos tempos verbais, mas pode ser opção do escritor e característico da língua islandesa, que me é totalmente estranha (só sei que os apelidos são formado a partir do nome do pai, terminando os das mulheres em dóttir, que significa "filha" e os dos homens em son, que significa "filho", e que portanto variam de geração para geração, ao contrário do que acontece em Portugal e na maioria dos países ocidentais).
She contrasts this, of course, with the hard life of being a bourgeois employer, where all your money goes on paying wages and one cannot [the horror!] afford that dress you’ve had your eye on for a while – as the capitalist villains of the piece, the more I thought about it the more I realised that Bjartur himself could be called a capitalist, just not in the way that we tend to understand that term these days.When someone says capitalist we [or certainly I] tend to imagine someone rich, with at least one thriving business, which is run on the toil of hired workers.
Written as a pair with  Pericles Reading Smiley on the back cover of this book:‘I can’t imagine any greater delight than coming to Independent People for the first time’ Really? I mean, REALLY????? Better than sex? Chocolate icecream??? What sort of life has Smiley lived that makes her say that. I couldn’t help thinking of this exchange on the comments of my Harry Potter review:Brook: "I hav read every single book 14 times and i read an average of 200 books per year and have never read a better
Reading Smiley on the back cover of this book:‘I can’t imagine any greater delight than coming to Independent People for the first time’ Really?
I couldn’t help thinking of this exchange on the comments of my Harry Potter review:Brook: "I hav read every single book 14 times and i read an average of 200 books per year and have never read a better written book."Manny: "Hey, talk about a run of bad luck!
My commiserations."And how on earth, of all the words to use of this book could you come up with ‘delight’?
Conversation with Manny last week:For the rest, here: http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
4.5 stars - This was a really fantastic book to finish off the year. This book is beautiful and heartbreaking and my writing skills could never do it justice. If you are at all interested in Iceland and Scandinavian lit this is a must read. It is a slow burn and takes some patience. It is a book I would like to revisit at least parts of in the future. I will be thinking about these characters and what it really means to be an independent person for a long time.
Despite the reviews below, this book is not about sheep.
It is also about how one's endless struggle to be self-sufficient can make one bitter, senseless, hypocritical and cold.This book is not about sheep at all.
Main character Bjartur is preoccupied with sheep because being a sheep farmer is what helps him remain self-sufficient and independent.
He defines himself as an independent man who has worked off all his debts to have a small farmhouse and a flock of sheep.Laxness' writing is incredibly detailed, making this Icelandic saga-styled novel a bit arduous to read at times; but all the same, it is this detail is what makes the story so rich.
Bjartur's drive for independence affects his entire life and family.
It's a hard scrabble life.The prose is rich and deep.
The richness of the prose is the reward.
The story of Bjartur and his family roles out in an interesting pattern.
Bjartur works for 18 years in order to purchase a tract of land.
For the next (approx.) 25 years, we read his story of how he works to keep this land and thrive.
I would give the second book a read to find out how Bjartur's family endures but the rest of the series has not been translated, it seems.
In that space, a version of myself was free to move among places and personages the distinguishing features of which were the feelings they caused to arise in me rather than their seeming appearance, much less their possible resemblance to places or persons in the world where I sat reading.And yet, true to form, the back-cover blurb of that same edition of Tamarisk Row claims, as its punchline, that the book offers “a truly original view of mid-twentieth century Australia”, as if that external (for want of a better word) “cultural” concern were its primary focus.
I daydreamed together with her about him (“him, him, him” to quote her), the charming stranger that put a mark on her imagination so.You don’t just read this book, you feel everything that’s written inside with all your senses.
"The poems that touched her heart most, suffusing her with exalted emotion, so that she felt she could gather everything to her, were those which tell of the sorrow that wakes in the heart whose dreams have not been fulfilled, and of the beauty of that sorrow."
This book is about the most authentic of all worlds there is and it speaks about the sorrow felt when the most ardent dreams are not fullfilled.
You will grow bored with talk of worms and sheep, although it was informative to read that tobacco was once used to purge sheep of parasites.The principal character the sheep farmer Guðbjartur Jónsson, aka Bjartur of "Summerhouses' is a stubborn man, seemingly unfeeling and at times simple and brutish, and emotionally hardened in his denial to change from his ideals.
The novel ends during the period of strikes, mutinies, street demonstrations leading to the fall of autocracy -the fall of Tsar Nicholas II while Bjartur finds himself more destitute than when he started at the beginning.
What makes Halldór Laxness’s writing looks so terrific is his ability to create and manage every plainspoken and quotidian detail of domestic life feel epic.
The overall feeling is of sorrow, darkness and solitude — as if you are caught in the shack on the beach and all you can hear outside is the raging ocean waves.
But when ‘o-my-god-moment’ comes, you can feel the epicness—as it happens on every page.
If any book can whip your soul back like a wind off the sea, this is it.Ah. The humour and the tragedy.
PS: Read it during my trip to Iceland.
What are the odds of stumbling upon an almost 500-page, densely woven, Icelandic novel from the 1940s, and further, what are the odds that it would be so incredible?
I absolutely loved this story of stubborn sheep farmer Bjartur of Summerhouses and the myriad villagers and family members who surround him (and whom he spends most of his life ignoring, scorning, or resenting).
Other reviews I've seen of "Independent People" say it is really about sheep; I disagree.
More than anything else, this novel illustrates the cruelty humans inflict on one another--both willingly and unwillingly--and the love that can surprise and ultimately redeem even the proudest of hearts.
After reading this, I got a bit of an understanding about the country, but I felt overall, I would declare that this novel was just pretty good.
For instance, you would sometimes see something like this: "Bjartur: *insert line*" There were also moments where I would lose track of who was saying what and I would need to go back and read over what was being said.
This novel requires a great deal of commitment and there will be moments where you may need to read over things before it makes sense.
Magistral e arrebatador. Um dos maiores livros que eu já li. Um retrato da Islândia rural do início do século e a dura luta pela existência de um homem que tudo faz para ser independente, no meio de uma realidade que não controla, não entende e o esmaga. Obrigatório.
Paisagem islandesa (Fotografia de David Nice)“Gente Independente” é um romance escrito pelo islandês Halldór Hallness laureado com o Nobel da Literatura em 1955.Um livro que narra a vida de Bjartur, um pobre agricultor islandês que tem o desejo obsessivo de manter a sua independência financeira e sentimental, de forma a nunca criar laços de afeição ou afinidades, que entravem a sua obstinação e os seus objectivos, assentes num comportamento irredutível e numa fé inquebrável.
