https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1397224.Carson_of_Venus
Most people know this series as the inferior clone to the John Carter of Mars body of work and, as accurate as that assessment is, the stories have their own charm.
One knows, as surely as Dejah Thoris is the obsession of John Carter, that the pulchritudinous Duare will be the obsession of Carson Napier.
It follows up on the open-ended ending of Lost on Venus by offering Carson and Duare the full globe of the planet as potential homes.
Unlike John Carter, Carson is not a superior swordsman.
This was wonderful, in many ways this is perhaps the best entry yet in the Amtor series! Although it builds slowly, “Carson of Venus” actually rises to a high rarely seen in Burroughs' work outside of the early Barsoom books.  Written after a 5 year gap, this entry differs in many ways from the first two entries. Little is wasted and human villainy drives the story. A lot of good solid plot is squeezed into this, and the meandering world-building of the second book is laid aside in favor of sus
Although it builds slowly, “Carson of Venus” actually rises to a high rarely seen in Burroughs' work outside of the early Barsoom books.
Most Nazi-inspired villains, on Earth or elsewhere, are very tiresome as it has become one of the most overused tropes in fiction, but in 1938 it was fresh and it feels that way in the story.
“Carson of Venus” brings back the royal obligation that weighed so heavily on Duare in the first book, and entwines it in the “Murphy's Law” blend that so successfully carries Burroughs' best adventures through.
This is the first of Burrough's Venus series that I have read. It is clearly written for young readers. The Author does a very good job of keeping it interesting and moving compared to the John Carter books. There is less reliance on coincidence and more focus on the hero responding to mistakes. It makes the story feel more real. Ah, if Venus and Mars were as he presented them...
Complications arise as the traitorous ruler of Sanara sends Carson on a secret mission to the rival city of Amlot, supposedly on a vital mission but in reality to get him out of the way so that he can claim the lovely Duare.Edgar Rice Burroughs satirizes the Nazis (rearrange the letters in 'Zani') in this story, which was published in the late 30s.
Naturally, the story ends with Carson and Duare separated once again, but there is only one book left in this series, so I'm sure they'll work things out soon.
(My favorite was the giant 3 eyed fish that uses its third eye like a periscope.)This one is unique in that Carson is searching for a safe place to call home with his beloved partner.
It's interesting that the previous book ended with them setting out to search for Duare's home kingdom of Vepaja, but in this one he actually had to rescue her from Vepaja.
It's the same sort of adventure that I love about all Edgar Rice Burroughs books.The ending was a little abrupt for me.
If you like Edgar Rice Burroughs you'll certainly like this.
If you've read the previous books in Edgar Rice Burroughs' Venus series, then it's more of the same.
The main part of the story has Carson on a secret mission from Sanara to infiltrate the city of Amlot and the Zani and deposing their leader Malthu Mephis, and then back to Sanara to rescue the ever in peril Duare, first from the advances of the nefarious ruler of Sanara and then from her home city of Vepaja.
All full of the usual Edgar Rice Burroughs stuff.
If you're a fan of the vintage pulp interplanetary action adventure stories, then I'd recommend this.
I love stories where there is a charismatic and brave hero who needs to rescue a princess to win the fair damsels heart. This is all this book really is. The girl gets kidnapped, a lot, and Carson saves her.  If you dig the archetype then you should read it, if not, I'd not waist my time on old science fiction. (This is the same thing that I wrote for the last addition to the series because the next book was really just more of the same. Same hero, same princess, she gets kidnapped, and he save
I love stories where there is a charismatic and brave hero who needs to rescue a princess to win the fair damsels heart. This is all this book really is. The girl gets kidnapped, a lot, and Carson saves her. 	If you dig the archetype then you should read it, if not, I'd not waist my time on old science fiction. (This is the same thing that I wrote for the last addition to the series because the next book was really just more of the same. Same hero, same princess, she gets kidnapped, and he saves her.)
Lots of fun. Carson has to rescue his heroine a lot, but she is also a competent girl who gets to fly the plane and be involved in the adventures unlike Dejah Thoris in the Barsoom series who, after the first book, basically ends up being kidnapped and rescued a lot, and calling the hero 'my chieftain!'
1939 Retro Hugo Nominee for Best NovelNot as good as other novels I've read by Burroughs.
I read this many decades ago.
I think I was lured by the front page picture, which is not the one on the cover for this review.
I remember there were Amazon women and submissive wimpy men in one part.
I thought it might be along the line of Conan the Barbarian in space or something like that.
It was ok, but it was not a story that gripped me.
Obviously, pulp sci-fi/fantasy which is fine if you like this sort of thing.
There are many people that like such escapism but it was not for me and I never followed the series after reading this.
In this third Venus novel, Carson Napier and his beloved Duare, Princess of Vepaja, are seeking a place to live - they have had to leave it is taboo for anyone to speak to a princess, let alone love her. So they are off, with bad folks seeking to kill Carson and all kinds of fast-paced ERB adventures.
Más flojo que los dos anteriores. Durante la lectura no he sentido la aventura, me ha hecho bostezar más de una vez. Se pierde en intentar engañar y trabajar en lo que le sale, en vez de correr, saltar, volar y pelear.
I thought I might enjoy Burroughs, but his ridiculous use of absurdly incoherent persons and place names was just too distracting.
Pure escapist fantasy for light reading; takes place on Venus with three plot lines: (1) Amazon society where men are obsequious servants of women, (2) Nazi-like society with Hitler character named "Mephis" and (3) pirate adventure on the high seas.
Not to be taken seriously; for teen-age boys mostly.
I read this as a teen-age boy and enjoyed it, but as an old man now this genre is weak and boring stuff.
The Venus series was a vehicle for Burroughs' use of satire and commentary on current events (in the 1930s).
For real excitement and adventure try the Pellcucidar series.
read between summer 1970 & summer 1974
With the Venus series, which was written later (the last series that he started/finished, if I recall), he's getting into the "cashing checks" phase of writing.
Carson of Venus continues the adventures of Carson Napier, and still has him expressing undying love for a beautiful princess that he keeps rescuing and running into.
In the third installment, we at least get a bit of variety, with a new female character - who he's not trying to mount - who has some sense of her own.Going back through these, I realize that Burroughs keeps inserting new characters who become best of friends, or trusted allies, or brothers, and then just drops them.
Another rip-roaring pulp adventure from the master of the genre.
Carter and Duare get caught up in a revolution as a weird cult try and take over a neighbouring city.
Carter goes undercover and ends up working in a prison where he stumbles upon Duare's father in captivity.
I much preferred this to the last installment as apart from his spacecraft, there's less science and more fighting/adventure.
The Venus series as a whole feels like a watered down version of his Barsoom chronicles - the characters and stories all less iconic, and the creatures less inventive but still fun.The ending of this one is incredibly rushed, but the rest of it is pretty good.
The most interesting thing about this book is that it is a very obvious political satire about the Nazis and Hitler (Zanis and Mephis in the book).
Carson has to go undercover and pass as a Zani, so this is a kind of spy thriller.Before these things happen, there is a passage with amazons and their effeminate men which reminded me of the similar, rather more offensive section of Tarzan and the Ant Men, which I read in translation long ago.
(Although one could say that Duare is a fairly competent heroine, in spite of her cultural baggage.)The ending where Carson has to once again rescue his princess is rather rushed and sloppy.
True to form, Burroughs sticks to his standard He-Man on an errant journey rescuing a beautiful woman who turns out to be the princess of her people shtick.
It works well and for a purely fun series of adventures it is hugely enjoyable.
One of the many aspects of this book I found to be quite fun was his formation of language of the native peoples of Venus.As I mentioned before, this story is quite formulaic.
If you are one who prefers your science fiction/adventure to be a bit deeper this series is not for you.
But for a rip-romping adventure book this is an excellent choice.
This book started much like the last in the series: Carson just cannot seem to keep Duare in his company.
Perils abound, and Duare keeps getting herself captured and made a slave, snore.
After about a third of the book my interest was piqed.
Carson gets sent on a one way mission to the Zanis capital.
Naturally he does what he always does and makes the best of any situation.
Befriending the right people he gets commissioned as an officer in the Zanis ranks.
So essential he becomes a spy that is always on the verge of being discovered.
Carson was trying to fly a rocket ship to Mars, but he landed on Venus instead.
Those planets are in different directions!
I'm no astronavigator, but I feel like I'd know whether I was going closer to the sun or farther away.Once he got there, he had adventures that are almost indistinguishable from what you'd get if you were running around in the jungle in an African adventure of the day.
Carson is constantly dealing with the backwards tribes and so forth.I wasn't into it.
I kept wishing I was just reading a Tarzan story instead.On the bright side, though, I've read all the novels nominated for Retro Hugos this year!
The stories of Carson Napier's adventures on Earth's sister planet are essentially ERB engaging in self-parody of the superior Barsoom stories. These stories are not high art, or even good sci-fi/fantasy; but ERB's Venus stories are fairly good yarns with exotic Venusian locales, fantastic beasts, flamboyant damsels, dastardly villains, and cliff-hanging adventures in which the hero gets the girl and the bad guy meets his (or her) just deserts.[See, even I can engage in self-parody - see my John Carter story reviews.]
Can't remember much of my initial impression on reading this in 1965. Back then, it seemed that all that mattered to me was that it was Edgar Rice Burroughs. I loved the cover and I do remember buying it in the book department at Carson Pirie Scott in Evergreen Plaza in Chicago. On rereading it in 2018, I'm pretty disappointed. The parade of wacky city-states and the constant pattern of capture/escape is getting predictable. In this one, ERB seems more focused on political parody than creating suspenseful adventures.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5--Below information added approximately a year after original reading--I do not know how to justify pulp science fiction. I cannot identify its merits. Burrough's contribution to literature seems to be that he sent the princess-saving-hero to another planet. Carson of Venus is one of the dime novels of the early science fiction era.
I picked this up at a garage sale where somebody was selling a number of old classics. I figured I shouldn't let this one go! Recognizing the name from Tarzan, and seeing that it was written in the 1930's like some other books I've really enjoyed, I decided to give it a go. After looking it up, I realize now that it's part of a longer series, but I'd already gotten a few chapters into it before looking it up. It can stand alone, it seems.
A real disappointment. I was trying to read an old paperback edition of this with tiny print, and just gave up after about 65 pages due to both eyestrain and boredom. Carson Napier just flies around Venus (or Amtor) in his airship and meets various people and gets involved in minor situations before moving on to the next. The book doesn't seem to have a real plot (yet). Maybe if I found a version of this with bigger print I'd be more willing to continue.
The Amtor (Venus)series is my second favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
Simpática aventura espacial, a la antigua usanza, imaginativa, ligera, dinámica y con un héroe astuto, valiente y siempre victorioso. Nada muy trascendental pero entretenido. Siendo la tercera historia de una serie que no leí, seguro que me perdí el hilo, pero es factible leerla sola. Referencias satíricas a los Nazis y su dictadura, por supuesto en otro planeta.
Third book in the series. As before, coincidences and lucky breaks abound -- ERB apparently wrote quickly and without much plotting -- but this is a fun read, and despite his haste he knows when to draw a scene out and when to compress a day's action into a paragraph if the details wouldn't advance the story.
