https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12724.Drawing_Down_the_Moon
There's a lot of fascinating history in this book, but it's much more of a snapshot of 1979 Pagan America and England, plus a tiny bit of updating for the new edition.
Many of the groups Adler profiled originally have dwindled or died entirely, and several groups and movements I know were active in '86 are ignored completely.
Might Adler have leaned toward the psychological interpretation even when her interviewees didn't espouse it?
This is an important book in the history of modern Western Paganism, and I respect it for that, but I don't consider it the indespensible read it might have been when it was first published in 1979.
I had heard about this for many years but never actually took the time to read it and boy do I feel silly now after completing it.
After reading this I truly feel proud to call myself Neo-Pagan as I feel a great deal of what I believe in was examined and put into real context in some shape or form throughout the text, most surprisingly that despite what I previously believed a very large group Neo-Pagans share the same views of technology (pro opposed to con) as I do and simply seek to strike a balance between the natural and artificial.
She's made an attempt in this edition to catch up on bigger trends, like internet groups and the growing number of solitaries, but I'm hoping that some day she does a real rewrite, to bring this ambitious work truly up to date.The style here is journalistic and business-like.
There's a little personal history as well.This isn't a book that's likely to help you find your path, and really there are enough books attempting that already.
And it does so, better than any book or other reference I've yet found.
It's important to get the most currently updated version. I found the references section to be one of the most useful. It's not a "how to" book, or a B.O.S, it's more of a social study of paganism, the culture, history, beliefs, etc... It's definitely a worthwhile read, but it can be a difficult read. There is a lot of useful information to be found in it. As I said before, definitely get the most updated version you can find.
Since Gerald Gardner birth the modern witchcraft revival, the Witch Craft Pagan community has grown by leaps and bounds.
The most popular facet of the Pagan movement is the growth of Wicca, Gerald’s child.
In the beginning Wicca centered around the God and Goddess and one had to be initiated into a coven in order to practice.
In terms of participation Wicca and Paganism have become les coven centered and more festival and group oriented.
The book not only covers the current trends in Wicca but also covers the history of witches and how people perceive them.
What strikes me most is how the tone of the book feels so much more personal than it did when I was 22.
It's not an academic tome (though the research is thorough, the biases are clearly and reflexively pointed out and Adler goes to great trouble to present alternative points of view).
If I feel she's sometimes a little kinder than she needs to be, that's probably my own bias showing through.
Sadly, Margot Adler died in 2014.
The table I'll need for my Great Heavenly Dinner Party (of people I wish I'd met when they were alive) keeps getting bigger and bigger.
This gets 5 stars for influence.A couple of years prior to this read I had a spontaneous spiritual emergency as I came out of a meditation sitting in the sand at Alki Beach in Seattle.I was familiar by this time with Starhawk and Reclaiming and had met people at the pagan bookstores and had taken a class or two with some pagans.This book was a matter of fact reading about who's who in the pagan subculture, some history and an introduction to paganism in general.
Adler's "Drawing Down the Moon" is a fantastic anthropological overview of Neo-pagan religions in the United States since the 1970s. Written in a very engaging and approachable fashion, the prose is simple yet sufficient. Adler is able to remain objective whilst analyzing various aspects of the Craft and other pagan traditions despite being involved with them herself. She also frequently acknowledges where the study, conclusions, or data may be lacking finesse. Overall, a monumental piece of work in Pagan Studies and a fascinating read, highly recommend to anyone with any interest in the subject of Neo-paganism and earth-based religions.
This kinda felt like reading an NPR episode, which is fitting because Adler was a host.
Sometimes the book dragged, but there were some really intriguing parts of the book, I particularly liked Adler's reflections, and the reflections and opinions of Devlin.
This edition allows the reader to see where Adler views the craft in 2006, compared to where it was in earlier editions.
I would say this is required reading, as it's a good reflection of the craft and where it was at a certain point in time.
An excellent look at alternative spiritual paths in contemporary America that are inspired by ancient pagan practices.
I liked this book because it really gave a clear picture of different pagan groups to help the mainstream gain understanding. I wonder though how much has changed since its publication....
A relatively casual participant-observer investigation into neo-paganism and new age spirituality in the Western world.
First written in the late 1970s, republished twice with updates.
I read the 2006 updated version.
I think it was very helpful in understanding how neo-pagans and Wiccans conceptualized themselves, their spiritualities and histories at the times this book was written and updated.
But I think that is perhaps where the usefulness ends, as I think Adler never successfully leaves the perspective of her participant status, nor her whiteness.I would definitely recommend picking it up if this is a topic you're interested in (it is a seminal text) and also just to read an AMAZING, FANTASTIC, STUNNING long form interview with a socialist, Irish republican witch.
I also enjoyed the section iterating through the various Traditions and learned of more pagan traditions such as the 1734 trad, various Dianic cults, & NROOGD.I share some of the sentiments expressed by the various people discussed in this book, that our ecological problems are mainly the result of an unhealthy religious worldview, relating back to my thoughts on monotheism and dualistic thought introduced by the Zoroastrians.I was kind of shocked that OBOD and other forms of Druidism weren’t mentioned anywhere.
I read attentively all the parts that related to Isaac because I’m a bonewits fan-boy.Edward Fitch was mentioned throughout the entire book which is kind of cool because he is active in our local pagan community.
This was a good overview of modern paganism, I think, but I am using the term modern relatively.
I feel like as highly as this book was recommended, there really needs to be something similar done that truly is modern, not from decades ago.
That was kind of a bummer, and really only sort of enforced the idea that people of color aren't involved.
That just sort of left a sour taste in my mouth.I'd say this work was pretty solid.
But it just sort of left me disappointed.
I think I wanted more out of this.
Maybe not the best book if you are completely new to the Wicca, Pagan movement.
Although a thorough investigation into the world of Pagans in America, the book can be hard to read and hard to keep up with.
As far as I understand this is one of the most detailed accounts of the start and history of Pagans and Wiccans in America and it does make an excellent reference book.
Maybe I was expecting to get a clearer vision of what it means to be Pagan, but if the book is any indication, it is a very confusing world and for those looking to get a start into it, there are probably better books, if maybe somewhat more specific to one current of thought.
Oh my god, I loved this book.
I learned so much, it opened my eyes and made me feel closer to my Path than ever before.
This is something everyone interested in Paganism/Witchcraft or knows someone who is and is unsure of what that other person really means.
The unity of disunity is what makes the Craft such a lovely thing, which was emphasized in this book- everyone is different and Paganism gets that, it understands and celebrates those things that make you unique.
Throughout this book, it shows the Republicans, Democrats, Radical Feminists, Radical Faeries, Priest/esses and Computer Technicians who are on the Path.
This is a wonderful book.
The writing was inspired, the reading was easy, and the whole was a joy.It was truly amazing to follow the development of this spiritual and religious movement through its many phases, to see so many different sides of it and the people who live it and give it life.
There is much here for pondering, and though the revised edition was published in 1987, the issues and ideas raised are certainly as important, if not more so (with regards to ecology and diversity in particular) now.Margot Adler does a fantastic job of objectively studying, questioning, and analyzing her subject, while bringing the subjective warmth of her own experience to the book.
A must read for anyone interested in modern spirituality.
This book should be mandatory when starting on this Pagan path! I had the honor of meeting Margot a few weeks before her death and I didn't know who she was at the time. She was a wonderful, insightful and magical woman though and I immediately went out and got this book. She goes through many of her personal choices and her history with nature based religion. However, the information doesn't end there! She really details the different branches of this religion and has an entire section of resources! This is absolutely a must read for Pagans!
I really liked that this was written by a journalist. I normally can't take reading new age-y stuff because I feel like it's propaganda. This book takes a truly critical account of Paganism in America during the 70's and 80's. The best part is Margot Adler was not an outsider to the world of Paganism, personal accounts about her own experiences make for a more interesting read. I'd love an updated version!
Not only is the book informative and easy to read, it's personable like she was. Drawing Down The Moon encompasses a huge variety of spiritual paths & traditions. Its writing is formed by not only book-knowledge but also personal experience and interviews with people closely associated with each path. I re-read it time and time again. Note: The 2007 version is the most revised.-May Margot Adler's memory ever be for a blessing. Merry meet, merry part, and [until we] merry meet again.
coming from a christian background, i was amazed at the different categories of alternative spiritualities in this book. was that pc enough? anyways..where else would i learn about a group of men called "radical faeries"!
This is a great book and a must read for all Pagans and Pagan wannabes. Even if you have been a Pagan for years this book will teach you something. Very well done by a very respected member of the Mainstream media and Pagan communities.
Interesting but pretty vanilla coverage of the topic. It's not going to change your mind if you are pro or con-Wicca. It's not a tell all and is somewhat sympathetic. I read this in the 90's. Margot Adler is an NPR correspondent.
This was actually a re-read for me--I first read it maybe 20 years ago, when I had a much different perspective. Because this edition dates to the mid-80s, it is something of a historical document, but still very informative.
A starter book for the young among us, a book you learn can be used in many different ways by many different people. I would recommend that it sits on your book.
Excellent history of the pagan movement in America through the early 1980s. While Wicca receives a sizable portion of the book, other paths are well-represented.
Great resource on the history of modern Wicca.
This is a wonderful book that I would recommend any Wiccan read of any level.
A massive overview of alternative religions, particularly Neopagans, in the USA. Takes you into corners of the American tapestry that you never knew existed.
It had an interesting discussion of how neo-pagans view themselves, the differences between animism, pantheism, and polytheism, and how belief comes into play in a religion that is mostly defined by ritual.
The specific discussion of feminist Wicca is also pretty lengthy and it probably could have been diffused through other chapters and cut back.
She also let her own political views color her judgments in some areas while making neo-pagans (mostly Wiccans) look pretty amateurish in their rituals at first.
If you're interested specifically in Wicca and its history then this is probably a good book to start with.
