https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78418.The_Reptile_Room
These are fast reads, and I'm really invested in the overarching story, but I know I would've liked these so much more as a kid!
But I'm finding myself frustrated with some aspects, like the communication failures between the kids and the adults, and the constant defining of words, which is sometimes really fun, but at other times just feels patronizing.Overall, though, I am enjoying these, I'm definitely hooked into the story, and I already care way too much about the fate of the orphans, so I will continue reading my way through this series!
*I'm not going to rate this, because I've already read this book & stand by my first rating of it. Even though I've read this series before & I know how unfortunate this story is, it was hard to remember all the details & everything the Baudelaire orphans go through. It seems that every time they're shown a glimmer of hope, it's taken away from them. The relationship between the siblings is incredibly beautiful. They make an unstoppable team & they each pull their weight when needed.
While re-reading this series my main question is why the hell is an incompetent banker the only adult helping these children. Like where are the police or social workers????
After countless shenanigans, the children are finally whisked away from Count Olaf and Mr. Poe delivers them to Dr. Montgomery a.k.a. Uncle Monty.
Uncle Monty seems like a kind and safe person.
The children like him and it seems they are finally safe to enjoy some coconut cream cake and an occasional evening movie.
Klaus is instructed to read books on reptiles, Sunny bites rope, and Violet works on traps that they need for the expedition.
Everything spins out of control again as the children try to convince the others that Count Olaf is up to his old schemes again.
As the good little fan of Lemony Snicket I am, I've decided to reread THEM ALL because I'm watching the Netflix show.
And by "good little fan" here I mean "a rabidly obsessed grape who is flailing unnaturally enthusiastically at all hours because loves this series so much."So this is a reread!
it starts of so lovely!
The Baudelaires FINALLY get a nice uncle who makes them coconut cake (#winning) and encourages them in their interests and loves them and -- THEN IT ALL GETS BRUTALLY SNATCHED AWAY.THANKS SNICKET.But I guess we were warned.(I freaking love this series omg.)(And FYI the show is amazing so far.)
In this book though the action is still largely believable and the world recognizably 'real' - only the bizarre reptiles referred to in the reptile room take us toward make-believe, and only Sunny's contribution in 'biting rope into shorter lengths' takes us toward cartoony.This is then, a well written and entertaining book that establishes a formula LS proceeds to beat to death every book hereafter (at least as far as we've read).
BUT I LOVE THIS BOOK.The Bad Beginning is so great, but it is only a fraction of the level of Varied, Full Detail this series will reach.
AND YET IS STILL NOT QUITE AS GREAT AS THE SERIES BECOMES.
Which is why my rating for this book is like, a 4.75, technically speaking, or something ridiculous like that.
#Priorities, people.---------oh my GOD i love this series so much.so much so much so much so much so much so MUCH.what a sequel, am i right?
if you think about it this is one of the more important books of the series.anyway.
I love this book a lot more than the first one. I think the first book is just introduction to characters, and this one Violet especially begins to establish herself as a character which I LOVE. Also, this one remains one of the most upsetting. I'm excited to see some of these moments play out in the show (which we can now watch?? Oh my god??) because I think they have the potential to be really fun to see on screen. Onto book 3!
I liked this book better than the first just because I loved how Uncle Monty was with the kids. Uncle Monty was a great character too. But alas . . . And I adored Sunny's relationship with the Incredibly Deadly Viper! The end was sad of course!
Una notable mejora respecto al primero.En La habitación de los reptiles (¡que por fin se están publicando en español de nuevo!) podemos encontrar aparte de una edición preciosa y que te dan ganas de abrazar, una historia más compleja que la primera parte de esta saga.Mi mayor queja respecto a la primera entrega fue que los conflictos sucedían demasiado rápido, que no apenas había tensión dramática y que el mundo se quedaba sin definir.
Respecto al Conde Olaf y su personaje en este libro la verdad que tampoco tengo queja, estaba perfectamente explicado y todo lo relacionado con su trama se me ha hecho divertido.Respecto a los jóvenes huérfanos me ha gustado saber más detalles sobre su vida, y que Sunny haya cobrado un poco más de protagonismo.
VIDEORECENSIONE:https://youtu.be/GHxST4NWVD0"La morte di una persona casa è una strana cosa. Noi tutti sappiamo che il nostro tempo in questo mondo è limitato, e che alla fine ci ritroveremo tutti sotto un lenzuolo per non rialzarci più. E tuttavia è sempre una sorpresa quando succede a qualcuno che conosciamo. È come quando saliamo le scale al buio per andare a casa e pensiamo che ci sia un altro gradino, e invece non c'è. Il piede ricade pesantemente nell'aria, e c'è un momento di spiacevole sorpresa in cui cerchiamo di modificare la nostra idea delle cose."
I really love the creative simplicity of these books. Not only with the language but the locations and the occupations and the divide of good and evil. I love how each character has a single identifiable trait and that’s enough. I just, I’m really happy reading these books. They’re clever and charming and warp a boring world into one of description; where a name can tell you just about everything you need to know.
Then Count Olaf appears and the same charade from the first book is repeated and it’s over.
I guess good for the kids that they wound up, however temporarily, with a nice relative after the misery of staying with Count Olaf but unfortunately pleasant things aren’t in the least bit interesting to read (that’s why I can’t abide Alexander McCall Smith’s books or that abominable Lake Wobegon crap)!
I liked that the series still has an edge to it (by children’s books standards) with the fate of Uncle Monty, the book is well-written and Count Olaf remains an interesting character.
It's a cool, cloudy gray grim day...It's 25th January.. well..it reminds me with the  event  that triggered all the Series of Unfortunate Events, that increased for many of us lately...One of them, I read this book now in ebook format.. since all the book stores increased the prices cause of foreign currency crisis.. The book store that used to give us huge discounts as source of happiness for many changed its policy dramatically.. and other one closed all branches in my city...Well, as I said i
event
that triggered all the Series of Unfortunate Events, that increased for many of us lately...One of them, I read this book now in ebook format..
since all the book stores increased the prices cause of foreign currency crisis..
The book store that used to give us huge discounts as source of happiness for many changed its policy dramatically..
and other one closed all branches in my city...Well, as I said in book one's review, 
"Who sees the Unfortunate Events of others feel solace about his own Unfortunates"
, let's back to the Baudelaire's Series of Unfortunate Events...
Why does no one listen to the kids?
How is Mr. Poe allowed any responsibility?
How is Mr. Poe so entirely incompetent?
How can I stop becoming physically tense with infuriation every time Mr. Poe is mentioned?
Will these kids ever get a break?
Is the next book going to terrify me half to death like the movie did?
(It's the leeches isn't it?
It has to be the leeches.
I'm certain the leeches must be coming...) I'm infuriated, addicted and loving it.
I'm so ready for the next book.
*first read Jan 21*#RYBSAT seriously though, the ending to each book in The Series of Unfortunate Events makes me cry!
This ending tore my heart!
Each book only gets better.
I probably loved this one more than The Bad Beginning, if that's even possible.
I have to say, Sunny had her shinning moments in this book and is quickly becoming my favorite character!
She's just so adorable!Mr. Snicket's commentary throughout this book was awesome and so hilarious!
And his writing is so poetically magnificent!
I am in love with his writing.
He does so many awesome quirky things.
This definitely took me longer to read this than I expected but I still loved it!!
What I found interesting though is how this Lemony Snicket storyteller keeps explaining words to his readers when in the story the adults do it but the children always know what it means and it shows how the adults belittle the orphans.
So either Lemony Snicket is also belittling his young readers, he's doing it to be ironic or he's doing it because it's actually quite helpful.
The lesson in this book was more to do with grieving and regrets about life I think.
These books are such fast reads! They also take me back to when I first read them in my last year of primary school, when life was much easier. However, reading the unfortunate events of Sunny, Klaus and Violet's life always makes my life a little better - as horrific as that is. The children face yet again more trials in The Reptile Room, while fearing Count Olaf. There is no foreshadowing as the author tells you directly who is going to die etc. Ultimately, these books are just fast reads and I'm beyond excited for the TV series!
What proceeds is another adventure of mishaps and contrived situations that see the children triumph, yet not at the same time.
There is the explaining of words, which I do like and the hint of something larger and deeper when the author refers to himself, but the majority is humdrum classic villainous villainry.
"It's a children's book so read it like one!" I don't know if I can anymore.
I still enjoy some children's books, and they are probably books that I would have loved as a kid also.
But these books, I don't know if I would have liked them as a kid.
تو کتاب دوم بدشانسیها تو خونهی جدید هم دست از سر بچهها برنمیداره.جلد یک رو بیشتر دوست داشتم. ترجیح میدادم نوع بدشانسی آوردن بچهها یه مقدار خلاقانهتر باشه.----------یادگاری از کتاب:یکی از دردناکترین چیزها در زندگی هر کسی، احساس پشیمانی است. اتفاقی برایتان میافتد و کار اشتباهی را انجام میدهید که سالهای سال با خودتان میگویید ای کاش کار دیگری کرده بودم....مرگ کسی که دوستش داریم چیز عجیبی است. همه میدانیم که زندگی ما توی این دنیا محدود است و بالاخره یک روز، عمرمان تمام میشود و ملافهای رویمان میکشند ک
ترجیح می‌دادم نوع بدشانسی آوردن بچه‌ها یه مقدار خلاقانه‌تر باشه.----------یادگاری از کتاب:یکی از دردناک‌ترین چیزها در زندگی هر کسی، احساس پشیمانی است.
با این حال وقتی برای یکی از دوست و آشناهای خودمان همین اتفاق می‌افتد، همیشه جا می‌خوریم.
مثل این می‌ماند که توی تاریکی از پله‌ها بالا می‌روید تا به اتاق خوابتان برسید و پیش خودتان فکر می‌کنید که باید پله‌ی دیگری هم باشد اما یک‌هو زیر پایتان خالی می‌شود....این جالب است که وقتی چند نفر به یک‌ چیز نگاه می‌کنند، ممکن است هر یک فکرهای متفاوتی درباره‌اش بکنند.
4.3 An improvement compared to the first book, although it was basically the same life lessons. This was another quick read and I really loved the storyline of this one. Violet once again shows her cunning knowledge in tools and devices, Klaus's bookish personality saved their lives, and the adorable Sunny is still that too-mature-to-be-an-infant baby. Count Olaf's Stephano disguise was really funny and ridiculous as well! (view spoiler)[Mr. Monty, on the other hand, is supposed to be this grea
An improvement compared to the first book, although it was basically the same life lessons.
This was another quick read and I really loved the storyline of this one.
(view spoiler)[Mr. Monty, on the other hand, is supposed to be this great and perfect guardian for the Baudelaire orphans, too bad we have to see him perish in such a short time (hide spoiler)].
Hope these kids find their perfect guardians soon and get out of all of their misfortunes.
Off to the third book, which is "The Wide Window"!
"If one's safety is threatened, one often finds courage one didn't know one had."  I like this book better than the first one. Count Olaf took the next step in pursuing the Baudelaire's treasure and it was fun!I can't help but be frustrated when no one believes the children even though they were telling the truth, but where's the fun if they did believe them right away, right?Violet, Kalaus and Sunny are one of a kind, their sibling bond is so sturdy and I don't think any unfortunate events ca
"If one's safety is threatened, one often finds courage one didn't know one had."
  
I like this book better than the first one. Count Olaf took the next step in pursuing the Baudelaire's treasure and it was fun!I can't help but be frustrated when no one believes the children even though they were telling the truth, but where's the fun if they did believe them right away, right?Violet, Kalaus and Sunny are one of a kind, their sibling bond is so sturdy and I don't think any unfortunate events can ruin that.
  P.S
 I miss the Incredibly Deadly Viper
p.76 If I wanted to harm you, orphan, your blood would already be pouring down these stairs like a waterfall.p.88 The hallway was strangely quiet, and blank as the eyes of a skull.p.96 It is a curious thing, the death of a loved one.
Your foot falls down, through the air, and there is a sickly moment of dark surprise as you try to readjust the way you thought of things.This last thought, about losing a person you love, is so true and poignant.
One of the most brilliant and touching aspects of these novels is the support, love, and intelligence of the Baudelaire orphans.
“How did you do that?” Mr. Poe asked. “Nice girls shouldn’t know how to do such things.”“My sister is a nice girl,” Klaus said, “and she knows how to do all sorts of things.”
4 STARS!!Finished this is one day! It was a great follow up to the first and was much more dark, dreary, and funny. I also really like snakes, so I enjoyed this one a bit more than the first. When I finished it though I couldn't help but wonder HOW this series goes on to 13 books? you can only drag on the same story line for so long until it gets irritating and boring. I can't promise I'll read all 13 but I will try. Now onto the third! - Richard
3.5. Enjoyed this much more than the first one! Uncle Monty is seriously great. I mean, I really just want to see these kids be happy, but I can’t help but wonder how Lemony Snicket can make it worse for them...
For anyone who isn't familiar with Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events, it's a 13 part children's book series that follows the lives of the three Baudelaire children, Violet, Klaus and Sunny after their parents perish in a fire that destroyed their family home.
The children instantly see through this facade but aren't able to make Uncle Monty understand in time to prevent his death.The Reptile Room is a brilliant follow up to The Bad Beginning.
Count Olaf is back at it again!Violet, Klaus, and Sunny are here too.
However, he still seems naive just like every other adult in this series.
Then there's Count Olaf who is still trying to take the kids fortune.
The kid's got spunk and I will forever love to watch her character grow.
Yet, Sunny will forever be my favorite.
It does frustrate me to no end how the "adults" in these books never seem to believe them.
The adults definitely do frustrate me - except for Count Olaf, because the things he does just crack me up.
When using the term 'getting better' here Jay means 'the plot changes.'This episode features Uncle Monty and I think it's a testament to the casting or the performance of Billy Connelly in the movie adaptation that any time he has dialogue in the book I could hear the scots 'comedian' in my head.
(When Toby uses the term 'cheeseball' in this sentence what he means is 'incredibly bad actor') and is well worth the 90 minutes of your time to watch.
