https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428263.Eclipse
"You gave it three stars?" she asked me, biting her lip and holding her breath."Yes," I finally answered with my marble lips, cold yet strangely comforting, even warm.
That's why I gave it three stars, and that's why-" I gasped, she gasped, we both forgot to breathe and bit our lips, "-why I will be reading the fourth book as soon as it is out."Finally, I remembered to breathe and stopped caressing her face, looked into her eyes and with my godlike, cool, marble lips, asked, "Satisfied?"Smiling, she answered, "Yes, very."____________Notes from James: If you like this one, you will probably also get a kick out of my original review of Book 1.
My notes to characters in Eclipse:Bella: I'm so done with you.
You're not a strong modern woman because you don't want to be a teen bride, and you're not cute because you fall down a lot.Alice: You're so not cute either.
And to think I liked you best until the middle of this book!Edward: Checking the brood-o-meter...
everyone seemed to cut Bella enough slack in the last book for a lot less.
Sucks to be a supporting female character in these books, huh?Note to Stephenie Meyer: Even you must think the Wuthering Heights references are a little over the top, right?
bella was obviously catherine, edward was heathcliff the true love and jacob was linton,the more "appropriate" choice, right?
jacob is her father's choice for her, which makes him linton, who is technically a better choice because there is less self-destructive passion, and choosing him allows her to remain, you know, alive.but let's back up.because wuthering heights was never a choice between two suitable men.
that element is pure meyer.in wuthering heights, everyone behaves poorly.in this one, it is really just jacob as linton, i mean heathcliff, i mean jacob.nonsense.apart from any messing-with-the-heights stumbles, this also maintains all the lazy writing and comical details meyer interprets as passion: all the tooth grinding and clenching and chuckling and things said under the breath.oh, and snorting.
She has no self-worth, and spends a good deal of the book whining, complaining and sighing, I really wanted to shake her hard at times and tell her to GET A LIFE.
There is such a thing as being too perfect (read: dull), and Edward fits the mold perfectly.
His character is so flat, and how many times can we hear Bella and Edward exchange their love for one another before becoming bored?
Writing tip for the author: You don't need to tell us countless times that your character is wonderful.
He was the most compelling character in the book.
Isabella Swan? I promise to love you forever - every single day of forever. Will you marry me? I can feel my teenage heart quivering I'm gonna fight for you, until your heart stops beating. That heart just explodedWhewwwww. Ten years ago, I would've fought anyone who challenged Edward and Bella's love. Nowadays? Not quite as fervently, but I will still go head-to-head on this one.In case you've been under a rock for the last decade, Edward (the sparkling vamp) loves Bella (the clumsy human) who
Ten years ago, I would've fought anyone who challenged Edward and Bella's love.
Not quite as fervently, but I will still go head-to-head on this one.In case you've been under a rock for the last decade, Edward (the sparkling vamp) loves Bella (the clumsy human) who loves Jacob (the hot-headed werewolf) but 
Chock it up to being a YA while reading YA lit.Yes, their love is frighteningly codependent - especially taking Edward's age into considerations.
And yes, the love triangle is so incredibly over-the-top - you have on one side a normal teenage boy and on the other...A psychotically obsessed ex-murdering stalker.
Eclipse took what magic was in Twilight and survived the boring but interesting New Moon and killed it off with it's length, lack of imagery, inconsistencies, and lifeless characters.The high school romance theme is COMPLETELY abandoned- we have the occasional, random scene since we need some build up to Bella's very boring graduation where she doesn't care.
Jake never acted like he truly loved Bella but rather that Bella was a trophy to prove Jake bested perfect Edward.Their lovable traits have gone missing, leaving very dislikable characters behind whose flaws are either ignored or always forgiven.On the few good sides we finally learn Jasper and Rosalie's past.
Anyone who is unhealthily obsessed with Edward or the novel should not be reading this unless you want a good kick in the face!We are introduced with Jacob (my hero) writing a letter to Bitchface (Bella) and just like himself, has many flaws, but usually ends sweetly.
She agrees either way, as long as they get to DO IT.Throughout the story, Edward and Jacob have a temporary truce to protect Bella from Victoria and her slave of vampire zombies.
I only wish this series would end up the way it should be (Bella and Edward dead).
Meyer is a guilty pleasure, and the 629 pages read like 250.
But Stephanie Meyer has broadened her scope.
She adds the complication of additional players and increased the battle forces a bit, adding some new recruits to the forces of real darkness and throwing in some preparatory and fun back stories to bolster the coming action.
But whiny Bella still cleaves to Edward while keeping the panting Jacob at something less than paw’s length.
Can Jacob convince Bella to reconsider?
Will Edward give Bella what she wants?
Howling good fun, without being a complete howler.
A film adaptation of the novel was released on June 30, 2010.عنوانها: خسوف از مجموعه شفق؛ نویسنده: استفنی مه یر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهاردهم ماه دسامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: خسوف - ادامه رمان ماه نو - کتاب سوم از مجموعه شفق؛ ماه گرفتگی؛ نویسنده: استفنی مه یر؛ مترجم: شهناز کمیلی زاده؛ کرج، در دانش، 1388، در 572 ص؛ چاپ دوم تا چهارم 1388؛ چاپ پنجم تا هشتم 1389؛ شابک: 9789641740704؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 معنوان: ماه گرفتگی؛ نویسنده: استفنی مه یر؛ مترجم: فرشید قهرمانی؛ قزوین، سایه گستر، 1388، در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9789645024404؛نقل از ابتدای متن کتاب: بعضی میگویند: دنیا در میان آتش به پایان میرسد، دیگران میپندارند در میان یخ، با طعمی که از اشتیاق و شور و شوق چشیده ام، با آنها که آتش را ترجیح میدهند، موافقم.
I have heard students at work complaining about how repetitive the books can be, how little occurs in 600+ pages, how weak Bella is, and how repulsive some of the love scenes are.
It feels good to be right.This post isn’t intended to be a ripfest on Meyer, though.
I really am feeling over her and her books.
* Meyer beats the reader over the head with how much Bella and Edward love each other.
Yet, for the life of me, after reading the three books I just don’t feel that love.
Despite reading over 1500 pages about their love, I still don’t buy it.
He bribes her into a marriage by withholding sex and conversion, HE TAKES HER CAR APART TO KEEP HER AT HOME, Bella constantly makes comments about how she doesn't even know if she'll survive upcoming meetings with the supposed love of her life, Edward assigns members of his family to baby-sit (read: stalk) his girlfriend.
They drag it out the entire book and every time something bad happens, it takes them multiple chapters to be like, "...could it be Victoria?" YES.
It just happens and we wander quickly away to talk some more about Edward and Bella's stupid love.Full recaps here.
“He's like a drug for you, Bella.”  When Bella is torn between Edward and Jacob, while Edward is her world, Jacob is likewise her savior. So who will she choose ?Eclipse made my stomach flutter when I read it first time even if it was quite melodramatic as Jacob tries to hold on Bella and never wants to let her go. My heart was broken by that scene and I did want to die alone. I cried a lot for Jacob, by the way.  “Look after my heart - I've left it with you.”  Meyer didn't disappoint me with h
“He's like a drug for you, Bella.” 
So who will she choose ?Eclipse made my stomach flutter when I read it first time even if it was quite melodramatic as Jacob tries to hold on Bella and never wants to let her go.
My heart was broken by that scene and I did want to die alone.
“Look after my heart - I've left it with you.” 
Meyer didn't disappoint me with her third book in the series I love most.
Although I've read many books with the love triangles like this one, Eclipse is truly original and classic for me.
That love is based on mystery, danger and good looks alone?I don’t care who she ends up with ultimately (though I do hope that if it’s Edward their relationship improves) but please do us all a favor and have Bella learn to think and live for herself and grow out of this sickening neediness and willingness to be controlled.
Jacob is the only real character, and even he keeps forcing himself on Bella in unsettling ways.The whole story is endless repetitions ofCharacter: I'm going to do X.Other Character: I will not allow it.Character: (does it anyway)Other Character: (is hurt) I TOLD you not to do that, but thank you.Character: See?
I would NEVER do anything to hurt you.with pretty much everyone in the book taking one role or the other at some point.I'm still going to read the next one, but if she doesn't end up with Jacob I'm going to be VERY UPSET.
Danger once again surrounds Bella , as a string of mysterious killings terrorizes Seattle and a malicious vampire continues her infernal quest for revenge. Amid the tumult, Bella must choose between her love for Edward and her friendship with Jacob , knowing that her decision may ignite the long-simmering feud between vampire and werewolf.
I can't seem to make up my mind on whether I like or her this character.
I just wish that the book was a little more involved in action and be less about Bella's indecisiveness on whether or not she is in love with Jacob.
I really believe that if Meyer would be less hell-bent on describing all the ways Bella loves Edward or how she's in love with two people at the same time, and instead created some action sequences, it would have been a really good book and an excellent series overall.
I like the drama but I want some action and variety, too.
She's constantly telling us how good, kind, noble and wonderful Edward is, but her unconscious is also noting all the dreadful things he does, and we get to hear about them too.
In New Moon, Edward callously leaves Bella, and Jacob does his damnedest to rescue her from a nervous breakdown.
Bella loves the feeling of freedom and speed this gives her, and particularly relishes the sense of danger; this is how she also fantasizes that she is close to Edward.
Jacob can see how adroitly Edward manipulates everyone's feelings, but only comes across as jealous when he points it out.
Stephenie Meyer should be sending handwritten thank-you notes to every sorry teenager (and masochistic adult) who continues to slog through her Harlequin romp of a series. Were it not for what I will generously term my ‘anthropological interest’ in this ever-popularizing series, I for one would certainly be leading a caravan out to the old country to demand that she return the four and half hours that I lost reading  New Moon . Even skimming, I felt robbed. So why continue, you ask? Well, primar
Because I want to know if--after three epically long novels, an abyss of teenage drama and male dependency, a vampire war, and an impending marriage, Bella finally gets to have sex.
Just let Bella get some already.Bella’s persistent, unabashed, and fanatical insistence on having sex is perhaps the most redeeming thing about this series.
She agrees to get married, and randomly decides that she wants to wait until after the ceremony to have sex with Edward—even after he finally gives in to whatever hormonal impulses vampires have and tries to seduce her.
I DO understand where Jake is coming from - what he is trying to make Bella see, so that she realizes she has another option for a loving, happy, mortal life - but I just think he is going about it in a very wrong way.
What really cemented my love for Edward over the "pushy, obnoxious dog" was the close to this scene (I'm paraphrasing here):Edward: "You know, if we weren't natural enemies, and you weren't trying to steal the core of my existence, I might actually like you."Jacob: "Yeah...
Actual Rating: 1.5 StarsMan this one was a lot harder to reread than the first two. So much manipulation & whining & lovey dovey, ugh. Definitely less fun now that Jacob is a full blown asshole.
How to say goodbye to Charelie and Renée...to Jacob...to being human.I knew exactly what I wanted, but I was suddenly terrified of getting it.She starts to think much more practically about what life will be like as a vampire, and she's (finally!) a little afraid:I'd always known that I would be different.
He insists that he and his family are able to save her from any harm, so there's no need for her to worry her little head about anything:"You don't think Bella has a right to know?" Jacob challenged.
It was Alice who had a vision of this, and Edward finds out...so what does he do?He takes Bella, pretty much blackmailing her in front of her father, to Phoenix, to see her mum.
Well: When Bella and Edward are in Phoenix, Victoria comes back and while trying to catch her (both the vampires and the werewolves), Emmet (Edward's brother) by accidentally crosses onto the werewolf land.
Problem 2: Edward is not on battlefield, not helping his family because Bella drags him away with her pathetic line, reminding Eddie, that them being apart usually ends badly.
Then Jacob finds out that Bella and Edward are getting married.
Does anyone read these books and actually not realize that getting bitten by a vampire is just a huge, chicken-poop metaphor for the giving of a young woman's virginity?
Also, although Bella is presented as a passably intelligent young person, she spends about 99.9% of her time thinking about how much she loves her sanguine paramour.
This is not the kind of message I'd like to be sending to young women today; I know fantasy is fantasy, and sometimes it's nice to indulge your stupider ones, but three books-worth?
What the fuck did I just read? Reading this was a waste of my time.
i watched the film version of this the other night, and i have to say that i was impressed.
i love how much time Bella spends with her best friend, the pec-tastic gym boy who turns into a friendly gay wolf.
and it's awesome that a film for teens can include a group of constantly shirtless gay kids running around in jean shorts, flexing and showing off their cut muscles, hanging out and being catty with the cutest girl in town, even protecting her!
it reminded me of how much i love San Francisco in the summer!
So, this is the book where all of the emotional abuse turns into the physical kind, when Meyer thinks it's a good idea to make the only good character of the series sexually assault Bella.
I'm sure you can, because this is the book where Jacob forcedly kissed Bella, after which her father congratulates him on assaulting his daughter.
The series was already full of misogyny, horrible fucking messages, but this?
What kind of a parent thinks it's fine and dandy to have a friend sexually assault his daughter?
what in the flying fuck were the publishers thinking?!
I liked Twilight and enjoyed New Moon, but this installment felt like a dime romance novel to me.
She didn't introduce any new characters and spent the whole book on the love triangle between Edward, Bella, and Jacob.
I felt like the love scenes were cheesy and tiresome.
In addition, Meyer has taken Bella from a bold heroine and turned her into an annoying little girl whose eternal existence depends completely upon the men in her life.
For most of New Moon and almost all of Eclipse Bella acts like the fainting women in silent movies that must carried everywhere and protected by their male companions.
In this story, it seems as though part of Bella loves Jacob as much as Edward, but she can't live without Edward, so that's why she chose him.
But at the end of the day, Edward is always going to be that decent, kind man who will do the right thing even if he doesn't like it.
Jacob comes to see how Bella can love this 'cold one', and that Edward would never be selfish when it comes to Bella.
I loved the line in which Jacob says he is Bella's sun, but he can't fight the eclipse (which is Edward).
you know a book is bad when it's been years since you read it but you can still remember just how awful it was
Book 3 in The Twilight Saga.
Bella and Edward are back together, while Bella is struggling to hold on to her friendship with her very best friend, Jacob.
There is also a new threat lurking on the horizon.
This was another very entertaining story in the series.
Romance, action, and some great interplay and moments between the characters, especially Bella and Jacob.
Jacob continues to grow on me more and more with each book.
It was interesting to learn more about Rosalie and Jasper, and also the legends of the werewolves.
I'm looking forward to the final book, Breaking Dawn.
