https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122438.Asterix_in_Switzerland
"Damn Swiss bureaucrats! Now we have to fill out this form!"
And for two (and this might in fact be even more essential as to why the Asterix comics are such perennial wonders), the actual villains (the bona fide and true nasties) of the diverse episodes are generally and usually solely individually problematic and vile characters, which means that they are not considered worrisome and cringeworthy because of their ethnicity and culture, but because they just happen to be people, persons with an inherent nastiness both internal and external.
Highly recommended are both Asterix chez les Helvètes and the rest of the Asterix comics (well, at least those episodes written by René Goscinny, as the ones both penned and illustrated by Albert Uderzo after Goscinny's death are unfortunately not nearly as deliciously funny).
Asterix in Switzerland is another one of the books that we didn't actually have when I was a kid, we had the cover, and a page or two, but the rest was missing. (like Obelix and Co., and Asterix and the Cauldron)This is one of the best I've read for story, in that there's a twist...a Roman who's an ally, and needs help against...another Roman!The Roman Auditor arrives in the midst of an orgy, to review the accounts of a wealthy province of Gaul that pretends to be poor (the money we see ends up
They go with him, and he arrives in time to diagnose the poisoning, which he keeps to himself, until explaining to Asterix that he's taking the auditor "hostage" while A&O go look for a necessary ingredient in the Swiss Alps, so that he's not murdered while recovering.
The Governor is far too willing to agree, because he figures either way his problem is gone.So Getafix, the auditor and bodyguard return to our village, and Asterix and Obelix go to Switzerland, where they run into swiss cheese, yodelling, fondue, neutrality, and a banker with tight vaults that he doesn't ask questions about (Zurix is his name).
Μου έπεσε η μπουκίτσα
Asterix-sarjan parhaita albumeita. Joka on toista mieltä, sidottakoon hänen jalkoihinsa paino ja heitettäköön järveen. Ruoskaakin saa antaa, jos se on jo kuivunut.
The Fondue - memorable!!
Asterix in Switzerland (Astérix #16), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
Asterix in Helvesië is vir my een van die heel beste stories in die Asterix-kanon.
En fondue met gesmelte kaas.
Natuurlik eindig alles goed en reg en plesierig, en die reëls kan soms effens buig (en nee, dis nie ter wille van Liederlix nie!).This Asterix adventure is one of the best in the canon, and Sonya van Schalkwyk-Barrois plays Afrikaans like a virtuoso to create a translation that is just as much fun as the original story, with its humorous depiction of the precise and clean Swiss.
Kuckuck!Heutzutage sind die Schweizer hauptsächlich mit den Werbungen für Ricola ("Wer hat's erfunden?") und für Appenzeller in den Medien.
Doch ein paar der liebevollen Klischees, die in diesem Asterixband präsentiert werden, haben sich verselbständigt und sind heute noch als running gag beliebt - ich sage nur Stockhiebe, Peitschenschläge und mit einem Gewicht an den Füßen in den See. Ich kann kein Käsefondue mehr essen, ohne daran zu denken.Insgesamt empfinde ich "Astérix chez les Helvètes" mehr als einen reifen, aber nicht übermäßig würzigen Emmentaler.
I love Asterix. I think its one of the best comics ever! Laughing Riot!!! Oh those Swiss are sooo organized! A character or setting in this book was interesting to me (and why): A character that was interesting to me was Asterix because even though he likes to have fun, he also takes responsibility about what he does and tries not to get into bad situations and he uses his brain.
I love Asterix. I think it´s one of the best comics ever! Laughing Riot!!! Oh those Swiss are sooo organized! A character or setting in this book was interesting to me (and why): A character that was interesting to me was Asterix because even though he likes to have fun, he also takes responsibility about what he does and tries not to get into bad situations and he uses his brain.
Πολύ γέλιο....Ο ΑΣΤΕΡΙΞ μας κάνει μέχρι σήμερα να γελάμε!
C’est vraiment trop chou.Dans ce volume, il y a le gouverneur de Condate (Rennes), Gracchus Garovirus, qui a rien de plus important à faire que d’organiser des orgies.
Heureusement, le questeur sait que Panoramix, le druide gaulois, n’est pas trop loin et pourrait le guérir.
Voilà, l’aventure commence pour Astérix et Obélix, qui partent pour aller chercher cette fleur rare en Helvétie.Apparemment, les Helvètes étaient comme les Suisses d’aujourd’hui – il y en a autant de clichés, et les allusions sont super rigolos (je le trouve encore plus drôle car je suis suissesse moi-même).
I think kids would like them for the slapstick humor and adults would like them for the slapstick humor as well as the verbal humor and jabs at Roman "culture." I've only read 3 volumes so far (and have a 4th in-hand), but i'm extremely proud of myself for noticing that (not a spoiler) the names on the map and cast of characters pages can change from one volume to the next.In Legionary the Roman outposts surrounding the Gavlish village are Delirivm, Nohappimedivm, Opprobrivm, and Aqvarivm; the druid is Magigimmix; the bard is Malacoustix; the chief is Macroeconomix.In Switzerland and Big Fight the Roman outposts surrounding the Gaulish village are Compendium, Laudanum, Totorum, and Aquarium; the druid is Getafix; the bard is Cacofonix; the chief is Vitalstatistix.Only 3 issues to figure that out?
Tätä osaa lukiessa huvitti erityisesti Rooman ylimystön kieltämättä hyvin turmeltunut meininki loputtomine orgioineen. Siihen verraten sveitsiläisten täsmällisen puolueeton meininki oli varsin riemastuttavaa kontrastia.
Deboluccio: presenta problemi analoghi alla storia con i belgi: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34...La caratterizzazione degli elvezi non possiede grande spessore (insomma: sono come gli altri galli, solo “precisini”… un po’ poco).Credo poi che l’inserimento del motivo dell’orgia sia stato un grosso errore: se non sbaglio, nell’immaginario europeo l’orgia è un evento che ha a che fare con cibo e sesso ed è ovvio che in una serie come “Asterix” il secondo elemento dovesse saltare. Questo crea qualche perplessità nel lettore adulto.
Le gouverneur de la province de Rennes pratique activement le « recel et abus de biens sociaux avec enrichissement personnel », c'est-a-dire qu'il profite de sa situation pour s'enrichir. Aussi, quand Rome envoie un questeur pour verifier ses comptes, il l'empoisonne. Mais le questeur fait appel a Panoramix, qui a besoin pour pouvoir le soigner de faire une potion a base d'Edelweiss.
Ah là là ! Des Suisses bien, mais alors bien stéréotypés !A noter que, pour un fois, nos héros sont en quête pour soigner un "bon" romain, empoisonné par un mauvais. Les scènes de fondues sont vraiment hilarantes.
One of the great ones, with plenty of clever touches and an orgy with cheese fondues and so many whippings that I was surprised not to see it re-enacted in Eyes Wide Shut. I seem to remember most of the Swiss looked like Bill Bryson for some reason or other.
i see you, bibendum
Light humorous fun. I think I'm going to look for more titles.
I think I love this book for the fondue jokes.It's a great addition to the series.After re-reading this book for the up-teenth time, I now understand why Swiss. is neutral.
En este caso tuvimos un laaaaargo paréntesis porque rivalizó con el tercer volumen ilustrado de Harry Potter.Este Asterix es bueno, como todos.
A mí me sirve para hablarles a los chicos de un poco de historia y explicarles de qué la van ciertos chistes.
Dos cosas: el final me pareció un poco abrupto, como si obligados a clavar las 48 páginas de rigor, metieron una súper elipsis al final; y lo otro es más raro: la historia empieza y termina con una orgía romana.
Al principio se las leí sin más, después la modifiqué por "fiesta" o "banquete".
I haven't read the Asterix comics for more than 10 years. Now I read them with my children and it's so enjoyable! This is one of my fave albums. It is fantastic how much fantasy and details are in this album.
Remember, that everyone should learn French, just so that they can read Asterix in the original language."On vient chercher des montagnes, et on se retrouve dans une cave à manger des trous!"When you can understand that, and get the joke, then you will be ready for the wonder that is Asterix.
The plot of this one is predictably straight-forward: the heroes go out to seek a valuable item, face adversity, overcome it with magic potion and return with the item.Minus points for the bad puns and the sometimes offensive stereotypes.
a bit forced
Asterix in beautiful Switzerland.
Wonderful as always\
Asterixin maailmanmatkailusarjan peruskauraa. Tällä kertaa Asterix ja Obelix matkustavat Sveitsiin kohtaamaan stereotypioita jodlauksesta ja pankkiholveista.
Ranskalaiset pitävät sveitsiläisistä ja se näkyy myös Alppikukassa. Kaikki mahdolliset kliseet juustoista pankkiholveihin tietenkin käytetään hyväksi, mutta ei liian helposti, vaan tarina toimii.
