https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123106.Twisted
I've read other books written by Laurie Halse Anderson, they were all great, but "Twisted" just totally blew my mind.This is a story about Tyler, a teenage boy who, trying to disengage himself from years of social invisibility, commits an act for which he is given 6-months probation and forced to a summer filled of character building labor.
On probation for his stunt, Tyler struggles to balance his consuming crush with pressure that comes from schoolwork and his explosive father, and after Tyler is implicated in a serious crime, his balancing act falls apart.
This is the second book I've read by Laurie Halse Anderson and I was impressed yet again.
Twisted is about a teenage boy called Tyler who finds himself in the high school limelight after pulling a stunt that lands him with 6 months probation and hard labour - which then results in him gaining a super hot body and a bad (in a good way) reputation.
Then his whole world turns upside down and almost no one is on his side, including his father.I think Anderson has done an amazing job with Twisted.
I am definitely going to read more from Laurie Halse Anderson.
Laurie Halse Anderson’s Twisted is one hell of a hand grenade launched into the canon of teen lit!
Tyler’s senior year is about to start and things are looking like this: community service for the Foul Deed is about over, classes are going to be hell, and the hottest girl at George Washington High has Tyler on her radar…as does her a**hole brother, Chip.
Ty has changed a bit as well - the summer of landscaping has given him a new physique, and a new confidence, but like Aunt May says to a transformed Peter Parker, “with great power comes great responsibility.” And who exactly is going to teach Tyler how to be responsible?
This is where Twisted really gets going.
It's no longer on the shelf, but it's not in the hold department yet."Maybe it's in the shipment from today," she says with a big smile."No, you see it's in transit from this library.
I was the only hold and it says the copy from this library is in transit.
I get home and guess what's showing up as arrived on my library account?So when I say the library recommended this to me, it didn't really, but I'm glad I got to explore more of Anderson's work.I started off liking this.
During the summer he goes trough a growth spurt (he's six-three and one ninety-five now) and because of his hard work for the landscaping company he's packing some nice looking muscles, so the most popular girl in school Bethany Milbury is finally noticing him.
He's a great brother to his younger sister, he's a great son to his mom, and his trying to please his over controlling (and a little bit psycho) dad.One of the reasons I loved this book so much is because it's written from a guys POV, and Laurie Halse Anderson does a great job with Tyler.He's not emo, but he's sensitive enough, and his hormones are working overtime, but he's not acting like a dog in heat.
“Once you’ve thought long and hard enough about doing something that is colossally stupid, you feel like you’ve actually done it, and then you’re never quite sure what your limits are.” If you've never read anything by Laurie Halse Anderson before, let me tell you that she writes some of the best hard-hitting realism. Speak took a close look at a rape victim; Wintergirls focused on an anorexic girl. Twisted is centered around suicide.Anderson has a gift for being able to dive into the minds of
I think a lot of authors miss the mark when they try to write "teen voices" and their characters end up sounding like they tried way too hard.With Anderson, it comes naturally.
Her characters think like teens, have realistic relationships, and their behavior accurately represents teenagers.Twisted shows the side of Tyler's life that he won't let his friends see - his depressed, abusive father who is tearing their family apart and how Tyler spends his time thinking up different ways to hurt people.
Tyler's narrative was so sympathetic; no matter how hard he tried, he could never live up to his father's expectations.
The whole time I was reading it, I kept thinking that if I was a teenager I would have had my jaw gaping open at some of the plot twists, but since I'm now a jaded adult I felt like the events that occurred were a bit more emotionally manipulative.Main things that bugged me: the "fantasy" of a dorky guy who works all summer and comes back to school buff and suddenly semi-popular.
On the flip side, many YA books can cross the line and engage both teens and adults - I just don't think this is one of them.
First, she gets the teenage male voice and preoccupations perfect; Tyler's hard-ons are just as much a part of his daily life as his social anxieties, crushes, and homework.
But as Tyler's promising proto-relationship with super-popular Bethany gets twisted by one late-night party and a heap of false accusations, it becomes impossible to ignore the pressure from Tyler's asshole dad...
and equally impossible for Tyler to ignore doing something about him.Some elements--the reconciliation between Tyler and his father, for example--are a bit predictable, but all in all, this is a thought-provoking, worthwhile read that guys and gals alike will enjoy.
Want to see more bookish things from me?
This slowly transforms him from invisible Nerd Boy to suddenly hunky semi-bad boy which catches the attention of his long time crush, Bethany Milbury.
As the school year progresses, Tyler's life drastically changes as he tries to balance his overbearing father, his school work and his crush on Bethany.I absolutely love Laurie Halse Anderson and her writing, she is so talented!
Through out Tyler's story you sympathize with him and just want things to get better.
Anderson does a great job balancing between the serious parts of the story with more light-hearted jokes and feel good moments.
anyway, this is the first of  Laurie Halse Anderson's books i've read with a male protagonist, and i have to say, i'm pretty impressed with how well she got into tyler's head.
(i also really liked yoda.)this book is centrally about identity and pressure, and, in a little like  Thirteen Reasons Why, the repercussions of actions that we don't even know.
what's also fascinating about this book are the characters of the parents.
it's interesting to see how tyler's perceptions of their actions grow, and how he misreads them, and how they misread him.

His new work-hardened physique and his newly minted bad boy reputation make him a personality at school and attractive to the girl of his fantasies.
But as he's processing these changes our protagonist has to deal with troubles at home.
His dad's growing distance from the family, his mom's drinking and his little sister's too-wise take on boys, high-school and popularity.
This is a book about growing up, being misunderstood, the relationship between fathers and sons and many other issues that are all too common in today's world.
Twisted was a brilliant book.
The average sounding description on the back definitely did not prepare me for what was inside.
It started out pretty slow but once I got into the swing of it, I simply couldn't put it down.
Tyler's character is just so real and raw.
The book had me in suspense many times and was a real page-turner.
Twisted is an excellent portrayal of family life and deals well with some very real problems.
It was fascinating to watch Tyler stumble through life and see his courage develop as the story went on.
Tyler Miller is an interesting and (from my observations) typical - ish high school senior.
The workaholic father, the mother who dulls her pain by drinking and his cute and sassy freshman sister also have a big affect on Tyler's senior year.
I love the authors wonderful descriptions: Tyler notes the girls at school seem to have "clothing optional days" -- not that they come to school naked, but that the clothing they wear is so scimpy they may as well be naked; and the comparison of the father to an evil dragon breaking out of his skin are fabulous.
Interesting - I think even teen guys will read this one.
The main character, Tyler, has to learn to balance his preferences along with meeting the expectations or his parents, peers, and impressing the girl of his dreams, and making amends for past wrongs.
Tyler has to face a father whose pressures at work spill over at home making him a tyrant willing to use force and intimidation to gain compliance.
Tyler feels placed under a microscope and often feels there are no options that will be morally correct, obedient to his parents, and regain the trust of his teachers and community.
Will he win the heart of his dream girl?
Tyler is a high school boy. Not one of those fake, perfect jock high school boys or half-vampire, half-god characters. A real high school boy. Who can't control himself amidst the sea of sexy girls walking down the hall or convince his dad that there is no way in hell he should be taking all AP classes and calculus, or pull off dousing the school in graffiti without misspelling a word and getting caught. On probation. For life.And still, he has to survive senior year. If he can.AWESOME. Super fast and hypnotizing.
I really liked this book.
I remember high school like it was yesterday (ok, 30 years ago) and it made me giggle in places that reminded me of my own high school shenanigans.Tyler, the narrator, is really going through some serious bullcrap his senior year.
I remember how tough it is to be a teen, high school, growing up...in that limbo between child and adult.
You've got to read this book!!!" So I did.
I wanted to encourage him to keep the love of reading alive throughout his life like my dad passed on to me.
That's when I realized YA books aren't just for kids and teens.
Actual Rating: 2.5OR MAYBE I'LL JUST COMPLETELY FORGET TO WRITE A REVIEW?It's gotten to the point where I don't remember much about what happened in this novel.
Twisted wasn't bad, I know I hated the ending (like freaking unrealistic fairytale ending and it was RUSHED!!!!!
Stop rushing, authors!!!!) Tyler was fine, his fixation with Bethany didn't really do anything except annoy me, and the rest of it was just meh.
REMEMBERED WHAT HAPPENED Sooooooooooooo yeah.
But I would suggest a platter of chocolate chip walnut coconut cookies!
(Cookies are never a waste of money.
Cookies will never hurt you.
i love how Laurie Halse Anderson doesn't force romance into her stories. It is there or it isn't.Not many female writers are able to write in such a realistic way a male point of view. I think she was capable of seeing the struggles of a guy are as important as girl's. We've read too much about girls and we don't realise guys have as much as problms as we have.It's enjoable and not long. I couldn't get enough of it. However, the ending wasn't quite what i expected or wanted but Laurie Halse Anderson's never are.
Nicht selten ist das Schreiben aus der Sicht des gegensätzlichen Geschlechts ein schwieriges Unterfangen, und auch Andersen ist dem in diesem Jugendroman nicht unbedingt immer gewachsen.Tyler an sich ist eine sehr schwierige Person, für den Andersen sich über die Hälfte des Buches Zeit nimmt, um ihn dem Leser näherzubringen.
Das ist auch das, was Laurie Halse Anderson nach wie vor kann: Familienprobleme subtil in so wenigen Szenen darstellen, dass es reicht, um sie in ihrem Kopf zu vervollständigen und mit den Charakteren mitzufühlen, besonders wenn sich mal andere Seiten von ihnen zeigen und klar wird, dass alle ihren Anteil an der prekären Lage haben.
Titolo e copertina dell'edizione italiana sono fuorvianti, come capita fin troppo spesso. E' un romanzo particolare, non è una storia d'amore, è il racconto di una presa di coscienza, di un momento critico di crescita. Fa riflettere, molto più di quanto faccia un altro romanzo a tratti simile (Senza nuvole) ma che non ho apprezzato allo stesso modo.I personaggi non hanno una connotazione positiva o negativa... ma bensì umana, con tutte le piccolezze e gli errori della natura umana, chi più chi meno.Lascia un po' un retrogusto amaro in bocca ma vince comunque la speranza.
I,love this book. It connects with the readers, ( me), head on.
I still can't find words to describe this book but this one's another memorable read. Turns out that I really missed out on reading this year.
After reading any of YA book that deals with high school students I really can't help but wonder if is it like this in real life - cheerleaders and football players owning the school and stuff.
Anyhow I wouldn't want to be part of Tyler's high school.
Laurie Halse Anderson is one of the authors who won't tell you a story about first and sweet teen loves nor did she try to create perfect happily ever endings.
With Twisted Laurie Halse Anderson brings a realistic story about becoming a man and all that in Tyler's witty, funny and at times really emotional voice.
A story of a young boy searching for a way out of his troubles, what could sound more interesting?
I actually began reading the book as a quick read before the mid started, but within the first several pages was entranced with the authors descriptive details and how he could capture everyday emotion in just a few words.Tyler is an unpopular kid who tried to make a name of himself and ended up getting arrested.
The school shuns Tyler and he spirals into a deep depression, struggling with thoughts of suicide.
I was invested in Tyler and relieved when the book ended on a hopeful note.
I ended up really liking this book, but it took me a surprisingly long time to get into it. I started TWISTED on three or four separate occasions; for some reason, I just couldn't get past the first couple chapters. I think this is because I didn't feel an initial connection to Tyler... He frustrated me by making so many stupid decisions; I wanted to tell him to grow up.Eventually, Tyler does grow up. He deals with some heavy issues and makes some big decisions and by the end of the novel, I found myself really rooting for him.
Nobody told him how." I was skeptical that Laurie Halse Anderson would be able to get into the mind of a teenage boy since all of her other books' protagonists are females (as far as I know), but she continues to impress!
This is a highly entertaining book with an important reminder that good kids sometimes make bad decisions.
Tyler comes from a dysfunctional family with an abusive father.
He makes a poor decision at the beginning that turns him into a teenage delinquent, and his life begins to twist out of control.
Overtime, the insistence of the narrative that guys only want to bang virgin girls in this demented world of high-school, felt gratuitous and excessive.
True, it may be the reality, but there has to be some nuance to this portrayal, otherwise, we're dealing with the same old high-school stereotypes.Also, while I appreciate the uniqueness of Tyler's voice, I felt as if the resolution of his inward conflict with himself was a bit weak.
Unfortunately, Twisted failed in showing that (like most of the stories operating under the same premise).
the end shocked me.
Twisted is a book about a high school boy named Tyler Miller who has been bullied all through his school years.
During his junior year he decides that he is going to prank the school.
He was being sought after by the most popular girl in school and he also had the ability to protect himself.
Tyler had to deal with his father and his family issues, he had the most popular girl at his school wanting him and her brother trying to continuously beat Tyler up, and the internal conflict of his low confidence.
