https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352807.Point_and_Line_to_Plane
Πρόκειται για ένα πρωτοποριακό βιβλίο, ειδικά για την εποχή του, μία απόπειρα κατανόησης και εξήγησης της αφηρημένης τέχνης που σίγουρα σε ωθεί να αντικρίσεις με μία τελείως διαφορετική οπτική τον συγκεκριμένο τομέα της ζωγραφικής αλλά και το σύνολο των καλλιτεχνικών συνθέσεων.
Η απόπειρα αυτή ξεκινάει από το πιο βασικό στοιχείο, το σημείο, για να περάσει στη γραμμή και να καταλήξει στο επίπεδο και στην τελική σύνθεση των επιμέρους στοιχείων.
Ακόμη κάποια πράγματα παραμένουν θολά, μετέωρα και ίσως πιο εμπειρικά, σίγουρα όμως ανοίγει δρόμους και προοπτικές για μια διαφορετική προσέγγιση και βίωση του καλλιτεχνικού κόσμου.
La lettura di questo saggio è stata davvero interessante.
Ma in ogni caso questo libro ci aiuta a comprendere il flusso che è alla base del pensiero artistico di Kandinsky - un pittore che astrattista non ci è certo nato, ma lo è diventato - e ci dimostra come il suo sentire l'arte non sia frutto di casualità, ma di teorie ben precise e complesse nelle forme e nell'elaborazione.
Consigliato agli appassionati di Avanguardie.
Quiero leer más libros sobre mi campo laboral y mi otra pasión que es el arte. Sin embargo, los libros más teóricos son difíciles de encontrar incluso pirateando. Específicamente este libro es interesante, pero quería leer algo más sesudo y de corte filosófico, no fue lo que encontré. No me rendiré.
Apprezzavo già Kandinskij, ma solo a livello istintivo, avendone studiato semplicemente l'inquadrame
Kandinsky's writing is extremely weak, with numerous undefined terms (especially "tension", "sound" and "temperature" as they relate to graphic objects), and an abundance of unsupported claims.
It cuts the plane into exactly eight parts.andAt the moment the point is moved from the center of the basic plane - eccentric structure - the double sound becomes audible: 1.
absolute sound of the point, 2.
This second sound, which in the case of the centric structure was almost silenced, again becomes distinct and transforms the sound of the point from the absolute to the relative.Hogwash.I'm a mathematician and an art creator, so perhaps this kind of pseudo-mathematical writing disturbs me more than it would others.

I am certain I missed the point of this book. It seemed to me a very good attempt to establish solid art theory, but it still felt very subjective, and without any science to back up its claims I am not certain it can qualify.
They benefit from being read together.Unlike Abstraction in Art and Nature , this derives formal relationship through a quasi-axiomatic method, using the most elementary visual primitives.
He generally does not use examples from the "material realm".This may be off putting to artists who never work with, say, triangles or straight lines, or those whose approach is entirely intuitive.
For example, yellow is a "hotter" and "sharper" color than blue, and a triangle is a "sharper" and "hotter" shape than a circle.
So you can use awareness of these kinds of correspondences to vary the emotional and compositional characteristics of a visual work.
we disagree, kandinsky and i. but with arguing, how much better to have something direct and strong to argue against. there are also several worthwhile illustrations of ships and very generous margins for marking in.
Kandinsky's books are like his paintings - abstract for me.
Completely changed my point of view on abstractionism!
A difficult read, but a very interesting idea is developed. Kandinsky attempts to codify artistic composition scientifically.
It was the best introduction to the depth of abstract art.
Συνεχίζει με τη γραμμή που μας αναφέρει πως γεννήθηκε από την κίνηση – αφού εκμηδένισε την υπέρτατη ακινησία του σημείου.Η έλλειψη ακριβούς ορολογίας είναι δυστύχημα για τη ζωγραφική, διότι κάθε επιστημονική εργασία γίνεται δύσκολη, ίσως και αδύνατη.Σήμερα ο άνθρωπος κυριαρχείται από τον εξωτερικό κόσμο και το εσωτερικό είναι νεκρό γι’ αυτόν.
Ενώ από τη μια ο Καντίνσκι βάζει τις βάσεις για την εξήγηση της αφηρημένης τέχνης, από την άλλη μας αναφέρει πως δεν είναι σκοπός του να εγκαταστήσει κανόνες λίγο ή πολύ ακριβείς.
Μια άλλη σκέψη είναι πως οι μέθοδοι ανάλυσης της τέχνης ήταν πάντα πολύ αυθαίρετες και συχνά υπερβολικά υποκειμενικές.
Fun and useful "technical" treatment of fundamental issues of mark making. Never ceases to amaze me how much one can squeeze out of the smallest detail in mark making. Applies equally to writing as it does to image making. WK was deeply focused and verbose. Very helpful to studying and playing with his approach.
Debido a la próxima visita de la obra de Kandinsky a la Ciudad de México me puse a revisar un poco de su teoría pictórica, qué mejor que sus propias palabras para entender los conceptos de sus abstracciones. Explica de forma bastante coherente la relación que tienen para él la línea, el punto y el plano, su interacción con la geometría, el color, la dinámica y la música.
Making synesthesia a science. Astonishing. Ever wonder why Kiki is the spiky one and Boohbah is the round one? read this book.I found myself thinking more profound thoughts than normal while reading this. It might take a while for them to trickle down to everyday thinking.
Leí este libro a pedido del profesor de Morfología en Diseño Gráfico y aunque se me hizo algo pesado, por el hecho de que no había leído nada prácticamente en este tema, debo decir que fue entretenido leerlo, y que me dejo un poco mas claras las cosas.
This book is definitely deep. Author explained about the characterization of the basic concepts: point and line. This objects create various emotions when the viewer interacts with them. But, the author speaks with a specialist audience and breaks the rhythm of reading for the initiated.
Interessante descrizione delle idee che stanno alla base delle sue opere.
Книга будет интересной любознательным в сфере искусства людям, но читается тяжело.
Great art theory
Kandinsky es un gran "meh" para mí.
There are some good parts - when he compares abstract art to music.
Here are Kandinsky's quotes: ONE "In fact no materializing of external forms expresses the content of a work of painting, but rather the forces = tensions which are alive within it.
'Tension" is the force living within the element and represents only one part of the creative 'movement.' The second part is the 'direction.' which is also determined by the 'movement.' The elements of painting are material results of movement in the form 1.
Despite his stretching the concepts of dots and lines, there is a certain amount of truth in it.
If you'd to hear an eccentric Russian talk about dots and lines, this is the book for you.
Here's a taste with just one paragraph (of hundreds) with Kandinsky talking about dots.
"The point's external concept in painting is not precise.
The invisible geometric point must assume a proportion when materialized, so as to occupy a certain area of the plane.
In addition, it must have certain boundaries or outlines to separate it from its surroundings."And Kandinsky's first paragraph about many on the line: "The geometric line is an invisible thing.
Qué puedo decir, Kandinsky definitivamente no es escritor.
No entendí muchas cosas, no entendí muchas palabras que decía en el libro..
pero no porque usara tecnicismos que solo pintores o artistas pudieran entender, sino porque usaba metáforas.
No sé si con estas metáforas esperaba que ayudaran a las personas a comprender mejor, porque no fue mi caso, o será que simplemente yo no tengo imaginación.A veces sentía que su intención era de que no esperaba que lo comprendiéramos totalmente.
No explicaba por qué creía las cosas que creía, debió argumentar más.
Daba por sentado que izquierda/arriba significa "libertad"..
y yo no entendía por qué.
This might sound weird but I found this book not only amazing for learning but incredibly entertaining as well. I tried to imagine various case scenario for the context in which it was written because it sounded vibrant at times and incredibly fun.
This book came to me by a recommendation. The person that gave it to me thought that it would help me with my photo essay. It did, a lot, but it wasn't the kind of book that I use to read, so it took me a long time to finish it.
The best of ....
Very helpful!
