https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847237.Tibetan_Yoga_and_Secret_Doctrines
If ever you feel satisfied with your progress in yoga, a read-through of this book will set you straight. The techniques described here are, at present, quite thoroughly beyond my ability, and I am grateful for the reminder of how much of a novice I really am.
Mind expanding information about the Chod/Aghora/short path. Read in conjunction with "Aghora I" by Svoboda. Great and terrifying.
L'élève doit retrouver l'état d'enfant qu'il a perdu avant que le premier son puisse vibrer à son oreille.
Hélas, hélas, que tout homme possédant Ālaya (L'Impérissable) et n'étant qu'un avec la grande âme, cette possession d'Ālaya soit de si peu de poids pour lui.L'action et l'inaction peuvent trouver place en toi; ton corps agité, ton esprit tranquille, ton âme aussi claire qu'un lac de montagne.
Le sentier est unique pour tous, les moyens d'atteindre le but varient avec chaque pèlerin.Ne laisse pas tes sens faire de ton esprit un terrain de jeux.
As-tu mis ton être au diapason de la grande souffrance de l'humanité, ô candidat à la lumière?
Secret doctrines in this case means "oral tradition".
Things that were not traditionally written down, but were passed on from teacher to student verbally.
This is a collection of some of the most insightful writings that I have ever come across.
It draws heavily from pre-buddhist bon tradition and contains extensive ad explicit instructions and details on techniques of lucid dreaming among other things.
This is the real deal.
I would say about half of it is translations of true, but run of the mill type stuff.
The rest though, is some of the most densly packed pearls of philosophical insight one is likely to come across.
This book is excellent. A little confusing if you don't have background knowledge of Tibetan Buddhism (which I had little) so I plan on re-reading this one in the future so I may better understand what they are talking about.The review above was written ten years ago according to goodreads date! WOW! In ten years, I will say, that this book has been a companion of mine. I take it everywhere I go and review it. It has lead me to many other questions, books, people, and states of mind I never anticipated. Keep it near.
This is a classic translation and part of a series of translations of Tibetan Buddhist texts published by W.Y. Evans-Wentz. The selection of texts present a coherent body of theoretical and practical aspects of religious praxis, especially the last third of the book which collects a number of tantric ritual texts.
Very engrossing and well written. A must for anyone interested in the more esoteric side of yoga-consciousness.
