https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862007.The_Mysterious_Mannequin
Here's why I despise this book: when I was in 4th grade, I chose it to read for my weekly book report subject.
It was so boring and lame, though, that I couldn't keep my mind on it, but by the time I realized how badly it sucked, it was too late to switch books, so I had to plow through it, but barely paid attention.
(This was in the days before the internet, of course, so I couldn't just go on Amazon and get a summary).
So I did my book report, and it was barely comprehensible because I didn't even know what the damn book was even about.
Go go, Gadget Prayer Rug!Nonetheless, Nancy evades harm and makes friends with a young lady named Aisha, who was a close friend of Farouk and has family in Istanbul (not Constantinople), and so Nancy and her friends travel to that city with Aisha to continue solving the case!And as usual, all Nancy books contain a few throwaway moments that often amuse me more than the major plot points do.Item one: Before she leaves for Istanbul, she enters a shop in her hometown where the owners allow a man named "Haw-Haw" to sit on a stool and harass the customers.
In a crowded public setting, someone delivers a note to Nancy and she gives the signal to Ned. She gives him the "high sign." I have seen this phrase several times when reading books from the days when baby boomers were youngsters.
Not quite up to snuff with the rest of the series.
A great book of mystery and intrigue is this addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I recently found a box of my old Nancy Drews in my mother's attic.
As a YA mystery writer, I wanted to go back to Nancy Drew and see if there were tools I could use in my toolbox, in terms of pacing, suspense, planting clues, etc.
Like about the rushed, implausibly set-up trip to Istanbul, near the end.
But there is still something nostalgic and charming and wonderful about good old Nancy Drew, and when I read this book as an artifact from a time capsule, I found ways to quit rolling my eyes and be a little more generous.
The Mysterious Mannequin, by Carolyn Keene, is the 47th book in the Nancy Drew series, and is a very interesting book, and is a book that you won’t be able to put down.The story starts when Nancy Drew gets a mysterious package, from Istanbul, Turkey, but does not know who it is from.
Nancy soon finds out that it has a secret message sewn into it with symbols, saying to find a mannequin and bring it to Istanbul.
Nancy soon finds out that this was from one of her father’s friend’s who was accused of smuggling, and then he jetted off to Istanbul.
Nancy now must locate the beloved mannequin, and return it to it’s owner in Turkey.
Update 4/5/2015: The ways in which the mystery in this book is nonsensical, let me count them.
But I loved it when I was a kid (especially the beautiful cover), and I believe it was Nancy Drew who made a traveler of me, years before I actually had the chance to go.
hoax!), not to mention bits of information, which is why I've never been able to fathom why people turned up their noses at these books.(original: The setting in Turkey is great, and I love the clues hidden in the rug.)
This book is one of my all-time favorites! I must have reread this one at least a dozen times in elementary school. It starts out with the delivery of an Oriental Rug, and, when they unroll it, the mystery begins. I SOOO wanted to be Nancy Drew when I was younger (and date Ned)....though, as I got older, I started to get annoyed with how she NEVER got hurt (though she was bit by a spider once). Still, great stories.
As always, this Nancy Drew mystery was an enjoyable light read. I just wonder on what planet, you can ask your friends to go to Turkey with you on 2 days notice, and everyone gets a yes from their parents. #suspensionofdisbelief
This one was my favorite of all the Nancy Drew Books!
I loved reading Nancy Drew when I was child that I decided to buy a few and begin reading them again.
My third favorite Nancy Drew! It has a very unexpected ending.
This book was so cute! The rug, the "manequin" the guy at the end? Was it not cool?
Really enjoyed this one, one of the better novels in the series.Lots of twists and turns in the plot.
Great Nancy Drew mystery.
LOL! I love Nancy Drew!
The book is about a girl name Nancy Drew that gets a mysterious package, from Istanbul, Turkey, but does not know who it is from.
when Nancy looks inside the package she found a turkish carpet with a weird design on it.
Nancy also learns that this was from one of her father’s friend’s who was accused of smuggling, and then he jetted off to Istanbul.
Now Nancy has to figure out how to locate the mannequin, and return it to it’s owner in Turkey.
This book is for any student that loves to read Nancy Drew mystery chapter books.
This was a good one, I remember reading this one I think when I was little. She always has pieces fall into place for her. She needs to go to Turkey? No problem, an acquaintance she just happened to meet owns a travel agency who just happens to have a trip to Turkey planned leaving in 2 days. They need 8 spots? No problem, a cancellation - now there are 8 spots. Ned needs $ for the trip? He just sold an insurance policy and he can use his commission for the trip! :)
I know my niece will enjoy this book. there are a few things that are annoying to me, like the fact that Nancy kept a secret through 90% of the book (an obvious one, but still). I like that it has the cultural morals of the 50's, which is good for a young Mormon book worm like my niece.
My very first book! My first love ❤
It was so confusing. I literally skipped paragraphs just to get to the ending
Sweet story of reunited love, with the usual mystery of a Nancy Drew book
This was one of my favorites as a girl
His book has a great twist, and strange villains!
Sometimes I just need a good old Nancy Drew mystery.
AMAZING!!!!!!🤩
one of my favorites
I understand this book was written a pretty long time ago and is meant for a younger audience, but the writing was crap and the story was not believable.
Nancy's dad gets a turkish rug from a client who went on the lam.
His father just happened to have a travel agency that had a trip to Istanbul planned.
There was the random guy who threw a hissy fit at Nancy in the restaurant.
Then Nancy is pushed into the cistern, but is ok because the water softened the blow?!
Night after night she said, "yes." Night after night I read this book.
"Are you sure you want to keep reading this?" "Yes"-sigh-
The Mysterious Mannequin  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 47th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. The strange disappearance of a young Turkish client of Mr. Drew's, and the gift of an Oriental rug with a coded message woven into its decorative border, start Nancy on a difficult search for a missing mannequin. Tracking down the intricate trail of clues takes Nancy and her friends to Turkey, and their sleuthing leads them to the Grand Bazaar in the exotic city of Istanbul
The strange disappearance of a young Turkish client of Mr. Drew's, and the gift of an Oriental rug with a coded message woven into its decorative border, start Nancy on a difficult search for a missing mannequin.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
Anyway, after how many years of not reading one of the Nancy Drew books, I found the dialogues weird and cheesy.
I think I am too old for the series, because of my said comment, but that does not stop me from attaining one of my ambitions.
I lost my grasp on how I used to read the book.
It does not matter, I just have to relearn it again.I think Nancy has a severe case of paranoia that is probably why she became a detective in the first place.
Little sparks of rhetorical questions come alight on the pages and I think her mind is a scary place to dwell in.
