https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9151181-onward
Throughout the book he laments the fact that during Starbucks rapid expansion the company had moved from manual espresso machines to an automatic espresso machine preventing customers from truly experiencing this art.
Yet several chapters later he justifies, and exemplifies using a new automatic machine over a return to a manual machine because it is "4 inches shorter" and allows better interaction with the barista.It is clear that Schultz sees himself as a knight riding in on a white horse rescuing one of America's premier companies - in turn we should all be thankful to him, flocking to Starbucks outlets, praising their progressive business model and the man responsible for it all.
I'm sure there were similar voices for Sorbetto, but they are not discussed.They also call employees at Starbucks "partners", which they clearly are not, at least not in the traditional sense of the word.
To me, this "partner" phrase just emphasizes the fact that they aren't, and comes across as insincere.
But every time I read it, I kept thinking it meant some kind of vendor or something, and then realized, oh no, it's their code word for employees.So, I can't say I recommend it, even if you're interested in coffee.
A classic example of this is the author's breathless account of someone coming up with a good idea on a flight back to Seattle and his pride in the fact that he was able to approve the concept and get committment to a date from others on the ground so that by the time they arrived everything was in place.
There is a great deal of this kind of thing in this book, and in my experience dealing with American business, such freneticism is all too common.
There is a great deal of pride expressed here in doing more with less - but that cannot go on forever.
1. It felt a lot like a promotional brochure for Starbucks instead of a business book.
You don't need to repeat that 287 times throughout a 380-page book.
Howard Schultz keeps talking about how their sales dropped in 2008 because they didn't follow their values anymore, and how they got back on their feet in 2010 because they came back to those values.
So I ended up giving it an "okay" rating, even though I honestly can't find any redeeming qualities here.I read Delivering Happiness: A Path to Profits, Passion, and Purpose and very much liked it at the time.
It was one of the first business books I've read.
In attempting to paint a victorious picture of his takeover of the company and his underlying philosophy of passion and integrity, Howard Schultz has instead revealed his hyperactive and scattered management style; his penchant for distrusting his own employees and bringing in outsiders (at great cost, I’m sure) to make important decisions; his combination of self-doubt and hubris and sensitivity to criticism that keep him from ever finding that soul he insists he and his company have already claimed.Schultz titles the first section of his frenetically-organized book “Love,” and begins with the tough-love decisions he made; first, to close all the stores for four hours in February 2008 to retrain baristas at 7,100 stores on pulling good espresso shots and steaming milk.

An interesting book that describes Howards return to CEO and the challenges of getting Starbucks back on track after massive scaling and the economic downturn of 2008 left it in a vulnerable position.
Howard comes across as someone that loves Starbucks - the company he created.
"The Transformation Agenda" - because sometimes if you give change a name people will believe it's coming.I enjoyed reading about the campaign to close all Starbucks stores to let employees watch a training video.
The baristas were crucial, because with over 20 thousand stores, he had to create programs to train them and make sure they had the right values and approach.
It's fun to read about the inner-workings of such a high profile company.I'm an orthodox Mormon, and don't drink coffee.
Not because I'm going to become a regular coffee drinker--because I want to taste their different roasts, machines, and cappuccinos for context.
Amazingly, I didn't go to Starbucks and get five different blends of coffee and line them up and taste them, even though I really wanted to while reading this book.
For those who don't know, Schultz worked at a gourmet coffee distribution company called Starbucks.
So Schultz went and opened up several consumer coffee retail stores and when he became big enough, he purchased Starbucks, the distribution company.
Onward tells the story of the CEOs return to Starbucks when he notices it is in the process of slowly self-destructing.
The book suffers from ghostwriting and feels like propaganda, but the story it tells is real and worth reading.Let me start with my complaints before I get into why I like this book.
One of the projects he was immensely proud of was the Starbucks "Via" product (freeze-dried coffee), and he has a right to be--it's the only instant coffee which smells and tastes like the real thing.So, even though this book feels dishonest, I felt that the actual message and stories were real, inspiring, and completely worth reading.
HS believed pour of espresso was an art and needed to be done right.
He wanted workers to be facing the customers and showing them the art of the work in preparing their drinks.When you put this all together, you should be able to walk into a Starbucks and have it feel familiar (but local in taste), see the workers facing the customer as they perform the art of espresso pour, and the smell of coffee in the air.***Onwards will leave you with a new appreciation for business done right.
Bullet Review:Simply put: this is a good book if you love Starbucks, are interested in how Starbucks made such a drastic change or understand (or want to understand) the inner workings of a big business.I drink at Starbucks (almost exclusively the Clover, which I find superior to their standard espresso), but I am none of those three things. That said, I can definitely see this being a 4-star read in a different readers hand.Your Mileage May Vary.
Read this for a twenty page report in business school back in 2011. Entertaining read. The author grew up poor and I admire his humility balanced by intelligence and skill. He went to Italy and brought back the layout idea for Starbucks.Highly recommended for nonfiction lovers.
Schultz spends a lot of time describing his and others angst over decisions and cheerleading about passion, which are all too common in these types of books.
The Clover machine sounds wonderful, but even now, two years after the book was written, they aren't in many stores, and that isn't explained in the book.
Schultz describes using "lean" concepts in optimizing store operations, and that, along with the Clover story, shows great use of the "time and motion" school of optimization.
He even describes how the stores went from bean grinding once a day to once a pot to better optimize the customer experience of the smell of the coffee shop.
Actually, it reads more like a biography written by someone else.
On top of being rather dry and impersonal, Onward is also extremely repetitive at times (I can definitely point to a few places where Copy and Paste were utilized) and the organization of the book really needed some work.Having worked as a barista at Starbucks for almost two years, up nearly through the end of 2008, I was already familiar with a lot of the new products and initiatives Schultz outlines in this book.
If you're a really really big fan of Starbucks and don't already have an inside view of their mission, vision, and philanthropic initiatives then sure, give this book a read.
And how by becoming very clear on those values and how they inform the strategy, Mr. Schultz was able to go back to the roots of what made Starbucks great while moving forward to face current challenges and future opportunities.
He illustrates clearly the challenges and rewards that come with staying the same (values) while being open to changing everything else.As a Starbucks fan, I thank Mr. Schultz for his strengthening the company I love.
Even further, I thank Mr. Schultz for writing this book and sharing with others how a values based approach is not only doable, but also financially rewarding!
The problem with this book is that it is written by a person with a very biased point of view, namely, the ceo of the company.
ceo's are excellent in sugarcoating and this book is no exception.Yes, he talks about the day-to-day operations of the company, the ups & downs.
Not realistic.But I also catch myself talking about the bad stuff and not the good parts.
So here goes: The way he goes into detail about company growth, organisation and motivating and inspiring people is really interesting and should provide you with enough inside information.
Wow. At first, I thought this book would be boring because who really wants to read about the fall and rise of a company that has taken over the world?
And the fact that I try not to buy Starbucks coffee because I want to support my local, independent coffeehouses...
While I will still continue to support my local coffeehouses first, trips to Starbucks won't feel like I'm cheating on the local guys from here on out.
All too often, it's easy to get wrapped up in churning out more stores and seeking world domination but because of the glimpse the company got of their apparent downfall has helped them to turn around and refocus on what was more important....people.
It was nice reading the challenges of Howard's journey as an entrepreneur and how he had to innovate to get Starbucks back on the map, but he could've written that in 20 pages not 300. The rest of the book was very boring and I got sick of hearing how so many things were "on the line" and the company was at stake as if no other company has problems.You could do without this one.
Very interesting story from the founder of the international and very popular Starbucks company Howard Schulz on how the company has reached its peak of popularity and development and how it fought for its survival against the backdrop of the global financial crisis in 2008.
In my opinion, Howard very successfully described the company's values, which were always with the company and saved it even after major financial difficulties.
One thing this book proves is that Schultz knows and loves coffee!
Make no mistake -- this is a CEO book.
While I understand that it was to demonstrate how different projects and events came to pass, it was a bit jarring to go from Schultz being 4 months into his CEO post back in time to the meetings he had two months before he decided to take the post.
Reading the transcripts from memos, meetings & earning calls grew tiresome.
But if you like real-life stories of corporate derring-do, pick up this grande sized read.
The first half of the book was interesting, how the coffee shop got started and how Howard Schultz gained his power back at CEO and basically re branding the product.
Both CEO's are strong opinionated and like Jobs, Schultz almost always got his way.
The most interesting part was their outdated computer system and point of sales, even in the millennium decade The first half was enough to get your tea pot whistling, but after that, it smelled like a day old coffee that has turned over and over.
A book about the lows and highs of a coffeehouse tycoon man who wanted to share a different kind of experience to the world - the Starbucks Experience.
Tackles mostly the challenges the Starbucks HQ had to take on especially during 2008 - their high growth years, which was coupled with a crippling recession.It's a great look into the struggles of a man dedicated to not only deliver a product but also a service.
(view spoiler)[(I like how they closed all those stores simultaneously to provide for training, and, oh, the breakfast sandwich debate, hah.
And the betrayal, ooooh!) (hide spoiler)]Insightful read, though it kind of makes one wonder what would happen to the huge coffeehouse chain once Schultz steps down for good.
I found this book to be a page-turner.
Now I admit, I am biased when it comes to Starbucks, as I'm a proud addict.
I loved the first book by Howard and this one, although totally different in subject matter, impressed me.
I found it very compelling to hear how Howard carefully evaluated the diluted state of Starbucks and analyzed what had gone wrong, what was missing.
I also love that this book shares months and years of continued struggles and some hits/misses-- it's not all about "Starbucks can do no wrong"...this is about a business totally digging deep and making some changes to stay competitive.
Some of facts and figures gave me even more respect for the giant organization. The lessons learned and presented here are fantastic for leaders of even small businesses. I saw many opportunities to integrate the tidbits important to me and my business and look forward to the change that comes with learning! This CEO is a leader and learner in the highest sense of the word!!! I'm not even a coffee drinker and enjoyed it! ;-)
Loooved the way it is written, with the cadence of a novel. A different way to see the trouble moments of a big brand. Although it's coordinated to give a good image of it and it's written by his ceo, you can learn a lot from the business, core and personality of the brand.A very good and fast lecture book, it can give you some ideas of what to do or how to innovate with your own business.
"At the heart of every merchant is a desire to tell a story by making sensible, emotional connections." A nice detailed record about what Starbucks did to recover from the crisis. However, the book is not as inspiring as the first volume and even a bit lengthy and self-promoted at some points.
Great book on the culture and growth of the company.
OK, from the business angle this was very interesting. The boastful tone definitely detracted but it is still very enlightening.
It’s hard to review a book that was written with such passion and heart.
This book was written by the CEO of Starbucks who clearly loves his company and eats, sleeps, and breathes his passion.
This reminds me of Hit Refresh, written by the CEO of Microsoft, which I reviewed earlier this year.
Both books were written with such passion and went so far into depth, that it lost me, the average reader.
Did this book convince me to buy Starbucks stock?
No. Did it convince me to go out and buy a Starbucks drink?
Schultz's path to success involved restoring that core vision, and taking practical steps toward realizing it.Some of the insights into a strong leader stayed with me (the captions are my own)- "Remember your most importance audience- the people who work for you." One might be tempted to think that Schultz would see customers as his most important audience.
The companies that are lasting are those that are authentic.” ― Howard Schultz, Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time-----“Every step of the way, I made it a point to underpromise and overdeliver.
