https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11410430-defiance
But, so you can see some of the reasons while I wanted to desperately to strangle Logan, here are some of the things he's said to Rachel, done to Rachel, and thought about Rachel, throughout Defiance (or at least throughout the first half, because after that point I just didn't care anymore and started skimming.):[...] and then I'm going to lock her in my loft for as long as it takes.
We have nothing more to discuss."and,"I [Rachel] am an equal part in this whole thing, and I want to help you find supplies." "Well, you can't." [Logan says]So now you're acting like her father and controlling what she can and cannot do?
Back when I was less likely to see the huge gaping holes in it.I judge a book on the entire story and effect, but also look at individual things - characters, writing, world-building and plot.
Every bit of drama is created out of Rachel and Logan constantly screwing up their plans and getting themselves in a load of trouble.
Because of Rachel's idiotic actions, Logan gets caught up in it too.Then there's this world.
It’s just a bit of added drama to try and draw out sympathy for Rachel (it doesn't work).The sexism is just one more element of this book that hasn't been thought about.
But, you know, I see the Commander doing exactly what he has to do to save the rest of the town, and this fixation on how evil Chase is and needs to go just shows me Redwine is unwilling to tackle the potential complexities that could've been with the character and took the easy way out instead.I don't have a problem with Rachel or Logan, the characters, but honestly the tough orphan girl with emotional problems and the possessive guy who won't admit his feelings are a dime a dozen in young adult books, particularly dystopians.
So instead, I’ll tell you that hope is precious and you’re right not to give up.”Gorgeous cover (the real reason I picked up the book, actually😜), gorgeous character and plot development, gorgeous Logan and Rachel...
He can figure out almost any problem that’s thrown at him and he’s the complete perfect match for Rachel!
He’s fiercely protective of her and loves her to death but he doesn’t try to smother her with his protectiveness or try to lock her up in a gilded cage to keep her safe.
He knows she’s a strong independent woman who can take care of herself and he loves her for it.
Once Commander Chase declares her father dead, Rachel Adams wastes no time in trying to come up with a plan to find him.
Because Defiance is written in dual POVs, we get to experience both Rachel and Logan's thoughts and experiences when they're separated.
The tension between the two of them in the first half of the book is written perfectly - but then suddenly I feel like it fizzled out.
It's easy to see that the world Rachel and Logan live in is dangerous.
*“It’s probably my job to tell you life isn’t fair, but I figure you already know that….So instead, I’ll tell you that hope is precious, and you’re right not to give up.” Seventeen year-old Rachel Adams can’t believe it when all the searches are called off, and her father, Jared, is declared dead. He is the best tracker/courier for the city state of Baalboden. Rachel’s heart is crushed with grief and despair, but she knows deep down that if anyone can make it in the Wastelands that lie beyond t
Seventeen year-old Rachel Adams can’t believe it when all the searches are called off, and her father, Jared, is declared dead.
She is beyond shocked when Logan McEntire, her father’s apprentice and the one man she’s been avoiding for the last two years, is named as her Protector.
Nineteen year-old Logan is shocked to find out he’s been assigned as Protector over Rachel, the daughter of the man he considers his father.
They figure out he doesn’t believe Jared is dead either and is suspicious that Logan or Rachel know he’s not.
And to think, once upon a time I gave this book 5 stars and endless praise.
It's amazing how opinions can change within a few years, huh?This book was fine.
My tastes have since developed and I no longer find much unique about this book.
You know how I usually say that there are some slower-paced, character-focused books that could still keep my interest?
This book is the epitome of action-packed, but it stull left me yawning and it was very putdownable.
It was just...fine.I'll still finish the series, if not only for the sake of finishing it cause I own all 3 books.
2.5 stars.
For some reason I expected this to be more YA fantasy with castles & magic (maybe it was the cover).
The whole story, characters, setting, and basically everything were super forgettable to the point where I feel like I just had my mind wiped right after finishing the book.
Basically, nothing stood out for me (good or bad).
I think if I had gotten to this before a lot of other similar books I might have liked it more, though.
It wasn't bad!!
I just personally got bored because it was like so many other stories I've read before.
Even the romance, which I loved because of its slow build-up and interesting twists, was something I didn’t care for because it was the love story of  Rachel and Logan.
I read in another review that this was a futuristic realm where man had dug down so deep that they had awoken a beast, The Cursed One, who terrorized the people in this story, but this book could just as easily have been set in a fantasy realm or on another planet for all I know!
The romance was multilayered and complicated, just the way I like them, and I was feeling things along with Rachel and Logan from the very first page.
There were, however, hints of a love triangle in the last part and I fervently hope that C.J. Redwine won’t take that road and that she’ll continue to build the wonderful, honest, warm romance between Rachel and Logan without unnecessary drama.
Those are very big right now.”“Well, she uses weapons, but technically—““Good, make sure you stress that she’s a Strong Female Character.
The overall tone I got from the book is “people keep saying this is wrong so I guess I should too, but I kind of get off on this.”And that made me very uncomfortable.Rachel is also a textbook case of how not to write a Strong Female Character.
I thought her character growth would be her developing beyond this tantrum-throwing, but nope, apparently we’re supposed to admire her “spirit.” Though I didn’t mind Rachel in principle, the more people went on about how strong and awesome she was, the more I hated it.
In a futuristic setting with walled-in cities to stave off a monstrous killing machine, Defiance is a mix of dystopian and fantasy that has a very interesting premise, although its characters did leave me feeling kind of uncomfortable, as well as annoyed.
As for our male lead, Logan, he comes off as a very condescending love interest who acts more like he's highly irritated by Rachel than he's (apparently) falling in love with her.
I never grew to like him one bit, consequently making the romance in this book fall flat for me.
I thought it was neat at the beginning but the same thing every other chapter got old and brought on pain every time Logan’s POV came up.
The only good character was her father but he is in so very little of the book that for that reason alone might be why I liked him the most.I wasn’t sure if I really believed Rachel and Logan should even be together.
I was left feeling disappointed and yet again annoyed during the majority of this book.40% in I was having a hard time getting through.
I found this intriguing enough to continue on in the series, but I didn't really feel like this first book in the series was all that amazing. It took forever to read, and nothing truly exciting enough to draw me in happened.I liked the main characters, and some of the things that happened to them made me sad. I liked how it drew them closer though. I am excited to continue on in this series sometime down the road. Probably sooner, rather than later.come find me:www.facebook.com/ReadsAshIG: ash.reads Twitter: @ReadsAsh
finished it! this book....sigh. I love it. love, love LOVE it. Rachel is so tough, but she has pain in her that fuels her on. Logan- sexy. That's all I'm going to say about him, because what girl DOESN'T want a sexy inventor boy who can fight? It's chilling, has amazing characters, and the story is fresh and unique to what's out there right now. I LOVED IT.I read through it pretty quick, despite the fact that I'm knee-deep in edits, and I can't wait to buy a finished copy! Congrats, CJ. You're a lovely storyteller!
2.5 stars This was...fine. But felt like an urban fantasy set in a fantasy/dystopian world, and I didn't really care that much about the characters.I did like the way some of the action scenes were written, and the (view spoiler)[person under the cloth (hide spoiler)] was genuinely shocking. It was the only time I felt emotion while reading this, though.
But every time I tried, I ended up with something like OMCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC!!!!!!!In case that wasn’t clear enough for you: I love this book.There were so many things that thrilled me about DEFIANCE, from the characters to the worldbuilding to the gorgeous prose that pulled me so deep into the story I never wanted to leave.
DEFIANCE was one of those rare perfect-for-me reads.The story is told from two points of view, Rachel and Logan, and the story belongs to both of them equally.
Both Rachel and Logan are defiance personified.
1.5 starsWell, T.I.A.  1It’s been a while since I’ve found it such a struggle to finish a book. I’m not going to sugarcoat this, I wouldn’t have reached the end of Defiance without resorting to pep-talks, a bit of page-skimming and outright bribery. ”You can do it! Finish this chapter and then you can eat all the chocolate in the house!” Is anyone able to clear something up for me? Does Defiance take place in the future of our world, or an alternate world? Because if it’s ours, and Redwine is su
Because if it’s ours, and Redwine is suggesting that the modern world was destroyed by fire-breathing reptiles and within fifty years surviving mankind has returned to swords and “Cursed Ones”, I have a hard time swallowing that.
The romance is probably the most developed element of the story, and it’s constantly in the background of the plot, yet it was also the undoing of this novel for me.
I can only describe the writing as gluggy: my brain my kept getting bogged down in Logan and Rachel’s angsting, and getting through pages began to feel like a chore.
The closeness of them had a smile on my face, especially the moments between Rachel and Oliver.
Her father Jared (who has disappeared ) we don't get much screen time with but we get a good sense of him through the other's memories.
Living under the rule of that man *shudders * I'm not sure if I would survive in the wasteland but not sure how I would do in the wasteland either.The world building wasn't very in depth but you get enough to get a sense of the history of it all for the moment.
Defiance, at its best, is an inventive, creative and unpredictable novel, and for me, that was enough to merit an somewhat enthusiastic review.The setting of tyrant-controlled Baalboden and the destroyed world Rachel and Logan live in is both a strength and a weakness for Defiance.
I like flawed characters, I appreciate them much more than a perfect protagonist with no life or vivacity, but Rachel can sometimes be very frustrating to read because she is so determined to make her own way without telling anyone or trusting her family.
Dystopian books can be hit or miss, but I kept hearing good things about the story and characters.
One thing I wasn't prepared for, though, is how dark and gritty these books actually get.
The author is not afraid to make her characters experience pain, suffering, and heartbreak; she pushes Rachel and Logan past their limits and there were times I could hardly stand to read it.
Themes of revenge, justice, grief, and guilt are explored in detail, and the characters are tested emotionally and physically in ways I hope never to experience.Read the full series review here.
5/5hace rato necesitaba un libro que tuviera todo:- chica valiente y luchadora-chico sexy e indiferente- romance y rechazo- pelea, luchas, batallas- y mucha sangreme agrado de principio a fin porque tiene todo lo que antes dije y me parecio interesante la historia. Me gusto mucho la química de Logan y Rachel, (a Logan me lo imagine como Logan Lerman aunque no tiene nada que ver).Me gusto mucho como se describe el paisaje y el tiempo en que esta. Es uno de mis libros preferidos y se los recomiendo.
Quotes have been pulled from an ARC and may be subject to change.Rachel Adams lives in a city called Balboden where the women are meant to be obedient and docile (Yikes!
Rachel lives with her father Jared the city's best tracker and courier, and her father's apprentice Logan.
Once her father doesn't come back from one of his jobs, Rachel recruits Logan to help her find him, and together they unravel the secret of the Commander's power over the Chosen One.The history of how Balboden came to be was rather deficient in details and being the curious person that I am wanted more information.
“I'm no longer a daughter.No longer a granddaughter.No longer a girl with dreams. With hope.I'm a weapon, now.” I hate this book with the heat of a thousand suns! The "post-apocalyptic" setting was one of the most ridiculous settings I've ever come across:-The "city" of Baalboden was a glorified fortified village. -We have not idea who are the Rowansmarks exactly and why they are building weapons to obliterate other communities starting with Baalboden. -No idea what the heck is "The Cursed One"
The "post-apocalyptic" setting was one of the most ridiculous settings I've ever come across:-The "city" of Baalboden was a glorified fortified village.
-We have not idea who are the Rowansmarks exactly and why they are building weapons to obliterate other communities starting with Baalboden.
My original assumptions about her as a selfish 16 year old flew straight out of the window as she matured rapidly.I liked how Redwine made Defiance a dual pov book, Rachel was an interesting character, but I loved getting into Logan’s head too!
I hope in the next book we learn a lot more about his back story, he certainly had a shady past, which I’d like to delve a lot deeper into.The Commander was a right piece of work; he was a character which had a constant buzz around him, as he always had something up his sleeve which would have me stunned or so worked up that I just wanted to punch him.
The plot, twist and character blend it effectively to make a really interesting, thrilling and gripping action-packed story.I love heroines who fights and knows her ways when it comes to weapons.
His brain was his most effective weapon and he did prove it a lot of times in the story.I love how these two developed and grew through the unexpected situations they were thrown into and discovered new things about their selves.
And I just love how the realizations of their feelings came to them.The plot was great and action-packed, the twist were thrilling and exciting and the characters were all remarkable and amazing.
One of the few people that is able to leave the walls is courier Jared Adams, Rachel’s father, and he never returned from his last mission…DEFIANCE is a book that I had trouble putting down.
(Just look at that amazing cover and you’ll see how kickass Rachel’s character truly is).Logan McEntire sees too much of his mother in Rachel.
A brilliant inventor and big-hearted protector, Logan cannot allow Rachel to know his true feelings for her because Jared was so willing to help him after his mother’s death and he didn’t want to bite the hand that fed him.
Her father's apprentice, her Protector, her tech-head, her heart and her soul, Logan is just as determined as Rachel to stop at nothing to always be there for her, and keep her out of harms way.
He is the reason for so much suffering within the walls and why he needs to be brought down.Revenge and redemption take front in this story full of suspense and told by both Rachel and Logan, Defiance is one of those books that will ensure you keep turning the pages, because you really can't stop and beg you to come back for more…I know that I can't wait to continue on with this series, and can't wait to see what's install for both Rachel and Logan.
I’d like to start this review by saying that I loved this novel to bits.
Let me start again.Defiance proved to be everything I look for in a novel that I read for entertainment.
(I’m getting remarkably tired of this particular trope if you can’t tell.)Defiance succeeds for me in its characterizations.
I am fine with hating him as passionately as the novel calls for because had Redwine taken the modernist approach and given us a Loki, I don’t think I would have enjoyed the book as much as I did.Rachel’s emotions are superbly expressed.
This book is set in a world where civilization has been destroyed by creatures that live beneath the earth’s surface that were awoken by people drilling for a new source of renewable fuel??
The part of the book that I read never said what exactly they were being protected from, but surly (even if men are going to be really sexist) they have better thing to do(considering civilization is in ruins) than escort women everywhere they need to go.And if you were going to change society to deal with disgruntled creatures with sensitive ears, wouldn’t banning loud noises and making sure people only communicate in sign language make far more sense than oppressing women?
