https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11235.The_Unicorn
Like a mix of PG Wodehouse and English country house mystery on West End stage, with religious symbolism (unicorn=purity) thrown in. Unsettlingly creepy, but subtle and thought-provoking.
I'm reading her because I read an interesting article recently that suggested that she and I have some overlapping ideas about morality.
This is the opposite: there is no surface, just interpretations, and we are already inside from the get-go.
Way inside, like Effingham sinking in the swamp.(That's the one thing I didn't quite believe: why didn't that sinking change him more?)And that makes no sense, but you see, that's the crux of the matter: we are both neo-touchy-feely-ists.
The most important sense is intuitive sense.(I like this very much, but am gently suggesting that I can't tell if it's a good book by any objective measure.
A partir de ese momento, la novela desemboca en una espiral de acontecimientos marcados por violentas pasiones y arrebatos de una fiereza inusitada.Sin perder nunca el control de los hilos que entretejen la trama, Iris Murdoch transforma a sus personajes en elementos de una epopeya moral y filosófica donde conceptos como el amor, el bien y el mal, el deseo, la culpa, el arrepentimiento y la expiación son sometidos al juicioso examen de diversas interpretaciones, fundamentalmente la cristiana y la platónica.
Marian is a husk, and while Effingham is more complicated, the author doesn't place him in a setting where his character can be examined.The second half of the book dissolves into a ludicrous mess where characters pair-off left and right, declare love willy-nilly, and act one way and then another because they are supposedly under the "spell" of Hannah and Gaze.
We want to call this novel philosophical not because it sheds light on the nature of life, love, exsistence, guilt or any of the subjects that we are concerned with, but because it's seems to be going on about something that sounds important.
4.5 *I don't know what to make of this yet, but it is excellently written. The philosophical touches and the eerie atmosphere are a delight and as always with Murdoch, I finish reading the last page of the book and I cannot stop thinking about the themes, the symbols and the big questions she raises.
In what seems a pivotal chapter (chapter 12) a discussion between Max and Effingham seems to get at the heart of what really drove Murdoch to write this novel – to explore using fiction philosophy and Plato over Freud, as well as the medieval, chivalrous, religious and philosophical concepts of beauty, guilt, of sacrifice, of pure love 
And in case it is not clear to us, a series of quotes signal the ending of the story, its imaginative nature and the return of both our two point-of-view characters (Marian and Effingham) and the reader to normal life
She's similar to D.H. Lawrence in this respect (or Ayn Rand or Walker Percy); according to a paper I read, Murdoch is a follower of Plato (and a rejector of many Freudian theories), and there are many references to both Plato and Freud in this book.
She believes that beating the ego down is the only hope humanity has at true goodness.
Hannah in this book exemplifies at least the attempt to achieve this: by accepting her own human nature and that of her husband, she lives w/ the guilt of her adultry and her husband's almost-death, and she spends seven years in repentance.
Some readers will be frustrated by Murdoch’s ambiguity and that the meaning of the story is open to a wide variety of interpretations.The story begins when Marian Taylor, a thirty-year-old former schoolteacher, arrives at Gaze Castle to perform the duties of governess.
Arriving at Gaze is like going back in time, and it frightens Marian.
Marian wants to help Hannah escape from Gaze, and the question of how to release Hannah from her prison drives much of the plot.The narrative structure of the novel offers the events of the story through two points of view—Marian’s and Effingham Cooper’s.
However, that didn’t detract at all from the storyline for me—I knew it was making my poor brain work a little harder to find clarity.Murdoch has created quite the allegorical and mythological gothic story, full of allusions to unicorns, vampires, mermaids, Maid Marian, Christ, a captive princess—and all in the name of discussing the true nature of good and evil, guilt and redemption, duty and honor, self-imprisonment vs.
They were large still tears such as men weep in solitude over beautiful things.
To weep like that over a human being was a most desolate homage.”Quiet and gentle yet menacing all the same.
You gotta love the seventies. The blurb on the back of my used Avon paperback:"ONLY IRIS MURDOCH" (in super-ugly font) "could combine the popular Gothic tale with modern psychological insights to make a story which terrifies as it reveals the secret agonies of desire. In this remarkable novel, a young woman takes a governess' position because she is intrigued by the name of Castle Gaze. As she probes the" (what are secrets?*) "dark secrets of the castle's" (what are the residents?) "tortured residents, events spiral** to a" (climaxes are always....) "stunning climax."*with apologies to Flann O'Brien**don't spirals typically go down?
A young woman takes a post as governess at Gaze Castle, remote and ancient and crumbling on a desolate coast that feels Irish or Cornish.
Instead she is meant to be a companion and sort of tutor to Alice, a childless woman who has been deserted by her husband.
Marian soon finds herself under the woman's spell but entirely out of her depth among the strange collection of inhabitants in the castle.There are mysteries.
Marian, young and idealistic, resolves to free Alice from her self-imposed isolation, having determined that it is the others in the household who are keeping her a sort of prisoner.
When she gets there, she finds she isn’t to be teaching a child, but more or less acting as a companion to Mrs Hannah Crean-Smith, who doesn’t leave the grounds of her large house, Gaze, which sits between a treacherous bog and some black sandstone cliffs overlooking an even more dangerous sea.
Marian, like everyone at Gaze and its environs, soon falls into thinking about everything in terms of Hannah, who’s likened at various times to a vampire, a ‘false God’, and the unicorn of the title.
Although I appreciate the death of one of your characters as a dramatic tool, it can also be quite exhausting (and even tedious!) for the reader to have nearly each chapter introduce a new death.
It had been a long time since I responded in such a physical way to a book.
Furthermore, the book appeals to every aspect of your being: Murdoch's references to religion and existentialism offer food for thought, while the plot itself arouses emotions of empathy, fear and pity.
There's just one thing I thought to be lacking throughout the book: humour.
But, well, what do I know – maybe humour would've weakened the horror of the plot.
I have never been to Ireland myself (yet), but merely looking at pictures of these places just to have the image in my head when I read the story, made me think that Ireland was the perfect place for such a gothic story to unravel.The book begins with one of the main characters, Marian Taylor, who has been given the job of a governess in a remotely placed castle in the west coast of Ireland.
i have not read much gothic, so i do not know how it uses gothic structures beyond the obvious:castle, sublime isolation, dangerous heath, bogs, rivers, sea, violent loves, emotional, irrational, religious motivations, mythic plot, dark legends, captive woman, semi-feudal, everyone has secrets, guilt…sounds like i could follow it?
yes and no.
i do not know.
all, towards the end in particular, are almost ridiculously self-aware.
how this captive unicorn came to be imprisoned by no force but herself.
how her cruel, wounded, brutal husband returns at the end of her seven years- i wanted them to clash.
i wanted fireworks.
The first two thirds of the book are intriguing and there is the exact minimum amount of action and revelations that will just about keep you interested. This section passes as an interesting read, which is why i have given 2 stars.However, you are left feeling as though something is about to happen, though little in fact ever does. We are left with unanswered questions and disappointment.The book tries to make the reader contemplate morality and other elements of philosophy, but is on the whole a very dull and unsatisfactory read.Can't really recommend this book to anybody.3 out of 10
i can't say i loved it but i will say i read it months ago, and it has stayed with me. while i read it, it haunted me. yes, the characters are for the most part preposterous, and yet... i love the old professor. --it's now been years, and it's still haunting me. i think i will re-read this again in 2013, and re-assess -- i suspect it will receive a higher rating now that i have a better understanding of murdoch's writing.
Elements of fairy tales, legends, tragedy, and comedy mix to create a weird and wonderful brew.Marian Taylor answered an advertisement to be a governess at Gaze Castle, a manor house by the remote seaside.
A theme of this work is being trapped by suffering (one's own and other people's), bound by it and unable or unwilling to escape.I think it's extremely effective that the 3rd person POV follows the two characters who are interlopers on the enchanted scene, coming to it from the ordinary world.
Gaze Castle feels like a living thing, a character.
To add to this gothic atmosphere the novel is filled with allusions to fairytales such as Sleeping Beauty, to spirituality, both pagan and Christian, but far more to spells and magic, the notion of an Enchanter again rears its head in Iris Murdoch’s fiction and it is probably Flight of the Enchanter that this novel is most reminiscent of.The two main narrators are Marian, the young governess and Effingham Cooper, both outsiders that are caught up in the household drama which is gradually revealed to Marian as the novel progresses and she becomes closer to Hannah, the lady of the house.
This book started out like a Victorian novel, with a young woman traveling to the country to be a governess....but things are much different than she expected. I had the same problem I always have with Iris Murdoch novels..her writing, scene setting and characterization is excellent but her plots always seem so unbelievable and somewhat farce filled that I lose interest. Maybe I am just not “getting” something?
I picked The Unicorn because it was small enough to carry with me back and forth on the train and because the one-sentence synopsis pasted inside the otherwise completely blank cover sounded interesting enough: "A London girl, hired as a companion and tutor, attempts to rescue her mistress who is kept a virtual prisoner by her guardians in a castle on the wild Celtic coast." (You see, the Murdoch books that were not the size of breadboxes were all bound 70s-style in green or orange or gold cloth with no text or embellishment other than the title and author's name on the spine.
I guess, simplest answer, is that it had almost everything I like in a novel; desolate setting, weird characters, tragedy/tragic romance, and it makes you think about it when you’re done.
I would argue that the story is actually about Marian rather than Hannah – while Hannah is the one who drives the action, it’s Marian who learns from it, who changes throughout the novel.
The novel is not just a story about a crazy lady in an old house – it’s about much more than that, but Murdoch leaves it up to us to decide what that is.
Could the same story happen in a 2013 setting?
I hadnt borrowed a book for yonks! A friend was reading Iris Murdoch in the school playground while we were waiting for the kids, and when I mentioned I had never read any of her books, she lent me this one. It is an old dog-eared copy: I cannot find the edition in goodreads. It appears she has read it several times: she noted the years on the flyleaf.I remember reading books like this one when I was a teenager. Lots of names come to mind. Marguerite Duras. Milan Kundera. Herman Hesse. Miguel de
A friend was reading Iris Murdoch in the school playground while we were waiting for the kids, and when I mentioned I had never read any of her books, she lent me this one.
Marian arrives at an isolated house to act as a cultivated lady companion to Hannah, the lady of Gaze Castle.
Marian has just arrived and hasn´t fallen under the spell yet: she wants to set Hannah free.
As for the meaning of this allegory, the thing that comes to my mind is the fear that cerebral people have of giving in to emotions, of losing control, forgetting themselves.
The Unicorn is a strange book.
I'm not sure I can easily sum up what I think about it in familiar language.
It is a spellbinding book, and its magic won't work on everybody.
It worked on me.
It is a gothic time when ritual sacrifice is favored, when castles, fairies, superstitions, are commonplace, but it is also possible (though not easy) to escape back to plain English sense in a solid car or train.My main criticism is that for a book built on such strange and misty foundation, Murdoch shows her hand a little too readily in her overt references to Plato and Freud.
I think the book would have been better if she trusted the intellect of her audience.

If claustrophobic Gothic lit is your bag, then quickly to the nearest book dealer!
If not, you might want to come for the lush details for which Murdoch is well known.I still have to rate The Sea, The Sea higher based on my feeling that it was better written.
The first two parts were creepy suspenseful, a real page turner.
Unfortunately, the last part felt incredibly rushed and forced, as if Murdoch just wanted to be done with the story or distracted by something else.Not the first Murdoch I would recommend if you're new to her, but definitely worth a read if you're a fan.
Very few books combine psychological insight, an understanding of both external social interactions and the internal mechanics of emotion, and metaphysics / existential philosophy. This one does it, is equally strong in all of the above arenas, and is well-written on top of all that. Shallow readers will be bored. Those who are patient and receptive to these things will be captivated. A real thinker's book.
My first (and so far, only) Murdoch novel. I was pleasantly surprised by the twist after the happy ending, which I since learned is basically Murdoch's central philosophy. Well done, applying your philosophy in an amusing, rather than stern, way.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2018/12/10...
Even more bizarrely, the owner of the other house is an elderly Platonic scholar with a hunting-and-fishing son, a sensible daughter in brogues and a regular guest, rather a confused one, who’s supposed to be intended for the daughter but promptly ‘falls in love’ with the Unicorn, as has been for much longer the distance-keeping son.
