https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86856.A_Cook_s_Tour
Besides, I know you wouldn't have given me the time of day: I eat too much vegetarian food for things to have ever worked out between us.
I've been reading your books and watching old episodes of your shows on Netflix; it breaks my heart a little bit every time, because of the way you left us - but what a legacy you left behind!
I could almost stop writing here: the book is that good.
Bourdain's attitude is part of his charm.
I'm not sure I'd want to work in his kitchen, but he writes a damn good story.
The way this man writes about food is incredible--last time someone made meat sound so good I was in Minneapolis and the local restaurant reviewer had my taste buds in a vice grip.
If you can't stand profanity, read something else.
Bourdain pulls no punches, but that means he gives everything a fair shot.
Read it.
Then go find a really good dinner.
He's basically full of shit and insane, but honest enough to be aware of it.He's smug, cynical, occasionally snobby and has all the tact of hammer to the forehead.At the same time he's very aware that he's stumbled into a job most people would kill for, he's getting paid to eat good food and travel anywhere he wants in the world.
He had me craving foods I generally don't even like.If that's not enough, the scene where he talks about his dad will cause you to tear up and how can you not love any author that references Tintin as one of the things that made him want to travel the world.
Bourdain - a privileged, hypocritical, crude bastard - manages to write prose that is intriguing, funny, and surprisingly poetic.
I began the book as a critic of Bourdain, having just read KITCHEN CONFIDENTIAL, which I found to be shallow and boring at best, and also having watched his show NO RESERVATIONS, which often leaves a bad taste in my mouth for several reasons.
Despite all this, there has always been something in Bourdain's writing that has kept me coming back.
After reading this book, I've been unwillingly converted.
Visiting locales like France, Portugal, Morocco, Japan, Cambodia and Vietnam, as well as a little bit of his home country, Bourdain's goal is to try true, authentic, fresh food and not be afraid to join in and eat like the locals.
That said I'd be willing to give his trip a try (minus part of the time in Cambodia where he visited a Khmer Rouge-ran city) and hopefully have my horizons expanded.
I really liked Bourdain's attitude - self-deprecating, honest, harsh but always respectful of other cultures and willing to give things a try.
Goals for my life:1) Write better2) Cook better3) Travel moreRedefined goal for life:BE LIKE ANTHONY BOURDAIN.I've listened through this book twice now, and I've loved it both times.
Bourdain's voice doing the narration, a comforting mix of professor with a smoking habit and friendly guy at the bar, is perfect--naturally because it's his voice reading his words.The meandering journeys through Asia, Europe and Latin America encourage wanderlust in even the most entrenched home bodies.
The wit and wisdom and unedited work of America's foremost connoisseur of all things international makes this book a most read for anyone, everyone who enjoys literature, food or travel--which should be (one, two, thre---all of you)
Kim says I have a man crush on Anthony Bourdain.
So what’s a man crush?My favorite urban dictionary definition of the term reads:Respect, admiration and idolization of another man.
Do I have a man crush on Anthony Bourdain by that definition?
Let’s frame the question around my recent reading of A Cook’s Tour.This is Bourdain’s second, book, after Kitchen Confidential.
In some ways I don’t want to like Anthony Bourdain.
I respect and admire Bourdain, but I don’t idolize him.
Book Club Read.... Loved this travel memoir so much.... Anthony Bourdain's writing captures a precarious balance of cynicism and true wonder that's very hard to achieve. His genuine passion for good food and good people leaps off the page, as he revels in the simplicities of tradition and family in the places he explores. My mouth watered, my feet itched and I laughed my arse off. This book really spoke my language... Off now to binge watch the accompanying tv show, now streaming on Hulu...and crush on him just a little ;)
It's certainly possible to go to San Francisco after visiting Cambodia and feel that Americans are lucky to have accessible meat, at all, but Bourdain's attitude towards vegetarianism is so antagonistic and puzzling.
We should be consuming as much factory-farmed meat as possible, because that's an authentic expression of our cuisine?" There's a world of difference between Bourdain's elevation of the Portuguese pig farm slaughter and his cursory few sentences about the bland and fattening mass-produced food of the Midwest.
You don't have to be popping entire roasted birds in your mouth in Vietnam in order to experience the world's cuisine.Anyway, I liked this a lot, and Bourdain is a gifted writer.
I love his desire for absolutely fresh food, right off the bleeding stick or never touching a refrigerator, and I admire the distinctions he makes about how food looks and how it tastes--my wife is one who cannot get over the appearance of food and lets it affect her enjoyment of it, while I don't care how food looks, but simply want good-tasting stuff.
I don't know if this books suffers from Bourdain's inexperience at writing, or if this simply has been edited to death to remove a lot of life from the prose.
There is something wonderful about reading about other cultures and their love of food.
Some scenes were rather hard to read about (the one describing how ducks are stuffed to make foie gras---no thank you), others are humorous, and at times you get a feeling of sadness depending on what Bourdain is going on about in a particular chapter.I have to say that the book itself jumps around a lot.
I didn't rate this five stars since the book jumped around a lot and I didn't know what angle Bourdain was going for in the final execution of this book.
His short chapter on Gordon Ramsey totally turned my opinion around about that guy, at least until I see him again on TV.Part of Bourdain’s shtick is to bust on all things vegetarian, but his screed in this book is sort of childish and lacks something that is infused in almost everything he writes: humor.
I just think that going through life without ever eating meat is dumb.
What could people who avoid animal products be missing?
All of their former arguments in favor of never eating meat have mostly been invalidated.
I could probably survive if I ate less pork, but to swear off this delicious animal for a lifetime is simply a profound error.
Most vegetarians are suffering from an eating disorder.
He's Still Got It - and Now He's On the Road If you loved Kitchen Confidential Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly, then imagine all that again, with some incredible travel writing (ie even more exotic delicacies, and the occasional threat of death) chucked in for good measure. Also wonderful are the behind the scenes story about filming Bourdain's show (Reasons You Don't Want to Work in Television, sections 1, 2 and 3)There's something magical and infectious about letting someone, anyone, ta
Also wonderful are the behind the scenes story about filming Bourdain's show (Reasons You Don't Want to Work in Television, sections 1, 2 and 3)There's something magical and infectious about letting someone, anyone, talk about what they love - and when they're as smart, funny and talented as Bourdain you have gold.
The only reason it doesn't have the full five stars from me is that (unsurprisingly) there isn't really a sense of overall plot - it's a series some amazing travel/food articles.
I devoured this book in a few days, and would recommend it to just about anyone with a sense of humour, a high shock threshold, and who likes their food.
Although he occasionally comes across as a Jeremy Clarkson of food, all bombastic arrogance and impatient with anything that infringes his right to do what he likes, I am rather fond of eating, so Anthony Bourdain's pesrpctive is one I largely share, even if his playful likening of vegetarians to the hezbollah is something of a one angled view.In particular, he has no time at all for the lily-livered, western-centric tendency towards fussiness - if it's there to be guzzled, be it the still beating heart of a cobra, haggis, bone marrow on toast or the bile of a snake, he'll be up for it (although he draws the line at iguana and bird's nest soup).
As someone who grew up poor, ate cheap, salty stuff out of boxes and cans (powdered milk was a staple of my childhood), and never traveled, I'm a culinary dilettante at best and likely always will be.
Much of the insider foodie stuff is over my head if not interesting and often fascinating.
But like all quest narratives, Bourdain's--under the guise of a quest for the elusive "perfect meal"--is a quest for identity.
And the guy can write.
At his best, he's as good as any of the too-many memoirists out there and better than most.
Anthony Bourdain passed away this past week.
I had, and as a result I let it sit on my bedside table untouched until I heard of Bourdain's passing.
For Anthony Bourdain, he was living a life few of us could dream of achieving and it can make it all the more difficult for those struggling to hear that people we feel are more successful than us, living a better or more leisurely or more exciting life than us can find reason to end those better, more leisurely, more exciting lives.
Vividly captures the cuisine and soul of each place he stops. Almost more of a survey of humanity than of food.
I also liked his Food Channel series, "No Reservations" even though the production values weren't as good as they are on CNN.This book is a narrative of his search for the perfect meal with the Food Channel folks tagging along.
It helps that I share his admiration for the Vietnamese people, his ambivalence towards Tokyo and San Francisco, his disdain for what's happened to the American palate, and many, many other opinions, he's only to happy to share both in his writing and on his TV shows.It is unusual for me to describe a non-fiction collection of essays such as this using terms like, "I couldn't put it down".
I plan to read all of Bourdain's books and am happy I started with this one.
I'm an unabashed Tony Bourdain fan, love his brain and P.o.V on just about everything (although there are things the man eats that I would NEVER, in a million years, even if I was starving to death, put in my mouth) and Cook's Tour is, I think his first book (or an early on in any case).
It chronicles the beginning of Tony's running-around-the-world-eating-cool-stuff adventures, and most of the book is broken down into short sections by place, i.e. this five pages is about Vietnam, this really horrific six pages is Cambodia (note: YOU DO NOT WANT TO VISIT CAMBODIA.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book to begin with, where Bourdain opens on the philosophy that the very best meals in one's life are largely dependent on context more so than the food itself.
On his quest to find 'the perfect meal', I loved his food adventure stories as explored through this lens.
In that same way that, whilst I love watching No Reservations, I always find that I can never sit through more than a few episodes in a short while - for me, I think he's perhaps just a guy best taken in small doses.
When I picked up this book on my most recent trip to the States, I thought I'd randomly found a charming new read at the bookstore.
He has my dream job.Nice book.
I like the stories of his travels, the crazy food he has the balls to eat (the still-beating heart of a cobra, tree grubs, etc.), his descriptions of killing animals to eat are eloquent and touching, and his rants about vegetarianism, obesity, etc.
He's charming, honest, funny, simple, and able to connect with the reader on a variety of levels.
Liked it.
Dear Anthony Bourdain.I do not know who you are, and since picking up this book I have no interest in finding out any more about you either.
You are a pompous, whiny, brat who spends 260 pages taking the attention off some truly incredible places and foods and onto yourself.
You also raise some pertinent issues about the consumer knowing where their food comes from.
No one cares about how few places there are to smoke in an airport apart from you.
I think I got a better sense of what was outside the lines of the book and on the editing room floor of the show by getting both than I would ever get from reading or watching alone.
His final trip to Vietnam (the last chapter), for example, mentions a conversation in which he tells a guide/translator that Philippe might be coming for a bit.
The book split up the Vietnam visit into 4+ separate chapters that acted like separate visits, in the order of Saigan, Can Tho, Nha Trang, back to Saigon.
It seemed that practically all he could see or think about in his multiple chapters to Vietnam in this book was the war.
Part of what drove that is having seen so much of Bourdain on TV and being so familiar with his snark, his mannerisms, his catch-phases, his favorite haunts (that he revealed), and his close chef friends that every time one of them appeared in the book, the scene (or entire episode) was brought to mind.
He had more than a few unpleasant things to say about people whom he did not like (and does so a couple of times in this book, too), but he rarely said anything bad about the people in general, no matter where he went.
I will always cross-post Anthony Bourdain on my “social studies” shelf. His ability to so humbly enter a totally foreign culture and be impressed by how they are surviving and thriving and creating is unmatched. His ferocious intelligence is palpable on every page. He was our best ambassador so many places, and he will be so sorely missed. This was released just before or just after 9/11, and I am so curious. I wonder how his experience traveling changed after that.
Totally forgot I read this until Bourdain's sad passing on Saturday. Bit of a legend really. A Cook's Tour was a constant companion when I was myself travelling a decade or so ago. Dry humour combined with a punk sensibility and real passion for a sensorial and sensual life. I liked him immensely and will be rereading this soon.
I liked this book a lot better than I expected to, having encountered Bourdain a few times on TV and when reading interviews.
So much modern food writing is very of-the-moment; Bourdain here is more interested in foods and food ways that have stood the test of time.I do wish there had been rather more detail about the foods and food ways he encountered, especially at the expense of some of his repeated tales of overindulgence in booze, drugs, and trouble-seeking; the later held little charm for me.Still, I'm glad I read it.
I thought someone who was as self-professed a egomaniac as Bourdain would be insufferable to read about, and my suspicious were not eased when my little brother, who had read the book, waxed on about how much he loved Bourdain's pleasure-seeking hedonistic lifestyle.
Most of all, Bourdain is respectful of the people he meets and the cultures he experiences (so long as they're not vegetarians).
He seems to have a good sense of humor and a willingness to laugh at himself that goes a long way to offset the occasional bombastic behavior.My one caveat would be to not read A Cook's Tour when you're stuck on a bus for eight hour with nothing but a package of cashews to eat.
I'm a fan of Anthony Bourdain's books in audio format, I find the way he reads a really nice compliment to the book.
This book had been saved on my iPhone for a while in audio format and figured I'd listen to it all.
If you're a loyal watcher of No Reservations you'll relate to many of the stories, as they are recaps of what happened on the show.
It was a great filler for me while driving, and that's it.
The 4 star instead of the 3 is because Tony Bourdain is a great story teller.
Written very honestly (and crudely), I enjoyed seeing someone as seasoned and calloused as Bourdain explore the world with a genuine sense of wonder.
I laughed out loud at the absurd situations (made more absurd by his too-cool attitude mixed with the occasional celebrity tantrum), cringed at some of the grosser food moments, and salivated through the rest - his love for good food is unmistakable.
I never knew it could be so poetic - it's as if in the moment his words run through my mind, they're mine and I suddenly understand the art of food (accompanied by a few more expletives than usual...)
