https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21491.The_Choirboys
To get me interested in a cop story these days, it has to be some kind of ultra-realistic look at the bureaucratic nightmare of real police work like The Wire.
But show me those soulless pretty people tracking serial killers by getting their DNA tests done in three minutes on a CSI show and my eyes glaze over.Joseph Wambaugh worked the LAPD in the 1960s-70s, and during an era when cops were almost invariably portrayed as square jawed heroes, he wrote novels that dared to show the police as very flawed, damaged and relatable human beings.
I worked for several years with an officer who fought a losing battle with alcohol and had a couple failed marriages.
First of all I have gotten the impression (based on reading and instinct) that Wambaugh had pretty much resigned from the L.A.P.D. in spirit ,if not body, by the time he began writing The Choirboys.
I've been in the profession of law enforcement for over fourteen years and I work for a much smaller department (65 officers vs.
First of all the book is forty years old and second of all police work isn't a nice job.
Whereas  The New Centurions  was a rather grey and grimy introductory work, The Choirboys was a raunchy and grinning buzzbomb of a shock, delivered when I was still young enough to hold that cops were a far different, more upright and austerely dignified breed of human than the noodle-legged, drunken clowns carousing and stumbling about MacArthur Park so perfectly etched by Wambaugh. Here was a group of average schmoes punching the clock, dealing with the annoying and overbearing bureaucratic pr
The New Centurions
was a rather grey and grimy introductory work, The Choirboys was a raunchy and grinning buzzbomb of a shock, delivered when I was still young enough to hold that cops were a far different, more upright and austerely dignified breed of human than the noodle-legged, drunken clowns carousing and stumbling about MacArthur Park so perfectly etched by Wambaugh.
In particular, the misanthropic pressure-cooker Roscoe Rules and Whaddayamean Dean - who, when drinking, quickly loses his ability to do more than grin, drool, and repeatedly ask the question that provided him with his nickname - are great creations, the lead performers in provoking the laughter that broke out time and again whilst I read this entertaining and - at the time - eye-opening book.
I read it for the characters, the laughs, the glimpse of something foreign, exotic and mostly pretty much believable.
I read it cos I hit a few bumps in the road and felt like lying on the bed with a book I could escape into.
On a side note, I’m guessing there’s a big Catch-22 influence: the structure that keeps circling back on itself, the tragic incident in the vortex, the chapters devoted to specific characters rather than split up chronologically, the black humour.
Sure, it’s slight overreach – this ain’t Catch-22 – but it’s easy to read, makes sense, keeps you guessing.
For writers, this book is a fantastic example of defining and developing memorable characters by showing their day-to-day, repetitive traits.
I'm guessing that Wambaugh nails that part of the cop life — but, by the end, the Choir Practice scenes grew tiring.
Instead of being thrilled with every nuance of the work, as I was in the first half, I gradually grew to wonder when those scenes would end.Three stars, but again, if you're a writer, this book feels like a master class on how to create memorable secondary characters.
L'aspetto di questo romanzo che mi è piaciuto è l'andamento “a spirale” del racconto: dalla superficie dei fatti, capitolo dopo capitolo, l'autore scava dentro l'animo tormentato dei poliziotti che si trovano di fronte a tutte le miserie umane senza nessuno con cui poter condividere il carico emotivo che il loro lavoro comporta.
La valutazione di 5/5 è una media tra il due che sicuramente darei per l'eccessiva ripetitività dei capitoli che raccontano gli incontri dei ragazzi del coro, le sbornie, gli scherzi di cattivo gusto e l'otto delle parti in cui vengono descritti i personaggi, anche quelli minori (che poi minori non sono.)
If, like me, you are old enough to have been a child when it was unheard of, or very rare, to have a TV in your room, then you might relate to the previous sentence.Those nights, either because my parents were away and I was being looked after by a not so strict baby sitter, or was up late for some other unforeseen event, were like small glimpses into what awaited me in years to come when I finally turned into an “adult”.Well, I don’t know if it’s because this book is about a bunch of 1970’s cops (doing things that young children would never imagine a “policeman” gets up to), that this book reminds me of those nights I was able to watch late night TV and hear unshaven, greasy looking men talk about “broads and tits”, or see those “broads” (and their “tits”) on the screen in some gritty cop show where the character swore, smoked dope, shot people, and had sex.While reading this book, I was a child again, looking into the adult world and feeling nervous but excited about that world being my world one day.
Muhammed Ali defeated Joe Frazier in the "Thriller in Manilla", The Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the Minnesota Vikings in New Orleans to win the Super Bowl, and the Cincinnati Reds defeated the Boston Red Sox in 7 games to capture baseball's "fall classic", and Joseph Wambaugh penned "The Choirboys" The Choirboys was a tragicomedy that parodied the effects of urban police work on young officers, which Wambaugh exaggerated through the exploits of his characters, a group of Los Angeles police officers in the Wilshire Division of the L.A.P.D. Wambaugh used a group of ten patrol officers as his main characters that held end-of-shift "get together's" which Wambaugh euphemistically coined "choir practice".

At the start this book seems to be the usual patter about some odd ball cops.
Somewhere around page 15 I realized this book is absolutely brilliant.
A bunch of policemen unwind in LAs McArthur park, each party is more debauched and awful then the next as each party serves as a release valve.
The experiences flit from so funny it hurt to so jaw droppingly awful you cannot understand how anyone could be exposed to something like that and come out unscathed.
Of course none of them do come out unscathed.
Brilliance comes in the most surprising packages sometimes.
Hilarious and raunchy and great. Not sure how the movie adaptation failed with comedy this grotesque (just look at the casting, too: Louis Gossett, Jr; Charles Durning; James Woods; Randy Quaid, Perry King, Tim McIntire, Don Stroud, Burt Young...) and directed by the legendary Robert Aldrich and it still couldn't work.Anyway yeah the book definitely rocks; the movie just wasn't allowed to be as dirty as it needed to be.
This book is really something. Very well written with engrossing plotting and memorable characters. It all feels like "MASH" for a while with its dark comedy amongst policemen acting like frat brothers, but the story gradually turns dramatically serious when you find out why the characters seemingly act so wacky and outrageously.
The first novel Wambaugh wrote after retiring as a detective due to his newfound fame. The best book he's written with a distinct change in tone: dark, disturbing and overtly contemptuous of the LAPD.

I've enjoyed some of Wambaugh's books, but this one was dated and depressing. I gave it three stars because it was somewhat novel--no pun intended--for its day. Also, it probably was a pretty real view of what some cops went through, but it was a particularly sad group of cops.
I read this book back in 1976. I wasn't reading a lot back then just a selection of books that I thought I might really enjoy. I really, really enjoyed Wambaugh back in the day and I really, really enjoyed this one.4.5 stars
Each chapter focuses on a different pair of officers, on the horrible and hilarious things they witness on the street, and how it all starts leaving permanant scars on them mentally and emotionally.
While each chapter stands alone, as the book progresses, they begin to interweave and pick up intensity until you can just see the snowball of horrible events start rolling.It should probably be mentioned that very few of the characters are likeable.
It really makes you think.Side note, because authenticity matters to some people, Wambaugh was an LAPD officer for almost fifteen years.
When things get a bit much (and they often do) these cops call a "Choir Practice", which is a booze and sex orgy, off duty in a public park.The story sets off in a fairly episodic structure, with each pair of officers having their own "choir-practice-triggering" strange and dark experience.
They are frightened of the day when they decide enough is enough and the fact that the more dark things they deal with on the job the quicker they might arrive at the decision.****END OF SORT-OF SPOILER****This is a book I feel genuinely enriched to have read
As I write this THE CHOIRBOYS has become an icon, the predecessor of and model for so many police focused books to follow. Have no idea how many remember the way Joseph Wambaugh, a former LAPD detective sergeant, burst upon the literary scene first with The New Centurions, a story that shocked, thrilled, and shortly followed it with THE CHOIRBOYS, another eyebrow raising tale infused with authenticity. Many of you may have read the book or seen the film based upon the book, but it's an entirely
Have no idea how many remember the way Joseph Wambaugh, a former LAPD detective sergeant, burst upon the literary scene first with The New Centurions, a story that shocked, thrilled, and shortly followed it with THE CHOIRBOYS, another eyebrow raising tale infused with authenticity.
Many of you may have read the book or seen the film based upon the book, but it's an entirely new experience to hear it read by award winning voice performer Oliver Wyman.
This is vintage Wambaugh, the bestselling author at the height of his powers, and Wyman giving THE CHOIRBOYS the delivery a groundbreaking novel deserves.
Some of the characters are hit and miss, whattaya mean Dean was very one dimensional for example, but most are an interesting read.
The story basically introduces a number of characters and then spends a set amount of time giving background information on them and then moving onto the next set.
Some bits did stand out though like the time Roscoe does something during a road collision and also an impromptu flight but they were few and far between.
An enjoyable read at the time but not really something I would re-visit.
If you liked this try: “Wiseguy” by Nicholas Pileggi
Joseph Wambaugh is a former policeman which allows him to articulate the lives of cops quite accurately.
In the book, the syntax consists of mostly periodic or interrupted sentences allowing the author to create more emphasis on the main ideas.
The diction was consistently colloquial to create more realistic interactions among the cops.
I believe the problem faced by the characters is trying to do with the atrocities they deal with in their job.
Some deal with it by drugs, some with alcohol, but in the end, as proven in the book only more problems are created.
The black comedy in these pages kind of only works if you kind of don't give a fuck for most of humanity, which is kind of one of the underlying messages of the book - whether it can be taken seriously or not.
The title is a euphemism for the group of cops that have "choir practice" on regular occasions when they vent either from being pent-up shitheads all time or from being just regular guys who wade through the depths of human depravity at its extremes.
The book also goes to extremes - the explicitness would shame 50 Shades, and the brutality could teach horror scribes a thing or two.
I've read it three times since the initial read, and intend to read it again every once in awhile.
This book is very well written and runs the gamut of emotions.
The first time I read it I was still in high school and would often read late at night.
On at least two occasions while reading this book I woke my parents up with loud, uncontrolled laughter.
Wambaugh writes at the start that this is the truest book he's ever written.
Even though the book is a bit dated now, I do not hesitate to recommend it to anyone who enjoys a great story.
Unbelievably masterful. This book tells the story of a bunch of cops who have "parties" in the park, called "choir practices (hence the book's name).The cops, all characters fashioned with incredible skill, are at times repellent, hilarious, fascinating, heartbreaking and lovable. Much like Wambaugh's Blue Knight, it isn't until you reach the final pages that you realize you have been swept off your guard, and the story is about people you suddenly realize are not who you were thinking they were.
I didn't like this book to begin with, it all seemed a bit hard-boiled and the Police-Academy-meets-Porky's japes rankled. But then I saw that the cops' jobs had brutalised them: facing the worst of humanity every single day, sometimes you just got to drink, fight and use the expression 'ball' when referring to casual sex with cocktail waitresses. Gosh darn it, I began to care. I cried - twice, damn you. And I also sniggered at that classic gag: 'Madam, were you cut in the fracas?'. 'No, about six inches above it'.
One of the best police novels ever written. It is stark and brutal while at times quite funny and entertaining. The story of five sets of partners, each man terribly flawed and self-destructive but at the same time very human and endearing, and their quest to cope with the awful and violent world that they work in. You know from the start that it is not going to end well for these guys, but you'll keep reading just the same. An amazing book, would reccomend it to just about anyone.
One of the most inventive police novels I've ever read. Dark, humorous and at times heart breaking. The characters begin as gargoyle like parodies of alcoholic cops but as the novel progresses their individual circumstances and qualities come to the fore. I've found since reading this that I often find myself thinking of the characters and the stories involved. Wambaugh in general is just a genius.
It's probably very dated now, but when I read this book in the late seventies as a teenager, it was an absolute eye-opener in terms of what fiction could achieve. The book totally took me in to the world of the LAPD, and I read it over and over again. Shocking, cruel, funny, realistic and poignant, I had never read anything like it. Wambaugh, in my opinion, struggled to match this book in his later fiction, although his non-fiction writing remains as good as anyones.
While drawing unavoidable connections to CATCH 22, this work stands on its own. Personal favorite of Wambaugh's works. A dark story of L.A. police in the late 60s later denigrated by an absolutely offensive screen rendering. Puts a human face on the 'army of occupation.'
Probably a life changer of a book for me. Hilarious and thrilling at times, heartbreaking at others. A fascinating tour of the post-Nam American male human condition. I like all of Wambaugh's books, he's pretty much my favourite author, but I don't think he ever topped this. A masterpiece.
