https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/644949.Space
Michener may be too detailed for some, but I loved the way he built this story bit by bit.
There was so much sacrifice amidst the success.The book also gave me a deeper appreciation of how old some of the back-and-forth arguments about NASA are - almost all of the stuff we hear about now in terms of politics was going on back then.
I recommend this book to anyone who loves learning about the history of our space program and what went into it.
Interesting & well written. The most readable book he's written, in my opinion. Maybe it was just that I found the subject matter so interesting. It's a good start to the U.S. space program, but certainly not all inclusive. He could easily have expanded this to a trilogy. If it had any failing, it was the limits of the book.
A bit disconcerting is his creation of two fictional US states, Fremont and Red River which have elected Republican and Democratic senators respectively.
He doesn't tell us where Red River is, though it is obviously a southern state, but Fremont is located on land taken from Kansas and Nebraska.
This book taught me much and also provided an enjoyable nostalgic overview of the exciting years of my youth, but it also reveals Michener's interest in and sensitivity to those eschatological concerns with which even the best informed and most gifted struggle.
Having both a great deal of science and politics, Kyle and I found it easy to like this book.
This books tries to do that along the way of telling somewhat accurately what really took place.
The book did not predict this tragedy, but it did talk about the problems that took place in starting of the shuttle program and the possibility for error.
I was also comparing this book with the movie 'The Right Stuff' which tells the story of the pilots who eventually became astronauts.
This book filled in the holes where 'The Right Stuff' left off.
this is the size of what i like to call, an airplane book.
read this book because i am fascinated in the space program and the character of man (in most cases) that realized this impossible seeming vision.
a man like my father, an engineer for boeing during the apollo period, and lived at cape canaveral nee kennedy space station, and me celebrating my first birthday on 20 july 1969 with a moon landing, nearly 'i dream of jeanie'-like in timing.
and this, my first michner, not unlike a moon landing perhaps.
All 832 pages were well worth the effort. This is truly an American story with insights into the families of the USA Space Program and how it grew. The astronaughts, the test pilots, the politicians, and others--all come off as real human beings with aspirations, disappointments, and achievements. This book is very different from Michener's other books--less history and more current events. Many strong characters and many very weak ones.
It's good. But "The Right Stuff" is better.
Flat characters, dated style, and lacking the depth to confer any real sense of the great accomplishments of the era.
I was so involved in this book that I started Googling what has happening while I was reading it because I was astounded to have such poor knowledge about the American space program.
Then I figured out that two of the major missions they discussed are fictional.
Anyway, I wish the book had started with the disclaimer about who was fictional and who was "real" so that I could have not been quite so confused in the middle.I have to say that the Apollo 18 mission was so stressful that I sat in my car during my lunch breaks to see what would happen.
This is the first Michener I've ever read so I did not really know what to expect.
Main characters include a German rocket engineer, a United States astrophysicist, a U.S. test pilot/astronaut, and a U.S. Senator, along with their wives an a multitude of other characters.My big problem with this book is that the fictional account may undermine the real heroes of the space program.
Most egregious is a fictional Apollo flight which would have been the most remembered event of that storied program.The good part of the book is the realistic and accurate space science which is presented in a way which is easily followed by the layman.
Great parallel to the drama of the real space race.
The narrative whips through years in the span of paragraphs – all in the name of rushing to the ultimate triumph of the moon landings.The book’s latter theme of scientific knowledge vs.
religion is just as contemporary now as it was 28 years ago – and with the current state of NASA – with the retirement of the Shuttle and the uncertainty of the Constellation program – the fate of Michener’s fictional space program might actually become our reality.A must read for anyone who grew up staring up at the night sky.
It's really weird.But probably the biggest flaw (depending on how much you hate shitty characters) is Michener's (once again wholly American) celebration of the great myths of the space program.
Michener's novel is mythology, not literature and with those flimsy characters, it's not even good mythology.Which brings me to section from 458 to 470 wherein Michener attempts to address why there weren't any black people in the space program.
I first read this book back in 1979 when I was going through Basic Dive School in Washinton DC. It was a great read and it kept me pumped to hit the books and pass the school. This is an excellent fictional account of our early space program. I don't think the behind the scenes Machiavellian twists and plots were far from reality.
Michener's portrayal of the lives of the individuals who participated in the space race, is entertaining. His novel starts at the end of the Second World War when the scientists were acquired, through Korea when the astronauts were formed, into the great Space Race and the Apollo moon-landings. Anybody who has ever looked up at the stars at night will greatly enjoy this book.
I liked this book. However, THE RIGHT STUFF is a far more worthwhile read on the same subject. SPACE is workman like and well, plodding. It's not exactly dull, but it takes its time getting anywhere.If you love science/fiction(not science fiction mind you)books by the likes of Carl Sagan, then Space will leave you feeling blah.
This is the book that started my love-affair for all books James Michener. I especially love his talk about WWII when the scientists had to be found and captured before the Russians did and then transported to an American facility in the middle of the US. Anyway, read the book, learn about history and fall in love with his epic novels!
A veritable door-stopper of a book (aren't all Michener's? ed.) and a barn-storming read to boot!Very engaging, always interesting and in light of the recent sacrifices made by the space program, a testament to why we reach for the stars . . ad astra per aspera indeed.
This is a wonderful historical fiction about the development of the space program and the people involved. It made me choose my degree. Michener can be very hard to read but they're always so informative and developed wonderfully.
Like all his books, a good leisurely read in his personal style. Well researched as in all his writing. He is underappreciated which will cure itself in another 100 years.
a massive achievement. Not that great a story, but a great collection of research.
If you are used to the typical Michener place-histories (Hawaii, Centennial, Chesapeake, etc.), then this will feel a little bit different but similar.
If you enjoyed some of his other books, like Tales from the South Pacific, The Bridges at Toko-Ri, Songs of Spring, and the Drifters then you will see a little bit of that style resurrected here.
As is typical of his style, Michener tells this tale through the eyes of fictional characters who are very much based on real-life events.
In so doing, Space becomes our own, a part of our personal history.
Like the trip to the moon itself, my odyssey with Space has finally been concluded...and it only took three years to complete!I'm really, really, really torn on how to rate this book.
But there were slower parts and the historical inaccuracies doomed this to a three for me.Nuts and bolts, this is a fictionalized look at the Space program through the eyes of 4 people (a washington senator, a test pilot turned astronaut, a NASA scientist and a German rocket expert).
But, the debate seemed unnecessary in the story, except for some argument to the expenditures being debated in the future of NASA toward the ends of the book.
i always find something of value in a Michener book, but Space wasn't nearly as fun or enjoyable as Hawaii, Centennial, or Chesapeake.
Maybe just the concept of Space made me half expect a science fiction book, and this is definitely not that.The long political passages were really tough for me to get through, especially considering what a depressing political state we're currently living through.
I didn't feel as strong of an attachment to any of the other characters as I usually do in a Michener book.
It wasn't a very fun book, but as a Michener fan it was worth a read.
An "oldie but goodie" - I read this because I'm accompanying my 10 year old granddaughter on a Space and Aviation adventure in Kansas next month (Road Scholar Intergenerational) and it was one of only two books on the "recommended" list.
Although I tended to "skim" the scientific jargon, the book (originally published in the 1980s - when this granddaughter's parents were toddlers!) held my interest and impressed me anew with the accomplishments made in space during the last half of the last century.
Further, the characters were likeable and their stories (fiction) believable.
Well written fictional account of the space race. Michener does a lot of fictional history, and probably does it better than anyone, but it falls flat here. Real people, such as Lyndon Johnson, are woven in with fictional astronauts and engineers. The main reason it doesn't move the needle for me is that just three years earlier Tom Wolfe published "The Right Stuff", which was based on actual events, actual people, and for which Wolfe did years of detailed research. Here, Michener is basically telling the same story but using fictional characters to do it.
I thought this book would never end.
i'm not sure how I persevered to the finish line.
It seemed like it was trying to wrap itself up in the last third of the book.
i grew to really care about the characters in the book, so I think that helped me to continue.
My progress was really delayed in the final fourth of this tome.I think I'm over Michener for awhile.
I have enjoyed him in the past; Hawaii was really a wonderful book.
Michener is an amazing author, and I do appreciate him.
I am so glad this book is over with for me.
3.5 Stars. My first Michener book. It had a lot of the components I like: historic backdrop, characters who evolve, plot that has value to the story and a decent pace for an 800 page book. There were a few characters that seem dated especially the reporter and the cult leader. There are some elements that seem dated as well, such as the latent racism and some of the stylistic breaks, but those aren't offensive, just dated.
I read this when it first came out, when I was 19. The thing that most upset me at that time was a single glaring technical error regarding the Apollo spacecraft and orbital mechanics. Now, with the benefit of getting older, I see so much else wrong with this book. the biggest is that the characters are too perfect. No real life human can be as perfect as John Pope, Penny Hardesty, and Stanley and Rachel Mott.
Although the long chapters that seem to follow an organized stream of consciousness can run on forever overall the book is very well mapped out and arranged neatly. As for the story itself, it's a thrilling novel that captures the space age perfectly and allows a look into the lives of these very real people. Overall the story, characters, and plot is well thought out and written. Definitely planning on reading more of his works.
I really enjoyed the book. Although I read the book a few years ago, I still remember the story. I grew up when my father worked on the Space program in the 60's. It was really fascinating to read the history. As a fiction writer, Michener does great job doing a lot of research. Highly recommend the book if you are interested in the race to the moon.
