https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/609121.Subculture
While still reading Dick Hebdige’s Subculture: The Meaning of Style, I watched the documentary, The Filth and the Fury: A Sex Pistols Film, in which a commentator in the late 1970s explained that punk rock was a greater threat to Britain than Russian communism.
And it is amazing, as I think about it, that my parents in rural Indiana let me buy and then play (and sing along to) Never Mind the Bollocks at full volume when I was still in junior high.
Hebdige also follows reactions of the mainstream to the threat of these emerging subcultures.
Hebdige posits that style in subcultural formations in England function as a form of protest against power structures, transforming the meaning of objects from their original use-based definitions into a visual revolt against a classist society entrenched in tradition.
Hebdige keeps to the semiotic tradition of interrogating visual signs in society as a mythic text to be deciphered, and uses the textual analytic techniques employed by Barthes and others.
Hebdige’s argument for the subculture as a political formation may be tempered in recent years, but his work has shaped much of the discussion of subcultures since its publication in 1969.
This part was actually kind of slow--it might be more interesting to someone partial to those styles--but I liked how Hebdige emphasized youth culture in contrast to parent/mainstream culture.
Culture is no longer just the opera or the symphony or another form of high art, but the ideologies and behaviours of people going about their daily business.
Using Gramsci's concept of hegemony, Hebdige states that subculture is a challenge to that dominant/mainstream culture through "style" (fashion, music, aesthetics).
This renders those subcultures mainstream and therefore that style no longer a form of resistance, thus leaving room for a new subculture to emerge.
We cannot point to a punk's dog collar and say 'your working-class background must have inspired that visual representation of your limited options in society and the workforce.' The subculture adopts the signs on a macro level, and what is signified must also be on that level.Drawing on Barthes, Hebdige points out that subcultures must communicate using the signs of the dominant culture; this can be problematic, and it forces the subculture to grab hold of the signifiers and wrestle them into new meanings (137).
Another book I read at University, and referenced a lot throughout my Graphic Arts & Design degree.
On the reading list and worked with in our Contextual Studies classes and seminars by the tutor who I was always in awe of, and who will always pop into my head when I hear the name 'Walter Gropius' (that's not related to this book by the way).
There's also a fair bit on David Bowie which is always a bonus in my book!I did have to re-read sections over to really get them to sink in, as I can't always get theories such as this to permiate the depper recesses of my brain very easily!
HEGEMONY and SUBCULTURES"It is here, at the level of 'normal common sense', that ideological frames of reference are most firmly sedimented and most effective, because it is here that their ideological nature is most effectively concealed. (...) However, the challenge to hegemony which subcultures represent is not issued directly by them. Rather it is expressed obliquely, in style. The objections are lodged, the contradictions displayed (...) at the profoundly superficial level of appearances: that is, at the level of signs."(pp. 11-17)
About two years into high school and I hit a wall.
Not on studying — I still read what interested me, poured over art history books — but academics were over.
In short, my interests were focused on other things, like punk rock.
One of the last projects in high school I was invested in was on alienation.
I’m a fan of intellectuals, even though I’m no academic, merely another art school graduate trying to figure things out on their own.
Hebdige cuts his cloth from the style of British youth culture and in their cut-up threads and mod suits finds the meaning of his subtitle.
Don't be fooled by the size of the book.
It may look like a quick read, but Hebdige's writing style is convoluted enough to make it into a much longer read.
"...the 'mythologist' who can no longer be one with the 'myth-consumers'...we must live an uneasy cerebral relation to the bric-a-brac of life - the mundane forms and rituals whose function it is to make us feel at home, to reassure us, to fill up the gap between desire and fulfillment.
Their arbitrary nature stands revealed: the apparent can no longer be taken for granted.
Often fascinating history of various British subcultures, mainly, as the cover would suggest, centered around the late-70's Punk movement, but also including, among other things, a really eye-opening examination of the British skinhead scene (up to the time I read it, I had assumed they were all fascists; not so, as it turned out). A bit on the academic side at times; still, well worth your time.
A guide on how to read subversion in style.
1. I'm not smart enough for this book so I can't say anything intelligent.2. I feel like there should have been pictures because he was talking about specific subcultures that could have benefitted from picture examples? Idk it was just a lot to read and I like to complain
Subculture: The Meaning of Style, takes a fruitful look at a lot of the deviant cultures from the 1970s UK and finds in them both something remarkable about the artistic content of their anti-establishment tone, and pessimistic in how those tones are subsumed into mainstream culture.
At the third stage ‘experts’ and liberal defendants seek to explain or justify the subculture, which not only redefines the group by the very terms it sought to resist, but also repairs the rift in society by placing the ‘other’ as part of the whole.
The book illustrates the complexity of subcultures and their characteristics. The book is elaborate and hard to read. I felt like it could have been shorter and more understandable.
A bit too abstract for a newbie in terms of subculture.
worth it for chapter 8 alone, especially the subsection "style as signifying practice."
Read for class
The main focus is on punks of the first generation.
They should be neither romanticized nor trivialized.There are many very smart insights in this book, but they are mostly for social scientists, and critical theorists, who are Hebdige's prime audience,not so much for people who want to understand the individual subcultures.
In fact, you learn quite little about the various subcultures, with the notably exception of (first-generation) punk, although some of the portrayal is quite stereotypical, assuming a debatable level of consciousness among the punks themselves.In short, great book for scholars of subcultures, who are particularly interested in theoretical questions of their meanings and significance.
Unfortunately, it lacks significant first hand data collected by the author.
The author references the data, experiences and documents surrounding the Punk movement produced by other authors, but does not relate any of his own experiences collected in the field.
Some first hand field data would have been nice however, and I missed its presence in the book.
The lack of personal experience by the author in this text led me to question the veracity of some of his conclusions.
If so, I believe that combining this work with first hand experiences could lead to some very interesting conclusions.
This exploration was particularly interesting to me in terms of the influences of punk style into other mediums such as punk cinema (Fight Club, Lock Stock, etc.).
Hebdige walks smoothly through the history of post WWII style to give (to me at least) a clear and interesting view into a culture that adores chaos.Except pg 122:What is more, different youths bring different degrees of commitment to a subculture.
It can represent a major dimension in people's lives - an axis erected in the face of the family around which a secret and immaculate identity can be made to cohere...However, despite these individual differences, the members of a subculture must share a common language.
Hebdige's thesis in this text that subcultures form out of different and often oppositional reactions to the hegemonic social structure (as informed by any number of socio-political variables).
As the reaction materializes into a subculture it represents danger that the hegemonic structure seeks to make "normal" in response.
this text for good reason is looked upon as must read in terms of studying culture.
In a time where there's a lot of discussion about cultural appropriation and the framework with which to point it out is still on somebodies anvil somewhere (as far as I am aware) this is worth sinking your teeth into.
Kenapa peniti jadi benda yang wajib para punker kenapa warna merah atau putih pada tali sepatu menjadi penting untuk kalian wahai punker.in england dokmar jadi simbol para pekerja karena memang sepatu ini dipakai para buruh disana.kalau kita di sini musti beli 1 jutaan,pekerja macam apa bray,abis gaji sebulan bwt beli sepatu.Selain permasalahan fashion Dick Hebdige lebih banyak membahas attitude subculture dan perilaku balasan dari Hegemoni yang ada.
buku yang sehat dan bagus dibaca sebelum nonton Sid n Nancy.akhirnya saya mengerti kenapa ada istilah punk borok pada medan sosial punk di indonesia.dari pada jadi punk borok mending baca buku ini dulu.
In my opinion, this is the best academic work on punk rock culture.
Hebdige approaches the subject from the standpoint of Semiotics - interpreting the "signs" of the subculture.
In fact, the book is nicely divided into 2 parts: theory & case study.
The first part engages (from a Semiotic approach) theories of subculture and its relation to authoritarian structures.
Here, Hebdige offers case studies of Teddy Boys, Mods, Rastas, Glam Rockers, & Punks.
What fascinates me most here is how Hebdige situates Punk in the history & development of British youth culture.
at core, this book gets at the issue of a cultural lexicon of style.
which is to say, people don't just express themselves through style; they use a language to express themselves.
in order to communicate effectively and clearly, one ought to use the available cultural vocabulary.
thus, hebdige posits, we get early punks in britain subverting and using for their own purposes the dominant cultural signs prevalent at that time.now, that's a nice story.
but really, for me, the strength of this book is its practical application for a range of topics/scenarios/situations having to do with visual cultures, linguistics, artistic appropriation/invention, and so on.
By George, I do believe I actually enjoyed this. And I NEVER enjoy theory. Appreciate it? Sure. But never ENJOY. Hebdige details the emergence of British punk in relation to a whole mess of other underground musical movements including glam rock and reggae and pulls a bunch of cool arguments out of his butt, centered around the ideas of hegemony and cultural resistance, and there's this cool part where he talks about the symbolic representation of a safety pin. Plus, any time you get to talk about David Bowie, it's pretty sweet.
Really engaging academic analysis of punk, mod, ted, glam, skinhead, and Rastafarian culture/style. Hebdige examines the role class plays in each of these predominantly working class subcultures, and he also remembers to include race in the discussion. He explains how British imperialism of the West Indies both contributes to white working class rhetoric, but also sometimes alienation. Hebdige is also a big reader of Barthes and integrates his theories about symbols and myths throughout, as a way to make sense of the fashion of each of these groups.
A must read. Despite its 1981 publication date, Hebdige's book remains the most compelling study of the politics and economy of sub-culture "style". Like other reviewers on Goodreads I had fun reading it. I'd like to see it updated for the ironic post-9/11, blog-era - hipsters as they are today - because even though their behavior is patterned after the Teddies and Punks who preceded them, something about the dynamic has changed...
Another title I read while in college, during my Poets and Punks: History of British Subcultures course. This book is an academic classic, having to do in part with the appropriation of objects and symbols into fashion/style for subversive means. When is a safety pin not just a safety pin? When it's through the nose of the Queen of England on a Sex Pistols t-shirt. Oi! This is a short, yet heavily academic, read.
Hebdige looks at subcultures in postwar Britain, including punk and glam rock but also mods and teddy boys, and maps their various idiosyncrasies as well as their overarching connection to Black culture. He uses semiotics and heavy doses of Marxism and ultimately wants to argue that these subculture must be read as specific responses to time periods, ideologies, and class structures. Quick but amazingly well-done, Hebdige uses lots of big ideas and fancy-pants theories in an accessible manner.
Hebdige's study punk subculture remains among the most compelling analyses of youth culture, resistance, material consumption, and music subcultures. Punk in the UK may be a distinctive social and historical phenomenon, and we may decide in retrospect that the notion of a concrete mainstream is somewhat mechanical, but Hebdige's study is a succinct, convincing, and creative analysis of youth subculture.
Dick Hebdige is a genious. I read this book about 5 years ago when I was still in school, and revisited it recently. I was working on writing a review of an art show at the Kemper Museum - Pattern ID, and referenced this book a lot. The meaning we infuse into objects, looks, styles - it is like magic/magik/magick.side note: a friend of mine recently tried to explain the difference between what is meant by Magic/k based on spelling.People are so weird.
