https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6487308-fallen
That Daniel is a fallen angel and the Lucinda Price is his loved one reincarnated.
ONE FUCKING TIME that Luce sticks up to Daniel and tells him not to treat her like an idiot (the idiot that she is) he kisses her (probably just to shut her up - for which I'm eternally grateful) then she immediately stops requesting that he treat her like an adult and an equal and he goes right back to muttering cryptic things without explaining them because her puny female mind couldn't possibly comprehend them.Oh. And ANOTHER thing!
This book is nothing like love.
Look, I could go on and on about how idiotic this book is, but I won't since I have better things to do, like, write hate mail to the publisher of this book.
Edit: As of February 26, 2010 over nine hundred goodreads users think this book is amazing*.
I mean, don't get me wrong, I fully understand really liking a book that has little to no literary value (see my guilty pleasures shelf for proof).
I'm sure a lot of you are wondering why, if I hated this book so much, I read the entire thing.
Evidence of this book's similarities to Twilight:1.
Girl attracts the hottest guys even though she has no personality or depth or anything remotely interesting about her4.
Guy is extremely mysterious (because he stands at a corner and glares at everyone passing by) rude, and tells the girl to stay away from him5.
Guy follows her around, and the girl isn't fazed whatsoever6.
Guy is 100-and-something-years-old and girl is 17I don't understand.
What is it with YA paranormal romance writers and making their characters complete dimwits with no depth.
It's a damn shame I've had such shitty experiences with YA books in my life.
It feels cheeky, in fact, for this book to just sit there on my shelf, playing coy, flicking its hair like it doesn't know shit.
It's like this: Daniel tells Luce who she should and should not talk to, makes disgusting gestures at her, talks to her as if she's a piece of crap, calls her stupid, and let's not forget the crowning glory, which is that fact that he has murdered hundreds and hundreds of incarnations of her in the past.Am I a sap, for buying into this series?
THEY FALL IN LOVE IN TWO DAYS.
I didn’t like this book the first time I read it, when it was called Twilight.
This thing was about 100 pages too long...while still simultaneously feeling like it was 100 pages too short of actual information.
You know, "INFORMATION," AKA...WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK IS GOING ONThe "mystery" of what/who Daniel and all the other keys players in this thing are were withheld until the last 30 pages of this 420+ page jackfest, and not only that, but I felt like we were moving at the pace of molasses.
I mean FUCK, come on.I don't know if I should beat my own ass for starting this...Beat my own ass even harder for finishing this...Or just call it a day and straight off myself over the fact that I am actually considering reading book two.
A more formal review of this book is on my blog which is still new. xD Check it out! Updated: March 9th, 2012. Also everyone, click here. *sigh* A fucking movie. Just what I needed.Luce.Lucinda. Fucking. Price.You'd still stalk a guy even after he flipped you off when you first locked eyes with him? Even if he told you STRAIGHT IN THE FACE that he didn't want ANYTHING to do with you.Why? Just...why?I mean, he's hot. I get it. But what the fuck about Daniel Grigori is even remotely close to sweet
But what the fuck about Daniel Grigori is even remotely close to sweet?
You know who didn't treat you like a pile of crap?But of course, Lauren Kate decided to make him the bad guy in the end.
I was just starting to like him, too.Actually, I do like Cam. He may be the bad guy, but I'd take him over Daniel any day.But seriously.
WHOEVER FINDS DANIEL GRIGORI DESIRABLE NEEDS THEIR BRAIN CELLS CHECKED.Seriously though Luce, you can forget about him and move on, you know?
You choose to be a pathetic stalker that doesn't give two shits that the hot guy is basically treating you like dog poo.
Boring, lacking interesting characters, boring, terrible love interest, Bella Swan, boring. There are so many things I could rant about the 30% that I read, but instead I shall review this is one gif.
This book is fucked
I have no idea what the school looked like (no more that a glimpse of this and that) or what the characters were like (same thing, just glimpses that don't add up to anything) or even what was going on in any of the action scenes because a) Luce doesn't notice anything except for the guys she's obsessed with and b) Kate wants to keep her readers in suspense so she makes sure not to tell you anything worth telling.
From the clues Kate plants, it is my impression that Cam is supposed to be some version of Lucifer and Luce some version of Eve, which makes Daniel some version of Adam.
And because I value this particular friend to the highest possible degree I assumed she would never subject me to anything that would fill me with the desire to RIP MY OWN BRAIN CELLS OUT and feed them to my cat.As it happens, I was wrong.I read Fallen about a year ago and I'm only now reviewing it due to all the recent fuss about the sequels.
But for the life of me I can't actually remember whatthehallapalooza happened in the story.
We begin with Daniel Grigori (whose last name gives the whole thing away if you know your stuff), a fallen angel cursed to fall in love with the same girl every seventeen years for eternity.
I don't care if they've technically known each other for centuries, make them interesting in this incarnation!I actually agreed with one of the "villains" when she said, "In this lifetime you're nothing more than you appear to be: a stupid, selfish, ignorant, spoiled little girl who thinks the world lives or dies on whether she gets to go out with some good-looking boy at school...I'd still relish this moment...killing you." I don't think that's supposed to happen.Some other things:*The climactic battle--which had no real build-up--takes place off-screen!
Yes, it has the typical plot of super intense star-crossed lovers, a love triangle, damned immortals, and it follows the normal outline (the MC arrives at a new school, is instantly attracted to some brooding dangerous guy, and he's rude as he tries to keep her away to protect her).
She's kind of delusional and the baseless intense attraction felt more like her being a helpless magnet than "love." Plus, she just ignored reality and waited for the guy to turn into who she expected him to be and to eventually clue her in when he deemed her able to comprehend the situation.
The story starts out a little slow at the beginning and not a lot really happens in the way of action until half way through the book.
But I think the author was trying to set the scene, give us some really well developed characters and lots of suspense before revealing all.
He is gorgeous, and a very sexy fallen angel, *move over Patch!* Verdict:The story does take time to get going and is definitely a slow burner, but I think it is well worth the wait, so be patient.
Fallen is a brilliant read and has set the scene for what I hope will be a very exciting series.
“What if the person you were meant to be with could never be yours?” Firstly, I really loved the movie even though everybody says it's bad or a copycat of Twilight. Yes, I must admit Fallen and Twilight have many similar things. Daniel and Edward. Luce and Bella. The insta-love that ignites so fast. But nowadays, some books are written from that same plot, however, the narration and the writers' strategy are the most important to make their books different despite of the plot.  “The only way to
I mean I liked the story, of course, but some of her behaviors were creepy as hell, and I couldn't believe that she was the center of this book where every man seemingly revolves around her.I didn't like the overly descriptive way of writing style.
I sometimes like it when it gives me some feelings to appreciate the scenes or characters instead of being bored, but in this book, I got nothing from that narration, NOTHING, as if the author wanted to prolong the story and she failed to answer all the questions she dumped between the chapters.
Luce sees Daniel on her first day itself and feels like she knows him and for some reason gets it in her head that she wants to find out everything about this guy because she likes him even though he’s cold and seems like he doesn’t want anything to do with her.
I do want to see where the characters are taken considering it’s a 5 book seriesThe greatest part is in all of this I think is that the other people she meets like Arienne are more interesting than Daniel or Luce.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hmmmm, I wonder what my friends thought of this one???? ^^^^^“This should end well,” said no Mitchell ever.Let me begin by swearing to all of you that I’m not becoming one of those “rage reviewers.” You know who I’m talking about. They are the people who seem to only choose books they know right from the jump they will hate and then write up a huge rant only to repeat the process over and over and over to infinity and beyond. Fallen ha
But thennnnnnnnnnnn 2016 rolled around and those damn “must read” lists started popping up all over my Facebook (this was on a "soon to be a movie" list) and they are my kryptonite and I get all “CHALLENGE ACCEPTED!” I also unapolagetically liked The Twilight Saga when I read it and this was supposed to be for “fans of Twilight” (I know boo hiss, whatevs) so I figured what the hell.
Now, there were a few differences – like stuff actually happened in Twilight, but jackshit happened in Fallen.
But after the next few books, THIS SERIES WAS DNF-ED.
-_-So here's the average girl who gets sent to this mysterious school, and then.....you know it!!A HOT DUDE COMES IN AND SWOOPS HER AWAY.THAT'S IT.So yes, this is ur typical story about a girl getting hypnotized by a very bad boy.
This series started getting slower and slower and if you hate reading meaningless words................-_-......YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.But besides the point that this was a total fail for me, the first book was definitely enjoyable!!You guys will (hopefully) like it.
The mysterious, supposedly good looking Daniel wasn't squee-worthy or engaging enough to hook me for another few books.
For example, can someone please tell me what the heck these shadows, errrr wait, announcers, whatevs...
But most importantly, I think regardless of this book being set up as a series, it should still be able to stand on its own and provide the reader a conclusive ending, with just enough intrigue to whet your appetite for more, not have you looking in the back cover for missing pages.
Not interested in continuing with this series and I'm surprised I finished this book.
Despite the alluring, ambiguous plot promised by the book jacket, this book fell flat in way too many areas.The story is about Lucinda Price, who is sent to Sword and Cross boarding school after being suspected of arson.
Despite his roller coaster attitude, Luce finds herself being pulled toward him like a moth drawn to a flame, and will sacrifice anything to get closer to him.The beginning of Fallen was not that bad.
It seemed like a typical exposition in an urban fantasy - character goes to so and so place, meets so and so people, finds him/herself attracted to so and so, etc.
And your immortal characters, who wouldn't necessarily be male, would be more like the Doctor than they are right now.Some authors are slightly aware of this, and they try to give us a little more Timelord in our Fallen Angel breakfast cereal.Most of them got very, very confused and started writing about Daleks as romantic leads.Sure, it gave you a candy heart, but it still wants to FUCKING KILL YOU.
2009 has been a very, very good year for YA covers, and this is easily in the top 5 (don't ask me what other books are in the top 5, because it's like the Tardis: bigger on the inside).
That you only notice it in a vague sort of way is a good thing, but the prose still isn't strong enough to make this a really great book.
It was only telling us how Luce is dealing with her new life.The story started getting interesting when the fire broke out in the school while she and Penn where trying to find The Watchers book.She felt lost and like that wasnt enough those stupid shadows wouldnt leave her alone.All she remembered was something that couldn't be true.Well , like all the paranormal young adult books here Luce had to learn the truth about Daniel's true identity.Actually I believed that she would learn that he was a fallen angel and nothing else would happen but I was WRONG.“What if the person you were meant to be with could never be yours?”What if a kiss could kill the one you love?“You're still here" he whispered.What if you were cusred to see your beloved die every seventeen years?“I've already had to wait so long.""How long?" Luce asked."Not so long that I've forgotten that you're worth everything.Every sacrifice.Every pain.”The epiloge comfused me a lot.
A disgusting, awful, jackass-glorifying book like this deserves to be cussed out, especially after I sat through most of it.
She goes through most of the book complaining about how much she loves Daniel when all he does is treat her like shit.
That guy is a manipulative, stuck-up, selfish, ungrateful asshole who deserves to be fucking castrated.
And fuck the person who made the cover, not even bothering to give credit to the original model, who had to find out her face was being used when she saw the book in the bookstore.
IF A GUY FLIPS YOU OFF, TELL HIM TO GO FUCK HIMSELF.
the main character was incredibly boring, annoying and flat. (the others too, actually, but let's stick with the main character to get to the point) every few pages lucinda had to tell us how strong and mighty daniel was, how fascinating his hair was and how hurt and excited she felt, if daniel didn't even deign to look at her. let me quote from the book's  only  (sometimes) likeable character, penn (- yes, it was that bad):“my point is,” luce said finally, “i’m not so superficial that all i’m l
(the others too, actually, but let's stick with the main character to get to the point) every few pages lucinda had to tell us how strong and mighty daniel was, how fascinating his hair was and how hurt and excited she felt, if daniel didn't even deign to look at her.
let me quote from the book's 
(sometimes) likeable character, penn (- yes, it was that bad):“my point is,” luce said finally, “i’m not so superficial that all i’m looking for is a guy who buys me things.”“not so superficial, eh?” penn asked.
maybe a few books later, lauren kate's got the knack?
And you shouldn't either.Okay, let's map out all the plot points that are straight from Twilight (a book, which, while cracktacular when I read it, does not hold up to rereadings, and I certainly have many issues with both SMeyer's writing and her portrayal of relationships, her ideas of the roles of men and women in society, and basically don't get me started on this topic).* protagonist is new girl at school.
Eclipse, anyone?* I believe there is even a line where Luce says, "And that's the first time I dreamed of Daniel Grigori." OH COME ON.Second point: Luce is the stupidest protagonist I have ever encountered.* She goes from being "yeah I'm smart!" to just being an idiotic boy-crazy stereotype.
It was a discomforting read because it was so detached from those elements of humanity that make even the most fantastical novel relatable: the Southern setting was never fully realized, and the characters were difficult to empathize with.That being said, FALLEN gets two stars from me [UPDATE: nope, not anymore, it's just terrible through and through] because I can totally see its appeal to middle school girls who have devoured the entire Twilight series and now desperately need something to read in between the next House of Night book and the Eclipse movie coming out in Summer 2010.
Horrible. Just horrible and unreadable. That is all.
So how do the fallen angels of the book Fallen compare?*Sigh*It seems like the fallen angels are starting to replace the vampire as Young Adult's "it" creature.
(Hug)However, before Daniel and Luce even speak she is attracted to him, however he proceeds to treat her like a cow-pie, flipping her off the first time they meet.
The fallen angel part doesn't appear until the end and it is never indicated in the least what terrible thing these people did to get kicked out of Heaven.Also, let me make something very clear: a good fallen angel is an oxymoron.
