https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125404.The_Indian_in_the_Cupboard
Not only that, but the Indian in the book, Little Bear, speaks in very broken English, and he has a seemingly simplistic, stereotypical outlook.
I think it's obvious to Omri, as well as to the reader, that Little Bear has a very strong system of values that include intelligence, skill, self-reliance, courage, and hard work, among other things.It's hard for me to see how having an Indian as a toy is racist, when there is also a (caucasian) cowboy, a (caucasian) English soldier, and others who are in the same position.
This book, oh man.
"The Indian speaks like a stereotypical Indian!" That's because English is a second, or more likely a fourth or fifth, language for him.
His dialog is in a stereotypical Indian voice because that's how YOU are reading it.
Little Bull simply doesn't speak English all that well.
English is a hard language, man!
This story shows Little Bull as brave, shrewd, caring, and most of all human.
It shows the reader (as it showed me when I was young) that the slurs are from stupidity or fear.
I've heard a lot of negativity regarding this book, especially that it is notoriously racist.
However, although it does feature a few dated stereotypes, I don't know if I would really call it racist.
In fact, the book is not only an entertaining fantasy story, but it also teaches younger readers about looking past the stereotypes in toys, books and the media and learning the true history and cultural diversity of humanity.
Written in powerful prose without a lot of unnecessary filler, The Indian in the Cupboard might be a little out-of-date but it is still a book that readers of all ages can enjoy.
Unlike in modern versions of this idea this book stands out because the main character, a boy called Omri who discovers the way to bring toys to life.
Though I'm not a toy fan, but still I loved the concept...The book is about Omri's relationship with the toys and his responsibility for them.This book verily reminds me of TOY STORY💕💕💕.
Omri brings a toy Red Indian to life first and then a cowboy complete with horse!!!The book is so well-written the reader is totally transported to Omri's room.
I too loved it as a kid...And I also think it's a great and fun read for every reader of every age...
When he uses his Grandmother's old key with a red satin ribbon in the cupboard with his Indian, something magical begins to happen in the cupboard.
His Indian magically comes to life.
Can Omri handle the magic of bringing his toys to life?
I had seen the film when I was younger but didn't know it was based on a book so when I borrowed it from my church's library, I decided to read it for myself.
If you like stories about magic, toys coming to life, and more then definitely check this book out for yourself.
This book is available at your local library and wherever books are sold.
so I was so freaking happy to read this book!
I remember the movie (because I also own that shit too) but for some reason I have NEVER read this book!
so that I actually read a book before it becomes a movie!
I really wanted to see if I would love it more, if not equally.Okay, kind of cool yet creepy to visualize toys coming to life.
I loved Little Bull and I enjoyed his broken English.
Little Bull and the cowboy are just like I remember!
This book made me so happy to see all of these characters and read the story line all over again.
I read this as a kid and I just re-read it last week b/c I'm teaching it to my 4th graders. I love it for the vocabulary (wielded, lithely, haughtily) that I get to expose them to. I love it for the well-defined characters. Yesterday my students wrote from the perspective of Little Bear and they loved it. (Me cold. Who this big man? What want?) And I love it for the fantastical story. Great book for kids and fun to read again as an adult.
He's new to speaking English, so it's a little short and abrupt, and I think she took it too far, but not to the point where he was a "grunting savage." I was actually impressed with how much is debunked in this, like Little Bear not having seen a teepee before (he's Iroquois) and the fact that "blood brothers" is a white construct to make the Natives "behave." It was interesting to see, and what my kids picked up on as well, was that Little Bear was kind of a spoiled brat, who had a lot of change come over him being in a situation where he wasn't the proud chief's son.
Secondly, the way Lynne Reid Banks has portrayed the Indian (apparently, Little Bear is Iroquois) is racist and offensive.
Omri, the little boy who is given Little Bear as a present (one he doesn't want--again, this is a terrible book), refuses at first to gather the materials for Little Bear to make a longhouse--which is traditionally the lodging of an Iroquois, not a tepee.
This is only one example of how Banks has made her book a metaphor for how ignorant white people have subjugated and marginalized the Indian populations of America by refusing to understand, listen to, or accommodate Indian heritage.
On the one hand the novel is a pretty straightforward story of the magic of toys coming to life and the special time that is childhood; on the other though it is at least to some extent a perpetuation of offensive racial stereotyping – the ‘Indian’ (in itself an outdated / incorrect term) ‘Little Bull’ and ‘Indians’ collectively being referred to as ‘primitive, savage, cruel and uncivilized’, seemingly taking great delight in collecting scalps, ‘with fierce black eyes’ and always apparently quick to act with violence, almost throughout.
What struck me about it was not that it was racist, or dated (it didn't feel so as much as you'd think,) but that it is a deconstruction of the idea that magical toys would be fun to have, and possibly of imagination as well.Omri gets a cupboard, a plastic indian, and a key for his birthday.
The child learns a bit of responsibility while reveling in the toy's actions vicariously.What's odd in this book is that it goes beyond it, and seems to attack the idea of imbuing the toys with life in the first place.
When Omri, a young English boy, puts a toy Indian in a medicine cabinet and turns a special key, the Indian magically comes to life.
But the Indian is not merely a toy come to life, but a real person with a history who has been transported into Omri’s time, in miniature form.
Banks provides enough history of the Five Civilized Tribes, and their role in the French and Indian Wars to demonstrate Little Bull’s humanity, and it is on this basis that Omri comes to respect him.
I realize I've been conditioned by society's sensitivities, view of political correctness, and critical spirit of looking at everything as though it contains hidden hatred; I had to fight my initial internal distaste over the stereotypical depiction of the Indian.
I put aside my critiques and squelched my inner squirming and found much to like about the story.
I appreciate how the author had the boy evolve from seeing the Indian as a plaything to realizing that, regardless of his size, the Indian was a person with needs, feelings, and a right to live his life.
Meh. I don't remember this book much. I guess it was okay.
It was also interesting to see Omri's friend, Patrick, treat it all as a game at first, then come to the same realizations that Omri has...that Little Bear and the cowboy, Boone, are not toys to be played with but real men.I was very aware of how stereotypical the portrayals of Little Bear and Boone were, but it also got me to think about how the author handled it.
Not a perfect way to deal with the stereotypes, but I really do think the author was trying to address them.Overall, a good book.
This book was one of my favorites as a kid and I hadn't read it since then, so I decided it was time for another go. And it was just as charming as ever. What's more fun than toys coming to life? I'm convinced this book is where Toy Story got the idea from. Plus Little Bear and Boone make the greatest pair, like Buzz Lightyear and Woody.
This was better than expected!
I did this as an audiobook and the narration was great!
I loved how she did the voice of Little Bull.
It added a lot of personality to the story.
But this I actually liked!
The care needed for these small people (and lengths he goes to take care for his Indian and give him what he wants...).
Little Bull is a bossy little Indian who frustrated me at times.
Somewhere between like and okay.
I loved the scene where he realized what he is standing on when first brought to life!
So it’s maybe a little surprising that I wasn’t overly fond of the classic Indian in the Cupboard.Omri is disappointed with his birthday gift.
Omri is delighted with the new friendship the two strike up, and begins spending his free time gazing into the medicine cabinet and listening to Little Bull’s thrilling stories.
Things only get more intriguing when Omri adds a toy cowboy to the cabinet, curious to see if a cowboy/Indian fight will ensue.It can’t be denied that Ms. Banks’ work encourages the imagination.
That said, Indian in the Cupboard a fun, light read and it’s entertained numerous children over the years.
4.5!This was fun and exciting and everything I was hoping it'd be!I first heard about this book after spending a rainy afternoon at the cottage this past July.
Admittedly I had never watched or heard of it before but it was my husband's favorite movie growing up.
So we nestled into the sofa with some blankets and popcorn and enjoyed the take-back to days in the 90s.Obviously once I discovered the movie was based off a book I just had to get it.
Really excited to move on to the rest of the books because I loved Omri and Little Bear so stinking much!
I loved the magical adventure when a toy comes to life.
For those that do not know, young Omri locks his plastic toy American Indian in the cupboard and the Indian comes to life!
All this is somewhat sad for me to say, since the book is well paced, magical, and simply fun from my WASPy perspective in the twenty-first century.
If I were American Indian, I would not have found it "fun." And that to me is a good reason I shouldn't be encouraging my son to read it.What do you think?
But it surprised me how racist this book was, and it's only thirty years old.
A proctoring-during-STAR-testing reread.
Pros: action-packed, good characterization of Omri and Patrick, moves quickly and has pretty good writing.
Keeps kids instantly engaged and reading.
Even as a critical, discomfited reader I was racing through and waiting to see what would happen next (I didn't remember it from my first read over twenty years ago).
Cons: "problematic" is an understatement when it comes the ridiculous stereotypes *combined* with the whole "he's a real person, this has some basis in fact" things like the longhouse vs.
I guess my policy will be to recommend The Porcupine Year to follow this one whenever I hear of a teacher doing it as a classroom read-aloud!
✩ 4 Stars ✩
What a great book! I know a 6 year old boy would really enjoy this. I think I'll buy him a copy.
Suddenly no longer the autonomous plastic figure but he is a real live Indian of the Iroquois tribe with a large appetite and a very strong will.
What follows is a chaotic series of events that has Omri going from shock to joy to confusion to blind panic.What an enchanting concept to have your toys turn into real live people, something that I often longed for as a child.
With its compelling narrative and accessible subject matter the ‘Indian in the Cupboard’ is a joyful read for any child starting to read independently, progressing onto the subsequent books in the series.
It would be a lovely book to promote creative writing in a Y3/Y4 class.
The Indian in the Cupboard is a very moving story about a boy named Omri who discovers he has a magical cupboard that can bring plastic toys to life.In some places, the text seems a little racist, dealing mainly with stereotypes.
At first, this stereotypical way of portraying the characters jars a little, but you get used to it.Putting any accusations of racism aside, this is a moving story.
Omri must learn that these plastic figures he has brought to life are no longer just toys, but people.
While I can understand that the intent of the book was to entertain and educate young people about Native Americans, I just can't shake the feeling that this book is too creepy to enjoy unless you have nostalgia for it and know very little about Native peoples history.
Making a member of a different race a toy that belongs to a white child is problematic and just because Omri is nice to his come-to-life-toy doesn't make it okay to minimize the conflict between the settlers and the natives.
Also the writing was unimpressive and the plot was bland so this book was a chore to read.
The second installment in the mommy-Will summer movie-book club! Really cute book. Will loved it and it was fun to read to him. Movie was also great. But Because of Winn Dixie is still my favorite (our first club selection).
I’ve tried a couple of times to watch the movie version, but I just can’t get into it—probably because they cast American actors and this is very much an English story, despite its reliance on American western mythology.If you haven’t read The Indian in the Cupboard and you’re still a kid, drop everything and read it right now!
I’m going to do a plot summary, but writing about The Indian in the Cupboard gives me a chance to dust off my thoughts on what I call the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Approach to Exposition.
My family always told me that my great-grandma was 100% Choctaw — I live in Oklahoma, so this seemed quite plausible — but I took a 23andMe last year, and it turns out I'm .02% Native at best. I liked this book a lot more when I was 35 and thought the action figure character was my kind, but it still holds a special place in my heart. 5 stars!
My kids and I read this book aloud together. It is getting a little more difficult to find books that we can read together that everyone can read and will hold everyone’s attention. This was definitely a good choice. All three kids are ready to check out the second book from the library! This was a fun book that I had never read before, so I also enjoyed the magic contained in its pages!
