https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847146.Little_Pear
A story about a family growing up in China and the little boy named Little Pear who is always getting into trouble. It's a Chinese version of Judy Blume's Superfudge set in China. The story is simple and has it's own charm. I think 6 and 7 year olds will still enjoy these stories. It is a window into another time and culture.
Definitely vintage...
today's parents would not let their children have so much freedom.
And the girls were much more in the background & more domestic, with no way for a child reader to know if that's representative of the time, the culture, or that family.
However, it's a fun read, still relevant and valuable, and most of all amusing, to modern families.
Surprisingly culturally friendly: Little Pear is first a bold, impulsive, loving & lovable little boy, second he is from a small Chinese village of about a century ago...
and nothing strikes me as racist or stereotypical or derogatory at all.
I read this book when I was like nine or ten, and it taught me a lot - about China, culture, chain of events, fables - things of that sort.Little Pear is the name of a young Chinese boy.
This book, basically, is about his adventures in China.
It is very weird, but whoever reads it is sure to learn something or other.I had some favorite bits, as I remember, like when Little Pear, ignorant, slaphappy, and egged on by a group of friends, lights a firework and it explodes in his face.
He always survives (I don't know how!), and he always learns a lesson.
This was our Sonlight read-aloud for the last few weeks.
The book is filled with the silly and mischievous adventures of a Chinese boy named Little Pear.
Each chapter is a new adventure, and, in spite of how mischievous Little Pear is and how much trouble he gets into, his family loves him and is always just relieved and happy that he made it home ok.
I must add that this read-aloud immediately followed Gladys Aylward on our reading schedule, and it was such a relief to read something light and fun after such a serious book.
Let's just say this. The day when John Eric could read well enough to read this book, it was a Great Honor to put it into his hands. :) If you love children's books and have never seen this, PLEASE go find it.
Little Pear is a handful, but I found the stories a bit disturbing.
He goes to the city when he knows he is not to, and a nice man helps him home (glad he found a nice one!).
He disobeys, lights a firecracker and burns his brand new outfit.
His mother's response is: "Oh Little Pear, what a bad boy you are!
But I am glad that it is only your jacket that is hurt, and not you.
Firecrackers are very dangerous, and you must never, never, light one again!
It appears Little Pear is to raise himself.
Drawn by an old set of vintage covers, I plucked this book set off the shelf at our children's library.
I read the original version handsomely illustrated by the author(highly recommend.) Each chapter is its' own curious mischievous adventure of a young Chinese boy named Little Pear.
The author takes us through life in China through the eyes of a little boy.
My children and I fell in love with these stories.
This is the perfect book series to read aloud.
The author's story telling has a beautiful sing songiness too it that I miss amongst so much of today's more edginess that is so common in children's novels today.
One of the things that was so funny is that Little Pear hid in the vegetables and got to go to the fair.
Another funny thing is that some people are all bald, and they only have a patch of hair.
It was funny because one had only a little strip of hair on his forehead.
It was funny how Little Pear lit the firecracker, because he told everyone to stand back, but he didn't, and he burnt a hole in his jacket.
I went to China but some people say it doesn't count because I was in my mom's tummy." -- Joshua, age 6 1/2
I love this book! Even though it takes place in a little Chinese village, it captures so well the way boys are! Little Pear reminds me of my Calvin, looking for adventure and finding some trouble along the way. As I read the book with my boys, I find myself repeatedly saying, "Please don't do this yourself!" But I also find us all laughing hysterically. This is one of my feel-good books.
Reading for CC1 wk 9Cute, fun book. The kids and I laughed over the antics of Little Pear, a very mischievous yet not in a mean way boy!
Little Pear's antics delighted my 6 and 4 year olds.
Similar to Curious George, Little Pear's inquisitiveness often leads him into trouble, but all turns out in the end.
The book is a fun read with sweet parental interactions, but (and I feel like a stick in the mud saying this) I worried my already-adventurous 4 year old would get some ideas for mischief-making.
The story takes place in a time when it was normal for a 5 year old to walk around the village himself (already a lot different than our life!) and even then Little Pear finds some ways to push/break the boundaries.
I appreciated the cultural significant of this book, but the escapades of a tiny child who should not be unsupervised for most of his life were quite disturbing. It was presented as silly and mischievous, but he was genuinely in danger and could have died in a couple scenarios. It was cute enough to keep going and my kids enjoyed the stories, but it made the unrealistic situations made the whole book less authentic and believable.
Read for Judah's school. Too much focus on him being a misbehaving child. Ya, he had consequences he had to deal with. But just didn't sit well with me. Maybe I'm crazy. But I di like the intro into the Chinese culture for Judah.
Cute story about a lovable and mischievous youngest son in a family in China. Many cute misadventures that would have most of us calling 911 about in today's world. Made my 6-year old laugh out loud and talk about Little Pear incessantly.
My six year-old and I giggled at Little Pear's mischievous adventures.
Good and interestingKeep it up little Pear
A cute story of a little boy and his family growing up in China. It is a window into another time and place, and I love how it helps teach my kids about Chinese culture.
It is a really cute book
My kids (ages 3, 5, and 7) loved this book!
This sort of reminded me of the Dick and Jane books. Simple, repetitive language except with longer stories, and, of course, set in China. Very vintage!
This book is easy enough for earlier chapter book readers to read on their own. Some of the terms used are outdated but the stories are of a cute, slightly naughty little boy named Little Pear. Recommended by a young homeschooler as one of her favorite books.
Little Pear is a boy from China that is always getting himself into some kind of mischief.We read this book for my Kinder's school. It had short chapters that were able to keep a younger kids attention. The book reminded me a little bit of Curious George and how he is always getting into trouble, but everything works out in the end. The stories weren't the best, but we all enjoyed them. The book is also very short.
Logan's comment when we'd read another chapter was "That Little Pear, mama, he's always getting into trouble!" This was a great book for kids Logan's age.
In each chapter, Little Pear has an adventure, learns something, and comes out okay.
For example, in one chapter, Little Pear and his sister Ergu go to fly their kites.
As they leave the house, their mother tells LP to not lose his kite and Ergu to take take of LP.
When their mom asks how it went, they tell her that LP did not lose his kite and Ergu took care of LP.
My kids really loved this book, in no small part because they related to 6 year old Little Pear!
I loved how it enters into the differences of another culture respectfully and makes them real through the eyes of a child.
I think people complaining about the freedom Little Pear has--and his naughtiness--are missing what books do for us: namely, let us live vicariously through the events and characters of the story.
They got to live through a fantasy I *know* they all have, and then without any moralizing actually see it through to the dangerous end--they are not likely do it in real life!
I read this to Paul when he was in first grade, and now we've just finished reading it to Lila who's in first grade.
They are slow paced, gentle stories about a little boy in China (probably turn of the century)who gets into all sorts of mischief.
What I love about them is the chance to visit a family who lives in a time and place that I know very little about it.
His life is so different from ours, but yet there are those elements that we can all relate to such as the family pet disappearing, a new baby, playing with friends, and eating your favorite candy.
This book has the fun adventures of a little 5-year-old Chinese boy. I believe Jamey really liked this book, and some of his adventures were really fun. I enjoyed seeing a different culture. The writing style was interesting as well. Not my favorite, but OK. There are opportunities with this book to talk to kids about being adventurous but also being obedient. Little Pear often got into trouble, but there were clear lessons learned.
I remember sitting in the school room in our camping tent and listening to my mother read this story to me. It was one of my favorites. We read it in the 2nd grade sunlight crriculum, which was filled with many other wonderful books. I reread it yo myself when I was a little bit older as well and greatly enjoyed it then too . But of course my fondest memory of this book ( as of yet ) will be it my mother reading it aloud to me.
This book is about a little Chinese boy who is constantly on the look out for adventures and fun. Little Pear is the main character and he gets himself in many predicaments, but always learns a lesson from them. This book is in the genre of historical-fiction, and is for ages 6-9 years old. I rated this book three stars because it was cute, taught meaningful lessons, and established a good sense of adventure. Some common themes in this book are adventure, family, and life lessons.
An adorable little book at a very simple level that tells the adventures of a little Chinese boy. It introduces food, customs and vocabulary (junk=chinese boat) to children. It is not set at a modern time. He likes to get into mischief (kind of reminds me of Curious George's mischief). I hope to be able to request the other books in the series. Perfect for studying China and introducing it in a fun way to my children.
If you judge a book by it's cover, you have no time to love it. I am embarrassed to admit that I almost judged Little Pear by Eleanor Francis Lattimore. One look at the cover made me believe that my boys wouldn't like this book. News flash - my boys LOVED Little Pear! And I did too.Full Review available at: http://angelastew.wordpress.com/2014/...
