https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236709.Cashelmara
The characters are wonderfully real and complicated, grabbing your attention and holding it to the end, and the story progresses so smoothly that it is like watching a movie.Howatch uses a device that has become common, but isn’t always my favorite, a passing of the story from one point of view to another.
We begin with Edward’s view, pass to Marguerite’s (Margaret), then to Patrick (Edward II) the son of Edward from his first marriage.
She always makes me want to know more about the real people behind her fictional ones and I find myself reading histories and researching online for tidbits of information.
When Edward's eldest son Patrick inherits the de Salis lands and fortune, he marries Marguerite's niece Sarah and upon their return from New York they live in London until their lavish lifestyle and Patrick's gambling brings it to a screeching halt.
All in all a near perfect read, the scenes between Patrick, Sarah and Hugh were downright bone chilling, let alone the effects of the famine on the Irish tenants.
4.5/5 stars and the story of the third "Edward" continues in Wheel of Fortune - but with entirely different characters.
I’ve always been a fan of big fat sagas, and Cashelmara did not disappoint.
Set in Ireland in the 19th century, we follow three generations of the wealthy de Salis family.
If the Edwards are new to you, just think affairs, betrayals, murders and revenge, and then sit back and enjoy!I’m now looking forward to reading Penmarric, which is based on Henry II, Eleanor of Aquitaine and their Devils Brood, and The Wheel of Fortune which shadows Edward III and his usurping offspring, the origins of the Wars of the Roses.
It os one book that I will always keep on my shelf alongside Trade Winds (M.M. Kaye) and Pillars of the Earth (Ken Follett).Cashelmara traces the loves, lies and intrigues of a late 19th aristocratic family based both in England and Ireland.
It is split into 6 different parts, each narrated by a different character.
As other reviewers have mentioned, the story is loosely - but brilliantly - based on the lives of the Three Edwards, and the 'modern' portrayal of these medieval characters is brilliantly done.
When I re-read 'Penmarric', some months ago, I fell in love all over again, and so I took the same next step as I did all those years ago.I picked up ‘Cashelmara’.The story is set in the middle of the 19th century, and it follows the turbulent lives of three generations of an English family, and the fortunes of Cashelmara, the family’s Irish estate.Edward de Salis was a widower with grown-up children when he visited cousins in New York, and brought the much younger Marguerite home as his bride.
Perhaps the author should have bothered to include more on-page plot incident instead of relating everything second-hand & teasing the reader with periodic mantras like "Had I but known, I might have done things differently..." Because I really don't GAF about guessing which character is a thinly-veiled recreation of which historical personage when the character voices are boring as batshit & all I can think is "helloooo, you're a pompous, entitled blowhard -- GTFO." And if I had to read one more time about what a masculine fail Patrick was or how Edward resented his advanced age, I might've put an axe through this brick.
You know how it goes--pages filled with family dramas, passion, hatred, and in the case of Cashelmara--revenge!
And like Edward's reign which was marked by petty squabbling, mismanagement and political and military defeats, an all around disastrous reign, Howatch tells the story of the rise and fall of fortunes of the de Salis family.
Each successive Lord de Salis tells his story, two of the wives tell their version of events and most interesting is an outsider of sorts--one of the tenants who rises to power.
On a visit to the US he meets a much younger cousin, Marguerite Marriott (Margaret of France, 40 years junior), and marries her, with a resulting tricky marriage and 2 sons, Thomas and David (Thomas, Earl of Norfolk and Edmund, Earl of Kent)Edward has children from his first marriage who are of an age or older than his wife, causing family problems.
The POV changes from Edward to Marguerite, to Patrick, to Sarah, to Maxwell Drummond and finally to Ned. There are moments of icy cold suspense as the story builds.
Read this in the 70s when it was first published. LOVED it then.
This scandalous through the generations English family saga is set in the mid to late 1860s. Beginning with the patriarch Edward de Salis and ending with his grandson, Patrick, the saga follows the changes in fortune of the family's Irish estate, Cashelmara. The novel is divided into several sections which are narrated by different members of the family. The plot contains a good mix of romance and mystery.
I like getting to know all aspects of each character and I thought Howatch’s characters in Cashelmara were mysterious, dark, complex, and compelling.For example, when I started reading from Edward’s POV in the beginning I really liked him.
But when I started reading from Marguerite’s POV in the second part of the book, I saw Edward in a completely different light.
I liked each of the characters when I was reading from their POV but when I read from someone else’s perspective I didn’t like them at all.
But that’s ok, I loved the feeling it gave the novel.
This book is written from the POV of 6 of the characters.
Each character has one section which follow chronologically.
I though it might have been more interesting to know what each character thought of the same event than each section focusing solely on one character during a different time span.
I found myself reading the book to get it finished so I could move onto something else.
Something better.
Rather than being so engrossed that I couldn't put it down.
But a lot of wasted time went into the long, boring background before the interesting part finally began.
I loved this book. It was like an 1850's soap opera! Drama! Drama! Drama! What I liked most about this book is that the story is told thru the voice of 4 of the characters in the book. I was intriqued by how 4 people saw themselves and how they were seen by the people around them, how 4 people can take one event and view it so differently. This books has been around for years. I read it years ago but I picked it up again and still love it.
Edward is succeeded by his wayward son, Patrick, who also marries an American girl, Sarah, but who is given to questionable relationships with male "friends." The final generation detailed is that of Ned, Patrick's son.I was not surprised to learn that Cashelmara was a best seller around the time it was published in 1974.
This function also allowed the story to continue beyond the life of one individual family member.However, I was surprised to realize that Cashelmara is a recreation of the life of Edward I, II, and III of England from fourteenth century England.
4.5 starsCashelmara is a saga about an Irish family through three generations.
Although designated as historical fiction, the novel shines in the characters and their relationships.
I’d call it a psychological thriller as well as historical fiction.The de Salis family owns an estate in England, but can’t seem to give up the remote, mysterious Cashelmara in Ireland.
It was a living silence, unearthly and unnerving.” The estate has a mystical quality to it and is a constant presence in the characters’ motivations.The story is told from the points of view of three generations of men, their wives and an activist farmer.
Telling the story of the lives and exploits of three generations of the aristocratic English family who have long been landlords of an Irish estate, this novel is rich with great characters, a great family story filled with intrigue and it certainly never fails to pull out another surprising twist of fate.
The story is told over time by six characters including the lords, their wives and their landlords each of whom assumes a character trait that is telling of their part of the overall saga.
I will definitely be reading more Howatch novels if this one is indicative of their appeal.
I found myself not caring for any of the characters Howatch created and wanting to read more about Edward I and Edward II in their own time instead.Misfit said..."What she does with this trilogy is parallels the Plantagenets - but the characters and settings are different in the other books.
Penmarric is Henry II and Eleanor and their devil's brood.
Wheel of Fortune continues (again in different setting and characters) with E3, The Black Prince and Joan of Kent, John of Gaunt and his Katherine, Henry Bolingbroke and Richard II."
Own.I cannot recommend it.
It is set in the early 1800s and plot points are based on the Edward I, II, and III, but I hope not very closely.
While the writing is superb, it was dark and disturbing ...
and sordid.
But it was so dark that I didn't really sleep one night and felt the horror of the situation.
What really disturbs me is that I read this for the first time as a High Schooler, wrote a paper on it, found it in the school library, and am pretty sure didn't understand it then.
Although it's been over 20 years since I read this book, I still remember it. The story is intriguing, but so is the way Susan Howatch writes. I'll never forget how I was so into the story and the character, and then she completely switches the point of view to the arch enemy! At first I was not happy about it but she is quite masterful at it. I've enjoyed her books.
I was very disappointed in this book. It was full of terrible people with no redeeming qualities doing terrible things.
Another re-read of my current Howatch binge.I was wondering if my assessment of the characters from when I was much younger stood up, and, yeah, everyone of the middle generation in this book (Patrick, MacGowan, Drummond, Sarah) are all terrible people. Marguerite was my favorite character in this book.
3 1/2 stars rounded to 4 stars. Interesting easy summer read. Classic epic saga following the de Salis family from 1859 to 1891 in England, Ireland and America, focusing on their ancestral home in Ireland, Cashelmara. Even though the novel is over 700 pages in length it held my interest I think partly because the story was told in six "books" or sections each one told from the POV of a different character. Also there was no lack of drama with much intrigue, lies and betrayals
One of my favourite parts of the book were the descriptions of the Irish countryside as well as learning more about the historical backdrop (ie.
Keeping the characters and storyline in the forefront is not an easy thing to do when you're tackling a lot of various topics all in one book -- including Ireland's right to rule themselves, emigration, Irish famine/poverty, political unrest, adultery, financial ruin ...
I guess feeling something (even anger at a character) is better than feeling nothing, right?While there were some slow parts in this large book I did find it to be an easy and enjoyable read.
The surface level story is engaging, but what made me love this book was the historical parallel and seeing how Susan Howatch retold history in a way that created a full and original story but still stayed true to the events and characters of history.Some scenes are searingly evocative (god, that starvation scene), but what really stood out to me were the characters.
Historical events were reimagined in convincing and, while different, very similar ways.
It almost felt like reincarnation where the events of the past are destined to replay themselves again and again.This is a long book.
No one seems to like the castle and estate but there is a mysterious pull causing the family to spend an excessive amount of time there.
This character driven novel is a compelling, richly gothic family saga that will cause you to read into the night and never let go until the very end.
Spanning three generations, from early to late 1800s, this gripping story is told in six parts with a viewpoint from each character, broken up like this:Edward-DutyMarguerite-FidelityPatrick-LoyaltySarah-PassionMaxwell Drummond-AmbitionNed-RevengeMasterful in it’s concept, Howatch cleverly takes you from character to character as if you are enjoying a theatre in the round play.
I think I read some Susan Howatch books years ago and remembered liking her, so when this came by as a weekly deal, I thought I'd give her a try again. I love novels set in Ireland, but here Ireland is just an impoverished, famine-ridden place, with none of the characters wanting any part of it. Amazon customers seem to like the novel, but I found all of the characters unlikable (to a greater or lesser degree) so I can't agree. I had to force myself to finish, which is my definition of two stars.
A very satisfying gothic novel. Not typically my thing, but I will read anything Howatch writes. She has a real gift for prose that makes anything she writes a pleasure to read. Not super memorable, but a satisfying escape.Note- if you are interested in Howatch, I highly recommend her trilogy about the Episcopal church in present day London: The Wonder Worker, The Heartbreaker, and The High Flyer. Those I read over and over. This I might pick up in 10 years at the beach.
Family novel set in the later part of the 19th century. Told from five different character POV. Some were better than others. What I did like about this book was the setting of English in Ireland pre-republic, post famine. It supposedly follows a Plantagenet history set in a different time and location.
My neighbor recommended this to me. I felt it was mediocre. Maybe because I've been reading such great books recently or because I read a great one right after it. But I slogged my way through all 700+ pages dutifully. However, I was more engrossed by page 2 of Time Traveller's Wife if that puts it in perspective.
Melt into intrigueThis novel, like all Howatch's intricate works, is based on The House of Plantagenet, which coincidentally was Thomas Costain's biographical inspiration. We have a marriage of a too young girl to a too old man, surrounded by English customs threatened by Irish revolts, peppered with sadistic antagonists and innocent love affairs. It is a stunner.
