https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397370.Lucky_Starr_and_the_Oceans_of_Venus
Since 1972, reprints have included a foreword by Asimov explaining that advancing knowledge of conditions on Venus have rendered the novel's descriptions of that world inaccurate.
این کتاب برای نخستین بار در سال 1954 میلادی، در آن زمان که بر اساس اطلاعات دریافت شده از زهره؛ تصور می‌شد که سراسر سطح این سیاره پوشیده از اقیانوس آب است؛ و در زیر پوشش ابرهای جو آن، از گرمای فرساینده ی خورشید، بدور مانده‌ است، نوشته شده؛ اما پس از دهه ی شصت سده ی بیستم میلادی، و پرتاب ماهواره ی «مارینر دو» به سوی زهره؛ مشخص شد سطح زهره، بسیار داغتر از آنست که هیچ آبی بصورت مایع در آن وجود داشته باشد؛ جهنمی خشک و سوزان که تمامی آب سطح آن بصورت بخار، در ابرهای اتمسفر زهره‌ است.
If you, like me, love Sci Fi since a young age you'll find this book is your dream come true.
Lucky Starr is a highly trained sort of space special forces dedicated to protect humans living in other planets.
I read this book first at the age of 12 and I loved it.
I re-read it recently, with mi niece and she loved it too, as any girl or boy with at least some sort of scientific curiosity will.Asimov wastes no words to introduce us to this Venus-working environment where strange psychic attacks have been plaguing the working force delaying projects that are instrumental for human development.
The world of Isaac Asimov's Lucky Starr is a young science geek's wildest dream come true.
Was his series of young-adult Lucky Starr novels merely the public expression of an escapist fantasy universe, or did he intend to win young, intelligent minds to scientific inquiry by showing just how cool science could be?For his third adventure, Council of Science hero Lucky Starr turns to the ocean planet of Venus, lured by mysterious and contradictory messages from a fellow Councilman turned criminal.
Paradoxically, the most inventive of extraterrestrial settings in the Lucky Starr series is also the least accurate, scientifically: the real surface of Venus is dry, pitch-dark and far too hot for carbon-based life.
Πάνω από δυόμιση χρόνια πέρασαν από την τελευταία φορά που διάβασα βιβλίο του Ισαάκ Ασίμοφ και η αλήθεια είναι ότι μου έλειψε.
Πρώτα-πρώτα είναι πιο μικρό σε μέγεθος -μην κοιτάτε που η ελληνική έκδοση πλησιάζει τις διακόσιες σελίδες, μεταξύ των δεκαέξι κεφαλαίων υπάρχουν δυο-τρεις λευκές σελίδες.
Όπως και να'χει, με αυτό το μικρό βιβλίο πέρασα πολύ καλά, ευχαριστήθηκα δράση, όμορφες εικόνες και επιστημονική φαντασία, χωρίς να κουραστεί και πολύ το μυαλό μου.
Μην περιμένετε, δηλαδή, το επίπεδο σε πλοκή, ιδέες και γραφή να είναι ίδιο με αυτό των μεγάλων αριστουργημάτων του συγγραφέα, όμως πιστεύω ότι θα περάσετε ευχάριστα την ώρα σας διαβάζοντας το βιβλίο αυτό.
The topic in question may differ considerably, but it always comes down to people mostly talking about it, not much action or plot, and the solution being something that came with information hidden from the reader, so he would never be able to see it coming.
The protagonist jumps to conclusion that it has to be someone present in every case, with an ability to control the thoughts of people.
Why not a hidden camera that informs the bad guy from afar?Then the protagonist figures out the frogs are not the real perpetrators by the way they behave and act.
μια υπόθεση μυστηρίου σε μια υποθαλάσσια πολιτεία στον πλανήτη της Αφροδίτης.. ενδιαφέρον ο τρόπος που παρουσιάζει την ζωή κάτω από την θάλασσα.. κυλάει γρήγορα..
Pero será que es el tercer libro de una saga de la que no he leído los primeros, o que hace mucho que no pruebo la ciencia ficción.Sea lo que fuera, no me terminó de gustar.
La pareja de personajes protagonistas son la viva imagen del típico par: tío alto y guapo y listo + tipo bajito, más torpe e impulsivo; el primero tira del segundo y así.
Le ha faltado profundizar, tenía puntos muy buenos, pero ha sido efímero y frío, un volumen más bien flojo, que me ha desalentado un poco con respecto al autor.
reading these books is rather addictive and as I catch myself sneaking a look around at lunch time I realised that its almost furtive and clandestine in my reading of them.
Anyway I think from this one rather than the boys adventures in space and time - I think what I realised was that if you enjoy a book once then you will again and that there is neither shame or regret in reading it even if it is years later.
As they approach Venus, Starr and Bigman discover that their pilot and navigator have succumbed to mind control and turned against them, sending the vessel crashing into the ocean.After a brief scuffle, the pilot and navigator regain control of themselves, but recall nothing of the incident.
There, Starr and Bigman meet with senior council member, Doctor Mel Morriss, only to learn that previous incidents of mental aberrations have occurred in the recent past—and Lou Evans might himself be a victim.Starr requests an interview with Evans, but his fellow councilman is reluctant to explain his actions.
Se siete degli adolescenti, considerate sicuramente una stella in più.Raccomandazione: se siete un lettore adulto e vi accostate per la prima volta ad Asimov, non iniziate da questo ciclo, incominciate dal [[ASIN:8804664991 Ciclo delle Fondazioni]], l'opera migliore a parer mio da lui scritta.
Quest'opera la consiglio ad un appassionato che come me vuole leggere tutti i 4 cicli principali (Fondazioni, Spaziali, Robot, Lucky Starr) di Asimov riguardanti lo Spazio oppure ad un lettore giovane che si avvicina alla Fantascienza con la F maiuscola e cerca una lettura avvincente e non troppo impegnativa.

By far my favourite book of the series so far.
Much closer to the Asimov I know and love, let’s hope the rest of the books follow suit.
SPOILERS AHEAD!!!Even if the premise takes place in the water world of Venus (which we now know is no possible), I found it very enjoyable.
Also the now common themes of mind control and galaxy wellness, for the greater good approach, take place, but in a slightly different way.
How we have two mind controlling, yet peaceful species within the solar system, I hope these are retaken in the following books.

This one is, arguably, a tad weaker due to a few more holes in the plotline, and, obviously, the vision of Venus as a planet completely covered in ocean and teeming with life has not held up.
But for tried and true Asimov fans who want to take in his lesser works, this has plenty to recommend it, not the least of which are an ending with multiple twists, and some fascinating descriptions of extraterrestrial life forms.
Fluff, but tasty!
Leyendo Lucky Starr: Los océanos de Venus (1954) de I. Asimov te trasportas a la infancia. Además de cumplir con las premisas del género en su Época dorada, nos encontramos con un argumento sencillo, héroes salvadores, un gran despliegue de datos del universo (verdaderos o falsos) y un tratamiento positivo de los seres extraterrestres. Evasión para un par de horas conseguida.
Not quite as horrible as the first two books in the series, but still not good. This series is Asimov at his very weakest
Its like reading 1950s Flash Gordon.
Ame los giros de trama :3
The book again shows its age... It's closer to three stars, Asimov or not, but it gets four out of nostalgia.
Ένα έχω να πω: ευτυχώς ο Ασίμοφ μπόρεσε και καλύτερα.
A fun read that I haven’t read since I was a teenager. Enjoyed reading it again.
¡Qué bonito se describe aquí Venus! ¡Y las ranas-v! ¡Y la comida hecha de diferentes hongos! ¡Y el dispositivo de control de emociones! Todo es encantador aquí.
A welcome departure from the general setting of the series.
The third of six novels in the juvenile series, this tome was penned in the mid 1950s. When re-published later, Asimov had to admit that many of the scientific assumptions underlying the adventures of the hero on the second planet from the sun were erroneous due to his misconceptions of the situations prevailing there. In addition the publishers originally made Asimov do a fairly vast re-write in order to change the presentation of his main character. Not remembered at all.
Benché sia del tutto campato per aria dal punto di vista scientifico (come si premura di sottolineare lo stesso Asimov nella nota introduttiva), il terzo romanzo dedicato a Lucky Starr riprende quota a livello narrativo rispetto all’episodio che narra la caccia ai pirati degli asteroidi, sfoggiando una di quelle storie a incastri, care al Dottore, che mischiano all’invenzione fantascientifica il racconto giallo dai ben calibrati colpi di scena.
Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus / 1421049260I enjoy Asimov's Lucky Starr series very much, but this novel is definitely my favorite.
The plot of "Oceans of Venus" follows the usual-yet-delightful Lucky Starr mystery format.
Something is quite wrong at the lovely underwater station on Venus -- Lucky Starr's friend and fellow councilman has been accused of serious crimes, and the Venusian settlers are behaving very oddly.
If you like scifi and Sherlock Holmes and haven't been introduced to the beauty of Lucky Starr, definitely check this novel out.
Lucky Starr and The Oceans of Venus is a science fiction mystery set on Venus.
But this is a science fiction story written in 1954, so this makes the story even more fun.
In the story, Issac Asimov gives small hints to what is really going on and Lucky Starr is more like Sherlock Holmes in this story then the previous two books.
Overall, Lucky Starr and The Oceans of Venus is a fun book that can be enjoyed by all ages.
I look forward to reading the next story, Lucky Starr and The Big Sun of Mercury.I rated this book a 7½ out of 10.
Stretching a bit (but not too much to break it!) the Science to fit the Fiction of a solar system peopled by human colons and extraterrestrial intelligent life forms, Asimov cooks up a fun, fresh and adventurous space opera saga, peppering it with quite a few Western genre tropes and leaving the tone evolve to a Cold War investigations series (moving with the author’s times, so to say).
series: an added value for any Asimov enthusiast!Stranded on a water-covered Venus, richly populated with indigenous species, David and Bigman will struggle against a mindcontrol-wielding adversary.
This adventure follows 
Something you have to keep in mind about the Lucky Starr series is that they were written for kids.
The descriptions of the titanic sea creatures in the oceans of Venus are just as breathtaking as a National Geographic documentary on the real things in Earth's oceans (newer editions of the books do have a foreword where Asimov explains that the oceans idea was based on outdated scientific projections).
Asimov manages to come up with realistic-sounding descriptions of things without going overboard on the technical details.My only complaint as an adult looking back is that female characters in the series are virtually non-existent.
In this entry to Asimov's YA series, Councilman David "Lucky" Starr and his sidekick Bigman Jones head to Venus to investigate another Councilman who has been accused of treason.
Because Venus is an important producer of yeast-based foods for the Solar system, these incidents are a real problem.
Eventually, Starr and Jones must head underwater to discover the source of the accidents.This novella is not as good as the previous one, but it's still mildly entertaining.
The biggest problem here is that much of what we now know about Venus contradicts what Asimov speculated about here.
(view spoiler)[ Mind-controlling frogs?
(hide spoiler)] Really?
