https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74619.Tales_of_Ancient_Egypt
If I have ever read a book of Egyptian myths before, I don’t remember it.
This little volume was a very pleasant introduction to the Egyptian mythos—something that I’ve learned by osmosis while reading books about the land’s history and art and reading fiction set in Ancient Egypt.
I realize now that the vocabulary of this volume was probably suitable for children, but it did not detract from my enjoyment as an adult reader.
He blends history and myth to make both clearer for the reader.I have always found the Ancient Egyptians to be fascinating—this volume merely reinforced my obsession.
And give it the name "The Chronicles of Narnia." ...Dang it, sounds like a member to me.I've taught Ancient Egypt to middle school students for years now - along with Ancient Mesopotamia, The Ancient Indus, Ancient China...
I'm just saying I found it interesting, and I'd also be interested in reading the direct translations.Ok, here's one more from the story, "The Taking of Joppa." The Egyptians are up in Palestine, trying to get Joppa and the governor says, "I swear to Jahwah, my god, that you shall be second only to myself in this new kingdom which we shall carve out of...
If you're deeply interested in Ancient Egypt stories, mythology etc you'll find this book very interesting and informative. Except the last chapter it is quite interesting; it refers papyruses, drawings and scriptions, and that makes the impression book gives more like a documentary then a usual story books. Language is OK, but in my opinion you need to have a map of Egypt in your mind while reading the book. I was trying to match the story with the location, told in the final chapters. Knowing(or believing)that these stories were actually lived,.. I liked that feeling.
আমার পড়া সবচেয়ে অদভুত মিথ হচছে জাপানিজ মিথ, এরপরেই ইজিপশিয়ান । রজার লযানসেলিন গরিনের এই বইটিতে যে শুধু দেবদেবীদের দেখা মিলবে তা নয়, পরাচীণ মিশরের অনেক কেচছা-কাহিনীও জানা যাবে । অনুবাদকদবয়ের কাজ পরশংসনীয়, ঝরঝরে । :)
আমার পড়া সবচেয়ে অদ্ভুত মিথ হচ্ছে জাপানিজ মিথ, এরপরেই ইজিপশিয়ান । রজার ল্যান্সেলিন গ্রিনের এই বইটিতে যে শুধু দেবদেবীদের দেখা মিলবে তা নয়, প্রাচীণ মিশরের অনেক কেচ্ছা-কাহিনীও জানা যাবে । অনুবাদকদ্বয়ের কাজ প্রশংসনীয়, ঝরঝরে । :)

These stories were interesting but pretty hard to read and remember everything for the age level it was required for. Pretty tedious reading. I read most of them out loud with my son as it was pretty difficult reading level.Learned a lot and it was interesting.
/ for school.
For the beginning reader of Ancient Egyptian lore this is a wonderful starter book that dives into some of the most common stories that can be found in the land of pyramids, desert and exotic gods.
What disappointed me the most is the fact that there are actually more lore from Ancient Egypt then what was provided for but I guess for the sake of simplifying everything the author chose to stick with the Osirian cycle of deities.
At the same time there were a few other stories that I hadn't heard of and I don't know if I would have included them just since of the controversial side of their actual origins.
The way Roger Lancelyn Green has penned down these stories makes them read like fairytales, cautionary tales about the value of honor, friendship and loyalty.
The mix of tales about creation, adventures from civilian and military Egyptians and the magical encounters various Pharaohs had with their gods makes for a varied read, with each story being significantly different from the previous one.
For the rest, though, it can simply be read as a collection of wonderful short stories and fairytales who at once feel familiar and yet brand new.
El "Dioses y héroes de la Antigua Grecia" de la mitología egipcia. Cuentos orientados a un público infantil, con algo de historia y mitología; no demasiado interesante para profundizar en la cultura egipcia.
its a good book having many entertaining stories and gives you a glimpse about pharaohs, how they lived and what they believed in
As I am a great fan of mythologies and just learned about ancient river valleys, including the Nile River Valley, I thought it appropriate to read this book now.
I have read other books by Roger Lancelyn Green and enjoyed them, especially King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table and The Adventures of Robin Hood.
I appreciated that Mr. Green added an introduction and talked about some of the history behind these tales (and I could recognize this history as I just studied ancient river valleys, including the Nile River Valley, in history class).
Read the full review on my blog, Final Frontier Books!3.5/5 starsSo, why should you read this book?If you're fascinated by any form of mythology, this is a great introduction to the lesser-known Egyptian mythology that I would definitely recommend!My opinionI'm going to put this out there: I love mythology.
, a story that I've already read in many forms and adaptations.
It is by no means a complete or even authoritative account of Egyptian mythology, but introduction to it.
The stories are narrated in such a manner that one feels transported to the world of the Ancient Egyptians, where gods and men lived side by side.
What was particularly fascinating to me was the tale about Helen of Troy.
What is known the world over as an ancient Greek adventure purportedly had an Egyptian dimension to it, if the story is to be believed.
From the perspective of a history student, this book was highly entertaining and informative as it helped throw light on the mentality of an ancient civilization while at the same time honouring the shroud of exotica that surrounds it.
I picked this up for a dollar at one of my favorite used bookstores because I loved Ancient Egyptian stuff as a kid.
I'm glad I picked up this book - it's a quick read, the stories are fun (and many were new to me!), it's got a few charming illustrations, and I really loved seeing how the later stories incorporate the Greek gods (The Story of the Greek Princess is about Helen of Sparta and has a lot of, "Zeus, King of the Gods, whom you call Amen-Ra" going on it it).
Very informative and helpful prologue, and the stories are well organized with the helpful timeline in the back of the book. I liked the selection of ancient stories, as well.But The stories themselves are incredibly dull compared to Green’s other retellings. This may be due to the source material being so much older and very different from those other retellings, but regardless, I didn't enjoy reading them.
This constitutes one of several companion volumes, but in particular for 'Tales Of The Greek Heroes'. It's about as good, and again constitutes an engaging introduction to Ancient Egyptian mythology. As an adult I can see strong connections between this and the Old Testament in some places, which is also very interesting. It's not quite as absorbing as 'Tales Of The Greek Myths' but it is more absorbent! Don't ask.
Interesting read but not the usual anthology. If you expect great adventures and plotlines like that in the movie 'The Mummy' (Which I did expect), do not go for this book.Although, if you want to get a quick insight into why Egypt and its myths are such effectively amusing basis to build up the majority of films and novels upon, then certainly this is the book for you.
The myths are related in here in a child-tale fashion like. The best example is the myth of Seth and Laurie which leaves aside certain details. It is a work for young students, perhaps of early grades and that is fine but the title of the book should make it clear. That said is well-written and offers a good overlook on Egyptian mythology. I'd say it is a good place where to start.
Egyptian mythology is not as fascinating as Greek, and many would agree with that. However, Egyptian mythology is surreal and fascinating and is the sort of thing that any mythology lover should read. Green's version of the stories does a good job making the material easy for average readers to understand, in spite of the bizarre nature of spirits and magic.
A really great retelling, but a couple of the stories did feel a little long. The tales about the gods were amazing and there was also an Egyptian version of the tale of the Fall of Troy and Cinderella, which was really cool!
3.5 -> 3Well written, enjoyable collection. It's very easy to recognize the period legend or myths come from. From Hatshepsut's propaganda to nods to Illiad, everyone will find something for themselves.
This is a cool, easy to follow portrayal of ancient Egypt. It begins with the gods, and then has stories of magic and adventure. The book is not too long or super complicated, nor is it too easy to read (which is the case of some children’s books I’ve found on the subject.)
Interesting read. Probably good for people beginning to get into Egyptian mythology and folklore. My only complaint is that I was hoping for more mythology and less folklore. But the stories are good reads regardless.
Just finished reading this book,It delivers less than I expected, therefore I will give this book a 3 star. The ancient stories are fascinating but the writing by the author is of poor quality and unclear.
Highly entertaining!Get ready for some great adventure and romance that bring ancient Egypt to life! I thoroughly enjoyed all of these stories that combine Egyptian mythology with folklore and superb story telling.
Amazing! I love the story of egipcians and all related to it. I absolutely loved it.
IntetestingBrilliant, deep and thought provoking. No wonder they call them the classics. Especially the book of Thoth. And the girl with red shoes.
A great source of Egyptian Mythology. I was able to share many stories and information on Egyptian Gods /Goddesses with a fourth grade classroom.
<3 <3 A book I read in childhood that I remember as being full of magic that I'm now rediscovering. Such an important perspective on the ancient cultures.
