https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/959843.The_Zeppelin_s_Passenger
Philippa is married to Sir Henry, who has been spending what she thinks is a shameful amount of time fishing since the war began two years before.
'Shirker' would be the word we would use today, I think.The point is, Sir Henry has gone ga-ga over sport fishing and leaves for days and weeks at a time to follow this or that type of fish.
And what ever happens with her brother?Philippa is a bit of an airhead, with an obsessive fixation on Sir Henry's apparent lack of patriotism.
A woman who holds the entire town and her husband to a high standard of patriotism, yet is so hurt by her beloved husband's refusal to even consider her point of view that she is willing to become a friend to a cunning enemy, simply out of spite?
A man who pretends to care nothing for war, and yet is using a hobby to gravely cripple the enemy?
Several times I spotted nods to the Scarlet Pimpernel in the handling of the spy parts, though each character isn't cut-and-dry "good or bad" as in Orczy's Classic, and sometimes the lines are shaded so close together that you're left wondering whether to admire or feel disgust.
3.5 stars. Highly enjoyable melodrama about espionage and romance during WWI. Plenty of propaganda and obvious plotting, but fun just the same. Cue the dramatic music, put a wrist to your forehead, and enjoy!
First of all: I finished my A to Z challenge! WOOHOO! :-))Second: This was a very entertaining book. Loved it!
A World War I tale of German espionage in a fictional english village called Dreymarsh. Some residents there discover a zepplin observation car and this discovery triggers a range of events and introduces a myriad of characters which all make for a rather delightful mystery...
Aaarghh! I'm on a bad streak. Ludicrous plot. Brainless heroine. Oppenheim at his worst. Don't bother with this one.
3.5/4 out of 5
An early espionage novel with a strong hint of romance, The Zeppelin's Passenger was a book I bought on a whim knowing very little about it and, therefore, having little idea what to expect.
E. Phillips Oppenheim pulls together a very effective story in which a foreign agent arrives in a quiet coastal haven in Britain during WW1.
On the whole the characterisation is strong and believable, and the love dilemma facing the main protagonists is convincingly portrayed.
Oppenheim wastes barely a word - he has a wondefully readable and economical style.
Very pleasant entertainment, like his other books. Oppenheim was popular between the wars but is by now largely forgotten. A pity. Especially considering he produced over 100 novels and 37 volumes of short stories.
Disappointed because the evil German zeppelin never actually appeared in the book, however, the rather inattentive lady the eponymous passenger “makes love to” has massive red-gold hair, an Oppenheim trademark.“People who travel in Zeppelins don’t wear things like that.”
This is the story of a woman who desires to be loved. The war and it's trials affect how her husband is able to love her. It's an interesting look at life during the war, our flights of fancy, and enduring loyalty. I listened to the book on Audible/Libravox.
This WWI-set story is quick, compactly told, and features a few twists to keep the reader guessing to the end. The ebook formatting is pretty good, with a few typos resulting from the OCR, but nothing too distracting.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/1931/1...
1 star from Esther
First world war spy story in which allegiances of various kinds are tested.
