https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5294.Oscar_Wilde
From Wilde’s unhumble beginnings as the son of two reputable writers, to his college days in the thrall of Ruskin and Pater, to his flowerings as a poet and spokesman for aestheticism, Ellmann presents the working Wilde, a complex contrarian and sneak-tongued snark, as he slowly becomes Wilde the Myth and Wilde the Wit. Parodied and pilloried since he first dared to lecture in knee-breeches, Wilde was always swatting enemies away and poking their hypocrarses, and as his career picked up traction, the vultures suppurated on the sidelines until the blood-axe dropped on the sweaty mattress of boneheaded bastard Bosie.
This fabulously exhaustive and definitive bio has the last word on Wilde, and since no one is ever likely to top it, is essential reading for all Oscarites.
Worse: so much already written, including Wilde's own glittering one-liners - what could anyone presume to add to already crowded record?But Ellmann, who worked for almost twenty years on this book, doesn't fail to deliver.
In what will clearly be the definitive biography, he lays out details of Wilde's life, illuminates the work, and cuts through the brilliant and brittle public persona to show us Wilde's soul.
Here goes:"Ellmann's magisterial work, destined to be the definitive biography of Wilde, is a brilliant, breathtaking tour de force."
Ellmann is certainly correct in asserting that he was “indifferent to all life that was not social life.” Despite this biography’s being detailed, even exhaustive, and Ellmann certainly writes well, there is something about Wilde that remains elusive, a core “why” that remains unanswered and probably unanswerable.
Throughout much of his life Wilde seems to have been aware that the result of his behavior would be tragic, that one could not live the life he chose to live without suffering painful consequences.
Today we can enjoy the results of his amazing and exuberant creativity, remembering him as a man complex, paradoxical, and tragic.
Better Book Title: "Dude, you really need to break up with that asshole."I've been an Oscar Wilde fan for many decades now, but I was always afraid to read this because it's THE DEFINITIVE BIG GIANT SCARY BIOGRAPHY on him.
I feel like I understand Oscar Wilde much more, and also how creepy the Victorian period was.
The last few chapters are painfully sad, and convey just what life in the worse case scenario could possibly be, except in Paris?This is a textbook example of "Dude, you should really break up with that asshole" because his boyfriend was a straight up awful person.
If you love Oscar Wilde and want to escape reality, you should read this.
Wilde at his wildest and mildestAfter reading this book, I cannot help but review Oscar Wilde, the man and his life, as if it were a work of art in itself, as much as I can this biography of Wilde as depicted by Richard Ellmann.
Wilde could probably have saved himself from prison by following the advice of his long-suffering but tolerant wife Constance and his loyal friend Robbie Ross and living in exile in another country.
Ellmann repeatedly refers to Wilde as a kind and considerate man and in many respects this is true.
I lost the books (their dedications), shoes (the tipped ones, the ones you lace right up to your britches), and the shape of my wife’s mouth when she said it, when she called my name, even that, even when I didn’t come.And because I am not Oscar Wilde, because someone’s body is thinning in the dirt, I can still say this.
That boys young enough to climb stairs climbed the stairs of his suite?) that Oscar Wilde bled from the eyes and mouth right before—And I wonder (justly) if something might have exploded there, in his head, maybe something in the ear, something eating straight through.
A pretty good bio on Wilde. I don't know an insane amount on Wilde's personal life, so I can't state how accurate it is in regards to timeline, but I am going to assume that it is pretty accurate considering his substantial research. WAS LONG BUT LIKE WHAT BIO ISNT.
This book is a haunting and beautiful biography of the don of the Aesthetic Movement. It traces his life from his early days as the son of a prominent physician father and an eccentric socialite mother (Sperenza) to his competition with Bram Stoker for the hand of Frances Balcombe, to his early homosexual experiments and final death amod disgrace and anonymity in the exile of France.Richard Ellmann wields his pen with alacrity, grace, and an intense sympathy for his subject that may leave you in tears. A work of astonishing beauty
this is one of my dearest treasures for the year 2008.what i have is actually a hardcover, picked at my 'used books' store for the price of my normal dinner at my favourite 'fast foods'. i couldnt believe it!!it's a great story about a great person. here is the most important thing about it: it is written with a subjective, condemning tone. and i felt the author should have surpassed the shadows of his subject's sexuality and other personality weaknesses, to simply objectively tell us the story!!!
Now, beyond the reach of scandal, his best writings validated by time, he comes before us still, a towering figure, laughing and weeping, with parables and paradoxes, so generous, so amusing, and so right.Oggi non troveremmo niente di sbagliato nel pretendere che la società ci accetti per come siamo e si vergogni della propria ipocrisia, e anche Wilde era di questo avviso.He asked it to tolerate aberrations from the norm, such as homosexuality, to give up its hypocrisy both by recognizing social facts and by acknowledging that its principles were based upon hatred rather than love, leading to privation of personality as of art.Ma la società vittoriana inglese non aveva nessuna intenzione di cedere alla richiesta di Wilde, e sappiamo come è andata a finire.
The sheer competency of this treatment of Oscar Wilde's brilliant, sad and troubled life means that we may never get the kind of definitive work I'd like.Ellmann, writing to midcentury literary tastes, treats Wilde's sexuality too obliquely for young audiences today, and readers will be left confused about this central aspect of Wilde's life--central, I mean, because it was the aspect solely responsible for his downfall.
That girl was Natalie Barney, the great 20th century lesbian seducer, who was to make her life in Paris and write volumes of epigrams that stand up to many of Wilde's wittiest and most biting.
I finally finished it and although it took me a year to read it, I finally did it.
Now, this comment is representative of the fact that it is slow-going, but that mustn't deter any future readers and fans of Oscar Wilde.
Wilde lived a life of tremendous fame and he was a phenomenon before he had produced anything significant.
Wilde, the film, has brought out the generosity of his spirit but failed to do justice to his intellect.
Wilde lived by his principles, and although he could've avoided the lawsuit which was his ruin, he didn't.
A life well written, this, and a must read for Wilde fans.
Honestly this book was mostly just "ok" for me, but I'm giving it a slightly higher rating because I think Ellman deserves it. I picked this up thinking it was going to be filled with super tawdry details of Wilde's life, but mostly it was literary criticism paralleled by events that occurred during the writing of each of his works. So it was okay. I wish it would have been a little more Wilde and a little less Wilde's contribution to literature.
An exhaustive biography; reading it exhausted me.
I read it and I thought it was the best biography of all time. It helps that I love Wilde I guess.
It being the 1990s and despite 100 years on from Wildes time homosexuality was still taboo and teachers were forbidden by clause 28 of some Thatcherite law to discuss anything promoting an LGBT lifestyle or identity with their students.
It was illegal to acknowledge alternative lifestyle and gay people in English schools in the 90s.Picking this biography back up again in 2018 as a divorced father in his late 30s my rose tinted spectacular view of Wilde is now one of empathy, remorse and sympathy.
It sheds great light on the oppression of western society upon its people during the late Victorian age.
A man can be happy with any woman as long as he does not love her.
The fact that not a few of his close friends had become estranged some time before Wilde's incarceration (barring Whistler who was somewhat crazed himself) would suggest one of two things - either Wilde alienated his intimates through his behaviour/shallowness or even in the early days he gravitated to people who were shallow and ungrateful themselves.A sad end and a sad ending, a waste and a tragedy.Now seems a good time to go back and re-read the plays and stories to see if I can actually see the apparent underlying messages...
Richard Ellman's fascinating biography follows Wilde from his beginnings as a brilliant student to his tragic end, when he haunted European locales that had delighted him in better times like a living ghost.
Ellman's analysis of Wilde's aestheticism is, I suppose, essential to a complete understanding of the man, but since the matters that Wilde devoted so much of his energy to were so frivolous and trivial, it doesn't make for a very good read.
Later, though, Wilde demonstrates his talent with the publication of "The Picture of Dorian Gray" and his successful plays, and the biography picks up as well.
Lately it seems I'm never happy with the length and level of detail of biographies.
I was curious about Wilde, but not to the degree that I wanted to read the letters he wrote his mother.
I didn't know much about Wilde.
I hadn't read any of his poems and wasn't familiar with his plays and his other work.
The book interested me enough to seek out a few of his plays.My main take-away from the book is that love isn't just blind, it's stupid as well.
Wilde was arguably a genius, but he allowed his love to destroy him utterly.
A wonderful biography of Wilde's life and everything that was happening to him while he wrote his many great works, like The Picture of Dorian Gray and The Importance of Being Earnest, as well as his short stories, like my favorite, The Happy Prince.
I knew some facts surrounding his arrest and imprisonment before reading this but didn't know a lot, like how it started with his libel suit against his lover's father, the Marquess of Queensberry, so that was of particular interest, as was Wilde's trip to the United States.
His life was both charmed and tragic, and the book captures all of it.
HIGHLY recommend!
The unreadable in pursuit of the dislikeable.Turgid prose that doesn't know when to stop, at times awkward construction, and far too little about the effect this ghastly man had on his wife and children. One has to feel sorry for OW but if ever a man was author of his own downfall, he was the man. I know things now about the late nineteenth century that I wish I didn't. In fact, I wish I hadn't read this book at all.
No doubt that Oscar Wilde was a tortured genius, but he was also a narcissist and egotist, and in the end that may have contributed to his spectacular downfall. Well, that and Lord Alfred Douglas. This book is sympathetic to Wilde without pandering or making him to be grossly misunderstood. Worthwhile.
I added this book to my 'To Read' list in 2009 and still haven't gotten to it. It won the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography and is about the man I most love to quote.Guess I'd better get on with it.
Beautiful and devastating. Has given me such a deeper and fiercer appreciation of Oscar, his work, his philosophy, his relationships, and all the infuriating injustices he endured. AVENGE OSCAR WILDE.
A rather odd inscription on the title page:"9/19/94To Bill, This is thePulitzer Prizewinning bookon which Robertworked.With warmestbest wishesSheila & BillEllmann"A Robert Ellmann is noted on the acknowledgement page. Is anyone familiar with the Ellmann family?
A meticulously researched book, a true lover of Wilde. A hard read at times because it seems that you must be very familiar with Wilde's work, even more obscure pieces, and his contemporaries. But he writes about the tragedy of Wilde's unjust imprisonment with great sensitivity.
Quite good.
Great biography, but I had to make an effort to keep going.To my way of reading, is a bit too academic, too much info which at times made me feel lost, but beautiful account of Wilde's life.
I was not disappointed, however, as the book is jam packed full of quotes, anecdotes and encounters which truly brought to life the iconic character of Wilde.
I was almost disappointed to reach the end, as by the time I read of his end, it was like I had lost an old friend, or at least a character I would love to hate being charmed by.
His is truly a story of our time.
If you have more than a passing interest in Wilde, detailed biography or Victorian society, and have the time to commit to this book, I would recommend it.
