https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113730.Arms_and_Influence
Violence and power have been the means ways to make enemies on war accede to one's own will, but now nuclear weapons have made it immediately possible to destroy the enemy's civilian and governmental structures in a matter of minutes.To 'deter' an opponent's action is to cede initiative to the opposition, it is a passive goal.
It can indicate a lessening of direct opposition, as in the case of nuclear disarmament.
I cite a more recent example - when Nixon pushed for a ban on the usage of offensive biological weapons by the United States in 1969, the Soviets ramped up their production in the secret Biopreparat immediately after.
Every act of violence becomes part of a risk calculation that could potentially lead to general nuclear war.Credibility becomes important as a means to coerce.
Brinkmanship becomes the game of risk manipulation, compelling the opponent to comply by balancing between offensive and defensive maneuvers.
Nevertheless, Schelling provides a template that we have seen in Sun Tzu, Fuller, and even Boyd – ultimately, the target is the mind of the enemy, and every offensive and defensive action (or inaction) affects our ability to manipulate the international political environment in our favor.
Though the writing is oddly paced and strangely redundant (even within sentences), the discussion of how violence can be used as a means of coercion -- assuming clear communication, the deliberate assurance of options for concessions, an effective balance of capabilities, and so forth -- is hugely useful for thinking about force and influence. This is true not only for the Cold War, when Schelling wrote this, and not only in the context of nuclear weapons, which overshadows the book, but more generally.
This book gets better every time I read it.
Originally written during the Cold War, Arms and Influence addresses the issue of how countries use military power to bargain.
Schelling also notes that nuclear weapons greatly change the playing field, though not simply due to their destructive power.
Instead, they have the capacity to invert the traditional order, in which a country is first defeated militarily and then suffers heavy losses to their people.
In addition, nuclear weapons have only destructive power and no capacity to Unfortunately, the book is dryly written and not particularly fun to read.
What it has to say about deterrence and the nature of war is very profound. However, how it makes its case is like listening to a rambling old man talk about what life was like when he was a kid. I recommend this as a skim and not reading to comprehend.
A Cold War classic that is relevant today. If you want to understand the relationship between the United States, Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, this is a great book to read.
The author is a Nobel Prize winner for his contributions to game-theory analysis and this book is considered to be one of the classics on nuclear strategy.
Indeed, many of the thoughts that Mr. Schelling has apply just as much to conventional war as to nuclear war as deterrence, compellence, and just the threat of violence can be used to achieve national goals.
Still, this is a genuinely thought provoking book that, in spite of the end of the Cold War, has not lost its relevancy and, indeed, will not until nuclear weapons are abolished or they are used once again in war.
One of my strategy profs calls him one of the most important strategic thinkers since Clausewitz and his logic "unimpeachable." Although dated in terms of technology and weapons, Schelling's analysis stands the test of time.
Schelling's description of the role and purposes of nuclear weapons informs even discussions of conventional strategy and the conduct of crisis management in current affairs.
Since the publication of his seminal work, they have taken to calling all military forces, and not just nuclear weapons, as another tool to conduct "armed diplomacy." In this distorted view, military forces, even warfare itself, exist only to send signals to the antagonist.
I didn't really finish this; I just wanted to put it off my currently reading list.That being said, I think there's a lot to recommend Schelling's thinking, such as the "threat that leaves something to chance" as a credible nuclear deterrent.
He also shows an amazing command of history when motivating one argument or another, e.g. Pericles' injunction to the Athenians to ruin their own property as a costly signalling of endurance to the Spartans.Later scholarship, such as Perfect Deterrence claims superior explanation of the deterrence phenomenon (or failure thereof) but God only knows how contemporary such situations, like that in water-starved South Asia, will pan out.
The time we live in is unlike any other.
We'll just have to see it in real time.
Schelling characterizes conflict as a bargaining process and suggests that the threat of military force can be a diplomatic tool in that process. He distinguishes this “use” of military force as coercion from the more traditional one of brute force. He outlines the requirements of successful coercion, as well as coercion’s strengths and weaknesses relative to brute force. Having established the distinction between brute force and coercion, Schelling goes on to lay out the two types of coercion and covers the differences between deterrence and compellence. This book makes an interesting adjunct to Clausewitz.
The focus of the book is put straightforwardly: "To be coercive, violence has to be anticipated.
And it has to be avoidable by accommodation.
The power to hurt is bargaining power.
To exploit it is diplomacy--vicious diplomacy, but diplomacy." This book was first published in 1966 and it is a realpolitik examination of the use of coercive power in diplomacy.
Important issues addressed include the centrality of making clear one's commitments, manipulating risk, the use of military action in bargaining.
.A classic from the 1960s that can make for uncomfortable reading but which illustrates the hardball conceptualization of what we might term coercive diplomacy.
I think this is a great theoretical work with very good insights and clearly evincing serious thinking about strategic influence. I normally like more heavily-cited works, but a book about power and influence in the nuclear age is likely to be primarily theory. He does a good job of using examples of points that would be applicable in the nuclear setting while recognizing important differences. Ultimately, I enjoyed the discussion of how to think about domestic policy and possibly influence foreign policy the most.
I had to read this for school, and while it is 50 years old and written at the height of nuclear-armed bipolar Great Power rivalries, it still has much to say about how a force-based diplomacy, which on some level any successful diplomacy must be based upon, can be achieved. Not a breezy read, but it's Tom Schelling, so you get what you expect. He won a Nobel for using game theory in economics and state competition so it's not as if this is high school level reading.
I never thought the logic of nuclear deterrence could be so fascinating. Schelling was supposedly a consultant on Dr. Strangelove, which makes a lot of sense.Update: Goodreads apparently classifies this as a "lifestyle" book. I suppose it could be if you're the leader of a cold war nuclear power with time on your hands.
One of the best accounts of Deterrence Theory and the strategic, tactical, and societal implications of nuclear warfare. Definitely a must read for anyone interested in modern international politics. Schelling is a master of explaining, through historical context and easy to read language, the way in which states seek to deter and coerce other states. Remains one of the best of all time.
5/10. Read for class. Informative, interesting, easy to understand, and definitely must-read for those interested in political-science and security studies. However, not a super entertaining book if you're not into the subject matter. Author gets very very repetitive, which is a good thing for students but could get tedious.
In this book, Schelling discusses nuclear missiles as normal weapons that just work faster in the act of destruction than traditional weapons. He views war itself as an act of bargaining, in which actors convey information to each other through action.
A seminal work on game theory.
takes a certain number of stones to write this book
Its great
Read during Professor Elias's International Security class, Freshman Spring.
The essential book about nuclear deterrence and arms as politics. Which is to say, I obvs fell asleep while reading it. But it was still good.
Why do the most important political theory books have the worst writing? Repetitive. Dense. But oh-so-essential to the study of international politics.
