https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1075761.Biggles_The_Camels_Are_Coming
Biggles all of a sudden is a swearing, hard-core fellow with no emotions.
Technically, W.E. Johns wrote this book first of any other Biggles stories (it is the third one that I've read).
So I've imagined a scenario for why his first book is different than his others: Everyone disliked Biggles because he swore too much.
Why would they let their kids read such a book?
So other than the swearing, why didn't I like it?
Something must have changed in the authors mind in how he wanted to represent Biggles.
So, I'm not saying goodbye to him yet, but I do not recommend this book.
Such a great book. It allows a little bit of insight into the mind of WWI pilots and I really enjoyed it. It had all the great aspects of good story telling and the forward by Captain W.E Johns is insightful and a treat as well. Highly recommend this book if you can find a copy
The chapters are short and fast-paced, with plenty of action and the occasional touch of humour, and on the whole I found it to be a very enjoyable read.I missed out on reading Biggles’s adventures as a child, and I am now closer to forty than fourteen, but I did not find that this lessened my enjoyment.
From what I understand, Biggles’s adventures are drawn largely from Johns’s own experiences, and for readers looking for an introduction to First World War aviation this is a good place to start.
I hated the first couple of pages; I didn't get what was happening in the story.
Then I decided to back up and just read it and go with it, not trying to figure out every little anachronistic aviation term.
I got it.
I flew with these very, very young pilots in World War I.
It is a ride.
A real ride in the air and a ride through time.
It's full of all the things that the book police would hate today: shooting, killing others with a sense of triumph, hatred for other peoples.
But, nevertheless, a fabulous adventure book.
The first Biggles book I've read and not as juvenile as I was expecting. This is a collection of short stories about young 1st World War aviators. While there is a good deal of rip-roaring adventure, it also confronts the fear, the danger and the frequent death that were the everyday experience of those young man. A surprisingly enjoyable read.
This is a pretty interesting book to read. My grandfather drove an ammunition truck during World War One in France where most of this book takes place. I found the description of the airplanes very interesting, and looked up and got photo's of each of the one's mentioned. I may read more of the series, as it was worth while from a plot, as well as a historical view.
I started reading this as a complete Biggles novice and ended up as a fan.
He was a champion aviator who started life in THE CAMELS ARE COMING, a selection of connected short stories that sees him flying a Sopwith Camel and battling the Boche during the First World War. The stories are short, snappy, and filled with aerial combat scenes which are described evocatively.
Biggles gets a real satisfaction from outwitting and out-flying the enemy and that transfers to the reader; at the same time he's a real gentleman who respects his foe.
There were a number of flaws in the some of the chapters, but the book was entertaining and appeared to give a good insight into the life and dangers of being a pilot in that era.The book covers the last two or so years of the War, so it's strange there was no mention of the amalgamation of the RFC and RNAS into the RAF on 1 April 1918.
Another anomaly, and one I picked up in my review of the book "Marked for Death": no mention of non-commissioned (NCO) pilots in the RFC/RAF.
The first Biggles stories, 17 of them, originally published in some magazine. This Biggles is a lot more emotional, angry, not in control, than later Biggles. Maybe you could say more immature.The author mentions that Biggles could never have existed but that he represents the emotions and spirit of RFC (Royal Flying Corps), the predecessor of RAF. The stories are of course dated, but still reasonably entertaining.
My first sortie with Biggles. It reads more like a collection of short stories. An intriguing look back at WWI at this time. http://astrongbeliefinwicker.blogspot...
The further adventures of Biggles and his Sopwith Camel squadron on the western front. Another selection of connected short stories rather than a full novel but non the worse for it. Great boy's own stuff.
This book is about a British flight commander in World War One.qwertyui
Red Fox edition has Bilggles: Pioneer Air Fighter attached to it.
This is the classic Biggles, full of authentic WW1 air combat, cynical, realistic and with a hero who smokes, curses and drinks half a bottle of whisky before daylight. Children's stories?
Great read on the antics of a very young pilot in WW1. Gets across the characters and their attitudes, the machinery, the fighting had the loss of life. Worth reading even today.
