https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36595101-fire-and-fury
There's very little here that people don't already know about Trump, Bannon, Kushner and Russia.I guess maybe I can see the value in putting together an overview of the Trump campaign and presidency, but unfortunately this book is also poorly-written, contains no references, and reads a little bit like, um, fake news.
Characteristic of our times - and this presidency in particular - the book feels gossipy, based around emotions and talking the loudest, instead of being convincing and analytical, backed up by solid references that we can factcheck.I am critical of Trump because, among many other things, he constantly says and tweets baseless accusations and theories that are meant to incite a passionate response.
This book was hilarious and terrifying and confirmed pretty much everything most of us have suspected about the incompetence of the Trump administration. If even half of this book is true, well, this presidency is a disaster. The strangest part of this book is Wolf’s unabashed affection for Steve Bannon. Like, dude, get a room. Also this book is sloppy and needs to be edited.
I never planned on reading this. But now that Donald Trump is trying to prevent its release, it's now the highest priority on my reading list.
MUELLER IS COMING!  Da-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-da-dah-ta da-daDaaaa da dadada dah da-dudaaaahDaaaa da dadada dah dududaaaah Michael Wolff has given us a drone’s (dragon’s?) eye view of the competing centers vying to be the power behind the throne, with some looking, in the longer term, at carving paths for their own succession to the highest position in the realm. There is a mad king who needs to be handled. Centers of power arise, mor
Michael Wolff - image from Mediaite.comThe bottom line of Fire and Fury is that it presents Donald Trump as unfit to serve as president, based not on the dark view and negative press of his opposition, but the been-there-OMG-did-you-see-that experience of his own staff and supporters.
Swamp Thing as Joffrey Baratheon- image from DesignCrowd.com, by way of Huff-PoThe forward motion of the story is the events of Trump’s campaign, but mostly presidency up to October, 2017.
But at the end of the day does it really matter which quotes are real or who leaked what when it comes to sort of a "National Enquirer" type of bestseller?
Let's just hope America wakes up by the next election before Trump turns our country into a "shithole nation." : (INITIAL THOUGHTS:Today our Führer is attempting to prevent this book’s release.
People quoted in the book are also coming forth denying they said some of the things attributed to them.
OF COURSE Trump didn’t think he would win the G.D. election.
Donald Trump has loudly complained that he would be able to sue the author of Fire and Fury, were it not for the fact that US libel law is so weak.
For example, with respect to "injurious to another in their trade, business, or profession", the book has already been cited by governments unfriendly to the US, e.g. North Korea and Iran, as proof that Trump is mentally incompetent.Another interesting piece of evidence, as pointed out by the publisher's attorney, is that Trump's cease-and-desist letter failed to identify any factually false or defamatory statements.
If it is to be believed, the day-to-day functioning of Trump’s White House appears to be simultaneously worse than we all imagined, and exactly as we all thought it probably was: Trump’s an idiot, the least self-aware person alive, interested only in his own celebrity and validation, and wholly unqualified to be the President of anything.
8) Trying to reign Trump in.
It’s the blind leading the blind leading us all off a cliff.P.S. Pence is mostly absent from the book, which makes it seem like he’s just sitting on the sidelines, twirling his thumbs, waiting for the moment he can step in and become President.
I do my best to make sure he doesn’t hear anything negative about himself.”Wolff: “So you’re a feminist.”Hope: “What?”Wolff: “Nevermind.”Trump: “This is president Steve Bannon.”“Hey there Michael, believe it or not I’m the White House Chief of Staff…..
But the best thing about the book is that it's making Trump pooh his pants.A couple of fun facts that I learned was the *president yells at the cleaning staff (and everyone for everything all the time) for picking up clothing that he left on the floor, stating that ‘if the shirt is on the floor it’s because that’s where he wants it.’He prefers fast food because he has a phobia of being poisoned.
And you need a son of a bitch who knows Washington,” Ailes told Trump not long after the election.
“You’ll want to be your own son of a bitch, but you don’t know Washington.” Ailes had a suggestion: “Speaker Boehner.” (John Boehner had been the Speaker of the House until he was forced out in a Tea Party putsch in 2011.) “Who’s that?” asked Trump.""Scarborough and Brzezinski said it was all still complicated, and not public, officially, but it was good and everything was getting resolved.“You guys should just get married,” prodded Trump.“I can marry you!
this is what happens when you let a Wolff into your House, silly!
The truth is, these are not very bright guys, and things got out of hand.-All The Presidents' Men (1976)In short: this is an internal history of the Trump Administration, as largely told by the former Chief Strategist, Steve Bannon.
The first months of the administration see a battle between three factions over control of the White House agenda - Reince Priebus, an establishment Republican vs.
But he had some basic competence.The final months of the book describe the White House as being like a chicken running around with its head cut off.
The day Trump was elected President of the USA the world let out a collective gasp, a gasp of absolute horror as the unbelievable actually happened: an unqualified misogynistic climate change denier became one of the most powerful men in the world.
If this was written well, with care, thought and a critical mind-set, it would have wielded far more persuasive power.There’s only one reason this book has become so popular and has sold so many copies: Trump didn’t want us to read it so, naturally, we all wanted to.
What’s in this book that Trump didn’t want us to see?
No I'm not talking about Trump - disturbed is how I felt on finishing this book.
To use an alleged quote by Sean Spicer " You can't make this shit up"Accusations fly in all directions throughout this book, but as to whether any of these accusations can be substantiated, is another matter, though to be fair to the author, Trump appears to be surrounded by incompetent and politically inexperienced people and I include the man himself in that too.
FIVE STARSWhen I heard that Trump tried to stop the release of this book...well, look out!
The only thing I can't stand more than Trump is a flagrantly unconstitutional book ban.
You could say I HAD TO READ THIS BOOK just to spite Trump.
But on the other hand, that makes it easy to pick up and start reading from any chapter.
I don't know how much is true, if the verbatim quotes are accurate and attributed to the correct character.
Ick.If even 15% of this book is true, we are in trouble.
This is actually the same problem – dumb people are almost completely incapable of saying ‘I don’t know’ (the next time you find yourself saying ‘I don’t know’, say it with pride).
So, the twin problem is having to have an opinion on everything and never being able to back down.But Trump is slightly different to this kind of stupidity – he does change his mind, he just doesn’t admit that he has done it.
I’m surprised by how annoyed this has made me.That Trump would set up a friend (or even an enemy) like this just to be able to sleep with their wife is beyond belief.
Lots of fun, except it's not. Reads like a parody, except it's not. *Dies* Wolff is a lively raconteur, to say the least. "Sardonic" is just the beginning for him. Overall this was an enjoyable read, if reading about how low your country can go could ever be considered enjoyable. But hey I'm not a big fan of the world in general, so I will find my pleasures where I can.I pretty much read this like I read fiction because that's the most enjoyable way for me to read nonfiction. Did the story capti
But hey I'm not a big fan of the world in general, so I will find my pleasures where I can.I pretty much read this like I read fiction because that's the most enjoyable way for me to read nonfiction.
The story of how they divided the White House and battled for Trump's attention was like watching a cross between reality tv show Big Brother and some very serious HBO prestige drama about ego-based battles for dominance, delivered with shades of Larry David and um Fellini.
the ongoing question of whether Trump is mentally ill or just an idiot was fun.
Sorta like the whole book!
That makes a review summarising its content rather pointless, unless I have some new and profound insight to share with the world, which I don’t.Nasty Confirmation“I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.”This is a nasty book about nastier people.
The lessons here, regardless of how accurate they are, should be remembered so they are not repeated.Related ReviewsThis was the first Trump book I read and reviewed, as it was one of the early headline-grabbing ones (my review HERE).Then, A Day in the Life of Marlon Bundo as it was refreshingly fun, and with a good, positive message (my review HERE).Next up was The Faith of Donald J.
This book is a pretty good answer to that universal "What the fuck just happened???" question we all asked ourselves in the weeks and months after Trump won the election.
That's because it recounts a LOT of what we already know, with far less deeper insight than I was hoping for.
It reads like fiction.
Like Wolff was somehow a fly on the wall for every important everything that happened on Capitol Hill in 2017.
There is a lot of: "Ivanka walked down the stairs, her phone pressed to her ear, and said, "I know, it's a complete mess.
Wolff is in essence a gossip columnist, obsessed with power and money, delighting in bitchy revelations and amateur—though often devastating—psychological insights, but with no real interest in policy or history, character or tragedy.
His portraits are convincing, he has the air of an insider, but still...is what he tells you something that actually happened?
Or is it what he is convinced should have happened, in the perfection of his gossip dreams?
Coming out four days early thanks to idiot Trump. Ha.3.5
The reason more than 80 percent of New York City dwellers voted against Donald Trump was because we knew him—his history of pathological lying, his grandiose credit-taking for things he had nothing to do with, his cheating almost everybody who worked for him, his serial misogyny and complete lack of scruples.* Mayor Mike Bloomberg said it straight at the Democratic National Convention: “I’m a New Yorker and I know a con when I see one.” For people who liked Trump, his charm had to do with the fact that he was an unapologetic con artist who laughed at his own antics (for an example of the old Trump charm and humor at his own expense, listen to the Howard Stern interview about how he reacted to someone else's trauma).
I’m no Trump fan, but let me offer this bit of optimism: if we have to have a Republican in the White House, he might as well be so dysfunctional that nothing is accomplished.
Imagine how much evil Mike Pence could accomplish with majorities in the House and Senate.
No I’m not happy that my country elected a racist reality tv host, but in the end, I think we’re getting a lot of Obama policy rollover because everyone in this administration is so stupid they don’t know what else to do.
Though there is more in-depth background provided to many of the stories, and more on the power couple, Jared and Ivanka.Am I surprised that no one in the White House really knows what they are doing?
Well I could go on and on but I won't.Do I believe everything I read?
This book, will not change the mind of his supporters, if that was possible he and his family would not now be running our country.
If saying what he did on the campaign trail didn't, this book certainly won't.
Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House by Michael Wolff is like being a fly on the wall in the White House.
Sure, some of this info was on the news but this is more personal.
This gets right in there to the people that work with the Grabber-in-Chief.
What they think of him, how they work together, or not.
The back stabbing, the leaking and by who about who.
What the staff call the main loafer behind his back.
What the orange man does with his time.
The rest was what I always wished, to be a fly on the wall...:)
This book feels like it would be best for anyone who has been watching politics with one eye or not much at all, and wants a refresher on why the white house is in the state it's in.
For those of us who have been watching politics with both eyes horrifyingly open, the effect is more of a consolidation of the travails thus far.
Overall, Wolff's book has an easy to read, conversational style that makes it worth looking at for diehards and neophytes alike.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThis book was everywhere. Comedians were talking about it. Politicians were talking about it. Magazines and newspapers were talking about it. Trump was talking about it. Even the Grammys got in on it, with Hillary Clinton making a special cameo, during which she read excerpts from the book. It was supposed to be game-changing. Scandalous. Dishy. Controversial. It was making ~waves~. Hell, I even got unfriended by several people after postin
It was that #edgy.Naturally, everyone wanted a piece of that sweet, sweet edge.I'm a bit late to the game, since I got my copy from the library (curse you, waiting list), but I did eyeball some of my friends' status updates as they read the book, and their lack of "OH MY GOD, NO WAY!" was a tip-off that this book probably wasn't going to be the ##BIGSCANDAL it was being hyped up to be.
But it means that the book is riddled with typos like this (although maybe not quite so unfortunate): Bannon was making his first official pubic [sic] appearance of the Trump presidency (130).
Out, out, brief candle!Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor playerThat struts and frets his hour upon the stageAnd then is heard no more: it is a taleTold by an idiot, full of sound and fury,Signifying nothing." - Shakespeare, Macbeth, Act V, 5Presidential books are tricky things.
Bannon likes to reference Shakespeare (often when talking about Jared and Ivanka), and how things are not going to end well with the Trump administration.
At the end of the Book, Wolff quoted Bannon that "it all threatened to make Shakespeare loo like Dr. Suess".
That Shakespeare play ended with canibalism.
An ok read but I feel this is a book that has been hugely hyped by the media and certainly not the explosive read it has been labelled.
This book has been described as an explosive and shocking  insight into life within the White House since Donald Trump became Presisent of the United States.
Having said that its not a fun time in America and my sympathies lie with so many Americans who didn't sign up for this.I think this is a book if you really want to read then don't waste your hard earned money on it, support your library and borrow it or perhaps the best advice would be to avoid it altogether.
If you have already read my preliminary review, please don’t miss reading the update following the initial text.This book has been criticized for being sloppily written and consisting mainly of unproven rumors.
UPDATE April 29, 2018:While reading this book, I kept thinking: ‘The idiocy and lunacy of this President and the nasty battles between the different alliance groups in the White House can’t get any worse.’ only to find out on the next pages that they did get worse.Re our President’s ethics and morals, you’ll find nothing more telling than the following excerpt:“Trump liked to say that one of the things that made life worth living was getting your friends’ wives into bed.
This looks like it never met an editor, much less a spellcheck.I am not talking about "this book is shit" because I am a Trump supporter (of course I'm not), because I think Wolff is lying (I don't), or because I'm mad he didn't have notes, cite sources, or provide evidence for what he's saying.
