https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67147.The_Woman_of_Rome
Alberto Moravia's passionate 1947 novel is narrated by Adriana, a young woman living with her mother in a small flat in a poor part of town.
Adriana's story is a poignant one, there are lighter moments of humour, but also darker moments of jealousy.Moravia's simple prose, written at a time when Italy was recovering from war, touches on fascism and how the lower classes struggled to make ends meet.
Told in the first person, Adriana's thoughts and feelings play highly throughout the novel, and Moravia isn't afraid to use lengthy time on one moment.
I did not have feeling at all that I was reading a old first-published in 1949 book.Told in first person by an unnamed narrator, this is the story of an 18-y/o prostitute, Adriana who at first did not know she was a prostitute because her mother was a prostitute and she thought it was a decent job.
One would easily (but depicted subtly) see the striking contrast: the beautiful but uneducated Adriana with men flocking to her body and the intelligent scholar who used to have so many friends but had to exist alone because of his betrayal.Then there is also an Italian Fascist officer who obeys whatever the dictator government asks him to do.
Por lo general, lo hace desnuda y le pagan miserias, así que la madre se pelea constantemente con los pintores mientras la vende como si fuera un florero porque la quiere bien (según Adriana).
Mientras, los vínculos con su madre (este personaje es turbio y dice cosas con mucha razón, pero la hacen quedar como una loca) y con su amiga Gisela se vuelven extraños y cada vez que mira a una mujer lo hace criticándola.
Such a sad, brutally honest and beautiful prose, I just loved it...I think what I liked most about The Woman of Rome is a certain sense of doom...an atmosphere of darkness, filled with restrictions, a suggestions of how tragic life really is and how the horrors of it are not easily avoided.
Having read a few novels with a similar theme (yes the story of prostitute with a golden heart is definitely a common one) one would think that I would have been tired of it.
This subject may have been overused...but in this case...even if you're tired of such stories, make an exception for this really is an exceptional novel.
Adriana is a young woman of Mussolini’s Italy who becomes a prostitute, or more accurately, grows into her destiny—what she believes she was born to be.
Like another Moravia novel, “The Conformist,” this one suggests that, in a cynical world, surrendering to fate can be the ultimate expression of freedom.
But unlike Clerici, the protagonist of “The Conformist” who resists his own nature, Adriana surrenders to hers with dedication, even optimism.
In her calm voice, she exposes the corruption and brutality of daily life in Fascist Italy without passing judgment on the individuals who must navigate it for their own survival.
Almost, almost perfect--the second half was not as good as the first, and I think it was due to my dislike of Mino, who I found irritating, superficial, and boring (he's intended to be this way, I know); not to mention the ending was rushed and kind of cray. But it's easy to forgive, especially when everything else about the book was so enjoyable. Definitely a favorite.Full review forthcoming.
"A Romana" deve ser o primeiro livro que li no qual o autor não dá nenhum desfecho para o personagem principal, não dá nenhum desfecho para a trama principal. Um livro promissor que se estraga nas duas últimas páginas. É como se Moravia, cansado de escrever, tivesse largado de súbito a pena, sem resolver o drama - ainda que fosse um final "aberto" - de Adriana, a protagonista. Decepcionante.
Leggere Moravia ,per me, è come seguire una linea dritta e chiara.La sua prosa è misurata ed egli ci
So cruel yet so tender. Full of oposits. Adriana lives a life of a prostitute yet her purpose's so pure. She is so deep yet so superficial . Moravia depicted such a moral decadence with so much understanding and avoided any judgement over the poor girl so as tooffer a reader an opportunity to come to his own verdict.Truly interesting reading consisting of interesting plot, tricky topic and psychological anlysing of morality deserves 4 and I honestly cecommend.
رواية شهيرة للاديب الايطالي البرتو مورافيا تناول فيها قضية الجمال الانثوي عندما يحاول الفرد استغلاله للوصول الى مركز اجتماعي مرموق ولكن الظروف احيانا تعاكسه في واقع اجتماعي مرير...الرواية بديعة وفيها نلتمس عبقرية الابداع التحليلي لمورافيا الرواية طبعت مرارا وتحولت الى افلام سينمائية
The naïve girl was clearly mentaly unstable and fell in love every ten pages or so. The book is not devoid of interesting bits, but amazingly it lacks any likeable character
Fortunately for interested readers, many of his books are now in print again and accessible, including his 1949 novel, "The Woman of Rome".The book tells the story of Adriana, a beautiful, poor, and uneducated young woman who begins as an artist's model at the age of 16.
Many readers see the book as a picture of corruption in Rome while others see it more as the story of Adriana.
It is a powerful picture of a God of mercy and forgiveness who holds the possibility of love out to all."The Woman of Rome" is a first-rate Twentieth Century novel.Robin Friedman
Unlike her friend, 'The Woman of Rome' takes a special kind of pride in her profession, as she calls it, never claiming to be anything she is not.The novel sets Adriana's life against the political situation of the day when she reminds us that 1936 was the year Italy brutally invaded Abyssinia.
Her positive attitude, although she herself feels suicidal at times, continuously asserts itself and in her way, given that a disastrous war is just around the corner, she comes to represent the spirit and beauty of the Italian people.I can't help wondering if Moravia wasn't writing from some personal experience in pre-World War Two Italy, as Adriana's voice is so vivid and full of little twists of character.
the emotions desribed felt so true. when she felt pain, I did too. If angry, me too; happiness, me too...I love the story, it felt real, as if I was right there with her, by her side, and we were connected in our minds and thoughts.
ربما يكون اوجه القصور الوحيد في الرواية هو أن هناك جزء ناقص من روح الرواية .. فرغم براعة مورافيا لكن هناك جزء داخلي عن احساس المرأة التي يأتي السرد في الرواية من خلالها أظنه غير كامل فيما عدا ذلك فمورفيا ينسج خيوطه ببراعة من خلال اربع شخصيات رئيسية الفتاة وامها وصديقها وصديقه الطامع بها
WOW. This is one of the most amazing books that I have ever read and I do not say this lightly! Just WOW.
Excelente livro, com um final horroroso, a ponto de perder uma estrela. Resenha completa por vir.
Focada principalmente em Adriana, uma jovem pobre, sensível, optimista e sonhadora que, quebrada pelas agruras da vida, recorre à prostituição como forma de subsistência, a obra conta ainda com outras personagens que, à sua maneira, vivem também a sua desilusão e mágoa de viver – um oficial Fascista e um idealista que, ao ser interrogado por agentes, acaba por, contra as suas ideologias e crenças, entregar os seus colegas ás autoridades.
Adriana aspira, mais do que tudo, a um casamento feliz com Gino, por quem se apaixona perdidamente, mas a sua mãe, costureira de profissão, após ter sido seduzida e abandonada por um homem, perdeu toda a confiança nos homens e no casamento… Assim sendo, planeia a sua própria ascensão social às custas da beleza da filha.
ako se u meni zbog uvrede desi kakva promjena, ona se ne ispoljava u mom drzanju ni u mojoj spoljasnosti, vec mnogo dublje, u mojo dusi koja se zatvara u samu sebe, kao sto se zatvara zdravo i zivo meso koje je zadobilo ranu i koje nastoji da rana sto prije zaraste.
Nista nije pomagalo sto sam ispruzena na krevetu zeljela da vise ne zivim, da se ujutro vise ne probudim, moje tijelo je dok sam spavala nastavljalo da zivi, krv je i dalje tekla mojim zilama, stomak i crijeva su varili, dlake ispod pazuha, tamo gdje sam ih obrijala, ponovno su nicale, nokti rasli, dlake se vlazile znojem, moja snaga se vracala.
The Woman of Rome: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...Adriana is a whore, but a good one.
And yet, Adriana has an enveloping personality, one that assumes good in all people, one that doesn’t judge others and herself, and one that accepts her life the way it is without complaining.
Her mother, a poor woman of little virtue, is convinced (as is Adriana herself) of the immense beauty of her daughter.
She believes Adriana can use this beauty to advance in life and to get from men anything she wants.
Her world is shaken; she turns to the only profession that her beauty can bring her – prostitution.Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
Adriana is a whore, and she is a good one.
She tells us that early on, "I had taken up a very hard profession --- the simulation of passionate love for men who actually roused the most contrary feelings in me..." She tells us the way she accomplished what every prostitute must accomplish with every man --- that is, satisfying them, despite her own feelings: "I quickly learned to pick out at first glance the one good or pleasing aspect in each man that would make intimacy bearable".
Very nice book about young nice girl which dicides to become prostitute because of desillusion of her first love.
And also there you can read why Adriana become the prostitute and how she thinks about that (it just job for her, nothing less nothing more).The second part is more scenic.
There are many relations between Adriana and her "customers".The end is quit sad, but nice ending of the story.In the begining it was a little bit strange for me read Adriana's view and feelings ect.
I absolutely recomand you to read this book.
Set in Fascist Roma, this novel recounts the coming of age of a beautiful, young and poor Roman girl.
The story focuses on her passage from innocence to experience that is brought about at the hands of her mother and a series of men with whom she has relationships.The most striking thing about this novel is the protagonist and narrator, Adriana, who is portrayed vividly by Moravia.
Her innocence as she opens the story is slowly peeled away by her experiences as the narrative progresses, but is done so in such a way as to be completely believable and engrossing.
A very good novel.
Had long struggling with this book. At the end, I can say that this was a fine book. Some moments were better than the other ones. It's nicely written and there were times where I truly love it, again times I didn't enjoy this at all. Overall even though I didn't like the main character this was fine book
قطعة من الجمال الجمل الصغيرة التى تحوي رؤي تحليلة نفسية غاية فى الدقة أبهرتنى أكثر من اى شئ أخرالرواية تحتاج أن أعيد قرائتها وأضع خطوطاً تحت الجمل التى استوقفتنى والتحليلات التى أعجزتنى لآتامل بها مرة أخرى واستخلص كامل عبيرها وأرى إن كانت تصادق الواقع حقاً وتستحق منى هذا الابهار ام انه وميض الكتابة الرائعة لـ آلبرتو ولا ينفك آن يزول
880. The Woman of Rome: Alberto Moravia
ومع ان القصة معتادة ومكررة الا ان اسلوب مورافيا الحي التصويري يجعلك تعيش القصه بكل تفاصيلها وجوانبها
قرأت الرواية في جلسة واحدة وهذه ليست المرة الأولي التي أقرأ فيها لمورافيا فقد قرأت له السأم والاحتقا
Také je mesto v príbehu Alberta Moraviu o prostitútke Adriane.Ona je nešťastne zaľúbená, najskôr znásilnená, potom sa predáva dobrovoľne.
S peniazmi je pravdepodobne spojený akýsi pocit hanby, a ten ju škrtá z počtu obyčajných hovorových tém a zaraďuje ju medzi veci, o ktorých je lepšie nehovoriť, medzi veci tajné a nezdieľané; akoby boli peniaze vždy zarobené zle, nech je už ich pôvod akýkoľvek.
Ale možno je tiež pravda, že žiadny človek neukazuje rád cit, ktorý v jeho srdci vzbudzujú peniaze, cit veľmi silný, ktorý je takmer vždy spojený s tieňom viny."Román je nakoniec zmesou dobrodružstiev, ktoré spolu drží len postava Rimanky.
Nor, I suspect, was anybody buying this particular paperback, illustrated as it is with a generic hooker looking degraded, and a breathless cover question: "Was she good, or was she bad?" But, according to all the critics I looked up when this book seemed to be four or five levels of class above what I was expecting, a masterwork is what it is.
I read this as a good story, well told, with depths of charactarization and a well-realized setting.
Good for those who like their great literature to be Dickensian, rather than Joycian.
