https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356896.The_Greatest_Salesman_in_the_World
At first, I turned away from this book because of the title.
I assumed it was a guide to exploitation and hoarding.
Actually, it's a spiritual book.
But throughout it is also about sales.pg 88 - 89Today I will multiply my value a hundredfold.A mulberry leaf touched with the genius of man becomes silk.A field of clay touched with the genius of man becomes a castle.A cyprus tree touched with the genius of man becomes a shrine.A cut of sheep's hair touched with the genius of man becomes raiment for a king.If it is possible for leaves and clay and wood and hair to have their value multiplied a hundred, yea a thousandfold by man, cannot I do the same with the clay which bears my name?Here's one about limiting factors:pg 100I ask not for gold or garments or even opportunities equal to my ability; instead, guide me so that I may acquire ability equal to my opportunities.
I listened to the audio book and was surprised. I was expecting a high intensity instruction book on selling and closing the sale. As you all know, or should learn, is that The Greatest Salesman in the World is miles away from that perception. I am reading the first scroll now, and am on day 16. If you've read the book, you know what I'm talking about. If you haven't, you should. It's an easy read. It has the potential to change your life.
I've been reading this book for the last 2.5 years, 3 times/day every day.
I read each of them over and over and over again, as a result of reading scroll #1.
I've been repeating this process over and over again and what I've come to the conclusion of is this; there is much value in the Habit you create when you read this book in the prescribed way the book says to read it.
I now have 3 blocks of time set aside during the day, everyday, which I did not have before I started reading this book.
Now I didn’t pounce on the chapter about kinda sorta praying to an ambiguous God doing something somewhere—as I figured it was part of this catch-all, sell a million copies by being vague routine—but I’ll rip on this specific point: The inference is that the Apostle Paul ‘successfully’ spread the good news of Jesus because he was a great salesman who believed in himself, see?
Again, God likes hard work, a successful business can be a blessing, and yeah, The Greatest Salesman in the World advocates giving to the poor, but all of this is rather short sighted.
Probably the most inspiring book i've ever read.This is written by a guy who had the most difficult life, as a travelling salesman, he experienced some serious difficulties and became an alcoholic, lost his wife and became homeless.
He picked himself up, became a writer and achieved huge success.I was reading it at a very challenging time, when I was selling books door-to-door over a summer at University and I absorbed the principles of the book.
It gave me motivation when I was struggling to continue knocking on doors.
I read this book 25 years ago on a business trip to Chicago. Not beverage service, turbulence, nor a thunderstorm could get me to look up from it. I think I read it in a day. The flight attendant asked about it at the end of the flight. "That must be one very good book," she said. It is. Mandino gets pigeon-holed for being an "inspirational" writer, which takes in down a notch in some literary circles. It is a shame. He writes very gripping stories about the spritual truths that we all confront.
WOW, only 110 pages but not one word was wasted.
There is something about these older books that just blow my mind.
It was in the 60's and written about B.C. time frame and the principles that were true in that time are still true today.
"The secret", "Think and Grow Rich", "Rich Dad Poor Dad", and countless others teach a lot of the same concepts and they are all true!!
it well come true.
"Your desire to succeed has to be greater than your fear of failure" - WOW, it's that simple people.
When the book was written in 1968, Og Mandino was the most widely read inspirational ansd self-help author in the world.
He believed that "failure will never overtake you if your determination to succeeed is strong enough." The life lessons were told in scrolls that were opened:1.
Today I begin a new life.2.
I will greet the day with love in my heart.3.
I will live this day as if is my last.6.
Today I will be master of my emotions.7.
Today I will multiply my value a hundredfold.9.
I will pray for guidance.Self-help books remind me of New Year's resolutions.
I found this book brilliant, profound in its message and yet simple in its delivery.
It is one of those life-changing books that one can take as much or as little from, but cannot claim to be untouched by its message in some way.
This book was recommended to me by a dear friend and I am immensely grateful.
Rest assured, this book is the story about a salesman, but is certainly not confined to sales or any one group of people for that matter.
I highly recommend this read to all my friends.
There are three books that I read on a yearly basis: "The Screwtape Letters" by C.S. Lewis, "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens and "The Greatest Salesman in the World" by Og Mandino.As a profession, I am not a salesman. I have never really been a salesman. That's not the reason to read this book...although it will help you in that field.What this book does is show you simple steps to take to make important changes in your life to become "The Greatest ____________ in the World." (Fill in the blank yourself.)
Like hearing a good rock band but being disappointed to learn they are a *Christian* rock band, I grooved to this book until the "Jesus" chorus. Thankfully, Mandino saved it for the last chapter, allowing the reader to get through the great messages and mantras without (depending on one's religious lean) feeling betrayed. Except for the Gospel lesson, this was a great and well-written story that will be like a reference book anytime I catch myself lacking courage, motivation, or laughter.
Its short and to the point however the ritualistic requirements for the practices in the book is not really my cup of tea.This is one of those “fake it until you make it” type of personal growth books asking the reader to read one chapter/scroll 3 times a day for a month before going to the next chapter.
The wisdom each scroll contains is nothing new but perhaps we all need to sometimes be reminded that we are smart, capable and worthy of the things we desire in our lives and that bad times will always pass.A lot of the content feels a bit cliché and perhaps its because this book was published in 1968 and we have heard these words before in some guise or another.
Og Mandino's "The Greatest Salesman in the World"Published in 1968 and still true today.
No surprises in revealing the 10 ways to change your life, but the surprise is revealed in the story.1)Any act, with practice, becomes easy2)"love is my weapon to open the hearts..." pg.603)Persistance breeds success4)Acknowledge your unique-ness5)Live each day as if it were your last6)Master your emotions and live with humility7)"happiness is the wine that sharpens the taste of the meal" pg.
86--LAUGH often (THIS IS MY FAVORITE!!)8)Compound your goals9)Take Action (Nike used this to succeed--JUST DO IT)10)Call on the Lord to guide youAgain, the story has so much more to it than these 10 terrific tips.I encourage readers to take the journey to finding out exactly WHO is the greatest salesman in the world???...
This short classic parable has helped inspire many people with a heart warming story and ten scrolls, each with a short but very important lesson.
In Mandino's story, the inheritors of the scrolls are told they must read each scroll morning, noon, and night for thirty days before moving to the next scroll.
By doing so, the principals in each scroll become a habit.
Want to make a change, sustained repetition is the answer.
Just want to be inspired?
You may be inspired to read each scroll thrice daily for thirty days - it will make a great positive change in your life.
Deep. Beautiful. Excellent. Containing the basic principles of life, simple but powerful, this short book can change a person's life if he applies these principles properly. I admired each word of the book, as I admire the author's biography and how he led his life through pain and misery to joy and success.
Then he closes the storyline with a beautiful ending tying it all together.Strangely enough I came to know about this book while reading a bio of Matthew Mcconaughey on IMDB, who is a famous actor that grew up in my small town of Longview Tx. He stated this book as being one of his inspirations for his career and success.
I am normally not influenced by statements of the famous, but after reading the synopsis I was intrigued.
Thank you Matthew and I wish you continued success in career, but more importantly life.
It was one of the greatest book that ever read. I'm very excited about the story. The book wasn't only related to the sells. It also contains a lot of wisdom how to improve your life and how to become more excellent in everything you do. I will read that book every year ! Thank you Mr. Mandino.
The Greatest Salesman in the World by Og Mandino (A Book Review)“The Greatest Salesman in the Wolrd” is a self-help classic from best-selling author Og Mandino. It’s a tiny book with some powerful principles, written in a compelling, clear style that makes for a quick read. It tells a story of Hafid’s journey from being a humble camel boy to the titular greatest salesman in the world. How his journey can also be yours. The main highlight of the book is the “The Ten Scrolls of Success” which the
The message is familiar to anyone who has read through self-help and success books, but is presented in a very simple format…and is primarily written for Christians.
It’s an interesting read and its message is something one might ponder over at times, but it’s really not for people who are not willing to make positive changes in their attitudes or actions.
If, however, you really think you can change your life, and that your success depends on your habits and attitudes, this book could start some very powerful changes.
Mayah GilmerFreshman English CMr. Lynch2/1/2011The Greatest Salesman in the World, written by Og Mandino, was one of his bestsellers, and sold over 50 million copies.
Mandino’s life soon went down hill because of alcoholism, but after his wife and child left him, he went to the library and ended up reading hundreds of books about success.
Soon after, Og Mandino then became a very successful writer.
He is then sent off on a spiritual journey in Damascus, reads the ten scrolls, and faces many obstacles both good and bad to take on the full throne.I really enjoyed the book.
I have been in sales for over 30 years and read almost ever title imaginable (Check out my shelves with more to add!)I had resisted reading this book (seemed too trendy at the time to be relevant) until I had my first "commission only" job.
They have been compared to this title often but go more into the contemporary challenges of a sales person going from struggle to success.
But if you are struggling, need to find balance between your life's mission/commission, or just a refresher about what it noble about sales, then you need to read this book!
Fabulous book that I have read so many times that I have lost count. Each time I read it, I read it the way it is meant to be read, staying on each "scroll" chapter for 30 days, before moving onto the next chapter, thus taking ten months to read the book. I try to live my life by the amazing tenets handed down for centuries in these ten scrolls. If we all lived by these tenets our world would be a much more loving, peaceful, and wonder-filled place to live.
THIS THE MOST INSPIRATIONAL BOOK I HAVE EVER READ. THANKS OG!" Never will I pray for the material things of the world. I am not calling to a servant tobring me good. I am not ordering an innkeeper to provide me with room. Never will Iseek delivery of gold, love, good health, petty victories, fame, success, or happiness.Only for guidance will I pray, that I may be shown the way to acquire these things,and my prayer will always be answered.'
I've read this book many, many times. Every time I read it, it's like the first time I read it. Although no book gives greater direction for life than the Bible, this one is incredibly lovely and helpful. It was a gift from my mom when I was younger. She told me to dwell in it's instructions. It's just a beautiful read. I've given it as a Christmas gifts to numerous friends and they've all echoed my sentiments. If you'd like to read it, let me know, and I'll buy you a copy!
I selected this book based on the recommendation of a respected colleague. I thought it was going to be just another book on how to sell. When I read the first sentence, I knew that my expectations were wrong.While this book may improve your sales, its greater message is on how to live your life so that you will be successful. If this has piqued your curiosity at all, get a copy and read it. It's short and only takes about 2 hours to read, so do it soon.
This motivational "PMA" book is a re-read for me. While I may not agree with all the minor theories mentioned in passing, the overall premises that you and I were created for a purpose; that each of us has value;' that we all need encouragement, goals, and to fulfill said purpose are good ones.The ultimately positive message is also a help when I am having difficulty with depression.
This book went straight into my personal favorites of all time. It's extremely motivational and will inspire you to take action to achieve your goals. I cannot recommend it enough. Don't let the title fool you, the book is not just about sales. The topic is more about general success and the 10 lessons presented in the book are evergreen wisdom. I highly recommend you to check out this book!
Og Mandino was the editor of Success Magazine for many years. I wish he had spent that time writing more books. The Greatest Salesman in The World is one of the most enjoyable self-help books I've ever read.
Couldn't finish reading the book. The first part is just to put on irrelevant makeup to the main contents of the books. The pieces of advice on the paper rolls were written out as some illusory doctrines that get out of my head every minute. Maybe I'm not suitable for this self-help style.
Yet each struggle, each defeat, sharpens your skills and strengths, your courage and your endurance, your ability and your confidence and thus each obstacle is a comrade-in-arms forcing you to become better...or quit."2) "Failure will never overtake me if my determination to succeed is strong enough."3) "In truth, the only difference between those who have failed and those who have succeeded lies in the difference of their habits.
Without it I will fail though I possess all the knowledge and skills of the world."5) "Nor will I allow yesterday's success to lull me into today's complacency, for this is the great foundation of failure.
I was told this book is similar to The Alchemist and was actually told it may be better.
She was absolutely correct, it is a very similar book and I enjoyed it.
Both books are set in biblical times and you actually come across events that happened in the bible.
The difference between the two is that the Alchemist was more of a story teaching lessons where in The Greatest Salesman actually uses the contents of the scrolls as chapters, teaching as the main character read them, which allows the reader to be able to digest the material and put it to practical use in real life.
Is it better than Alchemist, its a tough call, but I will say I liked it just as much.
