https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235662.The_Mayor_of_Castro_Street
A great biography about a great American hero.---------(earlier comment)This seemed like a natural after finishing "The Celluloid Closet." So far, early in, it's an ultra-fascinating look at what it was like for an "All American boy" to grow up gay in the 1940s and 1950s in New York City and environs: the furtiveness and danger but also the rare joy of finding monogamous happiness in spite of the incredible obstacles.I've seen the excellent 1984 documentary, "The Times of Harvey Milk" a couple of times; the first time more than 20 years ago.
The Mayor of Castro Street is both a biography of Milk and a history of gay life in mid-twentieth century America, one which I enjoyed reading.Shilts takes care to highlight the disgust Milk felt for what amounted to a "gay establishment" in the 1970s.
Then, as now, a gay bogeyman was evoked for political gain; state senator John Briggs made little secret that his initiative was a platform from which to launch a campaign for higher office.
He was a San Francisco reporter both during and after Milk's life, and he also lived in the Castro neighborhood.
Even in the 1980s Shilts saw the Castro gays become apathetic about politics and civil rights.
The Mayor of Castro Street: The Life and Times of Harvey Milk by Randy Shilts is by far one of the most remarkable books I have ever read.
Shilts attention to detail helps create a historical map of how things were, how they changed when Harvey arrived in San Francisco and the legacy he left behind after his murder.
Harvey’s impact on society reached across this country and created a new found awareness for everyone in the GLBT movement.As so many people have recently stated, it is an ironic twist that timing of the movie about Harvey’s life came out when it did.
Well-written biography of Harvey Milk.
Shilts portrays Milk with all his fire and passion for life: both personal and political.
We see his skill as a politician with an inate sense of theatre and of justice, who built a broad support base that included not just the gay population but small business, blue collar industry and other minority groups.
And we see how gay sexual and political empowerment fed into Milk's own personal outsized life.This edition comes with the full text of four of Milk's most famous speeches, including his Hope Speech and his recorded political will.
Reading about the White Night riots (after the Dan White trial and verdict), I could viscerally understand them.(2) It was great to see the things the movie (understandably for time and narrative reasons) left out.
This included the White Night riots and the minutia of politics in California in the 60s and 70s (among others).(3) The book provoked some great food for thought in my head about politics and queer strategy.(4) There should be an alternative history novel in which Harvey Milk isn't assassinated.(5) Listening to the audiobook in tandem with reading the physical book enhanced my enjoyment of the book.
Previously having read And The Band Played On, I knew I would enjoy this book before I read it.
Since Shilts was a journalist and an author, his narration is gripping.
For many years, I have attempted to understand the experiences of my gay brothers and sisters so I can be a better ally.
And books like these are a good way to begin.
I had seen Milk, but I liked learning more about him as a person, as opposed to the skin-deep version we got in the movie.
If you have any interest in GLBT Studies, The Mayor of Castro Street definitely needs to be on your must-read list.
June 2009Having recently watched both the documentary and the more recent film, I was curious to learn more about the life of Harvey Milk.
This book provides it.
The Mayor of Castro Street is a fascinating look into Milk’s life and all-too-short political career, as well as a detailed (and sad) history of gay rights in the Twentieth Century.
Randy Shilts’ death obviously complicates that, but any number of Milk’s successors could’ve provided some sort of afterword.
And you can definitely see from this book that Harvey Milk was obsessed with winning votes and furthering his agenda, but the agenda was always about fundamentally important community development issues -- expanding rights for the vulnerable, fighting corporate interests, and developing cities from the inside instead of the outside.
Another thing I liked about this book is that it presented a neutral profile of a politician who didn't have a pearly white chaste personal life.
At the same time, those speeches were a big bummer because he actually talked a lot about non-exclusively gay issues like fighting big business and tourist interests, making San Francisco an accessible place to live, developing neighborhood-centric city plans...
This is a great story about a tremendous personality, but unfortunately, not a very good book.Harvey Milk is a legend, and the best thing that the author did here was to bring his personality to life in these pages.
As the book went on, I liked him more and more, I was in his corner, I wanted him to succeed and I was deeply sad at his end, though I knew it was coming.
And the focus on his life faltered and become more and more sporadic as the book went on.Perhaps this is because Randy Shilts was well-intentioned but overly ambitious in everything he wanted to cover.
All these years I have wondered why the media have described the double assassination of 1978 as THE MURDER OF HARVEY MILK (oh, and the mayor of San Francisco too).
We learn all about Harvey Milk and what a big personality he had, what a terrific advocate he was -- not just for gay rights, but for all the rights of anyone within range -- and what a gifted grassroots politician he was.
Shilts also paints a wonderful portrait of the many, many changes going on in San Francisco at the time, some of them quite ominous.
I love Harvey Milk. I really do. But after reading this book, I think I like him a little less. I love that Randy Shilts can write about my hero, flaws and all, and still leave me humbled. Humbled that even the people we idolize are actually, like all of us, flawed human beings.
When in San Francisco one reads about its slain royalty.
Beside the lines "You gotta give 'em hope" in my copy of this book I wrote a small note that said, "I love you Harvey." In reality I'm almost positive I would have a far more nuanced opinions or Harvey Milk, but reading about the man gives me hope and so I love him for it.I credit whatever pre-"coming out" self-awareness with the movie Milk which brought my attention to Harvey Milk in the first place.
Hope is not always easy to have in queer community, but Harvey Milk gives me hope.
Where The Mayor of Castro Street turns its eye mainly on one man, his entourage and local politics, And The Band Played On goes national, medical, polyvocal.As has been noted, Shilts doesn't shy away from the complexities of local politics.
Milk was not shy about expressing the opinion that gay people should come out (pretty rich for a man who only came out after both his parents' deaths) and be the candidates instead of supporting them.
Band is superior, and Mayor lets the reader see not only where Jones, Feinstein, Kraus, et al came from, but also where Shilts himself did.
This comes after 300+ pages devoted to Milk's innovative and controversial political tactics and all his personal idiosynchrasies, so I immediately scratched my head over Shilts's assertion.
This is absolutely why so many people are moved by his story: he felt that he was worthy of power, his sexual orientation notwithstanding, and then a straight, white, Catholic ex-cop shot him down and was exonerated.I think it's just that calling this the Universal Gay Experience (UGE) is a dated statement.
Shilts would admit that, before Milk, and Stonewall, and all the previous civil rights movements, the UGE did not have a model for asserting power.
It reminded me of Randy Shilts' remarkable decade of incredible productivity, which included And the Band Played On (his chronicle of the AIDS epidemic) and Conduct Unbecoming (his exploration of the gay people serving in the U.S. military, which came well before the ultimate changes during President Obama's first term).
That San Francisco is long gone now, not only because so many of the people who lived in the Castro perished from AIDS, but also because that city experienced gentrification to such an extreme degree.
Harvey Milk was the kind of person who moved to San Francisco in the 1970s but who could never afford to live there now.
After watching Milk, I realized there was a lot I didn't know about this time in history, even though I had seen the documentary in the mid-nineties and remember a paragraph or two from my American History book.
It's apparent that Shilts did a great deal of research and was able to get at Milk from many angles, which rounded him out as a figure -- Shilts presented him in a very human, relatable way.
I found a lot of what is written about in this book still relevant to today's struggle for glbt rights.
This book far exceeded my expectations.
I've known about Harvey Milk for many years and as a gay person I obviously took a special interest in his story.
What I loved about this book is how eloquently it weaves his story with that of the overall gay movement since WWII.
It also dissects San Francisco politics, the gentrification of The Castro, and city's history very well.I already loved and admired Harvey Milk and saw him as one of my personal heroes, and this book made that feeling even stronger.
That the murder of the Mayor of San Francisco's Mayor, George Moscone, and City Supervisor Harvey Milk left the Lesbian and Gay Community in San Francisco leaderless at a time when it most needed leadership.
I believe that, had Harvey Milk lived, the response of America to the AIDS plague would have been very different.
Education Programs would have been better funded and more numerous, and research earlier on might have reduced significantly the number of AIDS deaths, here and Throughout the world.And I'm still angry that Dan White was convicted of Manslaughter for two counts of Premeditated Murder.
Randy Shilts himself was gay and lived and worked in San Francisco shortly after the events of this book happened.
There is a certain authenticity, then, to this book that would be lacking were the author instead heterosexual, or lived in a different city or time.
The way he describes San Francisco, you almost feel as though you are there while everything was going on.
The way he describes the homophobic culture of the 40's, 50's, and 60's has just a slight personal accent that only an LGBT writer could impart on the story.
Enjoyed this book a lot, glad I got a chance to read it before I go see the movie "Milk".
I really didn't know anything about Harvey Milk or the struggles he went through on the way to elected office in San Francisco.
The book gives an excellent picture of the city & its political & social life in the 1960s and 70s.
There's a lot of detail about the political in-fighting Milk had to engage in to get where he wanted to be.
Maybe a little more politics than I wanted to read about now that I've just gotten through a whole year of it; I'm exhausted!
I would give this book 3.5 stars if I could.It's not that I didn't like it. In fact, I raved about it, for a while. But the middle became very long, tedious, and rife with domestic political struggles. (I suppose, as an international relations major, I'm already predisposed to being uninterested in the local political arena.)I much preferred the beginning third of the book, and then the last 50 pages or so. It's made me curious to see what has occurred in San Francisco since Harvey Milk's assassination, and how Castro became the district it is today.
4.5This book... I have no words.The only reason I don't rate it five stars is because it's quite wordy every now and then and therefore kind of dragging. Apart from that this book is absolutely marvelous.
Correspondingly, Randy Shilts was the first openly gay journalist to make a place and name for himself in the US press (and have the nerve to write gay stories).
The writing style is very journalistic -- which works well, in the context of the book.
For myself, I'm not that all-fired bothered, because somebody who knew Harvey Milk personally (and did as much research as Shilts did, to bring this book together) would know the truth of things better than anybody else.
I'm quite prepared to take what Shilts writes on trust.Great book, with its reprint timed to coincide with the movie ...
This biography by  Randy Shilts gives an engaging overview of Harvey's life and his impact on San Francisco and the gay community of the United States in three acts.
His murder is covered in a slow, methodical, almost painful timeline, pulling you into the shock and chaos of both the gay community and the entire city of San Francisco upon losing such a dynamic leader.Randy Shilts tells Harvey's story in a dynamic, engaging way, using accounts from people who had been on the ground and were witnesses to the events, or who knew Harvey Milk, San Francisco, and the various political actors covered in the book.
These speeches, included in the appendix, should not be skipped as they will help to ground the concepts discussed throughout the biography.Readers interested in the aftermath of Milk's assassination or in the politics of San Francisco since the assassination would be well-served to utilize a second reference as Shilts's writing stops in the early 1980's and a great deal has changed in that time.The Mayor of Castro Street is a well-researched and well-told history of Harvey Milk and the movement he helped to create.
Shilts writes Harvey advanced quickly in the Navy after enlistment.
He goes on stating Harvey served "of" the USS Kittywaite, a "San Diego aircraft carrier that cruised the Pacific." The USS Kittywake (ASR-13) was not an aircraft carrier but was instead a US Navy Chanticleer-class submarine rescue vessel.
So what ship, if any, did Harvey serve on?While it may seem picky to call out these obvious errors, I ended up wondering why Shilts didn't verify this information.
As a result of these errors, I'm already wondering what other mistakes Shilts made when writing his book.
Give me a good documentary about a historical figure any day, with interesting anecdotes about the people who knew them or where there.
I struggled early in this book with all the background groundwork being laid, but found myself really intrigued by the fact that I kind of disliked the younger Harvey Milk and his ideals.
As I went along, I found myself becoming more and more interested in the story that unfolded and the events that led to his all-too-early death.
I was also intrigued by the fact that his death came much earlier in the biography than expected.
Though I understand some background information is necessary, I wasn't a fan of how Shilts presented the narrative, until Milk's move to San Francisco.
Looking back, credit must be given to Shilts who had to spend time addressing the first 40 years of Milk's life which were rather mundane as his extraordinary memory and legacy were built in such a short time period once he moved to San Francisco.
In the end, I had no choice but to give the book 4 stars because so many times I truly felt like I was there, in the Castro, watching Harvey Milk stand with a bullhorn.
i've been meaning to read this book for years.
as i was off to san francisco a few weeks ago, i thought it'd be the perfect time to finally get to it.
this is a really fantastic book.
he doesn't come across as some matyr saint - in the book he's ambitious, a little condescending, pretty cruel to his many lovers, often rather crude (and a little creepy), but he was still an inspiration and his story and many speeches about hope left me with a lump in my throat.
