https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1643617.The_Handsome_Road
The second book of "Plantation triology" by Gwen Bristow .. The atrocities and the cruelty of American civil war .. and the the lives of two women who overshadow one another .. this is a very interesting read rich in culture, romance and history. Again, I admire southern woman and adore this book. Well deserved 4 stars .. ❤❤❤
The second book of "Plantation triology" by Gwen Bristow .. The atrocities and the cruelty of American civil war .. and the the lives of two women who overshadow one another .. this is a very interesting read rich in culture, romance and history. Again, I admire southern woman and adore this book. Well deserved 4 stars .. ❤️❤️❤️
Handsome Road is the second in Gwen Bristow's Plantation Trilogy, picking up several generations down the line with two very different women in the American Civil War. Ann is the pampered young wife of a Louisiana planter; Corrie May is a dockyard cousin who fights for survival in a society where she is viewed as white trash.
The Civil War up-ends most of that, and both girls endure parallel experiences of loss, luxury, poverty, and motherhood.
Ann keeps her plantation together through all costs to herself, and Corrie May's snatch at luxury ends her poorer than ever - though her son offers a chance at redemption that Ann will never have.
Gone with the Wind, set in the same time period, focused on the rise and fall of the plantation families, whereas this book compares and contrasts a Southern Belle and a young woman who is 'po' white trash'.
Other books have focused on slavery and in this book we see that the poor white workers of the region and period were worth much less.
I learned a lot of history from this story including the existence of breeding houses, where black infants were sold into slavery; also the rise of the carpetbaggers.
A historical novel about two women whose lives are changed by the American Civil War, and whose worlds repeatedly intersect, often in unexpected ways.
1949.Full review (and recommendations of other little-known books!) at Another look bookA high-quality historical fiction that afforded me some nice escapism during the final parts of a very cold winter.
I especially appreciated being exposed--for basically the first time--to the plights of the poor, white laboring class during the Civil War-era South.
The idea that a whole class of people (arguably) had it worse than slaves was quite eye-opening.
I also liked that the two women didn't turn all chummy towards each other; it was more like they were nemeses.
This book takes the story of the Larne, Sheramy and UpJohn families through the civil war and it's aftermath.
The author provides a very realistic portrayal of the upper class Larnes and Sheramys and the poor UpJohns, the latter having to struggle for work as the upper class had the slave labor to do most of the work for "free".
Also, the turnaround of the cultures in the aftermath of the civil war, the Larnes and Sheramys having to struggle to survive and keep their plantations while Corrie May was able to catch a coattail of a carpet bagger and his money.
How is it I enjoyed this so much even when I disliked each character by turns?
This is way I love Bristow historical novel.Secondly, the fictional stories about two women are magnificent.
Of course I don't know any man from those times, it is obvious ;-) But I think that the characters in this books are so close to the truth as they could be.Ann or Corrie May are so full of faults and prejudice.
The more I think about it the more wonderful seems to me this book.So, if you want something more from a historical fiction I don't know what it could be.
It is from the point of view of Corrie Mae, a "white trash" girl and Anne Larne, a plantation artistocrat and the difference in their living circumstances.
Before the war the negroes were taken care of everything was provided for them and after the war it was a level playing field for the poor whites and the free slaves.
The book doesn't downplay any of the three distinct roles of rich white, poor white, field slaves or house slaves but rather looks at it from their point of view with clarity and sympathy for each group with developing characters.
The forward to the book starts out "On the 14th of March, 1794, Eli Whitney patented his cotton-gin.
He goes on to explain "The cotton-gin was bound to come sometime.
But if it had been delayed fifty years, almost certainly by that time American slavery would have ended; the lords of cotton would have built their fortunes with laborers who worked for wages, and there would have been no Civil War.In the 1790's most Americans thought slavery was on its way out." The forward was as interesting as the book.
The Handome Road brings some of the characters from Deep Summer further along in history.
Telling the story of the causes of the civil war from various viewpoints makes it easier to understand why the South defended slavery.
The plantation owners needed the slaves and the poor whites could never rise from poverty because who would pay them to work when slaves would work for nothing?
That meant they had nothing to fight for.
The fictional characters gave so much life to the history that these books in the plantation trilogy were hard to put down.
In “Handsome Road” the Klu Klux Klan is portrayed as white heroes protecting the plantation owners from northern carpetbaggers and violent blacks.
In any case, that narrow portrayal of the racial situation during the time of the novels has a serious impact on the reality of the stories.In “Handsome Road” the main characters are Ann Larne, married to Denis Larne a rich plantation owner and Corri May Upjohn, who is poor white trash.
The fortunes of the heroines reverse a couple of times, and we see each character and her reaction to being rich and poor.In spite of the negatives, the book has an interesting story with believable characters.
Und dann droht auch noch der Bürgerkrieg…Im zweiten Teil ihrer Louisana-Trilogie vermittelt Gwen Bristow uns den krassen Gegensatz zwischen Arm und Reich in den Südstaaten der Vereinigten Staaten zur Zeit des Bürgerkriegs.
Auf der Seite der Plantagenbesitzer scheint Anne Sheramy eine unbekümmerte, naive und oberflächliche Person zu sein, doch auch sie muss einiges durchleben und ihr Potenzial wird dabei oft verkannt.
Folgenden Satz fand ich beispielsweise sehr weise: “… sanft ist die Straße, über die ich gewandert bin - mir fehlt ein Maßstab; von den Gipfeln und den Abgründen der Wirklichkeit weiß ich nichts.” (Seite 75)Mehr als im ersten Teil der Trilogie geht es in diesem Roman um Armut und Ungerechtigkeit.
The second book of this trilogy is set in Louisiana along River Road immediately before, during and after the Civil War. It juxtaposes plantation life with that of the "poor white trash".
Life at Ardeith Plantation is glamorous and extravagant until the war takes a toll and will only endure with determination and acceptance that life has now changed.
Reading it again was also fun, but this time rather than be swept away by the romance and nostalgia of the era, I was more aware and more interested in the subtle implications of the opposing way of life lived at Ardeith Plantation and in Rattletrap Square and how the war changed life for both.
4.5 stars. The Handsome Road is the second book of Gwen Bristow's Plantation Trilogy and I actually like this one better than the first book. The time period is pre- to post-civil war and it continues the story of the Larne/Sheridan family, now expanded into walks of life other than the big plantation dwellers. Corrie May Upjohn's life differs vastly from that of Anne Larne. I love the history, detail, and complex characters. I'm looking forward to reading the final book in the trilogy soon.
A unique perspective on the Civil War South featuring the disdain between the rich plantation slave-owners and the poor non-slave/land-owner whites. Corrie May Upjohn (and Gwen Bistow, for that matter for 1938) is quite ahead of her time in her refutation of The Lost Cause. Interestingly, I googled "White Trash" and the term first came into use in the 1830's as a perjorative used by house slaves against poor whites. Not only does Corrie May have a beef with the rich land owners, but also with the house slaves with whom she comes in contact.
This is the second book of, "The Plantation Trilogy", and it didn't disappoint. It takes place during the Civil War and goes back and forth between two grandchildren of Delores, the poor white trash gal that Caleb accidently married in book one. One is a grand plantation lady who has no idea of this ancestry and the other fights for life in the slums of New Orleans. Great story.
Glorious ReadI adore this series. It is more educational regarding class distinctions in the white antebellum and postwar South than any I have ever read. The author has immediately become on of my very favorites of all time.
Good as the first. Will read the third.
The Handsome Road is book two of the Plantation trilogy by Gwen Bristow.
The original settlers and their children have all died and it is now their grandchildren and great-grandchildren who are on the plantation and in the surrounding town.
Another Denis Larne now runs Ardeith plantation.
Ann’s brother Jerry along with their father live on Silverwood next door.
Corrie May Upjohn lives in the very poorest part of town with her mother, father, and two brothers.
She runs into Ann Sheramy Larne one day and hears Denis is looking for men to cut wood in the swamp.
The beginning ad ending of the United States Civil War Book two of the Plantation Trilogy details much information about a once aristocratic way of life for large Plantation owners in Louisiana and thr thousands of slaves upon whose lives of tragedy and back breaking labor in the cotton and sugar cane fields that made it all possible.
Finally it discusses what happened in Louisiana at the end of the war with very few able bodied men who returned, and the arrival of the carpetbaggers.
If you've never heard or read about the reconstruction of the South, then this is a book you must read.
Connie Mae Upjohn is poor white trash, but smart and wants to make something of her life. Hardship sends her to the Ardeith plantation looking for work, where she admires Ann Larne and learns from watching her about the gentility. Later, the Civil War changes everyone’s fortunes and, through the overseer-turned-carpetbagger, she imitates the rich lifestyle of the rich southern families, until fortune’s wheel turns again.Learn of relations between classes and castes around the Civil War, economic oppression of whites, carpetbaggers and opportunism after the war, building and protecting levees.
This is the second in the Plantation trilogy (see my review for Deep Summer (#1). The time has shifted to the Civil War, with predictable consequences for aristocratic planters. But, agreeably, this time the focus is on one of the "white trash" characters, who resents the louche aristocrats and determines to make her own destiny. Of course, that means shacking up with the post Civil War carpetbagger villain, but I love how even when she is once again destitute, she triumphs in the end thanks to her indomitable will.
Read Gone With The Wind as a teenager. Enjoyed it very much and I also saw the movie. The Handsome Road is the real thing! Gwen Bristow delivers a riveting read which is a continuation of the Plantation trilogy.The characters, historical detail and storyline are so wonderfully done. I was enthralled with this novel as I have been with all of this authors writing. This is historical fiction at it's very best.
This was the 2nd book of the Plantation Trilogy, and much longer. I finally got to understand the character Corrie May Upjohn that I had heard so much about in the third book. I had to order this book from the Cobb County Inter Library Loan. It came from Mercer University, and originally it was in the library of Betsy Tift College. Did I mention that Betsy Willingham Tift was my husband's grandfather's sister? Pretty ironic.
2nd in the plantation series. this book dragged on and on and seemed to have no point or plot. Maybe it was just intended to be a bridge from the first to the third book in the series. My local library system does not have the third book, and I am not inclined to order it on amazon at this point. Such a let down after reading Celia Garth.
This was a little more serious than Bristow's normally have been for me. It seemed like one bad thing after another kept happening to the characters. I did find it an entertaining way to learn more about the Civil War and it gave me a few outlooks to consider that I'd never thought of before. I didn't love it, but I didn't stop reading it either!
The second book in the "Plantation Trilogy." I enjoyed it just as much as the first one, perhaps even a little more. Bristow is great at showing the effects of the Civil War on different classes of people. Her writing is vivid and kept me turning the pages to see what was going to happen next to poor Ann and Corrie May. On to the next!
Covers the lives of two white women before, during, and after the Civil War. It's a bit of a discussion of class struggle. One woman is "poor white trash" while the other has been raised in privilege as a planter's daughter. As the Civil War rages, their lives are altered forever and both women take their turn struggling to survive while raising a son in the post war South.
When I saw the cover of this book, I knew this series was the one I was looking for. I sure do remember that cover.I read all three books in this trilogy when I was in middle school or early high school. I was really into them because they were set in Louisiana. I was into historical fiction/romance in those days. I really liked this book (and the other two) at the time I read them.
Absolutely wonderful perspective of the plantation rich and the cajun poor in Natchez, MS. The moonlights and magnolia South comes alive with visions of hoop skirts, ready-called black servants, wealth, and privilege - all seen through the eyes of a white trash poor cajun girl.
