https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1215025.The_Theory_and_Practice_of_Hell
It came highly recommended by the tour guide I had, when I visited Sachsenhausen - even though the book is about Buchenwald.Some parts were difficult to read and it was quite emotional, but he gave such a matter-of-fact account of his time in the camp it made his book more than just a personal account of life inside the camp.The chapters on 'the psychology of...' gave great insight into reasons behind people's actions.
My father-in-law gave me this frightening book as a gift.
To read it is to walk into the ultimate nightmare of mankind's inhumanity to man.
Given in excruciating detail are the tortures, "medical" experiments, starvations, sickness, beatings & horrendous murders that made up the daily lives of the victims of the Buchenwald concentration camp.Eugene Kogon did not set out to write a sensationalist account in order to shock and inspire pity.
He only wanted to tell what he experienced and exactly what he saw in the camp.
And this is exactly the way the book comes across to the reader.
It is almost like reading a court testimony.
While sad, it could not equal how disturbing "The Theory and Practice of Hell" had.
It was so dispassionate, so cold, so matter-of-fact that it made Wiesel's experience seem like nothing.After we read "Night" the class, each student individually, entered a writing contest about the Holocaust.
I read something two years ago that blows this out of the water.""The Theory and Practice of Hell" needs to be read by the modern generation.
If you're thinking about reading it, do so.
It will change how you think and it will make your life seem precious.
There seem to be two groups – those who read it out of a sense of moral responsibility, and those who read it for, as the back cover puts it, “gruesome fascination.” I don’t think I quite fall into either camp.
I wanted to know what I was picturing when I imagined concentration camps.
Sorry if that sounds naïve – but this book, more than any I have read, filled that vague void with concrete experience.
Kogen’s rhetorical flourish allows his book to be more than documentation.
He feels no more sense of personal responsibility.
Kogon's book is a clear analysis of his experiences at Buchenwald, detailing the lives of prisoners and SS soldiers, the psychology of the incarcerated and the incarcerator and the attempts at survival made possible by a certain unity between the victims. It gives numbers, dates, stats, but it also gives you the personal judgement of Kogon, who was a prisoner himself for six years. It is written with a steady hand, whilst never forgetting that it discusses a shaky subject. Definitely worth the read for anyone interested in the period of the 3rd Reich.
An excellent first-person account (as well as third person analysis!)of the process of dehumanization and murder put into mass production in the Third Reich. All the reasons WWII should have been fought are here, as well as, all the reasons people ought to just give it up (war, exclusionism, and genocide)and get a life instead of thinking they can blink away an entire culture they disagree with. This book by Kogon, and Viktor Frankl's book Man's Search For Meaning, are of the same nature.Human dignity is something worth fighting for. You will well agree by the time you're done.
I bought this book a long time ago. I decided to read it over the summer. Not sure why? The whole thing was pretty gruesome, not for the faint of heart. The most interesting thing about the book, and something worth returning back to, is the psychology and characteristics of the SS. A brutal bunch, yes, but also a brutish bunch.
Sicherlich wurden viele Bücher über den Holocaust und die grausamen Zustände in den Konzentrationslagern geschrieben die doppelt so lang wie dieses Buch sind und gefüllt mit Zahlen und Fakten in einer fast schon steril wissenschaftlichen Art. Aber einen intimeren und den Geschehnissen näheren Bericht wird man so wohl kaum noch einmal finden, was wohl auch der traurigen und ernüchternden Tatsache zuzuschreiben ist das der Autor selbst seit 1939 im KZ Buchenwald inhaftiert war.

What makes this book unique in the literature of the Holocaust is it's proximity in time to the actual events. When the US Army liberated Buchenwald in 1945, they asked a group of surviving inmates to draft a report for the military about what had happened in the camp. Eugene Kogon (a political prisoner since 1939) led the effort, and this is the result. It is written in the tone of a coroner's report dissecting the remains of a murder victim. It is one of the most horrifying books I have ever read.
This was not one of the better books about the holocaust. I found it difficult to follow. I knew this wasn't going to be a survivor story, and I thought I would really like it, but I didn't. The author talks about the nazis and their system of the camps. I had a hard time understanding some parts and some parts had way too much politics (which I have no interest in).
Often horrifying history of the holocaust that charts the rise of Heinrich Himmler and the SA/SS, and focuses on the Buchenwald camp. The title is a fair indication that the book is not for the faint of heart.
An intimate telling of the operations and inter workings of German concentration camps written by a political prisoner that survived five and a half years at Buchenwald. A must read for anyone interested in WW2 and Holocaust history.
Chillingly matter-of-fact. Not for the feint of heart.
Jews Not Necessarily Treated Worse Than PolesEugen Kogon, the author or this book, was a left-wing German political prisoner at Buchenwald concentration camp.
Kogon writes: “Many Jews, especially if they were not German, lived in the camps unrecognized—i.
The homosexuals incarcerated in the Nazi concentration camps have been magnified by modern gay-rights groups into some sort of systematic Nazi persecution of homosexuals.
Comparable to the diversionary activities in concentration camps, it was an attempt to carry on a semblance of normal living under the conditions of German terror.
Eugene Kogan wrote one of the most internationally acclaimed accounts of life in the Nazi concentration camps which was a best-seller in a time when sensational accounts proliferated.What the Gestapo and the SS termed "protective custody" was really nothing more than a living Hell of daily degradation, deprivation and grueling slave labor accompanied with regular beatings, whippings and other forms of torture.
Some of the objectives included improved sterilization methods, "cures" for homosexuality, typhus and yellow fever, bone, muscle and tissue transplant experiments.
as well as cold tolerance testing and testing for the effectiveness of various killing methods.Among the "concentrationaries", underground organizations were developed to facilitate communication and exploit opportunities to improve the chances of survival.
This is an evidence gathering report that was submitted by Eugen Kogon after the war and, as such, is quite dry. Lacking the more human element of other books on the subject made it, for me, less involving.As you would expect, each section of the book is laid out like a report, extensively covering an aspect of camp life. A lot of them are anecdotal and some speculative. Some have since been acknowledged as inaccurate.It is a good read, but I did not learn anything new and found it much less relatable than other books on the subject.
Fascinating and horrific but a must read lest we forget.
It was the most significant book about WWII when I was eight or nine.
One of the arguments used by the deniers of the Holocaust, whether those who claim it didn't happen at all or those who hold the less radical but really no less peculiar position that Hitler was innocent of it, is the lack of a written order.
No one involved either needed or wanted one.And while I'm throwing out tangents, here's another one:Much historians' sweat has been shed over the question of when Hitler (and Himmler and Heydrich) came up with the notion of killing all the Jews of Europe (in 1922?
To me, it seems pretty clear that from the beginning of his career as a demagogue, Hitler had a very clear idea that he wanted the Jews to GO AWAY.
This was one of the first books to try to explain the Holocaust as a total event to a mass audience, and it was appropriately written by a survivor, who had gone on to research the facts of the system he had suffered under.
Kogon was held at Buchenwald camp, which was a large camp mainly for political prisoners and "ordinary criminals" (although as he explains the camps were always composed of a deliberately mixed population) in the Western part of Germany.
In this, he probably over-reached himself somewhat, although his perspective on the inefficiencies, errors, and arbitrariness of the system bears some similarity to current estimations.
The Author gave real, honest insight on what goes on in a concentration camp, the complex system of one, not only with the SS but between the inmates as well.
i only gave it a 3 star, becuz for me it was a very hard read at times.
Yes, we think of those men, woman, children stuck in these camps, we feel for them.
to be thrown back into a 'normal" society, in many cases expected to just pick up where thier lives were left.
They have nothing, and "normal" for them.
It feels wrong to give this book a star rating, considering its subject. A good broad overview of the inner workings of a concentration camp from a survivor. Because the breadth of the subject is so large, this book would best serve as a compliment to other literature on the subject, perhaps volumes discussing the politics involved throughout this time period or biographies of the major players in the SS that Kogon briefly mentions. Overall, an interesting account for the basics on Buchenwald.
This is a very insightful book that is sometimes difficult to read. The details of the Nazi system around the concentration camps make this a must read. There are some parts that are just plain tough to read concerning the life of a prisoner and the SS disregard for anything that was right. The psychology of the prisoners, SS and Germany helped to understand to some degree how this all happened.
A very informative study published in 1946 by a German political prisoner about the inner workings of the Third Reich at the time of liberation. I thought I knew the story of the Holocaust but this book tells it all in horrifying detail. I actually can't believe I finished it. It's chilling just how evil man can be.
A personal account of Buchenwald concentration camp by Dr Eugen Kogon. He managed to deliver what he had experienced in the camp to the readers, the terrifying facts of the lives of SS and the prisoners. Worth a read if you are interested in catching a glimpse into the inhumane life in Germany Concentration Camp.
It took a little bit of time to finish this book, due to the difficult language used. It gives you a deep look at the system of the concentration camps and all the tragedies related. I found especially interesting the last part of the book speaking about the psychology of the SS soldiers, the one of the prisoners and the one of the German people.
Clear and insightful account of Buchenwald, told by a former longtime inmate. For readers familiar with the subject, the broader assessments weren't new, but I found this to be one of the most detailed and well-structured accounts of a camp as a whole that I've read. Very matt-of-fact and systematic, with specific anecdotes to illustrate day-to-day life.
I bought this one when I was stationed in (the old) West Germany. I wanted to understand how the Holocaust was carried out after visiting Dachau. This book painted a clear picture of a technologically advanced nation putting its knowledge to work in the service of evil. I loaned the book out and never asked for it back because it was so disturbing. Still is.
Read it when I was in 8th grade. I think this is one of the most comprehensive books about the system of the concentration camps. Very readable, it's so terrifying that one cannot really put it down.
