https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/807806.Dark_Universe
The above rating graphic provides a pretty good assessment of my opinion of the story...which stands to reason in a "DUH, thank you Col. Obvious" sorta way since I created it. Well, at the risk of raining down obvious all over you, let me add that this is certainly a book on which I would recommend you take a pass. However, for those of you SF completist, gluttons for punishment or members of the "I think Steve may just be full of shit on this one" club, here is a brief summary of the plot in c
The above rating graphic provides a pretty good assessment of my opinion of the story...which stands to reason in a "DUH, thank you Col. Obvious" sorta way since I created it.
FYI....a few more somethings that the people in this story have no conception of: interesting dialogue, well-developed or at least interesting personalities, exciting events occurring in the narrative of their lives, insight into the human condition or any originality.Anyway, not the best book I have ever read...sorry, seems like Col. Obvious just made another appearance.
When I first picked it up, the back cover said that the book had been nominated for the Hugo Award in 1961 and I was like......
This is a post-apocalyptic (nuclear war), underground world, and, as the title might just suggest, one in which there is maybe not so much light, but that does not mean that every other word coming from a character's mouth needs to be "Radiation this" and "Light that." To say nothing of substituting "period" for "day" in the context in which "gestation" means, more or less, "year." How could I not snicker like an adolescent?It all reminded me more than a little bit of the South Park episode in which the Otters and Ostriches and other warring atheist types would use "science" as a substitute for "god" in common locutions.
Long after a nuclear war, a Ruined Earth culture has evolved deep Underground, where the survivors' descendants live sightless in the pitch black. From daily routine through cosmological concerns, this culture is grippingly and originally conceived, though the book closes with a somewhat anticlimactic escape from darkness into a new age of "enlightenment".
it reads like a retelling of Plato's Allegory of the Cave, and from that perspective the all-knowing reader is dragged along as the ignorant cavedwellers are dragged forth into the light.Galouye spends tremendous time fleshing out details of life in the characters' strange world, where vision is forgotten, light is taken as a metaphor for divinity, and the history of the Survivors has been twisted into mythology.
The main character spends too much time in introspection and back-and-forth socialization and not enough in exploration and discovery.
He winds up hiding and fearful of his discoveries--again, the Allegory of the Cave--or in retreat, which made it difficult to maintain enthusiasm.
This book was on a "5 best" recommended list by Richard Dawkins (author of the God Delusion) and when I read his brief description of a story of a world of people forced to live underground as a result of a nuclear holocaust it caught my interest.
One aspect intrigued me specifically and that was the idea of someone living in total darkness and never having been exposed to light.
Also the tag of the word "Light" for God and "Radiation" for hell gets to be a bit old after awhile and it is excessively forced into conversations so the effect is too clever by half.
I read this book as a young adult in the 70s and the premise behind it stuck with me over the years.
While on holiday in New York I sheltered from the rain one afternoon in NY Central Library, where I came across a thick tome about the development of SF and a little research paid off with the details about this book.
This being the 21st century, online ordering meant that after a couple of clicks on Amazon and a wait of a few days, I had a second hand copy of the book in my possession.
After 30 years, my second reading of the book was not a disappointment.
Written at the height of the cold war, this short novel explores the possibility of post-apocalyptic humans having survived a nuclear holocaust by living in an underground world in which light is totally absent and primitive sonar is the only means of discerning surroundings.
Also populated by giant mutant bats, other humans who perceive their surroundings by other, mysterious means and the feared and misunderstood "monsters", this story does a fine job of creating a completely unfamiliar world and convincing the reader that it could actually exist.
This does nothing to diminish my appreciation of his abilities.
This is an absolute gem of a story, at a mere 180 pages it conveys more concepts and insights than a whole serious of stories by a lesser author! Organised Religion is especially highlighted as well as ignorance and lack of knowledge! Wonderful.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 5/5I really liked this from the opening pages to the very end.
This one belongs in the "idea book" category, and it is the world that brings such a delightful read.The story and characters seem to have been thrown in so that the world could be explored.
I think this one is best read without knowing anything about it(view spoiler)[, but for those who need to know something going into it, it is a very literal exposition of an old Greek allegory, updated for contemporary times (hide spoiler)].
Reminds me of: (view spoiler)[ Inverted World by Christopher Priest (hide spoiler)]
This is a great story about far-future survivors of the nuclear war living in the far depths below the Earth's surface.
The way the characters have developed their own religious dogma and customs based on limited knowledge of their history is fascinating.
I also liked the way the story got around the problem of conversing by saying things like "I hear" instead of "I see" since these survivors live in total darkness.
This may well be what it'd be like if mankind lived below the Earth, and away from light, instead of on its surface.
The world building is fantastic, the ability to hear the face if some one makes me want to be blind! The story on the other hand is a bit slow, but not to slow(like to the point of falling asleep). Plot was great, I have never heard a book like it.
Until now the community has thrived, reverting to a tribal hierarchical system, incorporating a religion based around the concepts of Light and Darkness, and involving the Demon Gods Strontium, Cobalt and Hydrogen.Recently however, the underground springs which support their manna trees are failing and strange creatures from beyond the borders of their territory appear and begin to kidnap the tribespeople.It’s a Classic Myth Structure.
Here it could be taken as a metaphor for the boundary between child- and adulthood, moving from the restrictive but safe boundaries of one’s parents into the open world, and unable to return to the darkness of the womb.It's a minor classic and highly recommended.
This is an amazing book; one of my favorites. Such a wonderful story.Some bits: ...and some remote recess of his mind dredged up memories of childhood teachings:What is Light?Light is a Spirit.Where is Light?If it weren't for the evil in man, Light would be everywhere.Can we feel or hear Light?No, but in the hereafter we shall all see Him.Rubbish! Anyway, no one could explain the word see. What did you do to the Almighty when you seed Him?[...]He was feeling an object dangling from the upthrust
...and some remote recess of his mind dredged up memories of childhood teachings:What is Light?Light is a Spirit.Where is Light?If it weren't for the evil in man, Light would be everywhere.Can we feel or hear Light?No, but in the hereafter we shall all see Him.Rubbish!
"Just like the Guardian's relic of Light Almighty!"Jared's memory resurrected more of the beliefs:So compassionate was the Almighty (it was the Guardian of the Way's voice that came back now) that when He banished man from Paradise, He sent parts of Himself to be with us for a while.
And He dwelled in many little vessels like this Holy Bulb.
Dark Universe has an intriguing premise poorly (or at least boringly) executed. It's about people who live in sealed, lightless caves after a nuclear apocalypse.I wanted a story about how these people, over generations, have coped with life in the dark. There is some of that, but then there is psychics and way way way too much time spent on the protagonist trying to find Light (which has become a religious concept in this world). For a short book, it was too long. I had to push myself through it.
An post apocalyptic allegory of an allegory that uses Plato's cave to address the search and painful consequences of enlightenment. Not recommended for readers sensitive to heavy handed religious criticism.
I read "Dark Universe" 30 years ago for a course in the Philosophy of Literature.This is unique book, one in which the language used by the characters plays a rolein the telling of the story.
Brilliant thought provoking book
Mit „Dark Universe“ bin ich in dieses Genre zurückgekehrt und obwohl das Buch über 50 Jahre alt ist, kann es auch heute noch faszinieren.Von der ersten Seite an werden wir in die Welt der absoluten Dunkelheit geworfen, in der Jared lebt.
Jared versucht verzweifelt herauszufinden, was zivven ist, doch da er das Konzept von Sehen nicht versteht, kann er nur erahnen, wie Zivver ihre Welt wahrnehmen.Und noch verwirrter wird er, als die echten, bösartigen, überlegenen Monster auftauchen, welche eine Waffe bei sich tragen, die alle Sinne benebelt und teilweise Menschen in Ohnmacht fallen lässt.
3,5 ⭐Video Rezension https://youtu.be/NCP1jandlAE
Bereits nach wenigen Seiten schafft es der Autor uns so komplett in seine Ideen zu involvieren das wir uns tatsächlich vorstellen können wie wir an der Seite Jareds durch eine ewige Dunkelheit jagen, sich vor uns eine Welt entfaltet die für uns nur noch aus Schalleindrücken besteht.
Da der Manticore Verlag aber als unabhängiger Kleinverlag sicher stärker auf seine Kostendeckung achten muss, und mit der Veröffentlichung eines nicht mehr so bekannten Autors hier sicherlich ein gewisses höheres Risiko eingeht, lässt sich dies meiner Meinung nach leicht nachsehen.
This author takes on a similar, almost impossible challenge of writing about people who live in total darkness, and who have done so for long that they've lost the cultural memory of light.
But one young man, who keeps his eyes open even in the darkness is determined to know and understand more about these accepted dogmas.
How do you find words to describe light for the first time of seeing it?I'm about 70% through this and although I don't enjoy world-building plots as a general rule, this one is particularly well done and interesting.
And when I put my hands over my ears I kept on hearing them."Jared Fenson lives in the Lower Level, and has no concept of light and darkness, since he lives in an underground world of caverns and tunnels and uses sound to perceive his surroundings, as do the inhabitants of the Upper Level.
The main living areas have echo-casters that allow people to hear their surroundings without using the click stones that they carry when they move around the tunnels.
A third group of humans in this underground world, known as the Zivvers, are descended from an single mutant outcast who was born with the ability to use temperature differences for thermal-imaging.
I read Dark Universe at the recommendation of Richard Dawkins.
All of which points to the fact that, whatever Dawkins’ other talents as a biologist and science communicator, his judgement regarding science fiction is open for debate.That’s not to say that Dark Universe is a bad book, the premise (which I can’t say anything about without revealing key plot points) is quite clever and so is the manner in which it is presented.
For those that are interested, the other sci-fi book Dawkin’s recommended was The Black Cloud by Fred Hoyl.
I haven’t read this one yet.
While this book is not a classic of science fiction it sure poses us with some interesting questions of we would perceive reality if we were unable to see.
This was specially interesting to me because having heard of the case of a man who "recovered" () from blindness through medical procedures his understanding of the world struck some vague parallelism with the experiences described by the main character of the book.
As a novel probably this is not a fantastic literature work but if you liked Jose's Saramago "Blindness" you are probably going to have a good time reading this book.
Un romanzo che non risente affatto del tempo che è passato dalla sua prima pubblicazione.Ancora attuale, scritto bene, originale sia nell'impianto narrativo sia nelle invenzioni che sorreggono la trama.Le uniche note negative, forse, sono lo "spiegone" finale, senza il quale il romanzo non perdeva nulla della sua efficacia, ed il fatto che il protagonista sviene un capitolo si e l'altro no. Quest'ultimo è un escamotage che finisce per essere prevedibile e quindi fiaccare il ritmo narrativo.
I've always been drawn to books that start with the premise "What if...". This book is no exception. Galouye displayed in Dark Universe a typical pulp lack of character development; however, this is belied by a Platonian "shadow people" thematic. Other reviews I've seen since reading the book often contain "spoilers" and I'm truly glad that I didn't read them first. It would have taken away some of the mystery if I had understood more of where the book was leading. A thoroughly enjoyable and fairly quick read.
Interesting premise but by the end I was left unsatisfied and filled with question like, if they had the technology to amplify sounds using a machine, why had no one ever taken some of the rocks and plant material durable enough to make clothing out of and start a fire. It's the little things like that which completely ruin the immersion process. Still, I stuck with it to see how it turned out and while I don't wish for the few hours of my life back that I spent reading this novel, I highly doubt I'll ever revisit it either.
I had assumed this would never re-emerge so did not expect to ever read this. Dan Galouye wrote about different perceptions of the world and how those perceptions changed the nature of the world. Perceptions and conceptions were big in the sixties and seventies. but I thought his novels had died with the zeitgeist It seems I was wrong.[return][return]Into a world of darkness comes a new phenomena "silent sound" How will people cope with it.
I decided to read this because I heard a podcast interview with Richard Dawkins, in which he says this is one of his five favorite books. I had never heard of it before - but it is good. A civilization which lives underground darkness, where there is no sight but people hear the reflections off walls and the faces of people. The world-building is excellent and the plot is chilling. The main flaw with the writing is that the wording gets repetitive.
Science-Fiction178 pagesHugo Award NomineeA post-apocalyptic world, where people have survived in caves. They have retained bits of human history as myths and legends. They have evolved to use their ears instead of their eyes because of the darkness in the caves. Other human survivors have found their colonies and want to bring them out of the caves and into the light and life on earth again.
