https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3977.Endymion
Martin has an impossible mission, save his "niece" Aenea ( a late friend's daughter) from being eliminated by the Pax, and the Church, the 12 -year -old, will be a threat to them in the future, she is some kind of enigmatic messiah, arriving soon, in the Time Tombs, where the killing machine, the unstoppable, The Shrike's home, is located, but has not been seen for centuries...A flying carpet, right out of an Arabian Nights fantasy will greatly help Raul, and his new companion, Silenus's former servant, the blue man, A.
And also The Shrike, but we won't say much about him other than to say he's still as efficient a killing machine as ever.While not as pants-shittingly awesome as the first two books, Endymion was still an engaging read and doesn't tarnish the memory of the first two.
Bettik visit some exotic former Web worlds, undergo quite a few harrowing experiences, and wind up in a good place to set up the next book, Rise of Endymion.As engaging as I found Aenea and her people's travels on the raft, I somehow found the bad guys, de Soya and the rest, to be a more interesting cast.
Raul had refused to bow to Church authority and accept the cruciform so he’s an outcast and seems like a good candidate to keep the mysterious Aenea out of their hands.
Bettik and the intervention from the deadly entity known as the Shrike, Raul and Aenea escape and begin a journey between worlds that is supposed to enable her to fulfill the destiny the Church is terrified of.This book is an interstellar chase story with the dedicated de Soya hot on the heels of the fugitives as they run from planet to planet.
Rising from the ashes is the Pax, an all-encompassing totalitarian regime founded by the remainder of the Catholic Church; ruling with the help of the strongest armada in existence and the power to provide its faithful followers with eternal life…This third book in the Hyperion Cantos saga takes place centuries after the other two, and it opens up with a ton of questions.
Now the Church sees her as a threat that must be dealt with by any means possible, and while she journeys across the universe to find out what she is actually supposed to do, the agents of the Pax are hunting her.While Aenea is the main character of the book, she is actually not a POV character.
Stop!
If you've read Hyperion and Fall of Hyperion, stop there.
The series does not continue.
Pretend like these two books (endymion and rise of endymion) do not exist.
On the other hand, if you haven't read hyperion, go read it.
It's great.
Really good.
One of my favorite books.
Amazing.
But endymion takes a huge step down.
After Fall of Hyperion, you're probably hungry for more, but trust me, it just has to stay that way.
Some of the mysteries just have to be left as mysteries.
Endymion and Rise of Endymion are not worth it.
(But Hyperion is awesome.)
The book basically concerns Aenea’s journey with Endymion and an android named A.Bettik via a series of farcasters (teleportation portals).
One of the most remarkable things about the first Hyperion book is that Dan Simmons did a kind of virtuoso performance by writing in several different styles of sci-fi subgenres and other genres, including space opera, hard sf, soft sf, military sf, cyberpunk, hard-boiled crime fiction, and even literary fiction.
Simmons incorporated the more fun elements of the previous books, weaving them into this grand and tremendously entertaining adventure of science fiction.
The Worldweb and the mysterious Shrike creature add excitement to an already great story.Almost 300 years have passed since The Fall, and Earth apparently, but not conclusively, no longer exists.
The Worldweb and the Shrike creature are around, yet the only thing standing between complete control of everything by the military arm of the Catholic Church, PAX, is an 11 year old girl named Aenea, and Raul Endymion.
Whether a science fiction reader or not, if you enjoy getting lost in another world, this is a good book for you.
"If there is a God, I thought, it’s a painkiller."- Dan Simmons, EndymionEnjoyed it, just not as much as Hyperion and The Fall of Hyperion. This is the equivalent of the Return of the Jedi for me. Still buzzing from the first two, but not as good as the first two either. There are certain parts I enjoyed and somethings that just seemed a bit overdone. I'll review more later.
Hoping that the fourth book picks the series up again in a big way.The start of this book was really frustrating and slow with lots of bad stuff being piled on the protagonist (in fact it reminded a bit of this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ngYA...
Having read the Riyria prequels just before starting this I had been hoping for some Royce style fucking people up on a revenge mission but he pretty much completely forgot about the whole thing.
The world-building in the first 2 was among the most vivid and unique I've read and I was really looking forward to seeing how the events of the second book would effect the inter-planetary society that humanity had built.
In Endymion, there are but a handful of new concepts and almost no movement in the derivative and contrived storyline.
Another common sci-fi problem present here is the needless technicality of his metaphors; non-technical situations are described via science-heavy references that break the flow of prose.The only reason to read Endymion would be to get to The Rise of Endymion; unfortunately this is like jumping into the frying pan in order to jump in the fire, as the final book is just as bad.
I must see these things in order to know what to think of them.Endymion begins with its POV character Raul Endymion, stuck in a prison that is to be where he dies, writing the events on this book in order to understand.
There is such diversity in the worlds that Dan Simmons imagines and combined with his beautiful prose, it creates multiple stunning worlds I can visualize.A thing of beauty is a joy forever;Its loveliness increases, it will neverPass into nothingnessEndymion had two POV characters, Raul and de Soya, the man the church has sent to capture the child.
Here, there are two main story threads, and they go together like a normal book, and there is only one plot, which is still pretty great and complex and makes you think, but still .
But it's ending is just an ending to what was going on in this book, and not the end of the overarching story of this duology, and of the four books as a whole.Endymion actually picks up 300 years after The Fall of Hyperion, so I guess technically you don't have to read the first two books in the series* if you're curious, but I really wouldn't recommend it.
This book focuses on the story of Aenea, the child of Brawne Lamia and the John Keats cybrid, and her traveling companions as she seeks to travel to an unknown destination and evade the capture of those who seek her end.
Raul and Aenea both proved to be interesting and likable characters.
I found Father De Soya to be a bit less likable a character, but his POV segments remained interesting.
I was glad to see Simmons expand on some interesting aspects of the earlier books that I felt were underutilized.
That said, I felt the first couple of books in the series suffered from similar dull spots.
This is the third book in Dan Simmons's "Hyperion Cantos." Since it's the first book of a second duology, you could start reading with this book, since the entire universe is pretty much introduced anew, but there are so many references to events that took place in the first two books, now history in this one, that you will probably feel like you're missing a lot.At the end of The Fall of Hyperion, the Hegemony of Man was falling, due to the attack of the Ousters (view spoiler)[who weren't really Ousters but constructs of the TechnoCore (hide spoiler)].
The "Fall" has occurred some two centuries ago and the Hegemony (a far-future conglomerate of multiple planets) is now run by the Pax, enforced by the "miraculous" resurrection symbiotes discovered by Father Lenar Hoyt in Hyperion.
Raul Endymion lives on the planet of Hyperion and is hand selected by Martin Silenus to go on a quest.
He is to protect and escort the child, Aenea (the future "messiah") to her final destination somewhere in a far-flung solar system.
I know that the next book in the series, The Rise of Endymion discusses moral and ethical issues related to the future of humanity but in this book, there is the one overarching theme of love.
6.0 stars. On my list of "All Time Favorite" novels (as is each novel in this incredible series). One of the few series IMHO that rivals Dune for scope, writing and imagination. Simmons is a master. Nominee: British SF Award for best novel.
Even YA sci-fi like Ender’s Game is far more interested in the psychology of a young genius or children in general than in space battles.More to the point, though, this entire dichotomy – adventure story OR science / depth / complexity / ideas – represents a fundamental misunderstanding of how science fiction operates.
Perhaps more importantly, it made me EXCITED to explore both new sci-fi stories and non-fiction on AI and indeed excited about the possibilities of adventure and science in the future.
My reaction to this book after reading #1 and #2:My god, for the sake of all that is good and holy in this imperfect world, DO NOT read this book.Never, I mean literally never before in my life, have I been so in love with an author to be so let down.I don't even know.
This might sound a little melodramatic, but reading this book honestly put me off reading scifi for months, so crushing was the blow.
I haven't recovered yet.I don't even know how to critique this book.
Por el otro, el Padre capitán Federico de Soya, usando un tiempo presente y un estilo que conlleva mucha más acción.Este volumen, al igual que ocurría con Hyperion en su momento, es la antesala de lo que vendrá en El ascenso de Endymion, como si se tratará de una gran introducción.
Tengo muchas ganas (y a la vez no) de ponerme con el último volumen de estos impresionantes Cantos de Hyperion y saber cómo Simmons se las ha ingeniado de nuevo para atar todos sus cabos y concluir su historia por todo lo alto.
Wow-I have a new favorite!I truly loved this book all the way through.
Have you ever read a book where right away you just knew you were going to love it, and tried to read it real slow so you could savor it?
Some of the weak points of the book are1.The story seems to be going no where.2.Flat characters.3.Deus ex machine syndrome.Let me elaborate on the above points1.The story seems to be going no where.The book definitely starts strongly when we are introduced to the lead character in the series Raul Endymion, we are also given his background story and shown the circumstances due to which he has ended where is now.Simmons uses the solid world initially and some of the pilgrim characters from the previous books also make a comeback, but once this is done the chase starts then actually the problem with the book starts.This book should have been aptly titled Hitchhiker's guide to hegemony because our protagonist seem to travel through travel different planets for the heck of it, without giving us the reader any motive for this travel.
It features a largely new cast of characters, and the climatic events of the previous book are so far-reaching in their impact (the closing of the far-casters, end of the hegemony, disappearance of the Shrike, rise of the Pax thanks to the cruciform, etc) that Simmons has created a very new and different galactic milieu in which to frame his equally complex and elaborate space opera epic.
Just like the first two books, Endymion is only one half of the story, so you must be prepared to commit to reading both books to get the full vision as Dan Simmons intended.
Centuries after the events of  The Fall of Hyperion , and three and a half years after I read that book, Endymion takes place and I read it. I had actually forgotten that there was a book between this one and Hyperion; I described this as the second book in a series when friends asked me what I was reading. Oops! And it has been so long since I read the first two that my memories of the series were distant and vague.That proved not as much of a barrier as I worried it would be. I’m still trying
Once Simmons introduces Father Captain de Soya and the hunt for Aenea, however, things pick up considerably.
Though the TechnoCore’s role in this book is greatly reduced, Simmons reminds us that the existence of AI is a thorny existential issue for humanity.In some ways, this book feels like filler between the conflicts begun in The Fall of Hyperion and what will hopefully be the resolution in The Rise of Endymion.
I still enjoyed it, though, and heartily recommend it to those who read the first two books.My reviews of the Hyperion Cantos:← The Fall of Hyperion | The Rise of Endymion →
Endymion by Dan Simmons is a Science Fiction novel on a grand space opera level with a very personal and detailed feel to the characters.
There is a small selection of continuous characters throughout the book; Raul, Aenea, the android A.
After the events of the last book and the intervening 274 years there are many places and societies that have changed.
In Summary: An amazing SF novel with good characters and impressive world that manages to stay faithful to the world and feel of the first two books.
Endymion started great.
The plot was nicely linked to the other two books and the whole idea of 'what message will she deliver' was interesting.
But the more i read the less i liked.
The 'message' the girl is carrying isn't explained until toward the end, which is too late because by then i was ready for the book to end.
The main character, Raul, isn't the easiest person to like as he starts to become whiney and is overshadowed by Aenea.
I would have liked more from Father De Soya as his mission is more interesting than Raul's.
Whereas with the one and five star books you can just go in with emotional guns fucking blazing and just be easily inspired to new levels of moon-eyed adulation or derisive, incendiary rhetoric and all that good stuff that we humans love.See what I mean?
I mean...this is still Dan Simmons writing these so I'll take a long space chase in the Hyperion universe over most other books out there.Just setting up the world and characters of the book to someone who didn't read the first two novels would be spoiling a ton of shit for them, so I'll avoid them in this review.
I'm sorry, resto de mis libros pendientes, pero necesito saber cómo termina todo.
It's less so when one considers how brilliant and creative the first two books were, chocked with plot and heavy on characterization, while Endymion reads more like the action-adventure prequel to a much cooler, satisfying Rise of Endymion.
The explanations for a lot of "wait a minute...what?" moments in this novel don't come until the end of Rise, and even though that was also the case with the two Hyperion books, this wait seems much more protracted.I consider it the Hump Book of the series, in a lot of ways.
Seriously, how can someone write such an incredible first book and then go so horribly wrong from there?
The pace is slow and bogged down and there is a ridiculous amount of time spent talking about packing and unpacking and preparing to go on a mission and preparing a trap.
I think this is Simmons painful way of attempting to build suspense.
He creates these incredible worlds and spends no time really exploring them, and they are boiled down to simplistic nothingness.
I think I'm done with Hyperion.
However I want to emphasize that the first book is still an amazing read and COMPLETELY worth reading.
In fact, many of mysteries of the first two that I sweated over are in fact explained (or, well, pretty much!) in the final two books.I enjoyed "Endymion" immensely in part because the astonishing intricacies of "Fall of Hyperion" are lacking here, replaced by a more straightforward chase through farcaster portals/new worlds as condemned-to-die Raul Endymion and soon-to-be (apparently) messiah Aenea try to find Old Earth as incredibly sinister forces lust for their capture/death.Don't get me wrong; Simmons' universe is still unbelievably intricate, but the straight adventure -- through a water world, ice world, you name it -- saves the day.
