https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3146768-from-superman-to-man
This book should be required 5th grade and/or middle school reading.
Rogers, being a scholar, a historian, and a great writer creates a history text written in novel form.
He creates a scenario about two gentlemen, one white the other black,discussing stereotypes common to that era on a train ride.
With each stereotype asked about, the black gentlemen replies with a historical, scientific, anthropological, or statistical rebuttal that debunks the myth.
This book is wonderful for children to get a lot of the stereotypes, myths, etc that they believe or have heard answered or refuted.
Through an early 20th century conversation between an African-American porter and a racist White senator, Rogers masterfully teaches his reader about race in the world.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is designed to be the modern day sequel to Rogers’ book and an introduction to the little known facts about African history, science, monuments and medicine.
Rogers is a genius for dismantling racist notions in his book and takes the senator from believing that he is a superman to becoming a man.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is about taking the African, who has been disenfranchised and disconnected from his history, to truly understanding the rich nature of African people.
The first part is where I summarize the story, but don't give away the ending.The second part is where I review or explain what I thought about the book and why it deserved the number of stars I gave it.
Must read book on Race. Brief yet comprehensive thoughts that show how American conceptions of the sources of racial prejudice are plain stupid as well as insanely inaccurate. Read!
Should be mandatory reading for every young man growing up in the 'hood. Pride inspiring!
Through an early 20th century conversation between an African-American porter and a racist White senator, Rogers masterfully teaches his reader about race in the world.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is designed to be the modern day sequel to Rogers’ book and an introduction to the little known facts about African history, science, monuments and medicine.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is about taking the African, who has been disenfranchised and disconnected from his history, to truly understanding the rich history and culture of African people.
Through an early 20th century conversation between an African-American porter and a racist White senator, Rogers masterfully teaches his reader about race in the world.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is designed to be the modern day sequel to Rogers’ book and an introduction to the little known facts about African history, science, monuments and medicine.
Rogers is a genius for dismantling racist notions in his book and takes the senator from believing that he is a superman to becoming a man.
Herman Cain (by Maurice Miles Martinez) is about taking the African, who has been disenfranchised and disconnected from his history, to truly understanding the rich nature of African people.
FascinatingNot at all as simplistic as one might think, and sadly relevant; the arguments one sees in race relations have not changed much in the hundred years since this book was published.
The e-book has some unfortunate typographical errors, and some of the scientific discussion in the book is very dated- generally all has gone far more in favor of racial equality, and the need for racial equity.
Anyway, I could see his called preachy, but only because the polemic novel has fallen out of fashion.
This remains a useful look back at the evolution of a question which should long have been settled.
Informative dialogueThis is my first piece of literature this author, but it won't be the last. I liked that this story was staged as a debate of sorts and really incited personal thoughts on issues. This book was written over a hundred years ago, but still has much application today. It really puts America's progress over that time period in perspective.I also appreciated the mention of authors and literature throughout the story line. Most of them were added to !y list.
Great BookThe story is the same 100 years later. Our President is passenger #1, but he has surrounded himself with anti-Dixons, so he will never see the light.Could not have been more timely.
Superb BookI would recommend this book to every citizen of this the United States. It tackles race relations head on, without mixing words. It exposes the truth of supremacy. I am especially thankful to the homeless guy, who thought enough of me to recommend it.
Intellectually stimulating!Superbly written. Every single argument presented with the utmost care. Beautifully inspiring. Makes me want to meet not only the writer but his characters as well.
"I'll tell you, because political tricksters find it very much easier to corral the vote of the whites by an appeal to race hate."
This was a very easy read about a great early 1900's conversation between an "African-American" porter and a bigoted "white" senator, Rogers masterfully teaches his reader about race in the world.
Brilliant! Brilliant! Absolutely Brilliant! I heart Mr Rogers
Interesting readingPlenty of contradicting,a good look at both sides of the issue.Good reading and writing skills to prove major points,thanks! a bunch
Great book!It’s taken me some time to read this book. It’s truly a great read. I found it very interesting yet a little disheartening because the things talked about are still occurring 101 years later...
"From Superman to Man" by J.A. Rogers was okay. One of my cousins is really into the history of African-Americans and suggested that I read it...this was one of those books that I had to have a dictionary to get through, but, for the most part, the content provided was very insightful. I awarded it three stars because it wasn't a subject I was interested in, and the content did not hold my interest, but "From Superman to Man" by J.A. Rogers was nicely written...
This book makes me feel even more proud to be black ^_^ I'm looking forward to reading more books like this. I am also happy that the senator finally came to his senses to try to change things towards the end.
Great CommentaryWhile the rhetoric or better yet discourse on race here is fascinating, there is not much of a story. What is here, though, is heart-wrenching, informative, and necessary.
A wise mind can channel intellect regardless of insult. It was a brilliant book that brought the superior idea to ruin showing the similarities in all races. Still one of my favorite books.
AMAZING!
A wonderful book. J.A. Rogers is a master, and this book is as relevant today as it was when first published. Should be required reading, and should be much more widely available.
