https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13161497-the-girls-in-their-summer-dresses
Interesting title!
Interestingly, it seems like most people reviewing this book, like me, found it because they were reading AJ Fikry :)
I loved the writing and quick, witty dialogue between the husband and wife. The story was interesting but strange; I didn't particularly like it, but whatever. It was just a short story.
Read as part of the Storied Life of A. J. Fikry short story list.
I enjoyed it. It's very nice. Michael is so brutal. I feel sorry for Frances. She loves him and have no interest in another man, but Michael can't keep his eyes on her. What a foolish man.
Cute little ominous story.
At the end, I wildly hoped that Michael suffered from faux Capgras.
For his own good.
He sees a pair of legs, embodied in a whomever pretty girl.
Does he recognize his wife?
Or does he ravel in the presence of a beautiful impostor?Cause this is 2014 and we have loads of possibilities.
I'm almost drawn into a nostalgia trip towards ancient shores where the banality of things looked soothing.
To this story's time.
When the enemy had a name and it was Hitler, not a collection of alleged syndromes.Sometimes I regret not being prone to nostalgia.Again.
A cute little untethering story.
Bitter story about two spouses who discover their true selves one Sunday morning as they walk in New York City. I particularly liked the way in which Michael's mask shatters in front of his wife and the way in which, at the end, Frances decides to also put on a mask and ignore her husband's cheating tendency.
The language is a pleasure to read. Bittersweet short story.
The story is so realistic and unique. But I expected something at the ending
A very meaningless book
Every woman's nightmare..
I thought I was in for a story of a delightful afternoon in New York and instead I basically witnessed a marriage fall apart?
At the same time his wife is also very much making a choice to stay in this marriage and pretend like everything is ok so long as he never mentions this subject to her again.
Even though it was kind of dark the word choice and writing style itself was very nice and fun in a way.I think you might have to tweak a few things but the core story is still relevant and could have been written today.
Loved it! Shaw's ability to capture such an ordinary Sunday between husband and wife with such vivid detail and relatability. I like how the story ended with no true resolution...that's how life is. Sometimes problems just ARE
I read both versions of this story, and both are well written, but as a woman, I can't really get into it. The Giants version is even worse. That's my opinion. Read it if you have too is all I have to say about it. Not a fan.
Did not like. This guy needs either a shrink or a hobby.
This will help men to understand women's feel of jealosy.
Well written and interesting, though somewhat on the boring side. I enjoyed the unexpected ending.
read it on the internet
While I am reading the book I thought it doesn't worth to read, but I didn't regret not to leave it. In the end, it has one sentence that seems simple, but it says much of things for the whole story.
I picked this book off my library shelf today and didn't put it down until I completed it.
Irwin Shaw wrote this book in 1965.
It is the story of a man's life from being a boy growing up as a son of Jewish immigrants before WWI following his life until he is in his forties.
The plot centers around this young man's life and the relationships he has concerning his family's religion and learning about relationships with women.
Shaw does draw the story nicely to an end, but it takes too long for this to be done.

Gabrielle Zevin mentions many short stories in her novel The Storied Life of A. J. Fikry. The Girls in Summer Dresses is one of those stories and that is how I became familiar with the title.For the purpose of A.J. Fikry, the story fit perfectly. For my own taste, outside of its value to the novel, I thought it was OK. I didn't like either of the characters, so it is difficult to say that I liked the story, but it, certainly, held my interest for 4 pages.
A nice short story about how most woman probably have felt during some point in their life.Why do women have to be each others competition? And why do men that have no intention with one person promise an empty promise to someone and get married. Questions, questions, questions. I mean, it is very annoying and hurtful if your significant other would look at every woman that was passing by and he once looked at you like that but is no longer.
It's only a short story, but a 4 stars worth story.The lad has a roving eyes and I could've reacted like the wife. Maybe a bit more violent. What a pity for the wasted Sunday. Found it when skimming The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry. I think I'll read that next.
Why is this a classic again? Both characters seems so stereotypical to me, but maybe they were fresh at the time. The prone to be a cheating husband. The crying, yet lenient wife. They both drink to solve their problems. And nothing is solved. Then they continue playing their roles.
Short storyA.J. Fikry No 7
This was a great book to read with my 7-year-old daughter.
She knew too. Knew what the answers would be. But she asked anyway.Some boxes shouldn't be opened.
Mentioned in AJ Fikry
Qu'est-ce que c'est la vie, chaton?Men...
