https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1196030.Breakfast_With_The_Nikolides
The story is rather melancholic, which puts one in a thoughtful mood and I found the writing both spare and incredibly lush, which kept me reading on.The setting is India.
Not long into the story the attention shifts to their awkward 12 year old daughter, Emily and her love for her dog who dies under mysterious circumstances...this, strangely enough, becomes the focal point from which other plots satellite.Meanwhile, there is a forbidden friendship (romance?) between a Brahmin student and an Untouchable man of learning, a veterinarian.Tensions, accusations, repercussions, tragedy, possible reconciliation.
This is the fifth book-length work of fiction by Rumer Godden, published in 1942.
This year---2016---is my year to read everything that Rumer Godden wrote, in chronological order of publication.
I first read Ms. Godden in 1964, and she became one of my favorite authors at that time.
Rumer Godden was a prolific author of more than sixty fiction and non-fiction books.
Many of her works depict an India in the waning years of the British Raj, with tumultous change looming in the distance."Breakfast with the Nikolides" reflects another of Ms. Godden's themes...the wall that can exist between children and adults and the trouble that can cause.
I have only read about four of Rumer Godden’s adult novels, and I really can’t remember if I read any of her children’s books when I was a child, I may have read The Diddakoi – possibly her most famous children’s book.
Narayan’s friend and student Anil working towards his final exams is also drawn into the drama that unfolds.Breakfast with the Nikolides explores the dark and complex relationship between Charles and Louise – the truth of which is slowly revealed.
Rumer Godden’s sense of place is excellent, a small Indian town on the banks of a river, young idealised students and modern thinking men juxtaposed with traditional beliefs and suspicions.
My only quibble with this book was that Rumer Godden seems to write the same people over and over again. There is never any doubt who she is, either. Perhaps this sums up what I feel about her. She is not great at creating characters; she uses the ones she knows over and over again. BUT the style, and the beauty of the language, and the accuracy of the fine, detailed descriptions do make this a great book, like all her others. I loved it.
Plot comes from characters, end is mirrored in beginning, bitter, pungent quality to the settings, very sensual, strong sense of place. Complex relationships, expert use of scene and narrative.


Written early in her long career, the fifth of her twenty-four novels, Godden remarked that though the book was received without much comment, it came very close to her personal goal of “truthful writing”.This is one of the “Indian” novels, started in 1940 as Rumer, her two young daughters and their governess sailed back to India, where Rumer had already spent the majority of her life, to escape the potential German invasion of England at the start of WW II.Inspired by Rumer’s experiences living in the rural Bengali area of India as the daughter of British Colonialists, the vivid depictions of the setting and supporting characters were drawn from first-hand observation and feel clear and true.
I am still musing over the title of this one.
Rumer Godden's novels are always thought-provoking; this one is no exception.
The breakfast and the Nikolides seem to hardly figure in the story at all, so what meaning do they have to be chosen for the title?
Godden often refers to past events so obliquely that you have to read like a detective, combing the text for clues and meanings.
But it makes every word significant.
I would not count this as a favorite - I didn't enjoy it as much as many of her other novels, but it was interesting nonetheless.
I was all in on this book for about the first three quarters of it, and then in the end it just kind of falls apart. After that, it doesn't really recover until the last two pages or so. There's still much to admire in the writing (not surprising from the author of An Episode of Sparrows), and the mother-daughter tension between Louise and Emily is electric, but it's not enough to completely make up for the problems.
Beautifully written coming of age novel about a young girl, Emily, who returns to India with her little sister, Binnie and her mother because they had to leave France because of the Nazi invasion.
The mother, Louise, had left her husband eight years earlier.
She hated India and her husband , Charles, refused to leave.
Because of a very thoughtlessly cruel act, Emily becomes completely estranged from her mother and much heartache ensues before a sort of reconciliation occurs.
The author writes such wonderful descriptions of both the land and he characters.
Wonderful book.
I've always been an admirer o Godden's books and this is one of her best.
Setting India. It has been many years since I have read Rumer Godden, a gifted author.
A look into the Indian cast system, with a bit of To Kill a Mockingbird thrown it.
Boring. Couldn't get through it.
DescriptionsThe descriptions were so clear that I really felt I was in the settings. Could have used a little more dialogue.Made me more excited about going to India in Nov.
Part wonderful, part disturbing.
I find it difficult to rate this novel. The same as with her autobiography (“A Time to Dance, no Time to Weep”) I love Rumer Godden's brilliantly atmospheric descriptions of India but am not as enthusiastic about her characters. Her dogs are real, but her humans never seem quite fully realized, a bit stiff and awkward, with stilted dialogues/interior monologues. This is – potentially – a very good story, I just wish someone else (Somerset Maugham, maybe ?) had written it.
An interesting book which is set in India . I enjoyed to how the different sects and cultures perceive each other. At times I became a bit confused as it jumped from one person to another. On the whole a fascinating book but not an easy read.
I have to say that I don't tend to read culture/religion genre of books but this one seemed to of grabbed me.The setting was in India where Charles Pool lived, and his wife Louise came from France in the middle of the war with both of her children - Binnie and Emily.
I thought this book was going to be more about "Breakfast with the Nikolides" (as the title may suggest) but it seems to be more about India itself and more about the people (and dogs) who live there.
Breakfast with the Nikolides is an unusual book set in East Bengal, India in a small agricultural town.
Louise, 11 year old Emily and 8 year old Binnie have fled from France and impending occupation by the Germans.
Louise has many issues, she doesn't like the village, and she can not get along with Emily.
Emily adores Charles though, and he gifts her a dog, Don, which subsequently dies while she is at breakfast with the Nikolides family, the catalyst for the chain of events to come.I really appreciated the rich details in this book, especially the setting itself of which the author had first hand knowledge.
I regret that it has taken me so long to appreciate Rumer Godden, whom my sister has recommended to me more or less all my life.
Only having now lived in Pakistan for 3 years do I appreciate how well she writes about the Indian sub-continent.
I was given this novel as a present in 1984 and it has taken me 32 years to get round to reading it, and I found I could not put it down and was gripped from start to finish.
Difficult adolescent girls are also a specialty of Rumer Godden's, in my experience, and I assume she writes from experience, as it rings so true.
A deeply emotional and sensitive tale set in Godden's beloved India, following especially young Emily as she tries to learn how to grow up in a tense household fraught with hidden conflict between her estranged parents. The Blitz is happening all over Europe, and her troubled mother flees to India with her two daughters to the father they had never met. There, one fateful morning, Emily is told she is going to go to breakfast with the delightful Nikolides, a Grecian family that lives across the river...
I really like a story that unfolds like a puzzle, mixing hints from the past and insights from the future, the ugly and the beautiful, the vague and the specific. That is this book, one I think I will read again in the future with pleasure. I preferred it to Kingfishers Catch Fire, the only other Godden I have read to date, because Louise, though perhaps more toxic than Sophie, is also more fractured and therefore more understandable, whereas Sophie is just frustrating and annoying. The other characters are also more compelling and their stories better told.
THis book, written early in Rumer Godden's career as a writer in 1942, was not my favorite by her. The plot was quite similar to other better written books, such as "The Raj Quartet," by Paul Scott. An native born Indian is accused of some dark deed against a white female, in this case, a thirteen year old girl.However, the parts of the book about the two young girls and their exploring their lush Indian environment, are vivid in their detail, and seem more true. I had read this book in my teens, and rereading it was very enjoyable.
A long-neglected beauty, unforgivably and repeatedly out of print--like so many of Godden's novels. Reminiscent of Virginia Woolf and Molly Keane, and very akin to Forster's A Passage to India. Deep, dark; with a gossamer plot that slowly tightens around you like a spiderweb; packs an emotional wallop. Touches on all the best empire-builders-among-the-natives themes.
Not one of the top Goddens in my book, but not one of the ones I really can't get on with at all. The initial generalisations about 'Indians' were somewhat tooth-setting-on-edge but then she does go on to do well-differentiated and rounded Indian characters in the succeeding narrative.
I read this book on vacation and it was nothing short of amazing. I was so impressed by her economy of language, and perfectly worded descriptions of people and places. She didn't need to be verbose or flowery, she nailed it. So good!
A loss of innocence, a tragic death, the cruel vulnerability of human emotion and thought. A masterful and inspired work.
Not really about having breakfast with the Nikolides. Godden knows her India, but I keep feeling I've read versions of this before (Passage to India?)
I didn't like this as much as Rumer Godden's other books. I get the feeling it was autobiographical and the worse for that.
