https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91724.The_Secret_Life_of_Salvador_Dal_
I would ask anxious, desperate questions of my professor of painting: how to mix my oil and with what, how to obtain a continuous and compact matter, what method to follow to obtain a given effect.
Always in life my position has been objectively paradoxical—I, who at this time was the only painter in Madrid to understand and execute cubist painting, was asking the professors for rigor, knowledge, and the most exact science of draughtsmanship, of perspective, of color.It’s hard to know whether to review this as memoirs, fiction, or art, since it is all three.
He has a way with words that throws you off from your pure amazement of their exquisiteness, and hell, all that genius makes for a complicated read.
Now that word is certainly not worthy of being called exquisite ...)2) The book is comprised of 30 page stories about the wonder and majesty that is Salvador Dali doing a seemingly boring everyday activity during one of his "false" memories.
It is hard to mentally stomach this concept, though I was as good a sport as I could be.So, I cannot begin to explain my respect for how intelligent Dali was in his written word - a talent he often was not properly recognized for.
منحرف بعده اشكال...يقول لم اكن في تلك اللحظه لاستبدل مكاني حتى مع الاله...انطلاق تفسيراتي الخياليه المشابهه لانطلاق الخيول العربيه المستعده دوما و الممسكه نفسها بنفاذ صبر محموم و منتظره لسعه من المهماز الفضي...يفعل دوما عكس ما يفعله الاخرون...كنت اتابع حقل هلوستي...دعني اتعلم كل شيء لا يستطيع شخص اخر ان يعلمني اياه...دعنى اتعلم ما تستطيع الحياه وحدها ان تنقشه بعمق في جلدي...بفضل سحري الخاص اكتسبت القدره على احياء ما هو ليس حيا...لا شيء يرضي نفاذ صبري المجنون...
Actually there isn't a good argument I can come up with for not reading this book and learning something about the life of Dalí even if all he said was all made-up.
I am not sure why I believed this to be, but I was disappointed to find little of his sex life included here for my hungry appetite.I read this book in order to learn something I did not know, something that I could use in my own art perhaps.
But the book is definitely worth reading, if only to learn that even geniuses can believe in a Catholic god, or any god for that matter, which is something I doubt I will ever understand.
When reading this book one must take into account that Dali was a genius. It is an accompaniment to his work and thus surreal not formulaic. He reveals all his passions, fetishes and obsessions - and he worked on them constantly throughout his life. In the summer every year while staying at his summer retreat in Cadaques, he sent Picasso a postcard with the same message: In July neither women nor snails. What does it mean? What does it matter. Read this book
This is a fascinating book with brilliant illustrations (as youd expect) but its not a great read. Its a one-off, like the man himself, and while it swirls and dances and leads you all over the place, it shines but also obstuficates at will, making sense and willingly not, giving you brilliant insights and throwing you miles off course. Useful, now, as a historical artefact and interesting, illuminating companion to Dalis work, its also overlong, verbose and frequently boring. My favourite (prin
My favourite (printable) story was about Dali meeting Picasso:When I arrived at Picasso´s on the Rue de la Boétie I was as deeply moved and as full of respect as though I were having an audience with the Pope.“I have come to see you,” I said, “Before visiting the Louvre.”“You´re quite right,” he answered.I brought a small painting, carefully packed, which was called The Girl of Figueras.
After which we went up to the next story, where for 2 hours Picasso showed me quantities of paintings.
He kept going back and forth, dragging out great canvasses which he placed on the easel.
This book changed my life and the way I used to perceive the inner lives of visual artists. It flows like a painting, it's packed with surreal images and symbols that only Dali could relate to. it's a real memoir, nothing fake, nothing hidden, just insane, strange and beautiful like Dali was.It's number one on my list of favorite books.However, I do understand why some people might not enjoy it so much, it's not for everyone. one has to know a little about the artist and surrealism in order to grasp it.
This book is the polar opposite of a quick read... this book is a project that may take you months or years of on again, off again, reading. it is worth the struggle, but it should be read in small doses. Much like his art work, it is a bit overwhelming.
Dali domėjausi jau seniai, noras perskaityti šią knygą itin sustiprėjo apsilankius jo muziejuje, gimtajame Figueres miestelyje, Katalonijoje (beje šis muziejus tikrai vertas dėmesio, prie jo kūrimo prisidėjo pats autorius).
Pirmą kartą paėmus knygą į rankas teko ją padėti jau po kelių skyrių, supratus koks bus rašymo stilius ir minčių dėstymas supratau, kad tai ne ta knyga, kurią noriu tuo metu skaityti.
Iki antro jos paėmimo į rankas praėjo geri pusę metų, ja mėgautis pradėjau tik tada, kai supratau, kad tai ne ta knygą, kurią skaitysiu ir rysiu per naktis.
Bet tai buvo knygą, kur turėjau kartais save prisiversti paimti ją į rankas ir skaityti, tačiau vistiek ja mėgavausi.
Dalí on Dalí...and other topics...and "...Of shoes - and ships - and sealing-wax - Of cabbages - and kings -". Just the sort of book you would think he would write.
Like his painted images, Dali's style is bizarre in complex ways.
His life is very like his paintings.
In his book, he provides sketches that illustrate events and his perspectives on the episodes of his life, along with photographs.
He has a brilliant analytical mind and a style to do it justice.
He is truly myriad-minded.
Page by page, he fills the reader's head full of images and ideas.
His book makes the reader a convert or a more devoted convert to his art, which includes masterful color and ink illustrations of books, such as DON QUIXOTE, MONTAIGNE'S ESSAYS,and THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF BENVENUTO CELLINI, a masterpiece itself.
عجيب و مثير للجدل .. سريالي .. او هو السريالية زي ما قال على نفسة ..مغرور أو أكتر من كده شوية .. بس في وسط كلامة حسيت انه بيكافح بالغرور حاجة تانية .. بيحارب الهجوم على غموضه بالغرور .. حاجة كده زي النكوص عند الأطفال .. حاجة زي العنصرية المضادة .. المهم ان الكتاب عجبني .. و شخصية الراجل هاتفضل مثيرة
I learned more than I wanted to know in some ways and was utterly fascinated in other ways!Warning there are moments where there's def an argument for Dali being a rapist/molester/pedophile/incestuous instigator.But. . .he spent his life being and living in odd, messing with people's minds, making watchers question what they were seeing.It was good, but great for the odd. . .not a good recc for the normal.
At my second read, I still thoroughly enjoyed this book.
(And yes, second read means I didn't quite make in through on the first go.
Also, I believe the translator should be given his share of kudos in deciphering what many agree is pretty much a labryinth of words and phrases, but most importantly - fanciful albeit earnest embellishments.
I agree that its probably not for some readers and even that truth itself varies depending on whether or not one likes somewhat boastful storytelling, the artist, or, surrealism even.
As an artist bio, one has to accept the fancies he or she goes of on when it comes to telling a story.
One of the best books I've ever read, although I admit I read it believing it to be mostly real later to realize that it wasn't. But So entertaining. Salvador Dali should have been a writer, his writing is so well written, even for a translation! I gave this away awhile back to someone, and I angerly realize that they probably didn't READ IT!!!! Why do I keep doing this? I need to buy another copy.
Dali's illustrations and some brilliant passages almost pushed my rating to five stars, but several verbose passages had me drowning in verbiage, and made me think Dali was nuts, or just filling pages to fulfill his contract with the publisher. Overall, a wonderful, worthwhile read. I especially enjoyed his perspective on Paris, New York, his beloved Leget and Cadaques, and his thoughts on Europe during and between the two world wars.
Its what you want when you set out to read about a human its a self writ bio I couldn't believe it when i was reading he cuts himself on a small glass shot bottle he thinks that one of his hairs is at the bottom but it turns out to be a tiny crack he breaks a another kids violin and runs away as fast as he can anyway it was the best bio i've read ever He taps into the greater Cggggghe finishes his project and sses his examination sb
I wish every autobiography was this fascinating. You really feel as though you've entered the perversely complex insanity of Dali's subjectivity. This book is quite a brilliant anomaly of an autobiography; not to mention the delight of his lovely, fantastical prose. I am planning on reading this again.
Salvador Dali build this monument for his own talent and despicable narcisizm. His talent is undeniable, the artworks are speaking for themselves and this book is also one of his best creations. The writing style is surprisingly good and the whole books is fascinating. It is full of rich language and interesting facts from Dali's life. Enjoyable read for memoir and art fans.
This book was very unique, brilliant and beautiful as his paintings. Dali's bio leads to his childhood thru his age 37. This interesting and bizzare tale of how his captivated surrealism thru his art.  So I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in getting into the artistic minds of the masters. =)~
დიდი მადლობა გალას, მისი არსებობისთვის.შთამბეჭდავი ავტობიოგრაფიაა, განსაკუთრებით ბოლო ნაწილი. საოცრად კარგად ჩანს ევროპისა და ამერიკის ცხოვრების რითმის და ცალკეული ინდივიდის შინაგანი ბრძოლების დაპირისპირება.ძალიან დამაინტერესა, მეორე მსიფლიო ომის დასრულების და იმ საშინელი ფაქტების გახმაურების შემდეგ, რა დაემართათ დალის იდეებს...
wtf? now i know why dali said, "...i am drugs."
!يروقني أن تمتلئ فرشاة رجل وجعبته غرورًافمن يمكن أن يكتب عن عبقرية دالي أفضل من دالي نفسه؟
Książka była prezentem urodzinowym, dziękuję za sprezentowanie mi tak przemyślanego podarku!
Dalí, mi artista loquillo favorito.
This book is so pithy I just can't seem to get into it: I love it every time I pick it up, but don't want to disrespect it by not having ample time to absorb it. And the last year of grad school was certainly too sleep-deprived to lavish attention on it, and I'm still far from loyal book worship time. But maybe I'll put a dent in this Christmas vacation. That's how worth it the book is. He's hilarious. It also compliments my new surroundings: the shameless self-promotion is so L.A. Who knew?
Dali was a fantastic writer. Here is his autobiography from youth to the age of 30, tracing his ascent to fame. He includes anecdotes that would be interesting to anyone familiar with his work: his formative years in art school, the Surrealist Exhibition at the World's Fair, his inspiration for the melting watches... but those facts pale in comparison to his writing style, which is compelling in its own right. His intricately nested metaphors, extravagant vocabulary and vainglorious attitude makes reading a fascinating (if sometimes exhausting) experience.
One look at Dalai's paintings and you can see that he sees things in a different way. It also becomes clear in his auto biography that he sees things in a different way. But while at times I admired his absolute genius, in writing, his absolute sense of being a genius at times became a bit tiresome.Despite being an amazing man and an artistic genius, in his autobiography, he comes off as being a little bit too full of himself. But overall, a fascinating read.Dali was and still is amazing !
A great and unique book, by and about a great and unique man (to say the least). I recommend this book to anyone who want's to get a true feel for who Dali was, how his genius worked; his totally unique perspective on life. This book is not an effortless read, but it is certainly worth the effort, both for the value of its contents and because you will come out with improved reading skills, an enlarged vocabulary, and insight into a one of a kind perspective, that will definitely surprise you.
Where's the original book of this that I had with a painting inside dedicated to my Father...this is a slim Replacement for what I had when I was 12 years young....nevertheless...masterful and imaginative and frolicsome and insane!
