https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31087.The_Last_Boleyn
- English hardcover - Thanks Betty for the read - 🌷🌷🌷
A serious student of Tudor-era history might take exception to the historical inaccuracies, but if you merely want an interesting, fictional account of Mary Boleyn in particular, and the Boleyn family in general, then this is the book to read.Harper's novel spans 2 decades, and covers Mary Boleyn's life from a young girl living at Hever Castle, to the day that her sister, Anne, is executed by Henry VIII.
Mary, as history tells us, was the Boleyn that shared the bed of 2 powerful kings and paved the way for the power-mad Boleyn family's rise to fame and fortune.
Great story on Queen Ann’s sister who was also mistress of King Henry viii for several years before he married Ann. There’s more information now than 20+ years ago on Mary Boleyn. She is a very interesting historical figure. I wish there was more known about her. 3 stars because - the dates! Maybe that’s all that was known when it was released...for whichever reason they were a bit off.
I have to credit the success of Philippa Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl with prompting many of those re-releases, especially this novel.The Last Boleyn tells the story of Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister - just as The Other Boleyn Girl professes to.
The book follows her life from 1512, when she is 8, home at Hever, until the deaths of Anne and George in 1536 - ending at Hever, also.
The fact that King Henry continued to favor her (discretly) with the education of her children and also the monies from the same of her childhood home also support her being an important part of history.
In the story, she watches as Henry puts her aside for her younger sister Anne, and struggles to assert her own independence in a time where that was simply unheard of.What I liked about this book is that it wasn't depressing.
I found myself wanting her to find her happiness.I thought this book did a great job of telling the Boleyn story without focusing on Anne, although the portrayal of Anne was pretty good - she was that classic neglected little sister who overcompensated, and it became the death of her.
Both books are about Mary Boleyn, sister of Anne, but whereas TOBG is exciting and dramatic and veers somewhat away from the truth, The Last Boleyn is softer and subtler and seems to be a truer story.Mary was effectively pimped out to the French and English kings by her ruthlessly ambitious father, until her uses ran out and her sister took over.
This does not in any way lesson the full impact of the Boleyn's heady rise and drastic fall though - it actually makes it more moving as we see Mary's family implode through her eyes.A very good book, both as a swoony and sizzling love story (mmmmm Staff!!), and as an infamous time in history told from a different angle.
I have that ingrained aversion to lusty title's that shelving Harlequin novels in a book store left me with !"The Last Boleyn" is the tale of Mary Tudor - five years a mistress to Henry VIII before Anne; faithful wife and mother after Henry.
Nothing I have read over the years has really change that opinion - even taking the vagaries of that time period into account.Mary was sent to the French court at an early age - as lady-in-waiting to Henry's sister Mary during her short lived marriage to the aging French King.
I have lost track of the number of times that I have read this book.
I remember the first time I was 15 years old and I am still in possession of my original hard copy version of this book (30 years later)when it was released as  .
The story never grows old for me and was one of my first Historical Fiction books and definitely the first Karen Harper book I ever read.
This prompted me to buy and read pretty much every book she wrote back in the early to mid 1980's.
I remember the first time I was 15 years old and I am still in possession of my original hard copy version of this book (30 years later)when it was released as 
Tudor England is one of my favorite time periods but thanks to Karen Harper I also love the Medieval time period of the Plantagenets, The period of the Stuart Kings and even when she branched into Scottish history.There have been quite a few books about Mary Bullen/Boleyn over the years.
I love the idea of Mary as not being just a beautiful, empty headed slut.
And when I read TOBG, I ended up hating her even more just because Philippa Gregory painted her in this innocent light and emerged her as the perfect Boleyn.But then I decided to give this book a chance, and it did what no other book has ever been able to do - it made me sympathize with Mary.
(I don't know if this scene has any historical merit to it, but I loved it nonetheless.) I sped straight through this book, hardly wanting to put it down.
I have been interested in the Boleyn's story for a few years and although there are many book on Anne, there are very few on her sister, Mary, of course, because she was not as important.
This book changes that.
It shows how truely important Mary was in the fate of her family.
Like the Other Boleyn Girl this book is about Mary, told from her point of view, but The Last Boleyn is so much more historically accurate and, I have to say, I enjoyed it much more.
Any lover of The Other Boleyn Girl should read this.
Even though he met Mary a lot earlier than he probably actually would have done, I found I could easily forgive this liberty as it made the love story so wonderful.The few things that stopped me giving this book 5 stars - Harper giving Anne Boleyn 6 fingers...I have very little patience for authors that do this, we know she didn't have 6 fingers and it doesn't add anything to the story line and always just makes me impatient!
This book is a little bit lighter on the political happenings of the time than others (even TOBG), probably because it is always focused on Mary, but it is a wonderful read.
That is was my first insight into the world of the Boleyns and a nice side-step into the thoughts and feelings of Mary versus the over-abundance of Anne text available.
There were some historical errors with dates but historical fiction autohors tend to play with these a little to keep the story going (or we would be reading 600 page books regularly).
After reading this book, I grew to love Mary and instantly thought of Anne as merely a "slut" so perhaps it resulted in some anti-Anne bias but this didn't last because I have since read tons of Anne literature.
I loved this book, I enjoyed this one as a seperate version of the story and I didnt feel like I was constantly comparing it to the other boleyn girl.
This one gives you more of the back ground story to the Boleyn family and their lives prior to Henry the Eighth and his court.
For me the love story between William and Mary Stafford will stand the test of time because history shows us to my mind that what ever the events surrounding them they were always a love match.
Passion's Reign is the original title of Karen Harper's 2006 book The Last Boleyn.
Published in 1983 and marketed as a romance novel, Passion's Reign tells the story of Mary Boleyn.
Unlike the more famous The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory, Harper does not allow Anne to take over the story and remains focused on Mary (of course Anne is in the book though).
For the most part, it seems to stick fairly close to historical facts with the major exception of the romantic plotline which has Mary and William Stafford (Staff) meeting much sooner than they probably really did.
Staff is quite the 80's romance hunk!
I have always been fascinated by the story of Anne Boleyn, but this book, well researched, featured her sister. I kept googling people and castles that were mentioned to be sure they were authentic , and they were .
This book starts slowly but the plot really thickens after the first 1/3. It is well written and historically accurate (as historical fiction goes). Well worth the 600 page read.
Ms Harper has made Mary the central character in a marvelously historically accurate portrayal of the period, beginning when Mary's fathers ambitions send her to the French court at age eight, an act that begins his use of his children to climb to favor with the Tudors and ending when two of his three children are beheaded at the Tower.Mary, the only child left alive has been pimped by her father, first to the French king and then to Henry VIII.
I heartily recommend this book to all those who love history, particularly the lusty history of Tudor England.
This book was full of historical inaccuracies to the point that it became difficult to read and infuriating. The story felt incredibly choppy and the characters weren't believable. Despite being based on real people they lacked any depth or consistency. I honestly think I am done with this author. I have read two of her books now and they just do not impress me.
I loved this book because there was so many things that I did not knew about mary and anne boyorn.
they sure led a very different life from one another but they still loved each other in the end .
i thought the author did very good job making sure to keep with the facts and yet make a good story out the book .
i will be reading more books by her in the future .
this one of the better books that i have readed about the boyons .
The book starts off with Mary as a little eight year old girl about to be sent off to Europe and then traces her life throughout her time at the French Court, as Henry VIII’s mistress, her marriage to William Carey and then her love affair with William Stafford.
However by setting her meeting with Stafford during her time at the French Court Harper is able to provide the reader with a true love affair between Mary Boleyn and William Stafford that spanned over two decades.
This was a solid novel. Some of the history is a bit off, including the date of Anne's arrest and imprisonment, but I think the author has stayed relatively faithful to the truth in her telling. This novel is truly Mary's story, and highlights her search for her own life outside of what the Boleyn ambition would want for her.
Mary is practically a fictional character, innocent, naive and romantic, while her sister, Anne, is selfish and reckless, and depicted as something like a bimbo with only good looks and sexual prowess.
-Most unforgivable of all -- Henry VIII warns (or hints, actually) Mary of her sister's impending fall, tells her to leave court, and essentially says that he made a mistake and should have married Mary.
Nearly everyone remembers the story of Anne Boleyn and her fall from power in the court of Henry VIII.
Daughters were used as pawns (and even sex slaves) to gain important court positions for family members.
And this is the story of Mary Bullen and her greedy, power-hungry father, Thomas Bullen.
She is introduced to King Henry VIII and the story is repeated as she becomes his mistress for five years.
The king hides any potential "accidents" (i.e. pregnancies) that may occur during this time by forcing Mary to wed a favored courtier.
The book was obsessed with sex, and missed some wonderful opportunities to address issues of the times, such as religious changes, political currents, etc.
As for historical accuracy, I am not sure the author knew more than beyond who was whom during this time.
Perhaps I could have gotten one it if it was mentioned once, but the point was repeatedly resurrected by the author.Pleasant enough writing style, but perhaps a bit more adherence to the facts, and a bit less sex would have made it more enjoyable.
I have not had much good experience with historical fiction lately, so I was not very excited about this book given my interest in the Tudors and Boleyns in particular.
Harper makes some strange changes to the facts that I struggle to understand, since they did not add to the story.
Overall, I found Harper's style engaging, and she evoked some lovely images.
I do question her love for Stafford, who did not emerge as a very likable guy, but overall the historical figures given life by Harper were believable and engaging.
Here's a woman who was the older sister of one of the most complex and remarkable women of the sixteenth century, and yet was, in so many ways, by far the wiser of the two.I absolutely loved the story.
That aside, though, this was an amazing story that had me hooked from start to finish.I felt for Mary as she learned so many lessons the hard way (her 'relationship' with Francis was particularly heart-breaking, as was her near-constant longing for her father's love), and yet learning them enabled her to not be caught up in the fall of the Boleyn faction in 1536.
EXCELLENT READ!Couldn't put it down!
This book Austin and entertained in every way-from the history to the excitement to the love stories.
From the first page the characters in this book are real and so convincing that I lost quickly lost myself in the story.
I became so involved in this book and it's people that I realized I must read everything this author has created.
She manages to bring the story so much tho life than even after the last page I continue to think about all that I read.
I highly recommend this book-it is one ilk cherish and re-read over the years.
:)HIGHLY RECOMMEND!!!
This one was almost five stars. I've read a good bit of historical fiction but this one was more real for me. It was a well rounded story. Many books tend to focus too much on one aspect of the story. Knowing the history of this story it was cool to approach it from a point of view that is not normally covered. I believe people interested in the Tudor era would enjoy reading The Last Boleyn.
Never a dull moment. Quite different from the Other Boleyn Girl (I understand the historical differences so please none of that... I'm talking about the style of writing) A must read if you are intrigued by Royal court life and in need of great details.
I LOVED this book! It was amazing! =D Its so interesting how we, the readers, get a better view of what the entire Boleyn family was like and understand why Anne was so ambitious and stubborn to the very end.~Sachi <3
