https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106134.Bone_Vol_1
From what I understand, it was one of the first big comics to not use any narration boxes or thought bubbles at all.
Needless to say, this is a *huge* change from the 60's style of superhero comic where people were constantly flying around and thinking stupid things to themselves like, "It's a good thing I can use my freeze breath to stop this forest fire!" The first time I read it, I didn't know any of that.
I just thought it was a good story.
A lot of things I read from 20 years ago seem really dated.
There he meets a beautiful young woman called Thorn and her kindly cow-racing grandmother Ben. But danger looms on the horizon as the Lord of Locusts and the rat creature army are massing…I first read Jeff Smith’s Bone nearly ten years ago in the all-in-one black and white edition – a massive brick of a book at well over 1000 pages!
It’s not an encouraging start to new readers but I can assure you if you liked the Lord of Locusts bits, the series becomes almost all about that storyline after the first two books – the cutesy stuff and bad comedy drops off very quickly.
I read Bone way back in the early 90s when it was serialized in comic book form, before these gorgeous collections by Scholastic.
I recently revisited these and found them to have aged incredibly well.
Like the best narratives for young audiences, the adventures of the three cousins Fone Bone, Smiley Bone, and Phoney Bone resonate with adults as well.
Jeff Smith has created a timeless series that I hope to read to my children someday.
For now I'll make do with forcing it upon all of my friends.**If you don't believe me, just go to a bookstore and start reading it.
This book was only OK.
Also, I didn't like how vague it was in the beginning about them getting kicked out of Boneville.
Then, they all got split up somehow and then they all wanted to go back to Boneville.
I thought this didn't create a strong storyline.However, I started to enjoy the book more, around the last 30 pages.
The characters were more developed and I felt like there was actually becoming a plot.
This book ended on a "cliff-hanger," but not a strong one.My boyfriend and I are reading this book and the 2nd book for our monthly Couples' Book Club read :)
Beautiful aesthetics, a chilling and yet uplifting dark fantasy tale with friendship and adventure, and a tiny hero who readers can all relate to, Bone is one of the best graphic novels I have ever read.

Ohmygosh!Well that was fun! I'll definitely be continuing on with the series.
In any case, she and other kids love this book and rereading it several times to her over the last months has given me new appreciation for Smith's creation.Also, there's the whole colour thing to consider.
If we hadn't taken in the awesome danger Fone Bone is in by panel two, Smith drives it home by completely obscuring the three characters in the tumult of the falls' base.
And if you've already read Bone but it's been a couple years, you owe it to yourself.[Thorn's such a flirt.]The Colour EditionSeveral years ago, Smith worked with Scholastic to bring the book to a wider youth audience.
I first tried out Bone several years ago, and I just couldn't get into it. I decided to give it a second chance, because I've heard so much good about the series as a whole. The second time through, I liked it quite a bit more, but I still didn't love it. The Bones are cute and cartoony and I did enjoy that. Not really invested in whatever the bigger story is, though. At least not yet. I think this time I'm going to try to read the whole series and see what I think of it as a whole.
Fone Bone's wealthy and arrogant cousin, Phoney Bone, has been run out of Boneville by the angry residents and Fone Bone agrees to help him, along with their other cousin, Smiley Bone.
When a swarm of locusts sweeps through the valley they run for their lives - and suddenly Fone Bone is falling.
Together they make plans for finding Phoney and Smiley - before the rat creatures get them first.Beautifully drawn and presented, Out From Boneville is a delightful, imaginative, funny trip through a vivid landscape of chain-smoking dragons, talking possums, cow-racing grannies and scary monsters.
Out from Boneville is the first installment in the Bone series featuring Phoney Bone, Fone Bone, and Smiley Bone.
When the three cousins are run out of Boneville because of Phoney Bone's latest scheme, they get lost and separated in the desert.
I really enjoyed my first Bone book.
The characters are engaging, and the world is interesting.
Many reviewers have compared Smith to Tolkien in his world-building, and although I wouldn't go that far at this point, I can see why they say that.
It's funny, it's original, and I can't wait to find out what happens next!I would recommend it to kids in 4th grade and up.
Well, first of all we have the charming cousins,sense of humour, love,and a dragon.But there are mysterious events going on,and there are monsters,and something very sinister lurking in the dark.This is just the beginning of the story...I'd bought an original black&white version of this one a few years ago and that was quite lovely too. The way the story progressed rather quietly, with the panels just speaking for themselves...Now I'm reading the colored versions, I can't wait to read it all.
3.5*Aw I like this.
Na preporuku (i posudbu) došao sam do Bone stripa. Uopće nisam znao što mogu ili trebam očekivati. Zbilja nisam znao ništa o stripu. Dobio sam jedan prilično zabavan i pustolovni početak, uz prilično simplificirani stil, sve nacrtano crno bijelo, no istovremeno na takav način da svaka slika bez ikakvih problema odražava stanje likova, pogotovo njihove emocije.Sva sreća pa sam dobio knjigu u kojoj se nalaze sve pojedinačno izašle knjige tako da ću odmah nastaviti dalje, vidjeti kuda pustolovina vodi Bone društvo, njihove prijatelje (najbolji je crveni zmaj) te za sada prilično misteriozne neprijatelje.
After reading a run of dark graphic novels this was a fabulous refreshing change.
The characters are so cute and loveable in this fairy tale like story set in an imaginary land.
The tale is simple and the imagery almost childlike but I could not help being drawn in to their world.
A great entertaining funny comic book/ graphic novel, it had me right from the beginning and what makes it great is it is an accessible book for children right through to adults.
You can't help but adore these little characters!.
I'm reading this to Gray, so like a responsible mother I read ahead to try to gauge whether there's anything in this that he'd find troubling. So far so good! My kid has been a super graphic novel freak (but no he may not read Ex Machina no matter how hard he pleads his case) since he saw the cover of Saga Vol 1 and called it Monster and Love Had a Baby, so I'll call that so far so good as well.
This brought back memories! I used to read this as a weekly comic strip in the Ohio State University newspaper in the early 80s. Of course, back then, it was a black and white strip. The coloring is an improvement. The story is outstanding, and I'll be diving right into the next volume: Bone, Vol. 2: The Great Cow Race. :D
My 8 year old son received this entire series for Christmas and is flying through them. This one was very entertaining. Art work is great, too. I guess I have to read them all now to see if Phone, Smiley, and Phoney ever get back to Boneville.
A very good comic series for the child and adult in you. Just try it once.
Predivan strip. Malo fantazije, malo zmajeva i puno maste. U svakom slucaju predivan pocetak cele price.
I read this at the behest of some friends who, when I was declaring Garth Ennis’s Preacher as my favorite comic series of all-time, started singing the praises of Bone.
Perhaps nostalgia plays a factor; this book geared for the “all-ages” crowd, coming out originally in 1991.
When you know the WHO and WHY of the characters, it’s easy to care and become invested in what happens to them.
I already have the second volume in the series in my possession, and if the rest of books keep up the quality of this one, I intend to read it until the end.
Bone serisine güzel bir başlangıç oldu. Okumaya değer güzel bir seriye benziyor.
So very, very entertaining. I love the characters already and am looking forward to see how else Smith plays with fantasy.
I don't usually read graphic novels like this, however I have read all of the Calvin and Hobbes, For Better or For Worse, Zits, and Bucky the Cat. Bone, Out from Boneville, is the first volumes in the series.
The main character, Fone Bone, hangs out with his two misfit cousins, Phoncible P.
In volume one the threesome becomes separated and the story centers on Fone Bone and his adventures trying to find his lost cousins.
Phoney Bone eventually shows up and the adventures begin.
This graphic novel was entertaining, funny and a great read if you want to just sit back, relax and not use your mind for anything other than enjoyment.
By now I surely should have learned my lesson about jumping on the bandwagon of what everyone else is loving, but I always have hope that I'll be surprised so I go against my gut.
I read a lot of children's books, and I'm as immature as they come with probably the intellect of a grade-schooler at best.
I'd like to think this series gets better the further you get into it, but I probably won't be picking up another volume unless I've run out of things to read.
With characters that aren't very engaging and with its uninteresting plot, this is yet another series that leaves me baffled by the mass population's love for it.

I went into this book thinking I was going to hate it or at least feel like I was wasting my time, then before I knew it, I was somehow compelled to continue reading.
I don't really know.
I guess the story is decent, the characters are somewhat interesting, but there's nothing about this that really has made an exclamation point blink above my head.Regardless, I can't stop reading the series now, and honesty that's probably what's so entrancing about this book, it's so fucking readable.
It's crazy easy to follow, it's amazingly well paced, the illustrations are always on point and easy to comprehend, and the plot develops and concludes in very satisfying ways.
Bone didn't make it onto my radar until a coworker recommended it for my TinTin-obsessed eight-year-old cousin. realizing that I, too, am TinTin-obsessed, I decided to give it a shot.And, wow. Bone has the adventure of TinTin and the impeccable comic timing and sensibility of Walt Kelly's Pogo; in short, it's the funniest, most exciting, smartest comic book you've never heard of.Let me put it another way. Regardless of whether or not you read comic books at all, if you have a pulse and you can read, you'll like this one.
There they meet friendly allies and deadly enemies that should give this comic more depth, but everything is too simplistic to keep me reading.(view spoiler)[Fone meets a friendly insect named Tim who directs them to see Thorn.
They plan to destroy granny's barn and kill Fone to get to Phoney for no apparent reason yet.
Thorn and Fone get surrounded by monsters, but the dragon pulls itself out of its a...
If you want to see why the leader of the monsters wants Phoney soul, if Phoney's plan will make him rich and if Fone marries Thorn or something, then read on.
Reading this brings back so many memories of me and my sister hiding in the back corner of the library, where the graphic novels and stuff were kept, and no one ever went back there, so that we could eat candy and read without getting caught :p
