https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/889284.The_Postman
They got nothing on Gordon The Postman, he really knows how to deliver!This is the second Brin book for me, the previous one I read was Startide Rising which was fun but just a wee bit disappointing in that it did not resonate with me much (those "uplifted" dolphins are just a little too cute for me, even the badass ones).
Still, I like Brin's writing and the basic premise of The Postman so I thought I'd give it a go, and it turned out to be one of my more inspired decisions.
Good post-apocalyptic SF.David Brin’s 1985 novel, really a put together of two novellas, has won numerous accolades and gushing praise, including the 1986 Locus Award.
And for good reason, Brin is a good writer and backs up his prose with real science.More than just a Road Warrior after civilization story, Brin explores themes of the frailty of civil society, but also the perseverance of that same community and the importance of belief in tradition and national identity.A survivor dons an old postal inspector uniform and becomes the personification of a lost ideal.
One of my all time favorite books, no question.
I stumbled on this book some years ago and frankly was surprised at how much I liked it.
One of the main questions he confronts (constantly) is, who will accept responsibility?
The question of responsibility goes deeper than the momentary events that triggered the collapse, much deeper?
Go on from there.I've read other books by David Brin, some I've liked some...not so much.
As I said, I don't hand out a lot of 5 star ratings.
This is one of the books I've loaned, given away, and recommended widely.
However, within this setting the book is really about civilization and the symbols that people rally behind in difficult situations in order to accomplish larger goals beyond their own interests.The main character is Gordon Krantz, a decent man who finds an old Postal uniform and uses it to gain food and shelter in his travels by spreading tales of a “Restored United States.” While begun as a “con” to simply survive, Gordon eventually sees the power of the hope he brings to the people he meets and eventually sees that belief in the dream can actually help to make it real.
The movie moved me, the novel is cautionary and healing meI'm not a big sucker to Sci-Fi, and I have a penchant for Soft-Sci(Rollins, Lincoln Preston and some Crichton, etc), so few books can move meTechnically, it's a Sci-Fi, but I don't take it for a Sci-Fi. Did anyone read McCarthy's The Road as a Sci-Fi or Fantasy stuff?
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works.
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
not the Locus Sci-Fi Award.
is not a bad little story, but nothing to write home about.
The lowly mailman as savior or at least re builder.It's interesting to note that the movie (hated by many, but not me *sigh*)ran with this part of the story and for good reason.The mundane civil servant is now heroic.
But then David Brin - ex-NASA scientist - has to bring in technology.
Isn't it enough to have a story about the rebuilding of the country?
Or did David Brin become bored with such an Earthy story and feel the need to go into space - so to speak.
Men have been writing the roles and the rules for millennium to excuse their bad behavior.
For Brin to put it in the head of a female character that men's bad behavior is the fault of womankind for—of all effing lunacies—not ganking the 'bad little boys' in their beds before they can grow up to become raging hemorrhoids is just— I have no words.Oh!
I think Brin just wanted his 'every man' hero to get his sausage basted on leveler footing (the traumatized love dolls he had masquerading as single women would've soiled the nice guy image he'd so carefully cultivated).
But Brin has always been a thinking fan's SF author, with big and intelligent ideas even in his space operas.The Postman does not feature zombies, killer plagues, or EMPs. The "Doom War" that ended civilization was set off by the rise of fanatics in the East and the West, leaving the U.S.
The Postman has its share of violence and grit, but it is at heart an optimistic novel about the triumph of idealism and ethics over pure savagery.David Brin leans left, and as I've often remarked on right-wing authors who get up on a soapbox in their end-of-the-world novels, I have to admit that Brin does this a little bit too.
Of course, I thought I'd be different and actually enjoy this book since I really enjoyed the movie.
The first half was great; I'd give it 4.5 stars.
It could have cleanly ended there and all would have been well.The second half of the book is, at best, 1.5 stars.
It's as if someone else wrote it, and it barely resembles the first half of the book at all with its "three myths".
The author also throws in some drug-laced tobacco into the mix (which I'm pretty sure contributed to the author's insane writing of the second half of the book).Save yourself the trouble before reading; rip out the last half of the book and burn it.

Постапокалиптичен роман, който е и сред най-добрите в жанра - по мое мнение.Брин е създал книга за силата на надеждата и за това, че понякога и един човек, мечтател или новатор е способен да взриви натрупаната критична маса и да промени света драстично.Филмът с Кевин Костнър в ролята на Гордън също много ми хареса.
So I finally read the book that was the inspiration for one of my favorite movies!
Isn't that shocking?!I felt that the book was a bit passive and meandering throughout.
And then it's like somewhere around 2/3 he realizes that there has to be some great conflict so he throws in an element that is very out of place.
I enjoyed it (minus a few eye rolls) enough to say I liked it and give it three stars.
I wouldn't say it's something that can't be passed up but it's a solid book, especially for post-apoc fans.ETA: I just edited down to two stars.
It starts as a rather bland post-apocalyptic adventure, but gradually the author weaves in the real theme - the role of myths (or Big Lies as they are called in the text) in shaping society.
The American centrism of the novel brings some false notes from time to time (as in here was the best of all possible worlds, brought down by forces envious of their freedom), but ultimately I appreciated the message of hope that was still prominent in 1985, as compared to the more cynical view of recent authors.
The Postman is often in lists of Post Apocalyptic fiction must reads.
I was aware that this had been made into a film in the 90s, in fact I worked in a cinema at the time.
I don't remember watching the film so I thought that as this was a PA must read I would pick this up.Boring.
If I could sum this book up in 1 word.
Boring.
I'm lucky because I very rarely get bored- why would I be?
There is always a book to read.
The only reason I didn't give up on this book was because I held the vain hope something of interest would happen.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...

I actually enjoyed the first half of this book - a wanderer finds a postal worker's uniform and uses it to pretend he's employed by a revived national government in order to restore civilisation to a post-apocalyptic Oregon...But then it all goes downhill, the plot, I mean.And then there was the movie (sad trombone...)
💔this book started out so strong and i was thinking that it would be a five star life changing read about hope and resilience and the lengths that people will go to to keep a dream alive.
like, this book definitely went in a weird direction that for me wasn't meaningful at all, it was just sad and also disjointed kind of.BUT through it all, there was the recurring theme of very meaningful things such as responsibility and belief and hope and carrying on even though your whole world has actually gone to hell in a handbasket.
I remember really liking the book and the general premise about a post-apocalyptic world where Gordon Krantz finds a postman’s uniform and reinvents himself as a postman from the Restored United States.
Another of my favorite parts is the computer Cyclops and its similarity to the Wizard of Oz. David Brin also brings up several times how important myths and legends are in society.I would hope that everyone who saw the movie would not judge a book by its movie.
Even more important, it is very entertaining and for a post-apocalyptic world, very hopeful.
Funny to think we have passed the future timeline in this book, published thirty-three years ago, and we are still here.
It is scarier and scarier to think that we could be her any time soon.
The Doomwar and the Holnist mentality seem pretty close some days.Oh a happier note, I would like to think that people like Gordon Krantz will exist in that future time.
I suspected several times, while reading this story, that I had previously read this book, but after a certain point, I stopped getting those de ja vu feelings.
I did not want his story to end too soon.
This book won two awards and was nominated for two more, is included on several "best" lists, and was made into a movie.
The first half is build from two award winning novellas.
Unfortunately, the second half of this book left me with the postage due.The first half is very good.
Gordon is a wandering troubadour, surviving from town-to-town in post-apocalyptic America.
This new role grows to define Gordon, and inspires more people than his half-remembered Shakespeare could.
This portion is also well done, with good characters and setting.In the last section of the book, never published separately, Gordon reluctantly agrees to lead the defense of towns against remaining survivalists.
No matter how many times he tells them that he just took the clothes off of a dead man to keep warm, they don't believe him, and begin telling stories about the past, before the war, and about how much they all loved their postmen.Later, when faced with another robbery, he begins to use this nostalgia to his advantage, and from there, the story spreads, growing far beyond his control and comprehension, until he has networked almost all of what was once northern Oregon together by mail, opening up trade between towns that had previously never even known that one another existed, and giving people hope for a better future.
„12 маймуни”, „Воден свят”, „Армагедон”, „Годзила”, „Денят на независимостта” и още ред други ленти показваха различни сценарии за това по какъв начин човечеството може да се (само)заличи от лицето на планетата и каква би била съдбата на шепата оцелели.
„Пощальонът” с Кевин Костнър може и да не е първото заглавие, за което ще се сетите в случая, но в моето съзнание филмът е оставил ярка следа по няколко причини.
Идеята за силата на словото и думите, за отстояването на идеалите и за символите и мечтите като източник на опора в най-тежките моменти – ето това ме докосна в историята на „Пощальонът”.
Нещо в нея ми беше скучно, нещо в нея ме изпълваше с противоречия, нещо не можах да й повярвам, че точно така биха могли да се случат нещата.Действието се развива 16 години след Апокалипсиса - за него се споменава от време на време, с недомлъвки, земята и по-скоро Америка е напълно унищожена от атомни бомби, радиация, болести, последвала тригодишна зима и т.н.
16 години по-късно все още има оцелели - Гордън е един от тях.
Общо взето в това се състои историята като разбира се попада на трудности, бие се с холнистите, помага където има нужда, но като цяло този сюжет на мен не ми беше интересен.
The climax of the novel is a fight between two characters which barely involves the protagonist, though fortunately it returns to being about Gordon for the last part.The world of The Postman is bleak, post-apocalyptic, both recognising the elements among us who are violent and opportunistic, and the basic decency a lot of people have.
There's hope here as well.The way the novel deals with female characters...
Many women are strong, and capable of a lot better than the showing they make here.
A differenza di altri post-apocalittici, il romanzo è duro ma non ineluttabilmente pessimista.
Senza poter dire troppo per evitare spoiler, ho apprezzato molto come la figura della donna esca vincitrice dal Nuovo Mediovevo dipinto da David Brin.
Romanzo poco appariscente ma di spessore, decisamente consigliato.Piccola nota: di solito non amo che il titolo italiano si discosti troppo da quello originale, ma in questo caso direi che è decisamente azzeccato.
Il libro si trova anche col titolo "L’Uomo del Giorno Dopo", titolo anche del film con Kevin Costner tratto dal romanzo (che non ho mai guardato per non rovinarmi il piacere della lettura).
David Brin's classic sci-fi novella of a United States shattered by a so-called limited nuclear war. A survivor discovers a postal service jeep deep in the woods. Scavenging the dead postman's uniform and letters bag, he finds himself delivering not only long-delayed letters, but hope as well. A simple, yet elegant read.
Nevertheless, we must tread carefully, lest myth cross that line from useful propaganda to Big Lie.Playing the role of antagonists in The Postman, the Holnists follow the writings of anarchist survivalist Nathan Holn.
Holn rises to popularity prior to the apocalyptic "Doomwar" (which is a really cheesy name) with a book that employs what Gordon calls "the Big Lie" technique:Just sound like you know what you're talking about—as if you're citing real facts.
Everything in this postapocalyptic Oregon is wrapped in myth: the Restored United States, the philosophy of the survivalists, the truth behind the Cyclops supercomputer, Dena's militant feminists, etc.
Пощальонът разнася надежда сред лишен от нея свят: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...Гордън е един от оцеляващите – помни света преди разрухата, но е научил и правилата на новия свят, когато вече държави няма, а хората са обособени в малки общности за защита срещу безбройните агресивни банди, които си правят каквото си искат.
Гордън се скита сам, но се сблъсква с група опасни типове, които му взимат всичко ценно – докато спасява кожата си, попада на кола от едно време, а в нея намира униформа на пощальон, която си слага.
И че отново ще могат да контактуват с хора, които не виждат всеки ден.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
