https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773480.Inside_Outside_Upside_Down
A kid classic. Perfect for little kids (Six months - three years old).There's just a few words on each page. Nice clear pictures. Clear action. (Also, it helps kids get a grip on prepositions, which are actually a really tricky part of the English language, and not intuitive at all.)Little Cutie really likes this one. He'll point at the pictures and name things, talking about what's going on.
Alright, this book has been a bit boring for me to read to my kiddos, but they've asked for it over and over as toddlers.
Excellent book for teaching children prepositions in a fun and entertaining way.
A quirky children’s book. It reminded me of a shorter version of a Dr. Seuss book.
The target for The Berenstain Bears Bright & Early series is the beginning of the beginningest early readers.My TakeJust like little kids or the cat as this little bear explores a box using very easy words to describe the child bear's actions and introduces the concepts of inside, outside, and upside down.
A great opportunity for kids to learn concept words and for Mom and Dad to discuss them.A short adventure that I'll hope no one emulates!The StoryIt's an adventure of exploration as a bear explores a carton that gets carried away!The CharactersYoung bear who explores.
My 18-month old loves this book. The rhymes are short and fun and the book is full of starter words that early learners easily identify and shout out during the reading ("Box!" "Mama!""Outside!") A terrific learning tool. This book actually comes from my childhood collection. I am so pleased I kept and can share the classic book with my daughter. The paper in the hardcover is thick, substantial and a bit harder to rip apart than new edition paperbacks of other authors. I find these older classics to be essential starter books for beginning readers.
Just read this one to my 3 year old based on a recommendation from author Patrick Rothfuss, and he was immediately captivated. I haven't read a new book to my kid that had him so captivated in a very long time. As soon as the book was over, my kid wanted to read it again. He even sat with it by himself later and was repeating the sentences he remembered as he flipped through the pictures. An awesome, fun, and simple book that will help kids understand some prepositions. Highly recommend.
This book is about a bear being delivered to his mom’s house in a box.
During the ride he describes how he is in the box, upside Down, inside, outside, etc.
Other than the ride in the back of the truck the book does not have much of a plot.
The bear is just in a box the whole time, he get into silly situation throughout the book and then it end happily.
I mostly liked the pictures in the book.
I also liked the colors is this book.
This book would be perfect to teach students concepts about inside, outside, and upside down.
This book is really great for young kids. When my son was a baby and toddler, I would read it to him. He loved the repetition, and it helped him to learn his prepositions. Then we set it aside for a few years--just long enough for him to forget how it goes. And now that he's starting to read on his own, he pulled it back out and read it to me, so excited that he could read a Berenstain Bears book himself! Highly recommend for 5/6 (early readers) and below.
Do not ask me why I love this book so much. Maybe it's the stark simplicity. Maybe it's the illustrations. Maybe it's a whole range of possible emotion conveyed in two eyeballs on the side of a box. Whatever the reason, this is a beautiful book for teaching a child to read because it's funny. And just fun to read. This one goes on the favorites shelf.And I just don't know why.
Great kids book. Perfect for the toddler age group.
Very good book for new readers! It also teaches young kids the concept of being inside and outside and upside down.
It's a ok book
Just a few words on each page along with clear pictures making it very easy to read. Introduces concepts such as inside, outside and upside down to describe little bears actions.
This book is a good beginning reader book with easy to understand concepts.
Very simple book, with one word per page. Still manages to tell an interesting enough story for young children though!
6/26/18 Read with Julia.7/5/18 Read with Naomi & Julia
The follies of climbing into foreign boxes17 November 2013 This is another one of those cool Dr Seuss books that is so simple in the way that it is put together that it makes it one of those books that I would recommend every parent of young children have on their shelf. In a way it is able to teach children aspects of the English language using simply sentences and very clear pictures – namely teaching the meaning of the words inside, outside, and upside down. Basically one of the Berenstain be
The follies of climbing into foreign boxes17 November 2013	This is another one of those cool Dr Seuss books that is so simple in the way that it is put together that it makes it one of those books that I would recommend every parent of young children have on their shelf.
This was another one of those books that as I read it I was automatically wanting to translate it into German, namely because it was so simple.
Okay, I have already made an attempt to translate one of these books into German, but while I would like to do it, I really don't want to do it at this time.
I guarantee that I can find a plethora of books that are fun to read for adults that kids will ask for again and again.
I need not spend my time trudging through a slow repetitive book because of a child's nature to have you re-read books.
The repetitive nature is perfect for early readers who are looking for a slightly fast and funnies quality of book than the Spot of Biscuit books (that have their own value in quantity of material so kids can keep progressing to the next).
For some kids, we're talking twice, then they want to move on to other books with the same or similar words that tell another story.
It's aimed at very early readers--or, probably, children who can't read quite yet--and teaches prepositions: inside, outside, and upside down (and a few others).The story in this one is extremely simple--it's main purpose is to teach a few words, not to tell a story.
There's lots of repetition (on three pages: "Inside a box", "Upside down", and "Inside a box/Upside down", and eventually "Going to town/On a truck/Outside/Inside a box/Upside down"), which I expect may help even those who cannot yet read to begin to learn the words.(The remainder of this review is posted on my blog.)
Inside, Outside, Upside Down is a Bright and Early Book for Beginning Beginners, and that line copied not be more aptly named.
On the scale of picture books, Inside, Outside, Upside Down is at the very bottom.
This isn't a Cat in the Hat; this isn't even a One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish.
For example, the first page only says “Going in” then you look at the picture and you see a bear going into a box.
This is how the majority of the book goes following the bears adventure with this box, using the illustrations to aid the reader.
On the next page it reads “Upside down” and even though the box says which way it should be the bear still picked the pox up wrong and the words on the box are on the bottom upside down with the arrow pointing down.
The use of a box helps teach different vocabulary to readers by moving around the box.
The use of repetition can be seen to reinforce each directional word used.
Children can learn from this as the pictures help show visual picture of these directions.
The box can be painted and have the different vocabulary from the book printed on it as well.
The children can take turns doing the different directional actions from the box.
Ask the children what other ways the can mover around the box or do with the box.
It’s about how a little bear gets inside a box is nearly taken to town, but falls off the truck and runs back home to tell his mom all that has happened.
This book is simple, more pictures than text, and its purpose is to familiarize kids with the differences between inside, outside, and upside down.
Compared to the other Berenstain Bear books, this one is a little bit of a letdown because the lessons taught in those books are great lessons.
I would definitely recommend different Berenstain Bear books.
Baby Bear goes to town stowed away in a box on the back of Father Bear's truck.The directional vocabulary is rich.
Inside, outside, upside down, going in,inside, off and it continues on to the very end.
After WWII ,they married and became a magazine cartoonist team.They had two sons, Leo and Mike and began writing children's books because of their children's love of Dr. Seuss.
The first Berenstain Bear book was published by Dr. Seuss in 1962.
There are over 200 Bear books published over 43 years.Their son Mike continues to write and illustrate the Berenstain Bear books.
Brother bear climbs in a box and it gets rolled upside down onto a dolly, taken outside and loaded onto a truck.
The box is hauled away and then falls out the back of the truck and Brother bear steps out of the box.
The life lesson or message of this book is that many things can happen all at once and it's up to your position and your vocabulary to explain where you are.
You could be inside a box while outside of your house.
Vocabulary is important and so is your perspective.
This book absolutely blew my little mind.
The idea that one could be inside, outside, and upside down all at once?
Totally tripped-out and endlessly fascinated my tiny self.
As did illustrations of this little bear boy who appeared to live alone in a seemingly empty house with inexplicably lucky access to a box bigger than his body.
Into which he willfully crawled ...
! At this juncture of my life, what would I not have given for a box bigger than my body, I ask you?
A bear explores a carton on a truck and gets carried away.
By the time he has returned, the reader will be exposed to the concepts of "inside, outside, upside down."My Review: Berenstein Bears were a staple in our house when I was growing up and have been looking forward to sharing the messages and morals with Munchkin.
This wasn't quiet the same as the books I remember that had an actual story.
This was more of a simple teaching book with a little rhyming.
It might be fun to act out parts of the book in a box of their own too.
This is one of the earlier Berenstain Bear books, and it shows.
Ignore the cover, the bears on the *inside* of this book are less stylized and cutesy than the bears in the newer books, and the story is an early reader instead of a longer read-aloud.It's a cute little story about a cub and his misadventures in a box.
The illustrations make it perfect :)There are only a few words per page, so this one is perfect both for early readers and for little-little ones learning to talk - the book focuses on prepositions, as you might guess from the title.
The Berenstain Bear Books were my favorite as a child and I have passed on the love of reading to my own four children.
Only my youngest and my 10 yr old Autistic son like them but I get a joy from watching them enjoy them the way I did.
They learn valuable lessons that are hard for children their age to grasp as they are still developing cognitively and makes it easier to explain to a high functioning autistic child.
We use them as forms of social stories.
I would recommend these to any family with small children but especially those with children on the spectrum.
