https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42694.Battle_Cry
This book is for the Marine Corps what "Tales of the South Pacific" was for the Navy: a great tale of the organization's finest hour told through the experiences of those who lived it.
The narrative spans three major campaigns in the Pacific and catalogues the development of the Communications Platoon, 2nd Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment through initial training, the sudden drastic changes of missions and equipment during wartime, and skillfully interweaves the personal stories of each character as it is relevant.
It is an inspiring and sometimes tragic story of (arguably) America's proudest fighting force and the dedicated, courageous, and vulnerable men who filled it's ranks.
No limericks today. Just a few words. This is a really awesome war book. The style is similar to James Jones. You get that mad sadness and humor blended together, the kind only people who have lived through battle can appeciate.Cheers,Igor
This is one book that I keep coming back to; my copy is in tatters from multiple readings. The story follows a group of young men that enlist in the Marine Corps in the wake of the attack on Pearl Harbor, through to the middle of the 1944. This was Leon Uris's first novel, and while it certainly will not rank as one of the classic novels of literature, it is fast paced, with engaging characters.
I read this book while I was a Marine option Navy ROTC midshipman, it was the propaganda the doctor ordered.
Granted, I bought into the Esprit de Corps from a very young age, but Uris is a good writer and even my wife read and liked it (I made her when we were dating.
I would follow up this book with:The Great Santini (I read it in 13 hours and laughed outloud through the entire book)Fields of FireA Sense of HonorA Country Such As ThisP.S. I've been shocked in the last 5-10 years by the politcal leanings of both Uris and Webb.
I LOVE this book.
I first discovered it over 25 years ago and I still keep going back to it to read it again.
I love the way you get to know the characters, how each one has his story and how each one lives or dies.
It is incredibly sad when one of the characters you love dies but that is the way of war.
Its a war story, its unlike any book I have read before and as a young woman to now a middle aged woman I would definitely recommend it.
Yes, some the scenes are a bit unevern, but this WAS a first novel.I like the way Uris shows how a large group of men from som many different ways of life--who might never have connected but for the war--come to depend on one another.In one scene, L Q Jones has a fever of 103.
If I go, it makes more load for them to carry..."From the scenes where the men cover for each other at boot camp, to the scenes where they care for each other when sick of malaria--you really get of feel of how these individuals becae part of brave group of fighters.
Classic war story; so revered and respected it was often issued to cadets in military training schools and ROTC programs.
Approved by the US military.
Of course, you can take that two ways.
And you should.Its remarkable precisely for its staid, underlying blandness and tight-lipped aspect; the airless quality; the lack of all the normal and messy psychology; the omission of doubt and mistrust that we know happens in real life.
Its a book which is written..
'by-the-book'.
At least that's what I recall.
All the characters in the story do what they're supposed to do without a quaver.
The ship carried the boys to and from Guadalcanal, Tarawa, and Saipan: the battles that are depicted in Battle Cry, Uris' first novel.
St. Mary, Danny, Mac, Huxley, the Injun, the lumberjack, the feather merchant, the professor, Burney, Ziltch, Seabags, Levin, Speedy, L.Q., and the rest of "Huxley's Whores" will stay with me for quite a while.
A group of misfits - boys really - who volunteered for the Marines who at the end were men of glory and courage.
The boys of the 6th Marines lived and loved hard because each to a man knew that the "Whores" were not promised tomorrow.
This book is a thorough, fictionalized narrative of the life of a Marine, from the decisions made by brave men to enlist, all through boot camp, all through the apprehensions and graphic details of various battles in the Pacific during WWII.
I was impressed with the details of the human relationships between the men, their girlfriends and wives all over the place, and the everlasting bond that is created by the toughness of the Marines.
Pulling on his own experience as a Marine in WW II, Leon Uris--known for his epic novels such as Exodus, Trinity, Mila 18--tells the story of the US Marines who fought in the South Pacific--the officers, the grunts, the street-wise toughs, the guys from everytown USA. It's got humor, guts, glory, and heart break. There are some scenes from bootcamp that will have you laughing till you cry. And some of the battle scenes will have you crying. Been too many years, I need to go back and re-read this.
Another book I read years ago. Uris' take on a group of Marines from enlistment through the war (WWII). The men come from vastly different backgrounds and grow into a coherent unit. The book begins at the beginning of the war when America's armed forces were small and under equiped with only a small core of experinced troops. (this was true of Army, Navy, and Marines). The narrator is an experinced old time Marine sargent who leads the men through growth and battles.
My dad insisted I read this book. He said it was his favorite book when he was younger. One of the few books he's read over and over and over again.It was engrossing and enveloping story following some Marines from boot camp to the islands of Tarawa and Saipan. You follow the Marines through the hell of boot camp, through their courtships, and through the hell of combat. A sensitive and realistic portrait not just of war, but of the relations between Marines.
Here is a ripping good storyteller doing what many authors have tried to do but usually not as well: Making the connection between being a soldier and being human.
Did not finish -- no combat till the very end, terrible writing, sentimental characters, dated attitudes on just about everything. This guy makes Herman Wouk look like William Faulkner!
This book was my introduction to Leon Uris as a teenager. It spawned my interest in WW II and military fiction. It was also one of the first truly adult books I read. After nearly 40 years it was interesting to revisit this book. As an adult I found it simpler and more straight forward than I remembered and not quite as emotional. Regardless it was a great walk down memory lane enjoying this title again.
A good look at the great war.A very good look at what war is really about. Japan and Germany were very tough to fight, we won the war but it took a great toll on our Military. This was a good book and should be read by the younger generation today, because they have no idea what a real war is.
I started off forcing myself through the first 100 pages, the next almost three hundred, I took breaks to look up the information I was trying to absorb. It went from a two star to a five star book over the four days it took me to read. Not many books can make me laugh, cry, and learn, all within 476 pages.
I read this book on the train when I was on my way to basic training. I was surprised by how accurate the book was when describing training. I "relived the book" several times during basic training (and I was in the Air Force).
His first book. A fast read, gave a good first hand account of war, pain, relationships. Sentimental, typical of the 50's. Glad I read it!
I could relate to this book--I was a Marine Cpl. when I read the book.
Awesome book that follows a few marines in a fictional regiment during WW2.
It's written by a veteran of the conflict and is very touching.
It follows them from Training through the final storming of the beach that decimates the regiment.
It's great weight comes more from the scenes outside of combat than the heroism described during conflict.
Their stay in New Zealand for example sounds like a good ol time, but the gloom of future combat hangs above them.
Battle Cry is an epic that follows a Marine battalion from its training on the West Coast to its combat exploits on Guadalcanal, Tarawa, and Saipan.
Beyond the elements of fighting in the war itself, the book does a good job of diving into the personal relationships between the men of the battalion.
It is rewarding to see Danny Forrester, Spanish Joe Gomez, and Andy Hookans grow into battle hardened veterans and men of responsibility.
More than anything else, I value this work for its emphasis on camaraderie and belief in the goodness of man.
A very good read, and one with a real sting.
For most of the book you're spending time with a group of marines through their training, and then in combat situations where they are not spearheading the attack.
At the climax of the book, when they really are on the front line, things get real.It's a lovingly painted portrait that reads very easily and holds the attention well over nigh-on 700 pages.
War novels are not my favourite genre, but this one spends a lot of time examining the human side of things, and does it well.
A bit dated with its depictions of loves left behind, madcap drinking and such. But who am I today Uris didn’t really experience this.Thank god there are strong men armed prepared to bring violence down on the heads of those who would do us harm
Wish I hadn't seen the movie first. Book seemed longer overall than necessary, with more vignettes into the personal lives and concerns of the individual characters. The book is about 50% boot camp, 40% stationed in New Zealand, and 10% actual combat. Not the thrilling war story I was expecting.
CompanionsA jigsaw puzzle of individuals facing the realities of being a piece of the puzzle but becoming much more by being part of the whole. A great example of no man is an island.
Heartbreaking, as expectedTakes boys from high school through bootcamp and then horrific battles, which, it they survive, season them to hardened Marines. Well-written;salty as one would expect.
Long, confusing @ times. Interesting characters. This is a sad story about a terrible war.
Great adventureThis bools explains how the Corps was and needs to be so we can stay strong. It takes you back to the war
Best book have ever read. I keep coming back to it, to read some more. I just love it.
