https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864754.Season_of_Passion
Buen libro, la historia un poco triste y el final no fue mi hit
Though at first, she was one of those women, like most of us, who gets easily attached with a guy and make them our world.The kind of women who had the tendency when loving someone, forgets to leave some for herself.
What makes me love the book the most is how it talked about being a woman who wanted to be free from all the pains and sorrows that she had been through.
It talked about how a woman could have so much love to give even without leaving a little for herself.
Tom started playing really bad because he was getting old, and he had anger issues and had a bad reputation in the media.One day with an attempt of suicide he shot himself in the head but didn't die, but instead his mind became of a 7 year old, and that problem was incurable.He was sent to a place for people like him for the rest of his life.Kate was left alone with her baby, and all she did was write a book, take care of her child and go meet her husband, she kept doing that for 7 years, with no motive in life.
Waste of time. Worst Danielle Steele book I have read so far.
It took me so long to get through this because...well, it was terrible. I love cheesy...this was worse than cheesy. Not her best work. Second half was better than the first.
Kate then escapes to the country where she gives birth to Toms child.
For 6 years Kate hides in the country keeping her former life a secret from everybody including her and Toms son Tygue.
After writing her first novel which was a flop Kate accendentally writes a best seller and the life she had carefully built up in the country started to crumble.Through her first book tour Kate meets Nick Waterman who she gradually falls in love with.
With his brain injury he is like a 7 year old boy.
She was pregnant and his father would never realize he had a son.She decided to write Tom's story and that's where she meets the TV produced Nick Waterman.
He knows she is keeping a secret and he wants her to tell him herself.Love all the travel and the places described along the way.
She is on tour but Nick and her son now her secret..She loves her time in NY promoting the book and meets a man that has similar situations as she and they share a dinner.
2 STARS"Kate is only eighteen when she meets Tom Harper, one of America's biggest pro-football stars.
They share an idyllic and glamorous first love.
But the bullet that suddenly ends Tom's career also ends their life together.
Kate will be left alone, heartbroken, and pregnant with their son.
Soon she will have another chance at love, but it will mean learning to let go of the past and learning to trust again." (From Amazon)Originally when I read Danielle Steel novels I would have rated them 3-4 STARS, but now I would classify them as 1-2 STARS.
Season Of Passion is extremely fun to read novel. Kate, an 18 year old, meets a man, Tom, which is a professional football player. They eventually fall in love, get married, and all the usual things that happen in a book. After that, a failed suicide attempt is thrown into the book and this causes Kate to lose all trust in everything that she does. I find this book fun to read because its funny how you can fail a suicide, but still, in all seriousness, this was a fantastic novel.
A magyar fordítás sántikál egy-két helyen (pl. "Nick úgy érezte, mintha földrengés érte volna." - hmm, érdekes érzés lehetett -, vagy ki gondolta volna, hogy Ámerikában is Mucsán laknak az emberek:) A csaj idegesítő, a pasi túl megértő, túl tökéletes, s ha véletlenül mégis kikel magából, gyorsan meg is bánja, akár jogos, akár nem a felháborodása. Ezzel együtt úgy vélem, öt-hat évenként egy-egy Steel elmegy. :)
"season of passion" the worst book i've ever red, i hated most of it, i think the story was sort of interesting but the writing ruin it, it made it look so cheesy and stupid besides i found the main caracter (Kate) extremely boring and annoying. in other words, this book was a total fail. reading it was a waste of time.
Lamest book I've ever read in my life.
I enjoyed it thoroughly, and would recommend it as a well written book although I had a bit of difficulty swallowing the actions of the main character concerning her husband.
I spent my experience with this novel yelling at her for being dumb, and I am sure that took a bit of the enjoyment out of it for me.I could almost understand why she kept her husband's injury and the reasons it occurred from her son, but I didn't understand why she hid her husband from her son entirely.
I must say that although I had terrible feelings about most of the decisions that the main character made I wasn't disappointed in the way the story was written.
Love On The RunThis is a book about how love can change a family into one of upheaval and discontent. How a mother and father can disown a child, because of the child falling in love with a man that they think is all wrong for her. This is a story of heartbreak and courage and the will to make a new life for her and her son. A truly remarkable story you will enjoy to the ending.
Es un libro que te tiene enganchado de principio a fin. En él la autora te cuenta cosas que son interesantes y que pueden pasar perfectamente en la vida real. Por ponerle una pega, la traducción del libro no es muy buena en algunos momentos del libro, ya que la forma de redactar no me parece que sea la correcta.
Considero a esta autora una de mis favoritas en este género y no defrauda nunca. Una novela con una historia triste pero preciosa. Apasionante de principio a fin y con unos personajes muy trabajados. Adoro las novelas románticas escritas con buen gusto y esta sin duda lo es
Love re reading this - it was so long ago I read it originally that I didn't remember much only little bits here and there!
One of the first books I read of Ms. Steel'so. I was hooked.However, her style changed within a few years, and her books aren't quite as haunting/riveting.
I read this book many years ago and it was interesting to reread it. The romance is timeless!!
There is definitely something to be said of Steel's earlier novel. They have that something extra that her new ones don't have.
I love Danielle Steel, and I love that this book wasn't so predictable. Just enough gooey and mushy.
No me gusto el final
Kate lives alone with her son, after the tragedy of what happened to her husband.
Kate has to chose to continue to live in her bubble of safety or go out in the big scary world.
Kate choses the big scary world and what ensues is dramatic but with happy moments.
Kate discovers herself and how the world isn't as scary as she once thought it was.
It felt like she insisted on being weak but then turned around and yelled at anybody who tried to help her.
I was waiting and waiting and waiting for Kate to tell Nick about her husband.
Couldn't wait for each new Danielle Steel book.
The story goes when Kate, at the age of eighteen fell in love with Tom Harper, a famous professional football player; an American hero.
The climax of the story erupted when Tom tried to kill two men and almost killed himself that left him physically and mentally cripple leaving Kate all the responsibility, including their soon to be son****At first, I thought that the book was fucking boring.
I love this book so damn much that I can't believe I'm saying that it's so inspiring and emotional and I'm all hands down to Danielle Steel for this one.
A Daniele Steel é uma das escritoras sobre quem tenho muita curiosidade em conhecer mas dada a sua extensa publicação tem sido dificil conhecer e acompanhar, contudo nos poucos livros dela que já consegui ler há um fio condutor de emoções que ela mantém inalterável e que me faz gostar dos seus livros.
----Danile Steel is one of these writers that I want to know but because of her extense publications is dificult to follow, still in the few I've read there's a thred of emotions that bind them all and that makes me love her books and it's people.
I needed to read a book with a football player character for a recent challenge.
The book tells the story of Kate, only eighteen when she meets Tom Harper, one of America's biggest pro-football stars.
Soon she will have another chance at love but what does this mean for Tom?I'm not a huge romance fan but this was a fast easy read that fulfilled my challenge.
It was one of Danielle Steel's early books but it's held up pretty well.
If you are a fan of romance books I'm sure you'll like this one.
Very excellent from beginning to end
my favorite character is katie bacuase she is so stronged willed and she lnows what she wants.
she does everything she can to keep her and kevin happy and when everything starts going bad she does her best to insure that nothing will fall apart.
My least favorite character is katie's dad.
When he finds out that katie is going to move away with kevin and he disowns her as his daughtrer and tells her never wants to see her again.
Season of Passion is filled with irony,alllusion and plot which kept me interested in the book and left me wanting more.This book is captivating, ambitious, profilic, and not a predictable kind of book.
When eighteen-year-old Kate, a model, met pro football player, Tom Harper, they had a beautiful and idyllic romantic relationship.
For Kate, she struggled, when a bullet struck Tom that killed his career and ended their life together.
After Tom failed to kill himself, it left him physically and mentally disabled, while Kate was alone and pregnant with their son.
She promised she wouldn't leave or divorce him.
Soon, she would have a chance to fall in love again with her agent and promised to help keep her secret.
For Kate, she would learn how to let go of the past and learn to trust again.
