https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/309434.Malice_Aforethought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RAyOo...Description: On a balmy summer's day in 1930 the great and the good of the county are out in force for the annual, much-anticipated tennis party at the Bickleighs, although not everyone has much enthusiasm for the game.
Which is why, in his own garden, the host, Dr Edmund Bickleigh, is desperately fighting to conceal the two things on his mind: a mounting passion for Gwynfryd Rattery - and the certain conviction that he is going to kill his wife ...
Hywel Bennett as Dr. Edmund Bickleigh Think twice before accepting high-tea from a genial Devon country doctor.
****.An excellent mystery from Iles in a very early example of the “inverted” form awaits you here.
As an example, let me quote the first sentence: “It was not until several weeks after he had decided to murder his wife that Dr. Bickleigh took any active steps in the matter.” Obviously, this is no longer a classical mystery; we already know who the killer will be.
Iles was given credit for the ‘invention’ of this form of mystery vs.
In this story, Bickleigh is married to a shrew of a woman that he can no longer stand.
Even in the supposedly more sophisticated contemporary detective stories of Ellery Queen and Philo Vance such behaviour is only alluded to when the woman is of “that type.” What the reader realizes is that while the trappings of life have changed much the reality those trappings disguises has changed little.As was true in the earlier The Murder of Roger Ackroyd we experience the people and events in the book through the eyes and mind of the murderer although in Malice the reader does not read his actual words that same reader is told what he is thinking and feeling.
It is this latter that eventually leads him into trouble because the gossips suggest that all was not well with his wife's death.He rides the storm but decides to take revenge on some of those whose wagging tongues caused further police investigation into his wife's death, some 12 months after the event.
His revenge causes him more concern, for the police get involved in an investigation into illnesses contracted by those who he had entertained.In addition the investigation into his wife's death continues and he is eventually tried for his alleged crime.
WOW. I was totally blown out of the water on the characterization in this book. It's note-perfect and just insane, as perfectly looney as American Psycho, and almost harder to read. It's very uncomfortable being in the main character's head; he's so mild and justified at every level. Whew. Don't know if I'll ever be able to read it again, but I was utterly impressed.
I'm so glad I was able to read it now because Iles wrote a psychological thriller where the reader knows from the first few chapters that Dr. Edmund Bickley is going to kill his wife.
This was quite a groundbreaking device at the time the novel was written and it was most entertaining to watch Bickley plan, carry out and then deal with the aftermath of Julia's death.
Dr. Bickley's partial description of a woman with Titan hair included "...she was so excessively lady-like that butter would obviously not melt even in her flaming hair." I'm so glad I took the time to read this wonderfully written novel.
Fun, campy, laugh out loud,tongue-in-cheek, murder mystery.Narrator Bruce Montaguenailed the tongue-in-cheek style.Lots of crazy male andsilly stuffy, female voices.Some how it worked.Clean except for someMild foul language.
I quite enjoyed this mystery. It develops very nicely, with Dr Bickleigh, unhappily married, a man who falls in love with and has romantic liaisons with other women. His wife is sharp, bossy, but tolerates these affairs until one particular. Dr Bickleigh now has to decide to do something so he can realize this love; there is murder, further attempted murders, a trial, with a surprising outcome. It's well-written, the personalities well-developed and the story is interesting and entertaining. I liked it much more than I thought I would. Excellent.
Malice Aforethought is a great British golden-age mystery with a killer twist.Mrs. Julia Bickleigh was born into wealth and minor aristocracy.
It was a pity, but there it was and it could not be helped.”One day, the worm turned and the doctor began plotting his wife’s murder.
It had innovative plotting for its day with the whodunnit resolved on the first page leaving only the how to the rest of the book.
After watching years of Columbo, the plot device seems rather creaky.
If you like British golden-age mysteries, this is an excellent choice.
Edmund Bickleigh is a rather stereotype fictional murderer – very much of his time – short, bullied by an overbearing wife, with a strong inferiority complex and a liking for other women.
It is how murderers were supposed to be in those days, inspired I think by Crippen.The other stereotype too is that Bickleigh is a Doctor – handy for all those medicines lying about, so convenient for a Doctor to kill people.
And Bickleigh’s wife is awful, she deserved bumping off.It would make a good play – the sort that regional drama companies put on in draughty village halls, and it would give people the opportunity to dress up in those nice 1930s outfits.
I first saw this in the BBC four-part series on PBS in the mid-1980s, and have never forgotten it.
It is apparently a famous example of the 'inverted detective story' pioneered by R.
Austin Freeman in 1907 with his Dr. Thorndyke series.
I just read the first of his short stories on Gutenberg, and look forward to reading the rest.
Too bad this vintage author has had his books removed from the Victoria Public Library - no doubt they were tattered to shreds decades ago.
The novels have been reprinted this last decade so hope to find them somewhere...
Although I used the tag "mystery", this book is crime fiction, not mystery. I especially liked the irony of the ending...
It tells the tale of Dr Bickleigh who plans to murder his apparently domineering wife, and is loosely based on the famous Herbert Armstrong case of a decade earlier.Much of the book is more of a black comedy, a satire on the manners and mores of an English village.
The book is dedicated to his first wife, although they divorced in the year of its publication, and I suspect that Julia Bickleigh is based on the author’s mother.All of the characters are unremittingly awful and unlikeable, which is perhaps the whole point, but I found the overall tone rather wearing after a time.
This author is diabolical.
Francis Iles is a pseudonym, and he had written some other things before adopting this nom de plume.
This one was written in 1931 and according to the forward, Iles prefigured writers like Patricia Highsmith and PD James, among others, who took the psychological approach.So having decided to give Iles a try, I waded in.
Initially I thought, oh no, I am following the mind of a John Updike-type creep.
The psychological parts do get a bit entangled at times, but all in all, an excellent read.
It is hard to believe that this book came out in 1931.
If I were to sum this book up in a few sentences it would be, unpleasant people doing unpleasant things, all of them receive some comeuppance for their unpleasant deeds, some suffer more than others.
I felt rather bored with the murderer gaining confidence and getting excited and then becoming deflated, only to become confident again.
That is the problem with gaining insight into the minds of a single character, I guess.
It gets monotonous after a while.
Written in the golden age of British detective fiction, this is one of those inverted mysteries in which the murderer is revealed right from the start.
So it has a bit of the psychological drama to it (this is the same guy who wrote the novel that Hitchcock's Suspicion, starring Cary Grant and Joan Fontaine, was based).
I thought it was very well done, especially the ending, although the last couple of pages had a bit of a Postman Always Rings Twice-esque ending to it, which I didn't care for.
I started watching the black & white movie of this book, oh, 22 years ago, but I missed the last episode, because I got, um, involved with my to-be husband!
So I picked this up at the booksale and, wow, I didn't remember this guy being such a creep!
Great book; great ending!
There's a lot to be said about reading books written in the "pre-mid-century modern" era of the 20th century.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and now I need to find out if I can access the old black/white movie to compare!
Malice Aforethought is a spectacular read. Do not come looking for a mystery as this is no such thing - you know in the first sentence that Dr. Bickleigh is going to murder his wife. The characters in the village and county town are greatly realized (this book has to have influenced the Midsomer novels). The story is thoroughly plausible. The writing sparkles and the ending is quite ironic. A genuinely great time.
Gripping from the first page, a revolution in crime writing in that Iles reveals the murderer from the first page. Brilliant characterisations and a descent into delusion that reminded me of Crime and Punishment. Wonderfully wrought with irony and wit, Iles revels in the nosy gossip of English village ladies with undisguised pleasure. Quite remarkable.
One of the most iconic crime novels to be written in the inverted style where the reader begins the book knowing the murderer's identity. The characterization is clever and the prose is often very funny.For a full review check out my blog Mysteries Ahoy!
A ClassicA master class in dialogue, plotting and psychological suspense. No spoiler here. The reader learns early on who the madman and eventual murder is. The questions are how as much as who and, of course, will he get caught. Read it. Far better than some current best sellers.
Despite the sometimes archaic language, this is a thoroughly enjoyable book. We know that he did kill his wife (the first paragraph tells us so), but that takes nothing away from the story. I found this book to be witty and amusing, and a great game of cat and mouse.
stupid court :(
A classic. Great characterization and actually quite suspenseful even though you know from the first page whodunnit.
Nice and twisty. The bad guy is deliciously horrible.
I r ad this years ago, after enjoying the TV version very much. An excellent, satisfying mystery. It is sufficiently different from the TV version to make it a very good read.
Not a fan of the ironic ending.
Good stuff but the ending does not work, in my opinion.
Interesting ending!
I read the Dutch translation; it was one of the first books I bought, in the 'Crime classics' series by publisher Bruna, way back in the seventies. Still a classic!
