https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890361.Priest_Kings_of_Gor
Personally, I found the Priest-Kings to be somewhat disturbing (I won’t go into details so as not to spoil things), so I didn’t enjoy spending so much time with them, but other readers are likely to feel differently.The Gor books are not, so far, erotic.
2. His refusal to use them as pleasure slaves insults them and makes them pout and demand to know if they’re not pretty enough for him (my goodness, aren’t they silly?).The end result is that each slave girl becomes submissive and is soon begging to please him (“please, master!”) and insisting that she loves him and wanted to wear his collar all along.

All I can say right now is that in my head the Priest-Kings look like giant golden praying mantises...
and its kind of awesome.As to the rest, if you choose to see mysoginy (which I care so little for that I can't even spell it right, heh) in it feel free but I disagree.
In the reality of the world that the books are set in, its simply the natural way of things.
John Norman's Priest-Kings of Gor is about a Hero whose city has been destroyed, whose friends and family have been scattered and isolated one from another, and who knows exactly who to blame for it.
The responsible parties are the planet's alien overlords, the Priest-Kings, whom the Hero, Tarl Cabot, has hated since first learning of their existence.
He's reasonable that way.Priest-Kings is the most overtly science fictional of the first three Gor books and it is because of the Priest-Kings themselves.
It's a progression Norman can't possibly maintain, but I will say this to anyone on the fence about reading these books.
In this one we find Tarl meeting the Priest Kings, the alien overlords of Gor. Again the writing is progressively better than book two and book one.
Oddly in this book Tarl is one of the least interesting characters, he's just the same old Tarl, but the other characters are very entertaining and engrossing, especially the lead aliens and the slaves.One of the best parts of the book is the friendship formed between Tarl and his Priest-King friend, Misk.
I like some old timey pulp fiction every once in awhile, but not this one. DNF, less than a Star.
Spoilers Ahead!!Things I liked about Priest-Kings of Gor:The action, the meeting with the Priest-Kings and the war, the mul's learning what it means to be human and of course, Tarl's reunion with his father.Things I hated about Priest-Kings of Gor:The constant attempts to defend slavery for women and the author's obvious chivalry fetish.
I mean, Tarl Cabot begins by being shocked at the slavery on Gor and his taking of Telana as a slave seems initially reluctant.
As a modern woman I have some strong opinions about what might happen if someone tried to make me a slave just because they saved my life.
This is my favorite of the first three. I love the world that is being built here, I love the idea of the Priest-Kings and what is revealed about the nature of Gor in these novels.I do wish that the author (and thus the narrator) would either accept the culture of Gor, slaves and all, or decide to reject it. The pages full of internal monologue about the true nature of women, slaves, natural selection, etc get a bit tiresome.(But, I will guiltily admit to continuing to the next story.)
Hate to admitt how many of these I read "back then". If you look up "objectfies women" in the dictionary I'm pretty sure you'll find a picture of some of these books...soft core porn. Read some when i was young.
I started and stopped this third entry in the infamous Gor series back in 2012. I pretty much only tolerated the first book, and I absolutely hated the 2nd book, but there was a kind of progression introduced in those, so I went to see what would come in book 3. Like a lot of 60s/70s sword-and-planet series, John Norman's Gor books borrow from Burroughs's Barsoom series. If I'm a broken record about the Barsoom series, it's because I'm more than a little obsessed with it. Based on that, I was e
Like a lot of 60s/70s sword-and-planet series, John Norman's Gor books borrow from Burroughs's Barsoom series.
I dearly hoped that John Norman would aim for the lofty heights of Burroughs' “Gods of Mars” and finally deliver a coherent and driving narrative and maybe restore that city or something.
John Norman's own warped “philosophical” obsession pretty much undoes any change of suspense or high drama or great villainy.
It became pretty clear that Norman wanted to set up something to last several books and that restoring the city wasn't really gonna happen...
I've finished some of the worst books ever, and I couldn't finish “Priest-Kings of Gor”.
It starts off right where the last ended.Where the first volume is a fast moving fun house and the second volume a similar adventure as an excuse to get to the third volume.
This third volume is about the truth behind the myths of Gor. It starts well and moves into deeper description and explanation.
I don't care about the Priest Kings.
Outlaw starts the path to Priest-Kings but is it's own adventure.
Priest-Kings is then really it's own adventure as well.
With but a simply one sentence explanation, you could dive in here and enjoy the inner workings of Gor.Tarnsman 5/5Outlaw 4/5Priest-Kings 3/5
Great book!
I was on the edge of my seat almost the entire book.
Can't wait to see what Tarl Cabot does next!Contains adult sexual themes not for children, such as nudity and S&M.
In my personal opinion it is more humorous than anything else, because it is so ridiculous a concept.
It is definitely a barbaric depiction of an alien world, but sometimes it seems as though these may be Norman's personal opinions of how society should behave in real life on Earth, which is somewhat disturbing.
The book itself was great despite some of the weird sexual themes.
Cabot of earth seeks redress from the so-called "all powerful" Priest-Kings of Gor for the destruction of his beloved city, Ko-Ra-somethingorother.
(OK, actually, not so much of that.)This book had promise.
The Priest-Kings were compelling antagonists, and the descriptions of their culture and physiognomy were interesting.
Alas, about 60% of the way through the book, Norman once again descends into his strange misogynist rants, going so far as to even suggest that women were compelled, evolutionarily to submit to men.
Once that section of the book was passed, the plot became interesting again.
The best of the series so far.
Top of the list of books no one should admit to reading this is a sample from what has to be some of the most mysoganistic fiction ever to make it into mainstream publishing.
My excuse was that I was a teenager stuck in a caravan in a rural area with my parents on a 3 week holiday one summer and the Gor books was the only thing in the caravan shop that looked readable.
I also read Battlefield Earth.Something brought them back to mind last year and I did some googling to find out more - the context really doesn't help.
I understand that the later books in the series got kind of weird, but I remember thinking this one was pretty good when I read it in High School. Funnily although I can remember nothing of the first book in the series, I have always remembered, well not a scene but more of a concept from this book; that the insectoid like Priest Kings could communicate by smell, and could leave messages in place for each other. I don't know why but I still remember that.
I have come to expect a certain flow to these books and this one doesn't disappoint. While the world gets expanded, especially down the path of a larger scifi element, with the Priest-Kings and their technology representing the worst of technological excesses, there still exists the fundamental story of stereotypical masculine bravado with a dedication to strength, loyalty and an abiding desire for love.
It's just awful. I can see why it's popular though. It's on the same level as 'Fifty Shades of Grey' in that it allows people to read some tame (if slightly twisted) porn without it being labelled as such. Pretty much bottom of the barrel, but for those who like this sort of thing, this is the sort of thing they will like.
I have to say that I think much less of myself for actually wanting to continue with this series. This book was misogynistic and "women should be subjugated" like, but did it in such an unapologetic and natural manner that I almost did not mind... Otherwise, the author can tell an imaginative story, so I will keep on reading...
it was alright.don't get caught up in the detail if you don't have the time.Norman can be very tedious.
I think Norman pulled the trigger on the Priest-Kings way too early in the Gor series.
The Priest-Kings were a mysterious presence that always lingered in the background of the Gor stories.
They also helped explain away some of the huge coincidences that happen in Gor stories (one could always imagine that the Priest-Kings were in the background, pulling the strings and making these thing happen for their own ends).
I didn't like the Priest-Kings and so I wish Cabot would move on to other things (like finding Talena and rebuilding Ko-Ro-Ba).
Highly advanced with science so far beyond our own that it appears impossible, they have improved their genetics to make themselves impossibly long lived; they have a society that is different to our own, governed by their background, appearing as something akin to giant insects, they are strong, huge and powerful; communicate by scent, are almost fussy to the point of paranoia when it comes to cleanliness and keep an army of lesser beings (humans) to look after their needs.Norman does not stint in his creativity, the Priest-Kings can communicate with the humans, but there are certain concepts that they cannot grasp, and the same is true in the opposite direction.
Really had to rein in my personal buggy aversions to try and get my antennae around this one (ha).Superbly complex, and yet simple and basic as survival, the Priest-Kings were the last thing I had expected.
I had a bit of trouble trying to visualize them, but that's probably due to the fact that in the decades since this was written, we've had soooo many iconic alien emblems soaked into our popular culture.
(hide spoiler)]I also appreciated the irony of the Priest-Kings' situation on Gor. Very nicely done!
This is a dog eat dog world and as long as you can understand that these books are not of Earth they are just how the planet Gor developed and this is that worlds culture then you can choose to hate them or love them.
I love the style in how thee books are written with each one being about something different but it all being relative to the plot.
I hope these books keep it up.
Sword-and-sandal story in the pulp tradition of Edgar Rice Burroughs. Good worldbuilding. Barely adequate writing. This series is of course (in)famous for the weird BDSM-like slavery, but in these first few books it doesn't play that much of a role.This third book changes the style, and we get a more science-fictional tale about the alien race of the Priest-Kings, who control the counter-Earth. More interesting because of this than the rather standard adventures of the first two books, but a bit duller at times.
I had given up on the Gor series, because, well, it's pulp. And not my particular kind of pulp. Somebody suggested that the third book is better and I gave it another go. I must say that it is better than the first two. I love myself a good alien overlord background. But I just cannot get over the main character. It's not only the treatment of women in the Gor universe, but he has no character traits I could enjoy. That is what makes me abandon the series for good.
BoringThe world building for Gor is very extensive but...oh my God...when you have to read page after page of the history, it is incredibly boring. The book did start to pick up after about the halfway point but the first half is an incredible slog.
Read back in the 70s
The plot was more interesting, but many sequences, especially of character interaction, were overlong.
This one is probably the best of Norman's oevre. The tale of Tarl Cabot reaches a crescendo as he discovers the reality of the Counter-Earth, and ends up with a new job.
Finally figure out who the Priest-Kings are. It was super interesting. Much better than the previous two books.
