https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248635.Table_For_Two
Δεν μπόρεσα να το τελειώσω, γι' αυτό το λόγο βάζω δύο αντί για ένα.
Table For Two proves a delectable gormandizing experience with two light-hearted Harlequin romance from Nora Roberts topped with her vast knowledge of Italian and French haute cuisine as a garnish.
Summer Desserts, the first story is about the fiercely independent French chef Summer Lyndon finding herself attracted to smarmy and suave hotelier Blake Cochran.
The more enjoyable fare turns out to be Lessons Learned when notorious skirt-chaser Carlo Franconi unwittingly surrenders to Juliet Trent, his publicist who finds a heart behind his devastating facade.
The insecurities of Juliet and his reputation as a playboy proves disastrous for their fragile trust.
I have mostly read Fiction from Nora Roberts and was concerned these stories were listed as romance. Much to my surprise and delight, this was not what I would consider trashy romance, but more fiction with a great romance. They didn't really seem much different than most of her fiction work, and I loved them just as much. I am a big fan of french cooking, and believe I also enjoyed the main characters being chefs. Nora delights me again and again. Never a bad story by this great author.
one of her best that I've read. couldn't put it down
A light read. Both books are rather old so the people smoke indoors, take knives and oils on airplanes, professional persons have to use payphones but if you can see pass that you have a soft and sweet summer read.Both books are rather predictable and I found book 2, Lessons learned, more so. The hero, an Italian chef, was the fantasy of a Mediterranean male with his romance and lively hands but still, a good read for a lazy afternoon when you dont want to use your brain.
A light read. Both books are rather old so the people smoke indoors, take knives and oils on airplanes, professional persons have to use payphones but if you can see pass that you have a soft and sweet summer read.Both books are rather predictable and I found book 2, Lessons learned, more so. The hero, an Italian chef, was the fantasy of a Mediterranean male with his romance and lively hands but still, a good read for a lazy afternoon when you don´t want to use your brain.
I gave Summer Desserts two chapters and I'm putting it down as I hate it. The two main characters are cold calculating people with no warmth to them whatsoever. After two chapters I could care less what happens to them so not going to waste my time finishing reading this.
So good -- I reeally liked the characters and hated for it to end.
This book contains two of Roberts' stories. Both center around chefs and romance and mystery that comes into their lives. The reading is light and fun and typical Roberts' entertainment.
What can I say its a Nora Roberts book. I read this a couple years of ago. And I still remember loving it. (:
Hmm..
Ik weet niet goed wat ik er van moet vinden.
In eerste instantie had ik veel meer verwacht.
Vooral meer diepte, die zat er helaas niet in.
Beide verhalen lijken zoveel op elkaar dat je eigenlijk het gevoel hebt dat je 2x hetzelfde verhaal leest maar dat alleen de details iets aangepast zijn.
De leidraad van het verhaal is in ieder geval precies hetzelfde.
Daarom 2 sterren.
Jammer..
Het is een prima boek als je vooral niet teveel diepte in een verhaal wilt hebben.
Gewoon een easy to read boek voor tussendoor.
Anders gaat hij je denk ik erg tegenvallen.
Il merito del dolce tormento è la tecnica persuasiva di lui.Per Summer e Carlo, in queste due storie romantiche, è il momento di trovare, e svelare alle lettrici della Roberts, qual è l’ingrediente giusto del “per sempre”: l’amore vero.È una coppia di storie romantiche “da regalare” alle amiche e “da regalarsi” per concedersi un magico sogno d’amore.Anche se la Roberts, che preferisco, è quella delle storie un po’ thriller e di suspense, i colpi di scena lei riesce ed inserirli anche qui, in una coppia di romanzi, dove sensualità, amore e ottima cucina si fondono insieme alla perfezione del suo stile e delle sue trame sempre appassionanti.
Originally published separately in 1985 and 1986, they both demonstrate the finer points of Ms. Roberts writing style.
There is little if no suspense but the emotions and issues the characters deal with are believable and provide the tension the reader has come to look for from Ms. Roberts.
Also, I am coming to appreciate more and more the absence of the one-line paragraph that so many authors are succumbing to these days.
That is the question.Summer Desserts: Summer is a pastry chef of some renown and Ms. Roberts explores the fine line between self-confidence and arrogrance, with Summer jumping back and forth across that line, which is both disconcerting and refreshing.

This is two books in one and I would have rated it higher if they hadnt been so very very alike. I enjoyed the writing and the characters and separately would probably have liked them more. I understand that the characters overlap, but to my mind putting the two together is a mistake, as the plots and characters are practically identical. This does tend to come with the genre to an extent, but it's far too obvious here.V Easy reading though, light and steamy, finished both in 24 hours.
This is two books in one and I would have rated it higher if they hadn´t been so very very alike. I enjoyed the writing and the characters and separately would probably have liked them more. I understand that the characters overlap, but to my mind putting the two together is a mistake, as the plots and characters are practically identical. This does tend to come with the genre to an extent, but it's far too obvious here.V Easy reading though, light and steamy, finished both in 24 hours.
A famous dessert chef gets the contract to design a new menu for a hotel and falls for the CEO. In the second story, a straight-laced publicist learns about love from an Italian chef while on tour with his new book. Paperback format only Reprint of two early romances: Summer Desserts and Lessons Learned. Light, easy-to-read romance. Recommended.
I Love All of Nora Roberts Books. But This was great book. Loved the Characters and how different their lives was. But They Came to love one another.
I do enjoy reading Norma Roberts' books.
Summer Desserts: 2,5 starsLessons Learned: 3 stars
It is also interesting to compare this era to now, and see how her writing has matured, and to recall how much the world has changed in the past 20 years.
The romances are typical of the era.
All 4 main characters have to overcome their own past and views of the world to embrace an HEA.The descriptions of the life of a famous chef are interesting, even now after the advent of all the reality cooking shows.
I imagine the life a publicist is even more hectic, with all the social media to manage.
A Novel fro the PastIt was obvious this duo were older novels of Roberts' but they were still fun.
Typical of a Roberts' romance, you know early in the story who the couple will be.These two novels,are tied together with some characters appearing in bit novels.
I enjoyed that ....just a little real life thrown in.In the female leads, you see growth and change as they accept the fact they are falling in love.
Typical but a fun easy read.No cell phones; no computers; no tablets......yet life went on not that many years ago.
Read: June 2016Table for Two is a two-in-one anthology of Nora Roberts’ Great Chefs duology. These are some of her earlier books. Book one; Summer Desserts was first published in 1985 and book two; Lessons Learned in 1986. Both stories are fairly dated by modern standards but still very enjoyable reads with a good plot and likeable main characters. It was pure escapism to pick up Table for Two and disappear for a few hours into 1980s America. Rating: 4.5/5 stars
Not the most interesting of Nora Roberts novels. I found the two stories to be very predictable. Summer Dessert's main character was Summer, a famous chef. She changed her job and worked for Blake the head of a famous hotel chain.The second novel was about Julie, a publicist for a famous Chef, Carlo.Happy endings for both stories.
Ik had hoge verwachtingen bij dit boek. Al veel goeds van de schrijfster gehoord. Maar helaas, het eerste verhaal kon me al niet echt boeien. De personages lagen me ook niet.Bij het tweede verhaal kon ik na hoofdstuk 1 al het einde voorspellen. Dus gelijk doorgegaan naar het laatste hoofdstuk en gestopt.Ik miste verrassende wendingen en gewoon een goed verhaal.
Midway between 3 and 4, upped to 4 because Nora Roberts. The food got me. Oh, yes. I started drooling over chocolate and cream creations in the first story and continued on through linguini in the second.
Nora Roberts always does a great job of drawing you into her characters and it is no different with these two books Summer Deserts and Lessons Learned.. Loved both of them and highly recommend for a good read.
I loved the characters a lot in these two novels. They were unexpected and fun.
My first Nora Roberts book and probably my first romance novel. Not bad. Not overly dramatic, not scandalous. Not super sexual, more romantic.
This book was originally two novellas. These are two wonderful love stories that are not too mushy. Loved the characters. Didn't want the book to end.
Two quite enjoyable stories. I liked how Summer and Blake Cochran made an appearance towards the end of the second story.
I enjoyed Summer Desserts much more than Lessons Learned. I'd give Summer Desserts a 4 and Lessons Learned a 3.
