https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37906597-have-his-carcase
Then she goes on to say, ”What continues to be remarkable about Sayers’ work, however, is her willingness to explore the human condition.”And that, my friends is what draws me back again and again to reading her novels.In addition, despite the fact that women in novels were (at the time) popularly showcased as sweet, innocent, somewhat dim-witted domestic goddesses, Dorothy L.
By the time Lord Peter gets there, all there is left for him to do is form a partnership with Harriet to try and figure out who did the deed and why.
Sayers’ writing – and particularly her Lord Peter Wimsey series.
'ABOUT THIS BOOK: Mystery writer Harriet Vane, recovering from an unhappy love affair and its aftermath, seeks solace on a barren beach -- deserted but for the body of a bearded young man with his throat cut.From the moment she photographs the corpse, which soon disappears with the tide, she is puzzled by a mystery that might have been suicide, murder or a political plot.With the appearance of her dear friend Lord Peter Wimsey, she finds a reason for detective pursuit -- as only the two of them can pursue it.MY THOUGHTS:😍😍😍😍.5 stars for this delightful Whimsey novel that had my brain bouncing all about my head, rather like the ball inside a pinball machine!We have an older woman, desperate for love; her younger lover who wants an empire; and a son who sees his inheritance disappearing into the clutches of a gigolo.
As much as the earlier novels are fun to read, with some very entertaining secondary characters, I think this is really the point where both Harriet and Peter start to acquire the depth that they really need as characters if the reader is supposed to buy their relationship as being able to function on a level other than the standard, trope, Designated Love Interest one.The plot was, I think, overly convoluted, artificial and implausible, although still miles better than, say, Clouds of Witness (I do not think I can ever contemplate the denouement of that book without cringing a little at the sheer implausibility of it.) I'm not sure how it could have been thought to be a suicide at all, given the violence of the death-wound.
We first meet Harriet Vane, crime writer and previously on trial for murder, in, “Strong Poison.” She then vanished in the next novel, “Five Red Herrings,” which I struggled with, and so I was pleased to become re-acquainted with her in this story.The book opens with Harriet Vane on a walking tour, when she finds the body of a man on a beach.
As the investigation unfolds though, nothing seems to be clear cut – there are disappearing witnesses, letters in ciphers and even tales of Bolsheviks… I enjoyed this far more than the previous, “Five Red Herrings.” Harriet Vane was more involved in this plot, but she did not take over and Lord Peter Wimsey had a large part in the investigation.
Continuing my re-read of the Wimsey books.The plot: novelist Harriet Vane takes a walking vacation along the south coast of England to work on the plot of her latest murder mystery, but finds the body of a young man instead.
And what delights are before me--Have His Carcase, Murder Must Advertise, The Nine Tailors and Gaudy Night are, imho, the Golden Age of the Wimsey books.
One of the beauties of Have His Carcase is the introduction of the inside of Harriet Vane's head, which is a delightfully down-to-earth counterpart to Wimsey's flights of fancy.
I realize that the endless back-and-forth with layered theories and time tables and who-done-its and how-done-its is how this book works.
But I think my real problem is that after all that commentary, those layered narratives and fictions, Peter does what Peter does – what a golden age detective does – and tootles off into the sunset, crime and victim(s) slotted in as just another pretty puzzle, just another story.
It’s the opposite of the modern TV crime drama problem, where every episode has a connection to the investigator’s tragical past so that the investigator is the real victim.
It's good but at times in this the Harriet/ Lord Peter banter just got too, too for me.
The part at the beginning when Harriet is just "thinking" on her walk was 5 star.I like these more when they are majority "in company" I think.
Some of the language is truly dated and it holds completely different meanings now- but that was not a deterrent to me, just an observation.
Dago being a favorite and meaning more than just being French or dark Mediterranean or Italian but beyond that "foreign" - only in capital letters.To tell you the truth, this one with all the varying logistics for "no footprints" and "fresh blood" etc.
After being acquitted of murdering her lover, and indeed, in consequence of that acquittal, Harriet Vane found all three specifics abundantly at her disposal; and although Lord Peter Wimsey, with a touching faith in tradition, persisted day in and day out in presenting the bosom for her approval, she showed no inclination to recline upon it.The way Harriet and Peter interact is brilliant (and oh, how good it is to have Harriet saying no to Peter so determinedly, neither falling in love with him instantly because he's that perfect, nor agreeing to him to stop him pestering her which it is implied she did with her previous lover, nor playing him for a fool: she is as honest as she can be about how she feels and doesn't feel, and he doesn't expect or want to play on the clichés of gratitude and so on either), and their (sometimes strained) partnership as a crime-solving duo is awesome.
After her highly-publicized near-conviction in the murder trial of her former lover (in Strong Poison), mystery writer Harriet Vane decides to get away from it all by taking a solitary walking tour in the countryside.
There are no one else's footprints in the sand, but other evidence suggests this was not suicide...Harriet doesn't want to ask Lord Peter, who cleared her name once before, to do it a second time, but he shows up anyway.
This is the type of mystery that has a lot of precise time calculations and decoding of ciphers, which I'm not too interested by, but the dialogue is tightly written and often quite funny.
After reading Gaudy Night and hearing Peter and Harriet refer to "the Wilvercombe affair", I was intrigued and naturally wanted to read more about these two crazy kids solving another mystery.
It looks a lot like a suicide, but a Highly Suspicious One. When there's something strange / In your neighborhood / Who you gonna call?LORD PETER!Yes, his lordship the delightful Peter Wimsey skips into town, and he and Harriet start solving the mystery while having marvelous romantic tension, witty banter, and one explosive fight that was very upsetting for me, even though I've read Gaudy Night and know it all turns out okay.
One must be attentive to realize that the police are regarding Harriet as a suspect, and to see how much she relies on Lord Peter’s devotion and esteem while appearing to reject them.About the mystery: a young man of possibly noble Russian lineage, who works as a paid dancer at a resort, has either committed suicide or been murdered by razor across the throat.
Only one person had a serious motive for murder, which made it not very mysterious for me; all the other suspects seemed to have little reason to be involved.Still, I very much enjoyed the characters and especially the subtle dance between Harriet and Lord Peter.
Another of the BBC's fantastic radioplays.
I'm going to blame essay deadlines and such.Everyone's very well cast, of course, and the plot is easy to follow; maybe easier than when I read it, though I'm not sure if that's the audio or the fact that I have read it before, albeit the novel, not the radioplay adaptation.
Most disgraceful.I love the way Ian Carmichael plays Peter's feelings for Harriet.
And Harriet's dry responses are brilliant.
The attraction for this one is very much the way Harriet and Peter play off each other, not so much the mystery.
I appreciated this one much better this time around. Unlike with most detective stories, I remembered the twist/solution to this one so very well that I thought it must have come a lot earlier in the book than it did!There's a little setup for GAUDY NIGHT in this one, but it doesn't really get into the juicy discussions that make GAUDY NIGHT such an excellent book. It's still an extremely clever and enjoyable mystery about how fact and fiction sometimes affect each other. I'll be writing a full review shortly.
Peter: I just wanted to ask whether you'd given any further thought to that suggestion about marrying me.Harriet (sarcastically): I suppose you were thinking how delightful it would be to go through life like this together?

Maria Aitken and Ian Carmichael do an excellent job, and honestly, that partnership is more the attraction when it comes to this book than the mystery plot.
Though there are some fun puzzles and red herrings in that too, of course.
Still, objectively, Sayers’ books were better when Peter was engaged emotionally, and it isn’t just a puzzle-plot like Five Red Herrings, and that shows with my affection for this one.Originally posted here.
I have read/listened to all the books with Peter and Harriet, all out of order, in the last several months.
I enjoyed this, but I think it is the weakest, at least in terms of the two of them being interesting characters (there’s a little development of their relationship here, but nothing like the depth of Gaudy Night).
In general, though, I enjoyed reading this and the puzzle is complex and rather fun.
Even when not at their best, I do love Peter and Harriet—probably Harriet has pulled ahead in my estimation as I’ve gotten older.

This is my least favorite of the Harriet books - the mystery feels almost needlessly complex, and Harriet and Peter don't interact enough (though the few interactions, especially the fight, are fabulously done).
I love the care Peter takes to try and be fair to Harriet, not to push her, and to do his best by her.
I do think sometimes he’s rather self-pitying, but mostly his sense of humour about it alleviates that.The mystery itself is a fun one to break: if you figure out the key to it too soon, the back and forth as Harriet, Peter and the police try to break the wrong alibis can be a bit infuriating, but it’s also pretty clever.
If you don’t love Peter and Harriet (and mostly their banter), I can’t imagine it being a favourite, but for me… yeah.
I've read this several times over the years. One of my favorites of the Lord Peter Wimsey series.I have always remembered how Harriet Vane finds the victim on her walking tour. Someone coming across a body on a rock/boulder on the beach with a sliced throat is kind of memorable. But I apparently totally forgot about the ending.This was probably my third or fourth (maybe more) reading.
The Peter Wimsey novels are one of the better known golden age mystery series, and the one which gets probably the most literary approval, as well as being known as one of THE great love stories in mysteries.And yet, while it falls well into re-read territory for me (because I like Peter) and I enjoy aspects of the romance (because Peter and Harriet are obviously so well suited to each other), I also at times thoroughly dislike the stories (because Peter is so ridiculously smothered in abilities, and sometimes the technical detail is over-the-top dull) and really dislike the romance.At this point in the Harriet/Wimsey progress, it's a year and a half after Wimsey proved Harriet's innocence.
It wasn't until near the very end that I realised that yes, I actually had read it at some point decades ago.
Personally, I was reminded of The Nine Tailors with its bell-ringing cipher, which wasn't as hard on the old brainbox to listen to as this was.
(Just in passing, at one point even Carmichael gets confused; Bunter, instead of speaking "refeened" Cockney, starts sounding like the local constabulary.
I need to find a printed copy of the book and check to see if Carmichael (or possibly Chivers) felt the need to censor out the obvious qualifier "bloody"--or whether Sayers did it for us.
And if you are going to insist on carrying out the plot in the preposterous way you've planned it, don't, I repeat don't, then come back to the scene of the crime after the murder and hang around long enough for the female detective to spot that she's met you before.
This probably wins my vote for the most unlikely murder plot ever concocted, though good old Lord Peter does his best to justify it all by admiring their triple-strong lines of defence and alibi.Having said all that, it's still a wonderful read.
Due to dogged detective work, Vane and especially her love Lord Peter solve the riddle.While Harriet Vane begins the novel behaving like a prickly prig, by the novel’s end she has shaped herself up into some semblance of a decent person.
If she had continued in the same vein, I don’t know that I could have plodded through 440 pages of ungracious sniping.Have His Carcase isn’t for those who like their mysteries action-packed and direct; however, for those who love a British cozy from the Golden Age, the novel will be just their cup of tea.
This is the first of Sayers's Wimsey novels I've read.
As far as detective novels go, it's interesting, not in the least when the crime being investigated becomes impossible to have been committed.However, what I find more interesting is Sayer's explorations of Wimsey as a person.
I've not yet read Strong Poison (although I rather think I need to now), but reading this, I get an idea I'm looking into at least some facet of Sayers herself.
But I'm sure if nothing else we get some of the environment Sayers moved through, and that in itself is fascinating.So, whether you're looking for a good mystery or character development, I think this one is a winner.
An overly contrived murder-mystery but the banter between Wimsey and Harriet Vane is pure gold.
“I can believe a thing without understanding it.” “Your explanations are more incredible than the problem.”Perhaps the best Lord Peter mystery yet.
Opening the book in the point of view of a female mystery writer gives the story a verisimilitude wanting in previous Lord Peter works, even those featuring Harriet Vane.
Her reflections on how this “real” mystery compares with her fictional ones gives the story extra substance.
As the story progress, Vane is shoved to a supporting role.
“Return to womanliness” “On the basis of economic dependency”“You’ve determined it should be murder.” “Well, suicide seems so dull.”(Apologies for this binge on Lord Peter.
Possibly my favourite Wimsey so far, and the first story to really become a Wimsey and Vane team-up.
While Wimsey is still in charge, Vane is definitely stepping up from just damsel-in-distress love interest to detective in training.
The only downside of this promotion is the loss of much of the beautiful Wimsey-Bunter dialogue of the previous novels, although some of the Wimsey-Vane sniping is almost an acceptable substitute.The plot is suitably complicated - with even Wimsey only really cracking the case in the last few pages - and I wonder if I would have found it as easy to follow all the twists and turns if I couldn't still picture the TV series characters in my mind's-eye.
Also, this book is full of minor characters (never, I think, Vane or Wimsey) being prejudiced against "foreigners." It is clear here that the narrator doesn't agree with the bigoted persons (e.g. they are shown to have faulty logic), and I'm sure it's realistic to have people complaining about "dagos," but still uncomfortable to read about.[My theory -- SPOILERS HERE: Because (1) everyone seemed most certain on the point that the murder must have occurred just before Vane found the body, and (2) Wimsey was so quick to inform Vane that if the blood had all been wet, it was fresh, I suspected the time of the murder.
