https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33607640-the-address
Although it begins in England in 1884, the story shifts quickly to NYC when Sara Smythe takes a job at a new upscale apartment building in New York, The Dakota.
Sara's story alternates with the modern day story in 1985 of Bailey Camden.
At first the main connection of the two time frames was The Dakota until Bailey finds Sara's belongings in the basement of the building and their link becomes so much more .
It could be that I'm just getting a little weary of dual time frame stories which are hard to escape these days.
THE ADDRESS is an engrossing mystery and family drama with a majestic New York City landmark as its backdrop.
The Dakota apartment building on the Upper West Side provides a link between two women one hundred years apart.
I enjoyed learning about the history of The Dakota, as well as trying to figure out the century-old murder mystery presented.
I enjoyed the author's straight-forward writing style, and the twists revealed at the end were simply delicious.
I missed reading Fiona Davis' debut THE DOLLHOUSE last year, and now I definitely want to pick it up.Disclosure: I received a copy of this book through Penguin's First to Read Program.
There’s nothing like a dual timeline-family secret-mystery plot to suck me right in!Certainly, the strongest point of this book was its history - this author has clearly done her research and it shows.
I loved learning all about the Dakota, as well as the architectural development of New York City in the late 19th century.
The Gilded Age is a fascinating time, and having lived in NYC for four years, I love learning about its rich history.
I was definitely engaged in the mystery and wanted to see how the two timelines would come together.
And so the two compelling stories come together with rich historic detail and wonderfully creative characters, revealing the secrets from inside the unique and wonderful Dakota.I had a chance to connect with the lovely Fiona Davis and ask her a few questions about her new and successful career as an author.What has been the high point in your writing journey from the release of The Dollhouse to now?
I’d recommend Eve Chase’s The Wildling Sisters, Jamie Brenner’s The Forever Summer as great vacation/beach reads.Can you tell me a little about what you are working on now?The next book is a similar structure, two times periods with a connecting mystery, set in Grand Central Terminal, and I’m having such a good time researching and writing it.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: Fiona Davis, author of The Dollhouse, returns with a compelling novel about the thin lines between love and loss, success and ruin, passion and madness, all hidden behind the walls of The Dakota—New York City’s most famous residence.After a failed apprenticeship, working her way up to head housekeeper of a posh London hotel is more than Sara Smythe ever thought she’d make of herself.
2.75 starsTwo storylines set one-hundred one years apart and filled with drama! △ Overall, this was an okay read. The writing style was straight-forward and I liked that part of the story demonstrated exactly how poor decisions are repeated within a family circle, but ultimately, I lost interest after Sara was admitted to the asylum. I liked the idea of this story, but it didn't fully hold my interest and I didn't really connect with the characters.△ Although this story wasn't for me, I'd still recommend it.
This book kept me guessing, but I was a little disappointed at the abrupt twists and turns of the story for which there were little warning signs.
People in the story had dissonant character changes; for example, more than one person seemed to morph into evil beings just to bring the story to the writer's successful conclusions.
I really loved the first half until these sudden changes occurred.
The story of the modern day girl was more successful than the girl from the past.
The woman from the 1880s seemed to fall into bed rather easily for a woman from that era.
Wealthy families had built magnificent homes there, and more construction was underway.
It was one of the first luxury multi family residences to be constructed on the Upper West Side of New York.
She agreed to come to New York at the request of architect Theodore Camden.
Sara hopes this new position will provide opportunities for a better life.
Her cousin, Melinda Camden, has hired Bailey to redecorate her apartment in the Dakota.
She decides that it is time to uncover the truth about her family’s history.Author Fiona Davis’ well written novel evokes a real sense of place as she weaves together a story about two women whose lives are connected even though the distance between them spans a century.
The first half was entertaining.
The second half, not.
Those two protagonists were not core formed to depth characterizations at all- they seemed as merely flat 30 something Manhattan up and coming "cut outs".
The formula Fiona Davis holds for the "building category" core of her novels or home place structure- that's a good one and it does work, even here.
Bloodlines might have, but with the depth of those characters connected in particular within this particular "truth" revealed in the last chapter?
This balance of novel between romance, adventure,mystery etc.
The title is cleverly drawn from a review of the building following its opening in 1885 in which the reviewer stated that “the Dakota will undoubtedly be known as ‘The Address’ of New York’s West Side.” Davis melds historical events with a spectacular tale of greed, passion, love and sacrifice told in a dual timeline format alternating between the mid-1880’s and 1985.
The ending of The Address was spectacular because Davis cleverly connects the two tales and includes a surprise I never saw coming.
I didn't have a hard time finishing it but the book seemed to lack that something extra that really seems to grab my attention.This story is told through dual timelines.
Sara's story was really just so much more than Bailey's and anytime the book made the switch to 1985, I found myself wanting to put it down.
Bailey was not as easy to like as Sara.
Bailey did grown on my by the end of the book but I still always preferred Sara's story.I think that a lot of readers will enjoy this one a bit more than I did.
This is an engaging work of historical fiction and a great travel read if you want to escape for a few hours.
We are introduced to Sara Smythe in London while some life changing events happen, that ultimately lead her to a new job and residence at the Dakota.
The additional timeline is approximately 100 years later as Bailey Camden recovers from her own life-changing events that lead her to a job and temporary residence, overseeing a renovation at the Dakota in 1985.Bailey and Sara are both searching for answers and doing their best to take control of their own lives.
This book bounces between 1884 and 1985.
Also prominent in the novel is the "Dakota", a magnificent apartment building built in New York City in 1885.
As this building passes from generation to generation, within the Camden family, more questions are raised and more answers are found.
Likeable characters, nice plot twists, and just the right amount of side issues put into the story to make it enjoyable.
She used a number of real places and situations and real people to tell this story.
Thank you to First-to-Read for allowing me to read and review this book.
This is a good old fashioned historical novel centering around the a young woman in service trying to better her lot in life at the Dakota in NYC during the gilded age and another young woman trying to do the same during the 1980's. It has the requisite events that echo through the decades. Prepare yourself for a good ride.
I really enjoyed the beginning of the book with all the details of how The Dakota came to be, so much so that I'll be looking to read more books about the building.There were a few things that I didn't like about the book.
I'm not a big fan of books like that.
Second, having just read 10 Days in a Madhouse by Nellie Bly, I was pretty surprised to see her show up in this book as a secondary player.
Nellie Bly description of the all women's asylum was horrific, while Fiona Davis description of the asylum was almost pleasant.
I was never a huge fan of historical fiction before I read her books and I have her to thank for opening my eyes to yet another amazing genre.
I’ve read so much more HF this past year and I don’t know if I would’ve without reading The Dollhouse, so thanks Fiona Davis for expanding my world!Having been such a fan of her debut I had that nervous feeling I always feel when I’m about to read an authors sophmore book.
Thank you Prenguin RandomHouse for the ARC.When this book comes out try and find a copy.  Fiona Davis has written another fast paced and engaging story about the city of New York. This time the story was based around the famous apartment building The Dakota. I have been wanting to see the inside for years because I am interested in Guilded Age/Victorian Era architecture. And this building probably has some great stories to tell.This story grabs you at first go an immerses you into a world brilliantly written by Davis.
The construct of novels set in multiple time periods lends a natural suspense, but it is rare that each time holds the same level of intrigue for the reader.
THE ADDRESS, by Fiona Davis, however, succeeds where many other dual period novels fail; both story lines are fully developed and equally compelling.Lovers of New York City will thrill over period details–delighting in imagining the beginnings of the Dakota and the city at large–and will enjoy learning about the famous men and women who lived within the great halls of one of its most famous landmarks.Through dialogue and description, Davis moves with ease between the centuries, clearly showing the challenges of each time while illustrating the connections between the past and the present.
Those who enjoy dual period novels and stories from the Gilded Age will devour THE ADDRESS.
Solid 4.5. This was a great book and I really enjoyed reading it. I love the details that the author gave of both worlds, 1885 New York and 1985 New York. The story of Sara Smythe was very well written, and although Bailey Camden's story was a bit annoying at first (maybe everyone was annoying in the 1980's) over time I came to like it and her and she redeemed herself. I've been on a huge historical fiction kick this year, and this is a very worthy entry. I look forward to reading more from Fiona Davis.
Review to follow.
The Dollhouse by Fiona Davis was a book that I had seen over and over again in the past year, so, when I found out that Davis had her sophomore novel, The Address, publishing this month, I added it to my top of my TBR pile and hopped on the Fiona Davis bandwagon.I do not read a ton of historical fiction so I wasn’t sure what to expect; however, when I started reading, I quickly discovered that Fiona Davis is a masterful storyteller with the capability to completely entrance her reader.I was transported back to 1884, where, after a chance run in with a wealthy American family, Sara decides to back up her life and move to America to be the head of house at The Dakota.
So I took a little break and opened it this morning and never looked back.I think one of my favorite moments in the book was the reference to Nellie Bly.
Bailey's journey to the end of the book was also a pleasure to watch.The author really brings you a sense of both historical times - the 1880's and the 1980's to where you feel like you're right there - a fly on the wall watching the scenes in front of you.
There's a thousand things I could go on and on about this book but I fear it would spoil it for those of you who haven't read this yet.
The Address is exactly – EXACTLY – the same formula as “The Dollhouse.” I enjoyed The Dollhouse and was forgiving of the [incredibly stupid] actions of the 2 protagonists, 60 years apart.
The 2 women protagonists (100 years apart) in The Address are of above average intelligence and skills, yet they continuously make poor choices and down right stupid decisions.
The history of women’s issues in that time period was brought out pretty well, but Davis didn’t really relate or compare and contrast those with issues in 1985.Sara, our protagonist from 1885, was pretty sympathetic although really stupid.
Characterization was “wooden”, I guess.I do not recommend this book and will probably mark Fiona Davis off my to-read list.
I liked reading about the Dakota, a building I've always wanted to visit but I don't generally like dual timeline stories. I find them contrived and one is always better than the other. In this case I preferred the story set in 1884 to the one set in 1985 until it turned into a romance novel with obvious consequences. At that point I gave up on it. Women's fiction and I just do not get along. I should have been warned. I received a free copy of this book from the publisher.
Davis presented her story via the dual perspectives and timelines of Sara Smythe, an English immigrant in 1885 and Bailey Camden, party girl turned interior designer in 1985.
Given the chance to restart, she makes the most of her new opportunity, but when curiosity strikes her, she finds more than she expected underground.Verdict: B, Melodrama mashed with a straight-forward story of the aforementioned themes in an given Aaron Spelling series kept me interested as it would another reader.CharactersOutside of your basic characters, like her father, a love interest, and cousin, focus stayed on three characters: Sara Smythe and Bailey Camden.
Before you start the book, Google images of the Dakota apartment building NYC so you can see the cool building at the center of this novel.
Again, Davis splits the story between modern-day and the late 1880's.
The stories of Sara and Bailey are well constructed, with just a couple holes I wish they would have filled in regarding Sara's background.
I'm not an architecture buff by any means but was fascinated to read Theodore's thoughts about how NYC needs to expand which, we learn in the epilogue, was actually drawn from Edward Clark’s 1879 speech to the West End Association.
This is my second Fiona Davis book and I really like her. The Dakota is a new building in the 1880's and it lures Sara Smythe from England to manage the property and make it into the exclusive refine place to live of NYC. She is the victim of injustices mostly because she is a woman. Fast forward to 1980's and Bailey ends up hired to remodel one of the apartments in the Dakota. She finds herself discovering truths long hidden about the architect and the woman building manager. I enjoyed this story and recommend it highly.
I found another favorite author! Gosh, I loved that book. So much was going on, there are a lot of unexpected developments. To think what one can do to achieve a so-called perfect life, and how it could bring the worst — or the best — in people...Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for my e-copy of this book.
3.5 StarsEnjoyable historical fiction (late 1880s) that also includes a more modern storyline as well (1980s).
I thought centering the story around a historical building that is still standing was a great move.
I liked reading all about the Dakota and it's then innovations for the time.
New York at this time in history is always interesting.
I did like the cameo appearances of several real life people from that time period, such as reporter Nellie Bly. The stories ended up intertwined nicely by the end and covered a lot of different struggles had by single women, and people in general during the era.
Davis includes a sprinkling of history alternating the 1880's with the 1980's though it's the older story that was most compelling.
Though the storylines deal with serious topics the book remains escapist in feel.You'll most likely be familiar with some of the history don't miss the author's notes at the end where she lists where she learned of the real life folks in the story or got the idea for confabulating some real and made open characters.
Some of the h DNA science Davis cites doesn't seem realistic to me but I'm no expert in this area.
