https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325451.Doctor_Dolittle_in_the_Moon
There are some very complex passages for a children’s book; for example, it begins with a meditation about what the writer expects from the reader and vice versa.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه دسامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: داستانهای دکتر دولیتل - در ماه - جلد 10 از 12؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 8 است؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، محراب قلم، 1385؛ در 239 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789643239152؛ موضوع: داستانهای مصور کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیس قرن 20 مداستان دکتر دولیتل، در هنگامه ی جنگ جهانگیر نخست و در سنگر نوشته شد.
داستان دکتر دولیتل پس از جنگ، به صورت کتاب منتشر شد.
It takes up the story directly from the end of the previous volume, Doctor Dolittle's Garden.The storyline changed rather radically in the middle of the book; it represented a profound shift in tone.
Here's the important thing: I read Doctor Dolittle in the Moon to my son, Sebastian, aged seven.
We've read the previous seven volumes over the last two or three years, and some of them were more or less interesting than others, but Doctor Dolittle in the Moon took the prize.
yes, it's a children's book about a man who talks to animals (and plants, in this case).
it's also a collection of nice drawings.
what i love it for, however, is lofting's thoughtful imaginings of what life would be like on the moon, not only the phantasmagorically evolved giant trees and moths (good indoctrination in Darwinism, too), but also what it would feel like to walk in low gravity, how far you could go in a step, to what extent the curvature of a smaller sphere would be evident to one used to the earth's size.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2704151.htmlIt's a very short book, the eighth of the series of twelve books about the Doctor who learns to talk to animals.
The Doctor leantrs to talk to lunar plants, applying the techniques he has long employed for animals on Earth.
It's interesting to note that the plants of the moon submit to a centrally planned schedule of reproduction so as to avoid exhausting their world's natural resources, but probably this should be read as vaguely utopian rather than anything more specific.
This was my favorite Dr. Dolittle book. I remember it well, nearly 60 years later.It set my mind on fire, because it was the same time that President Kennedy was promising to send a man to the moon, back when he was running for office in 1959. Damn, I'm old.
Yams turn you into a giant.
Fiction,Children's fiction
