https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107503.The_Cape_Cod_Mystery
1931, #1 Asey Mayo, with Miss Prudence Whitsby, Cape Codnasty author gets his head bashed in - well, he *did* seem to enjoy making enemies, so there's lots of suspects, including several of Miss Prudence's visitors - and friends; classic small-town cosy mystery, three-and-one-half stars.When author Dale Sanborn rents the little cottage back of Miss Prudence Whitsby's comparatively palatial (for 1931) one, most folks just thought it might make things "interesting..." over the summer - he had a habit of stirring things up where-ever he went, and this summer is no exception.
Found a day after his arrival lying on the floor of his summer home, wrapped in a blanket and with his head bashed in, numerous suspects make their appearance and weave back and forth through the story, as Taylor slowly builds up a tale of cruelty and kindness, new beginnings and old memories.
I am not convinced that his characters bear any resemblance to human beings, though I am given to understand that he takes his stories from life.”Sanborn does not make a good impression on Prudence, Betsey, and their friends, but they cannot avoid him since he has rented the tiny cabin on the same property as the cottage.
To quote Prudence, who has known him most, if not all of her life: ”Asey was the kind of man everybody expects to find on Cape Cod and never does.
The murder of an unpleasant man.
The story of the murder of an evil man who appeared pleasant on the outside, was a real freak about his dislike of sardines.
And they all seem to know Dale Sanborn.
“Any one who knew Dale Sanborn would know in an instant he didn’t just die.
They say some people were born to be hanged.
Dale Sanborn was born to be murdered.
Because every one who knew him had a good reason for killing him.”This book was a little dated, includes references to Dr. Fell, one of my favorite characters.
But interesting, except it seemed to take a little long to wind up.
A new author for me, this story is like taking a little vacation to Cape Cod and meeting the most interesting people.
Asey is the quintessential Cape Cod-er, full of stories and sayings and wisdom all spoken in the perfect New England dialect.
He sets to solving the case with inventive ways of obtaining information and suspects.There are many suspects as there are so many who did not like the murdered man.
With this as her first book written at age 22, Miss Atwood continued to write a total of 33 books.
Just discovered this mystery series set on Cape Cod, and written by a young woman in the 1930's. It's folksy, dated and filled with local color and charm. Fun to read a story and learn about some old expressions and styles. This was a decent mystery to boot. I'm interested in continuing with this series - I like to intersperse my reading with light mysteries, especially those set in New England. The series is readily available although the books were originally published so long ago - so Taylor must have a following. Recommend.
Wonderful mystery. A lot like the original Nancy Drew mysteries. Written in the 1930's but a classic who done it. Fast easy read, enjoyable and I didn't figure out the murderer! First book in the series.. on to the next!
Set on my beloved Cape Cod, Phoebe Atwood Taylor definitely mixes in bits of local flavor while also giving the reader a strong murder mystery.The fact that this was written (and therefore set) in the summer of 1931, is both delightful and at times, unsettling.
One of the main characters explains that "there's no garbage collection on the Cape," so people either burn or bury their trash.
Mystery books that are well-written that also give insight into a certain time in history (because of when they were written), as well as local flavor (because of the author's familiarity with that specific location) are a gem.
Bin to some of the places mentioned, summers. Enjoyed reading it. Lots of twists and turns but rather then spoil it I'll tell you the butler did not do it😈
Time to start rereading these oldie but goodies.
Prudence, die Icherzählerin der Geschichte, verbringt ihre Ferien in einem kleinen Häuschen auf Cape Cod, gemeinsam mit ihrer Nichte Betsey, der Köchin Olga und dem Kater Ginger.
Asey kann sich den Luxus eines Daueraufenthaltes auf Cape Cod erlauben, wie später noch herauskommen wird.
Hier hängt der Entdecker eines Toten nicht wie in modernen Krimis würgend über dem Blumenbeet, sondern die Damen fallen wirkungsvoll in Ohnmacht und werden mit Ammoniakdüften wiederbelebt.
Autos haben Räder mit hölzernen Speichen und unterscheiden sich offenbar so wenig von Kutschen, dass aus einem erfolgreichen Kutschenbauer ein erfolgreicher Automobilproduzent wird, dessen Nachfolger Bill mit zum Detektivpersonal des Krimis gehört.
She puts that inside knowledge to good use in recreating the local culture there in the 1930s and 1940s.Taylor has my undying respect for her work ethic of writing her novels between midnight and three a.m. after her "housekeeping day" had ended, although her habit of waiting to start a book until three weeks before the publisher's deadline would give me a heart attack.The Cape Cod Mystery was fairly successful in its day, selling 5,000 copies, and introduced the "Codfish Sherlock", Asey Mayo, who went on to star in 24 of Taylor's novels.
Wordy and slow-paced, but a light read nonetheless. I will read more of this author.
This is the first book in the Asey Mayo series by Phoebe Atwood Taylor.
I've read one other book in the series and I was intrigued enough to start from the beginning.
I thought the characters were quite interesting and although I pretty much guessed the ending fairly early on (which I almost never do), I rather enjoyed the plot and the wily insight of Mr. Mayo.
I really liked this book and will certainly look for more of the series at our local library.
The Asey Mayo mystery series by Phoebe Atwood Taylor is back in print, and I decided to try a few.
The Cape Cod Mystery was Asey's first outing.
This entry is written in the first person as told by Miss Prudence Whitsby, Cape Cod native and hostess to visiting summer guests--one of whom commits a murder.
He and Miss Prudence gather evidence, assess the multiplying suspects, and eventually turn up the murder weapon, despite interference from assorted suspects and the local doctor.
I'm trying another Asey Mayo, 1942's The Six Iron Spiders, to see how the character evolved.
In this his first case a man renting a cottage on the Cape is found murdered.
As the story moves along we find almost all the characters have a reason and a good one to murder this ne-er do well.
How Asey Mayo delves into the lives of all those living on the Cape and those renting is what makes this series/story such a joy to read.The characters all know each other very well and the atmosphere is relaxed and personable.
Loved it and can't wait to re-read my next Asey Mayo mystery.

Asey Mayo , he such a good Character and smart how he could solve the murders mystery so much .
Miss prudence , is the main character an she is with Asey most of the time and they are on a adventure in a type of way , trying to Solve this murder mystery and it give me a thrilling feeling in a way .
Now the mystery , dale sanborn gets killed .
And I loved it when Asey and prudence go everywhere to get clues and try to solve this murder .
Didn't like it.
In spite of not being impressed with the characters, I was going to finish this book, until I ran into the dialect writing in the character of Asey Mayo.
Now dialect writing is so difficult to do well that when a writer like Mark Twain did it successfully he became the nation's favorite author.
For most all other writers, it turns a character into a 'character' - a stilted stereotype.
No, Phoebe Taylor was not the American Agatha Christie.
Diehard cozy fans will probably like this book - it's just not for me.
First in a series featuring Asey Mayo, a jack-of-all-trades, set in the Cape Cod area. An author comes to the area and gets murdered. It turns out the author is a nasty type of person and probably deserved to die but Mayo's friend is accused of the murder so Mayo has to find the real killer before the police railroad his friend to prison. Mayo's dialect is rather hard to read sometimes but overall the story is very good and the characters decently well rounded. Pretty good for a starter novel to introduce the character.
Miss Prudence Whitsby thinks there's something unpleasant about the young man who just rented a small cabin near the cottage where she and her niece, and two selected friends, are summering. He's a novelist, and she wasn't able to finish his much-talked-about early novel. Finding him dead doesn't make him rate higher, either, especially when her niece's beau Bill Porter is arrested. Fortunately, Bill's hired man Asey Mayo comes seeking her help, and she finds out how much more than a hired man Asey can be, in his first major case.
Lighthearted summer reading. Taylor wrote in the 40s and these little mysteries were also comedies of manners. The characters are mostly uncomplicated straight forward Yankees. For anyone who wants to read about the old Cape and imagine Wellfleet and Chatham before the modern toruist trade and fights over wind power and traffic. Taylor's Cape was an altogether gentler world --- if one filled wiht a little mayhem and the occasional murder
Though this is technically the first in the series, it is not the first in the series that I read. I really enjoyed the story and characterization (as I always do in her books), but it was most fun to see how she introduced the characters that I have become very familiar with. If you're looking for a mystery novel that will make you laugh out loud, this one (indeed, the whole series) will do that.
I figured this would be a perfect book to read while on vacation on the Cape, and it was in fact pretty good. Written in the 1930s (the beach chair shown on this cover is totally misleading- not only is it way too modern, but I don't recall anyone in the book ever going to the beach at all), it was sort of interesting in a historical way (warning: the "N" word is used, once, quite casually). Not bad, rather Agatha Cristie-like.
My First Asey MayoHaving read most of the Leonidas Weatherall mysteries, I was expecting something similar from this series. I was way off base. While the mix-ups and mistaken identities are here, they are much darker. Being from New England myself, I very much enjoyed the local sites described as well as many of the characterizations. I found myself, if possible, an even bigger fan of Taylor after reading this novel than I was before.
A vintage mystery published in 1931, this was fun to read. It was not action packed, but it was full of interesting characters and old Cape Cod charm. Asey Mayo is quite a guy and quite an amateur sleuth! This is the first in the Asey Mayo series.
If you enjoy Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers this is a must read. Published in 1931 the time period and setting are very well illustrated. Not the fastest pace but still a fun read.http://iwishilivedinalibrary.blogspot...
Wonderful book. I not only feel like I went to Cape Cod, I was there in the 1930s. Can't wait to read the next one, "Death Lights a Candle." Thanks to Carolyn Harts "Death on Demand" series for introducing me to this author.
1931 old fashioned caper. Great setting. Want to find more.
Had a hard time keeping my interest but I kept reading this till the end!!!
I enjoy a light summer mystery read for the beach.. This book lived up to my expectations. I plan on reading more.
