https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563458.Fallen_Hearts
This was just a really enjoyable continuation of the story. It's true that the same plot points are visited over and over, but the characters are just as endearing as ever. It was interesting to get a closer look into the rivalry between Fanny and Heaven and it was nice to finally see Heaven come into her own.
When Virginia became seriously ill while writing the Casteel series, she began to work even harder, hoping to finish as many stories as possible so that her fans could one day share them.
Beginning with the final books in the Casteel series they worked closely with a carefully selected writer to organize and complete Virginia's stories and to expand upon them.
The novels that may have been begun by Andrews and finished by Neiderman were Garden of Shadows, Fallen Hearts, Gates of Paradise, and Web of Dreams.
Mais um volume da continuação da saga da família Casteel, em que a vida de Heaven continua a atravessar altos e baixos, aparecendo surpresas ao virar de cada esquina.É interessante ler uma trama passada há bastantes anos, no tempo em que não haviam telemóveis, computadores, internet, etc; e verificar que mesmo sem estas modernices se conseguia criar uma história que nos prende até à última página e que nos faz sentir um turbilhão de emoções.Sinto que a Heaven e o Logan já fazem parte dos meus dias e já tenho o próximo volume a postos para ler.
Even though this wasn't written by the great V C herself, I still loved every bit of this.
C. Andrews could write.
I'm afraid nobody can replace that.However, this was a great imitation, and fed my hunger to discover how Heaven's tragic life story continues.I just can't get enough of these southern gothic melodramas.
The need to devour these books remains as strong as it did when I picked up Flowers in the Attic as a 12 year old girl.
I felt the story stayed true to the first two books and was every bit as trashy, dramatic and surprising as any genuine V.
C. Andrews novel.
Truly, I was pleasantly surprised.
Tony Tatterton the master manipulator. Eh to the crap character of Logan and yes to Troy and Heaven!
Great book! The installments in this series just keep getting better and better. I can't believe I didn't read this when I was younger!
why do I read this stuff? it's horrible, yet I can't look away. :head:slap
I know this was the ghostwriter's first crack at VC Andrews style and tried to give him leeway on some things, but as when I first read this when I was a teen (oh so long ago) I didn't enjoy this book and couldn't get into it.
Heaven was not the same person I remembered her to be and said and did things totally not within her character from the first two books.
There were inconsistencies in the book as well, like Troy and what exactly happened to him in Dark Angel, and Jillian and her fate which I don't think fit with her character from Dark Angel.
2.5 starsI enjoy these books less and less as the series goes on.Wow, these books are legit a soap opera in written form.(view spoiler)[ I mean a character literally rises from the dead in this installment and if that's not a total soap opera trope I don't know what is.
(hide spoiler)]I also really dislike Logan and I liked him even less in this installment.
(hide spoiler)]If the next installment didn't follow new characters I would probably give up on this series here.
It's not like the first two books in this series were fine literature, but when the ghostwriter took over, the quality really went downhill. The same phrases and themes cropped up over and over, and got really repetitive. Plus, I thought the characters were out-of-character. At least this one had less incest.
I read the earlier V.C. Andrews books when I was growing up. I think they helped to prepare me for what I could find behind closed doors while completing assessments as a social worker...:)
Kalbėsiu apie trečią ir ketvirtą rašytojos V.C. Andrews Kastylų serijos dalis/ Trečioji vadinasi – „Apviltos širdys“, ketvirtoji – „Rojaus vartai“.
Jos senelė Džilian ir netikras senelis Tonis ją priima į turtingus namus, ji gauna gerą išsilavinimą.
Trečiojoje dalyje, Heven susituokusi su savo vaikystės meilė Loganu gyvena senelių dvare, kartu su jais.
Tiesa, kaip jau esu rašiusi, šios knygos nėra parašytos pačios Andrews.
Tai rašytojo, rašiusio jos vardu po pačios autorės mirties kūriniai.
Dabar manę laukai paskutinioji Kastylų šeimos sagos dalis – „Svajonių gijos“ Joje bus kalbama apie Heven mamos jaunystę ir papasakota pačios Heven istorijos priešistorė.
Fanny makes me so freaking angry. Can she just disappear? Logan also made me angry as well like come on man! The only character that I can sometimes stand is heaven. She makes a lot of stupid mistakes but she's not that annoying.
Doubtless Fallen Hearts might have been a bit different if VCA had been able to finish this story before her untimely death.
Neiderman didn't keep all the facts straight from Dark Angel, as the exact details of Troy's death/return, and nearer the end of Fallen Hearts, the writing feels a bit more distinctly different.However, this is still a decent continuation of the Casteel saga.
Having the truth revealed (that Leigh wasn't the little tramp that Troy made her out to be) felt good.
I know some VCA fans might disagree, but it felt somehow appropriate to me that Heaven would be with Troy one last time.
Ok, the plot was good for this third installment of the Casteel series.
I like Heaven's character.
For instance, she was too soft when it came to Luke's character.
The man whom she thought was her father never loved her, yet she put that man in som kind of pedestal.
Then her husband Logan cheats on her by sleeping with her sister Fanny.
Had that been me, I would've said bye-bye to this Logan.
So, in my opinion, Heaven is a good person, but sometimes i thought she was stupid on some aspects.
Can't wait to read the next installment.
The plot thickens in this third book of the Casteel saga. So many twists, surprises, drama, mystery, you name it! There were times when I wanted to cry, others when I wanted to throw something to the wall, and of course others when I wanted to close the book so the drama would stop.Heaven goes through SO much in this book (yes, so-much!), I again feel sorry for all the things that happen to her and being surrounded by people who are plain evil.I hated Fanny more than ever, that obnoxious, selfish and I-won't-use-other-words girl. I just want to
2.5 stars on this one.
Still CRAZY (eww, Heaven's father/step-grandfather put the moves on her, and there's courtroom drama, straight out of a soap opera!) but by this third book in the series, you're starting to roll your eyes a little.
I can't really put my finger on Logan's character--first book he's sweet, second book he acts like a jerk, and then this third one...sure he's married Heaven, but he's a little too eager to adopt the wealthy lifestyle, AND he sleeps with Fanny (who is not only Heaven's sister, but is so completely annoyed).
Genialne..jak zwykle poruszające,dramatyczne,drazniace...Fanny jest postacią wg. mnie najbardziej pokrzywdzona i tak bardzo mi jej żal.Nie umiem zloscic się za jej postępowanie wobec siostry.Jak może kochać..jak może cokolwiek rozumieć,gdy nikt jej tego nie nauczył.Heaven ma zupełnie inna osobowość,szła dzielnie przez życie...dopiela swego.Nigdy nie pomogła Fanny,by stała się inna osoba.Nie mogła na nikogo liczyć,sama,otoczona ludźmi lekkich obyczajów...Szczerze też,bardzo bym chciała by Troy odnalazł szczęście,gdyż razem z Fanny zasługują na to czego nigdy nie mieli.
The first two books in this series were not as good as the "Dollanganger" series or "My Sweet Audrina", but there were still good. Like "Gardens of Shadows" this book was started by V.C. Andrews and finished by Andrew Neiderman and it was the weakest in the series, with characters occasionally getting a little out of character. It wasn't terrible but it wasn't very good either and I rate it 4/10 stars. There are two more books, in this series, and they are both written completely by Andrew Neiderman. I will not be reading them.
The Casteel series was my favorite, more than the Flowers in the Attic series. But as much as I loved Heaven and her books back then, I know I started getting fed up with the same plot points over and over, like the mean and greedy sister who would purposely hurt the main character, the untrustworthy father, and the wonderful boyfriend who eventually cheated but was sorry....although, if you enjoy V.C. Andrews. then this is a great series!Not anything that I would read now...but I loved these books when I was younger.
Heaven and Logan finally had they're beautiful wedding but then Tony assaults Heaven again. All Heaven wants to do is be happy and loved by Logan and do her teaching. But Tony lures them back and Logan thinks Heaven would be happy being around the lavish lifestyle she gave up. It all threatens to take away the happiness she has fought so hard for.
I really enjoyed the first two books but I hated how everything got reiterated. That never happened in the dollanger series and didn't happen after the first book. It was almost a struggle to get through in some parts where as the other two books I read quickly. I do like the characters though and I enjoyed the few twists it had.
Told you Logan was a big stupid jerk. Plus one star for the parts with Troy in them. I'd say half related is less important than finding someone who is NOT A BIG STUPID JERK. Jeez, why am I still so emotional about this?But seriously. He is the worst.
obviously this book was written by the ghostwriter. the characters have no dimensions, while i always thought Heaven was kind of a cry baby she did make herself a good case here for redemption. Logan and Fanny both still are awful.
one of the best, most loved series/authors of all time. V.C. Andrews books are something so easily recognizable and new books continue to evolve to go with the times and bring in a whole new generation of loving readers
I really enjoyed this book. Very we'll written and a great story.
(Rating based on my remembered feelings when I read this book as a 14 year old.)
Trashy teen read. Yep.
This book is magnificent; wonderful characters and unforgettable scenes. You will remember it long after you have finished it.
v.c. andrews books are all absolutely amazing and very easily distinguishable from any other authors. i love the darkeness, secrets, lies, very addicting, i have almost every single book!
