https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12868761-let-s-pretend-this-never-happened
I wrote this book so I think I'm required to like it. But I'd like it even if someone else wrote it. Although if they did I'd sue them for stealing my life story.How confusing.Much like the book.
I can't help feeling like this book was all written in a single sitting, with little editing or review.
Lawson knows how to structure a story, she's just not choosing to do it most of the time.
But given that this is a book, it feels like a lot of the narrative flailing could have been avoided through editing.
We definitely get a good grasp of what it's like to be inside Lawson's head, but she finds her condition exhausting and for a whole book, so did I.
Second, the audio version is read by the author.
Fourth, several times I sat in the car after I'd finished whatever trip I was taking just to continue listening to the audiobook.
Fifth, driving around, listening to this audiobook, I missed the proper turnoff several times.
I didn't mind much, because turning around and driving back the right way gave me more time to listen to the book.
Lastly, I'd like to say that while I've read some of Jenny's blog, and I know of her considerably fame as The Bloggess, I didn't pick this book up because I was a fan.
This is the most hilarious vagina memoir ever written.
This book is not suitable for people who dislike frequent interjections of words beginning with "f" and ending with "u-c-k." And I mean with no letters in between the "f" and the "u-c-k," so "firetruck" doesn't count.
So just to be clear: To my knowledge there is no use of the word "firetruck" in this memoir.
(I know, most people call them bobcats, but I prefer to use robertcat until we get to know each other better.)So be impressed.
This book is chock full of curse words, and I managed to write my review without officially using any of them.
shit.okay, so i thought i should give you a sense of her lunacy even though you could just go to her blog and see it, and even though it is totally illegal for me to do so since i only have the ARC, but i am kind of banking on the hope that that is one of those mattress-tag laws and no one will actually come and arrest me, although i would love to see what book prison is like.
She will say something totally exaggerated and in a hysterical voice, and then she tells a 30-minute story, after which you realize the thing that actually happened has nothing to do with what she claimed happened.For example, when Jenny says: "I was attacked by a bear last night!" What she really means is: "I saw a stray cat by the pool."When Jenny says: "I was mauled by a pack of wild dogs!" What she means is: "The neighbor's pet was excited to see me."When Jenny says: "I was stabbed in the face by a serial killer!" She means: "The cat sat on my head while I was asleep."Halfway through the book, I realized Jenny Lawson is a fabulist and a narcissist.Put another way, Jenny Lawson is a very successful blogger.
I was exhausted just reading your book.At this point I need to clarify, as Jenny often does after she has made an absurd statement, that there are some funny stories here.
From the (boring) I loved that it was an honest look at mental illness and survival (very true) to the (no seriously I can not wait) YOU LET MY CHILD READ THIS AND NOW THEY WANT A DEAD SQUIRREL PUPPET and THIS BOOK IS BLASPHEMY AND READING IT KILLS PUPPIES AND KITTENS.I pretty much giggled in excitement when I won the advance copy, and then waited not really patiently to get my copy and then it came and I was away and that basically destroyed me and there was a 3 day long emotional trauma period.
Overall Rating: 1.5I don’t know if it’s specifically American problem, but let me tell you, this is one of the worst memoirs I’ve read.
(Seriously America, do you honestly find this funny?
I have no idea who this individual(Jenny Lawson) is, but the whole book was one big mess, full of stories that were meant to be funny and unique (but were neither).
Maybe for someone living in modern America it’s rarity to have to collect water in a cistern or to have wild animals for pets, etc, etc.
I read lots of memoirs, but something about Jenny Lawson’s Let’s Pretend this Never Happened was different.
REALLY DIFFERENT!
It’s not just the messed up lives thing which seems to be a prerequisite for memoir writers.
In case you were wondering, though, dysfunctionality thrives in this book.
This dysfunctionality and the bizarre way it manifests energizes Lawson.
How Lawson faces this reality, a really skewed and messed up version of reality (but probably the one we’re all in denial about) quickly approaches and passes warped!
Good read!
I laughed so hard in parts I shed tears (and a little pee I think).
But then I went to look at the snakeskin, and I was all, "This is a used paper towel." Then Victor said, "Dude.
That's totally a snakeskin that's been shed.
You can tell it's a paper towel because snakeskins aren't square.
Or perforated." And I spread it out on the ground and then he was all, "Huh. That is a fucking paper towel.
I think we need a new exterminator." We're probably not going to survive the year.
I think there might be something wrong with my sense of humor. I tried to read this book but it's not making me laugh. In fact, it's making me annoyed. It reminds me of a whiny nagger who is all about "me". Oh right, it's a memoir. Anyway, I jumped to some of the chapters to see if I missed anything funny but it was all the same. I'm giving away my copy in the hope that someone may find it funny and not completely waste the tree that this book was printed on.
Wanna laugh????
Jenny Lawson shares stories of growing up in rural Texas, with a loving (albeit overly-enthusiastic) taxidermist for a father and a sister who grinned and bore it with her.
Lawson writes about meeting her husband for the first time and seeing his confused looks as he becomes more and more familiar with the idiosyncrasies of her colorful family.She also shares her debilitating social anxiety, recounting funny "awkward moment" stories from parties and social situations.
They're hilarious but also touching.I suspect Lawson has always turned to comedy as a way to help alleviate her suffering...
This girl is FUNNY.
I’m not sure what I enjoyed more about this book.
The actual laughing to tears moments while reading or the actual laughing to tears moments while retelling the stories to my boyfriend (who kept mentioning that he and Victor have a lot in common).
It says a great deal about Jenny Lawson (of blogging fame) that at 38, she was able to write a 300+ page memoir that is interesting to read.
I would recommend this book … to people with a dark sense of humor who do not mind stories coming from a lady with the mouth of a trucker.
i had read some of her blog and it was funny, so i got the bookit's fun, and quite funny, but when someone moves from blog form to a published book, i expect the text to be more polished and streamlined.instead, this book reads like it comes directly from her blog with no editing, clearly there was an editor since she quotes the editor in the text, but it still doesn't read like there was one.anyway, it's worth a glance but i'd skip paying for it and just read her blog insteadAlso: comparing this text to David Sedaris in the book's main page is just silly.
When Jenny Lawson relates a childhood story she's funny and engaging...but so far, that's only occurred for about 10% of her writing in this book.
The other 90% I've read is just terrible.
The parenthetical ramblings and anxious Turrets-style outbursts quickly get old, and they distract from some of the really funny and entertaining bits.
This is one in a slew of recent books that many friends have rated highly, where I'm left clueless after reading.
Oh, Jenny.There is something so completely...extravagant  [ik-strav-uh-guhnt]Part of Speech: adjectiveDefinition: exceeding the bounds of reason, as actions, demands, opinions, or passions. Synonyms: absurd, bizarre, crazy, exaggerated, excessive, exorbitant, extreme, fanciful, fantastic, flamboyant, flashy, foolish, grandiose, immoderate, implausible, improvident, imprudent, inordinate, lavish, ludicrous, nonsensical, ornate, outrageous, preposterous, pretentious, prodigal, profligate, reckless
Go to the next chapter." She then shares what really cleaning a deer means for "curious, non-judgmental readers"--and it apparently involves the "poop rope," the first time I've been privileged to hear that "French" expression despite having a deer hunter father as well.
And her father's version of the "Grizzly Adams five-second rule."Likewise, "bonus" chapter titled "Balls" was a delight, and perfectly captures oddball humor and the even odder people around her.
That's just my metaphorical way of saying laughing at mental illness' oddities is a lot like laughing at someone struggling with cancer.
One of the perks at working at a large chain bookstore are the free Advanced Reader's Copies of future books.
It's like going used car shopping, but already knowing how awesome what you're gonna be bringing home is.
But more like how could I have fit a big metal chicken in my car.
Which would be hard cause I'm almost 30 and she would have to had me when she was like 4 or 5 or something and even though she lives in the south I'm sure that's frowned upon.
It's like laughing at all the things that go through my head, only it's someone else's.
And I distrust "funny" books the same way I distrust sitcoms with laugh-tracks, because it's condescending and discourages thinking for yourself.
I had to google her to find out what she even looked like, which was when I (finally) learned that Jenny isn't some random discovery I made—she is a massively famous blogger, and most of the rest of the world already knows how hilarious and great she is.
Maybe I should take my editorial snobbery and just shove it up my own ass, because this book is great and people will love it and who cares if I think it could have been better.
Besides being the daughter of an atheist father and a religious nut-job mother, Mom was also what the humane society likes to call a "collector." (This is a polite way of saying "animal hoarder.") At any given time, we had a dozen dogs and cats (and I mean a dozen of EACH, not total!) living in the house.
My husband and I once had a conversation much like the one below, only I was the one unwilling to donate my organs...just in case, you know...JENNY: Why would you need them?
4.5 I Laughed So Hard I Peed a Little StarsBuddy read with some of my friends at  Buddies Books and Baubles  because after I read Beyonce the Chicken there was no way I was not going to read her book.Humor is a really subjective thing. Either something falls into stuff you think is funny or it doesn’t. Regretfully my hubs LOVEs Jackass type humor and all Will Ferrell movies. But for me that stuff is hit and miss. Either I love it or I roll my eyes at the ridiculousness of the entire thing. Jenny
Well I do enjoy a good story with a serial killer in it and who doesn’t think an unexpected bobcat being thrown in someone’s lap is hilarious???⑤ - Do you like reading/listening to others peoples messed up lives that make you realize that “no, you are not that crazy or fucked up and by comparison you are the pinnacle of sanity”?
YES, I love stories that make me laugh and realize that no matter what crazy things I’ve said or done I have never had my arm stuck in a cow vagina and therefor really life isn’t that bad.
Like seriously...fucking.brilliant.And hilarious.
They totally complete the hilarious package of this book that includes insanely funny stories, a shitload of cursing and sarcasm, and TONS OF CAPITALIZED AND ITALICIZED TEXT!Seriously.
And then you will fucking thank me for telling you to read it...and you know what, you're welcome.****One of my favorite lines (which I especially love because I am from Texas and my father owns 3 gun cabinets) - "In rural Texas pretty much everyone has a gun cabinet.
This book is a laugh out loud, get yelled at by your husband because your silent laughter is shaking the bed too much, entertaining book. I've never read the author's blog but really enjoyed the book. The only detractor for me was the over use of the F-bomb. Granted, I was assured that this is just the way that the author talks so I wont complain too much but I could have done without the overuse. Read it!
This book is mostly a collection of the kinds of stories I love, but there are definitely moments, nay, entire chapters of more seriousness that reminded me that I was listening to a memoir and not an entirely humorous book.Lawson's book was actually our book club pick of the month and it received varied reactions.
(there is also an excerpt from the book on the NPR page)As I listened to the audiobook, which Lawson narrates, it was fun to hear her talk about the pictures in the book, but I did feel like I was missing out to an extent.
The woman in question is probably clip art; I'm pretty sure she's not Jenny.Alright, I finished listening to this last night on my long drive home.
I this point I gagged, and my gag reflux is such that I keep gagging until I vomit a little.I gagged reading this book because I think it was my body’s last desperate attempt to get air back into my lung because I don’t think I'd breathed in the last ten minutes.
Jenny, squirrels TOTALLY swim.
I can totally even find it for you in some very authoritative books.
I mean, really, who doesn’t want a bandito squirrel.
I said I wanted a black bandito squirrel.
I said he was racist for assuming it was racist, and that all black squirrels are alike.
Ms.Lawson's attempts at engaging the reader are a desperate "PLEASE RECOMMEND THIS TO EVERYONE YOU KNOW and/or I AM SO FUNNY BUT MY EDITOR IS LIMITING MY WIT" plea and I really wish her editor had been more strict with her because there's too much of this engagement charade (I say engagement because it did engage me into resenting the author, after all) apart from terrible writing that has gone into the book.Finally, nothing about Ms.Lawson's childhood, life or level of success is memoir worthy.
While I hold Tina Fey's writing in very high regard, possibly because I'm biased since I really like 30 Rock too, I also found Mindy Kaling's memoir fall into the 'trying too hard' category.
No way.This audiobook, read by the author, is seriously strange and hysterical.
At one point in the story, Jenny reflects on the birth of her daughter and the promise she made to the newborn.
She promises that her daughter will never "wander into the backyard to look at the caged bobcats only to find a pet duck whose beak had been eaten off by a wild racoon." These are the tame memories!Jenny Lawson has an irreverent dry sense of humor and an unapologetic perspective on her own shortcomings and lunacy.
Jenny Lawson is just a little bit crazy in an adorable way.
This is one funny audiobook!
This book was a fun time, but that's about it.
I only laughed out loud once, and it was a chapter about her taking laxatives, so I'm just a 8 year old child laughing about poop jokes.
This audiobook was fun for the most part, but there were some parts that really annoyed me.
First, there were a ton of sound effects and Jenny sang every chapter title, which was so irritating.
Second, Jenny's voice is very valley girl sounding at times.
It was almost a hyperbolic Kelly Kapoor voice and she said "totally" a lot and it came off as kind of lame.But overall this was interesting and I listened to it in a day
12/14/15: BR over at  BB&B . And it couldn't be better times b/c I NEEDS a good laugh after the week I just had. SAVE ME, Blogess-lady!
This might be my favorite audiobook. Ever. You should just accept who you are, flaws and all, because if you try to be someone you aren't, then eventually some turkey is going to shit all over your well-crafted facade, so you might as well save yourself the effort and enjoy your zombie books. This is FUCKING hilarious.Jenny Lawson just gets me. And you know, I don't even remember what prompted me to read this? I remember I specifically wanted an audiobook because this has been my first year to r
(and if you don't internet stalk me, you're missing out on quality cat pictures.) So audiobooks have been my saving grace.So however this one got on my radar, I'm so so happy it did.I could not be more different from Jenny Lawson - taxidermied animals scare me, for one thing.
Your dad shooting things off the front porch on Christmas morning, beer in hand and Hooters t-shirt on full display to any incoming relatives was less normal, but not unexpected.
So we had a mobile swimming pool, which was cooler than the stationary kind.You might think I'm doing some kind of Jenny Lawson style bullshitting about this.
