https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76967.The_Secret_Agent_on_Flight_101
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
The hardy boys are solving a major mystery surrounding the disappearance of their father. Most of the book focuses on escape artist feats, but magic tricks are mentioned. Appropriate for kids ages 8-12 years.
Loved it! An international plot and magic tricks too!
Another great entry in this series.
Th best hardy book I've read so far...but I've only read 2 others.
As soon as I read the book it was very hard to put down.
The author starts the action right away which instantly hooks you onto the book.
The plot of the book is fascinating and incredibly interesting and stays that way.
The idea of kids solving the problem is a great idea which makes the book interesting to read.
The plot twists always leaves you shocked and hoping the book keeps on going.
I rated the book five stars since it clearly deserves it.
This book is a masterpiece and I could not find anything wrong with it.
The book entitled “The Secret Agent on Flight 101” by Franklin W.
Dixon was a amazing book.
This book had very, very, very high level words and it had a lot of description of what was going on.
The strengths of this book is that it had many dramatic events in the whole story, which definitely drew me in.
The weakness of this book is that there is so many characters I don't know which one it's really about.
I would definitely recommend this book to a classmate because it's about mystery and detectives and that is something that 6th graders like.
this book is full of suspence an fun that you'll enjoy reading. I would recommend it to anybody who enjoys reading mysteries.
Somehow I reached age 52 without ever reading a Hardy Boys mystery/adventure novel. Great fun.
I have to deduct a star from this one purely for the usage of "SKOOL" and "UGLI" as acronyms for the good and evil spy groups. Oh boy... it was still good, I mean, but wow.
Dixon (in this case, the real author is Tom Mulvy), was the first Hardy Boys book I ever read.
From that point on throughout my junior high school years, I read the vast majority of the series.
I opted for "The Secret Agent" because I knew it would be a relatively pleasant and quick and easy read and maybe even a little fun.
Like how can the Hardys afford to keep refueling their plane?
I mean, the Hardy Boys and Chet almost get killed several times in the book (and other books in the series for that matter).
A fantastic book. You got to love the Hardy Boy series.
One of the best books in the Hardy Boys series, The Secret Agent on Flight 101 was a perfect blend of thrills, cliffhangers, and general plot twists.
The Hardy Boys kept the book going with their constant endeavors with the enemy, and the plot did not drag even once.
The book was very fast-paced and action-packed, sometimes too much so.
I would give this book a 4.5 instead of 4, but decimals aren't allowed here, so I guess that's it.
The point is, however, is that this book was...
magical (you'll have to read the book to get that joke).
This wasn't a terrible read, but the premise was ridiculous. Some secret society pays for the Hardys (and Chet!) to travel to Scotland not once, but twice! Apparently to help uncover a spy ring which isn;t a spy ring, just a gang of jewel thieves. The writer of this isntallment clearly had no idea what they were talking about when they came up with this nonsense, though kids probably wouldn't have noticed how tenuous the notion is of paying the flights of teenagers to investigate when their dad was already doing the same thing.
From the Hardy Boys series, this is one of my favorites. How can you not enjoy a book which pits organizations such as UGLI (Undercover Global League of Informants) against SKOOL (Secret Knowledge Of Organized Lawbreakers)?
My introduction to the Hardy Boys. Once I finished this book I got from my dad for my birthday one year, I marched to the Milford, Nebraska public library and checked out Hardy Boys #1, The Tower Treasure, and worked my way through 30 or so of them.
As the second Hardy Boys book that I have recently received, I thought the book was a very fun read that kept me glued to the pages until I finished.
NELL'ANTRO DELLE SPIE
Dixon, Franklin W.
it was good like ok good, not like the rest of Hardy Boys books I've read though but it's ok
Not one of the better ones. It felt choppy.
Just trying to keep up with my son's reading. It's okay, but after a while all the Hardy Boy books are alike.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1995.
There's quite a bit of mystery and intrigue in this book, which is exactly what you want from a Hardy Boys mystery story.
JMAR5-Dix
A magician, secret agents, a spy ring, a castle, all parts of this Hardy Boys mysteries.
SM
Read in 2005.
