https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/687282.Desire_Under_the_Elms
I love plays which transform the limitations of the stage into possibilities - and this is a great example of the art.Ephraim Cabot is the quintessential patriarch: playing absolute dictator to his sons on his lonely farm, and lording it over man and beast alike.
Abbie bears a son, ostensibly Ephraim's but Eben's in reality.
All action is glanced through windows: the kitchen, Cabot's bedroom, the sons' bedroom and (towards the end) the parlour which is kept closed since the death of Eben's mother.
The only words I can use to describe Eugene O'Neill's Desire Under the Elms are: shocking and disturbing.
The play is very well written and the characters are so well developed that, as a reader, I felt like I really knew them.
These characters are so fascinating alone, but then O'Neill throws in some jealousy, desire, adultery, trickery, murder, and a few Freudian issues and before you know it, you're so into the play you don't want to put it down ever.
I truly see Desire Under the Elms fast becoming one of my favorite literary works.
Themes: Greek tragedy - power & pride, love & loss, incest & infanticide. Style: naturalism. Setting: rural America.
In 30-40 years I need to find a production of "Desire Under the Elms" and play Ephraim.
This is one of my two dream roles at the moment, though I will have to wait a while to get to try this one on.
(The other dream role is Renfield in any adaptation of "Dracula", my more immediate acting aspiration.)"Desire Under the Elms" is a masterpiece.
The blending of Greek tragedy with Modern Realism works beautifully and helps make the characters sometimes outlandish motivations seem very real and immediate.
علي الراعي، والتي بالتأكيد مع جمالها لا يُنصح بقراءتها قبل قراءة المسرحية!، ثم أنه في هذه المقدمة طرح ذات اللماذا!، وأجاب عنها إجابه جميلة إلى حد ما، ولكن الأمر كله لا يزال ناقصًا!، فما زلت لا أصدّق هذه النهاية أبدًا!، أو أحسب إنها لم تُنسج أسبابها بشكل مقنع خلال الفصول السابقة عليها!، أو مثلما استشهد كاتب المقدّمة بقول الناقد الأمريكي "جون جاسنر" عن أن يوجين أونيل هنا:يدفع شخصياته دفعًا مبالغًا فيه نحو مصائرها المحتومة ويسمح لعواطفها أن تنفجر بلا كياسة أو رشاقة، فيجلب بهذا على نفسه تهمة الميلودراماوإن لم أحس بهذه الميلودراما إلا في الأسطر الأخيرة الدامية!، فهي ومع ذلك مسرحية فاتنة!، مع ترجمة بديعة

By watering down the tragedy of the life and relationships of the characters with comical aspects, Eugene O'Neill balanced the line between darkness and humor quite admirably in this play.
It's obvious that the father in the play represents O'Neill's own father, and the father-son relationship represents his own struggle to mend the broken relationship between his father and him, but I really like the plays that contain autobiographical glimpses into O'Neill's own life (A Long Day's Journey's into Night is still one of my favorite plays); the other climactic elements that make the play read like a soap opera also parallel the plot of Desire Under the Elms to the tragedy of the Greeks (specifically Euripides' Medea), which was O'Neill's intention.
اما بعد از مدتی سر و کله ی افراییم با همسر تازه اش که دختر زیبایی به نام "اَبی"ست، پیدا می شود.
اَبی که سخت عاشق اِبِن شده، وحشت دارد چیزی این رابطه را خدشه دار کند، پس بچه را در شکم خود می کشد.
اِبِن او را تحویل کلانتر می دهد، اما پیش از آن، به عشق عمیقش به اَبی اعتراف می کند و می گوید که او را بخاطر فرزندکشی نمی بخشد.این نمایش نامه به نام هوس زیر درختان نارون به فارسی ترجمه شده است، توسط کدام مترجم؟ چه انتشاراتی؟ به خاطر ندارم.
Everyone is tragically crazy here. That's the biggest impression I got from this play. At first it was a bit difficult to read because of spelling and grammar and nonsense, but after couple of pages it got easirer(the trick is, you don't need to understand every word). Everything is a big mixup, everyone fucks up(pardon my French) and there is Oedipus complex involved, and old dudes who think they can make children at 75... well, crazy.
Another play where O'Neill is working out his angst over his domineering father. The odd dialect is weird since it is rural New England, not known for *that* much of a need of a dialect. I thought it distracted from the main issues and did not illuminate much except that these were farm folk. The elms were meant to be symbolic, but they were left with not much to do.
It certainly is known as a classic of tragedy.
And then love enters into it making a total mess of some people's brains.
What can lurk in the minds of humans when they have never been shown love and kindness?
At marriage, back when this play was written, even a woman's property became her husbands once they married.
This is another root to this tree of tragedy.
This is a tragedy that has few characters but has so many threads of pain running through it you could write a thesis on it.
He has brutalized his three sons, working them like animals on the farm until they hate him bitterly.
At 76, he marries 35-year-old Abbie Putnam, a deed intended to cheat his sons of their inheritance.
Eben hates Ephraim for the way that the self-righteous old hypocrite treated his mother.
After buying out the claims of his brothers to the farm, he bitterly resents the arrival of a young stepmother who seduces him and he fathers her child.
Abbie seduces Eben in order to get a child who will be Ephraim's heir and who will deprive Eben of his inheritance, but then she falls in love with Eben.
The ending, in particular, could have been executed far better, the atmosphere being just a tad bit too vaguely saccharine - though indeed tragic - thereby taking away, somewhat, from the gloomy passion-imbued darkness that overarches the whole of the drama, much like the two brooding elm trees that loom over the Cabot house.
I should believe this work to be far superior when actually acted out, of course, and I may even raise its rating up a notch if I get the chance to see one of its better reproductions (thereby perchance assuring myself of its tragic virtù).
A great challenge for a set designer, but the intriguing aspects of this play stop there, I'm afraid. The characters felt very one-dimensional to me, I just couldn't get invested in their stories, and so remained very indifferent to the unfolding tragedy. Not to mention I didn't find any of their behaviours very credible. Maybe it would be different in the hands of very talented performers, but somehow I doubt it. I remember feeling much the same indifference after watching the film adaptation with Anthony Perkins and Sofia Loren. The writing just isn't there.
I now recall what it is about O'Neill that I dislike. All the characters are unpleasant, angry cranks, ignorant peasants, racists, caricatures, monomaniacs. It'd be nice to have a play where at least one character is someone you'd actually want to spend time with, but every O'Neill play I've spent any time reading/watching/listening just makes me feel like I've wasted time with odious company.
Seriously depressing, but with exquisite character development. They did a wonderful job on the audio production!
Interesting rendition of a modern Greek tragedy. If you dig Freudian concepts and revenge, this might be the performance for you.
So. Much. Drama. Yikes!!!!
Un relato de un autor poco conocido en español, un drama que recuerda a Steinbeck
Well shit.
For this piece, and I think only for this piece, O'Neill attempted to recreate New England Yankee vernacular from the 1830s or so.
The setting is in rural New England, and the play opens with the three Cabot brothers living together and working the family farm.
Their younger half brother, Eben, is emotional and unpredictable.
Eben takes some money that his mother hid away, and buys Simeon and Peter's shares of the farm, so that he becomes his father's sole heir.
The 76 year-old father, a tough and egoistic old bastard, then shows up with a new, and much younger, bride, named Abbie.
ثلاثون عامًا أصابها العفن لتبعث خصوبتك، وتبث الغنى في تربتك، وتكون سمادك الأول، وهذا، والله، ما كنته بالنسبة لك...،ليبقى إيبين والعجوز والزوجة الجديدة ابيى ..لتدور الاحداث فيما بينهم وانفجار الرغبات والخطايا والحب المحرم لينتهي إلي ما انتهى عليه...فالخير والشر يتصارعا في الشخصيات فأونيل يرى - وأنا اقتبس من المقدمة - " أن الانسان هو ميفستوفوليس وفاوست معًا، وهو بين الوجهين حائرًا".فدوافع كلًا من آبي وايبين في البداية كانت شريرة أو بدافع الانتقام " انتقام آيبين من العجوز" و "الرغبة في الاستيلاء على المزرعة من ناحية آبي " وقد وجدت سبيلها إلي ذلك هو الحصول على ابن، ورغم صلابة العجوز فهو لا يصلح لذلك تغرى آيبين..لكن في البداية كل منهما كان يحمل بذور الحب اتجاه الآخر..
It's a dark story about a young man, Eben, at odds with his controlling father, Ephraim.
When Ephraim brings home a beautiful young wife who claims to be the new heir of their farm, Eben seethes with jealousy.
Things turn sour when Abbey commits infanticide in order to win back Eben's heart.
This would be an interesting text to teach because not many plays are taught in the high school setting.
There are interesting classical allusions we could discuss, and it would be an excellent text in which to analyze character.
Eben is such a fanatic mother son.
He wants get everything his father has because of the feeling that it all was her mother's own.
He then falls in love with Abbie, his new step mother.
He does not want the wealth gets down to the new born baby he admits by his father telling him that he is his and Abbie's own.
Actually the baby is Eben's.
Abbie who loves Eben to death does not want lose the wealth and the love of Eben.
She kills the baby to get back the love of Eben.
As this is only my second O'Neill play, I've started to notice and appreciate his usage of repetition in his plays.
Almost like a flowing rhythm with certain words echoing across them.
In Iceman Cometh it was "pipe dream"; in Desire it's "ripe for the bough" and "purty".
To be completely frank, I thought she was manipulating Eben and his father throughout the majority of the play to her own ends, and then the ending came and really made me wonder what exactly her motivations are.
Maybe it's something I'd understand better on a second read.
And I definitely would read it again.
This is a very well-written play, much like The Iceman Cometh.

*2.34I was sorely disappointed by this third O'Neill work I've read.
It's not so much the subject matter that bothers me - not that it's alright, but if he was going to include such ideas in his work...
I.e., if he's going to write about incest, put a larger theme behind it -- it shouldn't disintegrate into some twisted love story.
Perhaps here is some greater meaning I'm unaware of; the accent was good and not overly distracting [I find O'Neill is quite good at that -- though here it was maybe slightly overdone] and there were interesting moments, and his plays aren't ever horrible?

As soon as I started reading this, my first thought was Oh, dear lord, the accents.
O'Neill takes full advantage of colloquial dialogue in this play, but though it might be annoying at first, you fall into the pattern of it pretty easily.As I said, I was pretty lukewarm about this play as I went into it.
I didn't really see where it was all going, but it pays off in the end.
The climax was done very nicely, and though it was very soap-opera-esque, it was enjoyable.Overall, if you can get past O'Neill's Southern twang, this should be an enjoyable read once you reach the end.
Οικογενειακή τραγωδία κατά τα πρότυπα της αρχαίας ελληνικής μυθολογίας. Η Άμπυ έγινε Φαίδρα (και μετά Μήδεια), ο Εφραίμ Θησέας και ο Ίμπεν Ιππόλυτος.Αρχέτυποι χαρακτήρες με σκοτεινά συναισθήματα, ακραία και μοιραία πάθη.Πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα εργασία για το συμβολισμό του έργου:The Analysis of Archetypal Characters in Eugene O'Neill's Desire under the Elms:Mythological Approach
