https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8369360-with-the-help-of-god-and-a-few-marines
Brigadier General Albertus Wright Catlin U.S.M.C. tells how the Marines were trained and their forces increased as they prepared to go in and assist France after having declared war on Germany (following the sinking of the Lusitania).An overseas training camp was established at Quantico, Va., and I went down to take charge.
And if the United States Marines had not beaten back the Hun at Belleau Wood, Paris might easily have fallen.It is heartbreaking to read what the general says about the German menace being at an end—Hitler and his criminal gangs were back for revenge within twenty years!
Technology has evolved – people have not evolved – many accounts of war prove this time and time again.This book written by Brigadier General Albertus Catlin, USMC (Retired-Deceased) was begun during his recuperation period after sustaining an injury that would have taken the lives of many others; and, was completed in 1919; though it looks to be a mere single edition book the writing within the pages suggests at least another attempt to update the book could have occurred by 1923.
Colonel Catlin was the commander of the Sixth Marines in 1918. He was there at Chateau Thierry and was taken out by a sniper at the beginning of the Belleau Wood fight. The language of the book is more 19th Century than 20th. He has an officer's perspective and it shows throughout the volume. He uses secondary sources effectively (mostly letters home from enlisted men).
Stand proud to be an American!An excellent account of the horror of battle and the nameless heroes who sacrifice everything for the love of country and freedom. A must read for those who have "never been proud of their country"!
lesson for the futurethe heart of the American Marine the heart of all American fighting men. Disciplined free will. Spirit some would say. Are we so individual today so selfish.Many years many wars later. Can we say we are still strong.
If you've ever wanted to understand the mindset of a Marine, this is the book to read.
Real presentationReveals what a marine is. Very well written. I enjoyed the use of many references.Being a retired Navy type, I could picture many of the things he described,
The Great War to end all WarsFor those of us living today it is good reminder of this terrible conflict and how it still has repercussion today.
He who sheds his blood with me shall always be my brother. Little did the Marines knew what awaited them in the early 1940's. The Marine Corps is a brotherhood. I enjoyed the book but I was a little skeptical about how happy these men were to go into battle. I've seen Marines go into battle and none of them looked happy.
A good first hand account of Marines in WW IVery enjoyable read by someone who was there in Europe and had first hand knowledge of the War and how it was fought.
The MarineI was a little confused when I started the book as to which time frame he spoke, past that I really enjoyed the stories it told
This interested book written by the on those times Colonel and later on Brigadier General Albertus C
This book started off kinda slow but really picked up half-way through. It is an excellent account of the Marines battle of Belau Wood and a great view of the Marine Corps in general from the point of view of a Marine Officer in World War I. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is in the Marine Corps now or ever has been. I am not sure if this is on the Commandant's Reading List but if it is not, it should be.
This book was outstanding to read. It taught me a lot that i didn't know. The rating i gave was because it was easy to understand. I liked the whole book. All my friends and reading club.All my marine friends will be happy to read this book. I will present them with it tomorrow at the donut shop.
A very good book everyone should read it.The story about the Marines in Bella woods was very interesting and I couldn't put it down an till I finished it. It made me remember when I was a Marine we did what we were told.
Interesting BookBut full of super patriotic hyperbole at the end. The interesting thing is the book was written by the Marine commander, so it is a different perspective.
Semper Fi and the United States Marines explained by an expert. exle
