https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1332271.Matagorda
Former Army Major, Tappan Duvarney, veteran of the Civil War,(the War between the States) and the Indian fighting , is tired.All he wants of life ,is a little money.So he can marry his fiancee, Jessica Trescott.Finally receiving just $ 7,000 of his wealthy, ship owning father's estate ,in Virginia.His family mansion was burnt and their ships, destroyed.They were Union supporters ,from the South!Unwisely investing with an old friend, Tom Kittery,( the cattle business) in Texas.Tappan, doesn't know that Tom, is waging a bloody feud, with the Munsons.
Can the people seeking shelter, from the storm, including Jessica and Mady, gathered inside the courthouse,survive?
If you're a fan of classic westerns, this is a good one.
He joins a war buddy in Texas in the cattle business, but when he arrives, he's immediately embroiled in a feud between Tom Kittery and the Munson clan.
He takes charge, fights off the Munsons, rounds up the cattle and prepares to drive them to Kansas and the train, only to be stopped by a hurricane.
This book is full of the western tropes: gunfights, cattle drives, feuds, good women who save the men they love and bad ones who betray them.
A nice solid L'Amour western...nothing better on a cold winter's day with your feet up by the fireplace and an old dog laying on the rug by your feet.
That sounds nice to me but I actually read most of this one while on my lunch break, sitting in my car, shivering a bit in the cold weather while my nearly frozen fingers attempted to turn the pages.
Yes, I love to read that much.I'll rank this one among the top 20 of all of the Louis L'Amour westerns I've read...somewhere around 85-90 so far.
What's not to love?
When so many people like an author it seems worthwhile to read something by him/her just to figure out what its all about. Well, that's what I'm doing. Not very impressive, not terribley bad either. Kind of amusing stereotypes. Now I know what men's daydreams are made of. (Or some of them).
Although this started out an all-too-typical western trail drive book, it turned into a unique story after a while with a hurricane and the introduction of a very interesting and admirable love interest and a unique and interesting bad guy.
E vedendo film western al cinema dopo il catechismo, in un cinema di paese dove tipicamente i film arrivavano in ritardo di un anno e mezzo o due, ma la domenica pomeriggio proiettava film per "ragazzini" a volte vecchi di molti anni.Questo però è il mio primo romanzo western propriamente detto.Letto quasi tutto d'un fiato, nell'arco di 24 ore.Niente da dire: L'Amour scrive molto bene, ha le idee chiare, e in questa faida di fantasia inserisce la storica distruzione della città di Indianola nel 1875.
Il finale è decisamente un anticlimax ben riuscito.Credo che se mai mi capiterà, leggerò altro di L'Amour.
Louis L'Amour was not one of the most technical or long-winded writers, he was short, succinct, and to the point and had a way that grabs you into the story immediately. The descriptions of the scenery, events, people, and situations made you feel as if you were right there living it side-by-side with his characters.With Matagorda you have the classic Louis L'Amour situations with the good guy fighting the bad guy, a life-threatening conflict, and the good guy wins.
I like the author's characters. Readers follow the life of Tap Duvarney, a man who is a bit lost in life after dealing with war and hardships. If you haven't read a book by this author you are missing out. I love the westerns and how the author makes the characters not only believable, but people you would like to sit around a campfire and have a cup of coffee with,
I’m a fan of Westerns. This book had some weaknesses and some strengths. What I loved the most was the strong woman that was trusted, loved and boldly courageous. I liked the angle of a natural disaster that many people in the US consider and new phenomenon. Fun story about dirty reputations, family fueds, money, prestige and how true love can be hard work.
"Why not some Louis L'Amour?" was my husband's reply to the question about a book for our road trip. Thus, Matagorda (what our library had). It was OK. For escapist fiction, it's better than others.
A cattle drive mixed with a land war and a hurricane in Texas. My favorite character shows up toward the end. Another great book by L'Amour.
Great lamour bookThe girl comes thru at the end as always. This was as good as the sacket brand of books. Thanks
I finished this novel in a day! It's a quick read, and not very deep, but Tap is a bad man! I really liked him as a character.
Good readAnother great story. Good store line with a twist from most of Mr L'Amour's other books and of course lots of action. Worth the read.
This was a fast-faced adventure story that kept me up late because I wanted to finish it. It's the standard L'Amour formula frontier story.
It’s Louis L’Amour. Enough said. Plus I listened to the entire book while working around my house today. #ultimateproductivity
Louis never lets me down. Read this as audio book
About a Southern gentleman who fought with the North in The War Between the States, this story contrasts honor and duplicity, resourcefulness and incompetence, progress and stagnation.
Good Kool-Aid Escapism.
Having recently mustered out of the post-Civil War indian fighting military, Tappan Duvarney heads to Matagorda island in Texas where he has invested most of his savings in a cattle herd held by Tom Kittery.
Unbeknownst to him, he will find not only cattle a herd scattered far and wide, but also a bitter and furious feud between the Kitterys and the Munsons.
Louis L'Amour is enjoyable as always.
Matagorda is light reading, but better than most of the more modern novels that seem to be dominating the bookstores these days.
Louis L'Amour is still the king of western fiction, as far as I'm concerned.
Interesting tale of what the old west might have been. Tappan Duvarney invests his money on cattle located in Texas and heads that way to help move them to market. Turns out his partner, Tom Kittery, seems to be involved in an old feud and the cattle are not yet ready for the drive. Toss in a little bad weather along with Tappan's fiancé arriving this proves to be an enjoyable reading adventure.
Reading Louis L'Amour - finding what sets him apart in western writing from other - this book is an example of that for me. Sure it has all the 'normal' western stuff - horses, trouble, cowboys, love, cows and so on, yet there is more and I can't even put it into words. Outside of I love a lady in this story and the ending was amazing and unexpected. Keeps me going on the goal of reading all the L'Amour to see the difference.
I started this last night (3/20/2010) and slowly covered the 14 pages of chapter one. I read slowly anyway, but I take my time with Louis - trying to see the picture exactly as he paints it. Louis will always be my favorite author and so far, Matagorda is pure Louis L'Amour. Vivid characterizations and rich environments take me away from my day-to-day grind and deliver me to another time and place. What more can a reader request?
Good read. Just wish it was 50+ pages longer. I felt like the plot was in building mode for so long and then all of a sudden there was the climax and a very steep descent to the end.This left me with many questions. And if not another 50 or so pages, how about a sequel??But as always any Louis L'Amour story that combines good characters and the cattle business keeps me pretty entertained.
Nice change of pace. A western with a cattle drive and a hurricane. There was western action, a bit of misdirected romance plus all the usual cowboy stuff. How Tom could forgive his fiancé and help her start over in the."city" I do not understand but that's a minor point. A good read in the traditional sense, worth the time.
This historical fiction was AWESOME! I have never read a Louis L'Amour book I didn't like and this was no different. I would read it again any day. There just my favorite books in my favorite genre. If you have any interest at all in cowboys, the wild west, history, or even action and excitement, I recommend reading this. Only good things to say about this.
I picked this up at a book sale since I'd never read L'Amour and I wanted to give it a try. The plot and the characters are predictable and campy, but gosh darnit I enjoyed it! My favorite part was the strong woman that just does whatever she wants to get her man. I guess it's just a function of being a child of the West, but I'll definitely be picking up some of the Sackett series soon.
Another great Louis L'Amour book. Same formula, gives you what you want and expect from him. This one was especially great because of the Texas history included, mainly the destruction of Indianola (first hurricane anyway, not the second that finally did the town in) and the familiar locations. Highly recommended for all fans of L'Amour.
A former Union officer returns to Texas help a friend and to buy a cattle herd but lands in the middle of a blood feud. A complicale things a hurricane is headed towaard Matagoda Island on the Texas coast. L'Amour maintains his high standartds with this one.
As much as I hate to admit it, I sort of enjoyed this book. Westerns really aren't my favorite type of story/book/movie, but I read this book and came to wonder just what was going to happen next. Lots of cattle, and horses, and bad guys shooting and getting shot. The good guys won in the end.
