https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184512.The_Outline_of_Sanity
tell people in a bullying way that they must ‘Do It Now’ when they need not do it at all.” - taken from my favourite chapter ‘The Bluff of the Big Shops.’ Written in the usual Chestertonian style it does not have the wit of some of his other works and rightly so; this is a serious work about serious matters close to his heart, which point out in many ways that we don’t have to accept the status-quo and that we easily do.
This book is a summation of an ongoing series of debates that Chesterton engaged in with a range of Capitalists and Socialists on the question of a proposed third alternative that he and others advocated for, called "Distributivism." In short, Distributivism is deeply opposed to the tendency to consolidate power that is characteristic of both Capitalism and State Socialism, and instead argues for the radical distribution of the means for individuals to possess and maintain private property and creative enterprises in pursuit of life in a particular place.
A great primer on Distributism, to be prefaced by Rerum Novarum.
Chesterton's usual bombast is freighted a little bit in this one in that he has to keep edging back to particulars: he's discussing the economic conditions of the early 1900s, and he's Outlining what he thinks will be a Sane, that is to say sustainable, way of easing the tensions that looked like they were going to rip society apart.
Some of his more weighty suggestions, as he says of Christianity itself, "were not tried and found wanting, but found difficult, and left untried."Chesterton thought through quite a few of the issues that we've been banging our collective capitalist heads against in the financial labyrinth.
This was the third book of the the Mumford and Sons bookclub! Wow! Will have to check it out. I've read one other Chesterton book and didn't understand it at all so I'll have to try again.
In our day, we struggle with far too many government regulations over things like farming, small businesses, food, education, and pretty much every other area of society and economics.
In "The Outline of Sanity", Chesterton lays out his vision for Distributism, which is a turning away from big business and big government to small businesses, farms, property ownership, and self-government.
Chesterton saw the danger of capitalism and government control even a hundred years ago, and it has only grown worse in our day.
So support small shops, teach self-government, live off of your land, and never despise the day of small beginnings (Job 8:7, Zechariah 4:10).
Um bom livro sobre arranjos econômicos e a situação atual que vivemos. Seu pensamento é rico, com opções a nossa vivência em sociedade. É preciso ter paciência, pois sua leitura é um pouco truncada, por vezes datada. É necessário não observar não o escrito em si, mas acolher o espírito que o livro trás. Livro recomendado principalmente a quem estuda a Doutrina Social da Igreja.
This book asks a very simple question: are you willing to give up your freedom for security?
Chesterton shows how both Capitalism and Socialism take freedom from the individual for the promise of security (most often false security) - either physical or material.
This leads to a broader question: is it better to be uncomfortable and free, or comfortable and a slave.
Chesterton states that men easily accept despotism and slavery.
We see this acceptance all around us.
Let us heed the words of this book and once again assert that we are men, and that freedom is worth fighting for.
Chesterton makes a few very good points, but I had to wade through a lot of trivia to get there.
He defines "Capitalism" not as simply free markets, but the condition where capital is concentrated into only a few hands, and most people become wage earners instead of the more healthy state of self-sufficient farmers or business owners."Capitalism is contradictory a soon as it is complete; because it is dealing with the mass of men in two opposite ways at once...
For the capitalist is always trying to cut down what his servant demands, and in doing so is cutting down what his customer can spend...
He is wanting the same man to be rich and poor at the same time."
Chesterton presents his views of Capitalism and Socialism: both are wrong-headed and end up in the same place. The paradise of the capitalist turns out to be socialism. Instead, he recommeds Distributism: that is, the subsidiarity principle to the maximum, which leads to a return to the land as the only feasable solution.He lacks some of his wit as in other books; I found myself somewhat bored at times. Though there are some jewels of passages throughout.Is it feasable? We should rather ask: are there enough brave men to make it feasable?
This book is thought provoking. It outlines Chesterton's dream economy, distributism. It reprints several essays he wrote on the topic. Some ideas from is essays (in a nutshell): land/business ownership is good, smaller is better, local is better, profit is good but look at the whole picture and how private enterprise does not always work for the good of the common man.
Always amazing how prescient Chesterton remains. In a time when Distributiism is being legislated in our country, it would be wise for the citizenry to familiarize themselves with the cogent and brilliant argument Chesterton raises against it and other hinderances to our economic and social well-being.
Mainly polemics aimed at various critics of Distributism. I liked it better than Belloc's "Servile State" but less than "Restoration of Property." He's much more optimistic than Belloc. He wants people to approach the project with a sacramental, quasi-religious mindset.
Chesterton writes about his proposed plan of Distributism for the common man. I admire his dexterity with words, but I think his wordplay distracted from his line of thought. The vision of living on the land and being content there is a lovely one.
full of typical, witty chestertonisms, but not one of his better works. some essays are wonderful in theory, but he does not give much solid practical solutions for implementing his beloved economic system.
I love Chesterton, but economics was not his forte. Had I not been reading on my Kindle I would've thrown it against the wall!
I had a hard time finishing this. I really enjoyed some of the ideas of distributism, but most of the book seemed to ramble on and on.
I couldn't get on with this. This topic requires clarity and analysis, not endless analogies and not-quite illustrations, quips and comparisons. I am otherwise a GKC fan.
Chesterton on Distributism.
