https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29906980-lincoln-in-the-bardo
I should have known.
I want a plot, I want a story.
The book alternates between reading like a thesis, full of quotes from “other” sources and then almost more like a play.
They each have their own little mini-story but there is little continuity.
Some ghosts appear more often; Blevins and Vollman act as narrators, moving the meager story forward.
The Rev. Thomas provides a glimpse of a sort of Revelations style individual reckoning.
But they are small glimpses of jewels.
But in the long run, reading is all about pleasure.
And this book brought me very little of that.
It's a beautiful and sad but a strangely told story, and the narrative is different from anything I've read .
The first thing I did before I decided to read this book was look up the definition of bardo.
I thought it was a fascinating way to tell the story not just of the death of Willie but it is in many ways a commentary on the man who was president during a trying time in our history, a commentary on the time, but also on life and death.
”The rich notes of the Marine Band in the apartments below came to the sick-room in soft, subdued murmurs, like the wild, faint sobbing of far off spirits.” Keckley, op. cit. William Wallace Lincoln is sick. He is burning up with fever. His head is pounding to the beat of a song with a faster tempo than what he hears seeping through the floorboards from below. He...can’t...breathe. It feels like a fat man is squatting on his chest. His father comes to see him. His eyes are hollowed out cinders.
”The rich notes of the Marine Band in the apartments below came to the sick-room in soft, subdued murmurs, like the wild, faint sobbing of far off spirits.” Keckley, op.
Cit. Lincoln had already lost one child, Eddie, back in 1850.
He is trapped in the bardo, held by the love of his father, as he watches his father weep, holding the body so tenderly taken from his sick box.The Tibetan word bardo means literally "intermediate state"—also translated as "transitional state" or "in-between state."Willie would go, but his father said he’d be back.
Yes, I know I stand alone in my dislike for this book.
I should know better than to read a book in which the review says something like "an alternative writing" "a different way of telling a story".
I read reviews in which people said they were moved to tears over Lincoln's sorrow.
I hated all the voices and I hated the short quotes from people who were supposed to be there.
David Sedaris, Megan Mullally, Lena Dunham, Ben Stiller, Susan Sarandon and the list goes on.I realize I stand alone and the rest of you will love this book.
I remember thinking another 'lesser name' --- at the time --RISING today--was the OUTSTANDING collection of short stories -that people ought to be talking about ....
So....In order to break through my George Saunders resignation--I had to do a ton of homework before investing my actual time and money - on the physical book and audiobook.
A few times I thought of "The Book Thief", by Mark Zusak, with the unusual narrator, Death....because at the time -- I felt it was very effective - profoundly imagined.....Now, comes "Lincoln in the Bardo"...
NOTE: Having the PHYSICAL BOOK to read the words is powerful - 'and' the AUDIOBOOK is magnificent.
Your former life has changed, and a period of time must pass before one may move on to the next phase, rebuild.William Wallace Lincoln, the third son of President Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd Lincoln, had been sick off and on since the beginning of the year, as had his brother Tad. On February 20, 1862 at 5:00pm, Willie died – most likely of typhoid fever.
This fact is the basis for this novel.The majority of conversations throughout Lincoln in the Bardo are between the deceased who remain in the bardo.
What a painfully boring book. 166 narrators chiming in and overlapping in a story that seems so random and disconnected for the most part. It might be deep, and it might be clever, but if there isn't the barest spark of something to make you care what's on the next page - then why even bother turning it? I gave up at 35%. Life is way too short.
I had a complicated relationship with this book. The writing was exquisite and I was amazed at the brilliance of the author, but there were also long sections where I felt completely lost. The tide runs out but never runs in. The stones roll downhill but do not roll back up. What I'm about to write doesn't even begin to sum this book up! President Abraham Lincoln's beloved eleven-year-old son Willie passes away after an illness. However, Willie doesn't realize he's dead. His soul is stuck in a t
Some of the historical chapters were especially memorable:1) Conflicting descriptions of the moon on the night of Willie's death - There's something beautiful about the unreliability of our memories.2) Descriptions of Lincoln's appearance - He's described as an ugly man by many, but those who are more closely acquainted see him a little differently.3) Criticism of the Lincoln during the Civil War - I couldn't help but think of the modern day while reading the intense and sometimes vulgar criticism of Abraham Lincoln.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
Will admit having some trouble in the beginning, couldn't see where the author was going with this, wondering if it was gong to progress, it did in a very interesting way.
Not going to rehash the plot, the description only loosely defines this.
The book is helped along by some very unusual narrators, Vollmam and Bevins, along with a Reverend that can't figure out why he wasn't let in the pearly gates.
There is a cast of many others, all with their own stories to add to the mix.This novel takes a little patience, a willingness to embrace the unusual and an imagination that lets one see outside the norm.
Having read some convincing reviews, I thought it must be included in my TBR this year.
It's a story of ghosts, and of Willie, who are stationed between life and the afterlife - the conversations that take place; the longing of missed ones; missed lives.I can't give it the kudos others have - for me it was overwrought with too much sadness, despair and ghostly spirits.
Once submerged in the unique format, I was incredibly moved by the way Saunders is able to link the singular sadness and pain of one man losing his son (one great, historically critical man) to the comings and goings and suffering and salvation of all.
The novel focuses on that one night, as Willie's spirit is in the bardo (the space between life and death, lingering between states of reality).
And so too has Saunders' novel utterly crashed upon me, a brilliant, breathtaking meditation on the human experience: grief, life, death, and all in between.
"My son, here may indeed be torment, but not death." —Dante (Purgatorio)There really, really must be something wrong with me.Many of my esteemed Goodreads friends, whose rave reviews I put a lot of faith in, are smitten with George Saunders' book. It's even won the blimmin' Booker Prize for crying out loud! Um, where to begin? *he says, wringing his hands in the manner of a doctor delivering bad news*I tried my hardest to like it, I really did - in the same way I once tried to like green smooth
A patchwork quilt of musings, transcripts, obituaries and purgatorial grumblings does not (in my humble opinion) form a novel.Sandwiched somewhere between Saunders' rectangles of anecdotal nonsense is a soulful, heart-rending human interest tale that deserves to be told.
It's so f--king annoying!I apologise to everyone who has swooned over this body of work.
In fairness, I do see this working better as an audiobook, or as a stage play.But as a novel?
I'm all for setting a mood or seeing a theme evinced in different ways, although here, I just did not care about any of it.I did have empathy with Lincoln and his boy, but this story robbed me even of that.
Thankfully, these barrels full of quotations took up more space such that I did not have to spend too much reading time in the bardo.Oops.
But this story went too far for me without a meaningful payoff.
. I'd have to have eaten some sort of magic mushroom to have liked this...just not my taste.
Some of you may not be able to do this, some of you may not wish to accept what is presented, but those who continue will be rewarded with a better understanding of what it means to be a living, loving human being in this imperfect world.As I was reading I was thinking that there was no way I could follow this story on an audio book, but others reviews have convinced me that listening to this one adds another dimension to this novel.
Deservedly so.ADDITION: March 12th, 2017I downloaded this book on audio from my library 4 weeks after reading the print version.
**Man Booker Prize Winner!** The way a moistness in the eye will blur a field of stars; the sore place on the shoulder a resting toboggan makes; writing one's beloved's name upon a frosted window with a gloved finger.Tying a shoe; tying a knot on a package; a mouth on yours; a hand on yours; the ending of the day; the beginning of the day; the feeling that there will always be a day ahead.Goodbye, I must now say goodbye to all of it. George Saunders has written a magnificent, unique, experimenta
The concept is this: Willie Lincoln, at 11 years old, dies, breaking his presidential father's heart.
He finds himself (amongst a host of other spirits) in the "Bardo" (essentially purgatory), where he is visited by his father, and where he decides he will stay in order to see him again.
I loved it.Note: I started this book on audio, but found that due to the sheer number of characters and the unusual format, I was getting lost on key plot points.
Since George Saunders wrote the novel in 108 sections, with distinct voices, they decided to use 166 voices in the recording (Time Magazine did a short profile of the upcoming production, and you can listen to an excerpt on the publisher site.)Nick Offerman and David Sedaris, along with George Saunders, are three primary voices (although I thought Sedaris was Holly Hunter until after I'd finished, despite having heard him narrate his own books) and a cast of friends, stars, and family fill out the rest.
Some voices are heard only one time, reading a letter or fact from what sounds like real sources, and I imagine some are, some aren't.
Unknowingly, President Lincoln’s deep pain of mourning and promises made at his son’s interment site are anchoring young Willie and preventing him from leaving the state of Bardo and moving on.In Tibetan Buddhism, Bardo is comprised of several different levels of consciousness that a soul after death ideally moves through to reach the afterlife or next life entry level.
"He came out of nothingness, took form, was loved, was always bound to return to nothingness."- George Saunders, Lincoln in the BardoAgain, I find myself wandering at night alone, reading grief literature.
I'm not sure if I have just accidentally stumbled on my own special vein of grief literature or if this dark path has suddenly become more popular ("to hell with erotic fiction, let us read tales of the sad survivors").
The book is also historical in the sense that Saunders uses, in an unusual way, historical writings about Lincoln as almost a Greek chorus.
Lovely.The danger with grief literature is it can so, so easily slip into sentimentality.
Anyway, last night I went to bed thinking about what I might say about this celebrated new Saunders book I just read.
The input variables in this case, all ranging from 0 (lowest) to 1 (highest) were:Quality of writing = 0.88Creativity in structuring = 0.93Depth of probes into character = 0.48Exploration of themes = 0.85Achievement versus expectations = 0.27Applying equal additive weights to each variable we get:Rating = 0.88 + 0.93 + 0.48 + 0.85 + 0.27 = 3.41I’d read several rave reviews which enticed me.
I’m not even sure I can include myself, having mentally checked out while summing the miseries of those potentially reading this review of a sort.
In this award winning piece of historical fiction, a blend of fact and fiction, Saunders writes of 1862, the American Civil War has been raging for less than year, now intensifying to unbearable proportions with the rising tide of the dead.
After having already lost a son earlier, his gravely ill 11 year old son, Willie, dies and is laid to rest in Georgetown cemetery with a devastated Lincoln visiting.
Willie is in his bardo, where nothing will ever be the same again, trapped there by the love of his father.The echo of Lincoln's deluge of suffering is writ large amongst the bereavement and grief of a nation at war.
Writers, painters and musicians have to concoct something extraordinarily different to be new.And George Saunders has done exactly that.
There has never been a book quite like this before and that’s why it won the Man Booker Prize 2017.
My point is: do you consider a urinal a piece of art?
Whilst Lincoln in the Bardo is not quite a urinal, it firmly establishes that newness does not always mean greatness.
I suppose this is the difference between high-brow and low-brow books.
For me, I felt like I read the entire book after one hundred pages.
‘’My mother, I said. My father. They will come shortly. To collect me’’ Death is a cruel, cynical visitor. Sometimes invited, others unexpected, many more anticipated. Death is blind to age, race, religion, kindness or evilness. He does not discriminate, he takes everyone. He is the one certain thing in the life of every living creature. An unavoidable, unquestionable snatcher. However, don’t we all desire to know what happens next? Perhaps, this is what makes us so afraid, the fear of being lo
Saunders creates this monumental, extraordinary work around this incident and through Lincoln’s devastation, Willie’s uncertainty and confusion and the despair of all the trapped souls that become our guides in this horrifying journey, he weaves a tale of death, love and remembrance.
We see the souls of criminals, prostitutes, noble born people who have come to realize that Death isn’t particularly dazzled by wealth and status.
The grief of good President Abraham is devastating to read, the pain of Mrs Lincoln tears through the soul.
The thread of the novel is not difficult to follow like some avant-garde works, though one may wonder if Lincoln’s sorrow at the death of Willie is all Saunders meant to convey.
I think not.I think there is another step that Saunders wants us to take: that the spirits of the bardo (how it begins to sound like bordello, the more we know of it!) influenced Lincoln when his son died, giving him insight, empathy, and the strength to carry on with his responsibilities, and to bear his personal sorrow, but also the sorrows of a nation at war.
Like a cosmic chorus in 'cordial unison' under brocades of blue, twinkling white willows and a rain of red glareGeorge Saunders' brilliant literary achievement is the ideal book for the Fourth of July in profoundly reminding us of our union as citizens of the United States of America, this great nation created by our forefathers' Declaration of Independence from the "absolute Despotism," "long train of abuses and usurpations" and "invasions on the rights of the people" by the then "King of Great Britain," our democracy founded upon principles of equality and each individual's endowment "by [our] Creator with certain unalienable rights, [such as] Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." And, it provides just as important a remembrance of how our country was nearly crushed, but ultimately was forged, by the crucible of a civil war that cost the lives of over 620,000 young men (in perspective, a number that today would proportionally be roughly six and a half million).
It’s about unendurable personal loss and grief suffered by President Abraham Lincoln when his son, Willie, died at age 11.
Much of Abe’s grief is a matter of personal record, discussed in many histories and memoirs of the day.
The novel is rendered in part in a cut-and-paste style reminiscent of William Burroughs, though tonally it has nothing to do with his work.
I do not mean to deprecate the technique, for in the pastiche sections the effect is brilliant, given that these have been assembled entirely from the works of others.
So there is their unendurable personal loss and grief, too.
I almost feel compelled to reduce my review to two words: “Read it.”Years ago, I learned, while visiting the Lincoln Museum in Springfield, Illinois, that Abraham Lincoln was so prostrated by grief after the death of his favorite son Willie that he visited the crypt for months afterwards, opening the coffin and stroking the face and hair of his deceased son.
We never hear Abraham Lincoln’s own voice.Even more remarkably, the book not only intertwines and living and the dead, it also intertweaves history.
Especially from two who so enjoyed the listening experience!matthew We got no problem with the book, we just got issue with you trying to play it off like you read the goddamned thing.mr.mcdowellI agree that misrepresentation of your consumption of the novel would lead others astray.
Though there has been some data to suggest that reading and listening to an audiobook provide the same experience and value.mr.
matthewIndeed Matthew, I think it best if we leave it to the listeners and readers to decide what to make of the book.
It resides with the weight of its heaviness to such a state that breathing full, cleansing breaths is almost impossible."The terror and consternation of the Presidential couple may be imagined by anyone who has ever loved a child, and suffered that dread intimation common to all parents, that Fate may not hold that life in as high a regard, and may dispose of it at will."February of 1862 brings with it an end to the life of young Willie, son of Abraham and Mary Lincoln.
George Saunders brings you into the crypt aside of Lincoln and with it is the reminder of your own crypts in life.
This was one of the most unusual books I have ever read!
The author must have become a real expert on Abraham Lincoln by the time he finished writing.Amazingly the whole fascinating book takes place over one night immediately after Lincoln's young son's funeral.
Lincoln makes a last visit to his son and here the book takes a turn into the supernatural and the reader meets a host of people who reside in the cemetary, not believing they are dead, and therefore not passing over as they should.At times the book is weird, at times very sad but always enthralling.
