https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/506265.The_Lawless
John Jakes never disappoints but of all his books that I have read, North and South, The Bastard, The Rebel and California Gold and Love and War- this was my least favorite but still deserves 4 stars. I might have expected too much as I assumed it would be about the Wild West when the book was not about that at all. I also expected more about Custer getting massacred and the Centennial of the US but that was just messed in passing.
I read this series the summer before my 8th grade year.
And I remember I really liked them.
On the pre-test for American History I aced it, got the highest in the whole school, and I credit it all to these books.
They are a great way to learn American History.
I found the whole series at a yard sale this summer, and bought them, excited to read them again.
But they weren't as good the second time.
In fact, I didn't even finish the series.
Maybe you have to know nothing about American History to really get into these books...I don't know.
The Kent family splits, one heading west to new and yet untame territories.
Another Kent returns to where it all began bringing the epoch full circle.
The Lawless is volume VII of the Kent Family Chronicles and continues this epic tale of America.
The rich and powerful, poor and destitute all make their mark in a country destined for greatness.
This is a great book in even greater series depicting a country’s struggle from independence, through expansion and finally greatness.
I recommend this book to everyone as it also has all the elements of greatness.
Book 7 of 8 of the Kent Family Chronicles brings us full force into the labor union issues of the 1870's.
Because of the tangle, Courtleigh has vowed to destroy Gideon, his family, and his mistress.
Because of pressing railroad business, strikes, and just life in general Courtleigh's efforts come and go...allowing Gideon time to ease off...and then not be watchful...which is never a good thing.
A good book.
It had some horrors, but nothing like book #3.
It exposes the reader to the strain of Gideon's family life, his unrequited love for Julia, and his struggle to become a "self-made" man.
Gideon wasn't much of a student in his childhood and he finds he must work harder in his adult life to obtain the skills necessary to join the family publishing company.
A reader can feel the pain of his wife's alcohol addiction along with the emotional withdrawal of his children.
A hateful foe stalks his family.
He has left the love of his life (Julia).
And he's wracked by self-doubt.
I read books 2-7 of this series in the last weeks of Feb 2013. While I liked the continuation of the family name through each generation, I could have done without every single important female of the Kent family being raped, sometimes repeatedly. They no sooner got power and money than they lost it, and family members ran the gamut from good to brilliant to corrupt to sleazy to fierce to insane to bloodthirsty. Lots of historical info, also, which made the story more real and interesting. But I would not recommend this series, save book #4
Own paperback 7 of 8.
Post-Civil War the Kent family is finding their way.
Jeremiah has “disappeared” and is feared to have been a casualty during the war by his family; in reality he has survived, taken a different name and is wandering the West making a living by hunting and gambling.
Meanwhile, Michael Boyle is building the first coast-to-coast railroad and finding his way.
The 7th book in this series, this novel covers a wide variety of historic topics from unionism, railroads, big bosses, and the Impressionist movement.
It is probably one of my favorite books within this series – it covers such an interesting time period with such a varied grouping of characters.
"The Lawless" (Kent Family Chronicles, #7) follows the lives of the 3 Kent brothers, Gideon, Matt and Jeremiah.
Gideon becomes a labor activist, seeking the organization of unions and a better life for the employees.
But this is also the time of the "Bosses" in Chicago and they will do everything in their power to strike down any union activity.
The Kent family believes that Jeremiah was killed in the War. Matt goes to Paris to continue his artist profession.
John Jakes does immense research while writing these books and you learn about the history of America through the lives of the Kent family.
The second to last book of the Kent series deals with the labor union issues and woman’s suffrage of the late 19th century and follows the lives of the 3 Kent brothers Gideon, Matt and Jeremiah as well as Amanda Kent’s widowed daughter in law Julia, whose live becomes intertwined with that of the Kent’s once more through her love affair with Gideon.
One of our great writers!The author brings history alive with his characters and there lives and interactions. I highly recommend all of his books!
My favorite one so far!Now, on to volume 8!
Another in the Kent series read in the 70s.
Possibly the best of the series so far. Set in the 1870's, it focuses on one branch of the Kent family in the west and major cities. Lots of adventure!
8 out of 10
This is a like reading a soap opera in the fact that it is additive, but it is fun because of the historical background.
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
Post-Civil War.Oh, the Kent family.
They're like the Forest Gump of literature: anything big that happened in history, they were there; anyone famous in history, they knew.
But I do love them.Book 7, like all the other books in the series, is a book of trials and tribulations, the little guy fighting for what he believes in, striving to make oneself better, and heartbreak -- both romantic, personal, and professional.
Gideon fights for the rights of laborers, which brings ire from big business.
It tracks the stories of Jephtha Kent's three sons: Gideon, the newspaper publisher fighting for union rights; Matt, the tortured artist living in France; and Jeremiah, roaming the wild west under various assumed names.
Jeremiah is thought dead by his family, disenchanted Matt refuses to return to America, and Gideon's marriage is falling apart.
Eventually, the paths of the brothers cross again and Gideon's life connects with a former branch of the Kent family in his dead cousin Louis' ex-wife, Julia, against the historical backdrop of the rise of labor unions, the great Chicago fire, and the exploration of the West.
This is volume 7 of the Kent Family Chronicles.
Most of the book deals with Gideon and his horrible marriage with Margaret.
I felt sorry for Gideon with all he had to deal with due to Margaret's insanity.
Don't get me wrong, Gideon didn't handle things the way he should have but I couldn't attack him too much based on his homelife.Gideon also had to deal with Tom Courtleigh who has vowed revenge on Gideon and his family following a confrontation.
This conflict plays out throughout thte book reaching a climax at the end.Looking foward to reading the final volume The Americans soon.
The melodramatic saga of the Kent family continues with a novel that covers a span of American history not often chronicled in historical fiction. This novel's focus on income inequality, robber barons and the emergence of the labor movement is perhaps the most interesting segment of the series considering recent trends in American politics, income distribution and political influence. As usual, John Jakes introduces flawed and enigmatic protagonists along with arch villains to keep the story lively and interesting.
If you want to know your history read this series. This one is post civil war and you learn a lot about the unions trying to make their way into the work scene. Interesting look at how society viewed artists and people who chose to become actors and actresses for the play troupes. I would have given it five stars but I wish John Jakes would give the Kent family a break. All families have their troubles but whoa!
This is mostly the story of Gideon Kent and Julia. It deals with women’s suffrage, the robber barons, and the labor movement in the second half of the nineteenth century. Through the eyes of Mathew Kent, it also looks at the beginning of the Impressionist movement in Paris. Through Jeremiah Kent, it takes a brief look at life in the cattle towns such as Abilene. For me, this book was the best of the Kent Family Chronicles so far, though Amanda Kent is still my favorite character.
The Lawless by John JakesThis book just continues the story of the Kent Family. I love the history of the politics of this time, not so different then today's struggles against Corporations and bad politicians. The author seems to write with a thesaurus in one hand and great imagination in the other! It's nice to be challenged by new words which stimulate the brain! These are easy books to read and sprinkled with bits of history!
I can't really say that the Kents change very much from generation to generation/book to book, but they remain an engaging lot.2/19: This was as engaging a tale as its predecessors, and as I'm sure I've already said, Jakes is an old-fashioned storyteller who isn't above ending a chapter - or a book - with a cliffhanger.
more of the kent family chronicles, this book covers the end of the civil war, the greed and corruption after it, the building of the trans continental railroad, and the settling of the west. as always the historical timeline and data are impeccable, set in a family story that makes america more real, at least for me.
I can't get enough of John Jakes. It got to the point where I just bought all his books and am reading them one after another.The Kent Family series is well-written and historically accurate. I think I'll make my kids read these when they're in high school.
Gideon!I think the main character in this book, Gideon Kent, is my favorite character in all of these books. He's handsome, he's smart, he cares about his family--the current and the past. Now time to tackle the final book in this series.
#7 in the Kent Family Chronicles. I am getting close to the end. It is fascinating reading about one family and seeing how certain genes are passed along through the generations. It is Historical fiction and I enjoy how I can relate to so many of the stories.
I think it was not a very good book the story was confusing switching to past to present. The main characters does not do any thing to help the the village but just wait until another hero arrives. I do not recommend this book to anyone that like western/ action books.
