https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292408.Angle_of_Repose
The daughter is a flower child from Berkeley and our old-fogey narrator spares no words in telling us what he thinks about that generation.The historical saga is mainly the true story of Mary Hallock Foote, child of a wealthy New York Quaker family, born in 1847.
It was as if she had gone to Mars.To keep her brain alive, she writes frequently to literary friends back east (often without seeing them for years) and we a learn a lot about her marriage, their family hardships and her financial struggles from these real letters.
Starting out, Lyman seemed like a stock character – the crusty recluse – but he becomes more central and more nuanced as the book goes on.
Interesting HistoryIt’s an impressive laundry list of things the curious reader can learn more about: technology of the time (from Oliver’s various engineering projects), culture (the arts community in NY, pioneer life in the West, the opulent part of Mexico where Susan and Oliver almost stayed for a job), and manners (subtle social conventions, shady business dealings, dirty politics).
Conflict Clashes were easy to come by when the refined East (civilized society) met the rough-and-tumble West (opportunity).
I read this book based largely on the Goodreads reviews.
Maybe I'm not as smart as other reviewers, or maybe other reviewers give it high praise because it was a Pulitzer Prize winner and they didn't want to look dumb (something to which I have no aversion), or maybe this was just a fluke, but I didn't think this book was worth reading.
I started the book about 4 or 5 times, and when I finally did slog through it, it was in 5 and 10 page increments.
My bottom-line, four word review is: This book is boring.Not to say that it didn't have good points.
The book has no plot.
Update....
geeeezzz Marie!!!
Another $1.99 Kindle gem this morning- ( I bought it myself) ...
It’s true I never wrote a review- read it before I did such foolish things ...
haha..But if readers have not read this book yet - TIMELESS ( and Crossing to Safety by Wallace Stegner...
also TIMELESS)...
you’re missing two wonderful books.
Two of my all time favorites!!!!
I’m sure you can find more detailed reviews either here on Goodreads or Amazon - Angle of Repose won the Pulitzer Prize.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!OH MY GOSH ....Here is another book I never wrote a review ---Its sooooooooooooooooooooooooooo good!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!One of my all favorite books!
Both the author and the narrator are fairly conservative with respect to history and although capable of tenderness, both are afflicted with a deprecating view of women which also hampered my enjoyment.
Perhaps you will say that Roth or Updike are even more deprecating to which I will answer: they don't pretend to be sort of hip old farts like the narrator in this book feigning a modern attitude, but in a sort of condescending way in his dialogues with Shelley while in fact being quite reactionary.
Little did I expect that the taming of the Wild West could be so intricately reflected in the ongoing evolution of a marriage, with all its tensions, compromises and sporadic moments of exultation; a marriage that seemed doomed to failure from the start.Lyman Ward, retired historian and scholar, now prostrated in a wheelchair, sets his mind to write the story of his grandparents and their generation, of the many young adventurers who embarked on a non-return trip to the inhospitable Western lands to lay down the foundations of a future civilization in the second half of the nineteenth century.The evocative, fast-paced storytelling takes the reader into virgin landscapes across the American border, from Idaho to Mexico, featuring the West as the silent protagonist of this historical epic, mixing flawless and highly descriptive narration with letters that document the daily life and struggles of Sue and Oliver Ward to make a home of this remote, unforgiving territory.
”I am on my grandparents’ side. I believe in Time, as they did, and in the life chronological rather than in the life existential. We live in time and through it, we build our huts in its ruins, or used to, and we cannot afford all these abandonings.”  ”I can look in any direction by turning my wheelchair, and I choose to look back … that is the only direction we can learn from.” While confined to a wheelchair, Lyman Ward begins to read through his grandmother’s papers, her stories, old letters
While confined to a wheelchair, Lyman Ward begins to read through his grandmother’s papers, her stories, old letters, and their story.
”But I would like to hear your life as you heard it, coming at you, instead of hearing it as I do, a sober sound of expectations reduced, desires blunted, hopes deferred or abandoned, chances lost, defeats accepted, griefs borne.”
I added this book to my list of Want-to-Reads back at the beginning of February 2016, after reading Stegner’s “Crossing to Safety” in 2014, and debating which Stegner novel to add, so sure that I’d already read his best.
I'm sure I will read it again a few more times.
And I'm sure that the more years of marriage I've logged, the more I will get out of this book.
Marriage, and what it takes -- and takes out of you -- to make it work is the main theme of this book.
He masterfully winds together multiple plot lines, which span centuries, and uses them to enrich and illuminate each other.
He also creates a vivid sense of place in his descriptions of the 19th century American West.
But how could you write a realistic book about marriage with perfectly likable characters?
Retired historian Lyman Ward charts the remarkable story of his grandparents and in particular his grandmother Susan Burling Ward, confined to a wheelchair in their old home he goes through many a letter starting from the latter stages of the ninetieth century regarding their first encounter, marriage, children, friends and work colleagues, and long travels in search of work opportunities for Lyman's grandfather Oliver Ward who is trying and often failing to tap into the development of mining.
Having been bought up east in the New York area where civilization is settled and life grand, Susan would go on to make the ultimate sacrifice regarding her own aspirations and leaving behind her family and very close friend Augusta to travel far west with her husband who has a clear vision for their future.
This story beautifully illustrates the dynamic forces at work in their marriage – an unlikely union between the genteel and educated Susan from the east and Oliver Ward, an unworldly and straightforward mining engineer.
Over the course of their marriage, scars from Oliver’s failed business ventures, their constant relocations and the reality of late 19th century frontier life intervene.
As he researches his grandparent’s complex relationship issues, Lyman Ward increasingly gains some insight into his own failed marriage.I was surprised, by the end, at my depth of feeling for this couple.
Susan Burling, the narrator’s grandmother and focus of the novel, is a displaced, educated woman from the East coast who falls in love with an idealistic engineer seeking his fortune in the West.
The conflict between the Idea and the Real, the imagined West and the brutal, tedious, dirty reality of frontier life, makes for a dynamic and dramatic narrative.It is also a book about love, about what a marriage can mean, about betrayal and forgiveness and the stumbling truths of our lives.
an accidental brushing of shoulders or touching of hands ...
He is a true American master of the novel and deserves recognition as such.
They are the sterner stuff that the West was forged from, but they maintain their sensibilities and weaknesses--the flaws that make them all too human.I have been married for 35 years to a man I both love and respect.
Marriage is work, with compromise and obstacles, and if you throw in the difficulties of life in the late 1800s and settling the West, understandably challenging.
At the same time, I want to allow others to read and enjoy it as I have without a single spoiler to be had anywhere.
The book is hauntingly true and ruthlessly introspective and it left me, at times, gasping for breath at the beauty of its lyricism - it could serve well as a master class in honest writing.
Angle of Repose shines a light into a dark corner that exists within all but the most enlightened among us and Stegner unburdens his literary soul within these pages in a way that lesser writers fear.
Angle of Repose is, at present, the best novel I’ve read, displacing The Grapes of Wrath and The Great Gatsby, which shared that place in my thinking until now.
Some of his best known books include The Angle of Repose (awarded the Pulitzer Prize, and voted by readers of the San Francisco Chronicle the number one novel written about the American West), The Big Rock Candy Mountain, The Spectator Bird and Beyond the Hundredth Meridian - the latter a biography of the naturalist John Wesley Powell (1834-1902), a multifaceted man known for the 1869 expedition he led into the Southwest, a cartographic and scientific endeavor which included a raft trip down the Colorado River, the first documented passage by non-Native Americans through the Grand Canyon.The title, the story behind the storyThe angle of reposePerhaps this is the place to mention how I heard of this novel.
A fitting enough title for a story that had a lot to do with mining and engineering, but in Stegner’s capable hands it comes to mean much more.Telling the story of his Victorian grandparents as they helped to settle and make civilized the Wild West, retired historian Lyman Ward researches his grandmother’s old letters and recreates not just a biography and more even that a documentary of a family’s progression, but also a journey into what it means to be civil and what marriage and family ties can mean.
Susan's published writings and illustrations and her personal letters of her married life in the American West  provide him  (and we readers) wonderful insight into the human experience--interpersonal  relationships, a marriage between social opposites--seamlessly juxtaposed with Lyman's  estranged family in 1970.
Oliver Ward was a mining engineer and inventor, whose job prospects were often sketchy, while  Susan made her own money selling her stories and sketches, money  that  Oliver was too proud  to allow being spent on anything a man was expected  to provide.
Wonderful,  complex characters who you get to know  intimately, or as intimately as Susan's letters allowed.
On the Wings of Love"He who binds to himself a joyDoes the winged life destroy,But he who kisses the joy as it fliesLives in eternity's sun rise."William BlakeThis novel is structured with a fictional novelist writing a novel (meta-fiction) based on the life of his grandmother (which character is partly based the life of a real woman).
The story travels between 1) the 1st person account of the novelist, a retired lit prof who recently had a leg amputated, after which his wife left him for his surgeon; and,2) the novel within, written in the objective 3d person about his prudish grandmother, a Quaker-raised painter/author from the Northeast who married a mining engineer (grandpa) and moved west, thereafter migrating frequently to new places/jobs between 1870 & 1895.
As I read this, I thought, "this is about a 4 star read." So why did I give it 5 stars? It is such a beautiful book, that's why. There were many parts that didn't seem to move along, which is why I thought I would be stingy, but I'm so very glad the author took his time. And I felt myself talking to the characters, mostly Susan. "Don't be so removed from your life - how many do you get?" Could I be so involved with a story and not give it 5 stars?
Lyman decides that the best use of his last years of life is to cast this fixed look back into the past, throwing himself with dogged determination into the study of the papers, mostly letters, left behind by his grandmother: Susan Burling Ward.In writing down the history of his grandmother, Lyman offers us a comprehensive look at how “the West was won”, as Susan Wards leaves behind a comfortable and socially rewarding artistic career in New York in the 1890’s to follow her husband, engineer Oliver Ward, into the untamed, rough territories of California, Colorado, Mexico and Idaho.
The lady died many years before Stegner was born, and he doesn't ever even imply that the words are his own.Sheesh.So anyway, back to why you should read this book: Right there in the title is the key to understanding and appreciating Stegner as a writer.
The poetic-sounding title refers to an engineering concept.
The angle of repose refers to the last stable point a granular substance achieves before a cascading failure occurs.
That's the most perfect title for this book I can imagine.(And if you're an engineer, please feel free to correct my misunderstanding of the term.
Having just finished this book, I find my thoughts engaged in a heated debate.
In fact, were it not for the commitment I have to lead the discussion in an upcoming book group, I may have totally abandoned this novel.
Finally after about seventy pages, I simply admitted to myself that there were bound to be ups and downs in this book.
Scholar and friends mark this Pultizer Prize book as Stegner's best.
Ironically, I have just finished two other books written by students of Wallace Stegner.
This book still slips into my thoughts and in all honesty the reviews and responses from other Goodread friends have influenced me.
In today's publishing world, Stegner wouldn't have gotten away with such a ponderous, heavy book.
There are tons of good reviews about Angle of Repose on this website that tell about the plot, and so I'll leave that to you to discover.
Really, when I was done reading it I felt like a heavy load was taken off my back, so I truly don't want to revisit the story.
Trin, who gave a review on this website, expressed my feelings: "This fits into the category of "Books I feel I ought to like but really, really don't."
This could have been jarring, but I had more of a feeling that Lyman and I were writing Grandmother's life together, and every time I felt the need for a breather, for a bit of thinking about what was happening to her at that point, there was the modern world again, with Lymanwondering about the very things I was, or about something that was happening then in his own not entirely stress-free life.We live with Grandmother through the various phases of her life, from California to Colorado to Mexico to Idaho and beyond, She was an artist and author, a woman who had to bear the responsibility of providing for her family when her husband's projects did not go as smoothly as they should have.
It really slowed down my reading pace...at least at first.Stegner can definitely write a good story, and it did not escape my notice that this tale is richly detailed.
(Subsequent research revealed that Stegner actually had based his story on the letters of Mary Hallock Foote, to the point where he actually copied passages.)Stegner tells a double tale here, with the story of Susan Ward entwined with that of her grandson, an embittered and abandoned amputee who is researching a biography of his grandmother.
we are shunted back and forth in time, from lyman in his present (1970), to the depiction of susan's life in a biography he is creating about her, and also to her letters to her first love and best friend, augusta (drake) hudson.
as it stands, i think their use only underscores the feat of engineering that is this novel's construction, as they serve as the backbone to the two imagined tales refracted from them to the stories of lyman and his grandmother.the three narrative ropes are braided together masterfully and the echoes of the grandmother he depicts are often found in his perspective of his own time.
It's lauded as Stegner's masterpiece and I completely agree.
Stegner tells the story of a man who has a disease that is crippling him.
He's living in his ancestral home, being taken care of by an old, old, family friend.
He's a historian and feels compelled to research his paternal grandmother using the journals and keepsakes that are at the house.
Stegner weaves the life story of the grandmother (and grandfather) and the story of the historian together.
As the protagonist is making realizations and grudgingly realizing the two may be compared--the reader is also--and making his/her revelations about the story.
What unfolds is a breathtaking piece about marital/familial relationships.
I really enjoyed this book! This is a book of fiction, but it's like a biography, history, and psychology all rolled into one eloquently written story. Lyman Ward looses himself in writing about his grandmother, not only to forget about his troubles, but also to understand himself better. To find strength, or answers, in how to deal with what life has thrown his way.
The first reference to it was made by Susan Ward who used it in her writing to describe “human as well as detrital rest”, which pointed to her "own wandering and uneasy life" as she followed her mining engineer husband on his pioneering adventures out West.
There was some really exquisite writing about Leadville, the wild, beautiful place where the Wards lived in a log cabin with a view of the mountains.
Stegner coaxed ineffable beauty out of the mountains where "grass won't grow, cats can't live, chickens won't lay."I can go on about why I truly enjoyed this novel.
"A writer is an organism that will go on writing even after its heart has been cut out." How can someone fall in love with a man's words as they flow effortlessly on paper, creating an atmosphere of dust, angst and raw emotion, yet feel like there's a superfluity of thoughts, making you want to throw a fit and toss the book on the ground? Stegner did this to me with the lack of editing in 'Angle of Repose'; it made me want to throw the book from utter boredom at times, but also engage myself so
How can someone fall in love with a man's words as they flow effortlessly on paper, creating an atmosphere of dust, angst and raw emotion, yet feel like there's a superfluity of thoughts, making you want to throw a fit and toss the book on the ground?
Stegner did this to me with the lack of editing in 'Angle of Repose'; it made me want to throw the book from utter boredom at times, but also engage myself solely with his prose, at others.
I did enjoy this more than not, but it'll be awhile before I try Stegner once again.
4.5 stars.I was trying to think of a quote from this book which might sum it up best. I think I've narrowed it down to this:I suppose in a way we deserve the people we marry.(p. 204)Now, I'm just trying to figure if I agree with that statement and to what extent.There were so many beautiful (achingly so) sections in this book, I lamented the fact that it wasn't mine to highlight and mark up (yes, library, I was good to your book).To spare you, I will limit myself to three: Touch. It is touch tha
4.5 stars.I was trying to think of a quote from this book which might sum it up best.
I think I've narrowed it down to this:I suppose in a way we deserve the people we marry.(p.
Touch.
It is touch that is the deadliest enemy of chastity, loyalty, monogamy, gentility with its codes and conventions and restraints.
By touch we are betrayed and betray others ...
an accidental brushing of shoulders or touching of hands ...
hands laid on shoulders in a gesture of comfort that lies like a thief, that takes, not gives, that wants, not offers, that awakes, not pacifies.
