https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7260188-mockingjay
But towards the end of this novel, I didn't give a flying fart about Katniss's love life and who she ended up with, because everything seemed like such a hopeless, depressing mess that there was no point.
I liked that Katniss had 2 seconds of mental clarity and shot Coin instead of Snow (the only time in the book when she was truly thinking clearly and acting of her own accord).
There are probably some other things that I'll update this review with once disappointment and frustration are no longer clouding my brain.I wouldn't have minded so much if it had been a page-turner that was exciting to read, but trying to finish this book felt like a chore.
Because it’s good in a very heartbreaking, chilling, haunting, intense way.Katniss is a different person from the first two books.
As I’m stewing over the novel I read every word of yesterday, I think, “Did I really love it?” And then, “How could I love it?” I shake my head.
The last three pages make all the heavy, intense, painfulness of the rest of the book almost worth it, in a strange way.
Not because I didn't like the ending, but because I simply feel emptied out for the time being.
I think that unfulfilled wish is, at the end of the day, why I'm feeling this way right now.
Mockingjay is indeed a DARK, DARK book full of deaths, sacrifices, torture, betrayal and despair, a book which takes you to a very disturbing but very real place.I have no doubt the novel will have thousands of readers livid, especially the crowd of readers who mistakenly think The Hunger Games trilogy is mostly dedicated to Team Gale/Team Peeta dilemma with some revolt thrown in as a picturesque backdrop.
It takes a very difficult but honest route, portraying the infinitely damaging consequences of war (regardless of the righteousness of its cause) and Katniss's journey to stay true to herself and do the best she can.
SERIOUSLY, WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF AN ENDING IS THAT?Ok, short summary.
And now that we've gotten that over with...What the fuck happened to Katniss?!
How did she end up being so admirable and awesome in the first two books and turned into such a sniveling, squishy mess in this one?
And Katniss is like all noooooooo, we have to save ALL THE PEOPLE, INCLUDING THE ONE WHO COULD GET US ALL KILLED.
And it's to save your people, not your boyfriend, fiancé, whatever.And that ending.
You made us care about these people, and WE DESERVE A BETTER ENDING THAN THAT.
There is a lot of bleakness in the other books in the series, but it is balanced with a humanity and hope that I think is crucial in YA fiction.My review of Hunger Games states that Collins took an unbelievable story and made it believable.
Not that this story is any more unbelievable than The Hunger Games, but Collins delivered this one with such a numb, detached string of events that relied on violence instead of characters to deliver her message.
I didn't want to follow Katniss in this story.She shut down in the end, but really she'd been shutting down the entire book.
If you're sensitive to pointless deaths and gratuitous violence, then this is not the book for you.Actually, I like that word.
Everything in this book was gratuitous and over the top, from the wangst to the ridiculous romantic interludes in the middle of battle scenes, and from the candy-gore violence to the stupid, overly-disgusting deaths of several characters who did not need to die.
Yes, once I'd forced myself to come to terms with the fact that that wasn't going to happen, I did enjoy the last ten pages greatly.
annoyance that katniss let herself be so easily used, didn't really care about anything, and was idle for so much of the book.
i’ve always loved her because she was a character that didn’t break down easily but mental breakdowns seemed like her favorite activity in this book.
i’ve been a peeta supporter since the first chapter of the first book and even i hated how katniss and gale ended.
i just think that maybe i was expecting this last book to follow basically the same format as the hunger games and catching fire, and i’m just ridiculously (like seriously to the point where it’s pathetic) disappointed that it took such a different turn.
SPOILERS!!!*******************Ugh. I was just thankful that I decided to be grown-up and not wait until midnight to get this book and then stay up all night reading it.
In Mockingjay, the author robs her readers of what they (I) crave!
I have to chalk this work up to "Twilight Syndrome"...gifted authors with an original page-turning first book, followed by hurried, increasingly poorly written and thought-out sequels.Bottom line: You have to read it, but don't spend money on it- wait and borrow it from your friend.
And then fondly recall the excellence of the first book.
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: Rather than tell an interesting story, it’s meant above all to repulse us into reflection on the cruelty and horror of war.
It would be totally unrealistic of me to expect much more of Katniss considering all she's done...Well, except for the cute little nine-year-old Htoo twins who lived in the Karen National Rebel camp when the enemy came and all the soldiers ran away leaving their AK-47's.
I'm saying I doubt, realistically, that they'd have a choice in the matter.Now, apart from the ending - which I didn't mind, just was baffled by - I loved and adored this book.Peeta's hijacking was devestating, Katniss' mental breakdown was harrowing.
Mockingjay, the final book in Suzanne Collin's Hunger Games Trilogy.
For a year, I had been anxiously waiting to read the about the adventures of the rebels, the hopefully happy ending.
However, even though there is so much death in this book, most of it comes to new characters; the leader of district 13, Coin; Bogg, one of Katniss's bodyguards; mostly new or unknown characters that pass on.
But alot of the death-related sadness in the book comes not from individual characters, but more from Katniss's vivid description of the mass homicide that they are left with at the end of the war.
However, Katniss appeared to stagnate, whereas the remaining characters and overall story arc continued on without her.
Where did the potential leader go I ask you?This late in the game, Katniss needed to grow as a character, to complete the story arc, if not her own character’s journey, properly.
Katniss has been used to spur the other districts into revolution because she is supposed to possess strength in character as seen in the Hunger Games.
I was expecting carnage, war, suffering, and terror seen through the eyes of our previous heroine (Katniss) and hero (Peeta).
these are the things i have done for this book:i have given up my birthday, waiting in line from 5 until its midnight release, braving the crowds and noise and commotion...i have missed my subway stop and ended up taking the crappy way into work...i have seriously considered calling out of work to sit at home and finish it...i have read in elevators, while walking down the street, walking up the stairs, while eating dinner without even tasting it...i have rushed my beloved dawn powell's book, racing through it so i could get to this book as quickly as possible...i have come home to a laundry bag full of clothing that needed to be folded and a bunch of dishes that needed to be done - ignoring which usually gives me mental discomfort...
Peeta is a needy little baker boy I’ll never get over how the author can justify his camouflage techniques born as a result from his cake decorating experience……3.
4. This book did not make me think, as everything is on the surface.
Peeta: We must survive these games.
I shall use my cake decorating skill to our advantage!Katniss:Ok. 7.
The whole series is a combination of cheap thrills in which the last book is a complete mess.I hate this series so much; I will never understand its popularity.
The Hunger Games- A transparent one star2.
Mockingjay- A terrible one star
There were too many times I skimmed through this one, too many times I came very close to abandoning the read all together simply due to the story and it's telling.If you read my review of the second volume in this trilogy you know that one of the things that bothered me most was the immature and selfish character of Katniss.
The first book is a very good read, the second is pretty good, but this, the end volume is very, very weak.
This book, to me, was the story of what happens when suddenly the person you trusted the most in the world sees everything you do as evil.
It was so beautiful and tragic to watch that in this book, and it resonated on such a personal level with me, that after reading it I had to rebuild a lot of how I see myself.
It makes sense that she published this story in three parts, but I think it could also be read as one whole.
Or District 13, for that matter.Even free from the clutches of the Capitol, Katniss still has a role to play - whether she wants it or not.
She did all her wonderful, brilliant, and brave acts of defiance out of the drive to help her loved ones survive and out of pure human compassion which is plentiful under her seemingly gruff and cynical exterior.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------And as for what occupied the minds of many a teenager reading this book - who will Katniss ultimately end up with, Gale or Peeta?
أهلا بك في نهاية أهم ملحمات الديستوبيا في العصر الحديث "Are you, are youComing to the treeWhere they strung up a man they say murdered three.Strange things did happen hereNo stranger would it beIf we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.”"هل تأتي، هل تأتي الي الشجرةحيث علقوا منها رجلا يقال أنه قتل ثلاثةأشياء غريبة حدثت هنا ولكن لن يحدث الأغربفي حال تقابلنا هنا بمنتصف الليل، عند مشنقة الشجرة" الحبكة التي يراها البعض خطرا علي بعض انظمة الحكمأحداث ثورية واقعية علي نظام فاسد ديكتاتوري، يمتص جهد شع
وقد وظفتها بشكل رائع خلال الاحداث فعلا حتي نهايتها , وأثرت في جدا -------------------------- ثالثا : الخاتمة EPILOGUE تتميز هنا في العاب المجاعات ان اخر فصل في النهاية اقوي وملائم بشكل اروع للسلسلة, بعكس نوعا ما في هاري بوتر والتي كان بها "كلاشيه" النهاية السعيدة المعتادة -وحتي ندمت عليها لاحقا جي كي رولينج في أمر رون وهرميونيأعجبني جدا النهاية لكل الشخصيات "التي بقيت علي قيد الحياة فقط بالطبع" وحتي نهاية الطاغي /الطغاةوالسؤال المعلق...هل فعلا القادم سيكون أفضل؟أعتقد ان النهاية جائت واقعية وكيف تؤثر الثورة في نفوس البعضسواء بالايجابية او بالسلبية-وظهور القط في النهاية كما ببداية الرواية جعلني اتأثر كثيرا , المشهد تم تقديمه بشكل ممتاز في الفيلم الأخير- “Are you, are youComing to the treeWhere I told you to run, so we’d both be free.Strange things did happen hereNo stranger would it beIf we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.”هل تأتي ,هل تأتي الي الشجرة"إلي حيث قلت لكي أن تهربي ,لنكون سويا أحرارأشياء غريبة حدثت هنا ولكن لن يحدث الأغرب"في حال تقابلنا هنا بمنتصف الليل, عند مشنقة الشجرة
Sorry to anyone who's enjoyment of the book was ruined, just go find other reviews to read, nobody's perfect.Also I changed some parts because, again, the review should be hidden but...yeahParts I change are lower case in the middle of the caps, it should be pretty obvious*I hope I changed all the parts that people were upset about with spoilers and just let me know is anything else is a spoiler.OMG I CANNOT BELIEVE all those people DIE!!!!!!!!!AND the end with gale/petta thingAND Katniss DOESN'T EVEN CARE what happened?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!I MEAN AT FIRST I WAS A TOTAL TEAM GALE BUT THEN I WAS LIKE WELL PEETA IS OKISH I GUESS MAYBE BUT AS LONG AS GALE STILL HAS THAT SPECIAL BOND AND HES HER BEST FRIEND AND HES THE ONE SHE CONFIDES IN AND STUFF AND SHE LOVES HIM AS A FRIEND THAN OK FIND GO MARRY PEETA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
“You love me. Real or not real?""Real.”     "Friend. Lover. Victor. Enemy. Fiancee. Target. Mutt. Neighbor. Hunter. Tribute. Ally. I'll add it to the list of words I use to try to figure you out.”     “Stay with me.Always.”
And I think Madge likes Gale and I think they're gunna end up together (if he doesn't die) and Peeta and Katniss will too.
And I bet something bad's gunnna happen to either Katniss or Gales family, someone's gunna die (obviously), and someone's gunna get held captive and they're gunna have to break into the capital and rescue them...
I dont think so, but maybe Snow drops all of Katniss's 'people' into the arena: kats family, gales family, peeta, haymitch, madge, etc.
P.S. And it needs to be said: even though the Peeta-Katniss-Gale love triangle is very much present in this book, it's not the focal point of the story.
I feel that Katniss, by starting that book about everyone she knew who died, was doing what my father needs to do (although, as far as I know, he probably has done something similar--like I said, he doesn't ever talk about it with me).
About Peeta vs GaleOkay, I've already said it but I feel it bears repeating since so many people hate this book simply because of who Katniss chooses in the end: this series is about so much more than romantic love.
The main problem I have with this book is similar to the first book many of the battle scenes do not make sense to me, they are as confused as Katniss' mental state.
As interesting as the book was to read I just could not give it 5 stars simply for the confusion of so many of the scenes.
Other thing that do not make sense is the rebels are using machine guns on the hover crafts but it is not till Gale and Katness with bow and arrows (exploding arrows) start shooting the things down that they start to do any damage.
One taught me pain
This series will never get old for me - it's fantastic.I like the ending a lot better after rereading it I have to say!
When I first read 'Mockingjay' I was a silly little fourteen year old, drunk up on the fast paced action and immediate danger Katniss faced in the first two novels.
Mrs. Collins had better be glad she will never meet me, or I may go Annie Wilks on her ass, like in that amazing book: Misery I am going to split this review into two sections.
The most important bits of this story (when Peeta, Annie and Johanna were rescued, when the Capitol was overthrown, and the Trial of President Snow and Katniss) Were totally and utterly overlooked.
In some cases, time goes on and I end up appreciating a book more than I did originally, like Ender's Game or The Great Gatsby.
I was expecting her (and Gale and Peeta) to spend some time on the love story issue, and to bring about the fall of Snow and all that.
What disappointed me the most about Mockingjay is that I feel like I never got the resolution that I was looking for.
Most final books in a series bring all their loose ends together.
Now there’s another book coming out in a few months that could totally screw with the resolution in COG, but Clare tied up her loose ends.
Collins is without a doubt FEARLESS.I am still in complete and absolute shock as I contemplate the events I never imagined would occur actually took place in this book; characters I never fathomed would be sacrificed, found their final chapters in this installment; and paths I took for granted would be avoided were actually taken.
His reunion with the one person he loved was heart rending and that’s not all, but you’ll have to read to find out more about this hidden gem of a character that I never anticipated would surface at this final hour.This book ends with a dark and painful journey for Katniss and I found myself struggling with what she was going through as a result of her involvement in the revolution.
4.5 stars
However, in the Philippines, it means that the girl to whom you address this is very fortunate to have many guys falling for her.That, in this book is Katniss.
To make sure that the boys, Avon-make up and the signature but Batwoman-like costumes will be an envy of the whole universe, she is also being followed by a fleet of TV network people: a director, his assistant, cool (but one of them is mute) looking cameramen and a couple of other techical staff who Katniss calls as "insects."In fact, this book should be a good case study for Marketing cases in the MBA (paging MBA schools!).
