https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6205.Dusklands
Eugene è determinato a raggiungere l'obiettivo e ha molti strumenti a disposizione, ma la materia che tratta è scottante: di ogni dato o fotografia che guarda, memorizza, analizza, con angoscia crescente vede la brutalità inammissibile e l'altrettanto inammissibile "necessità"; la strada per uscirne, l'unica ad apparirgli via via sempre più limpida ed evidente, lo porterà alla pazzia.Il secondo racconto è ambientato nel XVIII secolo e ripercorre il viaggio di caccia di un lontano avo boero dell’autore – Jacobus Coetzee – nell’entroterra del Sudafrica, fino ad allora inesplorato, tra i nativi Namaqua, una tribù Ottentotta: esseri primitivi, senza alcun principio etico, dagli “occhi pieni di una desolata stupidità”, sporchi, puzzolenti, indolenti… uomini e donne che non riconoscono la superiorità di Jacobus, non lo rispettano, anzi, quando lui si ammala lo abbandonano, lo umiliano.

M. Coetzee winning his Nobel.It is composed of two stories about the complexity brought about by more powerful countries colonizing or taking over smaller or poorer countries.
The first story is about Eugene Dawn, who is assigned to work on a propaganda about Vietnam War in line with the government's psychological warfare.
Jacobus Coetzee's fate is similar to that of Eugene Dawn.
M. Coetzee put that final twist making the story totally different from that of Conrad's.Now, not an iota of doubt that Coetzee deserved his Nobel.
Each successive new novel since Disgrace I’ve put on my ‘to read list’ and never gotten around to.
Then, the other day browsing a charity shop, I saw a collection of four early Coetzee novels and, on impulse, bought the lot.
You don’t see any Coetzee’s, other than Disgrace, in charity shops very often.
Both are very well written – you’d expect nothing less from a Nobel Prize ‘winner’ – but the story of Jacobus Coetzee has more visceral impact, and the historical questions raised seem pertinent even today (which is Coetzee’s point).
Dusklands is not always an easy read, but it is an ultimately rewarding one (even if not all its elements work as well as they should).
دو داستان با درونمایهی ضداستعماری، مثل باقی آثار کوتزی. داستان اول درباره جنگ ویتنام و داستان دوم در ارتباط با استعمار آفریقای جنوبی و قتل عام بومیان آن است. کوتزی با زیرکی نکاتی روشنگرانه را در متن داستان گنجانیده که شاید در حالت معمول مخاطب حوصله خواندنشان را نداشته باشد اما در قالب داستان جذاب و خواندنی شدهاند. انتخاب دو ضدقهرمان به عنوان راوی به جذابیت داستان افزوده است، بخصوص زمانیکه روایت شکل حدیث نفس پیدا می کند
دو داستان با درون‌مایه‌ی ضداستعماری، مثل باقی آثار کوتزی. داستان اول درباره جنگ ویتنام و داستان دوم در ارتباط با استعمار آفریقای جنوبی و قتل عام بومیان آن است. کوتزی با زیرکی نکاتی روشن‌گرانه را در متن داستان گنجانیده که شاید در حالت معمول مخاطب حوصله خواندنشان را نداشته باشد اما در قالب داستان جذاب و خواندنی شده‌اند. انتخاب دو ضدقهرمان به عنوان راوی به جذابیت داستان افزوده است، بخصوص زمانی‌که روایت شکل حدیث نفس پیدا می کند
دو داستان با مضمون مشتركِ استعمار.داستان اول،پروژه ي ويتنام شرح زندگي يك متخصص آمريكايي طراحي جنگ ها
Of course, we could object that this is but the rough sketch of the vision and the power of the following of his works, or that the construction is wobbly, as it is made of two short stories in different times and settings.I cannot deny all that, but I think I read the book at the right moment, as I was researching how war narratives question gender, and more particularly masculinity.
Bien sûr, on pourra objecter qu'elle n'est que l’ébauche de la vision et de la puissance des œuvres qui vont suivre, ou que la construction en est bancale, reposant sur deux nouvelles séparées géographiquement et temporellement.C'est assurément vrai, mais je pense l'avoir lue au bon moment, en pleine recherche sur les interrogations sur le genre et la masculinité dans les récits de guerre.
13/02/18I exclusively re-read books which I've enjoyed the past but I had to re-read Dusklands for the postcolonial course I'm currently a participant in.
I'm glad I read it again; to be honest I'm not sure I understood it completely when I read it three years ago.
It is also funny how I was almost bored to death by the novella "The Vietnam Project" and were pretty engaged with "The Narrative of Jacobus Coetzee", which in the past was the other way around.Original review:I really liked the first part "The Vietnam Project" - the other part, "The Narrative of Jacobus Coetzee" not so much.
Coetzee's debut novel displays his flair for declarations and apt use of words. A short book consisting of two semi-related novellas, focusing on the interaction between two civilizations with unequal powers and it's impact on two individual lives. Not as powerful as his other works but still a good read.
The first one "The Vietnam Project," is narration of Eugene Dawn, a scientist writing a report for Department of Defense, on propaganda methods to be used in Vietnam War. Second part "The Narrative of Jacob Coetzee," is the story XVIII century Dutch farmer, an elephant hunter in conflict with the indigenous people of South Africa.
By saying it’s not an easy read I mean mostly the fact the structure is not reader friendly, two separate novellas, first ending shortly after you put an effort to go through the fragments of Eugene’s Vietnam report, second is twisting your guts with racist reasoning of XVIII white colonialist.
Verlo aprovechar la más mínima oportunidad de leer unas palabras, unas líneas: eso era también crítica.Después, escucharlo platicar sobre sus lecturas, siempre benévolo de mí, platicando como si yo comprendiera todo lo que decía y sin darse cuenta que hacía notas mentales de títulos, autores, películas, de todas las referencias que hacía para después ir en busca de ello.Miguel me hace ver que son los investigadores los que realizan una labor titánica, leyendo, estudiando, analizando, refutándose y demostrándose entre ellos, teorías, propuestas, metodologías, con el fin de decidir cuál es la literatura que vale la pena.Cuál es la literatura que debe permanecer.Gracias a su labor, seguimos revalorando obras como la Ilíada, desechando alguna que otra, y rescatando del olvido otras tantas más.Hay que mantener los libros a la mano, para poder volver a leerlos, para que nos recuerden por qué están ahí.
The inner visions and the complete self of both the protagonists, Eugene Dawn and the frontiersman, have been vividly characterized - a genuine credit to the experience and narrative technique of the author.
The narrative covering the Vietnam Project, the distinct war which America lost, is the setting for the writer.
The so called psychotic pressures a not so accomplished writer has to undergo with respect to the project and that of a family, a not so cooperative but emotional wife as was portrayed, marked well and does reach the nerve center of a reader in view of Eugene's utter helplessness.
J.M. Coetzee's first book, "Dusklands", is the fifth I have read by this author.
It is still better than 99% of fiction out there, though.The book is comprised of two separate short novellas, "The Vietnam Project" and "The Narrative of Jacobus Coetzee".
In the former, the narrator is a researcher working on a report about the effectiveness of psychological warfare against the North during the Vietnam War in the 1970's.
So-called professional reviewers point out the theme of colonialism: the European colonization of South Africa in the 1600-1700's is compared to U.S. attempts to prevail in the Vietnam war.
Jacobus Coetzee kills wild animals to feel alive.
But it was still a satisfying read.The first story in the book is entitled ‘The Vietnam Project’ and is about Eugene Dawn, a writer researching the effectiveness of the United States propaganda warfare in Vietnam.
What starts off as a somewhat dry dissertation on propaganda and a schizophrenic’s insights into Vietnam culture, jumps abruptly into a twisted delusional direction… work can do that to some people… I know.I thought the opening and closing lines were brilliant:“My name is Eugene Dawn.
Here goes.”...“I have high hopes of finding whose fault I am.”The second part of the book is called ‘The Narrative of Jacobus Coetzee’.
These two short novels, one about a writer going through a messy divorce and the other about an 18th century frontiersman and the Hottentots he has to deal with, are tied together by the single act of violence on which their stories turn.
Yes, that's nitpicking -- I recommend this short volume otherwise without reservation -- but having read his utterly amazing and fully realized novel "Disgrace," these two stories, his first published works, show a writer not yet at the height of his powers.
Just know that, unlike the main characters in these two stories, J.M. Coetzee eventually gets there.
Det er anden gang, at jeg læser Dusklands, og jeg må indrømme, at jeg har følt mig nødsaget til at revurdere min ellers lunkne anmeldelse fra 2014.
Jeg har læst bogen i et fag omkring postkolonial litteratur, hvor vi har anvendt den som et eksempel på fysisk og epistemisk vold.
Ved at smelte to lige dele fantastiske og forfærdelige narrativer sammen til et, giver Coetzees roman et fantastisk minutiøst og medmenneskeligt indblik i (post)kolonialismens rædsler og de ellers usynlige, bagvedliggende magtstrukturer.
Et klart must-read, hvis man interesserer sig for postkolonial litteratur, og åbenbart også en genlæsning værd.
"Dusklands" consists of two novellas, each concerning men who are pretty sure they know what's what.
The first man, Eugene Dawn, is an expert on psychological warfare, and the story, "The Vietnam Project," concerns his struggles with both his professional and his private lives.
His considering himself an intellectual realist does not keep him from doing some irrational things that get him into trouble.The second man, one Jacobus Coetzee, an 18th Century Dutch inhabitant of South Africa, goes on an elephant hunt and meets a group of Hottentots, the outcome being, perhaps predictably, violent.J.M. Coetzee is not afraid to depict humans at their worst.
Two narratives separated by about 200 years showcasing the horrors and megalomania created by colonisation and war and not seeing enemies as humans. The Vietnam War and the Dutch 'exploration' of inner South Africa are atrocities and create deformed figures in Eugene Dawn and Jacobus Coetzee, respectively. There's less nuance in this revelation than in later Coetzee novels. However, with brutality that rages through these two stories, it's interesting that the metafictional elements question how much outrage and anger we should use in castigating these figures in question. For after all, they are just fiction.
Whenever you open a book by J M Coetzee you know it will be an event. Even if you don't particularly enjoy the prose or the topic you find yourself holding your breath a little. Dusklands is no exception.A book which I felt is ultimately about repression made me think that history does repeat itself and all through it cultures have done unspeakable things to each other. This is not a pick me up read and definitely not a feel good read, however as with all Coetzee books it keeps you thinking stretches the little grey cells!
Intet har ændret sig haha, stadig 3 stjerner.
Un experimento.
En las dos historias independientes de que está conformada la novela, se le da tanta importancia al ritmo como al contenido, esas «superficialidades líricas» de que el autor se deshará en el futuro aquí todavía se muestran con orgullo, te mecen, te acompañan, realzan la riqueza de lo narrado y hasta el mero placer de la lectura.No sé si me estaré contradiciendo, dado que en otras ocasiones he alabado la capacidad de Coetzee para decirlo todo en muy pocas palabras, pero es que, ¿es necesariamente mejor un escrito escueto (como Hombre lento) que En medio de ninguna parte, la más «musical» de las obras de Coetzee?Supongo que, independientemente del tema o trama de cada una, ambas tienen su valor intrínseco.
What you do know, though, is that you will be calmly taken for a walk into a physical or metaphorical space, on a journey into the unknown or the new-to-you, where you will see strange and perhaps exotic things, and then you will be punched in the face.
It's more, "this is the world we all have created, why are you surprised by my punch?"As always, the compact, tight prose packs quite the punch, and one could write pages upon pages unpacking said punch [1].
Comparisons with Conrad are inevitable, especially in the second story; Jacobus Coetzee himself is a poor man's Kurtz, without the delusions of grandeur, while Dawn, like Kurtz, is drawn into madness.
But the juxtaposition of the two stories provokes a comparison between the crude racism of Jacobus Coetzee and the academic detachment of Eugene Dawn, which are aesthetically different but achieve the same effect: the dehumanising of their victims, making atrocities not only possible but inevitable in the pursuit of their exploitative ends.There is little humour in this book, except of the blackest possible kind, and it isn't a comfortable read.
It's a book worth reading, and reading it can be accomplished over the course of two or three evenings for a fast reader, or perhaps a week or two for a slower reader.The book itself is made up of two stories—one, about a psychotic propagandist who loses his mind attempting to resolve ethical contradictions in the Vietnam War while his family life implodes, the other, about a megalomaniacal Dutch explorer in South Africa.
It will make you think about war, and about exploration, and the way in which individuals move within (and outside of) national frameworks.
This was made up of two short stories about the ills of colonialism in Asia and Africa respectively.
I am no fan of the concept, and always made sure to teach students the disastrous consequences of colonialism in the world which we are still reeling from over a century later (and longer, depending on where we're talking about).
I did find his second story a bit more interesting because I am not as familiar with South Africa as I am with Vietnam, but the dude was such a jerk (like most colonialists I suspect) that I never developed a connection.
J.M. Coetzee's "Dusklands" is actually two short novellas -- both fairly brutal portrayals of revenge. I struggled through the first, "The Vietnam Project" which was really dry and somewhat boring until the final act, while I found "The Narrative of Jacobus Coetzee" far more interesting.This was Coetzee's debut novel -- I wouldn't say I particularly enjoyed these works, I can certainly see, if this is where he started, why he would go on to be awarded a Pulizter later on.I've read this really isn't a great introduction to his works so I perhaps started reading him with the wrong book.
3.5 stars.
Two novellas.
The first story called 'The Vietnam Project' is about Eugene Dawn, who writes a report on how propaganda can be effective on Vietnamese, set in 1972.
Eugene's report is neglected and Eugene gets depressed.
An interesting story with good character development.
The second story is set in South Africa in 1760 - 1762.
Jacobus Coetzee, a farmer, with his employees / servants, goes on an elephant hunting expedition into unexplored South African country.
He encounters native Bushmen and Hottentots.
An interesting story about the first bloody encounters between white men and natives in South Africa.
Two separate stories of two tragic events. The first tells the story of an American soldier who, having returned from fighting in Vietnam, loses his grip on reality and commits a violent act. In the second, the diaries of Coetzee's fictional ancestors tell the story of a group of white Afrikaners, and their interactions with the indigenous Namaqua. Written in radically different styles, the exploration of identity and violence is interesting, as is Coetzee's ability to embody completely different narrators.
Tried to read Waiting for the Barbarians a year ago, but could not get into it. Figured I should start at the beginning, and I couldn't put this down. If the two stories had been in a different order, with the second story placed first, I might have struggled to get into this, as well. It was the slow and strange beginning to the first story, arguably the more psychological of the two, that convinced me of the strength of Coetzee's well-crafted and understated prose.
