https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7907.Heaven_to_Betsy
In fact, since Tacy isn't boy crazy she ends up on the periphery of pretty much all the goings on of freshman year.
And in turn, I ended up resenting every other girl introduced in this book.
There are lots of kissings on the cheek.Betsy screws up a lot and cries a little.
Man oh man, I know I'm giving it a three because I resented the Tacylessness, but I was super into it, clearly, and hope the quiet rift between Betsy and Tacy is addressed (sometimes best friends fight, yo) in a later book.
The Betsy-Tacy series was one of my 'comfort read' mainstays when I was growing up, but it has been many years since I had last read the older high school books.
Over the next six weeks, I plan on rereading the last six books of the series: starting with this chronicle of Betsy's freshman year in high school and concluding with Betsy's Wedding.
Part of the appeal of Lovelace's beloved books, based so closely on her own life, is that they give the reader a cosy, insider's glimpse into the world of turn-of-the-century small town Minnesota.
Betsy and Tacy enter the wider world of the Deep Valley High School, the "Crowd," sings around Julia's piano, fudge, Heinz's .
It's Betsy Ray's freshman year at Deep Valley High School, and she and her best childhood chum, Tacy Kelly, are loving every minute.
Can Betsy turn him into a beau?An entertaining picture of school clubs, fudge parties, sings around the piano, and Sunday-night suppers in Betsy's hospitable home.The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
I was also far more willing to be interested in Betsy's new high school friends, especially Carney (originally, I agreed with Betsy's first assessment of her as "a stick"), having gotten to know and really like her in one of those later books, Carney's House Party.I still dislike the illustrations as much as ever, and tried not to look at them.A note on the edition: I was surprised and a little saddened to find that the copy of the book I read this time around (an older one, a 28th printing of the original hardback) is the only one the Queens library system owns (and this is the library with the largest circulation numbers in the country, I've been told).
Then I remembered that we were introduced to Joe Willard in this book, so I said "screw it" and lobbed on another star.
It gets a bit exhausting to read pages and pages of how Maud Hart Lovelace based every single thing that happened in the Betsy books on aspects of her own life, which is something I am treated to every single time I finish one of these books.
Secondly, the characters are vivid and rich and so much better than they were in the earlier books, although I suppose you should expect that if they're based on real people.
I did not notice the artfulness when I was a child reading these books, I only knew I loved them.
12/2009 Is it monotonous to start all my BT reviews with "I love this book"?
Well, too bad, I LOVE this book.
It's extremely well-written, but that's not why I love it.
I don't think I even noticed it was made of words till I was out of my own teens.
Her first love is not smooth.
She learns a great deal about being true to herself, though, as we will see in the next few books, not nearly enough.
I liked this book about Betsy's freshman year in high school.
At that time, it was considered an innocent parlor game, but I think much of the time people aren't aware that something popular and seemingly "innocent" actually can be quite dangerous.
However, I think this is a good way to introduce this topic to your girl and discuss choices we make.
Betsy learned a hard lesson that year, which all of us that love Maud Hart Lovelace can be thankful for.
I plan to have my daughter wait until she is 12 to read this book due to the boy interest.
When I can't find anything to read, I often pick up this series and read it again.
I always feel the same delight I felt when I read these books as a girl.
They were published in the 1940's, the setting is the 1900's, and they are quite dated now.My favorites are the first three books, the childhood books.
This is the first of the High School books, which are longer and at a higher reading level.
When I first read these books, I seriously thought High School was like this, and was sad when I got to real High School and discovered that it wasn't at all.
BETSY RAY IS A FLIRT AND I LIKE IT.
I don't think I had actually read this one before and I learned this one was kept outta libraries because Betsy and Julia converting from Baptist to Episcopalian was considered CONTROVERSIAL.
Lovelace did a tremendous job in transitioning the books from Betsy's childhood years to her high school ones. Also, as I amor Tony, I have to recommend the book since it is when he is introduced.
Re-read 1/08 (well, I've re-read this book TONS of times, but now I'm going to start keeping track here, I think).Re-read 4/11.Re-read 7/12.Re-read 9/13.Re-read 10/16.
Betsy’s growing up and paying attention to boys! Loved that.
I have a memory of reading this and Betsy in Spite of Herself when I was young (the only two in this series I knew about and read) and I never re-read them or searched out other companion books so I’m thinking I only liked them at best, and at worst thought they were just okay, and didn’t really like or love them.
It took a while to grow on me, but by the end I loved it.What, in the earlier 4 books were charming slice of life episodes in the lives of 5-12 year old friends, the happenings here seemed more pedestrian when the events were about 14-17 year old high school students who care at least as much about boys as about girlfriends, and in Betsy’s case, her storytelling/writing.
Now that Betsy, Tacy and the group are in high school, their lives require a more refined illustration style.
Betsy's family moves from Hill Street to High Street, putting distance between her and Tacy.
And Tib's family moves back to Milwaukee before the book's beginning, so we never got to catch up with our somewhat blunt pixie-ish friend.With her dearest childhood friends relegated to the sidelines, Betsy's attention shifts to boys.
Lovelace does a great job of depicting the pain and relational angst connected with budding high school romance.
As Betsy and Tacy get older, the books age in tone and style as well.
I discovered the Betsy-Tacy books when I was high school, so I never read the younger books - I just stuck with the older ones, which follow Betsy through high school into her world travels and then marriage.Betsy Ray and Tacy Kelly met at Betsy's 5th birthday party and have been best friends ever since.
Over Betsy and Tacy's progress through high school, you can follow their corresponding change in fashion from sailor suits to full-skirted ball dresses to slinkier sheath dresses.
If the only things I knew about high school came from the Betsy-Tacy books, I would want to go.
I liked Betsy better when she was younger and having different kinds of adventures. Plus Tib has moved and Tacy isn't around much. Years ago when I stopped reading these books to my little girls I thought it was because Betsy was in high school and my girls were so young, but maybe I was just bored with Betsy. I'm curious to see what I will think of the 6th book.
she only had sons.i've read almost all of the books in the series but i really only care about the one's that cover betsy's high school years.
these books are amazing because they were written in the 30s and 40s about a girl in the 1910s, yet the family was pretty progressive.
especially that cute brainiac guy who doesn't talk to girls." "am i successfully meeting my own goals?
...like being a world famous writer." one of the things that amazed me was that betsy's family was very progressive: i also love all the stuff about pompadours and shirtwaists.
Tib has moved to Milwaukee and Betsy and her family have moved into a new home away from Tacy and her family.
Betsy and Tacy are now freshmen in highschool and experiencing so many changes and heartaches in this book.
I prefer the first four books when Betsy, Tacy and Tib are girls together and Betsy and Tacy live across the street from each other.
I also adore Julia and Betsy's relationship and Julia, Betsy and their mother's relationship and how they all gather together to discuss all the social events afterwards right before bedtime.
As charmed as I am by the books about her childhood, her high school years are my #1 favorite comfort reading.
Her life amongst "The Crowd" will either remind you of your own high school hi-jinks, or it'll become the teen years you wish you had.
Part of this is certainly because the story is based so closely on Maud's diaries from the time, so her life-based Crowd is going to trend more realistic than a set of characters that are completely made up.
I love, love, love this series and have since I was little.
I bought all the Betsy books when I found out I was pregnant just so my little girl would be able to easily read them too.
I know, that may have been a bit early, but I adore these books so much that I just couldn't wait.
Plus it gave me the chance to re-read them.
I love these books because Lovelace captures the emotions, anxieties, and dreams of a young girl so very well, and the turn of the century setting is a very comforting, charming world to read about.
in which betsy begins high school! i was a little dubious about making the transition to teen fiction with maud hart lovelace, but i needn't have worried. i just loved this installment, and lovelace is spot-on in her descriptions of homesickness, the excitement of new friends, and what it feels like when the boy who used to like you likes another girl. (that cad!) "heaven to betsy" makes me want to put my hair up in a pompadour and sing around the piano.
I know there's much more to say than this, but this was my first foray into the older Betsy books -- I read Betsy-Tacy when I was little, but not with the deep affection that many others did -- and my overwhelming impulse was to live-blog it. I don't think I loved it as much as I would have if I'd read it over and over when I was younger, as I did with Gene Stratton Porter's books, but I kept cracking up and wishing I had somebody next to me on the train to read parts out loud to.
I believe I may have read the first couple as a kid, but definitely not the later ones. Although enthusiasts recommended I read them all, I decided this one seemed like an interesting place to drop in (as I got a new edition with this and the next book bound together). Enjoyable, but I'm trying to understand the obsession. I'm guessing it is a combination of true charm (I can see that) and nostalgia?
Finally! I'd read all the other books in the Betsy-Tacy series, but this one eluded me until now. (Thanks Busan English Library!) I'd forgotten how much fun Betsy and her family were. Pretty sprightly bunch. If you're in a crap mood, these books will take you right out of it.
This is the tome I recommend to adults when I am introducing them to BT. I made the mistake of starting my husband with the very first book and he got really bored. Heaven to Betsy is a great introduction to "The Crowd" and just a really enjoyable read!
Please tell me that Tib comes back.
Totally adorable and fun. I wish I could send all my rivals packing off to Paris.
I love all these books. Just read this one aloud to my husband and he laughed and laughed...maybe because Betsy and I are so alike. I'd forgotten how funny it is until I heard him cracking up.
Loved the book. First of the Betsy-Tacy books that I have read and now can not wait to read the others. Thanks Betsy for sending me the book and getting me hooked on the series!
