https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71863.A_Killing_Frost
First Read: March 10th 2010  Re-read: March 1st 2018  the third book in the tomorrow series The Third day, The Third Frost..
yes i know in america and canada they changed the book's title to 'A killing frost' i didn't see any reason why they did change it?
and no i will not spoil it, go read the series and you will understand what i mean!
I think this was originally meant to be the finale in a trilogy, I am so glad that there are more books in this series.
The Tomorrow series follows a group of Australian teenagers and their efforts in fighting an invading army that has taken control of Australia.
I love how raw and brutal this series is.
Everything is portrayed in a realistic manner and that is what makes these books so believable and kind of frightening.
The focus on the Australian outback lifestyle and landscape are part of what really makes these book unique and add so much to the story.
The journey to Cobbler's Bay brings an unexpected reunion, and a fairly spectacular plan.
While there have been injuries and casualties in the past, it was the end of this book in particular that has stuck with me for 17 years.
It demonstrates that war can be weeks of mind-numbing boredom followed by bursts of more fear and nerves and explosiveness than one person should have to cope with.
It's a powerful story, bringing change to the characters faster and more dramatically than in the previous books.
I'm still grateful Marsden didn't end it with this book.
This is a far darker book than the first two in the series, although none of them are a real picnic, this is the one where everything that has happened since the invasion really hits home - they all struggle with different psychological issues, and all their problems feel very realistic.The characters also continue to examine their personal relationships, and especially Ellie is very honest about how she actually feels about being in a relationship formed during wartime.
oh my god.
This review contains unavoidable spoilers for the first and second books in The Tomorrow Series but minimal spoilers on A Killing Frost so read at your discretion.
The group decides that they’ve been flying under the radar long enough and it’s time to really take a stand, to make an undeniable impact on the enemy forces......by blowing up a container ship and optimistically half of the harbor of the strategically placed and enemy controlled Cobbler’s Bay shipping port.Piece of cake right?Let's just say that merely googling my Ellie Survival Skill Lesson choice for this book would put me on a federal watch list.
They know their freedom will only last so long and they are determined to fight for their country.On a scouting trip to see if they can do anything about Cobbler’s Bay, a major port in the invasion, they discover Kevin in a work party and set to liberating him.
Robyn ends up not flinching or hesitating when it comes to violence and sacrifice and Ellie kills in cold blood, mechanically, like killing a sheep.I don’t find that it has the same emotional impact as the first book because by now our teen heroes are old hands at war and working together to murder soldiers who would rape or kill them (yes, another reference is made to soldiers wanting to rape Fi, isn’t it disgusting?).
Suffice it to say, I grew to love each of these characters so freaking much since book 1, that I think the only reason I didn’t cry when a major character died was because I was too numb.
How going through trauma with others both binds you together and breaks you.I haven’t mentioned characters too specifically yet in my reviews, but I feel the need to mention Robyn.
As a Christian, I’m often embarrassed by how “Christian” characters are portrayed in literature.
I love how honestly both Ellie and Robyn are depicted, even with their conflicting views, and how they both question and struggle to maintain their beliefs in such an unforgiving environment.
I had read the plot summaries for all of the Tomorrow Series books and knew which characters would die.
Even though I knew the characters that would die, I didn't know how or when.
When I read the part where Robin dies...I was crushed.
Knowing she would die versus reading how she died, and actually reading that part brought me to tears.
I hated Captain Harvey so much, especially after how he treated Ellie and Homer.
Although Robin died, at least she took Harvey with her.
I also love the narrator for this series.
3rd book of Tomorrow series.This is Cobbler’s bay book. Reading this book is like seeing a good action movie: you will see how a group of teenagers go to attack a strategic harbour. Somethings go well, and somethings go wrong, one of them terribly wrong.I think the author tries to tell us that we don’t have to forget that this is war, and war is ugly. I like this, though I wish the group would always win. The end is a little too far-fetched, but the group deserves a reprieve.
Not only did they blow up the ship (...and take out a helicopter that was attempting to shoot them out of the water, when they were seen escaping from the scene of the crime) but they also managed to destroy a good portion of Cobbler's Bay and the surrounding area thanks to misjudging just how ENORMOUS the explosion was going to be.
Robyn's death/suicide at the end of this book (turning herself into a suicide bomber with the help of several grenades she had stolen from the body of a soldier who'd been killed when the prison our heroes were staying at was partially blown up by Kiwi aerial raids, thus letting our heroes escape) was something that as a kid I never saw coming, and as an adult I dreaded re-reading about.
It took me some time to get through this story because I stopped at 33% done and had to wait to get it back from the library.
Re-reading the first part over was necessary because I wanted to make sure I hadn't missed anything.
I was amazed at some of the things this group of kids have done.
Amazed at how lucky they were not to get caught and some of the ideas they came up with.
I wonder, as I read, how it would be today.
The major event in the story was incredible to read and the aftermath appalling.
Oh yeah, I was quickly reminded why I love this series. It really grips me and the pages turn super fast. It retains the serious YA tone of the previous ones and the emotional parts are pretty hard-hitting. Actions with both tangible and moral/emotional consequences are what make this stand out from many other teen "adventures". The story is still sort of plausible, maybe a bit less so than in the previous ones, but I think the balance between overly lucky and overly unlucky situations is managed OK.
I can accept that people from another country could try and colonise Australia, because Australia'd been a bastard to them and because they needed more room to live in, but then to keep the Australian population living virtually as slaves to do menial labour around the place?
Western countries don't exactly have the greatest record when it comes to stepping in and doing something when bad things are happening in the world, unless of course there's some other motive driving them.And, really, this is just some moderately-crappy YA fiction: it's not supposed to be realistic.
The third book hits the ground running and has the group continuing the war against the invasion, the biggest positive in the storytelling is the change in formula.
Harvey the bigot traitor from the last book makes a return, much to the shock of Elle and her group who believed him to be dead.
They bombed the house believing to kill Harvey but ended up accomplishing something bigger, the death of a high ranking general.
The group are soon caught by the enemy on the way to a holiday away from death and destruction from the previous stories.
Am Anfang ist die Erzählweise ein wenig schwerfällig. Die Clique ist nach den Geschehnissen aus den ersten beiden Teilen kaputt, aber mit neuen Plänen kommt das Leben in die Gruppe zurück.Die zweite Hälfte ist dadurch wesentlich spannender. Aber gerade dadurch, dass die Freunde nicht ununterbrochen irgendwelche Sachen in die Luft sprengen und auch mal psychisch an ihren Taten zu knabbern haben, sind die Bücher so authentisch.Ganz schlimm fand ich aber das Ende. Auch nach 1000 maligen lesen, treibt es mir immer noch Tränen in die Augen...
This series is so good!
Just getting the series one by one as I go along.
Makes it more suspenseful that way.
:POMG!
OHHHHHHH LORDY LORDY LORDY.Phew.
This one was intense.
I don't even know what to say other than that.
Read this series.
I'm speechless.
My heart!
I feel so downcast, this book was all over the place.
When I say that, I mean that in a good way.
Off I go to order the next book in the series.
I HAVE TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS NEXT!!!* Will not be reviewed on the blog, at least not yet.
Read all my reviews on http://urlphantomhive.booklikes.com It's been years since I read the Tomorrow series, but A Killing Frost is the book that stayed with me the most as it sort of broke my heart. Their plans are getting bolder and more thrilling, but they will also find out that these things are not without consequences. As a kid I liked this series a lot. I would like to re-read them sometime to see if they can stand the time.
I'd forgotten the sad part of the ending, so I'm crying over that. But the relief part of the ending - that was, well, a relief!This series is so much better than I remembered it from high school - all the detail, the complexity, the moral dilemmas, and the amazing characters. It really paints such a vivid picture of what these experiences were like for Ellie and her friends. I love it.
I wasn’t expecting this book to get even better. Its heart pumping action as the teenagers pushes themselves to the limits in mind, body and soul when they take on a bigger target and hit enemy line where it hurts the most. It’s a ripper of a book and it actually feels like a war zone.
I've been sucked in and it's getting better. This one had no awkward sex scenes, were packed with action and once again I couldn't stop reading. It's easy reading and YA, but I'd recommend it for dystopian fans. Also, the proofreading is much better!
4.5★Definitely the best in the series so far
This is a series I enjoy.
It’s an easy read and not difficult to digest.
This book, out of the series, is probably my second favourite.
Many people feel that it has a ‘series ending’ feel to it and I don’t think that’s the case.
I think it sets up well for another book (or 4).
It follows the same trope as all the others.
Depressing start or follow on from previous book.
That’s just how these books seem to go.
It’s an easy read and it’s relatively fun, if not predictable.
Was geinig beter dan de vorige
After reading so many fantasy YA and Middle-Grade it's almost jarring to read this series. It's so saaaad ahhhhh
Not my thing...I give it 1 star
Despite being less than half way through the series, this feels like the climax of the story in many ways and it is indisputably a major turning point for the characters and plot.
It's my favourite in the series because I don't think Marsden betters the action sequences, tension and character development in any of the other books.
(hide spoiler)]Here's my review of the series as a whole....When The Wire first came out, it was hailed as the greatest TV show ever, because the writers decided to structure it like a novel, with a slow development of character and plot.
The Tomorrow series is the opposite - it's literature which feels like a great TV show.
Goodreads I missed you so!!!!!!!!!!Alrighty A Killing Frost, which I mistakenly referred to as "A touch of Frost" which is something completely different. I loved the first two installments of this series, so I was surprised when I start the third one and its just not doing it for me, like at all.Ellie and the gang are still trying to take down the invading army with little to no outside information, they are tired and hungry and getting on each others nerves. You know who is getting on my nerv
I loved the first two installments of this series, so I was surprised when I start the third one and its just not doing it for me, like at all.Ellie and the gang are still trying to take down the invading army with little to no outside information, they are tired and hungry and getting on each others nerves.
Yes we know you are great and super woman and whatever…Anyway this story kind of felt like filler and I was not impressed.Also I am sure this has nothing to do with anything but in between the The Dead of Night and A Killing Frost I watched the movie version of the first book and the chick who plays Fi is also Hayley on The Vampire Diaries 
"Lo único que podía hacer ahora era sobrevivir al instante siguiente, al minuto siguiente"  Wow. Wow. Wow.Los dos libros anteriores los leí a principio del año pasado, pero no me había animado a leer este porque los que siguen todavía no están traducidos (aunque, tal vez los lea en inglés) y sentí que extrañaba a los personajes cuando lo comencé. Eso es algo muy bueno de la saga, les tomas mucho cariño a cada uno de los personajes que cuando volves a ellos sentís esa sensación de "estar en cas
Wow.Los dos libros anteriores los leí a principio del año pasado, pero no me había animado a leer este porque los que siguen todavía no están traducidos (aunque, tal vez los lea en inglés) y sentí que extrañaba a los personajes cuando lo comencé.
Eso es algo muy bueno de la saga, les tomas mucho cariño a cada uno de los personajes que cuando volves a ellos sentís esa sensación de "estar en casa".Sí tengo que decir que la primera parte me gustó hasta ahí.
I am addicted to the Tomorrow series.I berated myself for having those books on my kindle and not starting them until 2 days ago.
Well, I suppose I did, in my head.These books have been around for long I guess, but last year I saw the movie of the first book, Tomorrow, When the War Began and got intrigued.
I got my hands on the entire series and waited for the mood to strike for some guerilla action!I have gotten tired lately of some ya reads with the everything-goes-as-planned action and the insta-fighting skills or the I-am-smart-enough-to-survive-and-have-other-people-protect-me concept.
Once again, Ellie navigates us through guerilla mentality, group mentality, survivor's mentality, teenager's mentality, the challenges, the changes...
