https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42909.All_Things_Wise_and_Wonderful
I was not thrilled with the start of All Things Wise and Wonderful, because from the get-go we learn that James Herriot is going to be writing about his wartime experiences.
The vet stories are told as flashbacks, which takes some of the steam out of them, while the RAF stories never really get off the ground.Just the same, if you've read and enjoyed Herriot's work up to this point, don't let my complainy-pants squawking deter you from diving headlong into All Things Wise and Wonderful.
While I was reading (or should I say rereading) All Things Wise and Wonderful (James Herriot's third veterinarian memoir omnibus, containing Vets Might Fly and Vet in a Spin), I realised that although it presents the author's wartime experiences training to become a pilot in the RAF (Royal Air Force), the frame narrrative of the author's RAF sessions and experiences, interspersed with and by remembrances of animals both great and small, of cases seen and treated both successfully and unsuccessfully, with both joyful and sometimes sadly tragic outcomes, really does not focus much on the actual horrors of WWII, on Nazi atrocities, on the bombing of England, but generally and primarily on the specific training sessions, on the author's personal experiences trying to learn how to become a pilot (and how, after his training is complete, an old medical issue arrises and proverbially clips James Herriot's wings).
With no real knowledge of Herriot outside of his professional accomplishments, I read his first book casually; cute stories about a budding British veterinarian and his furry, lovable patients in 1930’s farmland.
Well, as is true for many things in life, Herriot’s stories actually run deeper than the superficiality of a cute cover and the sunny image of a loving, passionate veterinarian portrayed in his books.
It seems that these animals were not only his professional passion, but a major source of solace for a frequently troubled soul.As a social worker by profession, and an individual who struggles with depression myself, I can attest to the healing power of our four-legged companions.
"James Herriot" (James Alfred Wight) continues his story as war encompasses his world and the things he loves become distant. I love the Herriot books and have worn out several copies of them. I recommend that you try... to start at the first, the beginning of the story and follow it through. The only draw back is it can put a longing in your heart that may never quite be fully met.
An excellent continuance of Herriot's life as a Yorkshire vet. His stories are warm and wonderful and some are very sad. If the story of the town mischief maker and his dog didn't put a lump in your throat you have to be made of stone. I would have given this 4.5 stars if I could. Highly recommended.
In the course of my successive re-reads of James Herriot's books as a child, I would routinely skip this one, which I thought of as "the sad one." It is sad.
He talks about homesickness, about missing his wife and worrying about the birth of their first child, and about being lonely and scared.
Some of the anecdotes told in this book are the most affecting of all of his stories.
There are many tearjerkers: some for very sad stories, but many for heartbreakingly joyous ones, told amongst desperate situations.
It's a wonderful, stirring book, and shouldn't be missed.
I just adore these books. I can't help it. Herriot may not be the most polished author but his books have a sense of warmth around them and I feel like I know Helen, Tristan, Siegfried and James. I love that they are real people and wish I could go and visit them, they just seem so lovely. Tristan's antics in this book are hysterical and James' reaction to becoming a new father priceless. I love it. Love. I'm going to wait to read the fourth for a little because I'm sad it's the last one...
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I bought this author's books for my daughter when she was young as she liked his stories. I enjoyed them as much as she did.
Herriot, originally a big city man, takes the warning seriously, but doesn't really realize how countrified he's become until he actually finds himself in London, taking those big steps and little 'uns in a cold, acidic fog.Any man who dedicates a book (as this one is) to his dogs must have found it a great wrench to have to leave his dog behind when he departed to his training.
And when Herriot gets sent to Scarborborough, he finds himself put up in one of the old grand hotels (it's actually called the Grand in the book, but I don't know if that was its real name), in an area near his home and with a much more congenial climate than the London he describes.

Wow. This was well-written. The dialogue and new characters added to the story. These three books have given me a nw appreciation for his legacy. I liked how he did not focus too much on the war. In summary, I would give this book five hooves out of five.
As enchanting as ever. Our favourite vet joins the RAF but does very little fighting - his recollections of his time in the army are very funny and his vet cases as memorable as ever. Gorgeously cosy prose.
Re-read as audiobook.
1/1/18 On sale for Kindle for $1.99.
Many a heart-warming anecdote told by our favorite Yorkshire vet.
It was great to settle in with an old friend. I read this series over & over in my childhood years, up through high school. James Herriot is why I wanted to be a vet--until I came up against chemistry, that is! I LOVELOVELOVE this entire series. His warmth, intuitive descriptions of his animal patients and their humans, and genuine delight of life are a wonderful gift to the world. I'm reviewing all the books in this series the same way, so you only have to read this review once! ; )
I love the little stories throughout these books. Herriot has a great way of storytelling making what would seem a regular event quite funny. I never thought I would enjoy these books as much as I do.
Herriot's writing was lovely and charming and somehow managed to make veterinary surgery interesting to me. This book made me want to curl with a cup of tea and a dog on my lap and eat pasties and scones and other English foods.
I really, really, really liked this book! I love animals, so this book was absolutely perfect for me. Some of the stories were super sad, while some were hilarious! I told Lydia some of the funny ones, and she just stared at me oddly while I rolled on the floor laughing hysterically.
Wonderfully warm narrative. This was like a cozy blanket. I loved it!
Some incredibly funny moments, and some quite moving too. James Herriot's books are always the best read. A human being I would have loved to have met!
As always, these stories just warm my heart. Will never stop loving these books!
I enjoyed reading about James' forays in the air force, even though he didn't get very far. I love the stories he tells, especially when he went to help the farmer. Brilliant!
This book is a little different from the two previous as each chapter starts with a short anecdote about life in the Royal Air Force.
These are used as starting points for the usual animal stories.
I took a longer time to read this as I usually just read it before bed, it’s the book equivalent for me to watching a nature show before going to sleep, it’s just sort of peaceful.
Just like the previous two books, some of the stories were very poignant and sentimental, but there’s almost always a vein of humor throughout and I love the keen observations of both the animals and people.
Overall just a wonderful book.
More great stories!
There was a lot more "life" in this one and less focus on animals, so it wasn't as good as the others, but it was still wonderful.
Many of the dog stories were my favourites again.
I laughed out loud many times, and quite a few of these scenes involved Siegfried - his arguing with James is one of my favourite things in these books.I am so excited to enter this profession, and these books fuel that passion so much.
There are a lot of hard things to conquer, but I'm still looking forward to it."Why had I entered this profession?
My father has all of the James Herriot books. My mother bought them for him as a wedding present, I believe, in the 1990s. After staring at them since childhood, in 2015-2016 I cracked one open and I never looked back. These books are not just a look at a quaint town with a local vet, it's a look at life, and it's hopeful. That's something we need right now.
I thoroughly enjoyed the 3 books in this series. Herriot is a fantastic story teller; he shares his tales of treating cows, horses, pigs, cats and dogs and each story sheds wisdom on the nature of people, animals, and the interaction between them. I will look at animals with deeper insights after reading these tales, with a greater understanding of their natures.
I loved the other books, but since this one went more into the military service, I didn't care for it as much. Still interesting, for sure, but now I'll fear my dentist even more!
He talks to you as an equal and as an old, familiar friend, and once again you get to enjoy the entertaining company of Siegfried and Tristan, and be welcomed with a warm hug by and sat down to share cake and laughter with the lovely Helen.One of my favorite stories is that of the gentle, retired farmer, Mr. Potts, who loved the chance to talk shop with Herriot while his older dog, Nip, played with Herriot's young basset hound.
381) Herriot realized it was hard for Mr. Potts to be retired, out of the business he had been part of his whole life yet still loved and understood and wanted to share.
