https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7133793-illyrian-spring
In Venice she meets a disillusioned young man, Nicholas, a man on the verge of being coerced into an architectural career by his parents but desperately yearning to paint.
By chance, Grace and Nicholas find themselves on the same cruise to the Dalmatian Coast.
Grace is persuaded to guide and train Nicholas in his artistic endeavours and together they spend several idyllic weeks together painting and enjoying each other’s company.
However, when young Nicholas falls in love with Grace, she finds she must choose between following her better judgement or her heart.
Green edition or not though – I really wanted to read it, and so was delighted to learn recently of a new edition being published by Daunt books.
The Europe, through which Grace travels, is a different place – geographically from the Europe of today – but Ann Bridge’s descriptions of the landscape are breath-taking.
However Ann Bridge’s amazing sense of place allowed me to encounter the landscape of 1930’s Europe, with its colourful peasant peoples herding goats through ancient ruins, works of art, small unspoilt communities untouched by the modern world.
This was a delight to read. It was especially pleasurable coming on the heels of Joyce Carey's much less happy and well-adjusted painter. Two normal, fairly happy artists; I think I prefer this vision of art.The plot, of course, is ridiculous, but it doesn't matter and it's not the point. The point is something about happiness and freedom and self-confidence (not to be confused with the damaging pride). It's also one of those great books about something that doesn't happen instead of something that does. All in all, a terrific way to spend the last little bits of vacation.
It was all so lovely and promising (at one point it seemed like there might be a flower-filled-field kiss, a la A Room with a View) but then all the coincidences at the end piled up and got a little too convenient and cliched :( Does make me want to go to Croatia, though!
to find
Now this subjection was tiresome and fatiguing enough while it was subjection to one person only, the husband, but for Lady Kilmichael's generation it had suddenly become subjection to their children as well, and when it reached that stage it became insupportable."So our heroine makes her way to Venice and thence to the Dalmatian coast (Croatia) (the Virago edition has a helpful map at the front showing the places, many of which have changed since the book was published.) While painting, wandering round ancient buildings and taking in the beautiful scenery she meets up with a young man, Nicholas, deeply unhappy at his father's insistence that he abandon his beloved painting for a 'proper' career in architecture.
Lady K leaves husband and child because she feels unwanted and useless - oh, and all those servants too, you have to overlook that - and yet she is a famous painter in her own right.She flees to the Dalmatian coast -like you do - where she meets a young man, her own class of course, and he is grumpy and wants to paint and you can guess the rest - as she is still lovely in her forties.
of course.The travel writing is sublime, luscious, read it just for that.
A novel about a female painter who feels trapped in an unsatisfactory marriage and takes time out from it in Illyria.
On the way she meets a much younger man and most of the novel is about their evolving relationship and how it leads the painter to discover a lot about herself.
This is a delightful book, full of emotional insight.
I have given it four rather than five stars because, particularly in the first half, there is rather too much loving description of places for my taste - a few pages read more like a travel book than a novel.
When I read fiction, it's normally of the romance or sword & sorcery varieties, so when a friend recommended I try this, I was a bit dubious.
A middle-aged coming-of-age story / fictional travelogue, really?
But, I decided to trust her and - oh, I'm so glad I did!
This is such a lovely book.The descriptions of Grace's travels are beautifully, crisply done and the characters themselves are all quite charming.
The perspective of the writer/narrator displays such grace, maturity, and unexpected humor that, as soon as I finished this book, I began to look for the next of hers to try.
An utterly charming book: the romance is threaded with strands of femimism, punctuated with gorgeous descriptions of Dalmatia, and capped with a comedy of errors. The story and prose reminded me of my time in college, when I read a lot of novels by British women writers. I only needed the green-bound Virago edition to complete the memory.
Though written in the 30's this novel still has lots of relevance. I enjoyed it for the insight it gave me into how far women have come...and how far we still have to go. Plus it's a lovely travel fantasy; nothing wrong with that!
An absolutely beautiful book that I thoroughly enjoyed. If you, like me, love books like Enchanted April you will love this.
She escapes to Europe where she encounters a kindred spirit Nicholas Humphries a young man who wants to become a painter while his family objects.
She already a well renown painter helps him gain confidence and independance and he in turn helps her.
The romance here is very chaste, rather like courtly love, a meeting of like minds or spirits.
Plus the book is very reflective and introspective, Lady Kilmichael uses the distance to diagnose where things went wrong in her family life.
Be warned that the most dramatic thing to happen in the book is food poisoning.
I first read this book about 50 years ago.
Loved it then and loved it even more this time around.
I was delighted to find it back on the bookshop shelves.
It is beautifully written.
I savoured every page.
However, I am now an armchair traveller and it's wonderful to escape into the long gone days of books by writers such as Ann Bridge, Elizabeth Bowen, Elizabeth Taylor, Rumer Godden, to name just a few.
Long may these books continue to be republished, there is one person sitting in her armchair here just waiting for a beautiful read.
An unexpectedly wonderful read. One of those stories that makes you feel nostalgic for a long-ago time. The love story is one thing but the description of the travels and the wonderful Croatian landscape took it to a whole other level.I'd be interested to see what other books by Ann Bridge are like to see if she manages to transport the reader in the same way.
Loved this. Recommended to me for a walking holiday in Montenegro and Croatia taking in Dubrovnik where a large portion of the action takes place. Lady Kilmichael is a sort of rich 1930s Shirley Valentine and is terribly elegant and endearing as she slowly comes back to believing in herself. The right book at the right time in more ways than one.
I was surprised and impressed by the depth and psychological complexity of this novel. The nature descriptions don't really do it for me but it is well-written and entertaining.
Beautiful.
from
I mean, on the one hand it's a complete fantasy - a mother, feeling unappreciated, goes off on a painting trip (oh yes, she's a successful painter too) without telling her family where she's going.
She feels stupid and unappreciated, and she doesn't have a life outside them except for painting, and this they have no understanding of whatsoever, and joke about.
I know what it's like to be so immersed in family life that the individual I am seems merely a ghost, thin and see-through, and yes, haunting.
Grace feels as if 'no one really needed her any more.' Her husband, Walter, reacts to her by telling her 'not to get worked up' and a typical attitude from her children is 'Buck up and finish the old picture, Mums darling - I want a new car.' I am sure there are plenty of middle-aged women today who can identify with that!There's plenty of humour in the story, in a social-observation Mitford-type style, even if some of this is very much of its time.
I have a weakness for what I still call 'women's books' -- what's now called 'chick lit' I think.
The 'chick lit' of the 20s and 30s down to the 50s, to be precise.
Not handkerchief wringers like Edna Ferber (usually), but the sophisticated ones like Anne Bridge and Margery Sharp for the Brits or Eleanor Mercein for the Yanks.
Before she went off on Cold War spy fiction in the Fifties, Anne Bridge wrote wonderful books of this kind, often replete with wonderful travel details.
I think this is the best.
I heard this serialised on the radio many years ago when I was a teenager, and I delighted in finding an old second-hand copy to read.
It is just as delightful as I remembered.An unusual and gentle platonic romance between an older, successful woman artist and a young man grappling with his artistic vocation against the wishes of his family.
They meet in Venice and move down the Croatian coast to Dubrovnik where the story ends happily but highly contravidely.
Illyrian Spring is not masterful literary fiction, but is superbly well constructed and written middle-brow fiction from the mid 1930s and has all the charm of the period set in a deliciously evoked Croatian spring.
This funny little book (or odd, as Bridge herself would have said), is dated in 1935 when lady Grace Kilmichael runs away from her husband and family to explore the Adriatic.
I rather enjoyed this book but had some trouble reading the lengthy descriptions of landscape, churches, works of art etc.
Grace Kilmichael is charming enough though.
Her insights in herself and young Nicholas, whom she meets along the way, are at the same time outrageous and wise.
This book makes you long for a holiday and for the 'good old times'.
And the letters Linnet Kilmichael writes to her friend are simply out of date .
A middle-aged English woman who is also a part-time artist, at odds with her family, escapes on a working vacation to draw and paint on the Dalmatia coast and befriends a young man who is also struggling with his life. The places, people and landscapes are so well described, it's like taking a vacation of your own, and the main characters's struggles with their life problems and relationships are realistically and sensitively portrayed. Charming, but also serious. Very much of its time (1935) in the solutions to the heroine's dilemmas.
Written in 1935, this is the story of a well-born English woman fleeing her unappreciative family who take her for granted and constantly belittle her. She takes off for Illyria (Dalmation Coast/Yugoslavia) to paint without telling anyone where she is going and where she has plenty of adventures. Lyrical descriptions of the coast. I must go see this area. I wonder if it's still as idyllic as she depicts it.
This is a lovely read. I read it whilst travelling around the coast near Dubrovnik where the majority of the story takes place. It is easy to imagine Lady K and Nicholas going about their painting amongst the beautiful scenery. Highly recommend!
Loved it. An inspirational exploration of how to deal with headstrong children while attempting to hold onto/discover yourself, camoflauged cleverly in alluring discriptions of places and settings. It made me want to take the very same trip and see what she saw.
good insight of psychological conundrums related to love.
A beautiful story...so many insightful and entirely still relevant views on human nature.
