https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17286747-necessary-lies
Fifteen-year-old Ivy Hart lives with her grandmother, her sister and her nephew on a small tobacco farm in rural Grace County, North Carolina.
With her sister's mental illness, her grandmother's aging, and her own medical condition of epilepsy she is having a hard time keeping it all together.Social worker Jane Forrester is new to Grace County and is just beginning to realize how much help is needed.
Subjects like poverty, social work, mental illness, welfare, and especially sterilization.The book flows so well and is told in alternating first person perspectives, between Ivy and Jane.
Chamberlain does an excellent job focusing in on one specific family and the impact this program has on their lives.The main character, Jane, follows her heart to become a social worker against her husbands wishes (and later demands) to be a housewife and baby maker.
She becomes the only hope for this family, and once again her own beliefs are at odds with those of her society and employer.Chamberlain shows through story, not only the horrors of our recent past, but also the hope we have when we choose to treat others fairly and equally.
Reading the beginning of this book and being reminded how little rights women had over their own bodies just 50 years ago got me totally riled up.But do all women have the right to have children?
The book works well when Jane is grappling with the slippery slope of whom to sterilize or when to remove a child.
And the rest of the social workers all think they know what’s best for their clients.
I’m reading this for my book club and it's going to make for a lively discussion.
Chamberlain acknowledges that while the characters of this novel are fictional, they are, incredibly, based on real cases; cases which were the norm in 1960 North Carolina.
The program targeted the “mentally defective” and the “feeble-minded” (people with a below 80 IQ score), inmates of mental institutions, epileptics and those who sterilization was considered a benefit to the public.
With an Aunt who is a Mental Health Advocate, I've heard both sides of the story but I remain undecided as to the ethics of sterilization.
*5+ stars*So good.....so good. This story held my heart.Set in the final years of Jim Crow and based on a true story, Necessary Lies is a story that everyone needs to read; a reminder of how far we've come and how much further we still need to go with regards to discrimination-prejudice- and its attendant disenfranching socio-economic effects. No aphorisms, just stark illustrations of how humanity degrades those who- unwittingly- are born to a specific race or gender. Likewise those born with mental or physical disability. Chamberlain writes with clarity and brilliance. Highly recommend.
What makes the difference for me between a 4 stars and a 5 stars book?Connecting with a story with both my brain and my heart. Heartbreaking but ultimately uplifting story. Just a wonderful read.
I recommend reading Diane Chamberlain's short story THE FIRST LIE as an introduction to the book, but it's not essential.
Ivy's former social worker wants her sterilized too, which takes Jane on an ethical odyssey.
If everyone thinks Ivy should be sterilized, could they all be wrong she she right?I was hooked from the short-story, and thrilled to get an ARC copy in advance of publication.
Diane Chamberlain is one of the rare authors who produces books every year that get better and better.
I'm going to reread this book, once I get some sleep, and I know the story--and Jane and Ivy will stay with me for a long, long time.
As in this book, many of those sterilized were minors who had the permanent operation without being made aware of what was happening.
I just can't wrap my mind around the justification of sterilizing a 15 year old which is what happened in this book.
Still now, after having finished the book and slept on it, I cannot get these characters out of my head.
I enjoy learning new things while reading and that was definitely the case with this book.
I highly recommend this book to any reader who enjoys women's fiction and/or anyone who wants to learn more about the Eugenics Sterilization Program.
But at the point in the story where we learn of the Eugenics Sterilization Program and the impact on these characters , it becomes a gut wrenching realization that this practice actually took place in this country .There are some pretty amazing characters in this book , all heroines in their own way : Mary Ellawho gives of herself to save her family , Ivy who sacrifices so much to escape a horrible fate , and Jane , the social worker whose courage is indisputable .
I will, for sure be reading more of Diane Chamberlain's books .
THE EUGENICS BACKGROUNDThe Hart family, (consisting of grandmother Nonnie and her two granddaughters, the two sisters Mary Ella and Ivy), was, according to Margaret Sanger (a eugenics advocate) those good-for-nothing people who were fostered at the expense of good human beings.
Theodore Roosevelt said that "Society has no business to permit degenerates to reproduce their kind."  Luther Burbank: "Stop permitting criminals and weaklings to reproduce." George Bernard Shaw said that "only eugenics could save mankind".It is the core doctrine behind this story in which poor people were destined for sterilization through the petitions of social workers, particularly in North Carolina.
Set in 1960's rural North Carolina, a shocking, but enlightening story surrounding the Eugenic's Sterilization Program, their unethical practices and the abuse of State authority. I was totally unfamiliar with the program thus surprised and disgusted with the procedures yet was totally enthralled by the author's presentation and well-developed characters.Another page-turning winner for Diane Chamberlain!
5++++ STARS!!!This novel stands out among many others!An important story!
A clear vision of what it might have felt like to live in 'this country' during a time when people were called 'feebleminded', and morons....and unwanted sterilization was mandated.
The Eugenics Sterilization Program was 'real' in our country.
-- Its a novel you can't shake after its over!"Necessary Lies" is 'necessary' to read!DO NOT let the 'cover' of the book --'fool' you into thinking ----"how, sweet, a story of two sweet white girls playing in the field".
This book is for men and woman!!!!
I really enjoy Diane Chamberlain books. This is my third read by this author. I love her writing style and how she puts all the characters together in a beautifully told story. I like it when I can understand what an author is trying to portray. There was a couple of characters that I wasn't too happy with while reading but the end result is what I wanted to see happen. Great story and a highly recommended must read.
If you can believe it....I found this book on the Bargain rack of my local bookstore!
I immediately recognized it as a book I had been wanting to read plus I just adore Diane Chamberlain's books.This was a complete winner and fully fledged 5 star read!
The story of two sisters living in poverty in rural North Carolina in 1960 and the social worker who comes to their aide.
It's a heartbreaking and distressing story and I certainly shed some tears especially near the end.
I enjoyed the ending very much.
It was perfect.Highly recommend this book.
Set amidst the tobacco fields in North Carolina in the 1960s, Necessary Lies is an engaging story that pits the passion of an inexperienced social worker against the rules and conventions of the Department of Public Welfare.
The story centers on Mrs. Jane Forrester, newly married to a chauvinistic pediatrician who despises her dream job as a welfare worker, and her struggles to serve her clients’ best interests.
Is it not ‘an act of kindness’ to save the poor and unfit from being a burden to themselves, their families and the state?Structurally, the novel takes the form of alternating narratives mostly that of Ivy and Jane.
It's hard to believe the happenings in this book took place in my lifetime. Granted it is a work of fiction but it is based on real-life happenings in the 1960s.  Set in rural Grace County, North Carolina in a time of state-mandated sterilizations and racial tension, Necessary Lies tells the story of these two young women, seemingly worlds apart, but both haunted by tragedy. Jane and Ivy are thrown together and must ask themselves: how can you know what you believe is right, when everyone is tel
Granted it is a work of fiction but it is based on real-life happenings in the 1960s.
Set in rural Grace County, North Carolina in a time of state-mandated sterilizations and racial tension, Necessary Lies tells the story of these two young women, seemingly worlds apart, but both haunted by tragedy.
Jane and Ivy are thrown together and must ask themselves: how can you know what you believe is right, when everyone is telling you it’s wrong?
"Are we going to make it?" I asked quietly."Not if you insist on putting the needs of other people ahead of your husband."
Her husband doesn't approve of her working and doesn't understand why she feels the need to work.Jane decides to take a job as a social worker and one of her first cases is the Hart family.
Ivy is fifteen years old and lives with her ailing grandmother Nonnie, her elder sister Mary Ella and her baby William.
Will Jane take drastic actions to help them or will she do what is required as part of her job which will have a devastating outcome for the Hart family.I thoroughly enjoyed this book as it was a very powerful read.
Diane Chamberlain chillingly captures the time when women must ask their husband's permission to have a job or take birth control--a time when Eugenics, the practice of sterilizing the "feeble-minded" aka known as poor, uneducated who couldn't score well on white-biased IQ testgs was far too easy.
Ivy is a 15 year old poor, white teen living on a tobacco farm with her grandmother, Nonnie, sister, Mary Ella and illegitimate 2 year-old nephew, Baby William.
This is Jane's first social work job and she is newly assigned to help the needy families in the area where Ivy lives.
3.5 I am appalled that with the large amount of books I have read, I had never heard of this eugenic program before.
A white family of sharecroppers on a tobacco farm in the south, and a newly married social worker are the two threads in this story.
Many of the woman entered into the eugenics program were not even told what was being done to them and I felt indignant and angry on their behalf.
Of course, anything to do with the mistreatment of children is very hard to read, and a child being pulled away from its mother is a horrible vision.This was a fast paced story and one that needed to be told.
My TBR shelf has grown since I have discovered Diane Chamberlain thanks to my sister.I love to read books that open my mind, makes me ask myself questions and want to find out more. This is what Diane Chamberlain has done for me with Neccessary Lies.
This a beautifully written moving novel set in the rural South, in Raleigh in Grace County, tells the story of two young women, Jane and Ivy, both faced by tragedy and obstacles in their path.
After losing her parents, fifteen-year-old Ivy Hart is left to care for her aging diabetic grandmother, seventeen year old mentally ill sister, Mary Ella and nephew, baby William as tenants on a small tobacco farm.
She must decide whether to take drastic action to help them, based on what she feels is morally right...or lose everything.The story is set in a time of state-mandated sterilizations and racial tension.

This was the first book I read by Diane Chamberlain, although I understand that she has written many books.
The genre of books I read are very diverse and this fit very nicely with my occasional taste for some of Jodi Picoult's better books or Kristin Hannah's more recent books.
Although the story's backdrop was the practice of eugenics in North Carolina, what worked particularly well for me was the depiction of Ivy and her family and environment -- the complexity of their circumstances made the book feel like a good story rather than just an issue book.
Extremely well written, informative 5-star historical fiction.I was so naive about the Eugenics Sterilization Program in the U.S., I had to Google it and found out some things even more shocking than what's revealed in this book.
The Nazi's eugenics programs were largely based on what America was doing to the blacks, the feeble-minded, and the poor.
These things happened in America?
In my state?
This was a real eye opener, well researched, and just an amazing read.
Thanks to all my friends who urged me to read this, to give her another chance.
Every word in this book just flowed, it was lovely to read.North Carolina, 1960 and Jane Forrester is a new social worker assigned to some clients who are suffering extreme poverty amongst the rural tobacco fields of Grace County.
Jane is new to the job and has possibly too big a heart according to others.The book shifts POV between Jane and a young fifteen year old girl, Ivy, who is one if Jane's clients.
The book highlights the Eugenics Sterilization Project, which was legal in North Carolina up until 1974.
I learnt something new via this novel.For more of my reviews, book talk and more, come visit me at: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat...
Set in rural Grace County, North Carolina in a time of state-mandated sterilizations and racial tension, International bestselling author, Diane Chamberlin delivers a powerful Southern Historical Fiction NECESSARY LIES.
One of my favorite authors,  having read all her books, master storyteller, Diane Chamberlain  takes us to the historic deep-south, a tobacco farm in North Carolina during the turbulent 1960s.
Exploring the history of NC Eugenics Sterilization Program, NECESSARY LIES —takes a riveting, compelling, and shocking look into the lives of poverty-stricken young girls and families with a little choice of escaping an unfair system.Ivy Hart, a 15-year-old teen girl with epilepsy, lives in a rundown shack on a tobacco farm, with her diabetic older grandmother, and her she mentally challenged beautiful 17-year-old sister, Mary Ellen, and her nephew William.
Living in North Carolina (actually very close to where this fictional story is set) the topic that Chamberlain tackles in "Necessary Lies" is one that continues to be in the news, and is a black mark on the history of this state.
Chamberlain tells the story of this disturbing practice through the eyes of Ivy Hart, a 15 year old rural girl with a hard life and dysfunctional family and Jane Forrester a young, newly married Social Worker who is ill equipped for the job she takes on.
North Carolina has set up compensation for the victims of this practice.
Wow! Another great story from Diane Chamberlain! I found it started out a little slowly but very quickly the story drew me in and by the end of it, I couldn’t put this book down. For the last fifteen pages I had goosebumps and smiled through my tears. This is my third or fourth book by this author and she always tells a unique story with such detail that she brings the characters to life. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Wow! Another great story from Diane Chamberlain! I found it started out a little slowly but very quickly the story drew me in and by the end of it, I couldn’t put this book down. For the last fifteen pages I had goosebumps and smiled through my tears. This is my third or fourth book by this author and she always tells a unique story with such detail that she brings the characters to life. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
You couldn't see [her] impoverished roots, or how close she'd come to having no family at all.
You couldn't see the loss .
The wounds were deep .
. ." Yes, the wounds ARE deep!
This story - a story steeped in ghastly truths surrounding eugenics during the nineteen-sixties in North Carolina - turned me every which way but loose; tearing my heart into incensed shreds, grieving my soul for the injustices and haughty judgments inflicted and passed upon those who had no voice and no choice.
FIVE ***** Heartrendingly Engrossing and Overwhelmingly Affecting, Truth-Based ***** STARS
I love the character, Jane Forrester.
She's so independent and passionate - determined to stand up for what she believes is right.
All the characters were well-developed.
It had that southern small town feeling.
The story covers many difficult issues, topics that are sad to read.
I find when I'm reading about how cruel humans being can often be, I need a happy outcome, and this book didn't disappoint.
I got my happy ending - and it didn't feel rushed, which is always a bonus.
'Necessary Lies' was my first experience with the author, and I must say I'll be checking out the rest of her books.
