https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60836.Necroscope_II
If you think what you've seen so far is unpleasant, what you're about to see is far worse! This is a longish review, because, frankly, it can hardly be anything but. As the very title of this novel suggests, this is where the Vampire theme of the Necroscope series starts coming into its own. The first novel dealt with many themes, but not so very prominently with the theme of the Vamphyri (or, rather, Wamphyri).The old Thing in the ground had lived for five hundred years, and as long again had
As the very title of this novel suggests, this is where the Vampire theme of the Necroscope series starts coming into its own.
If it sounds confusing, it’s because it potentially is, and letting a lot of time pass between novels just makes it worse.The Necroscope series aren’t just novels about Vampires, it deals with the very mythos of the Wamphyri.
The second book in the Necroscope Trilogy, this is a series that deserves a lot more attention then it gets (probably because they have some of the WORST COVERS I have ever seen).
The star of the series is Harry Keogh (the Necroscope) who has the power (among others) to speak to the dead.
This gift, which doesn't sound like much at first, allows Harry to "absorb" any talent or skill by interacting with deceased experts (e.g., he learned hand to hand combat from a dead Marine drill Sargent and quantum mechanics from Einstein).
In many ways, the Vampires are the star of the show as they are incredibly well developed in the first two books.
While I've read some reviews that lament this or that it's set in the world of Cold War espionage, I relish it.
I love that they explored the vampire history.
It sets up Lumley's parameters to his Necroscope mythos and is vital to the rest of the series.
As for complaining about it being set in the Cold War world of espionage, did you not read the first Necroscope?
That's the setting they used and how someone could be upset that the second book in the series is a continuation of the same is beyond me.
Vampires, the rising of the dead, espers, the mobius continuum, Yulian Bodescu, Harry Keogh, what more can you ask for in a book?I really enjoyed this book, much better than the first.
Harry Keogh is an awesome character, it is worth the read just to learn more about him.It took me a while to start reading this book after reading the first, because I wasn't sure if I would like it, as I had a hard time getting into the first one.
I am so glad I read it and am sure looking forward to the next one.
Now...Think of all the evil minds of the past...go back in time...Genghis Khan...Hitler ...now imagine being able to converse with them!
Think of the secrets that the dead take to their graves....now imagine that you can bring those secrets forth....how mind blowing is that!
I actually stood up and paced...I was hopping up and down on one leg to the other....I read it with my mouth hanging open...I had goosebumps running up and down my skin....and that wasn't enough...I then started to shake...physically shake from the stuff going through my mind....he did this NOT ONCE BUT THREE TIMES IN THE LAST PART OF THE BOOK!!
They are dated, but once you think of them as historical fiction and are able to overlook the politics and technology, they are well worth the read.
Lumley had a wonderful story here, and excellent characters, not to mention a mind-blowing plot line.
The books are a bit a slow to read, but only because they make you think and figure out what's going on.
Details, intrigue, tensions...this book is just as good as the first.
This is a horror book...not the shiny happy vampires of today's kids.
Lumley is a devotee of HP Lovecraft and you can tell in his style and his monsters.
I think I've become a huge Brian Lumley fan. Utterly devoured this one. Maybe not as great as the first book but hey, it's a middle book of a trilogy. Plunging right into The Source, book three!
Lumley created quite the villain with Yulian, a terrifying vampire that appears far stronger and more psychotic that any of Anne Rice's creations.
As I was reading the book, I often wondered how Lestat de Lioncourt would deal with the vampires of Lumley's world.
It didn't detract much from the story, but it was funny at times to read about these guys advancing on Harkley House armed to the teeth when they didn't appear to even be trained for field work or combat of any kind.One of Lumley's strengths is his willingness to kill off characters at a moment's notice.
There was promise in the first book, but this one was bogged down with backstory, slow pace and not a particularly engaging plot. There was very little suspense in the book and the 'horror' effect was mainly a gore effect. This felt like a transition book (Star Wars Episode I & II, anyone?), so perhaps there is still hope in the series.
brilliant.love how I can follow all the characters and their thoughts.
Lumley returns with Harry Keogh and his esper warriors in one of the most terrifying episodes of the Necroscope series. Thick with deaths a plenty, Whamphyri takes you back to where it all began...before Harry, before E-branch, before Boris Dragosani. The brilliance of this book is that it picks up from the last seconds of where Necroscope left off and doesn't fail to please. The horror is twice as gruesome, the double-talk is twice as deceitful, the action is twice as exciting. A sequel that outdoes its predecessor in both hook and intrigue. Don't miss it!
Rereading this series is like coming home to old friends. Not for the faint of heart, the Necroscope volumes are intense, scary, and extremely gory. In this second book, the KGB makes big moves against the British and a dirty fight begins in earnest with big consequences for all players involved, including the Wamphyri.
Wow, I didn't really believe book 2 could top book 1, but dang was I wrong.
Much like in book 1, the story has a slow drawl and then quickly picks up pace, especially toward the end with Vamphyri.
While there wasn't much vampire action in book 1, it had it in spades in book 2.
I was curious as to the fate of Harry--his story here was very gratifying (sorry, no spoilers).
The ending came with a bang--sad at times and satisfying at others.
What happened to Alec was heart wrenching and horrifying--i'm now eager to start book 3!
Still, it was interesting to see where Thibor had come from, what he was like, and how he had become a vampire.
It was also interesting to see the power play between Faethor and Thibor as both constantly try to come out on top.Easily, my favourite bit of the book was when Yulian Bodescu was on the page as we got to witness his coming into power and his depravity worsen as his vampiric nature took a hold of him more.
He still managed to have some major problems of his own though, which ended up leading to an amazing twist at the book's end.
The bizarre form of necromancy Harry has was as interesting as before, evolved even, so I again loved reading about those connections and experiences.I’m still not a political espionage fan, so again grew bored with a lot of that.
This book boasts great characters but nudges them aside to set up some semi-confusing stuff and dry areas I’m not as eager to dive in.To me this sequel branched out the story and filled us in, but rushes into complex changes and spends too much time on things I don’t care about.
So that's how the series will continue.Basically, we get a bit more of Harry who is now sharing bodies with his infant son (it's about that weird) and communicating with the now dead main characters from the first book.The world building continues to be one of the stronger parts of these books.
This time around, we have a fair chunk of the book from the view point of two of the old vampires (Thibor and Faethor Ferenczy), including a look at how they were turned and what they did over their centuries of life.
The first entry into the Necroscope series has it's slow moments, but had me glued to the pages and I read it in a few days.
It's like a movie that is kind of slow but you love it.
The first book was enough to spur me to purchase the first 5 books of the series from a used bookstore before I finished reading.Vamphyri is engrossing.
but I grew bored of the vampires because what started the series was great, then it just turned into trashy romance novels with sexy vampires.
and the stories have a history with great significance to the whole of the series.
This book had some really fantastic elements and I certainly don't regret reading it (atypical of my 3-star ratings), but it had enough problems that I couldn't bring myself to justify rating it any higher.**MILD SPOILERS AHEAD**Lumley strangely chose this book to give us Thibor's (Dragosani's vampire daddy) backstory, even though he died in the last book.
It felt downright strange reading about a character that quite honestly should have been fleshed out in the LAST book when he was relevant.
Also, much like the first book, Lumley manages to breathe life into some truly terrifying characters (vampire and human alike).
While his son sleeps Harry can use his mind to go into the Mobius Continuum.
1. A formidable vampire (Thibor Ferenczy)has created another (Yulian Bodescu) to kill Harry Jr. Harry contacts Thibor's maker, Faethor Ferenczy who is a spirit and learns the story of Thibor while trying to extract any important information from a manipulative vampire spirit.
He then contacts the ESP to get to Russian and destroy the remaining piece of Thibor while he helps kill Yulian and protect his son.
Yulian gets caught in the end and an ESP agent gets caught by Russian intelligence and gets his mind erased.
El asalto de guerreros tártaros muertos hace mucho tiempo al château Bronnitsy, con Harry Keogh comandándolo, ha dejado muchos cadáveres y la Organización E prácticamente descabezada.
El jefe de gobierno de la URSS llama a uno de los supervivientes, Felix Krakovitch, para que comience a reorganizar inmediatamente la organización y busque nuevos miembros.
En Gran Bretaña, la INTPES decide proteger al hijo recientemente nacido de Harry Keogh, del que hace tiempo que no saben nada.
Segundo libro de la serie Crónicas Necrománticas y que necesita de la lectura del primero para tener cierto sentido.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Very good series!
Imagine any knowledge that you needed at the ready for your asking.
Enter Harry.
Very well designed story, with a main character that is easily identified with, Harry Koegh.
The imagination that came up with these characters must have experienced some truly awful things.
Lumley, being an ex SAS officer, surely did.
The vampires in this series are not nice.
They are not warm and fuzzy.
Lumley is good at this, and the stories get more and more gripping as the series carries on.
We eventually even learn of the vampire's origins (The Source).
Always imaginative and truly entertaining.
This was a pretty good book. I liked it better than the first book. Its a different story-line with vampires, but it does keep to the traditions. I like and will continue reading the Harry Keogh series.
This is the continuation of Necroscope (duh). It was pretty good but the Mobius loop got a little tiresome. However, if you liked the first one, you'd likely enjoy this. This series gets much better with the next book!
The first one was better. This story didn't surprise me, many similarities with the previous book, the story was linear and already known. The reader doesn't guess. It's already given. Finally, the repetitions of the story of the first book were too many.
Somehow I didn't connect with this book in the same way I did the first. The overall plot didn't hold my interest, and the characters weren't distinct enough for me to keep straight. I liked the gore, and there were some moments of excitement, but overall a pretty tepid book.
It's a direct, spy-vampire-Lovecraft book, not much character here, but it's a GOOD one.
is written in a similar mould to the original Necroscope novel, in that there is extensive character exploration, then the chase, and finally an explosive finale.
The sequel is best enjoyed after having read the original Necroscope, which paves the way for events contained in this second chapter.
Wamphyri!
Wamphyri!
is a slow burner for the first 200 pages, which follows the historical adventures of the Wamphyri introduced in the first book.
After that, the plot shifts up a gear in to more modern times.
Plenty of new characters are introduced and Lumley works hard to produce a twisting tale, laden with suspense, intrigue and horror.
⭐⭐⭐💫 [3.5/5]•I love vampire lore and Lumley puts a twist on things, breathing new life into the genre.These books aren’t deep by any means. But they are FUN! Very action packed and filled with plot twists every step of the way. I am enjoying them for what they are. My biggest gripe, honestly, is the shoddy editing work in my editions! I mean SERIOUSLY - I almost wanted to take a red pen to it so I could count up how many spelling errors there were. Hopefully the three remaining books aren’t as b
⭐️⭐️⭐️💫 [3.5/5]•I love vampire lore and Lumley puts a twist on things, breathing new life into the genre.These books aren’t deep by any means.
But they are FUN!
Very action packed and filled with plot twists every step of the way.
I am enjoying them for what they are.
My biggest gripe, honestly, is the shoddy editing work in my editions!
I mean SERIOUSLY - I almost wanted to take a red pen to it so I could count up how many spelling errors there were.
Hopefully the three remaining books aren’t as bad, that’s really one thing that drives me crazy.
This was a decent continuation to its predecessor. This offering provides more backstory on the Vamphyri, and a new one too. The Russian-British ESP conflict also continues. I was hoping for more creative use of the Harry’s necroscope capability considering the collective deceased minds at his disposal, but maybe that happens in book 3 or 17.
I can not say that it was bad or good!Of course I read it, as it was a sequel, but I felt like it was a break from book 1 to 3. The story kind of stopped. I was expecting to read "what happened next", but, instead, the hero had to face other "problems". The storyline was breathtaking no matter what + scary and bloody as the first one.
