https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161887.East
I love how it shifts views and tells you what other people are doing and how it has many plots that all tie together in the book.
What Rose and the White Bear had was tender and fragile and real.
Most authors would have Rose run into the arms of the White Bear and they would live perfectly from that moment on.
She did an amazing job of showing the uncertainty that was felt between the two.All around I would recomend this book to anyone who loves a great adventure story.
For example, she uses phrases such as, "It was clear they really loved each other," without telling us what made it clear, which makes it sound like it actually wasn't all that clear at all.Her treatment of the white bear and the four winds was interesting, but I didn't really appreciate the latter until I read her own afterward (which, incidentally, was more interesting than the story itself).Even though it's only a two-star book, I find myself holding onto it because I'm rather proud of my collection of retold fairy tales.
The sequel to this 2005 folktale retelling, West, was just published this week (it's still waiting on my Kindle).East is a retelling of the Norwegian tale "East of the Sun and West of the Moon;" you can read one version of it here.
One day a huge white bear appears at their door and offers to magically to fix the family's dire financial and health problems if Rose will to come away with the bear, and she agrees.
Rose can go back home to her family ...
A fine retelling of an old, less well-known folktale.
This wasn't my favorite retelling of East of the Sun West of the Moon (ACOTAR probably still holds that spot), but it was still fun to see the different take on it!
The story follows the usual format of her coming back to save him from the troll queen figure, but throws in a lot of other stuff like mermaids and dragons.
You don't see a lot of pregnant teenage heroines storming a castle while they're in labor, so the story definitely gets points for originality.The ice castle was probably my favorite part.
For those of you who don't know, "East of the Sun, West of the Moon" is similar to "Beauty and the Beast," only instead of a beast, we have a polar bear, and instead of a wicked witch, there is an evil troll queen.
For one, the novel is told in alternating perspectives, each chapter shifting from the point of views of Rose, her older brother Neddy, her Father, the Troll Queen, or the Bear himself.
(Short chapters, larger print.) The story is based on the Norwegian fairytale "East of the Sun and West of the Moon" which I didn't know until I read the author's notes at the end.
The author titled each chapter after a character to piece together the story from different perspectives.
This is a great book for all ages.
I love stories that come to a nice clean end, no questions, no pieces left unturned.
I am going to read more by this author, and soon!
“East” is a retelling of a classic Scandinavian folktale called “East of the Sun West of the Moon” by Edith Pattou and anyone who is a huge fan of fairy tales will definitely get a kick out of this book!Rose is the youngest child of seven children and because she was a born a North born child, according to her mother, she always loved exploring her homeland Njord and getting into trouble.
I loved the way that Edith Pattou added more elements to this story such as adding background information about each character in the book, especially Rose and we actually get to read about the other point of views of each character associated with Rose’s life like her father, her brother Neddy, the White Bear and the Troll Queen.
Since the book had such a large scope in following different characters over an extended period of time, it read like this:"We journeyed across the tundra.
The romance was slow-building, more about trust and compassion, than about physical lust.
Which, don't get me wrong, was certainly refreshing, but the novel was slow-paced already, and having nothing in the romance department along with nothing in the action department lead for a bored Morgan.
I did like this book, but when you are used to action-y, romance-y YA, it can be a bit too slow.
Plus, it's historical fantasy rather than plain old-school fantasy, as the setting is 16th century Scandinavia, and the author uses a historical event from a century prior that's somewhat mysterious and apt for reinterpreting in fiction.Unfortunately, once the story hits the middle of the narrative arc, decline settles in.
There's a feel that the author isn't that familiar with Scandinavia and its languages, despite her including phrases and words in Norwegian, because she misses the correct spelling and umlauts, a frequent mistake by foreigners.
Wouldn't it be more interesting to hear from the sister who was aided by Rose's going with the bear instead of hearing how silly the mother is, how husband and son seem to reject her?It also is slightly disturbing because Rose is far closer to the male members of her family than her sisters.
Like Rose, the Troll Princess has an older woman as quasi helper.
Like Rose, the Troll Princess' closest relationship seems to be with the male member of her family (her father; her sin is not respecting him.
And the sad thing is he (I'm pretty sure it was a he) really did - I had trouble believing that any of these characters would do anything that didn't come directly from their plot-mandated 'personalities'.The narration style didn't help things.
Rose, Nathaniel, their father, White Bear, and Troll Queen all narrated.
It didn't help that every single narrator had the exact same voice, with the sole exception of White Bear, whose reason for talking differently was - you guessed it - plot-mandated.
Of the two hundred pages I read, not a single thing happened that didn't feel like buildup to something else.
Full of enchantment and wonder, this East of the Sun, West of the Moon retelling was exactly the kind of fantasy story I've been missing in my life lately. The original story is very akin to Beauty and the Beast, but this particular retelling allows for more trolls, more white bears, more questing...more everything. I can't believe I never knew this book existed, not until I saw people talking about  West . I have seriously been missing out because Rose is kind of the perfect heroine: fierce and
Full of enchantment and wonder, this East of the Sun, West of the Moon retelling was exactly the kind of fantasy story I've been missing in my life lately.
The original story is very akin to Beauty and the Beast, but this particular retelling allows for more trolls, more white bears, more questing...more everything.
I can't believe I never knew this book existed, not until I saw people talking about 
I loved this book, absolutely loved it, and I'm so glad I already have West downloaded from the library.
It’s a classic folktale that never fails to move me, but Edith Pattou’s retelling of “East of the Sun, West of the Moon” went above and beyond, astounding me with its magical rendering of a traditional story and simple literary elements.EAST is not extraordinarily sophisticated in writing style: narration alters between several different voices, and none of them particularly stand out as individual examples of great literariness.
This is the second retelling of “East of the Sun, West of the Moon” that I’ve had the pleasure of reading, and I’m astonished at the different directions in which each author took this folktale.
In many ways, other than just expanding on the original, this version seemed to try to add some realism to the tale.
Fortunately it wasn't realism at the cost of magic.
Don't look for anything staggeringly innovative here and the writing isn't perfect, but this is very readable.The novel delineated an ordinary world from a magical world by making Rose's home life somewhat more mundane as well as keeping from her many of the magical resources she receives in the fairy tale.
This also worked to make Rose's journey seem much more full of hardships than is the shorter version.Anyway, I'm making it sound somewhat boring when it wasn't.
Since I read this back when I was first becoming interested in YA, I was worried that a second reading would prove to be less enjoyable.
I am happy to say that the book is still deserving of 5 stars in my opinion.
The multiple POVs are so seamless and well done.
And I dare you not to like Rose.
She is a great heroine!
I think when it's time for Christmas, a lot of people are going to find this book in their stocking.
July 6, 2010This is by far one of the best children's books ever written.
Multiple first person POVs always throw me off. Always. This wasn't an exception, though I really liked the narrators, so it didn't distract me as much as if could have.I'm a bit disappointed that the more fantastic aspects of the original folk tale were not included, but if I had never read the original story, I wouldn't have noticed they were missing.
This is Young Adult Fantasy.
As I'm not the target audience, I'll add a star because this was age appropriate.
I liked Rose, the MC.
She evolved through her journey.
The other characters were also well drawn with their own individual quirkiness.
This one started kind of slow, but it picked up during the latter half with her journey to "East of the Sun, West of the Moon." I liked the creativity.
Some of this was kind of wild, but the author did a great job at anchoring it firmly to the story.
So 4 stars.
DNF @ 125 pagesNo one is more disappointed than I am. I've been wanting to read this book for quite some time, but it just didn't work for me :(It's told like a journal entry, which makes it feel clinical and detached, thus I was unable to connect to the story or characters. And it was dry. On top of that, it feels like borderline magical realism? Which I was unaware of going in, and magical realism is soooo not my jam. Sorry?I think this is just a solid case of not for me.
4.5🌟
...LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH!!
:3 Actually East is a fairytale retelling of the Norwegian folk tale ‘East of the Sun and West of the Moon’, which is about this girl who is taken by a white bear as part of a deal, and everyone is horrified by this, but turns out she becomes the bear’s knight in shining armor when she has to save him from this dreadful troll queen.
Notice that this book is like 500 pages long, and I read it, nay!, devoured it from one day to the other.
The retelling sticks very close, closer than any retelling I have read before so I was (sorry to say) a bit bored, at the same time there were elements that the fairy tale does not have and some aspects that kept me guessing.I found it a bit confusing how they used real names of cities here in Norway yet the country they lived in was called Norjd..
Why not keep the name Norway, or alternatively use new names for the cities.Also it seemed like this was suppose to take place in a fantasy would yet the real aspects(the food, the geography) confused me.
A nostalgic, emotional five for this book.
I really, really, liked it.
The fable of east of the sun and west of the moon told in a novel form, it reminds me of fairytale retellings I read as a young teen, (Robin McKinley and such), and it was very easy to submerge myself in the story.
cozy.
Reading it at a bus stop in the freezing rain was comforting, and reading it cozied up with blankets and tea was exactly what I wanted.
If you had mixed feelings about His Dark Materials, but still really like polar bears and legends from the far north?
This is the book is for you.
I liked the portrayal of the trolls and how you get into the mind of the Troll Queen and see some of her motivations better.
I enjoyed the alternating POV.But however much I enjoyed it and it kept me interested, it was slow.
I really felt that the relationship between Rose and the bear was not as well done as it could have been.
The bear's character was rather weak and the alternating POV was not utilized to the book's advantage as much as it could have been, as far as the bear was concerned.But I liked it.
Decent characters.
This is clearly a YA classic that I only just got around to reading, but I'm surprised at a few things. 1. This was EXTREMELY slow to start. Like, ok, I get how her mother is battshizz crazy about superstitions and birth direction. 2. I wanted more from the ending. I'm greedy and wanted more...something. Sizzle, maybe?I definitely enjoyed Rose's MANY challenges, adventures and interesting friends along the way.
It's been quite a while since I read this, so I will leave a proper review until my eventual re-reading but I will say that as it is based on my favourite fairytale, I can remember being particularly harsh on this retelling. I recall it being good but not quite living up to my memories of the original tale, and as I don't know if anything really will live up to those memories it may be wise to add a star in your mind to whatever review I finally do give.
Pages read: 14I'm not impressed with the prose or the fact that, in 14 pages, I've already encountered 4 separate first person perspectives. To pull off that many first person perspectives takes a Herculean amount of talent, and trying to switch perspectives every two or three pages makes that even more difficult. Given that I don't like the prose (very simple and tell-y), I'm pretty certain I would not enjoy this one.
*** Read first in November 2011 ***: I hope I'll carve out some time to review, but I have to say this is how a fairytale retelling should be in my opnion. Thank you so much, Teccc, for parting with your copy. It would have taken ages - or maybe forever - until I decided to finally buy it.
This book will waste your time. The story is entirely unbelievable and hard to relate to.
a childhood favorite. so beautiful
Truth and lie, side by side.”“East” by Edith Pattou is a magical story retelling of the tale, “East of the sun, West of the moon”, which sadly I hadn’t heard of before.
So when an enormous white bear mysteriously shows up and asks her to come away with him--in exchange for health and prosperity for her ailing family--she readily agrees.
I can’t believe I never knew this book existed until a few months ago, and I’m a lucky girl because I was chosen by NetGalley to review Pattou’s sequel to this (duology?) called West coming out later this year!
