https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18857175-the-arabian-nights-entertainments
كتاب قصصي رائع جدًا رغم أنه طويل مناسب لمحبي القصص الخيالية أو ما يعرف بالفانتازيايحتوي على العديد من القصص المنقولة عن زمن هارون الرشيد .. وعدة فترات أخرى من التاريخ العربييجب أن تتحلى بالصبر لإكمال هذا الكتاب نظرًا لطوله ( 4000 صفحة تقريبًا)
Ask people about The Arabian Nights stories and most will say they know all about them. I would have said the same, although I'd never read them. This collection, which does not contain all the tales, had many stories which kept me reading and which I enjoyed as much as the more familiar fairytales of my childhood. I'm only sorry it took me this long to discover them.
I really wanted to give this five stars but disappointingly this version has tales missing. However I thoroughly enjoyed not just the presented tales but the manner in which they were told. Very much recommended.
It's fun to read folk/fairy tales from other regions. I really had a good chuckle about the hunchback who died but really didn't.
Quite enjoyed this at first, but then the novelty of the stories lost their appeal.
Mine was the Audible version which I cannot find on GoodReads. The narrator Suehyla El Attar did an excellent job. This is an abridged text, only about 11 hours audio, selected by Andrew Lang. It is a good introduction for younger readers to the entire Arabian Nights tales. The first set of stories is fun for the way they nest in each other and you forget where it all started.If you wish you can pick up many interesting little cultural nuggets as the stories progress.
Short and sweetA collection of few of the best tales of the real one and good for people not interested in them all.
Magico y entrenenidoMagico y lleno de aventuras una bonita lectura atraves de diferentes y extrañas historias. Se conoce un poco de cultura Persa.
These stories were pretty good. Not my style but well worth reading anyway.
Arabian NightsIt's pretty interesting though obviously a product of a different time and a different culture. Some of the stances on women and the way others should be treated are pretty objectionable by modern standards. However you can't assess old fables by modern morals. Pretty good overall but the story within a story theme can get a bit confusing. Worth a read for any fan of fables.
I quite enjoyed this one. It was a bit more interesting than most mythology but not quite as cool as I always hope this sort of stuff will be. I read a version by Andrew Lang. It was pretty economical and easy to understand. The Francis Burton version was reassuringly erudite but a little too long-winded to be easily digestible.It was pleasantly diverting but I suppose I wouldn't recommend it.
These middle eastern fairy tales start off as simple stories within stories but then get more elaborate and interesting. There are geniis, sultans, caliphs, princes and princesses, and lots of merchants seeking fortunes. It's interesting to see the broad similarities and differences between these (Andrew Lang's translation) and Grimm's fairy tales. Not surprisingly, the original story of Aladdin is very different than Disney's version.
I enjoyed reading this book the Arabian Nights. The stories such as Ali Baba and the 40 thieves were my favorite. I loved the idea of the creative servant who saved Ali Baba over and over. The Voyages of Sinbad got dull pretty fast but other than that I loved these stories. I always do wonder what version to review on but this one was the closest to the 40 year old copy of the book I own. That is why I rate this book 4 stars.
These are a good level of entertaining - entertaining enough that I enjoyed and finished the (incomplete) book, but not so entertaining that I stayed up too late reading. I read a Richard Burton translation, which I liked and chose because others recommended it. I'm pretty sure I didn't read the complete edition; the one I read was 300-400 pages.
Classic readingSuspend your disbelief and enjoy these ancient Middle Eastern tales for what they are. Well worth it at the price.
The stories were intriguing yet, hard to understand at first. I wish that the end of the book had wrapped up the end as to the story teller and what became of her.
over all it was a good book, though I will have to admit I felt it a little dry at times.
EntertainingShort stories that keep your interest. Perfect for insomniacs like me. Some are familiar but do not end the way you remember.
A masterpiece of the literatureA masterpiece of the literature. It has to be read either as a classic or as an incredible and vivid adventure
Lousy translation by Lang... Histories are heavily cut and censored.
