https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235475.Tanis_the_Shadow_Years
I suppose that if you love, love, love DragonLance, and if you love, love, love the Chronicles series, and if you've read every single book in the series, then yes, you might as well read this one, too. That's why I picked it up. Unfortunately, the willpower required to finish the book makes it unworthy of even a "beach reading" rating.
They're called shadow years for a good reason: as far as I can remember, nothing that happens is relevant to the larger story. So, need to read only if you like Tanis, which I never did.
Tanis found out that the old man, Kishpa, was the man who had information about his father.
One problem in this book is that Kishpa doesn't want a lady, Brandella, who he remembered to die with him being the only one that remembered.
Tanis tries to solve this problem by going into Kishpa's memory to find her.
Another problem in the book is that Clotnik keeps on dropping a special glass ball that he juggles with to take a risk.
Tanis solves the problem by making Clotnik promise he would not juggle with that valuable glass ball again.
If you really liked Tanis in Chronicles, I would advise you not to read this book.
Go ahead only if you're able to disassociate the Tanis in this book and the Tanis in Chronicles.
But then, the plot itself is a bit weird, and there's too much love involved to the point of ignoring Tanis' relationship with Kitiara.
Absolutely nothing about this book ties in with Chronicles, so just read it as if it's a standalone story.
In all honesty, it starts off pretty promising, but it kinda falls short towards the end, with a rather weird finale.

Mediocre storytelling and writing...to be honest I have yet to find a Dragonlance book not written by Weiss and Hickman that I really enjoyed. This is no different...came across like bland fantasy filler. Too bad because Tanis has always been my favourite character!
Are we reading about Tanis from the Dragonlance Chronicles or just some guy who could be anyone having this adventure?
It certainly felt like the latter and, whilst in some ways that's no bad thing, I feel that this series of books ultimately bailed out on its own premise and has to be judged accordingly.
Nevertheless, if we're prepared to accept that this adventure happened to Average-Joe the half-elf, then I confess I kinda liked it in a man-goes-into-someone else's-dream-in-order-to-retrieve-the-memory-of-his-dead-love-before-he-dies kind of way.
But it uses the Dragonlance setting pretty well to do it's own thing and like most Dragonlance books, I had another good time.
TANIS: THE SHADOW YEARS is the last of the Dragonlance Preludes series, telling the adventures of the principle characters in the Chronicles trilogy in the preceding years.
This one sees what Tanis Half-Elven was up to five years before DRAGONS OF AUTUMN TWILIGHT, but anyone expecting a decent adventure is likely to be disappointed.
The action sequences are cliched and lack excitement, and like some of the other preludes, this seems to have been written in a great hurry.
It's not the worst book I've read, but for a Dragonlance fan it's largely a disappointment.
Not a good book on many levels.
I had the highest hopes for this Prelude because in the original series Tanis was one of the better characters described and built for the reader.
All around he was the main protagonist in the series which is why I had high hopes for thise book.
I would of rated this book a 3 if it maintained my interest like it did in the beginning of the book but it seemed to fall off a peak of entertaining to a dull bore after they defended the elvish town form the humans.
I found myself wanting the book the end at certain points because I felt as if the book could of ended at many different points and resulted in the same thing.
On one side, I love reading/watching prequels because they give you a deeper insights into characters that you presumably care about (otherwise, why would you bother with a prequel?).
You may not know the specific way that a problem will be resolved, but you know that by the end of the prequel, things must be exactly the way they were before the sequel begins.With all of that said, I still really enjoyed this book.
It tales an interesting story and I always enjoyed Tanis as a character.
I would suggest this for any of the Tanis fans out there.
My rating is 1.5 stars.A novel that takes place in the world of Dragonlance.
This tells the story of Tanis before the original trilogy.
A mage asks Tanis to save a woman but the hitch is that Tanis must travel in time thru the mage's memory.
This book never grabbed me.
I never felt any connection to any of them including Tanis.
To me, it was something out of comic books instead of Dragonlance.
There are better Dragonlance books out there.
I would only read this if you want to read every Dragonlance book.
Tanis is a favorite character of mine from DragonLance. This book did not disappoint, it only made his story better. Taking a trip back in memory, and perhaps time, Tanis takes up an unusal request from a dieing mage. The request seems to only get more and more complicated as the story develops. With a sweet and touching ending, it was a great addition to Tanis and the DragonLance series.
This was the most disappointing of the Preludes II series by far. There were so many plot holes and events that even for a fantasy novel were unbelievable, and that took me out of the book. The characters weren't nearly as relatable as in the other Preludes II novels, and not nearly as likable in my opinion.
copy-pasted from my Librarything account: Very nice book/story, with action, romance, philosophical stuff.. Maybe not the best DL-book, but it's definitely a good one, in my opinion. Reads fast and is very enjoyable.
Fue de los primeros libros que leí de esta saga de novelas y el que me animó a leer más libros. Para mí fue un antes y un después. Gracias a él, empecé a leer por gusto y no por obligación. Adoré al personaje de Tanis.
Fun stuff. Tanis sure did have some weird adventures. =)
What happens to Tanis, before he becomes one of the Heroes of the lance.
Tanis is my favorite character for this series so I naturally liked this book. I was not impressed with the lead female character, but I enjoyed the story.
Weakest prelude in series. Too much different timelines, ideas and aspects put together with no real point in the story.
Only read it because I have a bif curiosity of what happen to the companions.
I was never a reader of epic fantasy... and then I discovered the Dragonlance books and never looked back.
Tanis, the Shadow Years (Dragonlance: Preludes) by Barbara Siegel (1990)
Time Travel.
