https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81524.The_Dark_Hills_Divide
Precocious twelve-year-old Alexa Daley is the daughter of the mayor of another settlement.
Alexa eventually concludes that he drinks to deal with the stress of his perilous job.Politics and Religion: There are some Christian allegorical elements in this series.
Again, know your kids!ConclusionThe first installment in Patrick Carman's Elyon series is a solid middle-grade adventure/fantasy/mystery with a well-crafted setting and palpable sense of dread.
Alexa is a brave and clever kid who has a good relationship with her dad and other authority figures.
I wasn't able to read this book every day like I usually do with novels, so for a long time I attributed my lack of interest in it's characters, and my confusion regarding the plot, to the fact that I wasn't able to keep the flow.
There are talking animals (a very entertaining squirrel included) who've been separated by the wall (quite sad, and again, Alexa must help), and there's a fantastic library, and of course, the enjoyment of trying to figure out who the spy is.
I can hardly believe I've been missing out on this splendid, little series all this time!The Dark Hills Divide by Patrick Carman brings us into the intriguing Land of Elyon, where we meet sweet Alexa Daley, who is quite smart and courageous.
^_^The Dark Hills Divide was written in first person, but had a little different feel than most books like that.
*huggles book* Fans of The Chronicles of Narnia, you definitely must give The Dark Hills Divide a try.
Also, those who like adventure and intriguing worlds beyond the normal, you'll probably love this tale!
I still own that book, and I checked, just to make sure my memory wasn't malfunctioning.)Anyhow - I've got a signed indie printing copy, a signed poster, and the first three books in Scholastic hardback, and I found out as I prepared to write this review that Carman and I also share an alma mater - but I'm not in fourth grade anymore, and this book didn't stand up to the test of time even with such a heavy nostalgia factor/personal connection.A grain of salt: as Carman mentions in the afterword to this volume, the story was originally created to entertain his two young daughters, so a certain degree of absurdity or lack of coherence is understandable...
or it was, until he got picked up by a Big 6 publisher.I think that's the thing that it all comes down to, in the end.
The same is true of the land inside the walls, where we meet relatively few people (all of them seemingly old or middle-aged men--where are the women and children?) and get very little sense of culture.The plot is also problematic.
As mentioned above, there is little sense of danger or suspense for the first half of the book; the arduous journey/quest Alexa makes is mostly conveyed through telling us it's arduous and by describing her blisters.Re-reading in high school after having read it in elementary school makes these things more obvious, but for any elementary student, this is a great read.
Re-read January 2017The Bridewell library though. <3
The Dark Hills Divide is a simple fantasy book directed to children that has captivated my heart in more ways than I imagined.
But the seaming of the lovable characters, the mysterious setting, and the adventure was so well done that it become a beautiful work.We see from the point of view of Alexa, a gusty and curious girl who wishes to venture out of the walls that surround Bridewell.
She had always wondered about what lies outside and her being close to Warvold, the founder of Bridewell and the greatest adventurer of all time, isn't helping at all.Warvold and Alexa were having one of their walks when Warvold suddenly tells her this strange poem about the Blind Men of Indostan.
I was hoping that this would be a series I could recommend to voracious middle-grade fantasy readers, but no such luck.
But (a) the story in the book has nothing to do with the real Cabeza de Vaca, and (b) throughout, the main character calls him "Cabeza," as if that were his first name.I read it all the way through, mostly to see what on earth else could happen.
I hope Carman hits his stride in the other books in the series, and his ideas have a better chance to come out in the clear.
4.25 Squirrels and Wolves and Bears, oh my.What an enjoyable book! Lite kid's fantasy.12 year old heroine? CheckLovable animals? CheckQuestionable adults? CheckAdventure sans adults? CheckHeroine saving the day? Nope sorry you have to read to find out.
I still remember the moment I saw this book...The cover caught my attention and felt like a great story to read.
Even though the book is written by a male author, the main character is female and fantastically written!!!The story is like a fairytale.
Beautiful scenery, amazing "heroes", plot twists and fun.I am a really slow reader but I read this in a day, because it was so well written and fast paced.Great for all ages, in my opinion.Can't wait to see how the story continues and how much Alexa evolves as a character.
Alexa, a spirited, independent twelve-year-old growing up in a complex of walled villages, longs for adventure and a chance to see what lies beyond the walls' boundaries.
This first volume in the Land of Elyon series is a recommended reader's advisory selection, with a strong female protagonist.
As she begins to unravel the truth about what lies outside the protective barrier around Bridewell and towns nearby, Alexa discovers a strange and ancient enchantment, possibly the work of Elyon, the fabled creator of the land in which she lives."SLJ: "Grade 4-6 [An] entertaining, accessible fantasy...
I’ve wanted to read this book since I first came upon it, however I didn’t feel the story lived up to the beautiful cover.
The main character is Alexa, who at 12 years old stands a little over 4 feet tall and longs to discover what is beyond the walls surrounding her town.
Even at the end when a trusted character betrays Alexa, I didn’t feel like I knew either character enough for it to impact me.
I probably won’t read the sequel, but am intrigued to hear if the author is able to develop the characters and plot further.
Alexa Daley is given a special stone and thrust into a world she doesn't know beyond the safe walls of her city with a destiny to save her world from a coming war.
(Again I know you've heard all that before.)What sets this series apart and makes it something you really want to read is the connection between the creator Elyon and his land and his people.
That we would know he loves us.
To live bodily for that kind of love is the least I can do."The visuals popped out from the pages and I was really able to get into the world of Elyon.
Some of these boundaries we impose upon ourselves, some are put upon us by the society in which we live; some are physical, and some are emotional.The Land of Elyon is divided into four walled and gated cities joined to each other by walled roads.
As far as everyone knows, there is no way to the "other" side of the wall.Every summer, the leaders of each of the cities gather together in Bridewell, the central city in the land.
Every summer, Alexa explores Bridewell (searching for a way beyond the wall) while her father attends to official business.
Odd book about a girl named Alexa in a city entirely walled off from a forest down to the roads coming in and going out.
It's up to Alexa and some talking animals to stop them.There's just too many odd decisions and twists to make sense.
They mentioned building the walls to stave off some evil, but what evil and why are the convicts immune to it?
Why does Alexa need talking animals to stave off what is a rather mundane threat?
I really like this book because it is fantasy.
I really don't know why i like fantasy.
This book was really good because Alexa trys to save as many people as she can.
She also is just a very caring person like me.
Thats what I don't like about this book.
I also like this book because she meets a lot of people who are like monsters but not exactly monsters.
More like faries or so.
Another thing I don't like about this book is she kind of tells you what is going to happen at the end.
It was pretty good.
Perfect little fantasy adventure. Plus it has a talking squirrel. Easy 5 star.
This was an odd little book... But charming nonetheless. It didn't always make sense, but gee... There's something magical about the world that pulls me in!
Moje recenze: http://sheisbookaholic.blogspot.cz/20...
Ενα όμορφο παραμύθι. Αμα το είχα στα χέρια μου όταν ήμου πιτσιρίκα, θα είχα ξετρελαθεί. Τώρα μου φάνηκε λίγο πιο αφελές απ'οτι θα ήθελα. 3,5/5 αστεράκια.
This book was just okay, in my opinion. I'm not saying that the story is bad or anything. I just really didn't connect to the characters or anything. So, I won't be continuing the series.
Πολύ όμορφη ιστορία. Όσο διάβαζα το βιβλίο γινόταν και καλύτερο μέχρι που έφτασα να ανυπομονώ να πιάσω στο χέρι μου το επόμενο της σειράς!
I picked it up again last week, and today I finally finished it.You know, I'm actually a little disappointed, because Patrick Carman's writing (when it comes down to describing nature and architecture) is really good and vivid, but the plot and character development were a huge mess.Some of the reasons why I'm giving the book one star.**SPOILERS AHEAD**1) Alexa (the MC) doesn't sound her age.
I cringed every time I read their interactions, because I got the feeling the author didn't mean to make Pervis sound like a pervert, which then made me think that either the author doesn't understand what it means to write from a girl's perspective, or perhaps Alexa just wasn't a girl at all, she was a middle-aged man in disguise.4) There's a character with dwarfism in the story.
It adds a nice touch to continue reading this story.And I don’t know if it’s the adventure in me, but when Alexa lays out her stash of random items she carries with her, it reminded me of my own handbag, and how there’s an assortment of stuff – ready for adventure, ready for anything.In addition, I love the characters.
However there’s no connection to any past events or history in the world – which I guess explains why it’s in the fantasy genre.I have to admit, I think the main reason I got this book in the first place was my love for the cover – that home-y vibe.
Promising stuff (three cities entirely surrounded by forty foot walls to keep out the dangers a dark forest; keys; puzzles, immense library) but it's got some issues.
I also find it extreme odd that they would be willing to hold out underground for that many years - A misuse of Cabeza de Vaca --- Carman paints him as a explorer in some made up fairyland book.
- This isn't necessarily a problem, but it is interesting/odd that there aren't any other children in the entire book.
Bridwell is the "spoke of the wheel"; three other cities branch out from it, and all of them are surrounded by 48-feet high stone walls, which the legendary traveler Warvold built, long ago in his youth, to protect those he loved from the terrors of the wild.The real story--and danger--begins with the sudden death of Warvold, setting off a chain of events only the great man's passing could trigger.
Quite suddenly, Alexa finds herself swept off her feet, into an entirely new world of danger and long-lost magic.
I loved reading this book, everything was very well thought up, original and exciting.
She loves her yearly trips with her father to Bridewell, where he takes care of political and such matters and she tries to find a way outside the 80-feet walls that surround Bridewell and the other cities.
The wall separates the wild untamed wilderness from the civilized cities and towns.
People treat curiosity towards the outside world as dangerous and harmful.
When a series of events leads Alexa underground and underneath the wall, she finds herself in a very different world.
And it's up to Alexa and her friends to save it.
I found the whole communicating with animals to be slightly annoying, actually.
I can’t help that sometimes I like these sort of books because it’s just all about the adventure.
A simple and fun adventure of a girl who wants to know what’s beyond the walls, and is clever enough to figure out how to escape.
My one problem with the book is that everyone talks about how much Warvold meant to everyone, and Alexa loved him and was close to him, and yet there was no real grieving from anyone.
This is for kids, who just want to enjoy the tales of a girl who gains the ability to talk to animals and learns of dangers that are threatening everything she loves.
Twelve year old Alexa has spent her whole life confined within the city walls of Bridewell longing to see more, longing to explore a world beyond the walls.
But what if the real danger was not outside the walls but within?Alexa would spend her days in the city playing as a spy, hiding in the shadows.
Through ingenuity, circumstance and a little help from her friends Alexa is able to not only solve a dangerous mystery but also bring about a change in her city that sees a better future for everyone.
At only twelve years old this little heroin has a lot more adventures ahead of her.
I didn't believe whatever reason the founder of the city had for building the walls in the first place, nor that he (or his wife) would hide secret and complicated clues about the possible destruction of the city rather than just ousting the criminal outright.
They've been living with the criminals already, and they have no promise from anyone that the walls will come down so they can pass freely once the skirmish is over.
Even so, I kept reading because I wanted to know the identity of the traitor, and I wanted to know how they would save the city.
