https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/607344.Ashes_and_Diamonds
(Andrzejewski is one of the authors critiqued in Czesław Miłosz’s The Captive Mind – a book I’ve been wondering whether it would be better to read before or after works by the writers discussed in it.)Ashes & Diamonds is positively systematic and educational in the way that it sets out the moral arguments concerning collaborators and those who were just following orders, obviously a topic of huge current significance in 1948.
(As mentioned below in the comments, Andrzejewski had to edit the book several times, and I think this 1960s English translation was based on a fairly Party-friendly version.) I've since noticed that the dance at the end of the film echoes the dance at the end of the hugely influential 1901 play The Wedding by Stanisław Wyspiański (which I read after Ashes & Diamonds).
Sad little story of those trying to reestablish everyday life in Poland after the war and those who can't adjust and are trying to continue fighting.In the way that these things go a good chunk of my memory of this book consists in fact of a memory of the long scene of the new year's celebration from the Andrzej Wajda film version.
-e/kr]The great set piece that spans two sprawling masterly chapters of Jerzy Andrzejewski's 1948 novel Ashes and Diamonds is an all-night party at the Hotel Monopole in the Polish provincial capital of Ostrowiec, where many of the book's characters have gathered to celebrate the promotion of the town's mayor, Swiecki, to a plum ministerial post in the postwar government in Warsaw.Swiecki is the kind of faceless, amorally ambitious man who will be needed to run the communist bureaucracy of Poland for the next 40 years.
Miłosz describes Andrzejewki's writing before WWII, describes his experiences during the war, and gives a blow by blow account of the 1948 novels Ashes and Diamonds, which was an apology for the Soviet takeover of Poland.In the novel, the communists who are taking over Poland, through what they hope will be only indirect Soviet intervention, with the collaboration of the "new" Polish Army and Government brought in from WWII exile in the Soviet Union, are the good guys.
The remnants of the Polish Home Army, leading a rearguard combat against the communists, and the Polish aristocracy are the bad guys.
Had to have a classmate from Polish ship this to me during his Euro-travels this summer. I'm not sure why this book, in Polish, has been so hard for me to acquire. The film adaption by Andrzej Wajda I highly recommend. One of my favorites.Took me long enough, but I finally finished my first book in Polish!!!
Colonel Staniewicz of the Home Army answers a question from his lieutenant on why Szczuka must be killed: “In today’s set-up we Poles are divided into two categories: those who have betrayed the freedom of Poland and those who do not wish to do so.
History will be the final judge as to who was right.”(pages 49-50)This provides some of the troubling nature of the novel, both in content and intent, since the colonel for the Home Army is being presented as another ideologue like Szczuka (and include the Communist secretary of the district, Podgorski, in that camp), willing to justify any act as long as it is for their higher cause.
و هر بار چون مشعلی فروزان از درون خویش شعله می کشی و آن دم که می سوزی، می پرسی آیا به آزادی بزرگتری دست خواهی یافت؟یا آنچه را که از آن توست به ننگ خواهی آلود؟آیا فقط خاکستر و غباری برجای می ماندکه با وزش بادی محو می شود؟یا در قعر خاکسترالماسی درخشان خبر از صبح پیروزی ابدی خواهد داد؟
He really needed to spice this book up
3,5
In the notes to a 2007 translation of Andrzejewski’s earlier novel, Holy Week, commentator Oscar Swan writes: “The year 1954 found Andrzejewski politically sanitizing a new edition of Ashes and Diamonds, which had become required reading in the schools.”German writer Heinrich Böll (1917-1985), like Milosz a recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature, is altogether kinder to Ashes and Diamonds in his introduction written for the 1980 Penguin “Writers from the Other Europe” paperback edition of the novel, and reprinted in the 1997 Northwestern University Press edition.
Almost as an aside, Böll notes that “the reader feels” that Andrzejewski “has a sense of kinship” with the novel’s “young Socialist and Communist functionaries.” While both the Penguin and NUP editions of Ashes and Diamonds use D.
Dlaczego nie 5 gwiazdek?
Mimo notki na pierwszej stronie wspomniającej, że "Popiół i diament" jest lekturą szkolną czwartej klasy liceum ogólnokształcącego, starałam się nie podejść do niej sceptycznie na samym początku.
Aby sprawić by ludzie znienawidzili książkę, wystarczy że zrobimy ją lekturą.
Wojna zmieniła wiele i w tej książce doskonale to widać.
Nie tylko pogorzeliska kawiarenki uwielbianej przez mieszkańców, ale również przyjaźń, odwaga, honor, niezłomność chrakteru.
Jednak są rzeczy, których wojna nie zmieniła: ludzie dalej pracują tylko na swój rachunek a nie na rachunek państwa.
Fine read illustrating the complexities of postwar Poland, reckoning with the legacy of a brutal, destructive war and with a future dominated by the Russians and communism. The author captures through his characters the pulls these different tensions exerted on human beings who endured one trauma and were staring down the barrel of another one.
Czy da się wyrzucić z pamięci tragiczną rzeczywistość obozową?
I wreszcie – czy jest gdzie i do kogo wracać?
W żadnym wypadku nie można stwierdzić, że powieść jest totalnym badziewiem.
Czytelny jest też tytuł utworu – nigdy nie możemy być pewni tego, jaką rolę odegramy na kartach historii.
Apeluję jednak – nie dajmy się zwariować.
To właśnie przez takie książki uczniowie nie czytają lektur.
Przez takie książki cierpią chociażby „Dżuma”, „Granica” oraz „Proces”, które uwrażliwiają i wzbogacają wiedzę czytelnika, nie wysyłając go jednocześnie na mentalną drogę krzyżową.
It also speaks to how fractionalization becomes violent and motivated by foggy ideologies when society has lost its foundation of values and institutions -- as here in the traumatized, post-war Poland.
I see it in the USA these sad days.I think this is a highly intellectual book.
There is romance and irony and "story", but the characters are emblems.
One Goodreads reviewer writes, in effect, that the author was an apologist for the Communist takeover of Poland.
But I think it is also because, as that other Goodreads reviewer said, the book is meant to explain something.
I'd glad I read this book!
The Russians are already in control, the resistance is building (JA uses the word "solidarity" a few times), and people are trying to come to terms with their new life.
Here's a nice passage in which a man struggles to come to grips with his future after being in a Nazi internment camp for four years: "Depressing and grotesque inanity was the meaningless truth left after the passing of all experience.
His life seemed to have no more significance than a handful of dust.
Once the hand was unclenched, nothing would remain." This book has intrigue (spies!
Al finalizar la Segunda Guerra Mundial, la gente de un pueblo polaco busca regresar a una normalidad de la que apenas se acuerda.
Sin embargo, el mapa político ha cambiado: el ascenso del comunismo divide a la sociedad en dos bandos igualmente idealistas, los cuales se enfrentan en una guerra sin cuartel.
Sin embargo, no sólo en lo colectivo se verán las consecuencias de la guerra, también en lo individual se comprobará cómo las circunstancias límite de un campo de concentración llevarán a cualquiera —incluso aquellos que solían tener una vida «honorable»— a mostrar su lado más ignominioso, mientras que otros simplemente se percatan de que la vida tendría que proseguir por otros senderos en los que la muerte sea un «final de camino» y ya no un movimiento estratégico.
Considering the expansive list of characters and the third-person narrative, it was very easy to identify with characters and really picture them in your mind's eye, which I found quite surprising for such a little book.
My favourite story in the plot was definitely the budding romance between Michael and Christina, as it gave a real hope for the future, where the rest of the book felt quite dark.
Overall, I did enjoy this book but I think it could have gone further with the plot, a little less mystery and some more explanation would have involved the reader a lot more.
Great short novel about people's behaviour in times of duress. The story covers a few days at the very end of WWII in Poland. The characters are all trying to adjust to the new conditions, recovering and regrouping. I loved the dialogues which were very naturalistic and the complex set of feelings that the protagonists are having to deal with. Some look back with shame, sadness or relief, whilst others look forward with excitement or apprehension. It contains action as old scores are settled but much reflection. I really enjoyed it.
I gave up on this because I felt my time would be better spent watching the great film again. As I recall this edition (North West University Press) had errata and notes explaing the errata. Maybe in a new edition newly translated I would read this.
I read this book as a youth in the 60s. I remember I enjoyed it but unfortunately it's become entangled with the film by Andrzej Wajda and the two will ever be so. Perhaps I need to read it again someday.
hmmm. Some of it has dated badly. Still worth reading.
Popiol i diament by Jerzy Andrzejewski (1974)
Grim
I have a feeling I've just finished a book that will be a favorite for a very long time to come.
read this in my eastern european lit class my first year of college. i remember i liked it, but can't remember how much.
