https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68455.Wie_a_Jask_ki
How can I give an outline of the plot of the sixth book of a series without giving huge spoilers?
Some got killed, including the people that really deserved it.
Unfortunately the passage in question is not very long, but for me it was the best part of the book bar none.Something else to note: in terms of violence the novel has more of it than all the previous combined.
In the end I have to say that if managed to finish this next-to-last book of a series, it is too late to give up now.
Believe it or not, the hero of this installment is not the Witcher, Yennefer or Ciri.
The last installment had very little narrative space for Ciri and Yennefer (no complaints there), but this one brutally revamps Ciri as on hell of a character by pushing her limits like never before.
Tower of Swallow finally confronts or at least untangles the politics of war and character motivations through chapters featuring Twany owl as well as Dijkstra.
The action scenes featuring Witcher and Co were complete mayhem as always, and there are many memorable moments.But Ciri stole the show with amazing finale fight on the ice.
The writing feels lost: ambling around without direction, constantly jumping scenes, and forgetting about Geralt altogether about half-way through the book.
Of note, “The Tower of Swallows” isn't really about the eponymous witcher, Geralt of Rivia.
Geralt and his companions, meanwhile, are trying to make their way to Ciri or to where they believe she might be.
Yennefer and Triss are also on Ciri's path, albeit on different timelines, and likely for different reasons.
I get that it's trying to set up the next book, but the ending scene is strangely flat.
This is, by far, the weakest book in the series.
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.The Witcher series by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski continues, with the Child Surprise Ciri travelling around with a bunch of thieves and bandits called the Rats, whilst Geralt, sorcerers and the Emperor send out people to find her.This series has plummeted to the very depths of tedium.
Geralt is still not doing any Witchering, there is still monumental bitching between all the female characters and the dialogue is still pitiful.I complained during a review of an earlier book in this series that we rarely had other points of view during the narration, which seemed to slow down the entire thing.
Buddy read with Celise! "I'm Ciri from Kaer Morhen. I'm a witcher. I came here to kill." Daaaamn.Quite possibly the best book in the main saga.Ramblings to come.
Fan translations of these books have been around for a while, but I don’t mind waiting longer if it means I can enjoy the audio editions; every time I jump into a new book, it’s like coming home to old friends.The Tower of Swallows picks up from the end of Baptism of Fire, where the search for Ciri continues.
Torn between her old life as a princess and her new one as a rogue Witcher, she’s frequently waffling on what she wants, and like many troubled teens she is quick to anger especially when confronted with hard truths.
Odlično napisana i ova. Unapred se radujem finalnoj knjizi.
Buddy read with Markus, who actually led me to discover this amazing series in the first place.The previous book in The Witcher series was a little bit choppy, with each change in point of view requiring some adjustment.
(hide spoiler)] Ciri begins this novel in the company of an interesting character named Vysogota, to whom she reveals the story of her recent encounters, and so reveals them to the reader.
Vysogota himself, while not focused on too much, still has a big impact and his parts are so poetically written.This installment in particular feels very high fantasy with how much it covered both geographically and story-wise.The imagery is also inspired and vividly described.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★★Διαβάζοντας λίγο high fantasy τον τελευταίο καιρό, έχω έρθει στο εξής σημαντικό συμπέρασμα: Στη γενική λογοτεχνία όταν ένα βιβλίο τελειώνει είναι κάτι το φυσικό, αποδέχεσαι εύκολα ότι η ιστορία έχει κορυφωθεί και φτάσει στο τέλος της, είσαι έτοιμος να αφήσεις τους χαρακτήρες και να προχωρήσεις σε κάτι διαφορετικό.Στο fantasy η ιστορία δύσκολα φτάνει στο τέλος της, ο κόσμος είναι τόσο τεράστιος και πλούσιος, πάντα θα υπάρχει κάτι ακόμα να ειπωθεί, ο αναγνώστης έχει επενδύσει και διψάει για τη συνέχεια.
Μια γλυκιά, όμως, μελαγχολία που πηγάζει από την αγάπη για τους ήρωες και τα ταξίδια που έχω κάνει μαζί τους.
Tengo que admitir que este hombre cambia la forma de escribir en cada libro como se le antoja, pero me ha gustado mucho.
Me gusta cómo va creciendo el personaje de Ciri, curtiéndose y no siendo una niña de papa que tan sólo o vive mal o vive bien.
Se sabe salvar ella mismaTengo que admitir que tengo amor y pasión por la literatura fantástica, pero odio esa literatura fantástica destinada a princesas y elfos blandurrios y sosos, con la misma moral y pensamiento, sin picos en personalidad.
Este libro tiene todo lo contrario Y ahora con la Dama del Lago pues...
Más de 300 páginas donde casi todo son diálogos que nos van mostrando los últimos meses de la vida de Ciri.
Sapkowski nos lleva adelante y atrás en el tiempo para ir mostrando poco a poco lo que quiere.
Absolutamente brillante.Eso sí, no sé a quién se le ocurrió que la saga se llamara Geralt de Rivia porque apenas es un secundario en todo esto.
La protagonista y reina absoluta es Ciri, un imán cuando aparece.PD: Esa escena final en el hielo es lo mejor que he leído en muchísimo, muchísimo tiempo.
3.5 Will review at www.fantasyliterature.com
When I began reading the Witcher Saga, as I made progress through the series a fear began to grow in me.
Although I dismissed it at first, now I've come to the realisation that it was true.
The witcher, briefly in action slumps back into a moaning child who is anything but a fearsome warrior I had imagined him to be.
The narration plays out interestingly in this book and PoV is switched between characters as well as storylines.
The extra star is purely out of sentiment, for fond adventures of old and in hope for new adventures that will never come to be.

Personally, what I found most jarring was the late introduction of a certain revelation that came completely out of the blue, without the remotest of remote hints in any of the previous books, and that screws up the worldbuilding and the "alternate Medieval times" feel of the series that gave it the same sort of credibility and plausibility that worlds like Tolkien's Middle-earth or Martin's Westeros have, in the sense that if you struck through "fantasy" from the genre category, this could be totally passed off as a bonafide historical novel.
Για αρχή, όσοι έχετε διαβάσει τις μεταφράσεις από fans διαβάστε όπως και δήποτε τα κανονικά βιβλία στα Αγγλικά, είναι πολύ καλύτερα και δίνουν στο κείμενο το κάτι παραπάνω που έχει στο πρωτότυπο.Προτελευταίο βιβλίο της σειράς και θέλω εδώ και τώρα το τελευταίο (θα περιμένω όμως).
αλλά δεν υπήρχε κανείς να το δει") μας δίνουν ένα έργο πιο "λογοτεχνικό" από αυτό που συνήθως βλέπουμε στο φάνταζυ καθώς και τα πλαίσια μιας μεγαλύτερης, επικής ιστορίας χρησιμοποιώντας όμως ένα μινιμαλιστικό καστ από χαρακτήρες.Πολύ διαφορετικό είναι και το στυλ της αφήγησης: αντί να έχουμε τα μοτίβα του Άρχοντα, εδώ έχουμε ένα κράμμα φάνταζυ, ιστορικού μυθιστορήματος, σπαγγέτι γουέστερν και νουάρ.
She becomes a much darker character as the story progresses, thanks to the brutal mercenaries sent from different sides of the conflict to hunt her down.
Definitely still my favourite character and I can't wait to learn her fate in the final book.
There's a lot more plot progression compared to Baptism of Fire which, while very well written and entertaining, seemed to suffer from 'middle book syndrome.' Shit gets done in this one!
Rarely do I read books in the same series one after the other - I like to mix things up with different stories and writing styles.
преспокойно поредицата "Вещерът" може да се преименува на нещо друго , тъй като аз ВЕЩЕР НЕ ВИЖДАМ В НЕГО!
Отгоре на всичкото Сапковския е решил да измени на стила си , и все повече да пише разказ в разказа.
Еми няма лошо биха казали някои от вас!
Сюжета продължава да е все такава въртележка в която всеки преследва всеки и никой не може да хване никой.
Галфонска му работа!Иначе освен липсата на Гералт-Бахти-Пича , няма големи загуби.
Дори си е все така приятно четиво за следобед , предиобед , вечер и сутрин.
Когато и да я четете май няма да сбъркате!
If a picture is worth a thousand words, the illustration on the cover contains almost as much excitement as the entire 400+ page novel.I will finish this series because I'm already six books deep, but I will do so begrudgingly.
The Witcher stopped being fun about three books ago and instead became a massive (and tedious) fake history lesson.I don't care about the politics anymore.
It's work; it's work remembering everyone's names, it's work keeping track of the timeline as the narration shifts back and forth between dozens of characters, and it's work trying to stay awake and attentive while a protagonist with two swords strapped to his back sits around talking for fifty pages at a time.I wish I had just stuck to the games.
Le ricerca di Ciri continua; Geralt e la sua hansa è disposta a tutto pur di ritrovarla e la loro unica chance sono i druidi.
Tuttavia il cammino si fa sempre più travagliato, gli ostacoli e le prove da superare sono molte e Geralt farà qualunque cosa per raggiungerla, persino rinnegare se stesso.
Ma il suo destino è grande; il suo compito ancora più grande, è lei la rondine, ma raggiungerà la famosa torre della Rondine?Intanto la guerra continua, poi si arresta in vista dell'inverno e iniziano trattati e alleanze utili a quando tutto ricomincerà in primavera, ma la vittoria sembra essere nelle mani dell'impero.
Шестия том от все по-популярната поредица на полския фентъзи феномен Анджей Сапковски и четвърта книга от Сагата за Цири, „Вещерът - Кулата на лястовицата” излезе в края на май и моментално ме накара да ударя пауза на всичко друго докато не я прочета.
Да живеят компютърните игри, които превърнаха „Вещерът” в такъв мощен франчайз и възродиха интереса към творчеството на Сапковски и предизвикаха не само нови издания на романите, но и павираха пътя за предстоящия сериал на Netflix.
Е, геймърските ми дни може и да са в миналото, премиерата на сериала се очаква в близко бъдеще, но аз ще се съсредоточа върху настоящето и „Вещерът - Кулата на лястовицата”!
Rýchlosťou päť odrezaných rúk na kapitolu sa blížime k nevyhnutnému koncu. Čo mám na Sapkowskom naozaj rád je rytmus- neustále meniaci sa rozprávač, stupňujúce a klesajúce tempo a návrat k pôvodnému refrénu.Čo na Sapkowskom nemám rád, je jeho práca s dejom na spôsob zdĺhavých seriálových vát, do ktorých je obalená jedna podstatná udalosť.
No sé qué decir, el final me ha dejado sin palabras. Tengo que leer pronto el último libro.Espero que Ciri y Geralt se reencuentren y no acabe muy mal la historia para ellos.
These reviews are a bit hard to write though, because I'm simultaneously a) reluctant to talk too much about the plot in these later books, since I am now six books in and don't want to spoil anyone; but also b) the arc & pacing of these feel like One Very Long Story rather than individual installments, so it's hard for me to remember precisely what happened in each one after the fact.Regardless, Geralt's ragtag party is fun, with their entire shambolic chasing of the druids.
I did not read the official translation.
I read a fan translation.
The tone was not lost from the "official" translations of the previous books I read.
Do not hesitate to read the fan translations.
Just make sure to purchase the official copy later so Sapkowski and his translation team do not get shafted.This is the darkest of the books in the series.
Sapkowski adds a few new characters that you will love to hate.
Ciri became one of my favorite characters in this book.
Regis became one of my favorite characters of all time in this book.
3.5Libro un po' lento che aumenta di ritmo nel finaleNon mi fa impazzire che Geralt venga messo da parte così tanto.Qualsiasi saga fantasy che si rispetti ha più di un punto di vista, questo va bene.Ma i punti di vista di Geralt non portano a nulla, infatti sono quasi due libri che lui non è al centro della storiaCi sono i suoi POV, ma la sua trama non è così centraleCerca Ciri, ma gira in tondo da due libri.Ciri è appunto diventata in pratica la protagonista principale, anche se non la apprezzo più come nei primi libri
Not the best, but still pretty good. Lots of action, bit of intrigue and very little of the Witcher. This book focuses on Ciri and her quest to find the Tower of the Swallow. The Saga doesn't move on very much, but still an entertaining read. Suffers from the Sane thing book three suffers from, stretching a story out to fill more books. I feel we could have got to this point midway through book 3.
‘La torre de la golondrina’ comienza al inicio de la cima y termina en el pico más alto de la misma, y por el medio una trama bien hilada, con ritmo aunque algo confusa a veces, pero que ya empieza a despejar dudas sobras las intrigas palaciegas y políticas que venía arrastrando toda la saga y sobre quién es quién y qué mueve a cada uno aquí.
He disfrutado mucho la forma en la que Sapkowski escribe esta novela, jugando constantemente con el tiempo, yendo adelante y atrás para contar una misma acción y, al mismo tiempo, cambiando de narrador a menudo, lo que nos da una visión mucho más amplia y varias perspectivas de un mismo suceso.
Ами не е за пет звезди пък.Започна обещаващо, даже повече от добре според мен, обаче нещата не се запазват така до края на книгата.
Сапковски продължава с неговия си наративен стил, смяната на гледните точки, ретроспекциите и прочее прийоми.
Проблемът е, че в някои моменти действието се забавя болезнено много, а Сапковски продължава да вкарва нови герои, забравяйки да дооформи някои от старите.
По-скоро „Всички, но не и Вещерът” книга шеста.
Силно се надявам Сапковски да успее да свърже всичките елементи в последната книга и да поднесе един достоен финал.
این جلد از ویچر خیلی خوب بود، مخلوط متناسبی از شخصیت پردازی، توصیفات، ماجراها و مبارزات که بالانس خیلی خوبی رو توی کتاب برقرار کرده بود.توی این جلد بیشتر با شخصیت در حال شکل سیری مواجه میشیم، بیشتر توی افکار گرالت و تغییراتش نگاه میندازیم و در این بین شخصیت Cahir به طرز جالبی خودش رو توی قلبمون جا میکنه، خیلی خوبه خلاصه :دیاین جلد از کتاب با شدت بیشتری بین تایملاینهای وقایع حرکت میکنه اما نتیجه خیلی خوب شده، از طرفی که سیری داره ماجرای اتفاقاتی که سرش اومده رو میگه و از اون طرف گرالت که داره از
این جلد از ویچر خیلی خوب بود، مخلوط متناسبی از شخصیت پردازی، توصیفات، ماجراها و مبارزات که بالانس خی
