https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176277.The_Time_of_the_Dark
A wizard saving the last prince of his country, a baby named Tir, by world jumping to escape from the terrible things that had erupted from that bound door and eaten a whole city of people; things that his land knew only as the Dark.
Naturally, the pair cling to Ingold, hoping to return home, and trying to survive while they also attempt to find a way to help these people and themselves in this unfamiliar world of swords, magic, treachery, and monsters.
Blog post with links at: https://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/...A recent read of Those Who Hunt the Night led me to one of Hambly’s early series, The Time of the Dark.
If you are looking for classic portal fantasy, this is a great place to start.Gil Patterson, a graduate student in medieval history, is troubled by realistic dreams with a powerful aura of impending doom.
The man, named Ingold, is a warrior and a wizard, able to cross between the two worlds, and is looking for an escape hatch for a special person from the growing terror of the Dark.
I made the mistake of reading this novel (and this series) after seeing the second Aliens movie (which is my favorite of all the Alien films).
I picked up The Time of the Dark, mostly because it was another story along the lines of Stephen R.
Donaldson's Covenant series.
Hambly surprised me with her ability to thrill me, and even at times scare me.
I would attribute this to her ability to make me care deeply for her characters.
Hambly writes the most convincing and inspiring female characters of any author I've read.
This is a book I return to, again and again.It is my comfort read: the book I pick up when I am too tired to read something new.
That sounds odd given the subject matter, but within moments of picking it up, Hambly's prose is invisible to me and I am trudging down the road with the refugees, blinded by snow, freezing and wondering what's out there in the darkness....I can recommend this book on so many levels.
In many ways this is an archetypal fantasy book.
3.5 stars. I almost gave this one four stars, but decided to stick with 3.5 as it just didn't pull me in like some of the other books I have read recently (The Warded Man by Peter Brett and Iron Sunrise by Charles Stross to name just two recent reads that I would highly recommend). That said, Barbara Hambly is an excellent writer and I will certainly read the next book in the trilogy.
As far as Hambly’s books go, I didn’t love it to pieces like The Ladies of Mandrigyn, it doesn’t turn tropes on their heads like Dragonsbane, and I doubt the characters will prove as memorable to me as in either of those books, but it’s an exciting adventure nonetheless.The book has a bit of a slow start, as we meet two 20-somethings – Gil, a grad student, and Rudy, a motorcycle painter – living in southern California.
And their adventures are certainly gripping, though to me the book loses some emotional resonance in following primarily Gil in the beginning, but primarily Rudy toward the end; as the stakes ramp up, we’re spending more time with the character we know less well.
Barbara Hambly's books do things for me which very few fantasy authors do.
In The Time of the Dark Barbara is not afraid to look at the deeper side of human nature, philosophy, sophistry, and the meaning of civilization in terms which are easy to follow, but deeper than the Marianas Trench if you're willing to go where she leads you.
Another thing the Time of the Dark does which very few novels ever do for me any more is it surprises me.
How about that amazing advanced technological engineering?Truly, the only bad thing I can say about this book or about Barbara Hambly as an author is...
She, a chance-met biker named Rudy, and the greatest magician of the realm travel together to defeat the mysterious Dark beings that are rapidly destroying life and civilization as they know it.
I really liked how aware some of the characters were that their society was teetering on the brink of losing its knowledge, art and hard-won cohesion.
The more insightful were very afraid, not only of the Dark, but that they would be pushed back into the keeps that dotted the realm and stop prizing anything beyond survival.
I wasn’t interested in any of the main characters, and I found The Dark far too nebulous to be threatening.
Definitely enjoyed this. Slow start, but picked up in the middle. Moving on to the next instalment now. There's some mystery surrounding the creatures and the history of that world. I like Ingold - he's just like Gandalf. I keep hearing his lines in Sir Ian McKellen's voice. I like the scholarly woman becomes a sword-fighter, and the aimless bodywork painter (view spoiler)[becomes a mage (hide spoiler)]. If you watched the movie Pitch Black, these creatures seems to follow the bioraptors' description. Brrr! Creepy. Something is up with these guys, and I really want to find out.
The Time of the Dark has a general premise that I find intriguing. I like books whose plot features a person from modern day being transported to another world. Therefore, I snapped up this book. I was not disappointed. The Plot A graduate student named Gil (I think it's short for Gillian, so it's pronounced "Jill") dreams about a faraway place being attacked by indescribable and dark creatures.It turns out that this land actually exists in another universe and she and an inadvertent tag-along n
I like books whose plot features a person from modern day being transported to another world.
A graduate student named Gil (I think it's short for Gillian, so it's pronounced "Jill") dreams about a faraway place being attacked by indescribable and dark creatures.It turns out that this land actually exists in another universe and she and an inadvertent tag-along named Rudy, a mechanic, are transported by the wizard Ingold to the world of Darwath.
Rudy progressed with his skills a little more realistically, I think.As others here who have read the book, I found that the main antagonists, the creatures known only as The Dark, were a little too nebulous to be frightening.
The Time of the Dark is a good read if you're a fan of the genre.
Though not a time travel book, it has the feel of one.
The Dark has come and it is destroying humanity.Gil and Rudy are not always likeable characters.
I've seen other reviewers describe them as 'real'.
Well, real or not, I didn't care for them half the time.
Gil is an odd-duck and Rudy is selfish and shallow, his romance with Alde strange and unlikely.
The Dark, though scary in concept, seemed more powerful than it should be at times, and weaker at others.
I'm just not sure the author managed to garner enough of my interest for me to care.
This one was a free, promotional copy of the first in the Darwath Trilogy, in order to hype the "new" (at the time I got it, back in 1996) book in the same realm.
A fantasy, of a type I generally enjoy, wherein our real world in some way collides or connects with some other realm of possibility.
In this case, the realm of Darwath, a sort of parallel world.
It wasn't until the very end of the book that I felt, "Aha!
We're finally getting somewhere!" And, of course, that was the end.
Maybe...
unh, maybe not.
I just reread this after it has set on my shelf for a good 10 years since my last read and I was very pleased with how it has held up.
The story moves along crisply with little time wasted but it doesn't move so fast that you don't build an appreciation and empathy for the main characters.
The best thing though is Barbara Hambly writes with enough grit to satisfy the realist in me but she also brings in enough emotion and drama so the story elevates above the mundane drama of the daily lives of the characters.
they DON'T fall in love with the people they are "supposed" to, according to genre convention; they DON"T end up drawn to particular parts of life that characters like them always seem to in these books.
He's a very powerful wizard, but not "all powerful" (the magic system in the book doesn't allow for such a concept), but he's also a hell of a swords man.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who likes that sort of thing.
Years ago, for Christmas, I received a giant stack of fantasy books.
I was hooked on this book from the opening scene, and I've read all of them several times since.
It was one of the first stories I read that was fantasy but without the 'shiny epic' feel.
Hambly's fantasy world is built with an historian's sense of how a medieval/semi-feudal society would look with functioning magic in it.
In Hambly's world, women kick-butt, but they also get broken noses, sword calluses, scars, and muscled forearms from practicing.
But you have to read all three books to see her final showdown!
This is a great fantasy series that occasionally made me go oooooo over a turn of phrase or simile.
(they were THAT good).
But this is still a fun, scary fantasy read...just right for the beach or late at night on the sofa.
Lots of characters to love and to hate but all with good motivations for being the way they are.
(read the whole series and you will see what I mean.) Ingold is a cooler version of Gandalf and Gil becomes what all historians probably secretly wish they were.
(not saying here...just read it)
In fact I felt sympathetic towards them.The thing I like about the trilogy is the mystery involved; why have the Dark risen, why do they want Ingold, will memories reveal the secret to defeating them, and how are ancient magical artifacts used against them?I didn't mind the training in combat and magic.
The theory behind the magic wasn't bad, however the combat could have been better researched to seem more plausible and interesting.Alot of the political struggles create tension, however at times get a little old.
As with the rest of the books in the trilogy a reasonably rich world is created, but most of all the mysteries kept me turning pages.
Rereading it as an adult, it doesn't scare me quite as much, but it's still a wonderful series with well drawn characters including one of the best gandalf-type wizards in contemporary fantasy, all the better because he is NOT infallible.I think one of the best dynamics in this particular world is the uneasy relationship between the church and the wizard community and the way that the state falls between the two.
None of your Harry Potter-type back-room government shenanigans here as the wizards are considered to be the agents of the devil by the church, yet they are not condemned by the state.The Dark of the title are a protoplasmic being that have "risen" from their lairs.
It's a great world, a great cultural setting, a great set of supporting characters, a great Big Bad (although I have to confess I keep thinking the Dark Ones are just Nocturne from the game League of Legends).
Hambly absolutely nails the women characters in this book.
This book actually makes an effort to express the women in it as people (and it's kind of pathetic that as soon as I came across such a characterization I had to double-check the author info and see that it was a woman author).

I went looking for a 'better' or re-issued edition of the paperback and discovered that in March 2011, nearly all my favorite Barbara Hambly novels were released as ebooks! I'll be buying this one when I get home tonight. I'm a bit disappointed in the coverart for the ebook editions, but it's the content that I'm most interested in.
very good entry in the wizard and magic department.
As the moments, pass, she begins to feel like it’s not a dream at all—it’s a glimpse elsewhere.By day this woman is Gil, a serious academy on the PhD track who has dedicated her entire life to her passion for scholarship and medieval history.By night, well, she keeps dreaming, though the understanding that her dreams are real grows in certainty until Ingold—a man from her dreams—appears, flesh and blood, in her living room.He confirms that her dreams were in fact quite real, and explains that in his world they’re under siege from a powerful primordial enemy: the Dark Ones.
Anything that requires an organized body of knowledge will vanish—the universities, medicine, training in any form of the arts....Alwir and Govannin see it coming, and know that once they let their hold on centralized power slip, nothing can get it back.While I do not disagree with the first argument (petty parochialism of isolated society), I take issue with Decentralization.
For one thing, universities (for knowledge, medicine or training) are (were) usually isolated from main society anyway (and not integrated in the point in time, though the people who attend are expected to do so afterwards).And any argument that contends it is more important to maintain hold on power, and 'civilization', over simply saving human life (at such a junction as this, where people are dying) is simply unacceptable.
Though most of the book is set in an alternate world of kings, castles, wizards and creatures of the dark, it begins in modern day (well, modern to the time the book was published in the early 1980's) California, where Gil Patterson, a graduate student in history has been having dreams of a land far removed from her own.
They meet a young drifter, Rudy Solis and he and Gil are drawn back with Ingold to the wizard's world, where they will be trapped unless they and the survivors of the Prince's devastated realm can figure out a way to defeat the Dark.One of my favorite things about Ms. Hambly's books has always been the characters, and they don't disappoint here.
Where Barbara Hambly takes the adventure from there is a great ride.You wouldn't normally think of a comfort book as one where you are fleeing with refugees from amorphous enemies (the Dark) in a parallel universe, where it is always freezing and there is never enough food, where you may never get home again because that might let the Dark into your own world ...
This is a much loved story that I fell back into last night, thinking "why has it been so long?"Partly this is because I love Barbara Hambly's early books.
There was no reason for her to feel fear—she knew that the danger, the chaos, the blind, sickening nightmare terror that filled the screaming night were not real; this city with its dark, unfamiliar architecture, these fleeing crowds of panic-stricken men and women who shoved her aside, unseeing, were only the vivid dregs of an overloaded subconscious, wraiths that would melt with daylight.
None of them saw her, none of them stopped; they stumbled frantically up those vast steps of moonlit marble, through the dark arch of the gates at the top, and out into the clamoring streets of the stricken city beyond."Hambly, Barbara (2011-03-29).
Ah... The plot was pretty straightforward. What's evil is evil, and what's good, is good. That's the impression I got out of it, anyway. It was alright, but not exactly engaging.That don't mean it bad though. 8)
Interesting first of the series book. I especially liked how the wizard was flushed out - it gave me ideas on how my D&D character would act in certain circumstances. Overall little grim, but kinda nerdy like me.
When I read, I am always subconsciously editing the book, examining the writing for strengths and weaknesses, things I can use in my own writing.
Hambly is one of the few authors where I will pause and think to myself, "Wow, that was a really well-phrased sentence."The story itself is highly enjoyable high-fantasy end-of-the-world type stuff.
I wanted to put some qualifying statements here to show I'm being unbiased, but I really can't say anything bad about this book or its sequels (except Icefalcon's Quest, which is slightly worse than the original trilogy and the first post-trilogy sequel, partly due to Hambly giving in to her bizarre obsession with Native American type cultures instead of sticking with the characters she'd already established.)Time of the Dark is rad.
