https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292210.Free_Fall
Maybe I exaggerate a bit.
Although we did hang out with a uniformed cop one time.
I'm not even sure how that happened--who lets a uniformed cop hang out with campus kids in the dorm?
Clearly something untoward was happening in the L.A.P.D., as Crais elaborates.
It also didn't bother me that this felt almost entirely like a t.v. episode, because I happen to like over-the-top happy endings.
*Genre Rating Scale (Male Version).
(thanks Dan 2.0 for being the catalyst there)(scale edited to provide clarification for certain friends.
You know who you are (view spoiler)[Jilly.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I have to think that Robert Crais got a little freaked out during the O.J. Simpson murder trial when the allegations of racism against detective Mark Fuhrman came up because just a few years earlier he had written this book that had some corrupt LAPD cops including an officer named Mark Thurman.
Try not to imitate each other too much if you can help it.”Private investigator Elvis Cole is hired by a young woman named Jennifer Sheridan because she’s worried that her boyfriend, LAPD officer Mark Fuhrman Thurman, has been behaving oddly and she’s convinced that he’s gotten involved in something illegal.
A woman named Jennifer Sheridan hires Elvis Cole to watch her fiancee and find out what sort of trouble he's in.
Only he's in a lot more trouble than Jennifer or Elvis Cole bargained for...Robert Crais took me for another ride on this one.
Cole and Pike take on gang members and possibly dirty cops and wind up on the run.
Crais takes on controversial issues like police brutality, cover-ups, dirty cops, and life in South Central LA and manage to weave a very engaging tale.
2nd read - Jennifer contacts Cole about her boyfriend Mark, young policeman on a special team.
She thinks her long time honey is in trouble, but doesn't know why, how, or with who.
She's in love, and Elvis jumps on his white horse and finds bad apple cops in bed with L.A. gangsters.
Good action, with favorite enigma Pike pulling Cole's rear out of fires.1st reading - Elvis is hired by an in-love girlfriend of a L.A. area special group policeman.
She thinks he may be involved in some shady endeavors against his will.
Gotta love Elvis Cole!
In The Dresden Files Role-playing Game, one of these aspects is called, “Sucker for a Pretty Face.” One of my friends played a character with this weakness and he occasionally missed out on the excitement because his male gumshoe character was following some “red herring” or “dalliance” brought to his attention by a lovely lady.
It is a different ethnic group than Cole’s or Pike’s and several scenes in the story seem designed to remind us not to make assumptions about people on the basis of culture or race.
It turns out that the fiance is in a lot more trouble than his client or Elvis could possibly have imagined, and the result is another fast-paced tale that just dares the reader to be able to put it down.Within the confines of a typical violence-ridden Robert Crais plot, the author manages to tackle and address a number of controversial issues in Free Fall.
This is the fourth in Robert Crais' Elvis Cole series and it has been a fun read so far.
When I started this one, I was thinking, nothing ever really goes bad for these guys. Things generally just work out. Not so in this one. Couldn't put it down.
Action. Excitement. Corrupt cops. Murder, execution, vengeance, retribution. Oh, and a nice "feel good" ending. Book #4 down, moving chronologically backwards to #3. Great series!
Elvis Cole and Joe Pike take on the Eight-Deuce Gangster boys of South Central and a Rogue team of LAPD Robbery Homicide Officers who got themselves in a bad position and are trying to strong-arm their way out.
Crais once again captures the gritty feel of Los Angeles, this time in the graffiti tagged inner-city.
For an inside look at South Central Gang life, you might want to read Monster: The Autobiography of an L.A. Gang Member by Sanyika Shaku.
written by a member of the Eight Tray Crips.
I think Crais did a great job with this one.
Crais does it again. He is unstoppable. I wouldn't want it otherwise. Thanks Robert for another yarn well done...
I don't think I read this one the first time...if I did I forgot and I don't think I'd've forgotten this one. Great novel in the series. The friendship between these two men is amazing. I also love cat...Elvis's cat that never seems to have a name, but seems to love Elvis and Pike...if no one else! Great story as always.
This series just gets better and better. In this one Cole finds himself tangling with a group of corrupt cops. He’s funny and likable as always and I like the writing enough to not roll my eyes when Pike pulls his ass out of the fire for the hundredth time.
L.A. Requim, which is the 8th Elvis Cole novel, is what landed him as an author that defied all genres and in it outsurpassed even the legendary Ross Macdonald.Enough about Crais, the guy's good.
Use him too much and you wonder why he isn't the main character (we know Crais has struggled with this as he produced 4 separate novels featuring Pike as the hero); use him too little and you start wondering why the big guns aren't being pulled out by Elvis.
We are never more beautiful than when we are burning.Like I said, it really came together following the publication of his 8th Elvis Cole novel.
Five minutes after his new client leaves the office, Cole and his partner, the enigmatic Joe Pike, are hip-deep in a deadly situation as they plummet into a world of South Central gangs, corrupt cops and conspiracies of silence.
And before long, every cop in the LAPD is gunning for a pair of armed and dangerous killers - Cole and Pike.In this 4th instalment of Crais’s series with Elvis Cole and his enigmatic sidekick Joe Pike, the dynamic duo cross swords with an elite unit of the LAPD who have crossed the line.
There are writers who are masters of dialog, sneer, attitude and humor, best among them Elmore Leonard, Robert B. Parker, and Robert Crais. Free Fall does the LA gang 'hood, bad cops and pure love unstintingly, but with a surprisingly delicate touch.
Except for one major unbelievable plotting error at the end, this is a great novel.The action starts right away when young, beautiful and innocent Jennifer Sheridan comes into Cole's office and asks for his help.
Her boyfriend, officer Mark Thurman, has changes the last few months, and Jennifer knows something is wrong.
And of course, Joe Pike is in the middle of all of it too.The only downsides are that not much happens in the way of developing Cole or Pike as a character.
And there's the above mentioned plot point that is explained away in a sentence and should have never happened because it isn't in sync with the characters.
Free Fall does a good job of continuing the stories of Elvis Cole and Joe Pike by adding a good mix of action, mystery, and humor.
Cole and Pike ponder their actions more in this book and deal with the troubles of the case in a more realistic manner than the first three books.
Descriptions of the landscape and neighborhoods add to this strength while the gang characters and abusive cops reflect the current events of the 1990s.Free Fall is a solid mystery and a great part of the Elvis Cole series.
Elvis Cole is not Spenser - but who is?
In the past Robert Crais has been a respected puveyor of crime novels in the Robert B Parker genre; not as good but good enough.
Free Fall is a major disappointment.Characterisation is the problem.
Jennifer, the young woman who becomes Cole's client, is one-dimensional.
Race and drugs are nothing new in crime novels and this one adds little.Plotting is lazy.
Note the way Pike abandons a vital guardianship late in the story and then turns up again when most needed - neither event is explained.One hopes that no reader will first encounter Crais through Free Fall.
Everytime time I read an Elvis Cole story, I think "Gosh, this is good stuff"!
I just love Elvis Cole immensely!
I love his humor, his cool and his goodness.I finished this story in one day, it was so enjoyful, suspenseful and entertaining.
Again in this book Elvis meeting with the new client at the beginning of the story is just too funny.
I loved this story from beginning to end and since I have always been a big fan of the tv-show "The Shield" I have to admit that the angle of a "corrupt" L.A.'s elite REACT crime-prevention squad really captivated me.
I always enjoy Elvis Cole. He's my kind of detective: adventuresome, always (or most of the time) comes out on top and has a great sense of humor. Pike is is robotic alter-ego. This story is no exception. Great lines, a bit of heart and a tender spot for women.
I'm enjoying this series a lot, and this one appeals for the way that a single bad choice can cascade down to a widespread disaster, particularly if you opt to try to shore up that bad choice.
Started a little slow (that's why 4 not 5) but packs a major wallop by the end.
More wisecracking from Elvis Cole - well-plotted, LA in the tension after Rodney King, a good story
Good Elvis Cole novel where he starts off on a simple "find out what's wrong with my boyfriend that he won't tell me" case, and ends up accused of murder and dealing with dirty cops.
Gang Bangers!   Written by Robert Crais, and published by Bantam Books, Random House in 1993, this book is the fourth of the author’s series of novels about a hard-bitten, wise-cracking Hollywood private detective named Elvis Cole. Cole is a tough Vietnam Veteran with expertise in the Martial Arts. His partner is Joe Pike, a shadowy former Special Operator in ‘Nam who met Cole after both of them had been discharged from the military. This time, Elvis gets involved with a bunch of gang bangers
Written by Robert Crais, and published by Bantam Books, Random House in 1993, this book is the fourth of the author’s series of novels about a hard-bitten, wise-cracking Hollywood private detective named Elvis Cole.
It is as much danger as he and Joe Pike have faced in any of the novels published to-date.
As always, the stories are chockablock with gritty realism, and the good guys don’t always come out on top.
In fact, some of the good guys don’t come out at all.
The scene is set in South Central LA, a place ruled by street gangs.
It doesn't take long until Elvis gets a look at what can go wrong in an organization like the LAPD, even as it tries to recover from the Rodney King incident and the ensuing riots.The problem with this one for me is this Giant Criminal Act (henceforth: GCA) that Joe and Elvis perpetrate.
Mostly, the strength of the book comes from some of the characters we meet for the first time: Rusty Swetaggen, Elvis' former client, seems like a nice guy, a good reminder that sometimes Elvis has cases that don't end in gunfights.
Jennifer Sheridan is married to a newly minted LA cop who she loves dearly.
And he loves her.
But Jennifer knows that something is wrong.
And she wants Elvis Cole to find out what it is.
She has no money, no evidence...
but Cole can't say no...There is a lot wrong.
and Cole and Pike are set up to take the fall for a lot of it...One BIG plot hole, but an entertaining page turner...This was a Lutrecia book, and book #39 on our 2018 Read-aloud.We are having a hard time getting our hands on a copy of the next book VOODOO RIVER.
3.5 stars. It started a bit slow, the first third or so was mostly about Cole driving around, asking questions. But then Pike came in, joining the investigation, and it really got going. I wasn't exactly fond of Cole's client at first, Jennifer, she seemed like your typical damsel in distress, but that girl turned out to have a core of steel. A very good book.
Action packed detective novel. Elvis Cole takes the case of a young woman afraid that her boyfriend, a decorated LA cop, is into something bad. Soon Elvis and his partner Joe Pike are up to their ears in bad cops, murders and gangs and find themselves set-up and on the run from the police. Robeert Crais never fails to bring the characters, the action and the humor.
