https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7815.The_Year_of_Magical_Thinking
I’m the one that says ’Seriously?’ when being told of some tragic event--like someone would actually make up the horrific thing.
I’m the one that views the whole process of death--the telling, the grieving, the service of any kind, the ’after’-- as playing out like I’m in a soap opera bubble.
I think it began in college…being forced to read Why I Write and On Keeping a Notebook.
I’m remembering in distorted ways… did that really happen or is my head just trying to make me believe… am I replaying the events because I’m looking for clues?Maurice is dead.
It is the reason I instituted my "100 pages" policy (if it's not promising 100 pages in, I will no longer waste my time on it).
So within the 100 pages I did read, all I got from Didion was that she and her husband used to live a fabulous life and they know a lot of famous people.
She spoke of the '60s as a time when "everyone" was flying from LA to San Francisco for dinner.
I found only brief spots of actual grief for Didion's husband and daughter, but they weren't enough to overpower my loathing for the author and her self-importance.
Didion writes this about death after a long illness (experienced with others in her life):  In each of those cases the phrase, "after a long illness" would have seemed to apply, trailing its misleading suggestion of release, relief, resolution.
When she died, even though I saw it coming, it was there, just as Didion says, the swift empty loss.She writes about her own personal grieving process, her struggles to resolve his death in her mind.
Hospice calling on my birthday to see how I am holding up, instead of a call from her, singing "Happy Birthday" off key.Swift empty loss.In one part of the book Didion writes of getting rid of clothing that belonged to her husband.
“It occurs to me that we allow ourselves to imagine only such messages as we need to survive.” ― Joan Didion, The Year of Magical ThinkingIn four days it will be one year since my father-in-law died in an accidental shooting.
I've watched my mother-in-law struggle with the sad death and absence of her husband.
I've watched my sister-in-law and her kids struggle with the death of their husband and father.
When my father-in-law died I was reading Falconer.
I'm no Joan Didion and my relationship with both my father-in-law and my brother are mine.
Hated it, hated it, hated it- but kept reading with the hope that all my pain and suffering would somehow be worth it in the end.
It wasn't.
The same self-pitying, whiney, depressing, self-important sentiments are basically repeated over and over again only with different words.
Joan Didion can obviously write well, but she should have left this cathartic piece in her closet.
And I'm not averse to reading novels that deal with grief.
This one was just way too self-indulgent and redundant for me.
And Didion's pervasive name-dropping and repeated descriptions of her wealth and fame just made me hate the book even more.
This is a hard book for me to review, as I know my own personal experience will be foremost.
So yes, this book is about grief and loss.
While everyone responds to grief differently, there are some general "truisms." One's that Didion has found not only from personal experience, but research as well.
I find it interesting that this is the only piece I found missing from parts of her memoir.In much of this book she has written more of the facts of her experience than her feelings.
I cannot help but feel Didion helped pave the way for many authors to reveal deeper emotions.
I have only experienced the death of a few friends and my grandparents, so I cannot say that the grief that Joan Didion describes has ever been my own.
However, her loss of her husband John from a sudden heart attack while simultaneously her daughter Quintana was fighting for her life talked to me very deeply.
I think what moved me the most was the phrase her husband had said to his daughter, "I love you more than even one more say" that Audrey Hepburn says to Sean Connery in Robin and Marian.
For anyone dealing with loss and bereavement, this is a very cleansing read.
And maybe she does name drop the names of expensive hotels and restaurants she normally at in with her John Gregory Dunne, and maybe some people would rather have elaborate descriptions of the decor of these places then her just saying she ate there, or details about what so-and-so said at her husbands funeral, and not just that he or she spoke at it.
But that's missing the point and if she had done that I would have been or so happy because I'd be writing a review right now about the banality of memoirs and their narcissistic egoism that only serves to make the author and publisher some dollars.
Didion e Dunne, moglie e marito, insieme scrissero la sceneggiatura di ‘Panico a Needle Park’, ‘È nata una stella’, ‘L’assoluzione’.Poi, una sera, in un attimo, patatrac, lui se ne va: improvvisamente smette di parlare, non risponde a una domanda di lei, cade per terra ed è già morto.[La figlia da qualche giorno è ricoverata in terapia intensiva, inizio di una lunga malattia che la vedrà in ospedale per mesi, morire un anno e mezzo dopo].Joan inizia a leggere qualsiasi cosa che riesca a trovare sulla morte: medicina, psicanalisi, psichiatria, scienze naturali, storia delle culture, letteratura, mitologia…Questo libro è ovviamente il tentativo di Didion di elaborare il suo lutto, di affrontare assenza e perdita del marito.
To call Joan Didion cold or even heartless - true as it may be in the light of The Year of Magical Thinking, this monument to the analytical dissection of grief - is itself a cold and heartless condemnation.
It is as if she has educated herself above emotion.
In this case, we see a mind so removed from the everyday reality of man as to answer "a motherless child" instead of "a nut" when asked to fill in the blank for "Sometimes you feel like ____." The result, when pushed to produce a book about grieving for loved ones, is an academic's deconstruction.
Are the critics saying there’s only one way to grieve, and Joan Didion is doing it wrong?
Or that there’s only one way to write about grieving, and Joan Didion is doing that wrong?If you’ve ever grieved the loss of anyone, I don’t see how you can hold either of these opinions.
And so, Joan Didion takes a cab home from the hospital after the death of her husband John, and her first thought is that she really needs to discuss the situation with John.
Joan Didion's daughter Quintana fell gravely ill and was hospitalized with a serious infection.
Only weeks later, Joan's husband, John Dunne, was speaking with her from their living room after visiting their daughter in the hospital, stopped mid-sentence and keeled over dead on the floor of a massive coronary.
Instead, Didion did a lot of research on grief and puts many of her findings in the book.
I wanted her to be angry at God and everyone for putting her in this terrible situation with her husband's death and her daughter's serious illnesses.
Basically, megapersonal, deep, sad stuff revealed to us...
Some grief SHOULD be shared...
I guess it must this: to ultimately give it meaning: to cash in, when the light of life has gone out.Let a prose powerhouse not go gently into the night.
Except for the type of glamorous life shared by the married writers--it is shown off in every single page.
The last time I was affected this much by the mere privilege of another unfortunate soul was in "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly." Fabulousness gets all spoiled & stuff, gets marred by the whims of fate, etc...Affluenza truly is killer.
the question of self-pity."i picked up this book and read it knowing nothing more than those two short lines.
didion's memoir records her thoughts, feelings and actions during the year following her husband's death and her daughter's near-death hospitalizations (i learned later that after the book was published her daughter did die, a fact which is incorporated into the broadway play adaptation).
instead, the memoir feels like a combination of reading didion's diary and also following her every action.
this won't teach you how to heal but it may make you feel less alone and less crazy when life as you know it ends and you begin that insane plunge into the question of self-pity.
Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the dailiness of life. Virtually everyone who has ever experienced grief mentions this phenomenon of “waves”. I cannot remember when I was last so moved by a book. It covers a sad subject, that of death with the subsequent grief and mourning periods but it amazed me with its lucidity of a woman who wrote this book a year after her husband’s dea
It covers a sad subject, that of death with the subsequent grief and mourning periods but it amazed me with its lucidity of a woman who wrote this book a year after her husband’s death.
And this is where Joan Didion magnificently displays her thoughts on how she felt when her husband John of nearly forty years died of a massive heart attack whilst they were having dinner in New York.
This book was published in 2005, a year after her husband’s death and I hope that she has come to terms with this and is fine.
And what was Joan going to do with her life.
And the way that Didion structures her story allows her to think she is grieving for her husband, when, in reality, she is telling their story to mask the fact that she is scared shitless about losing her daughter.
But, even without ever knowing this aspect of her life, we will all more than likely at some point fear for our child, which is the bridge that connects us to Didion.
You see, Didion was able to deal with her husband’s death; what she was unable to deal with was the possibility of losing her child.
If I had to describe this book with one word, it would have to be 'impactful'. If you only read one book this year, read this book!
Ever incisive, as well as ever restrained, Didion examines with great care the events of her daily life during the year after her husband’s death.
Out of a vast array of medical literature, both contemporary and traditional, she composes what amounts to be a straightforward but powerful argument: American society wrongly compels its members to gloss over the shock of a loved one’s death and deny or conceal the lingering pain of their loss.
Both affirm the possibility of thoughtfully confronting and living with the fact of death, acknowledging its pain without attempting to will it away.
The thought of it; we suppress it, bury it just out of view of our consciousness, but we know it's there, that we may have to face it head on someday.That's what Joan Didion does in this book when she is faced with her husbands sudden death.
This is how she existed, how she went about surviving the first year after his death.
It's an analysis, a confession even, of what she experienced, what she thought, and how she eventually was able to accept the reality.
Couldn't finish -- too sad. I know, I know, we all die. But this is where I could have used a lot more breast beating, more not so clinical stuff. This is a good argument for why fiction is essential, how it gives context & color...
There was a similar heartbreaking scene in "Mix Tape," when Rob Sheffield unplugs the landline telephone and carries it around with him, under the delusion that his wife (who died the previous day) is simply lost and will try to call him -- even though the phone isn't plugged in.
The point is that no amount of reading or planning can prepare you for the time when "you sit down to dinner, and life as you know it ends." But these books will remind me to be more gentle with myself, and others, when a dark day comes and we find ourselves carrying around an unplugged telephone.
Not accidentally: Didion goes out of her way to cite research on the effects of grief.
You can feel her standing back from it, trying desperately to understand it.
At times I felt like the tragedy here wasn't the loss of love, but the loss of habit.But habit is life, and what Didion is trying to describe is the loss of her life as she knew it.
My wife said it well: About Alice is about love, she said; Year of Magical Thinking is about loss.
Didion refuses to go through the motions; she doesn't engage in the histrionics we sortof expect.
She does, on the other hand, also try to universalize it by citing experts/psychological studies on the grieving process and juxtaposing the information with her own experience, almost as if to say, “This happens to everyone, even Joan Fucking Didion .” It’s certainly interesting to think that this state of grief-stricken irrationality is so commonplace as to be almost scientifically quantifiable, although I’m taking her word for it.
The narrative itself seems somewhat disjointed at parts, with Didion repeating herself or not making herself entirely clear, but I think that’s intentional, to better bring the reader into line with her state of mind at the time.Thereupon sitteth, on an ostentatious, jewel-encrusted throne, my problem with the book, I think.
In the past, I loved Didion because she was a great stylist and a brilliant structuralist.
The title essay of The White Album is probably the best-written essay of all time in my book, followed by F.
The White Album and Slouching toward Bethlehem are stunning collections.However, as much as it pains me to say it, her powers are not evident in this book.
Bald statement, lazy metaphor, and sequence instead of artful arrangement are the rule here, and I hope it is merely due to her grief, and not due to the fall one of the great prose stylists of the past 40 years.
This book of nonfiction ..
a sort of widow grief memoir..
written by a living legend who is a master narrative teller.The losing of her husband the writer John Gregory Dunne over dinner, a heart attack..
In this book Joan focuses more on John and his passing and concept of griefHow grief is fluidWaves Eb and flow The loss of a husband ...
some would say she is cold hearted and not crying buckets If you are looking for a pure tearjerker this book is not for you ..
it’s like grief this book fluid ...
ebbs and flow..
just like life
I am absolutely convinced that the only reason Didion’s book received such notably positive press was because she and her husband were good friends with all these reviewers and the rest of the literary community, having bonded with these people at dinner parties on the Upper East Side in smoking jackets with martinis and cigars; Didion and Dunne were part of the NYC writing establishment Didion’s prose throughout is tight and reminiscent of early Vonnegut (his self-referencing style, not his humor), but there is an emotional distance in her writing.
I picked up The Year of Magical thinking at a used book sale, after hearing her name thrown around in literary circles and not knowing anything about her.
At this moment I'm only on page 76 and I don't know if I'll bother trying to make it to page 77 as the pretension is becoming unbearable.The book is a series of essays she wrote after the death of her husband to whom she was married for 40 years.
Didion had her husband for 40 years!
I don't even know what a daube or an albóndiga is and Didion repulses me to such an extent that I don't have any interest in finding out, either.
I don't think it's Joan Didion's fault that my reaction to this book was to question and/or deride several facets of my life: should I be closer to my husband, like the author?
Why didn't I keep a real journal?
Why were the sporadic sentences in my sad attempt a journal so poorly written?
Why don't I have a kitchen notebook to write down my meals like Joan Didion?
Shouldn't I be keeping better notes on the goings-on of my life?
I suppose even though it's not Joan Didion's fault I still blame her a little bit.
I knew from an interview with Didion on Fresh Air that the book was written in the year that followed the death of her husband - A year she spent mostly in hospitals at her adult daughter's bedside.
To explore her illogical behaviors (like keeping her husbands shoes even after giving up the rest of his clothes) and her increasingly tenuous grasp on the present (much of the book is expository, with Didion letting present details lead her back to various experiences that she analyzes and re-analyzes with the detriment of hindsight) is her way of keeping afloat.
I find it very hard to rate someone's grief and story of their year since the loss of a loved one (her husband).
Joan Didion's memoir opens with her daughter being ill with pneumonia and being in the hospital.
Didon goes into detail about her year following her husband's death.
Didion goes back and forth telling us about her marriage, the ceremony, their vacations, events with friends, etc.
How much or how little money we have does not determine how deeply we feel or how much we grieve.
the book would be more dramatic...but perhaps that is too personal for Didion and everyone grieves in his/her own way.
