https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338090.Queen_Elizabeth_I
No - not QE2, but the first Elizabeth.
I thought in the 60th year of QE2's reign I ought to fill in the massive gaps in my knowledge of England's history, particularly the first Elizabeth.
Sarah recommended this book, which she remembered from he "A" levels.
It is a magnificent piece of factual story-telling - with no tedious academic references (although Neale was a Professor of English History at University College, London).
It is a very modern historical narrative, told with an eloquence which matches Sharma at his best, but drawing on a vocabulary more sparkling, gilded and colourful than you would ever find in mainstream culture today.
This is the biography, which I read as a young woman (maybe early 20's), that spurred my interest in history generally and English history, specifically. Intriguing read.
However, Henry VIII did give England something new to fight over, religion, and his second daughter would strike a victory to put Protestantism in place as England's religion and Catholicism was sent on the defensive.It did not look like she would be the champion in the early days.
Mary I would try to restore the Catholic faith to England and Elizabeth would have to be at her most cunning to survive her sister's reign as the Queen of England.
And throughout Christendom, Catholic and Protestant had been praying, hoping, fearing for champions of their faith." (p.310)Elizabeth's reputation was probably equal to both her father's and her famous ancestor King Edward III.
Neale's famous old (1934) biography of Elizabeth is very readable, lucidly untangling the complex court intrigue of her reign and the constantly shifting relationships between her and her fellow rulers; but I closed the book with a sigh of relief, feeling I had escaped an airless milieu populated exclusively by wealthy schemers and pious thugs.This is very emphatically an old-school political history focussed on the nobility and monarchy, and the vast bulk of Elizabeth's subjects have little role in the narrative apart from occasionally cheering her at public appearances.
A good survey of the life of Elizabeth I, all the major highs and lows, in-depth analysis of the political forces of the time. It's a bit short on psychological analysis of the inner life of Elizabeth I, though.
Her decision not to marry, in spite of tremendous pressure, is another reason why her reign was success.
All this is due to being surrounded to highly dedicated courtiers who believed in her right to the crown and the religion that she that promised to uphold.A few years ago, as part of book club assignment, I read "Elizabeth I CEO: Strategic Lessons from the Leader Who Built an Empire." There are reason why books or subjects should be read in order.
Had I read "Queen Elizabeth I," the CEO book probably would have been a more interesting read.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1265072.html[return][return]Alas, I was thoroughly spoiled for this by reading David Starkey and Alison Weir on the same subject last year. Though irritated by the writing style I kept hoping that at least I would learn something new; but when I had finished the first quarter of the book without finding anything that had not been covered better by either Starkey or Weir, I decided not to bother with any more.
Neale does an excellent job portraying Queen Elizabeth I as an incredible monarch, adored by her people. This is one of the best biographies that I have ever read. It was easy to follow and well-written. The author portrays how wise the queen was and how amazing her speaking ability was. She was able to deal with multiple attempts on her life and multiple attempts at her crown. She was graceful. I would highly recommend this to all of those who love history or just those who love a good story about an incredible woman.
You really do pay attention to dramatizations of the time period and see where all the inconsistencies are. Read "Her Majesty's Spymaster" if you want to know more about Walsingham's role in Elizabeth's reign and in Mary Queen of Scots' treachery.
Finishing this work, I feel that I know nothing more about the queen than I knew before I read it. It was a very boring work. The info about the sister and cousin was more interesting than that about Elizabeth.
Originally published in 1933, my edition is 1998 re-issue. It is considered the definitive biography of E I.
I read this for my secondary tutorial at Worcester College, Oxford (Culture, Politics, and Society in England: 1558-1660). It was a great read.
Well-written, thorough, and engaging. I enjoyed it immensely.
very informative, well written
