https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36692478-there-there
"Don't ever let anyone tell you what being Indian means. Too many of us died to get just a little bit of us here, right now, right in this kitchen." Orange's ambitious debut captures the experience of modern "urban Indians" through constantly shifting third person perspectives, ultimately showing that Native Americans are not a monolith, not a stereotype, not united under a single identity. The author takes a number of risks, and yet they all work to create a book of such extreme power that it'
Orange's ambitious debut captures the experience of modern "urban Indians" through constantly shifting third person perspectives, ultimately showing that Native Americans are not a monolith, not a stereotype, not united under a single identity.
He has somehow written a book where every chapter is from a different point of view and yet every single character's voice is unique and engaging.The characters and stories here are not the stereotypes most non-native Americans are familiar with.
This is an ambitious novel told in stories about different Indians in Oakland whose lives converge at a Pow Wow. It took me a long time to get into the novel. When the threads start to come together the novel picks up. There is some great writing throughout. But still... something is missing here. Something isn’t quite working for me. But the ambition and the last lines do a lot to elevate this. Look forward to seeing more from the author.
2018 National Book Award Longlist....
Absolutely phenomenal!!!!!“There There” is a non-stop pace story...
COULD NOT PUT THIS DOWN....The stories in here are gut wrenching *intimate* about dislocation-identify-violence -loss-hope-and power.
“We have been defined by everyone else and continue to be slandered despite easy-to-look-up-Internet-facts about realities of our histories and current state as a people”.
The despair and beauty in Tommy Orange’s debut novel entwined the history of a nation and indigenous community in Oakland, Calif.
Incredible characters.Dialogue with feelings.Warmth, pride, sediments for Oakland-raised Tommy Orange!
Congratulations to him!!!He knocked the ball out of the park with this outstanding novel!!!!
For one thing, There, There is set in Oakland, where I lived for most of the 90s, and reading it brought back a lot of memories.
We follow their interconnected lives as they prepare for the first Big Oakland Pow Wow. They are drawn there for many different reasons -- to reconnect, to make money, to dance, to record stories.
Unfortunately, a few of them are planning to rob the Pow Wow. Orange provides deft, beautifully crafted portraits of their lives, so by the time the hold-up come and (SPOILER) the heist does not go as planned, we care about how all of them will fare.
Tommy Orange’s There There is, hands down, my favourite novel of the year thus far.*If you came here looking for a scale-tipping review, look no further.
You wouldn’t be remiss if you’re thinking of Diaz, Mitchell, or Chabon.Orange handles the Native American struggle in Oakland with a complexity that displays an incredible amount of thought, anguish, and introspection.
This book is so expansive, so filled with beautiful voices and unique writing styles that the mind reels at what Orange could have possibly held back.
There There is a book that is going to stick with me for years to come.*Though I've read some novels since There There that have come close!
The description had me thinking I’d be reading about Native Americans of the present day, the urban Indian and that’s true BUT don’t think for a minute that Tommy Orange is going to be gentle with you and allow you to ignore the past.
We find hope in Orvil Red Feather who just wants to go to the Powwow to dance, to be a part of his past, of which he knows little about.
I loved that Opal Viola Victoria Bear Shield’s mother tells her that she “shouldn’t ever not tell our stories.” I love that Tommy Orange took that advice.
How could I give this poetic tapestry of cultural politics any fewer than 5 stars?"She told me the world was made of stories, nothing else, just stories, and stories about stories."That's exactly what There There consists of: the abridged life timelines of a diverse yet interwoven cast of characters - young and old, good and bad, but all Native American.
Let me just say that it is one of the most concise, expertly-written scenes of poetic drama that I've ever read."Does what we try most to avoid come after us because we paid too much attention to it with our worry?"As the novel moves forward, we learn how each of these characters is connected, whether by motive, experience, or family itself.
Dene Oxedene, putting his life back together after his uncle's death, wins a grant, allowing him to video stories from those attending the Oakland Pow Wow. In alternating voices we follow the lives and stories of twelve different characters, many who have fallen on hard times of one kind or another.
This is in most cases through no fault of their own, but it is clear that this loss of culture has caused them to never feel as if they belong, even in their own country.
All are heading to the Pow Wow in Oakland, but for different reasons.
A collection of interrelated stories set in Oakland, California, There There charts the inner lives of twelve Native Americans as they prepare for the impending Big Oakland Powwow.
Orange hops from perspective to perspective, weaving together past and present and exploring what life in Oakland means to each Native character.
The best of the chapters are highly affecting, and infuse great storytelling with political purpose; they are fast moving and full of well-drawn characters.
The book unfortunately declines in quality when, near the middle of the plot, Orange tries to overlap his characters' disparate lives.
I happen to really adore short stories that connect to a greater whole – and the first occurence of each person could stand on its own in a way that I found highly impressive.The voices are distinct and different, in tone and narrative choice, in the way their language flows and in the metaphors they use – I found the way Tommy Orange juggles these different styles impressive without being just that.
Tommy Orange shows a great tenderness for his characters in all their flaws (and there are plenty).The book is funny and sad and poignant and just so so so well done.
I will be reading anything Tommy Orange decides to write next.You can find this review and other thoughts on books on my blog.
Fabulous descriptive writing with lots of relatable insights into modern life.
I liked its anger and humour a lot.
There was a documentary on the BBC a while back that followed a few Indians who are on their way to protest at Standing Rock.
They were all compelling individuals and I wanted more.
The thing was though, the documentary focused on only four or five individuals and all had the space to strike up an intimacy with the viewer.
As creative writing this was excellent; as a novel I think it would have been more successful had he cut the number of the characters.
This is one of those books that you're simultaneously dying to finish yet don't ever want to finish.
Orange paints a vivid picture in short chapters through different points of view as the story unfolds.
The powwow becomes the centerpiece of the story with the dozen or so characters eventually heading toward it.
The characters and their storylines drew me in and made me care, though not all are likable.
Powerful novel of the Urban Indians’ identity, family, loss, and strength.
Found myself talking about it with family and friends who have not read the book.
Toward the end of Tommy Orange’s devastating debut novel, a 4-year-old Native American boy keeps asking his grandma: “What are we?
What are we?”The boy has no way of knowing, but that’s a blood-soaked question that Western invaders have made Indians ask themselves for centuries.
This is a work of fiction, but Orange opens with a white-hot essay.
With the glide of a masterful stand-up comic and the depth of a seasoned historian, Orange rifles through our national storehouse of atrocities and slurs, alluding to figures from Col. John Chivington to.
However I am not judging the book on its importance but on how it came across and affected me and unfortunately from page one I didn't connect or engage with either the story or the characters.There There tells the story of twelve characters, Urban Indians living in Oakland, California, who converge and collide on one fateful day.
The structure of the book didn't work for me and I failed to connect with the stories or the characters as there were so many of them.
Powerful, heartbreaking, and absolutely necessary. In the age of #blacklivesmatter and #metoo, we cannot forget about the Native American population who have been criminally ignored. There There is specifically about the people considered 'Urban Indians': the generation born in the city as a result of both voluntary and involuntary relocation of their ancestors (Indian Relocation Act/Indian Termination Policy). “Plenty of us are urban now. If not because we live in cities, then because we live o
There There is specifically about the people considered 'Urban Indians': the generation born in the city as a result of both voluntary and involuntary relocation of their ancestors (Indian Relocation Act/Indian Termination Policy).
If not because we live in cities, then because we live on the internet.
An apple is red on the outside and white on the inside.
Tommy Orange has a voice that you can't help but open your heart to because everything about it is real: a history of genocide and the current condition of a struggling people, but not without smile-worthy moments of humor and beauty.
I think the characters in this book would say it differently, that there is indeed something in Oakland, home of the fictional Big Oakland Powwow with which it concludes.Distinct Indian voices tell a story about their lives, whatever they want to tell and not necessarily to an immediate point.
One of those insights helped me with a phenomenon I have never understood.
When he wasn’t drinking, the uncle was full of interesting stories and was a pleasure to be around.
One day the uncle told the boy he was dying and was visiting people he knew and liked before his time was done.
I been drinking a long time.
It takes concepts other authors have pulled off in the past, throws them all out there together and hopes for the best.
It just felt like good ideas that didn’t have enough time to simmer.
Good ideas that were pulled taken out of the oven a little early so they were still too doughy in the middle.
Ideas that everyone reads about together and either goes all in or wonders what they missed.
Luckily, it’s a quick read, and maybe next time Orange will have some time to really flesh things out a little more and really pull me into the world he’s building and the story he wants to tell.
I'm a closet Choctaw (meaning only that I am an enrolled member of the tribe, but not something I broadcast in my everyday life) and I was beyond excited to read a modern Indian story.
Yes, as Orange points out, we refer to ourselves as Indian.
The story is set in Oakland where the characters are all planning to converge upon the annual powwow.
The Big Oakland Powwow is also where Tony Loneman plans to carry out a robbery.
This is the real story of real Indians in the very real 21st Century.
Yes, the story is violent, but life in our gun-toting America is violent.
Wow wow wow
In these connected stories of Native Americans (Orange, like many Natives uses the term "Indian" throughout the book) living in Oakland, reservation life is for most not even a distant memory but a place they have never seen or known.
I sped through chapters, unable to put it down, even though each chapter has the kind of self-contained perfection usually reserved for short stories.A few practical notes for readers: Near the end I had trouble remembering exactly how characters were connected.
” Sing itHey boy, give your dreams a restIf you're tired of searching this is where it endsThere's nothing left to loseNothing to protestLearn to love your anger nowAnger here is all you possess.Welcome to the edge.“Below the towers of the citadelSeems someone overlooked the cost.Forgotten soldier of ParadiseNow Paradise is lost.Recognition never realizedSalvation lost among the crowdSo tell me here beside the sterile seaWhere is your nation now?” --The Edge of America, Duran Duran, Songwriters:
The title of this book comes from, in part, a quote from Gertrude Stein’s ‘Everybody’s Autobiography’ where she shared her feelings about her hometown of Oakland, “talking about how the place where she’d grown up in Oakland had changed so much, that so much development had happened there, that the there of her childhood, the there there, was gone, there was no there there anymore.”While the main focus is on their lives today, there is a strong sense of how the past has shaped the present time, their “now” into a different now, a different vision of what America looks like from their eyes, what their day-to-day lives look like through their eyes, these people - Dene Oxedene, Orvil Red Feather, Opal Viola Victoria Bear Shield, Jacquie Red Feather, Tony Loneman, Edwin Black, Bill Davis, Calvin Johnson, Octavio Gomez, Daniel Gonzales, Blue, Thomas Frank, and Loother and Lony.
One character in the book also continues the documentary film project that his late uncle had started which aims to tell the stories of urban Native Americans in order to improve representation and generate awareness - which is exactly what Tommy Orange does with his book (with fictional means, but rooted in his own experiences).
I was completely absorbed by this novel, I wanted to learn more, to hear more from these characters - it's not only the the importance of the subject matter, this book is a true joy to read it and utterly intriguing.
The novel is exceptional although it is very depressing. I'm not surprised There There has provoked so much discussion with regard to the plight of urban Native Americans trying to rediscover and understand their identity. There There is a definite food for thought!
So much sorrow as the characters in There There seek connection and struggle with identity…an honest and important debut!Author Tommy Orange gives us a window into Native American Indian suffering and challenges with skill.
We follow more than a dozen characters, hearing their stories as they prepare to attend a major Pow Wow, a coming together of Natives from all over.
He plans to meet him at the Pow Wow.Everyone is searching for their history, a means to an end and connection while battling despair, addiction, weight issues and social challenges.
“Some of us got this feeling stuck inside, all the time, like we’ve done something wrong.
Also, even though I was taking notes, by the end of this relatively short novel (294 pages), I couldn’t remember who all the characters were.
The book reminded me of Yaa Gyasi’s wonderful work, Homegoing, which also has many characters connected over time, but each chapter in that book was more like a short story, giving you the time to really care about the protagonist and see the world from his or her perspective.
Because Native Americans [have] been defined by everyone else and continue to be slandered despite easy-to-look-up-on-the-internet facts about the realities of our histories and current state as a people.The story centers around a powwow that will take place in Oakland.
Her mother reminds them before she dies of cancer to to honor them by living right, by telling your stories.Opal's grandson, who's really her great-nephew will go to the powwow to dance wearing the regalia he found in Opal's closet.Edwin Black is half white and half Native American.
If a week ago you’d told me I’d read a novel better than Richard Powers’ The Overstory this year, I’d have said I was doubtful.
If you’d told me it would be a debut novel, I’d have said you were out of your mind.
Nevertheless, here I am reading a book for a second time in two days and the only word I can come up with is flawless.Tommy Orange’s There There lives up to every bit of the hype.
I haven’t read a debut novel that I thought should win the National Book Award since maybe T.
It needs to be read right this very second.
3.5 Stars ~I love reading novels structured around interconnected groups of characters, especially when the story gradually reveals their relationship with one another.
So many glowing reviews are posted here on this website.
But, for me there were too many voices to keep everyone straight in my mind.
I wanted to love this novel because the plight of the Native American is an intriguing topic and such an important story to tell.
I’m still fuming because the Supreme Court upheld discriminatory voter ID laws that disenfranchised Native American voters in North Dakota.
I was eager for this novel to have more emotional resonance.
Seems like another world, anyway.Like a comet across the horizon comes Tommy "Where Have You Been?" Orange, a new voice for Native writers, in this multi-directional, multi-generational tale of a powwow in Oakland that goes wrong.
Real wrong.With twelve different narrators, each with his or her own chapters and own mini-constellations of connected minor characters, this is not the book you want to pick up in fits and starts while you're firing up another work year (school, in my case).
But the end helps because, as it moves to its inevitable climax, the book shifts to rapid, 2-4 page chapters.

