https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1623567.English_Grammar_in_Use_with_Answers
هذا الكتاب من أشهر كتب القرامر ولا يحتاج كثير من التقديم...ولكن لمن لم يسمع به من قبلفهذا مرجع بسيط مصمم لتدرسه بنفسك من دون الحاجة إلى معلميتكون من 145 وحدةشاملة لأغلب قواعد الانجليزية كل وحدة تتكون من صفحتين متقابلتينواحدة للشرح وأخرى للتمارين " التمارين الكثيرة والمنوعة أهم ميزة لهذا الكتاب "وهو مخصص لمن هم في المستوى المتوسط أو دون المتوسطpre-intermediate/intermediateأما أصحاب المستوى المتقدم فأنصحهم بهذا الكتابAdvanced Grammar in Use: A Self-Study Reference and Practice Book for Advanced Learners of Englishوهو من نفس سلسلة In-Use booksهمسة:تعلم القرامر أمر مهم ولكن الأهم منه كثرة التمرين والممارسة
My best English teacher)))
Also, a few items (especially conditionals) were not explained in away that would be intuitive to someone learning this for the first time.Despite these flaws, the book did have a lot of explanations that could help people understand some of the finer points of different grammar patterns.
I think that this would especially helpful to Korean students since the wide variety of prepositions is not found in their language, and the average Korean learning English is prone to overlook the word when producing a sentence.A lot of the practice problems were focus on accuracy with most of the activities being finishing the sentence with the correct pattern discussed on the previous page.
If I could give this book a 10, I definitely would. This is the very book I learned and polished my grammar with, just by sitting and doing all the exercises, one by one, every day. Highly recommend!
Grammar bible - my constant companion for over 18 years as a teacher of English as a foreign language.
This is one of the best grammar books I've ever found! Very didadict and with an easy to use step by step format (138 units) it's a very good source to the self-student (every unit has a lot of exercises and the book provide you with an answers guide at its end).
Can't really give this a star rating because...well...it's a text book. I had to read it for the Celta course (which is probably the reason any English speaker would read it). Yep, it gets the job done. Sometimes the British English made me question 1.) my sanity 2.) my language 3.) my humanity.
مبسط وجميل ياريت يدرس في المدارس بدل الكتب المعقدة التي لا يستفيد منها الطلبة
All Murphy's textbooks are awesome manuals to the English language. There are all levels from beginner to advanced. Loads of exercises, rules, useful advice. A free tutor of English at home!
Absolutely THE BEST ESL GRAMMAR BOOK. Raymond Murphy should've got Nobel for this masterpiece.
English Grammar in Use with Answers: Reference and Practice for Intermediate Students
Do
a good book self-study
Pithy and easy to understand :)
This is the best self-study grammar book in the world!Do you want to learn an English grammar from scratch? Or may be you just need to brush up your grammar skills. Nevermind, welcome to start reading.You won't be disappointed.
THE grammar resource for students (and teachers!). And the layout is completely user-friendly. Clear explanations and examples on the left, exercises on the right. My fave book for my ESL students for the past 12 yrs.
The second book in the "Grammar In Use series". Just as good as the first. Excellent grammar guide with simple rules and progressively difficult exercises. Review section is very good as is the summary pull-out grammar guide at the back. The entire "In Use" is top notch!
I'm using this book to improve my English as well I use it as a reference. Wonderful book for learners,you can explore all grammar with variety of examples and simplified manner. It contains alot of exercises.I recommend it highly.
answers
The whole series, English grammar in use, books published by Cambridge university are the most worthy books for the people who are not English native-speaker.
A good source for EFL and ESL learners,, i highly recommend it.
great to use this book,,,lot of grammar references ...
Best book in teaching GRAMMAR. Taught me all I know.
very helpful and easy sourse for english grammar. It is a very important book for every personal or publeic library.
كتاب للتعليم الذاتي ، غني جدا ؛ نصحني به معلم اللغة الانجليزيه في معهد بلوهورايزون بعدن .. يالله الكتاب كانت قيمته بالسعودي 4 ريالات*_*
Good
Adriana (my wife) studied english with that book a couple of years ago, and she loved it. Recommended if you're serious about learning english.
ok
I use this constantly with my students! Great exercises and clear explanations. Perfect for ESL / EFL teachers.
I want to read this book to increase by knowedge.
