https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65264.Civil_War_Stories
I really enjoyed this collection of stories. I stumbled across an article on 6/24/17 'the 175th anniversary of the birth of Ambrose Bierce' and knew I had to read something he wrote. He fought in the Civil war for the Union and the stories reflect his experiences and there's NO doubt which side he was on. I think he's a great author with insight about the psyche of a soldier, humor, and writing a short story ending with a punch are his strong suit. Bravo, Mr. Bierce and thank you for your service!
If you want to read vivid descriptions of the front line of the Civil War, read these stories. If you want to read dark, biting satire, read these stories. If you want to read something that makes you say, "That's effed up!" read these stories. If you're looking for happy-go-lucky stories about rabbits searching for rainbows to tell your children before they go to bed, look elsewhere.
However, Bierce's writing isn't worth reading because he is an authority on the Civil War but rather because of his ability to cause the reader to dive into each scene and experience along with the characters the events that take place.Perhaps he is a little verbose on detail but that seems to be a characteristic of writers of that day.
A Union spy engages in a witty, belligerent repartee with a Confederate General who has him in custody.
Well, at least for one of them.Bierce doesn't spare the reader the horrors of war.
This book was very well written and provides a wonderful view into the human aspect of the men on the side of the North that were in the battle. The formula surprise ending used in many of the stories can easily be forgiven because of the language and wit of the author. This is not a history book and does nothing to cover the battles, movement of troops or anything that you might have studied in school. It puts you in the shoes of an officer and tells you a story. This was a pleasure to read.
Matching soundtrack : Galactic Funk - DJ SpookyRebirth of a Nation - DJ Spooky
This is an excellent anthology of a diverse assortment of tales that do a remarkable job of capturing the drama, tension, and psychology of those, like Bierce, who participated in the horror that was the Civil War. While An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge is the most famous of these stories, I found the highlight of the collection to be Bierce's own recollection of his participation in the Battle of Shiloh, a battle that is regrettably little known today in spite of being at the time the bloodiest battle ever fought on American soil.
His column, which won for him the title of ‘Bitter Bierce,’ has had many imitators in modern newspapers.” Thus, when I saw this book of Civil War Stories by Bierce at the Wilson’s Creek National Battlefield Park gift shop in Missouri, I picked it up.
It contains sixteen short stories about the Civil War taken from The Collected Works of Ambrose Bierce, Volumes I and II, published in 1909, most of which come from his book Tales of Soldiers and Civilians of 1891.
It does not have one of his most famous Civil War stories, "A Bivouac for the Dead." All of them are filled with the vitriolic wit and biting satire that earned Bierce his nickname.
("Bore: A person who speaks when you wish him to listen".)In Civil War Stories we read of Bierce's experiences in the battle of Shiloh, which are every bit as terrifying as you would expect, an unauthorized excursion behind enemy lines, and the simple heroism that seemingly ordinary men exhibit out of a sense of duty.
In many of the engagements of the war the fallen leaves took fire and roasted the fallen men."These events happened a hundred fifty years ago, yet the modern reader can relate to the dehumanizing experiences of Bierce's soldiers, even though they were engaged in an unquestionably justified pursuit.
Some books really give you a feel for a specific time and place.
It's not so much that it gives a sophisticated intellectual understanding as that it gives a vivid impression of what it may have been like to live there at that time.
This collection of short stories by Bierce is one of them.
In it I get a feel for what the actual people who fought the Civil War are like, how they are different from other people who fought other wars.
Perhaps it’s the time in which he wrote and lived, or the mysterious end to his life.
A fate as mysterious as many of the stories he wrote.
In this review of his collection titled Civil War Stories, my review will be a bit different.
Bierce was a Union soldier during the Civil War, and all these stories share the setting.
Instead of reviewing the collection as a whole, I’ll write a short review of each individual story in the order they appear.
Then I’ll try to sum the collection up at the end...To read the rest of this review go to https://drewmartinwrites.wordpress.co...
God he's good!!!!Glad this is pared down to a few of his best - An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge is as good as they say! His ideas on death are complex and almost contradictory. Crazy coincidences crop up often and are a definite motif .And the horror in his stories still stands up today- the description of the retreating wounded soldiers at Chicamauga was insane. I'm still thinking about the extraordinary circumstances his characters are placed. Loved the story Parker Addison, Philosopher as well. I'll reread this someday...
Well, I'm so glad I finally finished. In all of the stories, Ambrose Bierce obsesses over the morbid aspects of the Civil War (particularly the devastation of divided families)and spatters his descriptions with dark humor and twisted irony. Bierce's own service in the Civil War obviously inspired the morose and bitter themes that strung this book together. Many of the stories (especially "Chickamauga") were pretty disturbing, and I think I would have suffered from PTSD myself if the book had been any longer.
To me, Ambrose Bierce is not only a writer. He is trying to propose a thought. A thought that pioneers like Jean Paul Sartre developed it; a magnificent balance between humanity and brutality. He is adopting a short story form for that which I do believe each one of them is more than a novel. I am speechless!
As bitter and nihilistic as it is elegantly written.
With every review, someone had to mention he was known as "bitter Bierce" but I found him more ironic than bitter.
Their stories do better when we encounter them at intervals, in various magazines--in other words, in the context for which they were written.
Reading these stories in quick succession does tend to make one notice repetition (that boy was fond of the word "acclivity"), and this lessens the impact of each story.
If you get this book, try reading no more than one story a month, with other reading in between.All that said, the writing is a marvel, particularly in two respects.
Bierce does not keep the reader waiting.
This slim book contains, as the title suggests, short stories about the American Civil War, several of which appear to be memoirs rather than fiction.
Although I have read a number of Civil War books, I think this is the first that was written by a veteran of that war.
I read the book, intermittently, over six weeks, but maybe should have stretched it out longer.It is hard to single out a favorite story, but I particularly liked "Four Days in Dixie," which appears to be autobiographical, and which uses humor to offset the terrible plight in which the narrator finds himself.Highly recommended.
An Excellent Collection of Fictional Short Stories!!Ambrose Bierce (1842-1914?) who in my opinion, while not as well known as other American fiction writters, non the less deserves greater recgnition and readership.
Bierce was best know for the sardonic wit and grim houmor of his short stories regarding the supernatural, macbre, and the grim reality of life and death.
The seventeen US Civil War stories collected here are some of the best examples of Bierce’s fiction.
In the characters, we see glimpses of Bierce’s own personality: alienation, gallows wit and fatalism.
I believe many adult reader will enjoy reading some, if not all of the stories in this collection.
I first learned of Bierce through the dramatization of An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge on The Alfred Hitchcock Presents television show in the early 1960s; Kurt Vonnegut once called that tale "the greatest American short story", and it remains one of my all time favorite stories.
This collection of Bierce's Civil War stories (including Occurence) is absolutely magnificent, breath-taking, horrifying: a personalized, insider's view of the horrors of war in the 19th century, when the killing was mostly up close and very personal, and brothers and friends killed each other.
The history of the Civil War is often told in cold, impersonal and statistical facts; here, Bierce describes it from the perspective of the people who fought and died.
"Egyptians, they worshiped the crocodile, or, like other Americans, adored themselves."This quote was written not long after the Civil War. So, we Americans had a self-love reputation even back then. That makes me laugh! Good to know, I will save this for my arsenal against people who mock my fellow Millennial's. The stories are interesting with good morals to them (generally), but they are also very sad. Even more so considering they were likely based on real experiences.
These stories are at times both a bit sarcastic and a bit frightening. He was able to delve into the psyche of soldiers and the results are good and thought provoking.
Very good.
A collection of short stories from a Federal soldier's perspective. Some read like ghost stories.
Reads like Cormac McCarthy with a sense of humor. Awesome.
This is top shelf Civil War narrative (albeit coming from a person whose only other Civil War read was The Red Badge of Courage). It is mostly absent of the antiquated language that can make reading older works a chore. Some sections almost reminded me of McCarthy. By pure chance I happened upon an episode of The Twilight Zone while I was reading this and it was An Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge. I'm not sure which version I enjoyed more. This was definitely worth reading. Recommended by Ryan Holiday's Reading List.
If you want a good, short book of American Civil War stories, this is a start.
For one thing, he fought in the war and there is a bitter honesty through all the stories.
These stories depict the most graphic gore I have yet to read in nineteenth century fiction.
Bierce respectfully depicts the soldiers as brave men who all become victims of tragic circumstances beyond their control that could easily have been avoided if the army didn't blindly follow orders or indeed if there wasn't a war on.
I skipped about 4 of the stories.
DisjointedWhile I found some stories in this book interesting there were too many thAt required a too great an effort to read. The stories were often too complicated or detailed to follow.
I'd not read anything by Ambrose Bierce before, and found him delightful. The first half of the book relates his own experiences in the Civil War, but the second half is short tales full of humor, pathos and irony. I loved it!
If you like your war stories with a bit of dark humor, horror, or the occasional snide aside, this book is for you.
Known as "bitter Bierce" by his contemporaries, due to his dour take on humanity, Ambrose nevertheless knew his way around a battlefield.
Combine this knowledge with gifted powers of description, and you have a set of stories that will sometimes make you gasp, cringe or laugh out loud.
Filled with surprise endings, harrowing details and no end of suspense, these tales will help you see why Bierce was regarded as a master story-teller.
The story begins with a man being held at the side of a bridge preparing to be hanged.
The noose broke and he dropped in the creek and he swan away downstream.
This story was very good, just the way the imagination of the man seemed like reality made it truly sad when it was found that it was only his imagination during the drop.
The way the author put all of the stories made me actually feel that they were from the Civil War time period.
