https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18812405-the-good-girl
I predicted the ending from the moment Mia is kidnapped (yes, another thriller about a missing rich woman) and - to be honest - started to guess it the moment the book was compared to Gone Girl.
We know exactly what happened to Mia and, because of the changing "before" and "after" perspectives, we also know that she will be "rescued".The story is a long, detailed look at how a girl is kidnapped by a guy who is kind to her, looks after her, and tries to protect her.
I was promised a story like Gone Girl. What I got was Gone Girl's annoying little sister. Predictable and weak. Also, can anyone say Stockholm Syndrome?
I was expecting a book like Gone Girl and what I got was a relative of it.
It didn't really hit me what was going on until the last few pages.
This book really kept me guessing and each time, I was just very wrong.I really did like the multiple POV's of the novel, however.
I haven't read a novel with multiple POV's that I have enjoyed in a long time.
The author did a good job with hooking the reader in and having them crave for the end of every chapter, just so they could see what was going on in the next one.
But eventually, Mia realizes there is far more to Colin than meets the eye, that he is vulnerable and emotionally needy, and Colin realizes that Mia isn't the spoiled little rich girl he assumed she was when he was hired to abduct her.The Good Girl shifts perspective between Colin, Eve, and Gabe Hoffman, the police detective investigating Mia's disappearance, and it shifts from the events leading up to and through her abduction to the aftermath.
I definitely thought Kubica tried to hard to make James, and to some extent, Eve, fairly unlikeable characters (although in different ways), but I found Mia and Colin's characters tremendously interesting.
Which of course is one source of confusion, since the story shifts and slides with these perspectives i.e. during her abduction thru Colin/Owen; during the search for her thru Gabe; and after she’s been rescued when she only answers to the name of Chloe thru Eve. In the aftermath, she has experienced selective amnesia and you, her family and the detective are trying to piece together what really happened in that cabin.I rarely complain about a book outside the story and its merits but the galley I read had no chapters with no marker or warning when the POV shifts.
**** GoodReads Giveaway Winner ***The publishers of this book will tell you that The Good Girl is the next Gone Girl.
The author lets us know that only missing beautiful blonds are important enough for an investigator to devote his time too.
If the population of an “ethnic” area is nearly half white then its “safe to walk around at night.” If an area is “largely African American” then it a “hellhole.” She even characterizes her white criminal as misunderstood with a wounded heart underneath.
All black and shiny with scary white teeth!) WFT.
I am ashamed to admit that I did read the whole thing.
I got taken in by the pretty package, and a good review I am sure I read somewhere.
Well, this is bad writing all over.
The moment things do began to be interesting, it keep steering off into cliche central.
I think this author has talent, she can come up with making this steamy pile of nonsense interesting at times which is quite an accomplishment, but she can't save it from the weight of a lot of bad ideas.
Wow, I just finished this and am completely bowled over about this being a debut novel.
Talk about non-stop suspense.
Told from three different perspective, during the kidnapping, after the kidnapping when they are trying to piece together what happened and from the detective while he is hunting for the kidnappers.
So hard to pull of a book like this off and make it believable, but at least for me the author did an amazing job.
A book where the lines between the good guys and bad guys are incredibly blurred.
A well written, suspenseful and engrossing read and definitely an author to watch.ARC from NetGalley.
We'd built a fire from nothing but wood.So says Good Girl character Colin Thatcher, bragging about his survival skills.
If you disagree with me and think that words are all it takes to write a novel, go read a phone book and then get back to me.I honestly feel torn about devoting any amount of time to writing a review of this book, but I feel cheated and would like to be able to share some words of my own.I don't say a thing.That's Colin Thatcher again.
Readers will find themselves sympathizing with the two main characters, as their deepest feelings, struggles, and their dark pasts are uncovered— making for an intense page-turner mystery, you cannot put down.In a desperate attempt for retribution, the stage is set for a flawless plan of attack—kidnapping; choices are made which will forever change the lives of those involved.
He is non-supportive of his wife, even during the three months Mia is held captive (unless it involves his image or career).Colin/Owen A good heart, and nice looking guy---dealt an unlucky hand in life.
I picked up a copy of The Good Girl as the author, Ms. Mary Kubica, is scheduled for a Q&A in one of my Goodreads groups.
I found this book to be an excellent debut novel and a highly enjoyable read.The Good Girl is an almost completely character-driven story; the main players are very well developed.
The story is told via 3 different points of views—those of Eve (Mia’s mother), Gabe (the lead detective on the case) and Colin (the kidnapper).
I recommend The Good Girl to all fans of psychological suspense, especially those who are willing to trade a bit of suspense for more interesting characters.
The chapters were short which made for a quick read as the story was able to hold my attention.
I also was impressed that this was a debut novel; I found it well said and put together nicely for a first shot.Things I didn't like: I'm not sure that I can stress enough how much I hate every other novel being compared as "the next Gone Girl".
Would recommend for those in the mood for a quick read that can hold your attention with mild violence.
My inability to figure out whether or not there was actually a protagonist?
You know what, now that I think about it, in a contest for what I hate most about the novel, I'm going to go with the racism.
That it's completely boring is a close second.
Oh, the only explanations I can think of for why so many reviewers are saying this is "The next Gone Girl" are A.
They've never actually read Gone Girl.
I kept thinking if *Annie*, (kidnapped in the novel, "STILL MISSING"), and *Mia*, abducted in "The Good Girl", met for coffee, they'd become GREAT FRIENDS....
The writing style in "The Good Girl" --starts off engaging in the beginning-- then soon becomes annoying.
Its no longer a novelty to see an author write a novel from three different points of view.
(I'm guessing its not in her heart of this author) ---but I would hope she might be more careful with her next book.
When everything else is done being said ---(good/bad...etc.)I would also like to offer my congrats to the author.
Mia is the 25 year old daughter of a Chicago judge.
Eventually, she is returned home but is in a total fog as to what has happened.
The one person you never hear directly from is Mia herself, until the very end.
It’s a character driven book, not big on action.
It raises some interesting questions at the end, concerning things like Stockholm Syndrome.
The book isn’t a great mystery.
I could tell what was going to happen and knew who the “bad guy” was well in advance of the ending.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/It’s the next Gone Girl!!!! Trust me Amy, we ALL want to punch you two in the face at this point.Okay, so like errrrrrry other book that claimed it was going to be the “next Gone Girl” – this one wasn’t. However, momma likey the new Harlequin dark and seedy romance genre : )Since this was a mystery/thriller I won’t say much for fear that I’ll give too much away. The basic premise has been done a time or two before:Colin Thatcher is a g
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/It’s the next Gone Girl!!!!
kidnapping Mia Dennett, but when a case of guilty conscience gets to Colin before he can turn Mia over to the real bad guy he hightails it to a cabin in the woods, with Mia in tow.
It’s also there that Mia gets a case of Stockholm Syndrome resulting in .
“The last time I pushed her away, but the last time was different.
Obviously if that’s not your idea of a good time, you should go ahead and skip this one.
The story is about Mia, a 25 year old girl who is kidnapped from a bar, Colin/Owen is hired to kidnap Mia and deliver her to Dalmar , Colin was following Mia for a really long time before making any move toward her (view spoiler)[( Dalmar : the man who was Hired by Mia to kidnape her and ask her father for ransome but Colin was worried about her so he didn't frop her and ignored all dalmar's calls asking about where the girl is, Mia's mother informed the police of her disappearance.
The Good Girl by Mary Kubica was a well written debut novel with a plot that is intereting enough to keep the reader turning the pagesThe story is told from multiple perspectives and is quite easy to follow.
This is the sort of book that provides enough suspense to keep you reading and yet by the end you finish with a somewhat sigh of relief and while it was good you are left feeling it could have been better if..................While I liked the book I kept comparing it to Still Missing which I had read last year and gave it the same rating.
I hated this book.The characters were flat and unlikeable, the plot was boring.
The worst part is that it was pretty racist.
One of the characters, who is black, is described as having "serpentine eyes" and being wild and unpredictable and physically threatening.
It's pretty unbelievable that the book was allowed to be published with overtly racist implications.
I honestly don't think that the author intended to come across this way but I don't know if that makes it better or worse.Probably the worst book I've read this year.
Ho Humm.... That's my initial feeling after finishing this! It certainly wasn't bad, I just felt like I kind of meandered through waiting for something exciting to happen! I was kept interested mainly because I knew something had to happen because it was only 350 pgs! The 'twist' kept it from being 2 stars.... But Iit was ''too little, too late' for me to award more stars!
It's not that Mia was a particularly good girl - she was pretty normal really; got drunk as a teenager, did all the normal things that most of us do.
But she had a good heart, a kind heart.
She's not particularly close to her family, but that's normal in the first flight of independence, and they don't understand her anyway.
But they will be......This is my second Mary Kubica read in a short time, and I loved it.
I find it very easy to get very involved in Kubica's characters.
Kubica is fast becoming one of my favourite authors.
DE LO MEJOR QUE HE LEÍDO ESTE AÑO Una buena chica es un thriller trepidante que me ha enganchado a su lectura como hace mucho tiempo no me enganchaba a un libro.
Una novela cargada de giros, con personajes profundizados y con unos toques psicológicos que la han hecho de lo mejor que he leído este año y que, sin duda, no dejará indiferente a nadie.¡Menudo novelón!
Me ha gustado muchísimo también el estilo narrativo porque mezcla diferentes voces que suscitan el interés en la lectura y aportan más elementos a la trama principal.En resumen, ha sido una novela que me ha encantado, que no he podido parar de leer, que juega psicológicamente con los personajes y que tiene un final de infarto.
not rating this because it was a fine thriller but it was also pro-life as hell!! and that's really going to distract from the rest of the book for me.don't @ me thanks!!!
You have to be a special kind of psychopath to want to abduct someone for the "joy" of getting to take care of a adult sized baby.I am far too lazy for that.Told in three parts - Colin, Mia's mother and the detective on the case - the story bounces back and forth between Mia being missing and Mia being found.
The pacing of events felt clunky, resulting in a story that moved pretty slowly along with some ho-hum characters, who lacked depth and unique voices.(There's also some subtle racism which felt lazy and unnecessary.
My favorite part of the book was the smartly structured and creative format, jumping both in perspective and time.
The story is told from alternating perspectives of Colin, Mia’s anxious mother, Eve, Gabe Hoffman, the detective on her case and finally from Mia herself.
Seeing Mia from the four different perspectives is a gratifying way to add depth to the story.
The main characters were well developed, and while I didn’t necessarily love any of them, it affirmed my realization that you don’t need to love the characters to love the book.
Since then she has published three additional novels: Pretty Baby (2015), Don’t You Cry (2016) and Every Last Lie in 2017.
Dun dun dunnnnn…The chapters alternate between Eve (Mia’s mother), Gabe (detective), and Colin (the abductor).
While I was sweating with no power, reading about the frigid weather and ice cold lake helped me to cool off.
Not sure how this is Kubica’s debut, because it read as though she’s a prolific writer- one that easily creates suspense and had a succinct plotline.
I would recommend this to anyone looking to escape and are ready to turn those pages!The only issue I had was (view spoiler)[ what was the point of Grace?
(Mia’s sister)—she literally served no purpose IMO (hide spoiler)]Looking forward to more from this author.
I loved this book The Good Girl Kubica is a well written novel which was a real page turner warning the book goes backwards & forwards which i am getting used to the plot was great & i felt a liking towards Colin The Protagonist he had a close relationship to Mia & she became very attached to him Stockholm Syndrome.I hated her father the judge he was a cantankerous person who was very manipulative & had his own agendas i could not believe the ending . really enjoyed this book.
For fans of Gone Girl, you will love The Good Girl..Highly suspenseful, I finished it in 2 days. The story revolves around a woman who is kidnapped and spends time with her assailant in the backwoods of Minnesota. Three different narrators, her mother, the police detective and the kidnapper share their feelings and stories of before and after the kidnapping.I am not going to say anymore at the risk of being a plot spoiler but the ending threw me for a loop..This is going to be a blockbuster!
He cancels after she arrives but ends up with Colin Thatcher, a man hired to abduct her.
I found the story interesting, especially its use of multiple characters to tell the story in the past and present.
I never found it confusing and it was delivered coherently despite it not being linear storytelling, sort of like lots of asides before you get the whole tale.
Aside from Colin, most of the time the characters were telling the facts instead of allowing us to experience the story.
There were three narrators telling the story and one delivering the epilogue.
They were all outstanding, especially Colin's who nailed everything about the man.
For Mary Kubica's "The Good Girl" - I'll admit this book kept me reading for quite a bit of the novel to see what would happen through the perspectives of Eve, Gabe and Colin.
Just didn't measure up to me compared to narratives that have asserted their elements in much stronger ways.Despite its issues, I'm willing to try another book by Kubica, but I'll admit this read both vexed and disappointed me, and more on the level for things that detracted from its overarching aim and story.Overall score: 1.5/5 stars
