https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6513226-the-dragon-s-secret
I considered this a rather entertaining classic young-adult mystery. Something like the more popular Nancy Drew and Dana girls mysteries. Here sixteen year old Leslie Crane meets Phyllis whist spending a bit of a sea shore vacation with her sick aunt. After observing some unusual movements in the supposedly empty bungalow next door, Leslie and her friend soon end up in the midst of a rather strange mystery and adventure...
There was enough "mystery" going on to where you wanted to keep reading and find out what was going on with the box.
There were a lot of people involved for such a short story but it all wrapped up in the end and we got all our answers.The writing style was very cut and dry, not like what I'm used to reading.
The characters didn't really seem to have much personality and therefore I never much connected with them.All in all I'm glad it was such a short book with quick chapters and enough of a plot to read it from cover to cover in one day.
Girl detectives from BEFORE Nancy Drew!
I loved this book. It was a good example of a cozy mystery. I listened to it on Libre Vox.
A must readI really enjoyed this book . I felt like I was on the edge of my seat the whole time they where trying to solve the puzzle .
The title attracted me and since this was a freebie, I read the book after I downloaded it. Two sentences in I realized this was an early YA for girls. Not bad; not good. Giant leaps of coincidence and things happening "off camera" but it was a pleasant read and helped pass the time while commuting.
This was a fun little mystery book. One of the possible precursors to Nancy Drew. Apparently there are several authors who had young ladies in the sleuthing role before Nancy Drew took off and became the preferred teen-serial-mystery-heroine. Not the best book out there, but fun none-the-less.
This book was okay. It would be a good read for someone who is between 8 and 12 years of age. After that, it really would probably lose it's appeal. I will say, however, that the suspense kept me listing to the audio book til the very end.
Loved this book:D
This was kind of like a Nancy Drew story. It was OK. I downloaded it for free so had to read it.:)
A pleasant story. Not exciting, but a good little mystery.
Meh. Listened to Librivox audiobook as background story; found it rather plain and a bit prim but that could be from narrator.
This book is excellent. I read half of it before I checked the publication date-1920! For a book almost a hundred years old it is fresh and engaging. I will read more by this author.
