https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/512145.The_Renaissance
The Renaissance (The Story of Civilization #5), Will Durant (Author), Ariel Durant (Editor)The Renaissance (1953): This volume covers the history of Italy from c.1300 to the mid 16th century, focusing on the Italian Renaissance.1 - Prelude: 1300–77: 1.1 - The Age of Petrarch and Boccaccio: 1304–751.2 - The Popes in Avignon: 1309–77"Venetian merchants invaded every market from Jerusalem to Antwerp; they traded impartially with Christians and Mohammedans, and papal excommunications fell upon them with all the force of dew upon the earth." (p.
Money is the root of all civilization.” (p.
Doubtless like all of us he was many men, turned on one or another of his selves as occasion required, and kept his real self a frightened secret from the world. So continues my tour through the ages.The Renaissance, the fifth volume of The Story of Civilization, is unique in this series for its narrowness of scope. Instead of taking all of Western Europe as his subject, Durant confines himself to Italy; and whereas the previous volume took us from the death of Constantine (337) all the way to
Nevertheless, as usual, Durant casts a wide net, including political, economic, musical, philosophical, scientific, and literary history.But of course, this being a book about the Renaissance, the bulk of it is given over to the visual arts: painting, sculpture, and architecture.
Durant was a man who lived on books, not paintings; he appreciates visual art as a dilettante rather than an aficionado.
با خواندن تاريخ است كه ميفهميم كجاي جهان ايستاده ايم و چرايي بسياري از مسائلي كه با آن دست به گريبان
(Fun side note to that book was how singing and music in church initially were considered BAD before it was seen as a way of enhancing faith.) As standard fare, excellent mention of Leonardo's multifaceted interests which apparently was also responsible for his falling out with Michelangelo when he tried to get Michel into a conversation on a topic unrelated to art.
1517.Fun to mention how Machiavelli thought mercenaries were a waste of money, as they had no patriotic pride they were fighting for.
By "renaissance," it seems that Durant means Italy's artistic impulses (e.g., Da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael) and its economic vitality.* While acknowledging Durant's fondness for all things Italian of this age, there's plenty of "same old, same old" in this historical period in this historical place.
The Durants have a way with words, that even sixty years later are still amusing and appealing.
The cause was wealth, which has had like results in other times - in the Rome of Nero, the Rome of Leo X, the Paris of Louis XIV, the New York and Chicago of today." Or another, melancholy this time: "Filippino was invited to Prato to paint a Madonna; Vasari praised it, the Second World War destroyed it." I always think of the Durants as the pop historians of their time; every library has this set of the History of Civilization.
Though I like Durant's writing style and the book is well organized for relating the information, he differs from the conclusions of other historians. He whitewashes the characters of many of the popes and other higher clergy, even those of the notorious Borgias and denies that Leonardo and Michelangelo were homosexual. He also claims that the immorality that plagued Italy came from people falling away from the church. In reality, the church gave a grievous example of morality for worshippers.
Come The Renaissance, I think it needed more visual aids to see and witness the glory of the Renaissance, it is easier now with the internet but still.We started in the 1300 with The Age of Petrarch and Boccaccio to the series of Popes and the christian life of the era.
We witnessed The Rise of the Medici in Florence and the birth of Leonardo da Vinci, The most fascinating figure of the Renaissance, We saw the Papal states and the kingdom of Naples.
Till the collapse and fall with the League of Cambrai and the End of a Age.
What a spectacular journey through the vast sea of the Italian Renaissance!How endless was the wealt
The fifth book of the series once more gives us a brief glimpse of a bygone era, this time taking us to 14th and 15th century Italy.
Durant's so called integral method of history paints a vigorous picture of numerous proud cities and notable potentates flourishing and vying in an endless cycle of longed for successes and great calamities, at a time when men were a law onto themselves, and contemned the unity of Italy the popes had sought to establish in the Middle ages.Despite the turmoil and strife the period produced an unprecedented burst of artistic talent, culminating in the great trio of the suave Raphael, the titanic genius of uncouth Michelangelo and the polymathic intensity of Leonardo da Vinci.Albeit the works of these and innumerable other artists are treated at considerable length, I was more fascinated by the sheer liveliness of the varied characters of the historic drama.
The weakest of the five volumes I have read thus far in this series, it still manages to be worth reading.
Its thumbnail portraits of the main players of the age - the popes, mercenaries, monks, artists, and kings - are worth the price of admission here.
Second, he spends entirely too much time, inordinate amounts of space describing specific Renaissance artworks in excruciating detail.
Although I did read every word of the book, as I always do, my recommendation would be to skip the hundreds of pages dedicated to specific artwork and read the rest.
Durant writes of the Renaissance: "What frightening vitality there must have been in those Renaissance Italians, living amid violence, seduction, superstition, and war, yet eagerly alive to every form of beauty and artistry, and pouring forth-as if all Italy had been a volcano-the hot lava of their passions and their art, their architecture and assassinations, their sculpture and liaisons, their painting and brigandage, their Madonnas and grotesques, their hymns, and macaronic verse, their obscenities and piety, their profanity and prayers!
To this day we feel the lifting breath of that afflatus, and our museums overflow with the spared surplus of that inspired and frenzied age."Will Durant has an amazing subject depth and writing skill.
Although an enthusiast for Italian Renaissance art and architecture I had never studies its political and papal background in any depth. This is a hugely informative and edifying survey of the period that puts everything I knew before into perspective. It is worth being aware that this book was published in 1953 and so some of the attitudes of the author fall a bit short of current widely-held views -- notably his somewhat censorious comments about Leonardo's sexual orientation. But overall I found it an absorbing read.
This is my latest in the story of civilization. It’s the best volume so far. The book focuses primarily on the Italian Renaissance, which probably is appropriate. Great characters- the Medici, Michelangelo, Leonardo, and a host of others. It amazes me that the church in general and the popes in particular played such dominant roles. The Durants do a great job of covering a lot of territory and keeping it entertainingly
Overall a good book but not as enjoyable as the previous entries. Perhaps the nebulous period of the Renaissance warrants a books that is all over the place In addition, while art was at most 10% of the previous books, it's at least 60% here. That's way too much art history!
I started this almost nine months ago, but it was worth every minute. Much space was given to artists and religious hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church during the Renaissance.If you love detail, detail, detail in your historic readings you will love this book!
What a time to be alive. The Renaissance was full of life and vigor. It was the best of times and the worst of times. Duran Durant's depiction of this era in human history is vivid and funny and inviting.
Great book from maybe the greatest historian ever.
Another reminder of my own ignorance and how vast is the knowledge to be attained. Will Durant make it easy to absorb so much knowledge in a reduced format. All his book are a most in my opinion.
2,000,000 words down, 3,000,000 to go!And we're only in 1576.
My favourite volume in the whole series. I knew nothing and this blew me away
I enjoyed learning about the art, and that is a significant part of all the books. The authors show that the Renaissance was the merging of many people who were creative or powerful, and this adds a personal and emotional perspective to the grandeur of the Renaissance. It's a colorful and entertaining read.
I was a little disappointed in the narrower historical scope of the book, but (as usual, in this series) couldn't put it down. It's helpful to keep google images nearby, amid the litany of works of art discussed.
The Renaissance: A History of Civilization in Italy from 1304-1576 A.D. by Will Durant (audiobook, 37 hours).
This is volume 5 of Durant’s 11 volume set, The Story of Civilization.
Will Durant brings to this era the exquisite and exhausting detail for which all his books are known, so much so that in the back of my mind I was constantly wondering how can he possibly know all of this.
FYI: every used bookstore has a set of Durant’s Opus (including work of his wife Ariel in early volumes) because it’s required by law.
(The law of chance, because a gazillion sets were given away in the 1960s by the Book of the Month Club as a new member draw.
I want now to read more, much more, about the Renaissance, yet despite a few shortcomings I cannot imagine anybody surpassing Durant.
The joy which he exudes into each page has survived decades after his death and shall, I suspect, remain within his works for as long as readers like myself (and, hopefully, you) continue to pick up his lovingly crafted masterpieces and dedicate far too few hours to the Story of Civilization than civilization deserves.
This is volume 5 of Will and Ariel Durant's "The Story of Civilization." It is literally an exhaustive study of the period of history in Italy know as The Renaissance.
If you are looking for something just on the art history of this era, this book is probably not for you.
However, if you are like myself, and just enjoy getting a feel for the political, cultural, and other aspects of a certain period, you will probably enjoy this book.
I keep wondering how many assistants he must have had to compile all this info--apparently he and his wife traveled a lot in whatever area they were writing about so perhaps they visited every town and city, looked at every old church, plaza, mansion, painting sculpture etc and also read all the literature from the period--as well as the history--it was a disorderly history with lots of city states, popes, kings, dukes and Medici.
He's also fond of recounting torture and the lustiness of his heroes--even tho he apparently was a quiet scholar who had one wife to whom he was so devoted that he died within two weeks after she did.Anyway this book made me really want to visit Italy and look at all this artwork!
I also am very interested to see how religion has gone from liberal expansive and explorative phases to clamping down on creative and expansive thought.
There were times in Christianity, Islam and Judaism when exploration was welcomed, but when religions become afraid and insecure the reaction is clamp down and oppress everyone who won't agree with the approved orthodoxy.
This the difference between seeing religion and oppressive versus seeing faith as liberating.
I find that my reviews of Will Durant's Story of Civilization have mostly taken the form of quoting some wonderful passage, standing back, and saying "Isn't that amazing?
Durant, writing of the Renaissance, describes a nexus of mindsets that many ages have shared in, but which the Renaissance embodied: "Enlightenment is of minorities, and emancipation is individual; minds are not freed en masse.
Durant, as always, a master of the past, the present, and of the condition human history.
This book is highly detailed.
On the other hand, I think he takes it too far and includes a lot of tangential facts that didn't add much to the story.
But more than the sheer amount of detail or the choice of which details to include, this book's chief failing is in its organization.
It jumps around between people and time periods and places, making it a bit hard to follow.
I quite enjoyed listening to it as I walked the streets of Bologna and Florence - it was cool to hear him talking about places I saw daily.
