https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103867.Descartes_Error
The book starts out very readable (which is uncharacteristic of Damasio), then (about half way through) the book becomes nearly unreadable (which is typical of Damasio).
But I'm often lost as to the larger point Damasio is trying to make.
I attribute this to Damasio's prolix writing style.
Much of the book feels like he's barfing data onto page after page with out connecting any of it back to the central metaphor of the book.
They (big generalization, lots of exceptions e.g. Dawkins) don't seem to value economy, clarity or functionality in their writing.
I'll finish this book, I'll read the rest of his books, but dear god what a chore..

From this, as well as experimental work with other victims of brain damage, Damasio draws the conclusion that "reason" as we typically think of it is not an abstract process, but a fundamentally embodied one: the brain and the body are in constant communication, and the brain uses feedback from the body to evaluate, prune, and select for further exploration the branches of a decision tree that, for even the most minor of problems ("when should we get together next?") would be otherwise unmanageably large.My interest in cognitive science and neuroscience were the natural outgrowths of my interest in computers and science fiction.
3,5*Não sou uma leitora prolifera em matérias como a que é abordada por António Damásio neste livro, mas também não é a minha primeira leitura sobre o tema.No entanto, nesta obra, que começa de uma forma algo acessível ao leitor "comum" no que respeita a conceitos sobre o assunto, com o avançar da leitura, a complexidade dos termos adensa-se, tornando-os demasiado científicos ou académicos, o que me dificultou, a dada altura, a sua compreensão.Mas acho que o barco chegou a bom porto e António Damásio ganhou, definitivamente, uma nova leitora.A minha predilecção foi para o capítulo 7 da parte II sobre as emoções e sentimentos.P. 257- "(...) a compreensão cabal da mente humana requer a adopção de uma perspectiva do organismo.
Having read and become involved with his later books, I have gone to the first in a series which explains the difference between emotion and feeling, which makes the mind and body one again, and which profoundly disturbs the comfortable idea of any but conventional separation of 'reason' and the passions.Damasio is of the 'sufficient but not necessary' strand when it comes to looking at the relationship between brain and mind: you can't be human with the attributes of feelings, emotions, memory and so on without a brain, but all of the attributes relate to things beyond the brain (in particular, the body).
I had an unusually ambivalent reaction to this book and alternated between being fascinated and being, well, slightly bored. I'd say that the book is good and the author has some excellent insights, but he gets a little long-winded at times and tends to meander. For the curious, Descarte's "error" was the separation of mind and body, and consequently, an artificial dichotomy between rationality and emotion. Damasio makes an excellent case on neurological grounds that rationality simply doesn't work without emotion.
I was captivated and fascinated by this book, start to finish. The book addresses the importance of emotion in cognition, thus pointing out Descartes' error in separating mind from body. In many ways, this book simply affirms things that I have "known" for many years, having spent 20+ years as a dancer/choreographer, but Damasio's perspective as a neuroscientist provides additional and compelling insights. I recommend this book to anyone interested in cognition, psychology, philosophy, arts, or science -- basically, to just about anyone.
I've read a number of others who attempt to explain away a lot of the mysteries of the brain by big-level theories, but Demasio turns out to build one of the more compelling set of explanations based mostly on evidence from his years of research in dissociation studies in neurology.
The book sags a bit in the middle (editor please!), but Demasio's theories of self to be found in the closing chapters are well worth the wait.I won't delve too much into the implications for neuroscience, but Demasio's claim only makes our task to describe the brain all the more difficult.
Damasio's book is terrific, and works both as an introduction and a good guide for those studying neuroscience and cognitive science.
Damasio does use some unqualified terms, but he does a reasonable job at keeping the very technical discussions brief or relatively well qualified by the context of the case studies.There are a lot of areas that Damasio glosses over, but that is largely because he is attempting to cover a fairly massive scope, in terms of science.
The text really is about the science, and it is only towards the end that Damasio really begins to address the philosophical assessment, at all.
Damasio, a neurologist, uses the case to explore the relationship between emotions and the neurological structure of the brain.A friend recommended this book to me because of our mutual interest in the philosophical problem of free will, especially as illuminated by the nature of the emotions.
Seemingly everybody since Descartes has knocked the dualism and still made use of the mind-body distinction.My favorite part is Damasio's discussion of how one's emotional life plays an important part in rational thinking, by recalling bodily feelings which give a coloration to this line of reasoning or that.
very bad. the title takes on a literal meaning as this book is good for: 1. a further explication but just largely a complete repetition of Descartes' philosophy under the guise of a 'correction'2. never pointing out any errors Descartes actually made, and falling in to all of the same traps Descartes did, most of which were pointed out in the 17th century.
Through Damasio, Phineas Gage has become a household name (in certain households!) – the emblematic tragic figure whose prefrontal cortex was severely damaged in 1848, and whose consequent experiences paved the way for the neurological understanding of the prefrontal importance in regulation of emotion, complex decision-making and general executive functioning.I think there are two fundamental take-aways from Damasio’s classic: (1) the mind is embodied and without this foundation, no approaches to higher cognitive functions or theories of consciousness have much validity, and (2) the prefrontal cortex (pfc) is the crucial mediator between our “innate regulatory circuits” and our self-aware consciousness, with its attributes of reason, willpower, symbolization, abstraction, etc.Damasio’s work is a significant resource for my research project.
(Or rather our brain connected specific classes of stimuli with specific classes of somatic state, and our automated somatic-marker device is based on the "education to the standards of rationality of that [our:] culture." It is in effect a marker based on our secondary emotions) This book has really done a compelling job of explaining this hypothesis, both biologically and circumstantially.
That being said, I'm coming at this book from a zoologist perspective, not a neurologist perspective, so I haven't really been keeping up with current ideas in the brain science world.
Essentially, he explains that suffering has an emotional component.
A very intriguing book exploring the relationship between reason and emotion. Having grappled with how the two can complement each other for most of my life, I'm digging it. The author uses historical medical examples of bizarre cases of brain damage, such as the story of Phineas Gage, a construction foreman from the 1800s who survived a 3-foot metal rod passing through his head, suffering nothing but blindness in his left eye physically but a whole slew of mental and emotional problems due to the precisely localized brain damage. Fascinating stuff.
Damasio takes advantage of some bizarre accidents to discover new things about the brain. Mainly, that decision making isn't rational, but involves a leap of faith. Very persuasive, and it jibes with William James's Will to Believe.
Provate a immaginare quel che era accaduto: provate ad immaginare di non sentire piacere quando contemplate una pittura che vi piace, o quando ascoltate uno dei vostri brani musicali preferiti.
Ecco cosa mi affascina della "letteratura scientifica", che come espressione non mi piace ma rende l'idea, il fatto di costituire un mondo complesso, dentro il quale è impossibile tracciare linee di confine e stabilire domini dai bordi netti.
E questo mi dà tanta fiducia, mi dice che va bene avere un'anima complessa, una di quelle che non si può scindere perché le parti di cui è costituita sono troppo interconnesse tra loro.
Since then I have read extensively in the realms visited by Damasio which were new to me: Spinoza himself was an old friend.Somehow there was always something more enticing than "Descartes' Error", his first book.
It has been on my list for over a decade, and practically every book in this general area mentions it, thus enticing me more.
I ordered the book, and now have read it.Much of the first part was familiar territory, as other authors have since quoted Damasio and cited his work extensively.
I've read Damasio's 2010 book, "Self Comes to Mind" 4 times through now, and I'm very at odds with many of its premises and claims.
"Necessary but not sufficient" is a theme that runs throughout the book, with a high regard for the sublimity of the integral person as a whole that is not downgraded by the fascinating revelations brought out through neuroscientific findings.
I know there are differences among opinions in the reviews given here, but I personally loved his mix of quick-read narratives and scientific prose.
I love the earlier Damasio, and this book has convinced me to give further investigation into more of his previous works!
Damasio takes on Descartes: why you cannot separate emotion from reason, the body and brain from the mind, and how brain-damaged patients provide us with these insights.More accessible if you're well-versed with brain anatomy.
Damasio explains how body and brain constantly construct the image of our "self", changes in body states we perceive (feelings), and how reason and emotion use the same equipment.
I wasn't well-versed with brain anatomy, knowing only the big chunks (e.g. lobes, cerebellum, brain stem).
After having read "The Feeling of What Happens" I thought I'd give this earlier work by the same aut
Fascinating stuff. The cutting edge of neuroscience as applied to philosophy. Reintegrates the mind, body, emotions and reason through more than just philosophical musings. If you pick this up, it may be helpful to note that a) this is the first of three books in which he details his research findings, b) there is a lot of anatomical and neurological info - sometimes it may be necessary to skim those parts if that's not you're field of study and c) I think his concept of reason (here) can best be described as "social reason."
Dense psychology terminology, hides a beautiful argument that probably deserves more beautiful prose. This book is all about emotions and feelings, but unlike soft-core psych (read: Self-help books) it makes a substantive argument for why they are important, indeed inextricably linked to human decision making. Sure, that may seem self-evident, but the argument and the studies that back it up are amazing. Who would have thought to test whether spinal cord injury patients feel emotions to a lesser extent than normal people.
Um bom livro para quem pretende perceber os mecanismos que determinam a nossa identidade enquanto indivíduo. Ao longo do livro o autor recorre a vários termos técnicos, mas que são previamente introduzidos e explicados no texto. Apesar do assunto parecer chato (emoções, razão e cérebro), já li livros com "acção" bastante mais chatos! Um clássico! A julgar pelo número de edições, um dos livros que mais facilmente se deve encontrar na estante dos Portugueses.
The book started off as easily accessible in terms of wording and concepts, but then got too academic and abstract near the end.
A pesar de llevar años peleado con buena parte de la ciencia, este neurocientífico me hizo recuperar el interés. Ahora quiero leer todos sus libros y creo que es vital en la bisagra epocal en la que estamos y en el “giro emocional" del que las artes y las humanidades participamos en conjunto. Además, como neurobiólogo Damasio respeta y se complementa de las ciencias sociales, lo cual también deja claro su apuesta de sumarse a la construcción del conocimiento en general. Me quedé impresionado a pesar de lo denso que es lo que se explica.
what is its degree of error in double-blind experiments - "The immune system, the hypothalumus, the ventromedial frontal cortices, and the bill of rights have the same root cause" (262).- people wth congenital absense of pain are always giggly, aquire body damage and cannot function even though they can feel pleasure (need pleasure and pain; former is not enough [is it most important?:]- trigimenal nueralgial: excrutiating pain from small patches of especially sensitive skin; after operation: "Oh the pains are the same, but I feel fine now.
I would say, it is a must read for anyone, who wants to understand emotions. He might have made some mistakes, and maybe some of the findings are disproved by newer findings, but the core views of the book are revolutionary. Emotions are not "irrational", they are not an enemy, they are an essential part of our intelligence and an important marker for setting goals and making decisions. Recommended for everyone, who was poisoned by the "enlightened" view, that ratio is inherently superior to emotio.
important source of irrational behavior." After reviewing other cases of brain damage, in humans and in monkeys, Damasio identifies the brain locations that seem most connected to lose of social function: - ventromidial, in the split between the left and right sides, above the corpus callosum.- amygdala- dorsolateral or left and right sides of prefrontal contex.- somatosensory, the 'lightening bolt' on the side of the left hemisphere.Damasio also touches on the role of neurochemical transmitters, such as Prozac, as only one factor, among many, that must be considered when understanding the full behavior and impact of treatment.Chap 5: Assembling an Explanation."...having a mind means that an organism forms neural representations which can become images, be manipulated by a process called thought, and eventually influence behavior by helping predict the future, plan accordingly, and choose the next action.""An integrated mind from parcellated activity." The sensory subsystems do their own processing and create a representation which can be stored and accessed later.
Interesting book to read. Great for those with a non-science background as well.
More specifically, Damasio argues that it is precisely when people lose their ability to evaluate emotionally that they become paralysed by logical thought.
Damasio's answer is to propose a model of thought that gives the emotions a key part in cognitive processes, and demanding that the Dualism so popular in science that follows Descartes is consigned to the history books.If you are not entirely convinced that emotion plays a part in our most logical thought processes, consider these 2 points: 1.
Without the feeling that we know we would not be so sure that we think.
