https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1295179.The_Little_Dictionary_of_Fashion
Here are some of my favorite gems of wisdom from this little book on fashion:AgeThere is a slight difference in a woman's way of dressing before and after marriage, too.
Care in wearing them.
VarietyWhen you have a favorite dress there is no reason why you should not wear it often.The Way Your WalkIt is ridiculous to wear beautiful clothes and then slouch along or sit in a slovenly manner so that they quickly become creased like rags.YellowJust like the other colors, there is a shade of yellow for everyone--but you have to take the trouble to find it.
This is a cute book to have on display around your home. It contains actual fashion terminology as well as fun tips to dress for your body as well as some cute little words and entries. Though simple on the outside the inside contains a lot of cool vintage fashion drawings to inspire all retro fashionistas out there. Quirky fun book to pick up and browse through.
"Simplicity, good taste and grooming are the three fundamentals of good dressing."A very useful reference book for all women (yes, only for women).
As a bonus, the reader also can enter Dior’s mind and have a glimpse of what was like to live and get dressed in the 1960’s.
We just have to keep in mind that Dior, despite being highly advanced for his time, still was a man living in the 1950’s and 1960’s, so of course he tends to say inappropriate things for women of the 21st century.
Important things I learned from this book: one needs a beautiful dressing gown b/c it is the first thing you wear to start the day; purple is for old women (I guess I have been old my entire life); everyone should learn to walk--"it is ridiculous to wear beautiful clothes and then slouch along or sit in a slovenly manner".
a funny and somewhat insightful step back in time. it was first published in 1954. one entry discusses how many women should go back and learn how to walk, because it is "ridiculous to wear beautiful clothes and then slouch along or sit in a slovenly manner so that they quickly become creased like rags." Can you imagine what Mr. Dior would think now?
Overall, I think it was really cute book for someone that wants to step back in time and see what was considered good or bad dressing. I give it 3/5 stars because it was lacking in practicality. Would make a cute gift, but is not to be taken too seriously.Full Review: http://quirkygirllikesvintage.blogspo...
Cute little book with all of the definitions of French and common fashion words explained.

Since this book was published in the 50's (one of my favorite fashion styles ever) it may seem a bit old for newest generations. Talking about hats and gloves which we don't wear regullarly anymore. But I loved reading about the sense of style and uses of different fabrics. For me the 50's were all about elegance and accetuating the beauty of the female figure, whichever size or shape it has. And this little dictionary describes how to use every element of fashion towards this goal.
What i love about the book is the essence of every tips. However, if he can explain a little bit more, it will help me understand deeper. I read kindle version black and white then i can not see how fancy in the colors of Dior's costumes.
I LOVE it! I've always liked the '50s, and here is a book by the head honcho himself! Interspersed with lovely drawings and pictures of Dior styles on impeccably groomed models. Good advice, too. Certainly I haven't seen anything newer that debunks any of this.
Made me want to buy custom gloves.
Not a great reference source but an interesting read for sure
Genevieve Dariaux의 Guide to Elegance랑 비슷한 포맷으로 쓰인 책. 근데 더 별로임.
This was super interesting and helpful!
Salut, mon bien-aimé Christian Dior
Monsieur Dior surely had great advices on Fashion/ Style for women. Many of them last forever
Book that every woman should read <3
Great if your goal is to research on Dior's thoughts on fashion or post-war fashion culture - hence the 2 stars. It's an OK book, not too interesting, but utterly outdated
If you love fashion you will love this book, even though some advices are outdated you can learn a lot about style with this book, Christian Dior really understood the business he had
This little tome was charming, but it is severely dated and obviously a product of its time. I can't remember the last time that I heard someone refer to a dress as a "frock," but this book used the word so many times that I've seen it enough for a lifetime. Language and era-specifics aside, I thought that many of the little passages contained quite good advice. Dior may be a bit of a conservative (who doesn't like colourful shoes - seriously), but he is absolutely correct in his advice regarding quality over quantity, practicality, and timeless elegance.
Obviously this is dated and in no way applies to fashion today - except, perhaps, for a few pieces of advice that are timeless (such as dressing your age). Nonetheless, it is an interesting read since it allows one to see what was considered fashionable in the Post-War era, at least for the sort of clientele for which Dior designed. All in all, I would say this is fun, engaging, and definitely educational as a piece of fashion history.
3.5 starsA book that I have had sitting on my shelf for probably 5 years now and decided to read because it would be quick, even though I am no longer particularly interested in fashion. Despite that, I will say I quite enjoyed this. Dior has a super charming writing style, very conversational. Since it was first published in 1954, some of the things mentioned were a bit outdated but I still enjoyed this.Also, the design of the book itself is FLAWLESS.
I decided to buy this book due to my love for fashion and one of the greatest fashion designers of all time, Monsieur Christian Dior.This is an amazing dictionary for all things fashion, as well as the incredible illustrates which further enhance this aesthetically pleasing book. Would be an amazing guide to pick up here and there, as well as a coffee table item !!
I can imagine inviting Christian over for a soirée dînatiore, and he would throw out these little gems like hors d'œuvres—authentic French canapés, 1950s-style!As for its current place on my reference shelf, I intend to capture an entry from time-to-time, and play with it until it takes a modern shape in my own designs. Why not?
It was delightful to flip through this book and marvel at how times have changed for fashion and women. Some advice is timeless, some is dated. It makes a great addition to a coffee table or bookshelf.
This is a beautifully designed book, with incredible tips for women. Become total retro and chic at the same time!
What can I say? It's Dior, so of course it's brilliant.
Am new to this how can I read the book
