https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7981.The_Long_Patrol
As a self-confessed Redwall nut it's probably not a good idea for me to review this book. But I'm going to anyway.I loved it. Bad is bad and good is good and there's very little messing about in the middle. You know that the goodies will win in the end, of course they will, although how they get there will be endlessly entertaining and inventive. Brian Jacques certainly knows how to write a hero....
I was reading some of the reviews previous to mine, and find it interesting that adults are complaining that the redwall books follow a formula/theme and are predictable.
that they all have the same premise- a horde threatens the serenity of redwall abbey.
to which I have to say this: duh.
these books were.
kids.
they deal with difficult subjects, war, death, honor, grief, injury, etc, in a manner that young kids can grasp and understand.
read war and peace.
I first read these books when I was around 8.
look at them with an 8 year old's eyes.
not an adult's eyes.
Quite good, I'm sure. There isn't much else to say about it, I'm afraid, for, seeing as all the Redwall books end up being more or less the same, I've already said everything by reviewing other books in the series.
The book starts at Camp Tussock where a young hare named Tamello (Tam for short) is trying to ease his wandering mind by acting as if he is fighting for the famed Long patrol.
She enlists the help of her friend named Russa to help Tam journey to the Long Patrol.
The pair of Russa and Tam soon hook up with a small scout unit of the Long Patrol on search for the horde.
Tam finally joins the Long Patrol and fulfills his dream while sadly his friend Russa is killed.Throughout the book you see Tam's character develop very quickly.
A fiesty youngster, seemingly always in trouble, Tammo runs away to join the Long Patrol with the help of his mother, and her old friend, a nomadic squirrel, Russa Nodrey.
Back at Redwall, a group of youngsters we met in "The Pearls of Lutra"--Tansy, Cracklyn and Arven--have grown into the elders of the Abbey.
Thankfully, Lady Cregga Rose Eyes, the badger leader of Salamandastron and the remaining Long Patrol hares are also in pursuit of the Rapscallion army...I thought "The Pearls of Lutra" was one of the more sad adventures in this series, but "The Long Patrol" definitely had a more somber tone as well.
This book deserves one star simply because by this point in the series (and in fact, by some time before), the books in the Redwall saga may as well be factory produced.
I don't criticize every single Hardy Boys book for being unoriginal because in a way, the goal of a series is to let you read the same book over and over again while telling yourself that it's 'different this time'.
Still, any repetition weakens a good foundation, and even as a child, by the time I got to this book in the series, all the fun had been soaked out.
Jacques’s tales are full of colorful language, beautiful imagery of Mossflower Woods and the surrounding country — and Redwall Abbey’s legendary food — and lovable characters.Jacques uses such very personal and localized character arcs to tell a much wider story.
Within this single novel we are given references to other figures of Redwall lore, like Martin the Warrior, Matthias, Sunflash the Mace, and Lord Brocktree.
To be reminded of these stories has only stoked my desire to revisit this world.Some of the narrative descriptions and character flourishes can feel on-the-nose.
But these are children’s stories meant to portray heroism, courage, and compassion.Full review available here: https://redstringpapercuts.com/2017/0...
Lady Cregga Rose Eyes could have been the best character ever. They kept talking her up, only for her to fall in a ditch twice.
Tammo dreams of joining the Long Patrol, an elite army of hares who fight for Salamandastron and its ruler Cregga Rose-Eyes.
The reality of this mostly consists of his friends dying around him as they struggle to contain the oncoming might of Damug Warfang's army of Rapscallion rats, intent on taking Redwall Abbey.
It's good to have a decent Abbey plot that isn't just 'solve the riddles to find the next Abbess,' plus there's plenty of Viola Bankvole action and Cracklyn/Tansy time as they pootle about underground looking for treasure #squadgoals.
Should have let Viola Bankvole be Abbey Warrior.
I was looking forward to watching Tammo go on this adventure to try to make his way onto the Long Patrol, but his storyline seemed to just peter out before he even got to Redwall Abbey.
Instead of staying with him, we're treated to lengthy asides about the crumbling south wall of Redwall Abbey and Lady Cregga at Salamandastron, both of which, for the most part, did not offer much in the way of character or plot development in my opinion.
Overall, it was hard for me to get through "The Long Patrol" primarily due to a lack of focus and character development.
Tammo dreams of joining the Long Patrol, the legendary army of fighting hares who serve Lady Cregga Rose Eyes, Ruler of Salamandastron.
And with Damug Warfang’s mighty battalion of savage Rapscallions on the rampage young Tammo’s dream is about to become a brutal reality…Like all the other Redwall books, this is bursting with adventure and action.
The childishness of the Dibbuns isn't as irritating as some other characters have been and it's as if the humour is more adult.
The focus on the Long Patrol rather than Redwall is also a welcome change of pace and makes the story feel fresh.
This tale of Redwall opens with the hare Tammo yearning to become a member of the eponymous Long Patrol at the dawn of spring. In the meantime, the main antagonist, Damug Warfang, leads his army of vermin up the coast. Furthermore, the southern wall of Redwall Abbey is derelict, with a subterranean chasm contributing to this, with the Long Patrol ultimately joining the Redwallers against Damug, a battle rounding out the book. It’s pretty much on par with other entries of the series, with endearing characters, although it continues to depict specific animals in black and white terms.
The main reason that I love this book is because it is a very attention gripping book. If you need to try out a new book, I seriously recommend trying this book out. The reason that I docked one star off the rating is because at some points, during the most exciting parts, Brian Jacques will switch the scene and you have to wait until he switches scenes again. But other than that, this is one of my favorite books.
Tempted to 5* just about all Redwall series. I even beat out the songs, usually in 4/4 march time, but rhythms vary. Sometimes I'm in such a rush to find out what happens next, I have to skip back to study the small illustrations before each chapter that bring the words alive. Author Jacques isn't afraid to thoroughly paint a person (including hares, squirrels) in depth, then bring tears to my eyes when valiant heroes sacrifice him/her-selves.
Someone at a party must've mistaken Brian Jacques for the author of Watership Down, and this blood orgy of zoological racial conflict was Brian's way of living down this perceived insult.
Epic. That's the first word that comes to mind when I think of this book. I won't spoil anything, but one particular battle scene was jam-packed with emotion and hyped up on the power of determination, one of my favorite story elements. The Long Patrol characters are the epitome of the motto 'never give up', and that stuck with me even till now, about a decade after reading the book.
I enjoy this series - definitely read as many as I could get my hands on when I was a kid. I still like the stories these tell, but it sometimes gets a little ham-fisted with the moralistic elements and the drama. Still an easy and enjoyable read though!
==============Original review:============== Quite good, I'm sure. There isn't much else to say about it, I'm afraid, for, seeing as all the Redwall books end up being more or less the same, I've already said everything by reviewing other books in the series.
A good story. A bit derivative of previous books in the series.
All of the Brian Jacques books are starting to blur together. Even so, I am really enjoying rereading this Redwall series.
You could read these books just for the hares, the food, and the capital way they stuff the vittles.
Read with Maggie, loved it. I met Mr. Jacques years ago and he was such an amazing character himself. Love the ‘realistic ‘ fantasy, he doesn’t hide the reality of battle or life.
Loved so many books in the series, but the humor and characters in this one made it a standout.
Brilliant, a perfect addition to the Redwall Saga.
The flair that Brian Jacques has for mesmerizing descriptive writing never fails him, and some of his most resplendently fashioned paragraphs appear in the pages of this tenth book of the Redwall saga.The Long Patrol is chronologically last of the first ten books, taking place after most of the principle players involved in the previous novel, Pearls of Lutra, have gone to the proverbial gates of the Dark Forest.
It's the only way to retain their freedom, and the freedom of their descendants.The Long Patrol is a pretty good story that contains some satisfying references to the history of the series as a reward to loyal fans who have read all ten books up to this point.
Story:Tamello De Fformelo Tussock is a young hare who dreams of joining the Long Patrol, a group of hares that serves Lady Cregga Rose Eyes, the badger who rules the stronghold of Salamandastron.
Even though both of Tammo's parents have served in the Long Patrol it takes Tammo's mother to convince an old friend, a squirrel named Russa, to get Tammo started on his journey.
If you want to take a break from elves, dwarves, and other traditional fantasy races then you should take a trip to Redwall Abbey.Caution:Characters are in peril and threatened with death.
Tammo is the main hero (well, all the hares are, really); Arven carries the Sword but is really not even focused on all that much.So, what with Russa carrying on about Tammo not being a killer and that he doesn’t have to join the Long Patrol, you would think that at the end of the book Tammo would not join the LP.
Cregga just grabs him and jumps; he doesn’t even get a prolonged fight or taunt.Overall,The Long Patrol is a great blend of humor, tension, and action with the ever-memorable hares as the stars and the continuation of a focused, overarching plot that has made certain Redwall books shine for me.
The Long Patrol is an action packed book filled with mystery and battle.
In this story Tammo, a young hare, runs away from home only to find himself in the Long Patrol, a group of perilous hares who fight evil.
There are multiple battles in the book, with both good and evil winning sporadically, keeping the reader guessing who will ultimately win.
The Long Patrol, and the other books in the series, are for more advanced middle grade readers.
It is an exciting book for those who can take a little blood and who can enjoy a good fight.
The Long Patrol is the 10th book in the Redwall series.
The end usually involves a decisive battle between the vermin and the inhabitants of Redwall Abbey with the aid of their allies, the hares of Salamandastron.This book, like its nine predecessors, is packed with action and witty one-liners.
Much of the violence is balanced out by the light hearted humor of the irrepressible hares.The Long Patrol, like other Redwall book espouses the ideals of selflessness, community, bravery and a purposeful life.
The book in the point of view of a hare named Tammo runs off with a skilled squirrel named Russa Nodrey.
While battling their way to Redwall, they soon meet hares of the Long Patrol and learned of the tale of the Rapscillions.
The Long Patrol hare of Salamandastron led by Cregga the badger warrior moves moves north in finding the Rapscillion army.
Tammo learns to be brave and what a Long Patrol hare was about.
In war, you would see your many friends killed beofre your very eyes.
In some peculiar way, war many toughen you up, but of course, it is not the best way to live life.
