https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11003.Eleven_on_Top
4 out of 5 stars to Eleven on Top, the 11th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series by Janet Evanovich.
This book was one of the more funny in the series, particularly for two reasons:Stephanie is being chased by someone who came back from the grave.
It's not a funny topic in real life, of course, but the author's style of writing and the way the character just leaps off the page, is hilarious.Forget substance.
It helps to have read a few books in the series so you know who each of the characters are...
Many thanks to their original creators.
If someone had me tied down and was burning me with a hot poker I would consider the button factory then, but she didn't even slow down or have PTSD after that (a few books ago).
It felt like the author just wanted to change things up for a bit so let's watch Stephanie bumble through silly jobs instead for a book.yeah, that's a problem too..But, I had to add a star because I fell completely in love with Ranger in this book.
Shut up!)More like spontaneous combustion..Ranger and Morelli already have a time-share plan when it comes to Stephanie's safety.
This was a good plum novel a little bit different than the previous books in the series. I really didn't expect the ending and that was surprising but got to live Stephanie Plum!:)
Even when she decides she's going to dump the job and get another, Steph still tries hard at every job she gets.
Anyone who has ever worked in that industry knows how hard that can be.
Steph takes the bad guy down herself.Re-read again.
5/24/16 Reread—May 2018Steph is once again cohabing with Morelli.
But Ranger is getting closer.
Every job gets worse and worse.
Finally she ends up working for Ranger while they hunt the bad guy.
Someone is terrorizing Steph (again, right?) It gets a bit scary a few times, but luckily she has Ranger.
Oh, and Morelli.
So what else can she do but work for hot bounty hunter extraodinaire Ranger?
Laski's picking you up in five minutes.''That give me five minutes to sleep,' Morelli said.'No!
Are you going to let me go to work like this?''Cupcake, I haven't got the energy to stop y ou.
Anyway, maybe if you look slutty enough, Ranger will take up some of the slack in the bedroom before you make a permanent cripple out of me.
Maybe you should wear that shirt with the neckline that lets your boobs hang out.' Morelli squinted at me.
I let someone at a library sale convince me to pick up a couple of her books, once she learned I'd never read the author.
She handed me what felt like ten, and I discretely put a few back when she wasn't looking.
Reading the back cover of this book, I kind of think I should've put this one back, too.
So, I really was expecting to hate this.Skimming the other reviews, I see a lot of complaints that the Stephanie Plum series is formulaic.
Stephanie Plum is a fantastic character.
No, "No, no, Stephanie, you must choose!" Why was I not reading these before?So, there you go.
There really isn't much to say about these books. They follow a formula and require minimal effort and brain power, perfect for stressful baseball postseason reading when your favorite team is trying to kill you with heart attack baseball. These books are comfort food without the calories, carbs, and sugar.
Enough of chasing bad guys, wrestling them to the ground, having them shoot at her and always ending up covered in garbage.
So Stephanie Plum quits her job as a bounty hunter.
She can’t seem to keep a job.
She temporarily works at the button factury, a fast food place, a dry cleaners, before landing a gig at a security company, with the very good looking Ranger as her boss.
Assuming bad guys would stop coming after her once she left the bond enforcement world, she tries very hard to ignore the notes and gifts left for her by someone who she believed was dead.
Quick and easy read.
Looking forward to the next one.
Romantic, Sexual Tension, Suspense & Funny!!! A Fun Read! I Loved It!
Well you would!Unfortunately for Stephanie, her friends and the manic who is trying to kill her won't let that happen.I love the banter between Stephanie and the two men in her life - Joe Morelli: 'six feet of lean, hard muscle and hot Italian libido' (p8) and Ranger: 'hot and mysterious and oozes testosterone' (p74).Stephanie and Joe Morelli -'''I need happy food.''''You should have called,'' he said hooking his finger into the neckline of my white tank, pulling the neck to take a look inside.
I could set a new land speed record for getting happy.'''(p9)Stephanie and Ranger -'I crawled under the covers and pulled the quilt over my head.
The Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich is incredible.Fun characters.
The fragile and intense team effort between Ranger and Morelli becomes interesting when Stephanie accepts an office job by Ranger.
He was Special Forces, and that’s about all anyone knows about Ranger.Mrs. Plum and Grandma Mazur finally have their special moment.
If you have read the books in order, you will appreciate Mrs. Plum being licked silly from drinking and instigating a cake food fight with her mother and pulls in Stephanie and her father.“Excuse me?” my mother said.
I don’t know where to begin.”“That’s it,” Grandma said, narrowing her eyes.
"Eleven" smacks of one of those books any of us could have written -- just take snippets out of each of the other ten, slap 'em together in almost random order and you wouldn't be far off.
She fantasizes she can play the cello, then actually tells her family she can (despite being unable to even recognize one!), which leads to what little fresh hilarity the book has on display.
Maybe we're just "Plum" full of this series.
A Stephanie Plum "Mystery." Stephanie quits her job as a bounty hunter, yet, despite this, continues to fail at common sense.
Lula gets promoted and somehow proves to be even worse at the job than Stephanie.
Morelli is hot and strangely calm.
Ranger is hot and doing his best to save Stephanie from herself.
I wasn't even mad when Stephanie intentionally shot a guy in the foot for no reason.
I didn't blink when Stephanie's apartment was broken into for the nth time and she kept going back inside.
It's just that hot.Two stars.
Until next time.
You're in a relationship, you chose to be in it and do seem to enjoy it; so, like, stop letting the other guy kiss you.In spite of that, though, I love everybody in these books.
And I love following them around, and this book was, to me, a lot more about following everyone around and 'hanging out with them' than about the mystery plot.Which is cool.
And when I got to the end of that preview, I had to throw the book out in the yard.
:: 5 Gut-Busting Stars ::Oh man do I love reading the Stephanie Plum series.
In Eleven on Top, Stephanie Plum finally decides she has had enough of bounty hunting.
So, she hops from one job to another- the button factory, cluck-in-a bucket, and more!
But, do these jobs actually keep her safe?
Maybe it’s not the apprehension job that keeps her unsafe after all.
I simply cannot get enough of this series.
When I need a break from drama filled book I know this is the series that I go to.
Therefore, I highly recommend this book AND the entire series.
Eleven on top by Janet Evanovich is the 11th Stephanie Plum mystery. Bounty hunter Stephanie Plum quits after being assaulted too many times on the job, but finds that she is still being shot at and her vehicles blown up. Another funny and very entertaining book. Stephanie just doesn't seem to have much luck with her jobs or cars. A quick read which had me laughing throughout.
Stephanie Plum is thinking her career as fugitive apprehension agent has run its course.
Time for a change, Stephanie thinks.
So Stephanie Plum quits.
As it turns out, jobs that are safe and normal for most people aren't necessarily safe and normal for Stephanie Plum.
After disturbingly brief careers at the button factory, Kan Klean Dry Cleaners, and Cluck-in-a-Bucket, Stephanie takes an office position in security, working for Ranger, the sexiest, baddest, bounty hunter and businessman in two continents.
It might not be the job she'll keep for the rest of her life, but for now, it gives her the technical access she needs to find her stalker.
Can Stephanie Plum take the heat?
Stephanie is beginning to question where her life is going and makes the drastic decision to quit her job as a bounty hunter.
Her next job at a dry-cleaning establishment ends when the owner takes a semi-automatic and tries to shoot her, and her try at a fast-food restaurant ends in disaster when she manages to set the place on fire.
Ranger finally steps in and offers Stephanie a job with him, which gives her the chance to try to find out who's after her while under the protection of bad-boy Ranger.
What a fun series this is.
I know some of my friends started to get tired of the series after awhile, but I actually do think the books keep getting better (or maybe it's just that my mindset about them has changed enough that I'm enjoying them more).Oddly, one of the biggest complaints I've heard about the series is how the whole love triangle just drags on and on...
Sure, I don't find the reactions of some of the characters to be terribly realistic, but for the length of the book, I'm willing to suspend my disbelief (especially for what are, essentially, humor books masquerading as mysteries).
Must work on getting him to read the books too!
I hate not being able to finish books, but this time I just couldn't get in to the book.
Maybe my tastes have changed.
Maybe it was the wrong book at the wrong time.
All I know is all of the characters got on my nerves.
Lula (who I used to love) is just stupid.
I guess I just don't think there is any growth in the characters.
They all say and do the same things every book.
I loved the first 10, but I just can't get excited about reading anymore in this series.
NON HO MAI RISO COSI' TANTO (E IN MODO COSI' SGUAGLIATO) COME IN QUESTO ROMANZO!!!Stephanie al suo top (Il titolo lo prometteva!), Morelli e Ranger più sexi che mai e così tante situazioni paradossali che ve la farete sotto dalle risate!!Aaaah, è bello tornare a casa da te, Janet!
The Stephanie Plum books are just such a guilty pleasure for me. I can't help myself. They are just so damn entertaining!
Stephanie has hit hard times.
Stephanie blows up a car, or two, Stephanie fails to apprehend someone due to blatant stupidity, Grandma Mazur tries to lift a casket, Ranger says "Babe", a lot, Lula eats while wearing too tight spandex, so on and so forth.
I suppose reading the same tried and true scenarios would become redundant to some, but for me, it's much like slipping on my much worn and oh so loved pjs.
Morelli, I thank vati that Stephanie hasn't chosen.
1. Stephanie whacks a mole...
Stephanie clucks in Cluck in a Bucket 3.
Grandma Mazur vs.
Evanovich is back on track with this one. At first it seemed to be just the same ol', same ol' but about a quarter or a third of the way in it changed. Some absolutely hilarious scenes, more than just quips, but entire scenes. Pretty good mystery too.
Loved it!
Juste la lecture dont j'avais besoin, et accessoirement un tome qui m'a bien fait marré !
I listen to the audiobook and this series continues to provide some good laughs. With some series I would already be burnt out by book #11. Fortunately that has not happened. On to #12!
I picked up the next few books on CD in the series at my local library to pass the long hours on the road.
The narrator brought the characters into a whole new realm for me, and I finally couldn’t get enough of the books.I can’t remember exactly which book in the series I was on, but I was heading out of town again, and wanted to put another one behind me – I mean, I really needed more hijinks of Lula and Stephanie, not to mention more descriptions of Joe and Ranger!
I love these books. They seriously make me laugh out loud. And I am always torn between Ranger and Morelli. Yum!
This was a very funny Stephanie Plum book. I was laughing out load at several parts. It amazes me that Evanovich never runs out of material for this series. I also loved the interactions with Ranger and Morelli, never a dull moment!
