https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298848.Gandhi_On_Non_Violence
This is a great book, though a bit of an unusual structure. After the Preface and a 30 page introduction by Thomas Merton, the bulk of the book is quotes Gandhi's massive 2-volume "Non-violence in Peace and War.""Gandhi on Non-Violence" does give a nice overview to Gandhi's thoughts, including much in his own words. Many of the quotes are quite powerful. The introduction by Merton, too, is quite good and worth reading. In the end, this is well worth the couple of hours it took to read it.
Gandhi, connu aussi sous le titre de Mahatma « grande âme » nous expose dans la voie de la non-violence certains évènements qui ont changé le cours de sa vie.
Gandhi veut juste partager avec nous ses pensées et la manière dont il a mené sa quête à la vérité qui était le but même de sa vie, comme il le dit dans cette citation : « Ma vie, mes actes et mon être tendent à la recherche de ce but (vérité) ».
Pour Gandhi, la non-violence (ahimsa) n’est pas un simple principe d’ordre philosophique, elle est la base même et l’âme de toute sa vie.
Distinguir la no-violencia de sus malentendidos, llegar a comprender profunda y auténticamente que se trata de la actividad más digna del hombre, y el enorme trabajo que implica...
Aga see meenutab inimest, kes on oma kõhu iivelduseni maiuspalu täis söönud ja lahkub lauast ainult selleks, et kahekodse isuga jälle tagasi tulla, niipea, kui iiveldus möödas on.lk 33 Pommi ei saa hävitada kontrapommiga, samuti nagu vägivalda ei saa hävitada kontravägivallaga.lk 34 Naise osaks on õpetada rahukunsti sõdivale maailmale, mis otse januneb selle nektari järele.lk 38 Naised peavad näitama, milliseks jõuks võivad nad maailmas olla.
Kuid seda ainult siis, kui te lakkate olemast meeste jõudeaja mängukannid.
Mehi ahvides ei muutu te meesteks, kuid kaotate seejuures võime olla teie ise ning aendada oma sünnipärast talenti, mis on teile Jumalast antud.

It's rather complicated -- Gandhi says it's better to kill than to be non-violent out of fear (cowardice is definitely worse to him) -- and there are a number of surprises along with the many nuances I was unaware of.I got this from the library because it was cited in a footnote in Bruno Barnhart's The Good Wine: Reading John from the Center -- but for Thomas Merton's introduction, "Gandhi and the One-Eyed Giant." That's a very dense, 20-page introduction that would certainly benefit from re-reading.
I didn't care for his fragmentary editing, but literally half the book is Merton's great essay "Gandhi and the One-Eyed Giant," written at the Abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky in 1960.
It's one of his best essays, better by far than his pompous autobiography, which in my view is marred by "convertitis." This is Merton after 20 years in a monastery, marinaded in silence, song, and increasingly in Zen.Gandhi, Meister Eckhart, and DT Suzuki revolutionized Merton.
What Gandhi says about the countless shapes of violence in our lives -- far from just physical violence -- is relevant long after Indian independence and the days of MLK.
many of the quotes are well out of context and leave you scratching your head - as the power or utility of the quote must certainly be better against some complementary backdrop.personally, this didn't reinforce any perspective of gandhi other than to maybe wonder if he wasn't at some level more naive than we give him credit for.
some of the quotes in here re: fascism made me wonder if he was really aware of the evil that was being perpetrated and if he would still share that perspective if he knew what was going on.
Actually, the book I read was a compilation of Gandhi's writings on non-violence edited by Thomas Mercer called GANDHI ON NON-VIOLENCE.
Mercer's essay on Gandhi is fascinating, and the book offers a good introduction to the philosophy and practice of non-violence.
Occasionally, the expressions are overly aphoristic, and they start to get a bit repetitive at the end, but overall, the work offers solid insight into Gandhi's movement.
Still, the idea is a marvel, and the book has inspired me to continue to work on unifying my own meager spirit so that I may better love my brothers and sisters on this earth...
Read this book for my history of political thought class.
It was a very short read; I managed to finished it in a little over an hour.
The book was just selected quotes from Gandhi with nothing really stringing them together.
It was more of a "Quotable Gandhi" than anything else.
I was frustrated with the lack of content as the short selections Merton included in the book were repetitive and variations on a theme.
However, it is a nice book to have around if you're one of those people like me who just like quotations.
A great summery of Gandhi's works "Non-Violence in Peace and War". It really catches the difference between non-violence as a state of one's heart and passive resistance which is done merely for political means by those too weak to overpower their enemy. The later will return to violence as soon as they have the means. Non-violence of the heart is successful even when it's outward objectives are not achieved.
This book is the Cliff's Notes to Gandhi on Non-Violence. It is editied by Thomas Merton who was a Trappist monk. What Thomas Merton writes in one sentence would take me 5 paragraphs to express- now couple that with Gandhi's journey and tokens of wisdom; you have the longest 88 page book written. The introduction alone was impressive.
"Belief in non-violence is based on the assumption that human nature in its essence is One and therefore unfailingly responds to the advances of Love."Excellent book, it gives the reader hope again for love in the world. It has selections of writings of Mahatma, which i found myself reading 1 or 2 at a time, putting the book down and thinking about. Introduction by Thomas Merton.
Things that struck me:Gandhi vowed never to eat more than 5 articles of food in a 24 hour period. He kept the vow for life.Gandhi said, "Noncooperation with evil is as much a duty as is cooperation with good."In prison for 2 years, "he read dozens of books, conducted a voluminous correspondence, and generally seemed to have remarshaled his strength."
I read this book when I was very young, and it had a great impact on me. Ever since I have found myself inadvertently quoting Gandhi more than once through my life.I high recommend it! It will open your mind, and if you are lucky it will help you to view people and the world in general from other perspective.
I never get tired of Gandhi- the quotations are great for stimulating discussion in Youth Council.Also, Thomas Merton- so good!
This is a really good book. Gandhi gives the best arguments, with different examples from articles he has written. The non-violence philosophy is amazing.
A compilation, almost a digest of quotes...
Es posible la concepción en estos tiempos del ahimsa?
essential
Gandhi's writing on nonviolence, as selected by Catholic monk Thomas Merton. A great introduction to ahimsa.
Nema moćnih i nemoćnih ljudi, svi imaju snagu u sebi koju možda još nisu otkrili.
Another one for the important-but-dry shelf.
Very helpful and informative especially for Thesis Papers
Interesting, but I felt the book was written to try to say Gandhi was a good person with great ideals, but here's Christianity which might be better for some reason. Misleading.
This is a great collection of quotes on Gandhi's application of ahimsa, especially if the reader is interested in highlights.
B C2 R6
great intro to Gandhian nonviolence through brief quotations
Merton's introduction to Gandhi is vivid and deep. His edited collection of Gandhi quotes is very good.
