https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/910507.Last_Flight
It was a great book, but I wanted to know more of what she was feeling and even more about her relationship with her husband.
The book was mainly a log of her flying, landing and departing.
You come to find while reading this book that Amelia was very corky and silly.
I'm not going to critic it's writing and its grammatical errors, because well, it's Amelia, she can do whatever she wants, lol.
Anyways, if you love Amelia and want to know more about her trip, her last flight, this book is incredible for that.
She makes you feel like a close friend as she sends dispatches and updates from various stops around the world.
In fact, she gathers such momentum and has such continued success that, even when you know how this story ends, it is wrenching to reach the last chapter and find -- nothing.I loved reading about her love of airplanes, and I was enthralled by the description of her mammoth (to me) airplane -- an order of magnitude heavier than the little Cessnas that I fly, and with a fuel capacity of 1150 gallons (the Cessna holds 40)!And here, this bit of her attitude towards risk: "The time to worry is three months before a flight.
Last Flight is the last book written by Amelia Earhart, before her disappearance somewhere over the South Pacific.
Amelia, and her copilot, Fred Noonan, disappeared on the most difficult leg of the trip, from Lae, New Guinea, to Howland Island.
Why not pick a larger Marsahll Island to land on and, from there, fly to Hawaii?
The abrupt ending of the book emphasizes the tragedy and a world bereft of Amelia.Not much more than a month ago I was on the other shore of the Pacific, looking westward.
And I have a feeling that, had Ameila made it back to California, all of her recollections about her groundbreaking flight around the world would have been edited and put together into a proper book.As you know (SPOILER ALERT) Amelia did not make it back to California.
I will try not to take any of these amazing things for granted when I fly (in a tiny little composite sport aircraft that weighs about 600 pounds soaking wet and can only carry 22 gallons of gas)!
I have always been fascinated by Amelia Earhart.
I saw this book at a library book fair- very old, stamped discarded- and had to read it.
Ameila was a very progressive woman, far ahead of her time.
This book, which was really a travelogue of this last, ill-fated flight, showed her enthusiasm, courage and sense of adventure.
She planned to return from her flight to Purdue University, where she hoped to encourage women to go into scientific fields.
Womanhood lost a real trail blazer and a model for future woman when her plane went down.
Quick and excellent read. Her language certainly dates her, but it is appropriate for the time. Amazing insights in a small volume.
An interesting read - told in first person so it gives you a little bit of a glimpse into how she thought about things.
I don't know how they got the information to write the book.
I liked it because it was Amelia Earhart, and let's face it - she was amazing.
But, let's also face this, she was a pilot, not a writer.
I wouldn't want a writer to fly a plane either.
So, although it wasn't amazing writing, that's not what she set out to do anyway - she wanted to write a log of her travel around the world, and that's just what this is.
I like imagining the people who held this copy and wondered just as I did about this great pilot - female explorer of the whole world.**
The book consists mostly of the notes and stories she sent back during the 40-odd days of her attempted flight around the world prior to her disappearance in 1937.
What I found most fascinating is that you get a real sense of how she presented herself to the world -- very willing to talk in a chatty, conversational way about flying and the everyday experiences they had, but rarely venturing below the surface.
In that respect, and for what it reveals about the challenges and exhilarations of that last flight, it's fascinating.
If you wanna learn more about Amelia than just her flighing abilitys then you need to read this book. It feels like you go back in time when Amelia Earhart was born and go though her life. From her childhood, education, wishes and goals in life, and other jobs she might of had but that's not it you also learn how Amelia got so interested in flighing and how she got so famous. The tragic ending to Amelia sums it all up in the end. So it you are interested in Amelia this is the book for you!
I have always been intrigued by Amelia's sense of adventure and views on life. The plan was to call this book "World Flight" but it was changed to "Last Flight" after her disappearance one her way to Howland Island in July 1937. Her husband, George Palmer Putnam, published it from her notes. She would send maps, notes, etc. back home during her round the world flight. It is good to read her own words and thoughts as she and Fred Noonan made their journey around the world.
I loved reading this knowing they were her own words but tragedy covered every comment she made about the future - so sad. I'm anxious now to find a good companion book about the search - I'll go blog-surfing and see what I can find.
This was a good book. Written by Amelia Earhart about her last flight around the world. She would send home her descriptions and notes throughout the trip. It got a little technical in parts for me, but it was interesting to see all the work that went into that trip.
Even when you know how it's going to end there's suspense. You begin to wonder if maybe this remarkable woman will pull it off anyway. Even as you hear her say, "next time" over and over again and wish you could tell her to do whatever it is right now.
This was a great read but not quite as personal as I thought it would be. Amelia fans definitely should read this as she writes honestly about her flights leading up to her disappearance.
She was a pilot nit a writer but I was hoping it would be more personable.
Always been a fan of Amelia Earhart since I was a child. This book details her last flight. Wonderfully written book.
Really interesting to read the round-the-world flight from AE's point of view. :)
So far really enjoying this!
