https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241823.Women_Who_Run_With_the_Wolves
The Wild Woman is between bars inside each one of us, howling and scratching her way out, demanding that she has time to create art, to heal, to protect her territory, to guide, to give life, to mourne, to make love, to laugh scandelously with no shame, to live with no boundries, to teach, to carry wisdom, and to trust her intuition and instincts.As a child, hearing the traditional fairy tales and reading Russian children's books, I remember never caring for the handome king, or the beautiful maiden, or the innocent mother; i was always obsessed with the evil charachters: the wolf, the vampire, the witch (especialy Baba Yaga), and the devil.
Her visits to the office were ludicrous; she used to prance around, puffed up like a little marshmallow, waiting for everyone to fall at her feet.Shockingly, Clarissa (upon whom some of us bestowed a nickname that was, um, less than flattering, and which you can probably figure out) never wrote another book that got the slightest amount of attention (unless you count The Gift of Story, a little nothing of a book that she tossed out in a couple of weeks just in time for the Christmas rush.
New podcast episode reviewing this book! Check it out! http://arielbissett.com/booksunbound
After a few months of being shredded mentally and creatively by the people I'd expected to lean on for support and physically by the demands of moving to a new country, I was at a horrible place, alternating between periods of blind rage and near suicidal depression, and for the first time in my life I was watching my ability to create dim and all but vanish.
My level of self-awareness as both a woman and a product of my culture has reached a new peak, and through Estés' writing I have made one of the most difficult and empowering decisions of my life.
Yeah yeah, the book may be seen as a cry of independence for all women out there who need to get in touch with their "wild" side.However, my reservations:- The author tried to say that women should be who they are, but continually portrayed one single type of women: women who had artistic urges, thick thighs and who had always felt like they were born from the wrong parents.So, if you are a skinny archivist who had a decent childhood and no artistic talents, there's something terribly wrong with your psyche.- The author makes assertions and that is all.
She may think she is not, but it's only because it's hidden in her subconscious or she needs psychoanalysis".- I really mean it, the assertions-with-no-evidence just permeates the whole book.
Yes.I want to carry copies of this book around and hand them out, proselytorily, to everyone woman I encounter who feels confined, constrained, and soul-sick.
It really has been a gift to me.There is lots of gender essentialism in here, but for some reason I don't care.
we thought it might have to do with her practice of putting essentialisms in the context of universal archetypes that we can accept or reject as we choose.
Whatever it is, I can't say anything about this book other than that I love it.
I personally got the book as a cheerful joke from my dad one Christmas, and I thought to myself, "gag me!"2) But: Once I read it, I realized how smart this book is.
(Eg, I learned the ever-useful term piloerection here.) What this book is is a master-key to the pictorial language that our right brain "speaks," (via dreams, myths, stories & films), particularly when we are in trouble.
It's a guidebook to the picture language and the narrative logic of our right brain and even if you think the author is a little full of herself, which I personally do, it doesn't matter.
Story greases the hoists and pulleys, it causes adrenaline to surge, shows us the way out, down, or up, and for our trouble, cuts for us fine wide doors in previously blank walls, openings that lead to the dreamland, that lead to love and learning, that lead us back to our own real lives as knowing wildish women.
But the shadow of Wild Woman still lurks behind us during our days and in our nights.
(c)Q:The doors to the world of the wild Self are few but precious.
I know that authors often have nothing to do with how their books are advertised, and perhaps I should have read the introduction before I bought it or something, but it *still* isn't fair that I wasted my money on a book chock-full of Jungian psychoanalysis when what is advertised and what I expected was a book about the literary and mythological archetype of the wild woman.
I understand what she's attempting to do, I know she isn't ignorant of these facts, and I can appreciate the worth and need of a focus on women's psychology, but this just doesn't work for me.
“I hope you will go out and let stories, that is life, happen to you, and that you will work with these stories... water them with your blood and tears and your laughter till they bloom, till you yourself burst into bloom.” Three times in my life this book found its way into my greedy little hands at a time when I needed it most. Every woman should own a copy of this book. Women Who Run With the Wolves is a collection of short stories/ fairytales interspersed with commentary by the author. It s
Three times in my life this book found its way into my greedy little hands at a time when I needed it most.
It takes really painful experiences, swallows them, then regurgitates them into metaphors and stories my heart could hear and respond to.It's hard to talk about this book without getting into really personal details about why it means so much to me.
This was the second time Running with Wolves found me in need of nourishment.
This isn't a book to be deliberately read.
It is a book that you stumble across, a book that a friend lends to you in a time of need.
على قائمة الإنتظار حتى يسمح المزاجمعرفش ليه طول مانا فاتحة الكتاب أوبرا كارمن في وداني خصوصاً الجزء ده وضحكة كارمن مسيطرة ع الموقف :D:Dنوع من التمرد الممتع ربما :P"/>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lspRhX...
Every feminist/spiritual/literature/writing related teacher I've ever had has told me I should read this book, so I finally did.
The ideas are wonderful, but the writing is obnoxious.
After reading 200 pages of this I wondered how much shorter the book would've been if she'd cut out even half the unnecessary adjectives and repeated translations.
Maybe this makes me a shitty feminist, but this book is really annoying.
I gave it 3 stars because I still think some of the ideas in it are really good, and maybe one day I'll try reading it again when I've developed greater patience.
Her "insanın" okuması gerektiğini düşündüğüm kitap.
İnsan dedim zira köklerinin, ruhunun derinliğinin farkında olmayıp günlük hayatın yeknesaklığında özünü unutma eşiğine gelenler için rehber niteliğinde.
Kadınlardan bahsediyor belki ama içindeki öykülerde insanlığa dair yerinde tespitler var.
Yarının yetişkinlerini yetiştiren kadına düşen ödevleri, ve kadınları anlamak isteyenleri içine çekecek bir girdap Metafor katılmadığım yerler az da olsa var.
Fakat geneli, öyküler çok keyifliydi.
Yazarın kendine has bir anlatım üslubu var.
Simgeselliğin çok fazla olması, okuyacağınız hikayeye yazarın yorumunu okurken fark edecekleriniz saşırtıcı olabilir.
Bazı yerlerde tıkandığımı hissetsem de belirli bir zaman geçtikten sonra yeniden okumak niyetindeyim.
Şarap gibi bir kitap velhasıl, okudukça yeni ufuklara yelken açabileceğiniz..
I pick it up from time to time to look over a chapter of this or that - it affected the way I think about other fables and even the movies.
I was rereading this book about the same time I saw that movie.
for me, that made it very accessible.Some chapters resonated deeply, others not so much - I think it would be different for each individual reader.
I read this book at a time of great searching within myself for answers, and if you are at that kind of a point in your life, I would recommend it.
Juicy and satisfying, this book is for any woman who feels an urge to connect with wild and ancient concepts of what it means to be female: messy, raw, and full of luminously passionate creative energy. If this book doesn't make you want to howl out loud, I'm not sure what will!
"زنانی که با گرگها میدوند" نوشته روانشناس آمریکایی کلاریسا پینکولا استس در باره خوی وحشی یا طبیعی زنان که به دست قوانین مرد ساخته دچار محدودیت و در حال از بین رفتن است ميباشد.."حیات وحش و زن وحشی هردو گونه هایی در حال انقراض اند."دکتر استس که پیشینه اش به یک خانواده پناهنده مکزیکی تباربرمیگردد با وام گرفتن از قصه های کهن که نسل به نسل چرخیده اند و با تکیه بر دانش روانشناسی و بخصوص علاقه به یونگ به عنوان استادش در این زمینه به تجزیه و تحلیل اعماق وجودی زن پرداخته و با باور بر اینکه زن در طول زمان زندگی طبیعی خودش را یا وقف کرده و یا از دست داده تلاش در برگرداندن این درون وحشی دارد.
I learned a lot from this book. The big ideas for me were:1. "even if the mother vine is damaged, it doesn't mean her children are"and 2. "it will never hurt you to go after something you want or something that is calling to you"The books is sort of a slow-read, but I find the author generous and familiar and enjoyed the way she reconstructed women's psychology through myth. It's good to have new (complete?) stories in my mind as well.
zira ders gibi ama sıkıcı değil, gayet akıcı ve bildiğiniz bir şeyi okusanız bile oldukça keyifli -ki bu kitapta yazan her şeyi "biliyor" olmanız da pek mümkün değil zaten.
ufuk açıcı bir kitap.update yaparken yazdığım gibi, kırmızı ayakkabılar masalının geçtiği bölüm çok güzeldi; hala da favorim o.
ama bu asla sabit değil bence.
zira bu kitabı okudum, bitirdim diye rafa kaldırıp unutmak pek mümkün değil.
sürekli açıp açıp rastgele bölümleri okuyabilir, özellikle zor zamanlarda bir rehber gibi kullanabilirsiniz.
dolayısıyla okurun yaşı ilerledikçe, tecrübeleri çoğaldıkça zevk aldığı bölümün de değişeceği kanısındayım.velhasıl zor oldu ama asla pişman değilim okuduğuma.
نساء يركضن مع الذئاب ...يُجسد هذا الكتاب فكرة سعي المرأة للتصالح مع ذاتها الوحشية، الذات الوحشية هي الكائن الحي الذي يعيش فينا، يدفعنا للتقدم و هي الروح الحارسة التي تعتني بنا، هي ما يدفعنا للقيام بالمغامرات و التحديات للقيان بالإنجازات لتي نريدها.الذات الشافية التي تقف بجانبنا لتخلق ولادة الحياة من جديد بعد أن يحل فينا الموت " موت مرحلة ما"(دورة الحياة/الموت /الحياة، بعد كل تجربة قاسية نمر بها هناك ولادة لحياة جديدة).
pfft.
The book could have been a lot shorter with an editor, but then it would have lacked Dr. Estes' personality, which I came to appreciate with a rather grudging affection, although at first I found it too gushy.
Many myths survive because they are timeless and adaptable to the changes of culture - had she taken the time to think about how the story may have spoken to women whose faith enabled them to believe in a Western religion while clinging to the ancient folklore of their ancestors, she may have been able to elucidate yet deeper meanings within them.

''Neden hep benim başıma geliyor?'' sorusunu sorduğunuz her seferinde açıp bir bölümünü okuyabilirsiniz. Kendinizi hapsolmuş hissettiğiniz döngülerin farkına varabilmek ve onlardan kaçabilmek için, elini omzunuza koyup dostça sıvazlayan, cesaret veren bir kitap.Yaşamayı ve ölmeyi, gülmeyi ve haykırmayı, yas tutmayı ve neşeyle dans etmeyi, gece yarısı ormanda yapayalnız kalmayı ve güvenli bir sığınak bulmayı arzulayan herkes aradığı bir şeyler bulacaktır kitapta. Bu kitap özellikle kadınlar için yazılmış olsa da kesinlikle sadece kadınlar için bir kitap değil, her insanın yüzleşmesi gereken vahşi yanıyla tanışması için iyi bir fırsat olabilir diye düşünüyorum.
Poetry! I so enjoy Estes's use of language and imagery and the various interpretations of stories and the universal and profound themes hidden underneath the layers of seemingly simple stories. I think this book is very important for women to read, especially for women who must protect and guide their daughters. My favorite story is Sealskin, Soulskin about a young seal/woman who loses her self in someone else's dream and finally finds the courage to pursue her dream and enrich her life.
This is a fabulous book of almost 500 pages. It is described as..."Myths and Stories of the Wild Women Archetype. Written by Clarissa Pinkola Estes, Ph. D. It is a gift of profound wisdom and love. It is...'Full of wonderful passionate, poetic, psychologically potent words and images that will inspire, instruct, and empower women to be true to their own nature........ These are not my words but just a few of many on the back cover. It is almost like a bible and not an easy read but certainly worth dipping into now and then.
For those of us who struggle with life, expectations and how to be ourselves, this is a validation, a benediction. Saying yes this is you and you are beautiful and unique just as you are.
یک موجود بیرونی و یک مخلوق درونی.
موجود بیرونی در روشنایی روز زندگی می کند به راحتی قابل مشاهده است.
اغلب با فرهنگ ملموس انسانی مطابق است اما مخلوق درونی اغلب ناگهان ظاهر می شود و به سرعت ناپدید می شود و پشت سر خود احساسی عجیب و اعجاب آور به جا می گذارد، انگار دارای یک روح وحشی طبیعی است.
خوشتن وحشی هم به خودی خود خوب است اما آرزومند رابطه با دیگری است.از دست رفتن قدرت های روحی و عاطفی زنان ناشی از جدایی این دو طبیعت از یکدیگر و وانمود کردن به این است که دیگری وجود ندارد...
I do agree with both sides of the love/hate reviews as it is hard to read and the author does seem to be a bit over the top but I read it at a time in my life that I really needed a bit of a pep talk.
I definately agree that women have lost a bit of themselves as to what we used to be, but as the author says we a great at adapting and that's what we have done.
If I could buy this book for every woman in the world, I would.
This book will become your mother when you need a mother and there isn't one around.
Hell, it will be a mother you've never had.
A mother of all mothers, from the birth of time.
A book every woman needs to read, if only to know she's not alone but standing on the bones of all the other women who died for her so she could keep blazing her path, to make it easier for the women who'll come after her, our daughters.
I am really loving this book, it covers so much of what I already believed in/felt (and I'm not even finished but wanted to write something even if it be incoherent) such as listening to your intuition, instincts, the life/death/life cycle knowing something good can and will arise from something bad, but reading it in such a way with folk stories followed by analyses, embellish the ideas and make them more solid in my mind and unwavering, knowing others believe the same helps and allows these beliefs to stand up to the doubt which creeps in all of us from time to time.
