https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248540.Belles_on_Their_Toes
Their mother immediately went to work to preserve the business she and her husband had created, and the older children set about keeping the household running.
Some traditions they preserve (the family meetings), some they abandon (voluminous two-piece bathing suits).
Out of necessity they adopt earnest, often hilarious economies (every boy’s new suit required the approval of the next youngest brother who would eventually inherit it).
Their combative handyman Tom, who “don’t take nothing from nobody, understand?” is featured more in this book.The book wraps up with the adult children, all with their own families, worrying about their mother living alone, and are somewhat bemused to find that she’s enjoying it.
I loved this book.
It is the sequel to "CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN", and focuses on the Gilbreth family after their patriarch has passed away.
Lillian Gilbreth steps up to fulfill her husband Frank's role as head of family and supporter after he passes away.
The book tells the story of how the children (11 in all) pitch in to support their mother and each other to avoid being separated and adopted out.
Just as in "CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN" there were parts of this book that had me laughing / giggling out loud.
This is possibly more dated than the Sue Barton books - but what a barrel of laughs.
There's also some casual racism, mostly from Tom, which is discomfiting.The end of the book is probably the strongest part.
Anne gets married - the younger children start high school - their mother is a noted lecturer, which leads to uncomfortable, hilarious moments - and then the novel ends with a bang with their impromptu reunion.The authors' note is correct: this is the story of the Gilbreth family after Dad did.
And that means it is primarily the story of Mother.
This sequel isn’t quite as charming as Cheaper by the Dozen, but I still enjoyed reading about the continued adventures of the Gilbreth clan.Matriarch Lillian was such a formidable woman, not at all diminished by widowhood: carrying on Frank’s legacy, she set up her own motion study school in her home, travelled all over the world to give lectures, taught in the management department at Purdue, received a dozen honorary doctorates, and still took an active part in the lives of her twelve children.As they grow up, it’s touching to see the children taking on responsibilities and passing on lessons to each other.
Wonderful. I think I enjoyed this even a little more than Cheaper by the Dozen. So many wonderful stories from the life of this quite uplifting family.
Such a cute sequel! I still love the Gilbreth family!
Read this aloud with T.
Gilbreth Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, are totally different from the movies with Martin and Hunt but I still loved both the books and the movies.
I was really sad when I finished this book because I already missed the characters and their interesting and crazy lives.
This story follows where the last book left off; the beloved patriarch, Frank Bunker Gilbreth Sr., has died and has left his wife and eleven children to survive on their own.
Author's Note.) The studies of Mr. and Mrs. Gilbreth are very interesting and are a big part of the Gilbreth children's lives.
I just finished a juvenile biography of Lillian Gilbreth which mentioned the two books about the family that two of the kids wrote: Cheaper by the Dozen and Belles on their Toes.
I was only going to use it for the time filler but soon enough I discovered I had read the entire thing.
However, Mother came into her own in this book and the love, admiration, and respect the kids have for her is quite apparent.
This book is as funny as the first, and the love that the kids have for each other is as apparent.
Another golden one is "Ashtray Christmas", when the older siblings discover, from the oddly-shaped wrapped packages, that young Dan has given each family member the same gift including his mother who opened hers with utmost astonishment, Anne delights Dan by saying, "Some people have all the luck.
How fantastically caring!Finally, when the Gilbreth sons are invited to meet President and Mrs. Hoover, Mrs. Gilbreth is silently unthrilled with Frank's choice of suit, one with "padded shoulders, wasp waist, 23-inch cuffs on the trousers, and a doulbe breasted vest with lapels.
Do you think I'm naturally destructive?" Classic.Many other episodes of choice remain in this truly delightful read.
Lillian Gilbert worked closely with her husband during his lifetime while birthing and raising 12 children.
Then she kept the family together and continued his work, sending all 11 surviving children to college.
She continued to lecture well into her 70s and lived to be 95 years old.On the other hand, the language in the book is badly dated, the story glosses over of what must have been some very difficult times and the family makes some occasional racist comments (consistent with the time and social class, but offensive none the less).
I completely love the Gilbreth family!
The mother is amazing for all that she did in keeping her family together.
What's more, she made good on the goal she'd set with her husband in seeing all 11 children (1 child died in infancy) graduate from college.
The internal structures instituted by the father prepared the children to run themselves while mother was on the road or working.
None of it could have worked without this.
I got a little choked up by the end...this story is a beautiful dedication by the authors to their parents' life's work and love of family.
This sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen is every bit as enjoyable as the first, with the added bonus that when you dive into it, you already are well-acquainted with the large Gilbreth family and feel like you are revisiting old friends. This is a cozy blanket of a book, allowing you to feel as you read it like you're part of this outspoken, enormous family in the first half of the 20th century. I have to admit, though, my favorite character in this one is Tom Grieves, the unlikely cook/gardener/nanny/housekeeper!
A continuation of the "Cheaper by the Dozen" Gilbreth family story. This didn't have as many laugh out loud moments as the first one, but they were in there. It was great to see what happened to the kids since things felt a little unresolved at the end of the first book. The best chapter was when the kids decided they didn't like the boy Anne brought home from college for Christmas break, so they carried out a plan to get rid of him. Worth reading if you've read the first one.
I loved this book, the sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen. It continues the story of the 12 Gilbreth children and their amazing parents, who founded motion study engineering to save time and motion in all different settings. Set in the 1920s, it gives a real flavor of the life in what were for some the flapper days. The Gilbreths were too busy taking care of one another to ''flap'' much, and it's heartwarming to read of such a close-knit and responsible set of children/teens/young adults.
Can't read Cheaper by the Dozen without following up with Belles on Their Toes. This book follows the Gilbreth family after their father's death, and is the story of their mother continuing to raise her children, and becoming a prominent figure in her own right. Love these stories of the older kids as they deal with beaux and changing fashions, and managing life without their beloved father, and watching their mother become the modern woman they knew she was. It's truly a gift to read this.
I've always loved the book, Cheaper By the Dozen, but I didn't know there was a sequel until I ran across the movie version on TCM in 2004. Now I wish I had known about it before, as this book picked up right where CBtD left off, and continues the story of the Gilbreth family after their father dies.
The prequel to this book, Cheaper by the Dozen, is also a favorite of mine, and it gives a great tribute to the father of this large family. Belles on Their Toes focuses more on the mother of the family, after the authors' dad dies. It is a funny, heartwarming book about raising a big, spirited family in the early 20th century.
Ashtray Christmas--the best chapter. Laughed until I cried!I enjoyed Cheaper by the Dozen, but I'm so glad that my round robin first reader included Belles on Their Toes in the package. Reading both back to back gave me a great perspective first on the father and then on the mother. I enjoyed Belles a bit more perhaps because I understood Mother better.
A follow up book to Cheaper by the Dozen and of course, it is wonderful!! Nice stories about how the family worked together to stay together after their father's death and loss of his income.Highly recommended for a nice light read!!
Lillian Gilbreth is legit one of the coolest women ever. I’m glad her kids honored her with this book. Note: some casual racism and sexism that made me cringe a bit, but still—five stars to this book that makes me laugh and cry every time.
True story of author of Cheaper by the Dozen.
A sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen, this one is a humorous but awe-inspiring study of the mother of the Gilbreth family. Just as good as or better than the first.
I got about halfway through his book. It's okay, but not nearly as good as Cheaper by the Dozen.
Move over, Ma Ingalls. Lillian Gilbreth is my new mom-heroine. Warm, enjoyable stories of a fascinating family.
Quick read. Entertaining.
"Belles on Their Toes" is the sequel to "Cheaper By the Dozen". It's every bit as interesting, funny and wonderful as the first.
This book was not what I expected. There were bits of humor, but the story dragged.
The first volume of this family memoir was all about Dad's ideas on how to bring up a dozen kids with the least fuss and inconvenience to the parents, and in the first few chapters there is quite a bit of repetition from the first book describing his system.
We are also repeatedly told how Martha has to wade in and help "impractical" Mom manage the family finances, because raising 11 kids comes expensive.
Not to mention that we are told Mrs Gilbreth has "degrees from a dozen or more institutions" in spite of telling Ann that she waited to finish her education before getting married.
(Maybe 3.5, rounded up this time.)After the death of the beloved and sometimes maddeningly genius head of the family, engineer and widow Lillian Gilbreth and her eleven children must pick up the pieces and decide if they're going to farm themselves out to generous relatives or friends, or if they can figure out a way to keep the family business and stay together.
In the aftermath of family tragedy, the resourceful and clever Gilbreths, now headed by determined and savvy mother Lillian, decide to stick together and try to make it work using the tools their motion study expert father taught them when they were young, and the episodes that follow are sometimes funny, sometimes poignant, but always fairly interesting.
