https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/515556.A_Garden_of_Pomegranates
If you're into a bit of a heavier read, then I cannot recommend highly enough Gershom Scholem's two introductions to the subject, "Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism" as well as his "Kabbalah;" both of which are translated in a highly accessible manner, and though they are written primarily as historical research into the subject, through the course of their pages they give a far more complete view of the kabbalistic system than any of the authors coming out of the esoteric channels.
The only way I was able to memorize the sepiroth and get a hand-hold onto Kabbalah was by reading the original versionof this book.
(the one written by Israel Regardie) I later bought this version, which CONTAINS the orgiginal and then has a few hundred pages of various discussion afterward.
All the 'extras' are garbage, for the most part.
Yet still, this is the only book which contains I.R's Garden and as I said, it was the only book (after having read over 50 on the subject) which allowed me to understand and retain information pertaining to each sephirah on the tree.
I think there is too big a jump in this book. Things seem to be put forward intellectually that are hard to grasp for a newbie such as myself. I'd imagine there is a better intro book out there.
READ THIS FIRST! The Cicero annotations look pretty good, though I've not read them fully. This was Regardie's simplest work, and is for the rank beginner who wants to know the basics of the Qabalistic field of mysticism.
I really liked this book. This is my first Regardie book to read and I fear that I chose one that was too elementary, given my many years of study. Regardless, however, I do see how the author has a gift for explaining difficult concepts in a clear and concise manner. I really do see the value in this book and shall recommend it to others.One aspect that I do plan to take full advantage of are the many guided meditations for each of the paths and sephiroth. This is a great book.
Another incredible and short work of this excellent author. Concisious, with some and concret cabalistic correspondences and with his beautifull way to express them.
Excellent introduction to the hebrew practical occult qabalah. Perfect as a first dive into Qablistic study in an occult context.
Great concise, classic book by Israel Reagardie.
So far, it's fascinating, but I've only started to read it.
Regardie is always a laborious slog but the gems in the mire are worth it. Will read again one day I'm sure.
The first part by Regardie is a good introduction to Qabalism. The pathworkings in the second part by the Ciceros was really the best part for me though.
Good introduction to Qabalah with reference to many philosophers, astrology, tarot, religions and it's Gods. Still difficult to understand given the complexity of the topic.
This one is going to take me a while to read -- have been trying for a year
Good to study.
The book itself, as it was written by Mr. Regardie years ago, deserves high praise. However this paperback, green-covered publication with added material by the Cicero's is a total waste of paper. Apart from a few illustrations, the Cicero's did nothing good for the book and in my opinion came across like a pathetic attempt at riding Regardie's coat-tail all the way to the bank. It's especially annoying since the "added material" exceeds the original material number of pages yet is completely useless.Regardies work gets 5 stars. The Ciceros get negative -2 stars.
Was curious, but just couldn't get into it.
basic kaballah good for pathwork.
