https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104979.Journey_of_Souls

مطالب اون کتاب و طرز به خواب بردن افراد و کشف واقعیت های روحی و مطالعاتش در مورد سوژه ها خیلی شبیه همین کاری هست که مایکل نیوتن در این کتاب انجام داده ولی یافته های این کتاب کامل تر و پیشرفته تر از کتاب برایان ال وایس هست ...
I have read many books regarding this subject and was not surprised to discover the author spent a lot of time in military schools .
Although the book is about life between lives & spirituality , it lacks the essence of spirituality .
It lacked the "heart" I have felt while reading other books on this subject .
The clients seem to be rushed thru the emotional essence of their experience , even while crying , the author brushes past these amazing moments that are so moving and highlights the "organizational chart" of the after life .
بیشتر از نصف کتاب رو خوندم. ولی متاسفانه واقعا نمیتونم با فضاش ارتباط برقرار کنم. بله میدونم که مستند و علمی و همهی اینهاست. ولی برای من باورپذیر نبود متاسفانه.البته بدم نمیاد که تمومش کنم. ولی بعید میدونم حالاها برم سراغش.
بیشتر از نصف کتاب رو خوندم. ولی متاسفانه واقعا نمی‌تونم با فضاش ارتباط برقرار کنم. بله می‌دونم که مستند و علمی و همه‌ی اینهاست. ولی برای من باورپذیر نبود متاسفانه.البته بدم نمیاد که تمومش کنم. ولی بعید می‌دونم حالاها برم سراغش.
I don’t claim to understand how hypnosis works but I find it very hard to discount that these people from all walks of life are able to recount nearly identical stories without previous knowledge of such stories.It is similar to the stories told by UFO abductees under hypnosis.
UFO abductees recount travel up to crafts in light, claim that these UFOs travel via light, perform various procedures using light, and now learning that souls and the spirit world are all made of light leads me to think that this is the common thread between these two “worlds”.
Given the level of commitment and the consistency of the responses, Michael Newton paints a very credible picture of where we have come from, where we are going and why that answers many other questions of time and space.It's a fascinating read for those with an open mind, and provides thought-provoking comfort to those who currently find life frustratingly meaningless.Sceptics to the book's content will find 101 reasons why this book is the workings of imagination, my only argument to this is, if Michael Newton has written this book from imagination, then as well as gifted, he is a thoroughbred genius!
Quite literally, one of the three most important books I've ever read. Newton, a hypnotherapist and admitted agnostic, begins to uncover, through his sessions with his patients, the existence and details of the un-reported world that exists in another sphere between lives on this earth. Most of what I'd hoped and suspected about the "afterlife" or, better said, "between life," was affirmed and expanded upon. Powerful and life-changing, I've read this book a dozen times and get something each time I visit the pages. Not to be missed.
This is a collection of case studies by a hypnotherapist who believes that he has regressed patients not just into past lives but also into the period between lives.
As Carl Sagan has observed, extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, and while some may consider this collection to represent that extraordinary evidence, I personally have my doubts.
I'll say this much, though: a) This book is a fascinating read, and b) It would be nice if the universe really works this way!
Read this book with an open but not-too-gullible mind and come to your own conclusions!
I have a problem with the idea of past lives and with karma generally, but I found this book to be both encouraging and hopeful.
Souls atone for the sins of their past lives.
And, I don't believe this teaching allows us to help people in need without negatively impacting their karmic atonement.
They will need to be abused again in their next life because somebody helped them?
It is amazing to me that 29 people all recalled the same vision of our life between lives, but I do not believe in past lives (even if people under hypnosis recall them) and I do not believe in karma.I would recommended this book to agnostics and people who know somebody that died.
It seems that timing aligned again since it showed up just as I've been exploring the "spirit world" recently through authors who have written about their near death experiences.One major reason I loved this book is because the author himself was quite skeptical about past life regression early on in his career.
The book basically takes the reader through what happens to a soul when the body dies by using conversations written down verbatim by his clients.
I put "scientific" in quotes because I don't necessarily believe that any of us can truly know what happens to us after we die until we .
Like Spirit Babies by Walter Makichen, this book talks a lot about karmic reasons for our various incarnations on Earth (and possibly other planets from time to time).
Dr. Newton uses regressive hypnotherapy to take people back to before they were born in this life and we see some of his subjects' past lives and what the spirit world looks like in between physical incarnations.
Since I'm already a firm believer in reincarnation, I was glad to get detailed accounts without the author trying to "prove" anything or convince me.
Apparently this author was an atheist for a long time before he began his studies and changed his mind.
*I just saw that I reviewed this book over a year ago.
Fascinating, life changing.*What incredible book!
All about heaven, and it is so realistic and genuinely presented you don't doubt the authenticity of the recollections of Newton's subjects under hypnosis.
Heaven being just a word to describe what is really 'Home'.
Rather than try to convince anyone of the reality of reincarnation (which would be impossible in any case), I would ask that one keep an open mind and read this book to see if anything rings true.
I loved this book and am getting ready to read the next one.
I can read this over and over and over... I have learned to look at my personal life challenges as necessary obstacles in order that I may progress by mastering areas of my life that are mentally and emotionally challenging. As I have always told others, life is a testing ground for the heart's intentions and desires, and it is up to us to subdue our passions and overcome greed, hatred, and delusion. I would recommend this book to anyone who would love to change their angle (perspective) on life and experience a conscious re-birth.Isaiah
This area deals with how a soul decides on the type of life they want to live, and what they hope to gain by becoming a physical being.
In the soul's next life it was decided that there would be some type of illness or accident that would limit the persons life choices.
The person had to "remember" to allowed the accident to happen in hopes to galvanize the growth the soul wanted.
This evaluation is done in a type of temple with a number of guides and people who were significant in that person's life.
Reading this book was a life changing experience for me.
I always felt each of us had a special purpose in being here on earth, and that we were provided with others to help us on our journey.
This book has cemented these ideas and expanded upon them based on Dr. Michael Newton's hypnotherapy of his patients over a 10 year period.
This book has also given me comfort in that I now know out souls never really die and that I will again see my loved ones who have passed from this world.
I highly recommend it to anyone with an open mind and soul.
Michael Newton has gone where no one has gone before.
He has tapped into the place we go in between lives using hypnotherapy.
This book tells the journeys of several people as they are regressed to the point before they were born.
This and his other book, Destiny of Souls are my all time favorite books.
I read them after my son committed suicide.
These books gave me great comfort at a time when all there was was grief and amazement.
I believe in what this book has to say, and know on a soul level that it contains great truths.
Това е Книгата, която всеки интересуващ се от минали животи и структурата на духовния свят трябва да прочете. Знаех, че книгата ще изобилства с регресии от практиката на Д-р Нютън, но не подозирах колко детайлни и информативи ще бъдат те, и колко много ще ме впечатлят. Чувствам се невероятно обогатена!
(again, yes) Are we drawn to certain people to play certain roles in our lives (both positive and negative) for a larger reason?
And he has 30 years of clinical cases where he apparently has regressed clients through hypnosis into knowledge of past lives and even a resting place between these earthly quests.
The clients all report markedly similar experiences beyond physical death.This book concentrates on the reported experiences in a separate plane of consciousness where souls go to recover from their most recent incarnation and to study the lessons learned, the missteps taken and the overall purpose of that life.
Anybody who is spiritually minded and has an interest with the afterlife should definitely begin their quest by reading this book.
Dr Newton includes transcriptions from 29 case studies that are all unique in their own way; however, there are striking similarities in all these cases that will make even the skeptic think twice.
Personally, I'm a believer, and I wouldn't discourage anybody from exploring this book for answers pertaining to their true spiritual self, and the afterlife that awaits us all between lives.
اين كتاب كمكم كرد جواب تعداد زيادي از سوالاتي كه خيلي متزلزلم كرده بود رو پيدا كنم .مايكل نيوتن روان
چیزی که برای من خیلی جالب بود سوا از خوندن مطالب نویسنده؛ پیش گفتاری بود که ناشر محترم کتاب نوشته بودن آقای نیوتن نویسنده این کتاب بوسیله هیپنوتیزم سوژه ها رو به زندگی های گذشتشون می برد و بعد درباره عالم برزخ و ارواح سوالات مختلفی از اون ها می پرسید آقای ناشر در ابتدای کتاب به کل تناسخ و با استناد به دین و اهل کتاب و نقل قول هایی از میرداماد و شبستری رد و باطل کردند!
Since that day, I have experienced LBL hypnotherapy several times, each with powerful insights from the other side– above all, the encouragement to "be" love in this life.
Newton Institute-trained hypnotherapists are increasingly easy to find, and I am positive that LBL hypnotherapy will someday be recognized as the "hotline to Heaven" that it is.
Our past lives, and the love lessons they impart, are alive in our subconscious–in this book, Dr. Newton reveals to us the time BETWEEN our lives, when the "veil of forgetfulness" of earthly incarnations is lifted.
After that hard pill to swallow...Newton advances a premise that the purpose of life relies upon our ignorance of life outside of this mortal period, but this is quite at odds with his efforts to expose what life outside of mortality is like.What sits particularly ill, though, is the observation that one can really only know about these things through the medium of a hypnotist.
It's a shame to have to rely on an intermediary who is just as corrupt and incompetent as the human race generally.Outside of what a hypnotist may tell you about this subject, there is paltry evidence for anything that Newton promulgates.
It is very thrilling to conceive of a community, a continuing learning, a teaching about what this lifetime is about.
It is thrilling to think that there is evidence at last that life doesn't end, or at least doesn't end with death as it appears to us.
Are these reported cases evidence of life after death?" My research on the internet turned up other cynics and those who plainly call this book, and others Dr. Newton has written, exaggerations at best, downright fabrications at worst.And I found many who rejoice, rejoice to read these studies.Time.
Time -- and death -- will eventually show us the truth.
My ex husband (of 12 years) passed away this month, after a few short months of battling cancer.
He was 36, and although we divorced a couple years ago, we were still very much good friends.
This event made me reflect on what I really believe when it comes to death, and where he might be now.
This book is incredibly insightful and gives you a lot to think about.
While I don't think anyone knows FOR SURE what happens when we die, I believe a lot of what this book states.
I downloaded this book because I wanted another point of view on the 'afterlife'.
What I got was a whole lot more than I bargained for.
First of all, it's a very dry book, full of case studies so I had a hard time staying focused on it.
But it's 'big picture' is a lot bigger than I am prepared to accept.
I like the idea that we chose the lives we are living, in order to learn from them.
And the idea that some people in our lives are old friends from previous lives.
کتاب خلاف اونچه در مقدمه قید شده و به نظر میرسه بخاطر اخذ مجوز باشه ، مربوط به تایید نظریات تناسخ هست ، برای من خوندنش خالی از لطف نبود ، چرا که تجربیات اینچنینی داشتم ، از خوندن این کتاب لذت بردم ، ظاهرا کتاب دیگری بنام سرنوشت روح هم از همین نویسنده و با همین مترجم چاپ شده که حکم جلد دوم این کتاب رو داره ، کتاب دوم برای من جذابیت سفر روح رو نداشت
به من گفتند اگر این کتاب رو بخونم خیلی دیدم خیلی تغییر می کنه راجع به قانون تناسخ صحبت می کنه امیدوارم واقعا اینطوری باشه
كتاب مثير جدا برغم افكاره الجديدة الا انني وجدته رائعا لم اتخيل اني سانهيه بهذه السرعة او انهيه اصلا اريد ان اعرف باي مستوى روحي انا وماهو لوني ومتى سانتقل لهذا العالم الرائع
As a young lad in a small town searching for definitive proof of a higher being (and soulful purpose), I was too shy to share any inner thoughts with anyone, and soon felt all alone in this world...as far as how I figured all this was put together anyway.The Bible version of events, didn't quite jive with me...nor did the BIG BANG...some inner dissonance rang out...and then a fine fellow, who would instantly become my life long best friend, introduced me to this book.
At long last, I didn't feel at such odds...Some books come into our lives at certain times for a very specific reason...
this was one of those books...hmmm....at the time I'd give it FIVE STARS, but have no idea how I'd rate it today, some twenty years later...
