https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15683.Lyrical_and_Critical_Essays
However, they are not the ideas of an established or esteemed philosopher, but those of a rebel, of a man hopelessly in love with life in an absurd world, of a kind heart which seeks harmony in the existence, a refuge in solidarity.
But this acceptance doesn’t equate with weariness, instead it imbues the heart with a passion to live, to love, to be kind.To me his writing is like that home where peace is granted - a resting place.
These essays are highly recommended to those who seek to live life passionately.
And while Camus does express his doubts over Pouget's apologisms at times, such as through the idea that God's revelations are guided through history by our progress towards Him, using his customary wit and cheekiness...:Heretics, in short, are men who want to go faster than God. There is no salvation for impatience....and his problems with the idea of mind over method, Camus obviously sees both the author and the priest as precursors to his own ideas, springboards to leap from, even if it's not one of faith...There is something moving in the homage one man pays another.'On Ignazio Silone's Bread and Wine' and 'Intelligence and the Scaffold'On the face of it, Ignazio Silone shared similarities with Camus.
Man is face to face with himself: I defy him to be happy…” — Albert Camus, Death in the SoulA collection of short essays by Camus, my favourites being the lyrical essays at the beginning of the book.
They were mostly autobiographical, depicting Camus’ time in Algeria and also his observations in the countries he visited.
Camus writes lovely essays about his travels and his time spent in Algeria.
It’s evident how much he loved Algeria: "No, you must certainly not go there if you have a lukewarm heart or if your soul is weak and weary!
I also noticed the essays covered a lot of themes explored in "The First Man", Camus’ autobiography.
Camus is often lumped in with Sartre as an existentialist, but he claims in another essay that that's an incorrect classification.
In fact, he insists on not being classified, pointing out that when he writes he is exploring questions, which is different from providing answers (hence the mental link I made to Rilke).
I think he is an existentialist to the extent that he doesn't claim to know what our lives mean, or whether they have any significance at all.
“The Stranger”) and “The Plague”, I found it simply interesting to read this book by such a young writer in three parts: Lyrical Essays, Critical Essays and Camus On Himself, in which I preferred Part II to Part I, in other words, I was primarily keen on the critical essays followed by the lyrical ones.
Moreover, avid Camus readers should find reading his ‘Preface to the Stranger’, ‘Letter to Roland Barthes on The Plague’, ‘Letter to P.B.’ and ‘Three Interviews’ in Part III intimately and illuminatingly informative.For instance, in ‘Between Yes and No’, we can sadly enjoy reading this memoir-based extract between a son and his mother:…“Is it true I look like my father?”“The spitting image.
and I quote from Camus with total agreement: "There is more love in these awkward pages than in all those that have followed."
Thus there is a will to live without refusing anything life offers: the virtue I honor most in this world.” — Return to Tipasa“In the difficult times we face, what more can I hope for than the power to exclude nothing and to learn to weave from strands of black and white one rope tautened to the breaking point?” — Return to TipasaThere’s nothing for it but an unbridled acceptance of everything that happens to us, and by existing in this way, we’re rebelling against the absurdity of our human condition.
These essays illustrate with precision and elegance Camus’s ardor for life and his concerns about materialistic excess.
The core of his empowering and inspiring philosophy focuses on how to save life.
Failure or refusal to do so leaves the world vengeful and violent.
Life is exiled when the mind is abandoned.
In trying to remake the world, we must be wary of the use of tyranny.
Art and beauty must be embraced.
Art is liberty, and liberty is beauty.
In poetic fashion, he also expresses his lifelong admiration for the sun’s power to have a medicinal effect on life.
Many of the critical essays were discussion of writers who Camus admired, but none of which I had heard of or read (aside from a brief one about Sartre).Scattered throughout are observations that felt very like criticisms one hears about society today.
I'm sure I saw something like it on a dorm room wall in college...- And the best of all: "A writer writes to a great extent to be read...
These prose essays aim at an entirely different target than the novels and use different means to reach them while still sitting comfortably within Camus' style.
Such a feat of translation is impressive, given that French has a tolerance for run-on sentences and compound phrases that English does not.Though as a volume this book is most valuable to Camus' established fans, there are many elements which should appeal to anyone looking for 20th Century Romantic prose.
Personally, the lyrical essays in this volume are my favourite Camus writings so far.
But there are no limits to loving, and what does it matter to me if I hold things badly if I can embrace everything?" (57)"I can say and in a moment I shall say that what counts is to be human and simple.
No, what counts is to be true, and then everything fits in, humanity and simplicity.
So as not to fall short, either in one direction or in the other, we have to remember that the writer lives for his work and fights for liberties." (358) [interview]
Once that capacity is lost (depressingly, by about the age of 30!) people find themselves in a kind of limbo, effectively waiting to die, without the consolations of religion (which Camus himself rejected and in any case finds inapposite in Algerian culture).It is a shame that essays like “Summer in Algiers” are not better known.
And a generally accessible cultural landmark for society was the proximity of the year 2000, which I think formed a psychological watershed for a great many people for whom 2000 was a year that represented The Gateway To The Future.
Accepting the absurdity of everything around us is one step, a necessary experience: it should not become a dead end.
An analysis of the idea of revolt could help us to discover ideas capable of restoring a relative meaning to existence, although a meaning that would always be in danger.""In a world whose absurdity appears to be so impenetrable, we simply must reach a greater degree of understanding among men, a greater sincerity.
To do so, certain conditions must be fulfilled: men must be frank (falsehood confuses things), free (communication is impossible with slaves).
Finally, they must feel a certain justice around them."
Beautiful insights of a life lived as he would have said " to the point of tears". In his lyrics Camus writes from the heart, illustrating those moments that took his breath away, moments full of awe and embedded in eternity - in his memories, in his writing -. Loved his observations about love, pain, transcendence, meaning of life and a life worth living.
The lyrical essays, the first section of this book, present Camus' deductions about the nature of mankind, written with glorious poetic tenderness. The critical essays, a second portion, present Camus' ideas on what art ought to aspire to, and how it should relate to its own world and its predecessors.
Camus has been mine since I was 18 and, at this point, I'm not interested in trying to win converts.Coincidentally, I read this book as I was reading the works of the Greek Tragic Trio (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides).
It's easy now to see the influence of these writers on Camus and several of his essays make reference to the tragedies they wrote.
Everyone wants the man who is still searching to have already reached his conclusions." (Summer: The Enigma)"Yet people insist I identify my term or terms, once and for all.
Albert Camus for the win. Always. Will recommend.
The lyrical essays in the first section are probably of more interest to the general reader, since the critical essays are often in response to other works of French literature (not having read all of them, it's a bit harder to follow Camus's arguments).
One of these, "The Desert," is probably one of the most beautiful essays I have ever read.
Reading the lyrical essays, and then some of the critical essays and interviews where Camus sets himself apart from the literature of the absurd and some of his contemporaries, I see his point.
I must admit I haven't read much of the critical essays in this, but the lyrical essays are some of my favorite of Camus's writing.
The celebration of the healing powers of nature in "Nuptials at Tipasa" proves Camus was not the nihilist people malign him as being.
The lyricism and energy he imbues in nature is reminiscent of Thoreau, without the whole unfortunate belief in God.Ultimately, this book is a great collection of often overlooked writings by a literary luminary.
This collection truly is a gem for anyone interested in Camus' thought.
As a matter of face, it may feel at times that you are hearing from a Camus you never thought existed.
But much like Gide's letters and Camus' own notebooks, you are granted insight to the inner workings of the man.
Despite all that, you gain in knowing more of the man.
His interpretations of his past works (which are always beyond the control of their maker) as well as his lyrical reflections on his past.
A truly beautiful, through fragmentary, collection of a writer whose importance can never be over stressed.
Lyrical essays include excerpts from "The Myth of Sisyphus" and other books; my two favorites are the one on his hometown in winter and the one on returning home, disillusioned, only to find redemption in the sudden sunlight rounding a streetcorner. Critical essays include reviews of Rene Char and other contemporaries, an introduction to his stage adaptation of a Faulkner novel, and thoughts on Melville. Also included: a section of interviews and correspondence, like letters to Barthes and Sartre.
Knowing that certain nights whose sweetness lingers will keep returning to the earth and sea after we are gone, yes, this helps us to die.
Great sea, ever in motion, ever virgin, my religion along with night!
It washes and satiates us in its sterile billows, frees us and holds us upright.
Each breaker brings its promise, always the same.
If I were to die surrounded by cold mountains, ignored by the world, an outcast, at the end of my strength, at the final moment the sea would flood my cell, would life me above myself and help me die without hatred.
A continuation of this author's and thinker's impressions, observations, critiques, and opinions.There are a couple to a few essays repeated from other anthologies; but overall, the added material dominates.I particularly enjoyed his essay and observations on tragedy.Also, in this collection are transcripts from various interviews. Wholly understandable why he felt the linking of himself to Sartre and the label existentialist "odd."A great addition for any and all wishing to go beyond The Stranger, Sisyphus, The Rebel, and The Plague.Kudos Albert,
This is my favorite of Camus' work. The collection of essays found here provide insight into Camus' thought and his world. At times what you learn seems to reflect the Algeria of his time. Yet in spite of the heat, the political and cultural tension that was Algeria, Camus' essays bring out a rare light to view the world as he does.(Of special note to you Sartre lovers out there, this book contains some of the articles written between them. Think of them less as news journal articles and more like the medieval 'disputations' between great thinkers.)
I am a big Camus fan.His lyrical essays are engaging and beautiful. He's moderately easy-to-read and his ideas beautifully brought though sometimes complex understand. They are not obtuse. They can be grasped with careful meditation.I don't always agree with his conclusions or worldview but I appreciate his thought process.I was only able to read the lyrical part - my book fell apart and I lost the second half. I will continue the review when I find it.
I have just finished re-reading and underling on about every second page of the Lyrical Essays section of this book, most of which essays were written when Camus was relatively young. I find those early works...no, I find myself unable, unwilling, to describe the intense love of this Earth than Camus's writing displays. A greater tribute to the sea and sky I've never seen.
There are too many things to think about in life. Camus thought life was absurd, and i believe it to a certain point. it is what you make it. Camus writes with such beautiful, philosophical clarity, its hard to not follow him.
This book was my first exposure to Camus and I absolutely enjoyed it. His lyrical essays are superb; his critical reviews left me hungry for more. Very quotable.
this took a while, but was worth it.
highly recommended
