https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32929.Goodnight_Moon
Goodnight, Moon is the chilling portrayal of a small child (represented, oddly enough, by a rabbit), listing the things in their bedroom and then saying goonight to them, one by one.At best, this is obvious stalling behavior by a willful child, remaining undealt with by a "programmed parent." At worst, it may be a symptom of what could turn into a crippling obsessive compulsive disorder, compelling the unnamed child to wish inanimate objects good night well past the threshold of exhaustion and madness.A number of unanswered questions remain: Why do we only see the child in bed?
I hadn't remembered reading it when I was a child, but it might have been read to me...
It's always so difficult to convince a child to fall asleep at night.
I don't have kids, but I do have a 5-month-old puppy who whines for 5 minutes every night when he goes in his cage/crate (hopefully he'll be fully housebroken soon so he can roam around when he wants).
This was a believable experience, and it really helps show kids how to relax and just let go when it's time to sleep.The bunny's are adorable.
I want to sample some more books by this fine author and her illustrators.
I was stunned to see this appear on a list of banned books .
I mean, seriously?
What could be more innocent than this book?
What within these brightly-colored pages could possibly be considered objectionable?
A Google search revealed nothing.
Even Wiki let me down this time.Luckily, while I was having this discussion with a library patron, the director happened to walk by, and she knew the answer.You see the doll on the shelf behind the old lady rabbit's head?It's not wearing any clothes.The horror, the horror!
Anyway, here's LeVar Burton reading this risqué book to Neil deGrasse Tyson:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0s8oY...
Margaret Wise Brown's nihilistic classic is a howling renunciation of God, here depicted as a "quiet old lady whispering 'hush'." There is no afterlife here, no reward, no release from the crushing mundanity of life.
We live our lives in a "great green room", but at the end we accumulate nothing but the discarded trappings of our childhoods.
Even love cannot offer solace: where are our families when the end comes?
"Goodnight nobody," we call into the blackness.There is no hope in the world without us.
"Goodnight air," the poem ends.
"Goodnight noises everywhere." We fall, silently, into the void.
“A great man in his pride . . . Casts derision uponSupersession of breath;He knows death to the boneMan has created death.” ~William Butler Yeats“Goodnight Moon . . . Goodnight Air. Goodnight noises everywhere” ~Margaret Wise BrownThere’s only one time in your life that you say goodbye to everything you’ve come to know and love . . . and even dedicate a little time saying goodbye to the things you’ve come to hate: the shitty bowl of mush growing cold on the night stand that your “old lady” tries
Goodnight Air. Goodnight noises everywhere”	~Margaret Wise BrownThere’s only one time in your life that you say goodbye to everything you’ve come to know and love .
There was no room for cliché rhymes and red balloons in the classic written rendering of death, until Margaret Wise Brown came into the picture.
In 1947, Brown threw out all the conventions established by previous poets writing about death, bidding folks like Yeats and Donne to say “goodnight air” as she peppered her death poetry with balloons, bears, and cows jumping over the moon.Her work reminds us that death does not have to be a subject of woe.
It is the perfect book to read right before a nap because I found my voice would naturally get softer while I flipped the pages.
But what the heck does a 15 month-old care?I find it strange that people are put off by saying goodnight to inanimate objects but babies LOVE DOING THAT.
If the baby was upset because we were leaving the park, I would just start saying goodbye to the slide, goodbye to the swings and she would start waving with me and then she felt better about walking away.
It's a really good trick!Ultimately it's a classic and it ends in a very quiet, sleepy way that is perfect for bedtime.
why do people like this book? finding the little mouse on each page is fun, but other than that it's just a dumb book. there is a lame attempt to rhyme...sometimes. there's no rhythm. i don't get it.
Wonderful book that makes you feel that everything will be fresh and new in the morning.
A young anthropomorphic bunny is in bed saying “good night” to everything she can see around her: “Goodnight room Goodnight moon Goodnight cow jumping over the moon Goodnight light, and the red balloon ...”There are three books in the series, all by the same author and illustrator, the others being “The Runaway Bunny” and “My World”.
In desperation her lover once took an illustrator aside and said, “Why don’t you marry Margaret and take her off my hands?” Perhaps it is the author’s brittle and alienated personality which enabled her to empathise with how little children would feel reassured.
What is about this book that haunts me?
Is it the deep sense of emptiness?
That the room stays the same, but objects move and light slowly fades into dark?
That the narrator has no connection at all with the only other "human," the old lady whispering hush?
Or is that that the narrator says goodnight to "nobody," that as we go outside her room, we see only stars - no people, no cities.
It's as if this little bunny is the last one on earth, and is being watched by some robotic nanny bunny.
The baby bunny is oddly unengaged with a temperamental grandma bunny as he (or she) watches the room grow darker (even though the moon rises). Despite these inconsistencies and occasional strange reading cadences (goodnight nobody? what does that mean), I would recommend book to anyone interested in going to bed at night and suffers from separation anxiety with inanimate objects.
A little bunny tucked in bed says goodnight to all the familiar things in his great green room. The fireplace is burning, the lights are on as the little bunny says goodnight. By the end of the book the lights are out and the moon is shining through the window. Little rabbit says, "Goodnight noises everywhere."This ingenious book settles down the little ones for bed. The full page illustrations alternate between boldly colorful layouts to small black and white pictures. The texts is simple and direct. I recommend this book.
Goodnight Moon is a board book for young readers by Margaret Wise Brown. The charming illustrations are by Clement Hurd. It’s bed time for bunny, and he’s in the great green room wishing a good night to all those familiar items occupying the room, or seen from the window. As those items are first listed and then bid goodnight, there’s plenty of rhyming going on. This is a loved classic bedtime book, first published in 1947 and never out of print in over seventy years. Delightful!
The back cover advises that this “is the perfect first book to share with a child.” My family agreed so I had to read this inane “story” every night to my son until I was able to locate significantly better board books.
Now I understand why the cover doesn’t specify that you should share this with your child.
My son finally slept through the night once I switched to NOT-Goodnight Moon.Unlike one of the other reviews here, I won’t force a “spoiler alert” by giving away the ending.
No, no, this book doesn’t really ever end.
I think this is a book you have to have read first when you were very young in order to LOVE it.
At least for me, when I first read it as an adult, I just didn't get why it is such a classic and why so many people count it as their all-time favorite first book from their childhood.
I wonder if some kids love it because they can soon "read" it themselves, long before they can read any other book?
My all-time favorite first book from my childhood is Scuffy the Tugboat.
Sorry, Goodnight Moon.
Madness, but nothing compared to the depraved picture on the opposite wall, in which a grown rabbit wearing wading pants is using a carrot on a line to fish for bunnies.Then there's the full bowl of mush carelessly left next to the bed.
There is an adult, but the bunny never says "Mommy" or "Nana" but instead only refers to "the old lady whispering 'hush'." I don't want to believe that the protagonist was kidnapped down by the river by the Evil Fisherman Rabbit, but it becomes increasingly difficult to believe otherwise.As the bunny goes through his nightly routine, the story leaves Fairyland and enters the Theatere of the Absurd.
"Goodnight comb and goodnight brush," the bunny whispers, lest the old lady hush him again.
“Goodnight Moon” is a true cult hit for children of all ages.Margaret Wise Brown’s story is extremely cute and heartwarming as the little rabbit not only says goodnight to everything he spots in his room, but also states to the audience about the various things that he spots, similar to how the child has to find certain objects or people in the “Where’s Waldo” and “I Spy” books.
Also, towards the end of the book, Clement Hurd makes the room look darker as the small rabbit is saying goodnight to all the objects in his room and is about to go to sleep.“Goodnight Moon” is a true classic for children who love bedtime stories and spotting various objects in a picture.
Goodnight Moon is pretty brilliant for a board book.
And the pages alternate between color and black and white, perhaps suggesting that the little bunny is falling asleep and sees these objects in his mind or half-sleep.
It's like Inception but for kids and with bunnies.
And much like that spinning top in Inception, the cow just keeps jumping over the moon.
Clement Hurd's colors are intense.
But somehow my daughter likes to look at it.
And maybe it's just parental exhaustion, or I've been conditioned like my daughter, but it makes me sleepy just reading it.
She is now 20 months old going on 21 months and I have to say that I grown to appreciate this book.
This is not only due to the enjoyment she gets or because the little rabbit procrastinates going to bed like my little one does.
Maybe it's the perplexing Old Lady whispering hush or maybe it's the "Goodnight Nobody" page but I think there is something else going on here with this book.
Or maybe it's because I've read it so often I need to think on a different level as I read this.
A heartbreakingly spare story about the heat death of the universe. One by one the things of the world are bid adieu. Beginning with small losses--clocks, socks, a young mouse who will never reach adulthood, the stakes rise relentlessly until the loss of the atmosphere, stars, and sound itself. In the end the illustrated moon shines on, a reminder of things lost, but the protagonist--and the reader--are left sleeping in the dark.
This post modernist take on nocturnal rabbit activity has been widely acclaimed by pundits and neophytes alike. Although the end is itself anticlimactic, the book throughout alternates between a Jeffersonian systematic formulation of an intuitively quixotic plot and a reductive encapsulation of the bed-time ritual that is practically, in its essence, Elizabethan. A revisionist reading unearths the Orwellian presence of the hushing lady, which is countermanded by the ideological shift introduced
This post modernist take on nocturnal rabbit activity has been widely acclaimed by pundits and neophytes alike.
Although the end is itself anticlimactic, the book throughout alternates between a Jeffersonian systematic formulation of an intuitively quixotic plot and a reductive encapsulation of the bed-time ritual that is practically, in its essence, Elizabethan.
A revisionist reading unearths the Orwellian presence of the hushing lady, which is countermanded by the ideological shift introduced to the reader by the omnipresent burgeois mouse.
Although the rabbit does, in the end, succumb to the hushing lady, the reader is left with a sense of vague dissatisfaction with regards to the character development.
Read this a super long time ago and really liked it :)
2.0 stars. This is one I did not read as a child and first read to my younger daughter when she was three. Not one of my favorites...bring on Dr. Seuss.
I've offered to read this book to my nieces and nephews at bedtime on a number of occaisions and it never gets refused!Although the illustrations are maybe not as sophiscated as in more modern books, I think they are probably just as enchanting for a child today as they were for a child over 60 years ago when it was first published.
The colour scheme of the illustrations is also very unusual but interesting and sets the style of the book apart from it's more modern counterparts.All in all, I think that this book is a charming, timeless and classic childrens book that should be a staple of any child's library!
Can anything truly be said to speak with less than lavish, rhapsodic adoration of Margaret Wise Brown’s classic children’s book?Just as mothers and their babes in arms have the uncanny ability to synchronize their heartbeats by a single loving glance, the lyrical cadence and soothing, repetitive text makes reading Goodnight Moon a compulsive act of gentle rocking motion, lulling the reader into an involuntary ebb and flow.
The late Clement Hurd was best known for his work illustrating Goodnight Moon; his charming collaboration launched his career as an illustrator of children’s books.
I bet most households have a copy of this book. My mother read it to me when I was very young. The pictures are so vivid and the rhyming is such fun.I don’t have my original copy but I do have two that I picked up when I came across them in book stores. And I still smile as I look at the pictures and read the rhymes aloud.Such a lovely bedtime story. A classic that never gets old and all ages will enjoy.I own a copy of this book. My review is voluntarily given.
Omg I still love this book! I read it to baby carmine last night during reading time and he didn't understand much if anything, but as he gets older I think we will say goodnight to everything!! Love it
If they want, they can draw pictures of their rooms, labeling each item they would bid goodnight.Math - "Telling Time" - Have children look at the clock in the first picture.
Then have them figure out how much time passes in the story.Art - "Noticing Details" - The bunny says goodnight to most of the items in the room, but there are some that he misses.
Encourage children to look closely at the pictures in the book and list the items that the bunny misses when he says goodnight.Science - "Phases of the Moon" - The moon in the story is full.
10/26/18: I looked closely at the illustrations this time and saw that the little Bunny starts saying good night to everything at 7pm and finally goes to sleep around 8:10pm.
My mother used to read it to my brother and me allthe time when we were younger, until she grew so tired of it that she bought it for us on cassette and we played it enough times that the tape became messed up.
I'm glad that, at the ripe old age of 22, I bought my own copy and shared it with someone dear to me.
For shame! My grandson doesn't care for this book. I ranted and raved for a good ten minutes when he refused to let me read it to him. He found this (the ranting) hysterical which only made me angrier. "You will read this!"Toothy grin."Look! There's a little mouse on every page that you can find."Toothy shrug."Logan, this is a classic!"Toothy, wet sneeze.Logan toddles over with  . Give me strength.
