https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6600137-captivate
The first half of the book is pretty much about building up the importance of Zara's and Nick's relationship and how in love they are.
Zara, Nick, Devyn, and Issie all capture the pixies that come to the town and trap them in the house.
This is obviously only a temporary solution.Two other pixie kings find out that Zara's Dad is imprisoned and weak so they decide they want to kill him and take his territory.
Astley is one of the pixie kings and he is actually saved by Zara in the beginning.
Reading Captivate was so thoroughly unenjoyable that I found myself doubting how much I loved Need to begin with.
Lot's of dangerous action scenes.
Lots of pukey teen romace between Zara and Nick.
I think Jones expects the reader to accept the characters based on Need, rather than based on any insights in this story.
While I found Zara to be a quirky, likeable girl in Need, here she is ridicuously attached to Nick and incredibly stubborn and singleminded.
Zara and Nick's relationship ~ as many have pointed out ~ is barely tolerable to read about.
CAPTIVATE was better than NEED for a number of reasons: 1) Astley was introduced, and even though that may seem like a bad thing because it puts Zara into an inevitable love triangle, it's nice to get an insider pixie's perspective on things through Zara's eyes.
It's nice to see that Zara puts a lot of trust into him while barely knowing him.
Zara's caring for Nick, however, made me begin to like him again, because everything Zara experiences, I feel like I experience it right along with her (which is what I was really getting at with this #2).3) Zara loses a lot of her original awkwardness, which makes me glad, because that was what really turned me off of NEED.
She must find and nick and save him but will he forgive her for what she's done?CHARACTERS-I still love Zara, she is so cool and (view spoiler)[...
He is just too protective and I know that's maybe a good thing but he's just too clingy and not very interesting.ROMANCE-I'm sorry I ship Astley and Zara, they belong together (view spoiler)[...
(hide spoiler)] They ar king and queen and I hope they get bonded.PLOT- I loved the plot it was so unique and perfect.ENDING-It was so good and I can't wait to read the next bookCharacters-10/10Romance-10/10Plot-10/10Ending-10/10Speed-10/10
Nick doesn't believe any pixie can be good or should be trusted.
But the more Zara hangs out with Astley the more she believes maybe there can be good pixies.
"It's an expression," I hiss "It means stay still.'" I loved his protectiveness of Zara but didn't find it overly zealous like I did with Nick.
Zara's dad says that while he is stuck in that house wreak, pixies and Kings will continue to come to try to take over his territory.
Zara has big changes ahead of her but I am positive Astley won't let her down.
Finished! It was really good. I would say that it is better than the first book. I thought this book went into more detailed than the first book and it was written better too. I can't wait to start the next book!
I doesn't, that's who.----------6% Pixies are out and about, putting people in danger, attacking poor innocent speshul folk like Zara and making trouble.
If their biology is written for them to need to drink blood (hehe, vampires...) when they don't have a queen...Doesn't this make things sorta not their fault?I mean, don't get me wrong, it's their fault for DOING the deeds all in all, but isn't it Zara's mom's fault for being like "see ya later, husband o mine.
SHE WILL STILL MAKE THINGS WORK WITH NICK.Apparently pixies smell like Dove soap.Guys.......?
I was completely Captivate-d.....
Zara, my favorite phobic is back, and even more entangled in a pixie web.
The introduction of Valhalla, took the story to a whole new level and I can not wait to see what Jones has in store for us next.
How could you do this to me Carrie Jones, you KNOW what I am talking about!
Loved the new character of Astley.
I still don’t have him figured out and I think that is exactly where Jones wants readers to be.
I DON’T KNOW!
Overall Captivate is a fantastic read!
Intriguing characters, engrossing plot, blood thirsty pixies...
I really wanted to like this series but I give up halfway through this book. I can't finish it right now, maybe one day I will. It is just too silly. Nick and Zara are driving me crazy all with all their mushy love talk (and I'm a big fan of romance in books). If you are like me and thought the first book was okay and hoped this was better I'm afraid you might be disappointed.
And to top everything off, a new pixie king emerges causing Zara to question everything.While this novel is missing a few elements that made Need so special for me (Zara's continuous listing of phobias and the creepiness factor), Jones more than makes up for it through her usage of powerful emotions.
This novel will make you laugh, make you sigh, and more than likely, make you cry.In regards to the characters, I am happy to report that for the most part, they remained true to their personalities: Zara is still her phobia-loving self, Nick is still a little over possessive, etc.
Likes:1.
This new Astley Character3.
The fact that Nick is gone....
Zara's turning into a pixie.5.
The Cover of the book8.
Atleast I can semi-feel like I'm learning something.Dislikes:1.
The author's need to make Nick call Zara Baby every 5 seconds.2.
which is not really a ending at all, just an introdution the the next book.3.This Cassidy Character...
4. How utterly and completely in love that Zara THINKS she is with Nick.5.
The name Zara7.
How worried Zara is about turning Pixie and losing herself...
so I will have to read the next book.9.
Come on, make them talk like normal people.
Unfortunately this book was just as bad as the first.Zara continued to state the obvious “This is not good.”, although I was quite impressed at a choice she made towards the end of the book.
Issie on the other hand whined and felt sorry for herself a lot.The storyline once again seemed a little immature and dragged.
I wasn’t really interested, and didn’t really care what happened.
The supposedly interesting events made me roll my eyes, and I can’t say I was particularly impressed.The ending was a little more interesting, but did end with a bit of a cliff-hanger.6 out of 10.
“Captivate” is such an interesting sequel to “Need” as it takes our characters in very different directions from where they were before. I enjoyed the addition of some of the new characters, and also the additional development in the pixie mythology. Please excuse typos. Entered on screen reader.
I couldn't put this one down. Finally Zara is becoming more interesting. She has lost her beloved Nick and she's gone all pixie. I like Nick but in my opinion there isn't much chemistry between Zara and Nick. I can't wait to find out if she gets him back, or if she ends up with the other guy. And what secrets is the other guy hiding? Hopefully in the next book Ms. Jones will leave out gag inducing lines like "His face was a worried ball of cute" Please!
Astley shows the Big Four (Zara, Nick, Issie, and Devyn) that pixies don't have to be evil...they have a choice.Which brings me to the amazing themes in this book.
I can see where Jones is including hints to what is to come (Valkyries, Valhalla, Astley, etc.), but while waiting for this interesting stuff to take place, we have to suffer through romantic melodrama between Devyn and Issie and Cassidy (rolls eyes) and the romantic googly eyes that Zara and Nick exchange (just old after awhile).Betty and Mrs. Nix are absent for a lot of the book, which was a shame.
I mean, honsetly, I liked Nick in the first book, but when a mysterious, handsome pixie king enters the picture, i was like, "YES!" Astley (said pixie king) was kind and generous, but I got kinda peeved cause he was so mellow all the time.
Oh, and Zara's undying loyalty to Nick, even when something bad happens (don't wanna spoil it) is rather sickening.
I will give the book so credit in that there were several twists, and unexpectedness, but it was really hard to focus on that with all of Zara's crap.
Actual rating - 2.5I was hoping this would be better than Need, but unfortunately, it wasn't.Zara annoyed me in the last book, and she annoyed me just as much in this one.She continued to chant phobias like she did in book one, but thankfully, she didn't do it as much in this one.
The book just bored me, and i couldn't get interested in it at all.
When the "interesting" things happened, i didn't really care.
The only thing that i liked was the ending - Not what happened at the end, just the fact that i had finished.
First read: March 2012 4/5 starsSecond read: October 2016 4/5 stars
Zara struggles with her decisions and starts to question how pixies should be treated.
Matters further intensify when a new pixie king arrives looking to claim Zara as his queen, as well as takeover the territory.
The new king is unlike any other pixie that Zara has met.
With an impending pixie war looming, Zara starts to realize the effects that her decisions have caused.
Zara's motivations and conflicts really drive this absorbing tale.Ms. Jones also introduces a few new characters.
Captivate continued to build on the established lore from the first book in the series, Need, as well as introducing a new mythology.
He encourages her to consider the fate of the humans she loves as they are in danger once again with more and more pixies arriving and the reality of the temporary ‘pixie prison’ inevitable collapse, not to mention another king whose evil surpasses any that Zara has imagined.Captivate introduces some new mythology into the Need universe, specifically Norse mythology.
That information seems to be reserved for the as yet untitled Need book 3.The basic plot is a fun continuation of the original premise of Zara trying to come to terms with both her human and pixie heritage and the nature of good and evil within all of us, but because of the lack of depth with the main characters, this sequel seems somewhat shallow.
This is wrong on so many levels and completely turned me off before I even knew what was going on in the book.Second-Writing Style: I don't remember Need being written like Captivate.
THIS WILL GET SPOILER-ISH - STOP IF YOU HAVE NOT READ NEEDThird-Plot eerily familiar: Need was criticized for being too much like Twilight - Zara moves from hot southern town to the far cold north to small town to live with Grandmother that she barely knows.
Captivate just wasn't for me - I need a bit more sustenance to a story as well as a deeper level of writing to keep my interest on a book-likable level.
Da war mir Astley sogar sympathischer, obwohl der immerhin ein Elf war.Die Thematik, dass vielleicht doch nicht alle Elfen böse sind, war recht interessant, auch wenn diese erst gegen Ende wirklich angeschnitten wird.
Generell hat mir das Ende von der ganzen Geschichte am besten gefallen, da es sehr spannend geschrieben war und sich vor allem anderen vom ersten Teil abhob.
Besonders darauf bin ich bei Band drei sehr gespannt.Insgesamt war dieser zweite Teil deutlich gewaltsamer und auch blutiger als noch Band eins, aber auch hier war dem erst gegen Mitte bis Ende der Fall.
Ich hätte mir einfach gewünscht, dass man die erste Hälfte vielleicht ein wenig gekürzt hätte.
The answer this time was nearly yes.The fact is, there were so many problems with this book I rarely felt like a book.
God, the characters.I'll admit, Zara had charm in the first book.
It's a mess.The first book had serious problems too, but it actually had charm, which is why I sort of, kind of, a little bit enjoyed it, and picked up the sequel.
This book has no charm, no appeal, and I warrant the only people who'll like this book are sixteen or haven't ever had a boyfriend and idealize the concept.
I feel like that should be a warning on the book.
While there are some truly great vampire and werewolf books out there, I was so ready for something new.
Captivate picks up right where Need left off.
I'm not sure if this is the case but it speaks loads that Carrie is able to make it feel like you just finished Need and immediately started Captivate.Captivate easily could have been just the continuation of the pixie war along with some couple troubles for Zara and Nick, but it was so much more than that!
This book is truly fantastic.
I'm really, really disappointed.What happened?!
It almost felt as if these characters were totally different from the characters I loved in the first book.
I hate to say it, but I felt like I was watching an episode of Barney and Friends with some very Full House moments where everything is solved by a big hug from an Olsen twin.
It's okay to grieve when something bad happens.
As with Need, Zara had her moments of hilarious snark that shone through, which is the reason that I gave it two stars and not one.
The second book of the Need series continues with where it last left off.
This second installment deals with the unmentionable importance of Nick and Zara's (sappy and pukey) love for each other.
This book made me doubt how much I liked Need in the first place.
But I just couldn't wait to see if my prediction played out..Zara and Nick's (gross) infatuation for each other made me want to close the book and burn it immediately (but I didn't burn it only because it was a library book).
I literally just finished reading this book minutes ago and I'm actually very annoyed.
As the end of the book margin got smaller and smaller I knew I was going to finish the book and still want more.
I HATE when authors leave endings like that.
I LOVED the new characters (Astley and Cassidy).
Astley is my new book crush.
I can't wait to see where Carrie Jones goes with book 3 (there better be a book 3 after that ending!!!), I just hope I can wait for however long it takes to come out.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/Captivate starts a while after Need with Zara’s father being trapped in the house with his pixies and the friends are stopping other pixies which are arriving more often.In the first half of the book Nick and Zara are in love, Issie is jealous of Devyn’s friendship with a girl called Cassidy.
Also Zara, after rescuing a pixie called Astley, has an internal debate about whether all pixies are evil.
I was quite surprised that there was even a sequel to this book, but I was excited to read it.
I admit I forgot what happened in the last one, but it was okay.Zara and Nick are back fighting pixies.
The problem?
Kings are coming to the area now that Zara's father is out of commission.
One in particular seems to be stalking Zara.
And to top it off, Nick gets kidnapped and Zara will do anything to get him back.I struggled a couple of times to keep from reading ahead.
The details were great and I was Captivated.
I read this during my I NEED ALL THE FAIRIES phase... one of them. I really loved this series and would say that it was one of my favorites in the genre at the time.
