https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347629.A_Burnt_Out_Case
This is a profound meditation on religion, faith, and the sort of world-weariness that comes over us all at times.
The main character, Querry, is a renowned architect--of churches, among other buildings--who travels to a leper colony in Africa because he's burnt out in everything: work, women, fame, life.
This is a book I expect I'll re-read at some point, and I wonder if at that point I too will no longer require the sort of mechanics I've grown accustomed to.
Why am I in love with Graham Greene the novels of Graham Greene?
He's passionate; his characters fall deeply in love, into or out of faith.
His female characters feel real, not idealized, not just versions of the same woman.
I don't always love them (the lover in The Heart of the Matter for ex.) but I believe in them.
The situations and settings in which Greene's characters live and work, or go to escape, are difficult, often extreme.
His novels matter.
This was described to me as a perfect novel, and it may be that, if such a thing exists: it is so well-plotted, yet never predictable.
So now even his questions seem meaningless.
There is NOTHING left for him.EXCEPT, perhaps, doing some real, tangible good for some less fortunate soul who REALLY needs it!Query MUST prove at least that his soul has SOME MORAL VALUE in this ugly, empty world.And so to Darkest Africa he goes...Now, Deo Gratias is burnt out, too.
You see, this totally impoverished African man has leprosy: a leprosy which HAS BURNT ITSELF OUT.
Can Query learn anything from a man who has MUCH less than he has?You bet.And he DOES.
Greene writes books which require thought, because he puts his own struggles with faith and philosophy into his novels.
Greene sets up philosophical discussions between Querry and the mission doctor, Dr Colin, who is an atheist and is the most sympathetic character in the whole book.
The journey downriver that Querry takes is the same one made in heart of darkness (indeed the same one Greene made and also Conrad in 1890).
The time when the novel is set was just before independence and there was a great deal going on politically (The Poisonwood Bible is set at the same time).
Losing Yourself in the ColoniesGraham Greene wrote a number of first class novels like "The Comedians", "The Power and the Glory", "The Quiet American", and the comic "Our Man in Havana", to name a few.
A stranger arrives by river boat at a leprosy hospital run by Catholic fathers at the end of the line.
We gradually learn that Querry, the stranger, used to be a world famous architect, but owing to a severe disillusionment with the human race and life, has retreated from all of it to bury himself in the African jungles to try to be "of use".
principle of indifference(principle of indifference in Britishnounthe principle that, in the absence of any reason to expect one event rather than another, all the possible events should be assigned the same probability) We have met him before in literature, the loner, The Steppenwolf, the antihero, or even Luke Rhinehart, someone who doesn´t give a toss and lets “life” take him where ever it may.However, we don´t often meet a man who runs away like Querry, deliberately, but without any goal or plan.
It is the slow coming of indifference, which like leprosy is maiming first the nerves and then mutilating your body, Querry is running away from.
Do you ever start to read books that you know are really good but you can't get into them?
I've been trying to read A Burnt Out Case for days.
It didn't work for in print so I got the audio.
So I start again and remember it as I go along so it's boring, so I fast-forward listen to it, put it down.
Maybe I'll remember it in the future and go back to it then.Anyone got any tricks to get through this to where I become fully involved?
One comes to an end.’‘What are you here for then?
All I want is to pass the time.’‘I thought you wanted to be of use.’‘Listen,’ Querry said and then fell silent.‘I am listening.’To me this quote perfectly describes A Burnt Out Case - it is a story about communication and miscommunication.When Querry, a world famous architect, struggles to find any interest in life he decides to walk out and take up living in a leper colony in the Congo.
Even at the leper colony he encounters a band of expats who badger him about his past life.
His fans include the local palm-oil tycoon Rycker (a self-righteous Christian who follows the letter rather than the spirit of his faith), Dr. Colin, Father Thomas (a priest who questions the strength of his own faith), and a meddlesome newspaper reporter, Parkinson, whose knack for twisting the truth for the sake of good newspaper copy irritates Querry.In his aimless quest for a sense of rootedness, Querry fixates on the inscrutable behavior of his assigned personal assistant, Deo Gratias, a native who has been cured and set free of the leproserie, but who is reluctant to leave and enter a world where the scars of the disease mean social ostracism.
به خاطر ترجمه بد و ویراستاری بدتر از اون از صفحه ۱۰۴به بعد رو نخونده رها کردم!این دو ستاره رو هم صرفا به موضوع خود کتاب دادم.
Certain characters around him misinterpret his explanation and build up his story to make him some sort of martyr, giving up fame and fortune to work for God in a leper colony.His interactions with an atheist doctor, the varied characters of the fathers who administer the colony, and a journalist keen to make what he can of the situation, along with the above mentioned miscommunications roll out through the novel, snowballing to what becomes almost an inevitable outcome deep in an irony that the architect himself finds amusing.I enjoyed this from the start, but expected to enjoy it less by the end (I can't explain why!!) but was surprised to find it got better and better.
30)And so on.Moreover, a talkative English journalist named Mr Parkinson has exchanged some heated arguments with him, notably tried to impress him and Father Thomas by showing off his knowledge by means of famous quotes, but unfortunately, one is mercilessly refuted, for instance:'...
Shelly,' Parkinson said....
103)Linguistically speaking, this dialogue admiringly denotes such a time-saving, advanced grammar response:'How are you, Querry?' Parkinson said.
'I didn't recognize you when I met you on the boat.'Querry said, 'Nor I you.'...
Since faith and choice cannot be separated, in particular, the interpretation of theological subjects, I felt that the fabric of the plot is woven around the characters’ responsiveness and flexibility to their own choices.That said, I suppose that someone with Greene’s experience and unstable life, must inevitably conclude that choosing any course of action, any form of companionship, or even any belief system must seem quite an absurd and random decision.The book starts with an ambiguous European, later to be identified as (aptly-named) Querry, arriving at a leproserie, somewhere on the borders of a river in Congo, because the boat he embarked upon cannot go any further.
http://bettie.booklikes.com/blog
From BBC Radio 4 - Drama:by Graham GreeneDramatised by Nick Warburton.Directed by Sally AvensQuerry,
In Luc, a place forgotten by everybody especially God, few fathers, a doctor, Deo Gratias (a leprous, 'Querry`s own walking dream'), the Ryckers and a journalist Parkinson deny their faith in a way that they think is psychologically understandable by turning a guy that is no more or less than a garbage into a saint.
Like I`ve typed oh so many times!
Be that as it may, Querry finds his own salvation in Deo Gratias who being mute didn`t let anyone open his heart for him and disappear whenever he wanted, as the main character always needed.
A Burnt-Out Case in now my second favorite Greene novel, close to rivaling A Quiet American, and the only book so far this year that I considered placing on my favorites shelf.
If I hesitate at all, then I tend to not do it, but there is something to be said for the consideration, at least to my obsessive compulsive tendencies, mostly under control and occasionally emerging here on Goodreads.The story follows an indifferently affected man into an African leper colony, home to a cast of characters possessing varrying degrees of relgious belief.
Wow -- not sure why I didn't love this book like everyone else on this goodreads forum!Maybe I didn't quite understand? I was hoping for a story rich with dripping wet details of living in the heart of africa on a leper colony, but instead i just kind of found what I felt was a superficial story of a social recluse who I definitely never connected to (let alone any of the other interchangeable characters.)Don't know why, but it just didn't resonate with me....
Later in life, Green started to refer to himself as "a Catholic agnostic" or even "a Catholic atheist" and always rejected the designation of "Catholic writer." This novel shows his honesty in his willingness to show some of the people one does encounter in this life.
Well done.==============I just finished Green's memoir, "Ways of Escape." Here are his comments on "The Burnt-Out Case" from his memoir...I went to Belgian Congo in January 1959 with a new novel already beginning to form in my head by way of a situation -- a stranger who turns up in a remote leper settlement for no apparent reason.......the book appealed too often to weak elements in its readers.
Some people complain about Graham Greene always writing the same story: a combination of doubts about God and marital infidelity.
More importantly, Querry does find a kindred spirit in Dr Colin, physician to a monastery devoted to serving God through lepers.
Dr Colin is an atheist and a gifted healer of more than leprosy.I have read every novel Greene wrote from 1940 to 1960 and can attest that he continues to confound me.
The end took me by surprise.A "burnt-out case" is a leper who can only be considered cured after the disease has eaten away all that can be eaten away.
Querry is a moral leper who calls himself "cured."
This book, an exploration of the experience of [another] tortured Catholic, is just so intense.
The characters all profess to be living a life of meaning.Their differing levels of self-awareness impact on their capacities to understand the main character, a brilliant architect,a builder of cathedrals, now desperate to shed his past and to live in peace.
Leprosy is a metaphor for whatever in modern society has mutilated his natural self.
There is irony in the fact that the one person who understands him is the atheist doctor.
The book is full of beautifully drawn descriptions, observations and ironies.
Greene's protagonist is a successful architect who longer believes in his work or ability to love. Seeking oblivion in a leper colony, he finds relief being useful to the colony's atheist doctor, but before long his spiritual "aridity" becomes the basis of a fantastic story about his saintliness. The last chapter is a comedy of competing religious narratives that ends in tragedy. As a Catholic writer Greene doubtlessly faced similar situations to Querry, provoking and disappointing his followers. His character Marie muses, "all the wrong people believe in God."
.
Graham Greene’s 1960 novel, A Burnt-Out Case poses questions about the meaning of suffering, the penetration of fame, the pain of faith, and the impermanence of love and sex. A famous architect named Querry, buys a one-way ticket to Africa and then takes a boat up the Congo River to its very last stop, trying get as far away from his old life as he can. Amid loveless affairs and a celebrated but unsatisfying career, Querry has lost his belief in love and God and finds no pleasure in art or in h
When lepers are cured, they are normally sent away from the village, but Deo Gratias is “a burnt-out case” (21), meaning that he has been severely mutilated by the disease, having no fingers or toes, and would have an especially difficult time adapting to normal society.
Querrey denies that he is “the Querry,” the famous architect who designs churches, but Rycker promises to keep his secret.
He just wants to find peace, a desire he shares with Scobie, the protagonist of Greene’s The Heart of the Matter, and like Scobie, Querrey finds that peace is as difficult to find as it is for a cured leper to assimilate back into society.
I've always wanted to read Graham Greene, but never seemed to find the book or the time.
However, word soon spreads about who he is and the world—along with all of its problems—manages to find the architect.
Although it's a short book, it requires deep attention and Greene writes gorgeous sentences; he sets a perfect mood and I could feel the oppressive heat and felt as if I were right there...which is always a good read for me.
The book also contains one of the two best sentences I've ever read: "Men have prayed in prison, men have prayed in slums and concentration camps.
In the introduction, which I didn't read until I'd finished reading the novel itself, Greene addresses what he sees as a misapprehension, on the part of many readers, that this book is a renunciation of Catholicism.
Like a lot of novels dealing with the issue of fame, Querry's fame is not, in itself, quite believable.
And, is usual, Greene's descriptions of physical surroundings are unrivalled.There is, as always, a bit of parody (in this case in a story Querry tells and in the magazine article an intrusive reporter writes) and a set-piece which could act as a stand-alone story.
Graham Greene was a writer who put so much of himself - his thoughts and feelings, his inner conflicts, his desires and defeats - into his fiction, to such a degree that the end work is not only painful to read, due to the vulnerability of the emotions expressed, but impossible not to read.
But what a story - a renowned architect, Querry, drained dry and numbed by society and success, tries to lose himself in Africa, ending up at a Leperosie where he falls in with an atheist doctor and a group of missionary priests who are working to heal and give dignity to these afflicted souls.
His desk was littered with hardware catalogues and scraps of paper on which he had made elaborate calculations that always came out differently, for he was a bad mathematician – multiplication with him was an elaborate form of addition and a series of subtractions would take the place of long division.
One page of a catalogue was open at the picture of a bidet which the Superior had mistaken for a new kind of foot-bath.
When Mme Rycker entered he was trying to calculate whether he could afford to buy three dozen of these for the leproserie: they were just the thing for washing leprous feet."
I have been reading Graham Green long time ago, but I missed this book. I am sure it is a good book, but I could not find any setting, or situation, or a character which would have taken my fancy or to which I could relate. I also did not learn anything new by reading this book, and it was just too dark and hopeless to take it easy...
To the public, it's not the the facts about Luc/the colony that are important, but the idea of Africa, the idea of Quarry.As much as I tired of the philosophical nature of the book, I did appreciate its critique of success as a kind of "mutilation" that, perhaps more so than failure, is inescapable.
In the end, despite my lack of feeling for him throughout the narrative, I felt a bit sad for Querry, who never gets to tell his own story about himself and have it believed.
