https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146064.Jesus_Land
Many people on this forum say it was hard or impossible to believe that all of these things could have happened to one person.
But I have no trouble believing these things could have happened - in my job I hear these kind of stories every day.
The book was heartbreaking but it contained as much redemption as one could hope for.
Of course I have no idea how accurate the book really is.
But frankly I think that anyone who doesn't believe these awful things could have happened has probably lead a very sheltered life.
Julia Scheeres's memoir is perhaps one of the most haunting, powerful memoirs I've read.
She details the heart-wrenching abuse she endured at the hands of her Christian family and the abusive reform school she attended with her adopted African American brother in the Dominican Republic.
However, even as I wept for her and her brother while reading her story, I was drawn to hope, not to hatred.
Scheeres states that she is not a Christian--and after reading her story, I certainly empathise with that decision--and yet I myself was drawn more to God as I ached for her and for the abuse she endured.
I cried when I read the last line of Julia Scheeres tragic and touching memoir.
Scheeres sucked me into her life and I couldn't put the book down for a second.
Is it truly possible that while I was living a carefree childhood, Scheeres (who is only two years older than me) was living in a private hell?
Jesus Land touches on many different universal themes of Scheeres life from religious zealousness to blatant racism to misogyny and sexual abuse.
Coming from a fairly religious family myself, I can truly relate with the damage that can be done to individuals and families all in the name of Jesus.
So here’s a not-exclusive list of further incorrect statements in the book:1) “Until [1981], we attended a Dutch Calvinist school as well, where all the kids were blonde and lanky like me.” I have in my hand a picture of the graduating class of David and Julia Scheeres and another of my class.
Much of the flavor of the book paints Indiana as a hybrid of a KKK rally and a liberal’s Facebook feed about WalMart, crudely designed to play to the prejudices of Scheeres’ Berkeley/NPR crowd.7) I think it highly unlikely that racism was ubiquitous as portrayed in the environments in which David Scheeres was raised.

Julia writes this honest memoir of her Christian childhood.
Julia's mom is obsessed with missionaries and constantly plays Christian music.
Julia's surgeon father is worse.
Such are constant Christian music playing, Christian adages, Scripture throwing and memorizing, letter writing to missionaries, church attendance and many more.
However, Julia didn't write the memoir about her perfect Christian childhood.
She wrote about the dark horrors she and her brothers suffered through...in the name of Christianity.
And if that wasn't bad, things become worse when David and Julia are sent to the Dominican Republic to a Christian reform school.
Despite the horrors of Christianity's dark secrets and hypocrisy, Julia's memoirs was an interesting read.
The memoir's strength lies in Scheeres's ability to make her young self and her "twin" adopted brother, David, come to life.
A noticeable tone-change slices the story into a distinct first and second half.
Throughout this first half, Scheeres recounted occurrences with a certain emotional detachment while still stirring up plenty of emotion.
What Scheeres presented is deeply unsettling and sad, but readers are allowed to feel those things on their own.
During the second half, though, Scheeres's bitterness sneaked in.
A twist in the memoir's final pages upends the story and confirms the adage that in many ways “truth is stranger than fiction.” Truth also can be worlds more devastating.
I was told not to focus on the cover, that this book was not about religion.
This book is a Memior, written by a woman who's strictly devout Midwestern Calvinist white parents adopted two young black boys to raise with their 4 children.
The woman of the story is three years old at the time, the same age as the youngest black boy.
The story is told in the voice of the young girl from the age of 16 and 17, with flash backs to times during the years they were growing up.
There is no happy ending, except that the story is told.
The events in this memoir are incredibly tragic, as is the approach to explaining them.
Overall, a compelling childhood presented in a childish way.
The relationship between David and Julia is heartbreaking.
A black adopted brother, the privileged white biological daughter that loves him.
It took me a long time to finish this book.
It was interesting enough, and well written, but there was something terribly offensive about it.
It was one of those "I was down, fighting off a hangover and wondering if I was pregnant" type reads.
I wish I could write a better review, but it just left me feeling incomplete.
Are the kids that laughed at him racist?While Scheers writes of cases of clear, cut and dried racism – such as the farmer boys in the pickup truck, and the instances at the swimming pool – she also writes of other instances that make me question the veracity (?) necessity (?) of her playing the race card.The two key conflicts in this book:				1.) determining racism/ fighting against it				2.) true Christianity vs.
And, while I don’t want to act like I agree with their style of parenting or condone it, I wonder what gives her the right to cast the first stone?
Such a tragic, heart breaking story that once again, just makes me want to go find some kid and just hug them.
The amount of abuse that these kids went through made for a tough read.
It's interesting to read this after The Glass Castle and Running with Scissors, other stories about equally difficult childhoods, but each author had different ways to protect themselves.
Running with Scissors was about using humor in the face of pure shit.
Glass Castle had indeed, a wall around how awful a childhood could be.
Julia's story was about staying alive by staying together...
This is an oldie!I read this long before I was writing reviews ---I was looking through my Friday reviews this morning by many of you charming people --when I came across this book again.This book is another reminder of how religion can go wrong-wrong-wrong! **NOTE: Its kinda-creepy-weird reading...(hard to pull yourself away)....but not pleasant!
The book highlights how far racism could drive someone in the 1980's, which can make this memoir seem as if it were fiction.A memorable event would be the time when Julia, now affected by the humiliation coming from her classmates, denies being David's real sister, not knowing that David was standing right behind her.
Jesus Land, tells that story very well, revealing that sometimes we have to learn and play society's game to reach the place we have always dreamed of.After finishing Jesus Land by Julia Scheeres, I would recommend it to those who are interested in knowing how life really was in the 1980's, especially when it comes to racism.
I have read many books about people coming from rough back rounds and leaving the faith of their childhood, but none as heart wrenching as this.
I loved reading about David, Julia’s brother.
Over and over the adults in the lives of Julia and David chose religion over love and the others.
It seemed they had no real examples of love in their lives or even civility for that matter.In the end what kept me engaged in this book were two things.
Realizing that as in my own childhood, the rescuers never came, in the end you have to rescue yourself.I would recommend this book.
Her close, almost twin-like relationship with her brother David is the heart of the book.
Trapped in their nightmare of a family, David desperately yearns for the happiness depicted on "The Brady Bunch," while Julia plots her perfect future from the pages of the Sears catalogue.The second half of the book deals with the siblings' "adventures" at a Christian "boot camp" ("concentration camp" the author intones) in the Dominican Republic.
Snitching on peers is encouraged by the management, and they soon learn to trust no one.
A hard lesson to learn when they both long wholeheartedly for friendship and social acceptance.
As a transracial adoptee who was adopted into a fundamental Christian home and who also had siblings "homegrown" to my a-parents, I found this memoir quite interesting - especially the first half dealing with their teen years in a small farming community in Indiana.
I would have liked to have read more about Julia's other older siblings and I thought the second half (about Julia and her brother's experiences at a reform school in the Dominican Republic) was not as compelling.
It was those small details of her childhood and how she interpreted/processed the racism within the family and community her transracially adopted brothers had to deal with, that was more compelling to me.
Only read this book if you want to become depressed. It is very well written and the characters are so memorable but the story is just too hard to take at times. One of the people in my book club expained it best by stating that sometimes you had to walk away from it to be able to finish it. If you ever thought that your life growing up was hard, read this in comparison becuase it will make you thank your parents (thanks Mom!) for giving you a great childhood.
The older boy, Jerome, rebels; the younger boy, David, whom Julia is memorializing in this book, dreams of a happy, functional family but only Julia is receptive to returning his affection.
David grows increasingly depressed and withdrawn and begins to engage in self-harm, while Julia drinks on the quiet and gets into a dead-end sexual relationship with a boy at school who is clearly using her.
Eventually David gets sent to a Christian reform school in the Dominican Republic, followed by Julia a bit later.
But wait -- the father is physically abusive and breaks David's arm.
Fascinating & shocking look at life in a conservative Christian family in the bible belt. I was horrified by the racism, emotional abuse and physical abuse that these kids suffered at the hands of their parents and the Christian reform school they were sent to. I really didn't know that schools like these existed, I guess I'm naive. I always appreciative my own normal upbringing when I read a book like this one.
I've finished the this book and still can't believe it happened. I kept having to remind myself that it was nonfiction.
I greatly appreciated Scheeres' "A Thousand Lives" (about the Peoples Temple/Jonestown) some years ago, and finally picked up Jesus Land when I stumbled upon it in a used book shop a few weeks ago.
However, I was totally unprepared for the, well, harrowing story of her home life in rural Indiana prior to her being shipped off to the Caribbean.
Having been raised by reactionary fundamentalist Christians in the rural upper Midwest, I found Scheeres prose unsettling in its utter accuracy. Both brutal and banal, she writes of casual as well as overt racism, sexual abuse that's all too common, and the aggressively ignorant beliefs of evangelical Christians who care more about power over people than any kind of goodness. This memoir made me shudder and reminded me of all the shame, rage, fear, and confusion I experienced growing up just a decade off from her and couple states north.
4.5 stars Once I got into this book, I couldn’t put it down, letting my other books sit so I could finish it. I’ve had it on my shelf for a long time and finally decided to pick it up and so glad that I did. An amazing, sorrowful memoir that I recommend to everyone.
"Just as Jesus requires blind faith from his believers, we require blind faith from our students." Julia's narrative flows like a well-written novel which I appreciate because it broaches some tremendously tough subjects: racism, religion, mental, physical, and sexual abuse. The school in the DR is only part of the story. Home life was a mess. It's a tough read, but worth it.
She tells the story of sexual abuse from one of her adopted brothers, her immense love for the other, her parents who practiced corporal punishment in its worst forms, and her time at Escuela Caribe, the now famous Christian reform boot camp in the Dominican Republic.Some have accused Scheeres of being a member of the James Frey Club.
Having read a few of Frey's books, I completely disagree.
Not that unlike the parents in this book.What goes on at Escuela Caribe is sick and sad.
Aside from limited knowledge of the Pearls, I am not well educated in this sort of "Christian parenting" as my unbringing was completely different.
This book, though written in Julia, the youngest daughter's voice and is her memoir, is equally about David, her only months younger brother.
After living with years of beatings and no particular kindness or care from their parents, they are eventually bith sent to Escuela Caribe (same school featured in the documentary Kidnapped for Christ, just about 14 yeara earlier--the "schoo"l operated for decades), where they were subjected to more abuses, brainwashing, and daily punishments for zero or minor infractions.
The author loves her adoptive brother, but is also embarassed by and ashamed of his blackness, and by the time they get to high school refuses to be seen with him.
The author's depiction of the growing bond between her and her brother is rendered somewhat incredible by her earlier admission of how she treated him at the high school -- I found myself wondering if she was remembering their relationship the way she wished it had been rather than the way it actually was.By the time I finished the book, I no longer either liked her or believed her version of her life events much.
My 7-year-old son saw me reading this book.Son: Why are you reading a book called Jesus Land?Me: It's a true story, about this girl...
Oh, here, read the back.Son (after reading the back of the book): Why are you reading about a girl with a messed up life?Me: I don't know.I have seen this book around, but wasn't sure about committing, and then I saw it at the Friends of the Library book sale -- the one where you can fill a grocery bag with books for $1.
My standards get lower when faced with tables of super cheap books.Jesus Land is a train wreck from which I could not look away.
I mean, in Proverbs alone there are highly offensive passages such as the one often quoted by the 'missionaries' in this book, 'spare the rod, spoil the child' stuff.
I mean we don't follow the instructions about stoning one another for various transgressions any more!) God's kind of Love does not include hatred and cruelty, yet the Bible is used so often to justify people's actions of hatred and cruelty.
For that Love is what God intended for them to understand and know...
(The other 'Christian' stuff in this book...
This memoir points out a lot of the problems I have with certain religious types.
The author's parents adopt two black children in the name of charity but then proceed to neglect all of their children, trying to substitute their own lack of ability to love with God's love.Things get to a point where the author passively experiences racism, rape and complete subjugation of her free will in a very matter-of-fact and observational way.
She's numb to what's happening even as she tells it in her own memoir.
But the incredible epilogue in a way completely washes those complaints away.
