https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273335.Abide_in_Christ
Update: Still the best devotional I've ever read.
Set out in 31 short chapters you can easily use this as a devotional to accompany daily Scripture readings.
Murray walks us through the abide passages (John 15, et al)and talks both theologically and practically about how that plays out in life.
I have read and reread this book over the years and it is perennially valuable and insightful.
Murray comes from a Calvinist perspective but you'll read a few things that seem to deviate from a strict determinist view as he navigates the very real mystery between God's sovereignty and our practical day to day relation to it.
This book is so simple. "All that you can wish to know is perfectly clear to Him. He has access to the cousels of Diety, to the sectets of Providence, in your interest and on your behalf. If you will but trust Him fully, and abide in Him entirely, hyou can be confident of having unerring guidance." That's all I want really:)
Wow! This was absolutely amazing! Definitely encouraged me in so many ways, and I love Murray's writing style. It kept me engaged and interested at all times, and I liked the short sections that made for easy reading. This book is so deep, so the short sections were definitely necessary. I would highly recommend this for any Christian wanting to grow closer to Christ!
I am currently readying this old book - from my husband's grandfather's library. I have read one of Andrew Murray's books before when my grandfather gave me one as a teenager. I am finding this old classic to be very thought -provoking and inspiring and reassuring as i continue on my spiritual journey.the paragraphs are too long and the language is "old" but rich. each daily meditation is much too much for one day for me. i spend at least a week on each "day."
This book is a treasure in plain binding.
When I first received it, I hoped for a quick, hopefully decent devotional I could read during busy days.
What I got was the best pastoring from a book I've ever experienced.
It contains, I think, the whole heart of Christian living.After one chapter in particular, I looked up from the book and said, "If I weren't saved already, I think I would've just gotten saved reading that chapter." I'm not sure any book but the Bible has been this beneficial to me.
Abiding in Christ has always been a challenging notion for me.
How do you actually live it, daily?
Well this 31 day devotional from Murray goes a long way to being able to guide the reader on how to do it.This is a meaty read as any one who knows Murray's work knows.
However, it is so worth soaking in it.
I'm certain I'll find new rich nuggets of wisdom each additional time I read it.Each devotion is 4-5 pages long and is based on verse that can be associated with "abiding".
Excellent book! Filled with practical nuggets of truth! Andrew Murray has a wonderful way of taking God's word, breaking it down and making it applicable. I can barely make it through one page without being convicted, admonished and encouraged! A wonderful companion to my bible reading.
short chapters full of life-giving words that continually point me back dependence on God and His kindness and grace for me.
I really enjoy Murray's intimate knowledge of the Lord, and his warm and devitional encouragement. This book helped me bask in the warmth of the joy of the Lord.
A book to definitely read slowlyPoignant Quotes:Our doing and working are but the fruit of Christ's work in us.You can trust Him to keep you trusting and abiding.Live your daily life in the full consciousness of being righteous in God's sight, an object of delight and pleasure in Christ.
Be a soldier that asks nothing but the orders of the commander....there is nothing so attractive as joy, no preaching so persuasive as the sight of hearts made glad.The Christian often tries to forget his weakness: God wants us to remember it, to feel it deeply.He does not, as so many believers imagine, take the feeble life He finds in them, and impart a little strength to aid them in their feeble efforts.
This book / devotional had a substantial effect on my day-to-day life, and how I understood and engaged with promises of scripture (and abiding) that I had too often overlooked. It takes a close and focused reading to fully grasp the concepts the author is explaining, so it took me longer than 31 days to finish. I would highly recommend to anyone who wants to learn more of what it looks like to abide in Christ.
Three stars does not reflect the quality of this book but merely my connection to it. Murray says many very good things on the subject of abiding in Christ, but I just had difficultly getting into this book for some reason. Maybe it was a timing issue.
This is in my top five. Wonderful. Wonderful.
murray is one of my all time favorites; i love all his books
My all-time favorite devotional. I read and re-read this book.
Great devotional classic
Excellent.
There are some really good thoughts on what the abiding life is like.
His account of the abiding life is kind of timeless because he emphasizes the inward dimension of life in Christ.
The big take away that struck me as I read this was how much the vine grower and the vine desire branches to be fruitful.
Murray also stresses, in the early chapters, the mutuality of abiding.
Also a reflection that came to me as I read this is how to understand the abundant fruitful life as a 'for others' sort of life.
Great book...John 15:7 - "If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you."
This book is written for every believer who has struggled with sin and failed repeatedly, which probably is most of us; this is a struggle that can leave us discouraged and full of doubt.
This book was written for every believer who has longed to have a closer relationship with God but isn’t quite sure how to achieve it.
Through Murray’s book, the reader learns the art of dwelling in God’s presence.Murray makes it clear that the victory and deliverance are accomplished facts.
That is why it would probably be wise to frequently return to Murray’s book, to be reminded of the need to abandon ourselves completely in order to abide in Christ more fully.
(Note: I read a free e-book.) This makes an excellent month-long devotional.
It is quite meaty, and I found I needed to digest it in smaller "bites." These readings required a quiet solitude not often available to me as a wife and mother.
I read a chapter first thing in the morning, but if the day was already moving I could not give the reading the contemplation it deserved and so deferred it to another day.
As with many works by this author, this book deserves regular revisiting.
It's on my re-read list.

If you really want to grow closer to God, and long to abide in Him, this book is for you.
It is old fashioned in some ways, (Though the English is updated in this version, so the grammar is a little easier to read--but it still sounds different from how we write today.) but I think it is a good kind of old fashioned.
You can tell that the author not only believes what he writes, he also lives it.
While this book is encouraging, it is also challenging and convicting.
I advise taking it slowly and really thinking and praying through it.
I know I will return to this book often in the years to come. I have savored it, wrestled with it, and prayed over it- and still do. I feel like Andrew Murray is one of my mentors- I admire his faith in God and was often challenged and convicted through these devotional readings. Highly recommend.It was just as good the second time as the first. Interesting how certain things resonated with me in this reading that I did not mark the first time through. So thankful for Murray's wisdom and encouragement.
I think this 31-day devotional was even better the second time around. :) Each section is so deep and so challenging. I was often left reeling at the wonder of what it meant to abide in Christ as Murray expounded on the Biblical truth of it. My life has been changed by this book, my security in Christ has strengthened, my desire to live for Him has increased, and my love for Him has grown. This is a book I will be reading again - and a book I would recommend to every Christian!
This is a book I think all Christians should read at least once a year. It's written to be read devotionally in 30 daily readings. We are called to Come to Christ and Abide in Christ and yet I bet most of us aren't really sure what it means to abide or how it is accomplished. I found this book to be very insightful and practical. I look forward to reading this book again and again and gaining something new each time!
It took me a while to figure out the writing style and how to read this book, so it took me a while to get through it. It was a really good book though. I really like how the emphasis was not on works, but on the God-enable ability to abide in Christ. It really had some great nuggets in it about how all parts of our lives should grow out of that restful relationship of Christ and His bride. Great stuff!
This book had a lot of meat in it, so i read it more like a daily devotional than a book. Murray writes about such foundational, but often over looked, elements in our relationship with the Lord. His passion and intimacy is evident and I think this book is a tremendous resource for those who want to live in the fullness of their walk with God.
Outstanding set of short messages--almost perfect for daily devotions--on living in Christ. I don't know whether this is a modern collection of Murray's work, or one he made himself, but most of the selections are well focused and developed.A very good read for the Christian seeking a closer walk with God.
Abide in Christ by Andrew Murray helped to open my eyes to the fact that you do not have to be a “super saint” or a monk to be partakers of the divine nature. The call “Abide in Me” comes to all who received the “Follow Me” request. Jesus does the calling and it is in His power that I am able to follow and abide
