https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261193.Operation_World
Operation World: The Definitive Prayer Guide to Every Nation is a book that can change the world.
Operation World lists every country in the world, giving information on Geography, Peoples, Economy, Politics, and Religion for each country.
The book is packed with information.Operation World is designed to be used as a prayer guide with a date listed at the bottom of each page so you can work your way through it in a year.
Christians around the world can and will be informed, guided and inspired by this book.
Sure, it's 15 years out of date, and basically every single statistic in it is no longer accurate, but the gist of it is all true - and the needs for prayer are probably even more true now than they were 15 years ago.
I was somewhat discouraged by the warnings and cautions Johnstone gave us 15 years ago about so many "trouble spots" that have since blown up in "our" (not mine, personally) faces.
I think my personal view of world missions has matured thanks to this journey, especially because I was refreshed by Johnstone's view of international missionary work.
But later, by the help of the Holy Spirit they did "lift up their eyes," and catch a vision for reaching the ends of the earth with gospel of their Risen Christ!Over the years, through using this resource in private prayer and in our family worship God has "lifted up my eyes" to the harvest and given me bigger vision both for what God is doing and the vast needs that still remain among the 7 billion people in this world.
Packed with informative and inspiring fuel for prayer about every country of the world, it is essential for anybody who wants to make a difference.
It contains information for all the continents and every country in the world.REVIEW: This book is very long and has taken me over a year to read, a few pages a day, as I discovered the status of Christianity in each country in the world.
First, Christianity is not dead and is a growing faith in many parts of the world.
This book is a real wake-up call to Christians that there is still mjuch work to be done before the Second Coming.
More of an ongoing resource rather than a book to read from cover to cover
Some major themes:- The church is growing rapidly in almost every developing country.
Even in countries where the church is exploding, there are large isolated groups of people who haven't heard the gospel.- Australia is the best place in the world to live (and I'm being objective about that -- seriously!), but no poster child for the church.
However, we have amazing opportunities to share the gospel with immigrants from unreached people groups, because many of them have large populations living in Australia.
It's an interesting read even from a secular point of view.For a person like me, who worries about politics a lot, this book was very helpful.The review of one European country said, "Despite greater than ever freedoms,unhappiness,suicide, self-harm, and mental health problems have reached alarming levels.
Also, I believe the allure of ever increasing freedom is actually an illusion.Western Civilization is in a demographic downward spiral though most of our newspapers choose to ignore this.
Our children are not taught about the positive achievements of Western Civilization or the high points of Western Culture.

With this book, you basically pray for one country per day, alphabetically, as the year advances.
If the country is bigger, you pray for it longer - so we're about to start praying for India and we won't stop until July 4.
And it breaks the larger nations up into provinces (which typically have a greater population than the average country).
A great way to get to know the nations of the world better - and to have a heart which is concerned with the needs of the world!
I HIGHLY recommend this book.
It really gives one a missions heart.
Part CIA World Factbook, part church strategy, this is an invaluable for us missionaries at home. A great daily guide to praying for the world's lost. "How, then, can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whome they have not heard? And how can they hear withotu someone preaching to them? And how can they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, 'How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news!'" Romans 10:14-15
You want to know about other cultures and their belief, then thus is a book for you, basically everything you need to know. If you travel thus is a good book to carry with you or to study before you go to other places, so you will know something about thee people before you invade their land. A good bok to have in your collection.
The standard text on missions to the nations, Operation World is comprehensive as it is systematic. An excellent reference tool to have on your shelf, as you join countless other believers in praying for the nations. Definitely a must have for the Christian who understands the importance of proper missiology both away and at home.Brent McCulley
Operation World is a book that every Christian needs on thier coffee table. It is a constant reminder to pray for the nations and the people groups around the world. For someone who has a heart for missions this book is a must. When I watch the news or a movie or any situation it is cool to look it up and find out how I can pray for that country.
This is one I'll be reading all year. It is filled with fascinating information and guides to praying for every (?) nation in the world. Recommended in "Radical."Since I'm not making progress, I've moved this to not finished.
I loved this book. I pray for a page a day and I highlight the word "pray" in yellow and I say "Lord Jesus I pray ...." I've started through it a second time and am anxious to know when the next edition will be released. I encourage everyone to pray through this book and help our world.
I read this book at a season in my life that I was just learning about the sincerity of third-world Christians. I was fascinated by the information, and even just the geography was mind-opening. I haven't been the same person since!
A great resource to see what is going on in the world and how to pray for it. Each country is methodically research and the needs are not generic rewrite of each other. I've gone through this book twice and been very encouraged both times
Operation World is a book every praying Christian should get their hands on. If I were limited to keeping just two books in my personal library, I'd choose the Bible and Operation World. This book gives you insight into global needs that enhances the impact of your prayer life.
There is so much information in this book; it's an amazing work. I could not help but be motivated to pray as I read. I recommend this for anyone who has a heart for the world, or wants to have a heart for the world.
I use this every year to pray through for over 10 years. I never can get through it like I would like to, but do as i am able. has so much to do in it.
Family reads this at dinner each night
This has been so fun to use with the boys. Looking up where the county is, learning a little, praying for them. It has been such a sweet time!!
Christianity Today editors' review: The who, where, what, why, when, and how many of unreached peoples.
hopefully something i will continue for the rest of my life here on earth.9/8/07 - i realize, i forgot to bring it to TW -_-
Great book for staying aware on global prayer issues! This is the 2001 edition, so hopefully a new edition will come out soon (a lot has changed post-911).
Awesome^10
Un libro con información precisa sobre los países menos evangelizados. Me ayudó (y me sigue ayudando) bastante para poder orar de manera más específica.
Awesome! I wish this was on every Christian's bookshelf. Covers all the countries/territories of the world discussing facts, Christian history and prayer points for each.
NO other book quite like this.
Unbelievable guide to prayer for the nations.
