https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13995.Winds_of_Fate
Let it be known: Before I was an elitist literary bitch, I utterly adored fantasy books.  Mercedes Lackey was the greatest thing in my entire eleven-year-old life.
I like Darkwind and Elspeth a lot, and I like the overall storyline about Elspeth bringing magic (and the knowledge of the Tayledras) back to Valdemar.
I liked the whole thing with the ruined Heartstone and Darkwind's struggles with his father.
All of this was good.But I don't like how casually Lackey uses rape to get her point across.
Really, really evil.) I also don't like how easily rape victims in her books recover and are able to enjoy sex so soon after being raped.
The snarky sword had a better character arc than Skif did in this book.I like Valdemar, but all the rape is getting on my nerves.
http://bookslifewine.com/r-winds-of-f...This is it. The book that started it all. The beginning of my Mercedes Lackey habit and my Fantasy journey. For me, Everything Valdemar begins with Elspeth. From my review of  By the Sword :  I first met Mercedes Lackey while browsing the stacks at the public library in my home town. I don't remember what grade I was in but I was somewhere in the area that covers both Middle and High school. Regardless, before Mercedes Lackey, I'd mostly read a lot of Scie
When reading about Kerowyn in By the Sword (or any Valdemar book), I think "Elspeth's _____!" I started with Elspeth and everything still flows through her.
But what I LOVE about Elspeth is that her special-ness comes pretty honestly: her pedigree is well plotted out over the course several different Valdemar books - she didn't just pop up with powers out of nowhere.
I love Darkwind - almost as much as I like Elspeth.
Winds of Fate (and the rest of the Valdemar series) is what I call "hopeful" fantasy: while there maybe sad parts, the good guys will win the day.
If you're new to Lackey and the Valdemir series, I wouldn't begin with this book: I don't think the book, or the trilogy it is a part of, is the strongest in this series, and it would be a spoiler for the earlier trilogy that starts with Arrows of the Queen.
So I'd recommend reading those, too, beginning with The Oathbound because for me a lot of the fun of this book is how Elspeth deals with the demanding sword, Need, that is important in those books.
I was surprised by how easily I got to grips with the mythology of this world and the characters despite not having read from the traditional starting point.
However, the writing is a bit simplistic for me, especially for epic fantasy, and i felt like i was reading a book that’s suitable for children, which isn’t what I lean towards usually.
But that’s a personal issue that may not bother you.Overall, i did really enjoy this book, i itched to keep reading it and i even dreamt about it at one point which is unusual for me.
It was a re-read; I read this novel the first time long ago. A good, solid fantasy novel, it is much lighter than many recent novels of the same genre. Although I didn’t like the heroine, Elspeth, much – she is such a brat and she treats her friend Skif like dirt – the story flows nicely and pulls the reader in. I always liked the Tayledras, and this is as much their book as it is Elspeth’s. And of course the gryphons are pure delight.Off to the next book in the series.
There was absolutely nothing wrong with this book, I simply didn't have time to read this week, and when I did, my back ached so much I had no desire to read.
:/Anywho, I quite enjoyed this tale, although it definitely has the old school feel of Valdemar before things were truly established.
I enjoyed seeing Elspeth and Darkwind finally meet, and getting more backstory for the books I've read recently.
I love that this available in a three pack on Kindle, it means I can just keep reading the next book!Four stars, more reviews to follow soon (Hopefully they don't take me a week to read!)
Elspeth--the legendary Brat from the Heralds of Valdemar--goes traveling with Skif to find someone to teach the Heralds magic. Skif gets a character rewrite as a chauvinist to allow Lackey to preach, which I don't like because he was such an awesome boy when he and Talia were not!dating. Elspeth is ranty and not very sympathetic. I do like Darkwind, the Griffins, and the Tayledras culture--it is a nice break from typical fantasy fare.
Suffers greatly from Elspeth becoming insufferable halfway through the book, and the "Worf"ing of poor Skif, who is written completely against character to serve the purposes of Elspeth's perspective and story.
- but the funny thing is, it's still a comforting place to go for a grownup who can't even pretend to be a teenager anymore.
Also, this is the first time we get to spend any real length of time in a Tayledras vale, with all its swarthy scenery and decadent pleasure - where even the threats seem like they'd be worth it.If you're new to Valdemar, I'd recommend beginning at the beginning with Arrows of the Queen (which I almost didn't buy because the cover looked so silly-little-girlish), and the Herald Mage series (start with Magic's Pawn) is the next logical step.
This author was recommended to me since I love to read fantasy, but if this book is a fair representation of her stories, I don't know if I'll be seeking another of her titles in the immediate future.The beginning really dragged with two characters narrating the story who had no apparent connection.
Even though it is book one of a trilogy, it has its own story problem and a clear resolution (even though the resolution is just that both of the main characters are in a different place emotionally and mentally at the end).
I think Mercedes Lackey was at an awkward point when she wrote this trilogy, because this (and the stand-alone novel By The Sword) is where she merged a variety of her fantasy settings together, and the result is a bit clunky.
Lackey obviously loves animals a lot and it comes through in her writing.
Her narrative skills are not, but again, she set herself a hard task by trying to merge divergent storylines together.
At least this time her main characters (Elspeth and Darkwind) are not complete Mary Sues.
I found Darkwind a bit pompous, but liked Elspeth a lot.
I still re-read them from time to time just because I really like the characters.
Before you read it, make sure you've read the black griffon trilogy, which is actually kind of crappy and I blame it on her husband that co-wrote it with her, but it gives you a good background.
They all have something to do with what happens next.With Lackey its all about the depth of the world, the writing will get a bit repetative, but if you like the world and the characters and the ways they go about things, the entire Valdemar series is a lot of fun to jump into.
awful lot of Mary Sue's and Gary Sue's and that's usually expected in high fantasy but this is nearly ridiculous.
the worst was obviously Elspeth and the near unrecognizable character of Skif (changing his layered character into 'grunt Misogyny' was lazy writing, Lackey).
The 180° relationship seemed less like Elspeth was, rightfully, asserting independence and more as if Lackey was going 'look at my strong female character.
It seems too harsh but I always have more hope for Lackeys work than I ever usually get
I ordinarily love Lackey's Valdemar books, but I had trouble with this one.
I'm guessing it's because it was published in 1991 and Lackey's writing skills weren't what they became later on.
The skipping of focus from one character to another was maddening.
So I started bookmarking the Darkwind chapters and only read Elspeth until finally there was mention of Darkwind in an Elspeth chapter.
Then I went back and read the Darkwind chapters.
When I caught up, the two were in all the same chapters and the reading went better for me.
This is the first book of Elspeth’s story—she’s the daughter of the queen Talia serves, who was the “brat” in Talia’s stories.
Elspeth heads off to see whether she has any mage talent and learn how to be a Herald Mage (since she’s already a mage) in company of a Herald friend.
And there’s a Tayledras mage, Darkwind, who won’t use his power anymore because he believes he did something wrong.
And there’s a gryphon family who are his friends.
Elspeth doesn’t like being pushed, so she heads off in her own direction and winds up meeting and helping Darkwind.
This is the first book I read. It was the launching pad of my love for reading. It is a good book very well writin, good plot, with just a hint of sexual tone to make the teen i was stay on it.
I wish you died somewhere in these books Elspeth. I hate you. I don't think the books themselves sucked quite enough to give a 2, but it wasn't from lack of your trying, you wench.
Re-read. And, okay, they aren't great literature, but they're awesome for when your brain is mushy. I just wish Lackey's idea of a Sexy Man didn't look quite so... 1980s.
Back in the heady days of 2016, when some of us thought there might be a chance of electing a woman as president of the US (and yes, it matters that it is the president of the US and not some other country; lovely as it is that countries like Iceland have had female presidents, they're not empires, are they?
"Winds of Fate" could be the worst book in the world and it would still be important.
THIS IS A BOOK ABOUT A PRINCESS WHO HAS A MAGICAL TALKING HORSE AS HER BEST FRIEND.
I hated Gwyna's name throughout the reading, and Skiff's companion was less memorable because her greatest gift was her loyalty, not unlike Skiff himself.Some have mentioned these books being violent, and indeed there is a haunting incident that takes place in Elspeth's potting shed, her refuge.
Most of this series is about a girl escaping expectations, and growing into herself, but it is this incident of having her privacy invaded, of being followed by first a friendly sort of interloper and then a most unfriendly sort that impels her to seek a life outside of the Kingdom, searching for mages to train Herald Mages, or perhaps just mages to protect the Kingdom.I enjoyed her library research, the fact that she keeps overlooking forbidden passages and has to keep plying herself to the books to get through the 'aze" that seems to descend when the forbidden topic, magic, is discussed.
On the one hand, the book is great world building, and we see a lot more of the world from the POV of Heralds than we have before, and it ties in so many of the threads that Lackey has been setting up in her other books, and begins to set into motion the events of the Mage Storms, my favourite trilogy...On the other, I find Skif incredibly annoying, Elspeth weaves back and forth between annoying and compelling, and half of Elsepth's sections make me want to toss the book aside.
I can see why this series isn't my favourite, but it definitely reveals A LOT about the world, and it makes sense to include it in my reread of the series.
Arrows of the Queen sets up the politics of the world slowly, so you don't even realize you're learning about it until you're three books deep.
With Winds of Fate, book 1 of the Mage Winds trilogy, we're already ensnared in politics right from the get go.
The plot is definitely way faster paced than the AOTQ trilogy, but I personally would have been too confused starting with this one.But understanding everything, this book is amazing.
You finally start learning about why magic doesn't work inside Valdemar.
I first read 'Winds of Fate' as a child, and loved it then, so it has a certain sentimental value for me.
Even so, for an adult it has a number of glaring faults present that I never noticed on earlier readings.
First, the plot doesn't make sense.
Elspeth is supposed to be fulfilling her duty by either finding a mage or learning magecraft post-haste, and she's in danger besides.
The characters are stereotypical and the author needed to devote too much to post-hoc explanations for their actions.
My favorite aspect of this book--by far--is Darkwind.
He has an Aragorn-style hero about him, early on, and that appealed to me, especially as a balance to the earlier personalities of Elspeth and Skif.
Both improve though, much later on.
I have been reading this phase of Valdemar's history in chronological order for some time.
It is my bedtime reading, so I don't advance far, as I fall asleep so soon.
However, the book really picked up the pace in the last third, and I did start reading it at other times in the day.
Just love Darkwind.
Second favorite--the gyrphons.
This took quite a long time for me to read, as I couldn't stay engaged for some reason. Some of it had to do with the two storylines that didn't meet up until about page 300. In fact, it took me so long to read that I had forgotten the reason for Elspeth's quest until a it was mentioned again in the last 50 pages. It's definitely part of a series, as there's a longer arc that was left unresolved. I don't know how I feel about continuing, which means it is unlikely.
Man, Elspeth is just my absolute least favorite character in Valdemar. Her personality shifts from book to book depending on what's required of her, and I just don't find myself particularly interested in her growth as a person, or her growth as an heir to Valdemar's throne. So aside from not really caring for the main character, and the oodles of unnecessary rape (honestly, why?????), this book was a bit of a snooze and unless you're a completist, you can pass.
FINALLY! A story about Elspeth!!!I was so excited the first time I read this book to finally get to read Elsepeth's story. I remember being daunted by the beginning with Darkwind and thinking "where am I??" The relationship between Skif and Elspeth is brilliantly written and this is the bright new addition to the world of Valdemar. The only reason I give 4 instead of 5 stars is because of the sheer TIME it takes to bring the stories together.
Love itI have read this before, many years ago. Don't go into thins expecting an ending. It is the first book in a trilogy and part of an even larger series, but you don't need to know that going in. I love Lackey's writing style. Her characters jump off the page and her plots take many twists and turns. There were a few typos I noticed in the ebook that I don't remember in the print version, but they didn't detract from my enjoyment of the book.
Extraordinary creation of a believable world of images and magicA world of Mages and magic made believable through exceptional character terrorist development of both hero's and villains. The author does an extraordinary job of creating an image in the readers mind of a woman fearful and frightening fantasy world that I look forward to visiting again.
