https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67885.The_Portable_Jung
People will do anything, no matter how absurd, to avoid facing their own souls.  Many years ago, after finishing Joseph Campbell’s Hero with a Thousand Faces, I was so impressed that I set myself the goal to read all of the authors Campbell cites as major influences—Freud, Nietzsche, Frazer, Durkheim, William James, and the biggest influence, Carl Jung. Unfortunately, as in most of my reading projects, I got sidetracked before finishing; so this collection of Jung’s works, edited by Campbell hi
Many years ago, after finishing Joseph Campbell’s Hero with a Thousand Faces, I was so impressed that I set myself the goal to read all of the authors Campbell cites as major influences—Freud, Nietzsche, Frazer, Durkheim, William James, and the biggest influence, Carl Jung.
Unfortunately, as in most of my reading projects, I got sidetracked before finishing; so this collection of Jung’s works, edited by Campbell himself, sat neglected and unread on my bookshelf for a long while.
For Freud, dreams, neuroticisms, and religious visions were all suppressed memories and secret desires, buried deep in the unconscious due to their illicit nature, manifesting themselves in veiled language and strange behavior.
It was very clear and comprehensive, and with Campbell's vast knowledge on mythological matters, thus linking him to analytical psychology to an extent, I trust that the selections of text are some of the best for a good understanding of Jung's theories.
It covers his views on marriage, religion, alchemy, etc, and contains his writing that explains some of his most important concepts.
I don't just learn about analytical psychology through this book - Jung often makes allusions to religion or mythology or history, and then I search other sources to know more about what he brought up in passing.
Overall, this is an excellent exposure to Jung's writing.

"The Portable Jung" solved a problem for me: I had always wanted to read some of Jung's work, but I had no idea where to start -- and he has written a lot of very long books.
This compendium, edited by Joseph Campbell, seemed to me to be a very good introduction to Jung's thought.There are 15 essays in the 650 pages, and though as usual some are better than others, by the time I finished "The Portable Jung" I felt I had a much better understanding of his thought.
For newbies like me, "The Portable Jung" is an easily digestible place to start learning about one of the 20th century's great thinkers.
If any of you reading this review would like, I can give you a copy of that chapter.Jung is the progenitor of some very important ideas in pschology, including the idea of the collective unconscious, intraverted/extraverted personality types, and a strategy to bridge the conscious mind with the unconscious by a means called the 'transcendent function', which is basically being able to guide your conscious mind while being able to extract from your unconscious mind what is needed to function more healthfully.
The thing that struck me while reading it, is how on earth did one man have a brain so fantastically intelligent and creative at the same time.
How on earth did he have time to have all these amazing thoughts.
While he certainly does owe much to the thinking of Freud, Jung's thoughts diverge pretty greatly from where Freud left off and take us to amazing places.
Some of these things are astute observations.
Still more are speculative conjectures of a fantastical degree.
I love him, I love this compilation of his thoughts and I look forward to reading it again.
If you're like most people then you'll probably go to amazon or some other place so I will save you the trouble and post the link.http://www.amazon.com/Portable-Jung-V...Now to the book.Edited by Joseph Campbell ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_C...) and translated by R.F.C. Hull this collection of works (which I've found to be very extensive but by far just the tip of the proverbial iceberg) is humbly life changing.It took me a bit longer to finish this book than what I thought mainly because I underestimated how much I would love this book.
In this volume, Campbell sets out Jung’s basic understanding of archetypes, the collective unconscious, dream theory, perceptions of general personality types, definition of psychic objectivity, appeal to individuation, holistic approach to understanding personality (with its underpinnings in Eastern thought), definition of the symbolic, and explanation of synchronicity.
Even though I am an unapologetic Christian in terms of my faith, while Jung struggled against what he perceived as the unhealthy traditions of Christianity (and opened himself to Eastern and alchemical symbolism as a “corrective”) and Campbell functioned as the 20th century’s most noted syncretist, these writings continue to be insightful to me.
I felt Campbell assembled a fine selection of Carl Jung's works and by the time I reached the "Answer to Job" chapter at the end of the book I was able to read it at a smooth pace, without needing to stop and look anything up.I find Carl Jung to be a fascinating writer and feel that time spent studying his works will enhance one's understanding of many subjects outside of psychology.
Somewhere in the middle lies the process of individuation and it's gradual incorporation and acceptance into waking consciousness of the unpleasant, negative patterns without losing or dissolving the true personality.Reading Jung is a refreshing return to the earlier days of psychology when it was consulted as a means for the average person to better themselves spiritually, mentally, and emotionally.
for example (although I'm not sure I have my history right), I don't think Jung could possibly have understood how cultural learning might have explained away about 80% of his theory, but isn't it about time we admit that we can, and that we re-read him now through the lense of what we do and can know?
There is far too much of value here not to pick it all apart, and I'd like to think if Jung were here with us he'd agree.Ok, proceed with the crucifiction ...
this is a good place to begin reading carl jung...dealing with synchronicity, collective unconscious, archetypes, personality types (introverted, extroverted and all there shades), some case study examples from his work as an analyst... carl jung studied alchemy, mandalas, dreams, patients, and many other avenues in his research for the work upon which he has written...I learned that many symbolic types of knowledge can be integrated into ones personal work, art, music,etc... if one begins to understand what a symbol is and how they effect the conscious and unconscious minds...mike seely and the acid tong
Wow...I am enthralled.
I knew the major ideas of the psychoanalysts but never read any Freud, Jung, Lacan, etc.
I found myself describing Jung's theory of the collective unconscious to everyone I talked with.
I don't believe in his ideas with a total certainty, but he must be admired for his brilliant mind.
It is an almost transcedent beauty to see how humans are connected to one another.
The idea that the human mind is not situated in time reminds you that there is something immortal in all of us, and it almost seems a little holy.
Read this cover to cover and felt a much deeper understanding of everything i ever thought that i understood. This book caused a personal changing point in my life and way of thinking. Something big clicked for me when I finally came to understand the collective unconscious and the shadow self. Coming to terms with the reality of the shadow self is the KEY TO THE LOCK.
Understanding that my attempt to critique the profound work of Carl Jung will be undoubtedly futile, I will nevertheless attempt to summarize the work to a layman considering giving Jung a go.[NOTE: I skipped chapter 11 (Individual Dream Symbolism in Relation to Alchemy), 13 (The Difference Between Eastern and Western Thinking), and 15 (Answer to Job).]However, reader beware: Jung frequently makes references and allusions to mythological, religious, and spiritual ideas and concepts that are familiar with next to nobody in the contemporary West.
Most importantly, he is possibly the worst, most confusing writer I have ever read, and a great thinker that cannot organize his thoughts is likely to miss things.
Wins:Convincing argument that most of our mind is not accesible to our conciosness.
Just might be true.
Convincing argument that we share a collective unconcious.
However, I suspect he goes too far in the interpretation of mythology.
Convincing argument that humans need religion, and that only the living, morphing religions are healthy.
His dream interpretation is unverifiable and just a bit self indulgent.
His personality types are vauge and unrecognizable, and likely just not true.
"It all depends on how we look at things, and not how they are in themselves."The main reason that I picked up this book is that, since so many others on my shelves have referenced Jung, I may as well read it from the source.
I found the early parts of Part I interesting, where Jung forms his analytical psychology theory and defines the various terms and structure of the psyche, Aion included.
"It must be clearly understood that the mere fact of living the present does not make a man modern, for in that case everyone at present alive would be so.
He alone is modern who is fully conscious of the present."
A Difficult Read, At BestThere is much of Jung's work that I believe in and appreciate.
However, I don't believe this book is the best way to understand Jung.
It is concise and entirely comprehensible, without the struggle of reading this work.A further note on this Kindle edition.
There is no Table of Contents, giving the titles of the talks in this book, nor page numbers.
So there is no easy way to navigate out of a talk.
All in all, reading this edition is difficult, not to say "a chore".
I believe I finished this one in 2009. It was one of the first two books I read by Carl Jung. It was edited by Joseph Campbell, and I think he did an excellent job of choosing which of Jung's writings to include in order to provide a well-rounded look at Jung's work, so that someone new to Jung can in a sense put it all together and get an idea what they want to know more about for further reading. This and Memories, Dreams, Reflections were recommended to me as good choices for someone new to Jung.
This is my first exposure to the writings of Carl Jung. I found them influencing my thought process in many ways. I frequently try to analyze my dreams and interpret my thoughts and emotional reactions in terms of the collective uncounscious. So this is the source of the Myers-Briggs test! Unlik the broad generalizations of Myers-Briggs, Jung's writing on personality type is nuanced and insightful.
A terrific anthology of essential Jung, who's more generous than Freud, for my taste. The collective unconscious is the overriding idea of the man's work, but oddly enough I find the essay about the general description of types (extravert, introvert, thinking, feeling, etc.) to be the most interesting, if only because Jung so thoroughly and convincingly demonstrates the infinitely complex interaction between dominant characteristics and unconsciously compensating ones.
A wealth of psychological analysis from a unique and valuable perspective. Jung's psychology incorporates the more mysterious aspects of existence, shedding light on the unconscious and its affects on our day-to-day existence. I particularly enjoyed reading 'The Difference Between Eastern and Western Thinking', which I found especially illuminating.
Jung made some valuable contributions to psychology. The Collective Unconscious and the Mythic Archetypes being the most important. However reading more of Jung leads me to conclude that he also wrote a lot of non-sense. It is because he had a few good Ideas that I give this book 3 stars but not five because I had to do a lot of sifting through garbage to get any gems.
Simply the best of Jung. The clarity, depth and engagement in his works is amazing and feels fresh and intellectually challenging and modern. Recommended. If you need somewhere to start reading Jung this is the book!
I've read this book many times and am still blown away each time. There is so much we don't know about ourselves and the mysteries and messages of myths. Aptly edited by Joseph Campbell the myth miester.
One of my favorite books of all time. I carry a copy with me everywhere. In my office, at home, travelling, etc. A expert source for psychologists and people interested in the psyche.
I read this through more than once, and can still pick it up and read anywhere to find something I feel or think I have not seen before.
I read three essays out of the Portable Jung: Structure of the Psyche, the Relations between the Ego and Unconscious and the Spiritual Problem of Modern Man. I recommend all three because Jung is like licorice--you either love him or you hate him with few people taking an ambivalent position.
His notion of collective is a departure from Freud, where it seems that every man is an island, perhaps plumbing the depth of his own individual psyche but in a fundamental way cut off from others and unable to articulate or express his experiences to others.
So I guess it would make a good introduction for someone who wants to get into the Jungian psychology.At the end of the book, I am not left with a bunch of well organized facts but a feeling that I have more to myself than I actually think I do.
And with a severe puzzlement how in hell people know Freud better than this man!!!!My only problem with the book is that Jung keeps using Latin phrases and there are no footnotes to translate them except every now and then.
(2nd reading)“In all earnestness I asked myself what kind of world I had stumbled into.”In this short sentence is encompassed the excitement I have in Jung.
Of course Jung himself is aware of the danger.“Do we ever understand what we think?
For all his pioneering brilliance, Jung seems to fall victim to his own eagerness to be an intermediary between symbols - such as circles and squares, threes and fours, gods and men - and true meaning.
The first half of the book or so gives a nice overview of Jungian thought.
And I found most of the remaining essays interesting and thought-provoking...
Jung's decision to exclude all personal detail and focus on emerging mandala imagery in a long series of dreams from one individual made this a rather dry and academic exercise.'Answer to Job': Jung psychoanalyzes the God of the Bible (also the Apostle John a bit towards the end).
I found this material a bit challenging as God is variously characterized as evil, insane, repressing unconscious contents, etc.
