https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32255.Vanish
“Jane Doe” is rushed to the emergency room where we meet up with our other protagonist Detective Jane Rizzoli who has just gone into labour following a take down at the courthouse (she rocks) Through a fantastic series of events that kept me on the edge of my seat and never able to guess what was coming next, the formerly “dead” woman grabs a security guards gun and takes 6 people hostage in the hospital, one of which is Detective Rizzoli.
Throughout it all we keep coming back to Mila and her story is the one that haunts me.What a fantastic unputdownable read.
When she’s sent to the imaging area for a sonogram, bedlam breaks out in the hospital and a patient ends up holding her and those in the department hostage.
It was heartbreaking and horrible as we are told the story through Mila, a very young Russian girl who doesn’t hold back as she chronicles her journey.
We have yet another narrator but one who I thought was great and not just because she is the first to pronounce Jane’s last name correctly (it was a serious annoyance for me with the other books).
Vanish, the fifth book in Tess Gerritsen’s Rizzoli and Isles series, features events both expected and unexpected.
Little does she, or anyone else, expect a crisis to erupt.Maura Isles has a limited, but important role in the story.
However, the action focuses mainly on Jane and her husband, FBI agent Gabriel Dean, as they team up to gather evidence in the wake of the hostage emergency.
As Rizzoli, Dean, and Dr. Isles talk to police, FBI, and other intelligence agents, the story becomes quite muddied and complex before it can become clear.
Wieder ein großartiger Fall von Rizzoli&Isles! Tess Gerritsen schreibt einfach spannend, temporeich aber trotzdem mit genug „Zeit“ um die Charaktere toll rauszuarbeiten und weiter zu entwickeln... Ich freue mich auf 6 weitere Fälle und den 7. der dieses Jahr wohl erscheinen soll...
Tess Gerritsen Fans Group Link  A good story with 7 girls on a free "Mexican Tour". They don't know it's going to a whorehouse to "Vanish".Dr. Maura Isles finds a girl alive in the morgue & is rushed to the hospital. In the hospital, she kills a security guard, takes Det. Jane Rizzoli (9 months pregnant) & captures others. FBI Gabriel Dean (Rizzoli's husband) & Maura find 6 murders relate to the "Mexican Tour" whorehouse. The 7th girl in the morgue & Maura now kidnapped. But it
A good story with 7 girls on a free "Mexican Tour".
They don't know it's going to a whorehouse to "Vanish".Dr. Maura Isles finds a girl alive in the morgue & is rushed to the hospital.
FBI Gabriel Dean (Rizzoli's husband) & Maura find 6 murders relate to the "Mexican Tour" whorehouse.
The 7th girl in the morgue & Maura now kidnapped.
(view spoiler)[As expected, Jane, her newly born baby, Regina & the girl survive.
She is helped by someone not expected in the story.
Then Jane helps keep the girl alive & make their plan a success.
5/5 SERİNİN EN İYİ KİTABIYDI.Kitapta istediğim her şey vardı.Yazar tam istediğim gibi Rizzoli'nin üs
non-stop action from start to finish ... a perfect break from my research reading
My name is Mila and this is my journey.I came to this country with great expectations of making a new life for myself.
The thought of going overseas to start a new life left me with great joy.
At no time did the sense of unease stop even with lighter moments like with Jane and her daughter Regina as you knew that this was just a brief lull before the train starts up again.
This is top shelf reading from start to finish.I often wonder what my life would be like if i had stayed in my home town of Kryvicy in Belarus.
While Vanish wasn't my favorite in the Rizzoli and Isles series, it definitely didn't disappoint.Vanish doesn't so much start off with a bang, but rather a creepy and effective beginning.
An example of this is when I read the plot for the upcoming book (I believe it's the 8th in the series) and my heart hurt just a little at the thought of what's coming up for Maura.
Hopefully, it won't end the way I think it will and there will be another worthy plot twist that won't have me in tears.Anyway, not only did Vanish curb said reading slump, but it got me that much more excited for the upcoming Rizzoli & Isles series on TNT.
Jane heaved herself out of her chair, picked up the handcuffs, which had fallen to the floor, grabbed one of Rollo's raised fists and snapped on one of the cuffs.
Suddenly, Jane's waters broke, there in the middle of the courtroom, over the bailiff and the defendant!Dr Maura Isles had been working in the morgue all day, she was tired and desperately needed some fresh air.
With Jane in the hospital about to have her baby, and the 'corpse', Jane Doe also in the same hospital, their lives are about to intercept, with shocking results!
Who is Jane Doe, what does she want, where does she come from, why is she doing this...?
A parte il risveglio iniziale di una ragazza in un sacco-salma in obitorio (!) di cui avevo letto ne
This one was a little hard for me to swallow. The things done to the girls in this book, shook me to the core. Another fast paced read though. Kudos to Gerritsen for continuing her outstanding series.
Erg spannend en origineel verhaal!
Good, as always. I deducted a point from an otherwise 4 star book for problematic mommy wars issues and for referring to sex slaves as having an occupation. That just really bothered me.
Another good plot in the Rizzoli & Isles series. I'm really enjoying "binge" reading this series.
Whilst there wasn’t much of him (and if I’m honest, I didn’t enjoy his character as much as I did in the first book) it was great to know that he is actually back, and to see him interact with Rizzoli again.I would also like to say that those who have watched the television series are in for quite a shock when reading the books.
I was part way through the fourth book (Body Double) when I decided to start with the television series and there were many moments which left me shocked with the changes that were made.
(Unlike the fantasy genre in which all the books in a series need to be read in order.) When I'm browsing in the genre, I sometimes get confused as to who the writer is and who the detective is.
I read the blurbs on some of Gerritsen's other books when I was in the bookstore and the premises sound interesting.
I will probably read The Mephisto Club A Novel because it sounds like a particularly interesting story and I really liked the excerpt that was printed at the end of this one.
I have read several of her books but out of order and that never made it difficult with connecting to the story.
This was the start of a very long bad day for Maura, she rushes the woman in for medical treatment.
She is thrust into a hostage situation and fears for her unborn baby's life and her own.All three of these women were trapped in a horrible situation.
Previously, I had visited San Francisco and read a long report about it and the details like the bars on the windows were the same.
En ik heb het boek alweer uit. Het las echt vlot. Even dacht ik dat het verhaal een kant op ging dat mij niet aansprak. Gelukkig was dat niet het geval. Daarom heb ik het uiteindelijk vier sterren gegeven. Al zit het meer op 3,5 ster. Het einde vond ik wel weer vrij plotseling komen. Dat is echt iets van deze schrijfster. Toch voelde het dit keer niet heel onbevredigend. Dat had ik bij de eerste boeken wel. Op naar deel 6.
I enjoyed this installment in the Rizolli & Isles series a lot more than I did the 4th book. Probably because this time around, Jane Rizolli featured in it more than Maura Isles did. It was a quick and exciting read for me but I'm going to take a little break from this series for a while before I pick up the 6th book.
Audible Audiobook reviewMaura Isles and Jane Rizzoli meet up again in a case that has national and international implications. When a body in the morgue is found to actually be alive, Maura and Jane both unwittingly insert themselves in a manhunt that endangers both of their lives.A twisty story with a few left-field surprises. I love the different perspectives that envelope us into the story immediately. And, as usual, Maura's detailed attention and Jane's confident assertiveness are constants that make these characters genuine and familiar.
Dobra "stara" Tess!
Hoewel de inhoud over een gruwelijke verwikkeling gaat, waar je eigenlijk liever niet over leest.Dr. Isles krijgt de schrik van haar leven wanneer in de koelcel een lijkenzak beweegt en een lijk haar ogen opent.
De vrouw wordt naar het ziekenhuis gebracht en een bijzonder verhaal voor de pers is ontstaan en wordt dan ook op voet gevolgd.
De gijzelneming waarin Rizzoli een van de gegijzelde personen is, omdat ze op dat moment in het ziekenhuis is voor haar bevalling, wordt nauwgezet verslaggegeven door de aanwezige pers en live gevolgd door het hele land.
Ook het einde is niet afgeraffeld en wordt veel beter afgesloten dan de andere delen.
Two-haiku review:Jane at hospitalTaken hostage by bad guysAre they really bad?Complex and thrillingSad thing, human traffickingSeries gets deeper
Really enjoyed it. Thriller for sure.
I liked this book, but not as much as the other Rizzoli and Isles I read.
The story fell a little flat to me and it felt like it took until the middle of the book to really get started, and then it was done.
What I did like was this book was more about Jane and her husband, with a little Maura sprinkled in.
Maura was good in her appearances, but she stills is a little frisky flirty whenever a handsome man looks her way.
It's a good read, and worth learning more about Jane.
Kas neskaitėt ir nežinot, Rizoli ir Ails yra policininkė detektyvė bei medikė.
Nors šiai šiaip ne taip pavyksta pasprukti, nusikaltėlė užsibarikaduoja ligoninėjė ir savo valioje turi dar keletą įkaitų.
Be šios, kurią ką tik aprašiau seka dar viena - mergaitės Milos istorija.
Tačiau kaip ir kodėl jos susijungs išaiškėja tik knygos pabaigoje.
Kas skaitot Tess ir iš esmės mėgstat jos stilių, paskaitykit ir šią knygą, galbūt nebus pati geriausia, bet savo cinkelį turi.
Jie norit tik pradėti pažintį su šia autore, pasirinkit kurią kitą jos knygą, o šią pasilikit tos draugystės stiprinimui.
Das ursprüngliche Zuhause dieser Rezension ist der WortWelten-Blog: http://wort-welten.blogspot.de/Kurzbeschreibung:Das hätte sich Dr. Maura Isles niemals träumen lassen - eine lebendige Frau in einem ihrer Leichensäcke im gerichtsmedizinischen Institut!
Doch genau damit sieht sich Maura eines Tages konfrontiert.
Zwar kann sie die Frau retten und lässt sie ins Krankenhaus bringen, doch all das ist erst der Anfang der unheilvollen Ereignisse.
Einzig der Umstand, dass besagte Spannung eben nicht dauerhaft zugegen war, ist ein kleiner Minuspunkt für mich.
So waren manche Stellen doch ein wenig langatmig und bisweilen wurden kleine Sachverhalte einfach benannt und dann nie wieder erwähnt.
repara que no interior das duas primeiras estão dois cadáveres (como seria de supor), mas a terceira...
está viva!!Assim começa este quinto livro da série Rizzoli & Isles.A desconhecida é levada para o hospital, mas em pânico faz vários reféns, dentre os quais se encontra a inspectora Jane Rizzoli que vai dar à luz a sua primeira filha.Gabriel Dean, o marido de Jane desespera, entretanto, ao ver as horas passarem, sem que se consiga negociar com a sequestradora.
Mas quando o grupo de resgate está perto de libertar os reféns, a mulher sussurra a Jane: "A Mila sabe".Mas do que saberá Mila??
Tess Gerritsen'in Siliniş romanı diğer romanlarından iki farklı açıdan ayrılıyor. İlki; Siliniş, Gerritsen'in diğer kitaplarına nazaran daha toplumsal bir konuya değiniyor. Her ne kadar gizli olsa da bence toplumsal. İnsan ticareti, kadın kaçakçılığı... Diğeri ise; Tess'in okuduğum en kötü kitabı olması. Gerilimden eser yok ve aile dramıyla boğulmuş bir kitap. Kısa sürede okuyacağım diye düşünürken beklediğimden çok daha fazla vaktimi aldı. 40 yaşındaki ergen Maura'nın kitapta fazla yer almaması bile pek kurtaramadı kitabı. Yine de sevdim. Tess yani.
