https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228.Cockfighter
The cult of macho is a male reaction to rejection and judgment, as Willeford presents it; this being what I've observed, it had me nodding along as I read the book.Where the film falls down, I think, is in the nature of the storytelling medium.
On its surface, this film's about how a man decides not to live with a woman but to sell every-damn-thing he owns and double down on the world of cockfighting.
(Go here to read a really, really interesting academic take on Willeford as writer and man manqué.) The levels and ideas that this brutal, cruel, emotionally stopped body of work contains are rewarding to unpick and enjoyable to contemplate.For Y chromosome bearers.
Now, with only a few bucks in his pocket and the clothes on his back, we witness him doggedly work his way to the top, in his pursuit of the Cockfighter of the Year Award.Frank isn't the best of guys and is, for all intents and purposes, an asshole.
You get the feeling that Willeford definitely has some first-hand knowledge!The story itself is actually pretty traditional and I could even see some of the cock-training marathons in my head as I read and also hear the Rocky movie montage music playing in the background!
What are the odds that the fallen-from-grace QB can redeem himself by defeating the prodigious genital proboscis of Santonio Holmes or Greg Oden, just two of the trou-dropping athletes in recent months to go full wang-dang-doodle?But perhaps most impressive are the strange rituals by which men gild their otherwise tumescent lilies to gain a competitive edge.
Who knew that Favre takes a razor-blade to his Sandspur to carve grooves into it to give the appearance it’s more battle-scarred than it really is, thus raising the odds against him?
In the end, that’s what we love: a beautiful loser who knows he’s no hero.


Or Troy Louden in SIDESWIPE - "Smoking comforts ordinary men, but I'm not an ordinary man.
He was never quite the same man again, not to me, and not to himself." Frank Mansfield is the main character in COCKFIGHTER.
But he is almost like a villain, tough as an axe, contemptuous of women, intensely judgmental of his fellow men - basically a man who would not take a backward step to anyone or anything.
Money is an obsession for nearly all the characters in Willeford novels and the ones in COCKFIGHTER are no different.
There are also those people who state matter-of-factly that "money isn't everything".
I never would have read a book with that much shop talk about anything, though admittedly I loved Gun Work by David J.
But I was kinda looking for a crime novel, and when I got to the end and nobody'd gotten their head blown off, I was a bit disappointed.To be fair, I love Willeford's The Burnt Orange Heresy and that has a murder that seems to be there for no reason other than to make it a crime novel (presumably so he could sell it) and it feels fairly random, with a disappointing ending.
On its own terms, Cockfighter is a stronger novel than Heresy.
There's just kind of a lot of cockfighting in it.
This sounds very Michael Vick-ish but, this book seems like a "how-to" ghost written by someone I knew. For reasons I cannot disclose here, I will not comment further for fear of being ironically tarred and feathered, and pelted by chicken feed. Thanks for the recommend Mike (view spoiler)[you silly cock sucker! 8P (hide spoiler)]!
It offers a wonderful sense of being transported to an entirely different place, seeing the world through the eyes of others and then ensuring that I’m so captivated by a series of events that all I want to do in life at a given moment (well, most given moments) is return to the next page.The quote at the beginning of the book is from Ezra Pound – “What matters is not the idea a man holds, but the depth at which he holds it.” There’s plenty of depth in evidence here as protagonist Frank takes the reader into the life of a serious cockfighter.Frank is such a passionate man that he’s vowed, unbeknownst to anyone else, to remain silent until he gains the coveted mark of respect that is the silver medal that marks someone out as the cock handler of the year (sniggers really don’t fit on this occasion!).
My all time favorite literary pattern is the hero's journey (up top, Joseph C) and Cockfighter is more-or-less Willeford's spin on The Odyssey.
There's a man with a goal who sets out on a quest, and unlike Hoke--who gets sidetracked often--Frank Mansfield sticks with his boon of becoming Cockfighter of the Year.
But it's still pretty awesome.It took me a little longer to get into this book--I think mostly I had to warm up to Frank (hard to replace Hoke in my heart)--but once I got about 100 pages in, I couldn't put it down.
I started reading "Maldoror," originally, by the Comte de Lautreaumont, and threw it aside because fifty pages in, I'm pretty sure it's schlock crap.
I can't describe this book very well, except to say it had the same effect on me reading "The Gambler" by Dostoevsky did - that is to say, up late at night, racing to the end, desperate to see what happens next.
Frank Mansfield will not say another word until he is the greatest cockfighter in the South, and is recognized as such, and he will sacrifice everything to make it happen.
What a great, engrossing book.
Peleas de gallos, honor de galleros y un protagonista muy particular para un libro difícil e imprescindiblehttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
Fast, sure, with Ocala dirt under its cracked, yellowed fingernails ... whatever you think of the milieu, it feels "lived-in," with vivid, genuine, expertly drawn characters.
mary elizabeth does not have a clue, she has chosen to not have a clue and she has elected and voiced that opinion about frank mansfield, her fiancee, there at the end and if that does not echo our world, my world, then nothing does.
a dedicationfor mary joa quote on a white page:what matters is not the idea a man holds, but the depth at which he holds it.--ezra poundtime place scene setting*belle glade, florida, a trailer rented by the eye-narrator, scene opener, captain mack's trailer camp*frank's mobile love-lee-mobile home*his old caddy*various cock-fighting pits around the south, furthest north in tennessee, furthest west...in louisiana maybe...or alabama/mississippi.
Nobody writes like Mr. Willeford.
It is a subculture I knew very little about, but thanks to this novel, I now know a lot about after following the exploits of the protagonist Frank Mansfield.
In fact, it could be said to be the "Moby Dick" of cockfighting novels in that there are several sections that discuss the intricacies of the cockfighting trade as well as the conditioning of the birds.
I was able to inhabit the southern cockfighting tour and share the triumphs and setbacks of the eccentric protagonist Frank Mansfield whose one and only goal in life is to be the cockfighter of the year.
It seems to promise a Nathanial West like ride and I am looking forward to it.****Well it wasn't Nathanial West and not quite Jim Thompson.
The protagonist, Frank Mansfield, is the sort of male lead that we can expect from this sort of book.
Mansfield is good at fighting chickens, playing music and not much else.
I kept hoping that there would be some sort of caper but it never developed.If you like Thompson-esque reads this would work for you but don't count on it going much beyond the sport of cockfighting.
Silent Frank Mansfield is a really bad guy who is sure he's a good guy for most of the book, but maybe figures out in the end and accepts, what he really is -- which as stated, is a really bad guy.
Willeford doesn't pull any punches so you'd better not have a soft spot for roosters (or women) if you pick up this book.
That's a pretty good description.
Weirdly entertaining and disturbing and I'm not sure that I'm glad I spent the time with it, but credit has to be given for the consistent writing and originality.
I skipped this years ago when I was reading Willeford, assuming it was just going to be some brutal "and here's the shitty world of cockfighting" kinda book. Which it is, but only incidentally, really; it's much more like Charles Portis-- a breezy and fun southern adventure, populated with quirky characters, and told with wit and an eye to the sparkling sentence. It's a book to chuckle through-- though I wouldn't want to watch the movie. Anyway, I'm back on the Willeford again.
WORLD'S WORST SPORTS NOVEL!It's about a guy who wants something badly and can only imagine getting it if he does things his own way, all the way. What he does is give up speaking until he wins the Colonel Sanders chicken boxing award. Given that premise, it should have been a better read.The specific facts of cockfighting are spread thin. The female characters are either housebound or attached to a man at the hipThe sentence structure is annoyingly basic. I liked this author's Hoke novels, but I'd skip this one.
A master craftsman, who teaches writing as he entertains.
Reading Cockfighter is a fairly singular experience .
The milieu is very much Harry Crews' land of Southern yokels in the 60s or thereabouts, the subject cockfighting.
Crews wrote about similar subjects himself in a similar vein (falconry, for example).
The original publication of this book, 1962, probably just about predates Crews anyway.
Everyone seems to know about this, so there's still a lot of talking in his direction during the story.
Unfortunately, Frank is a dick, one of the least likeable characters in the books I've read recently.
And there's a hell of a lot of technical detail about cockfighting.
I can't say I enjoyed this book, but it was well done. Also, it's not noir, as the jacket would suggest (and I read it because I wanted to read a noir). It is, however, a moving portrait of someone so focused on "success" that he ignores everything that makes him human. Also, of course, it provides a detailed look at the southern world of cock fighting, which is just a bleak and violent as you'd expect.
Life is a violent mechanism, navigated by ritual, devotion, endurance. The less you say, the better. Just dig in and know your business. That is the ultimate story told in COCKFIGHTER, where the men in the southern cockfighting scene could be replaced by lawyers in a courtroom or commanders of space cruisers. Each man titrates his humanity for the mechanism hoping to limp out of the pit alive.
An original story and a stand up main character. You will also learn everything you have to know about cock fighting.
Well-written, gripping, and adapted into a superb Monte Hellman film in '74. Simpler than you might think.
I never thought I'd read a book about any bloodsport, but don't be under any illusion, there is a LOT of cockfighting in Cockfighter.
You have been warned!The protagonist is, like many Charles Willeford leads, not a hugely sympathetic character.
Driven by ambition, selfish, self-reliant and with a self-imposed code of morality, he's a hard man who's hard to like, but occasionally, easy to admire.
I'll let my score of four stars stand, although I feel like a hypocrite for not giving it five, but I felt I had to dock it something for the subject matter.
While Frank appears to have very little love or compassion for his birds, he does respect and at times almost admires them, believing that cockfighting is “the only sport that can’t be fixed”, and "it's a crime not to arm a cock with spurs that will allow him to fight his best."Sworn to a self-imposed vow of silence until he achieves his goal, Frank sees himself as a man of character and honor, but he’s not without his shortcomings, most evident in his personal relationships.
Early in the book, Frank attempts a brief career as a musician while trying to scrape together enough money to buy Ed’s ace cock, which he’s reluctantly agreed to sell.
Willeford’s Frank Mansfield takes a vow of silence until he wins the Cockfighter of the Year award. “Cockfighter” takes you into the often brutal codified world of southern cockfighting with a cast of stubborn southern gentlemen, tough cockfighters, ladies, gamblers, cheaters and thieves. Willeford’s book is a veritable instructional manual for the sport set inside a compelling story full of history and interesting details and heroism - sometimes stupid heroism. It’s obvious that Willeford spent a considerable amount of time touring the cockpits of Florida and Georgia to get such a detailed account.
"As far back as 320 B.C. an old poet named Chanakya wrote that a man can learn four things from a cock: To fight, to get up early, to eat with his family, and to protect his spouse when she gets into trouble.
I had learned how to fight and how to get up early, but I had never gotten along too well with my family and I didn't have any spouse to protect.
If he does like it, he accepts, sooner or later, everything about the sport - the good with the bad."As the fan gradually learns to tell one game strain from another, he admires the vain beauty of a game rooster.
