https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/908296.The_Sword_of_Rhiannon
I was struck--as always--by how elegantly and efficiently the first half is constructed, how it delivers all the necessary information of a complex back story--not to mention a wealth of memorable incidents and images--and leaves us almost a full hour for an equally rich development of the main conflict: Cole and J.P.'s stand-off with Bart Jason and his men.This time, though, my experience was slightly different.
She gained the title of "Queen of the Space Opera" for her contributions that started with the popular pulp magazines of the 1940's (Planet Stories, Astounding, Thrilling Wonder Stories) and ended with the recognition of all fans of the Star Wars francise, when George Lucas picked Brackett to write the script for what is in my opinion the best episode of the series so far - "The Empire Strikes Back".Reading "The Sea-Kings of Mars" (the original title for "The Sword of Rhiannon") it is clear to me where the Jedi Knights and the Dark Sith originated, where sword & sorcery met with science-fiction to fire up the imagination of countless youngsters dreaming of saving the galaxy from evil empires and of conquering the hearts of warrior princesses from exotic planets.Case in point : Matt Carse is a rogue archeologist of the future, a self-reliant and amoral opportunist (Han Solo?) who stumbles on some ancient artefacts from a long gone civilization.
Executive Summary: I don't really like much classic sci-fi, and unfortunately this was no different. Full Review This book wasn't on my radar. I only read it because it was May pick for Sword & Laser. I wish I had been able to get it from library, but at least there was a cheap ebook available.This felt more like a pirate fantasy book than sci-fi. There are a few sci-fi elements, such as a laser gun and time travel, but the setting of Mars may as well be Middle Earth or Narnia.The characters
Executive Summary: I don't really like much classic sci-fi, and unfortunately this was no different.
I wish I had been able to get it from library, but at least there was a cheap ebook available.This felt more like a pirate fantasy book than sci-fi.
There are a few sci-fi elements, such as a laser gun and time travel, but the setting of Mars may as well be Middle Earth or Narnia.The characters were thin, the sexism is thick, and the plot is light.
There were a few times I thought I was getting into the book, but it just never really clicked for me.I can't say I'm really surprised.
Lean lithe men and women passed him in the shadowy streets, silent as cats except for the chime and whisper of the tiny bells the women wear, a sound as delicate as rain, distillate of all the sweet wickedness of the world.This is the Solar System as it should be -- Mars a vast, wind-swept desert littered with the remains of cities a million years dead, the current population eking out a predatory existence in the canal-side towns.
complications that result in him finding himself a million years in Mars' past, when the sea-bottoms were not yet empty.
Leigh Brackett's sword & planet adventure The Sword of Rhiannon is a short novel but a favorite among aficionado's.
Actually, the technology that enables some interesting time/space travel is rooted in a Lovecraftian Mythos magic associated with an elder race (Quiro).Our protagonist is Carse, an archaeologist/criminal who is very "Indiana Jones" like (of course this was created long before Indy Jones hit theaters).
The titular Sword of Rhiannon is revealed from the start to Carse; it had been hidden for centuries in a tomb, so it was rumored, and he quickly finds the tomb from which it came as sought treasure to loot.
Brackett did write more Sword and Planet, but not with Carse.
I had not heard of this author or this book in either form (it is also known as The Sea-Kings of Mars.)It is important to look at the era a book was written.
It isn't surprising, then that the main character (Carse) and all the other humans on Mars don't mention struggling to breath or survive.
You just have to suspend a lot of disbelief.Is this the first book with time-lords?
It's like Indiana Jones on Mars meets time travel meets pirates.
I didn't care for the main character who is a bully and a thief but still enjoyed the book overall.
Everything about it respects the readers enough to let them fill in the gaps.But in its second half I think the compactness works against it.
The scope of the story has opened from Brackett's decayed Mars of decadent, inward-looking cities and dry sea beds and economic domination from younger Earth, to a living Mars of squabbling city-states and maritime adventure.
But there's no room to revel in this setting and allow Matthew Carse and his merry band to adventure a bit before the next plot point lines up.
Information is unnecessarily repeated to the reader (the Quiru, Rhiannon, the Dhuvians and Sarks), and Brackett takes a simple approach to the Ywain-as-love-interest problem.
Leigh Brackett had a great career as a writer for various magazines in the 1930s & 40s, as a screenwriter in the 1940s & 50s and finished up with credit on the Star War's Empire Strikes Back screenplay.
While her role in the screenplay has been downplayed through the years, it is interesting to note that the strongest movie of the series is the one she had influence on.
As for this story, it first appeared in the magazine Trilling Stories in three installments.
If you are interested in the early works of the genre, this will add to your knowledge of that era.
Meh. Not my thing. But not really surprising, given that one thing that Leigh Brackett is known for I've never heard of and the other thing she seems to be really known for (one of the Star Wars movies) really isn't my thing. Pulpy sci-fi, much like an Arnie movie, not particularly deep and not really my jam. I guess it was alright...at least it was short.The audiobook was terrible. The ebook from Baen had a lot of typos.
I would have liked this a lot more as a teen. It's similar to ERB's Barsoom in some ways, although the character is more complex. The story is a fast adventure that is based on SF, but reads like a fantasy. Fun, but not really my thing any more.
It isn't the last tale of it's kind, that honour probably goes to A Rose for Ecclesiastes by Roger Zelazny (which I think is actually the better story).
Even so, most authors probably already realised that the ancient canals and doomed civilisations of Mars were nothing more than a fantasy, the product of over-active imaginations and flaws in Percival Lovell's eyes.
Yet for all that this is a well written and well realised fantasy story, where men were real men, women were real woman and small furry creatures from Alpha Centauri were real small furry creatures from Alpha Centauri.
Leigh Brackett caught my eye as the screenwriter adapting Chandler of course) fro Robert Altman's excellent version of The Long Goodbye.
Though it's always hard to really see the screenplay through Altman's direction, all his movies seem like his movies first, regardless of source.
Turns out its that oh-so-antiquated sci-fi genre that's really basically fantasy in space.
Economically written, reasonably intriguing (and fantasy pre-tolkein, so no orcs in sight) but still really of a middling pulp variety.
(But come to think of it she ruined one of the more interesting female character twists in her other screen-Chandler adaptation, of The Big Sleep, working with Faulkner).
This is my first Brackett, and I enjoyed it immensely.
Even though some cliches of early SciFi and pulp novels remain (a modern man travels to a strange world, modern scientific explainations given to magic, vague strong and silent heroes, maidens in distress), those cliches exist to fill a section the writer would rather not develop so that a rich world may instead grow.
It also fits with the author's habit of leaving certain details in shadow so that they can be tended to and developed in the reader's mind.The story is incredibly well-paced, the setting is immersive and interesting, and the writing is solidly done.
Whenever I can devour a book in a day, I know I've found something good!
I understand this book was written as an homage to the Burroughs "Carson of Venus" and "John Carter of Mars" books, and like them it is very light, but enjoyable adventure yarn, full of cliffhangers, occasional swashbuckling, and card-board thin characters (especially the protagonist). I think that for Burroughs, the undefined protagonists are meant to allow almost any reader to identify with them. Maybe Brackett intends the same thing. Either way, it is fun, with a lot of plot twists and action, very concisely written and never boring.
A classic work of science fiction.The Earthman Carse, walking through the night of a seedy Martian town, is followed.
Which leads in turn to an offer of the title sword.
Which, he knows, means the one making the offer knows where the legendary tomb is, and goes to loot it, forcing the would-be seller to come.
It holds a black bubble-like sphere, of the ancient science of Mars, and Carse is too careless, and plunged into the depths of history.It involves the ancient seas of Mars, the difficulty in piloting them, winged beings, a haughty princess and galley slaves, a war, and more.
This one looks like it was published in a single edition as a novella, but the hallmark style is still there.Very reminiscent of the Burroughs Barsoom books overall.
Of course, the 'science' of Mars is very different to what we know today, but consistent with the period when it was written.
Read it and take into account the period in which it was written and you will probably enjoy it.
Sea-Kings of Mars was the original title as published in a magazine, but it was also later published as a separate novella under the title 'The Sword of Rhiannon'.
Many, many, many years ago I read an old Ace Double that belonged to my father that contained Brackett's The Sword of Rhiannon bound with Howard's Conan the Conqueror.
I read quite a few more of Brackett's works over the years and enjoyed them immensely and came to believe that maybe I hadn't given it a fair shake because it was overshadowed by the grim Cimmerian superman in my young mind, and fifty years later I've given it another try.
it's not a bad book (especially for one written before Stevie Nicks was born, speaking of Rhiannon) though I can't call it a classic.
Picked for the book of the month from Sword&Laser bookclub. There’s not really much to say about this book. It was a quick read, fast-paced and overall fun. It’s old-school Sci-fi, With a man with a destiny bigger than him, a damsel somewhat in distress/that wants to be saved (even if she doesn’t know that) and a villain(?) that everyone is happy to hate and fear.Like it was stated in the podcast for the bookclub, it is a great book to read on an afternoon at the beach.
Another enjoyable planetary romance, much better written than most. Much like "The Secret of Sinharat" and "The People of the Talisman," the story evokes ancient mystery beneath ancient mystery, and by the end, it delivers the answers. In this case, an archaeologist/tomb-robber on Mars actually time travels to ancient Mars to resolve even more ancient questions. But again, there's a problem with the thinness or emotional distance of the characters.
I really liked this one. Adventures on a decaying Mars. Very different than Burroughs, but just as good in it's own way.
Brackett is best! I bow before this perfect jewel of a planetary romance. Amazing. Wow.
To illustrate, a descriptive passage from "The Sword of Rhiannon".Carse walked beside the still black waters in their ancient channel, cut in the dead sea-bottom.
Torchlight licked luridly from broken windows and wide-thrown doors, and out of those doors, stale smells of wine and rank sweaty bodies, clamor of drinking-jacks and fists hammered on rough tables, snatches of obscene songs, rushed like a blow in the face.An action passage in "The Sword of Rhiannon" detailing a psychic duel:Emer raised the cloudy jewel in her hands.
Howard detailing a psychic duel:Wizard and chief faced each other.
The Sword of Rhiannon is the story of Matt Carse, a human on Mars.
Although this book is labeled as sci-fi, it more closely fits fantasy.
There is a pirate-like vibe throughout.In the foreward of my book, it is stated that Brackett was influenced by the John Carter series, which is very plain while reading.
However, whereas Princess of Mars was published in 1912, The Sword of Rhiannon was published in 1949.
Was there stagnation in the genre for awhile?If you like pulp, then this book will do the job.
It was entertaining, but in the end I didn't feel particularly impressed.
I read this as a book club pick, and was looking forward to it as it sounded very similar to Edgar Rice Burroughs' John Carter of Mars books from 20 years or more earlier, which I've always loved.
The plot (what there was) was predictable, the characters were non-existent, the 'hero' of the story was probably even shallower than the secondary characters.
In short it was a standard heroic action-adventure, but without a hero, very little action, and no real adventure what-so-ever.
Only thing this had going for it was that it was a very short read.
(She was approached to write the screenplay for the Empire Strikes Back for a reason, and all she did was write the best Star Wars movie IMO.) Reading The Sword of Rhiannon brought me back to my adolescence when I devoured novels by Michael Moorcock and Robert E.
The conceit of The Sword of Rhiannon is pretty fascinating, an earthborn tomb raider is zapped into Mars' past carrying a terrifying secret.
After reading The Sword of Rhiannon I read this lengthy interview with Bracket and her husband and found it pretty fascinating.
I've been wanting to read some Leigh Brackett, so I gave it a shot, once I could track down a not-so-easy to find copy.When Matt Carse, Earthman, archaeologist, and adventurer, has a chance to buy a rare sword from the distant past of Mars, he gets more than he bargains for.
He finds himself enslaved aboard a galley on one of the seas of Mars.
He also finds himself trying to find his place among the strange tribes of Mars.
Add to that, the pesky side effects of his sword, and he's in for a real adventure.It reads like classic swashbuckling pulp sf.
This is a fairly short read from the pulp sci-fi era.
The story moves at a swift pace and is fairly fantastical.It has not aged well, in the case of the story setting.
It makes me think if there were more stories of Carse set in the starting time period and the author needed to get him to a different setting fairly quickly.Some scenes are a little short as well - and no real explanation of how some characters got to their decisions.However, this is a good and enjoyable story and a totally refreshing change from the books i have been reading recently.
There's something about Mars. Edgar Rice Burroughs was the first explorer to really map out the fictional canals & cities in detail, but he was hardly the last. Leigh Brackett's Red Planet deserves your attention. --MK
The theory went that an ancient intelligent civilisation had created sets of irrigation canals across the surface of Mars, the remains of which showed up as a criss-cross of straight features on the martian surface (they later turned out to be mere optical illusions from the limited early telescopes).
Details on everything beyond the shores of this unnamed sea were more than a little lacking too so it often seemed like one sea took up the whole of Mars but for such a short book then I think that can be forgiven.The short length does cause a few other issues that I found harder to forgive however.
It being pure adventure clear of any real science fiction attributes is pretty plain and not actually thrilling one.
Either this adventure must be really great as it was in Barsoom or it should have interesting and sophisticated setting.
Some parts of book gave me the feeling of lightness and flowing interest and some gave just shrugs of how typical elements of it were.Writing style of Leigh Brackett is pretty fine, but it seems to me that this approach suits fantasy more than sci-fi.
Science fiction with swords and castles and kings is pretty doubtful thing by itself.
