https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411859.The_World_Is_Full_of_Married_Men
Kakav veličanstveni palp!
Bez svake sumnje, romani Džeki Kolins su upravo onakvi kako ih je opisala Barbara Kartland - "nasty, filthy and disgusting".
Ali, u tome je i poenta.
Ljubavne romane ne čitam, osim ako se ne radi o klasicima sestara Bronte ili Džejn Ostin, ali Džeki baš ume da "pogodi žicu".
"Svet je pun oženjenih muškaraca" je njen prvenac iz 1968.
Znam da ljudi obično Kolinsovu nazivaju treš piscem, ali se ne bih saglasio sa tom procenom.
Prema tome: ako volite vrhunski herc palp, Džeki je žena za vas.
THE WORLD IS FULL OF MARRIED MEN is an overwhelming introduction of the ferocious media business - the imposter guarantees and the genuine energy of the throwing love seat. David Cooper undermines his better half. She doesn't cheat - and that suits him fine. Until the youthful and excellent Claudia shows up and David needs out of his marriage. In any case, Claudia has distinctive thoughts - diverse dreams: To be a model, an on-screen character, a star. Furthermore, she'll successfully make it. Simply name a cost... And the story goes on and on and on ...
The world is full of married men is the first she had ever written and I was interested to see just how much her writing had developed since her first novel.For me this book was too short, the finale is not as explosive as the other novels I have read from Jackie Collins and so became a bit of a disappointment.
I can see that this was a beginning to how she would build her novels up into these captivating, explosive and sordid stories about the rich and famous and indeed whilst reading this one I felt like she was only just getting started.
Oh my gooooood! This book was the most amazing piece of trash I have read in a long time. Not since Valley of the Dolls has a book made me feel so scummy and awesome. I highly recommend.
So I was happy when the fabulous JC fan, Voracious, suggested a buddy read :) She’s one of my all time favourite authors, in fact.
“The World is Full of Married Men” is typical Jackie Collins, full of rich, vain, shallow but fabulous characters full of witty lines and spontaneous activities.
The typical egomaniac cheating asshat of a character in a JC novel, but I didn’t hate him because oh gosh his last part in the book made me laugh a big “HA!” Serves him right, he sacrificed his cozy marriage to Linda only to put himself in a stickier and potentially problematic situation.
This book frustrated me. Not only the story was over the top, the characters were obnoxious, described as humans with extreme natures. Claudia being an extreme bitch, David being an extreme asshole, and Linda being an extremely fragile woman. Even so, reading this was like having a guilty pleasure. I enjoy every second of it. This is the 1st book Jackie wrote. It kinda shows by the way she wrote the conversations. I guess she got better in time. This book is recommended for readers who wants a piece of an easy reading.
The novel that made Jackie Collins famous and introduce her style. Good 'ol yarn about the famous cheating that hangs together well. There is even a moral at the end. These stories are OK as long as you only read one now and then for light entertainment.
What can I say? Loved this kind of trash (sorry) novel back in the day.
The late, Jackie Collins is easily overlooked as a literary contributor.
The fabulous wealth and decadence of the characters who find their way into her blockbusters may seem an unlikely setting for a noteworthy legacy.
The Bitch, The World is Full of Married Men, Hollywood Wives and Lady Boss all find their drama in the neurosis of the rich and the conflict for women at this sharpest end of competitive society.
The seduction of luxury and power alone are given an erotic charge.
Her heroines, nonetheless, have desires that she has devoted her life to crafting into erotic writing which ultimately captures a sexual encounter on a woman's terms.
Collins is one of the few.
I picked it up as Jackie Collins had recently died and this was one I'd not read back in my youth. It's wholly trashy but that's why women loved her books. A bit of escapism which is why I love to read. Sometimes trashy is just the ticket
If you want to read a good love story full with intrigues, then this is what you're searching for. This book shows the weaknesses of people who don't appreciate what they have until they start to realize their mistakes in personal life. Those mistakes will push you in the deeper hole without exit.
Quick easy read, classic Jackie Collins. A guilty pleasure book.
I remember reading this, maybe five years ago...yep thats right, thats the impression it left on me! :D
I started and finished this book the same day!
Fun book. More on it at : http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2013...
I picked this one in particular because it was banned in my home country of Australia in 1968.Jackie Collins' debut novel was banned in Australia because it was too racy and overtly sexual.
There was, however, a sinister quality about a lot of the sexual content in the novel--and considering the scandals that are coming out of Hollywood right now, the book left me a little unsettled.The story revolves around three major characters: David Cooper, a man working in advertising; his wife, Linda; and his mistress, Claudia Parker.
Banned in Australia (must have been a backward country in 1960s?) and elsewhere, and nothing is so spectacularly trashy as to deserve criticism or accolade.David, the married man, was the only one who's punished, which design is more bizarre than ingenious, less morally encouraging than cathartically vengeful.Her light weight (or heavy blast by consensus) debut didn't remove her from my favorite author list. I still admire her dominance on Romance genre, her courage to trash the rich, the famous, the powerful and the decadent.
Mnogo sam se mučila s ovom knjigom, nije mi se uopšte dopala. Privukao me naslov, međutim jako sam se razočarala. Jedino što mi se dopalo jeste dizajn naslovnice. Ubuduće ću zaobilaziti ovu spisateljicu u širokom luku.
Jackie sure did improve over the years, it all started here, while this is not my favorite book! Had I read this back in 1968, I would have looked forward to her next, even with this book you could tell she had the potential to become fabulous!
Ahahahahha ))) the ending was really funny )))I'm usually not fond of this kind of books, but this is the second book of Jackie Collins that i am reading and really enjoying the writing light style full of characters personality and description.
I love Jackie Collins!!!!!One of my all time favorite story tellers, I love all of her characters and the lives they lead. It's always a joy to read here stories and escape for a few hours.
Liked the ending.
this trash. and its so good. also, why were all the women in the 60's obssesed with mink coats?
I love this authors stories. Lots of twists and turns.
This reminds me of a Fay Weldon novel... Without the biting satrire
Classic Collins. There’s a reason she’s one of the best selling novelists. Quick, easy and a peek inside Hollywood, just what was needed.
Enjoyed this book. Nice bit of escapism about how the other half live, and cheating partners, rich people and shallow people.
She will meet all kids of men, the ones who will fall at her feet, and the ones who will wipe their feet of her, but Claudia doesn't mind, as long as she gets what she wants...David will jump from one bed to another, until his body betrays him and he finds himself in the trap.
This is the story about greed, infidelity, backstabbing, sex, manipulative and selfish people.
But never mind, she has got another surprise for David...This book was given to me as Christmas present by my sister.
Continuing on my Jackie Collins streak I decided to read this, her first book, and was not disappointed.
I suppose the wife of the awful, lying, cheating ad man was the most well-rounded, with her sensing trouble in her marriage, feeling bold and having an affair, divorcing, and then re-marrying someone much more appreciative and seemingly devoted, but her doubt and insecurities, which plagued her from beginning to end, started to irritate.
Nonetheless, bravo to Ms. Collins for setting an interesting stage, and keeping me up late at night wanting to know what happens next and how it all ends.

