https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/538605.Hercule_Poirot
The Affair at the Victory Ball from 1923 begins a salvo of chronologically arranged Poirot short stories like no other.Reading through this one took me quite some time after I acquired it, and now I return to it for brief periods to read one of them again.
At the time of this printing in 1999, it had been over 60 years since the original Poirot version had been in print.After this, we get a chronological appendix of Agatha Christie’s short story publications between 1923 and 1971, both in America and in Britain, listing the dates, issue numbers, and magazines in which they appeared.
I was aided and abetted by my mother, who approves of buying 800-page tomes as a treat, and I'm pretty sure my form tutor was likewise pleased--we're talking about the man who had spent the last year introducing me to the concept of Sherlock Holmes.I read it over the summer, and this is still one of my favourite possessions.
Agatha Christie has her flaws (and most of them involve foreigners), but she can write a story, and a situation, and a punchline, and she does it really well, again, and again, and again.
(hide spoiler)] Nobody's safe.This book is everything I like about Agatha Christie, all put in one place so you can take a microscope to it, compare things directly.
There are about a dozen more that I read as a child.Earlier Poirots: Austin Trevor, Peter Ustinov, Albert FinneyThis splendidly-priced collection contains stories first published as magazine pieces between 1923 and 1940.
Christie first introduced her dapper Belgian detective Hercule Poirot in 1920, with her own debut novel The Mysterious Affair at Styles.
Almost all of them have been dramatized in the BBC series Agatha Christie's Poirot, together with several of the full-length novels, starring the incomparable David Suchet.
There is generally some character who comes in early on and fills Poirot (and the reader) in on the facts.
A must read for every Christie fan. The collection includes every single short story featuring Hercule Poirot. The stories have over time appeared as part of various collections. Finally they all have been compiled in one place. The cover is the illustration by renowned artist W.Smithson Broadhead who was specially commissioned by Bruce Ingram , editor of Sketch in which many of Christie's early stories appear
Containing all the Poirot stories in one place, this is an absolute treasure for any Christie fan. It also contains the chronology of the stories, and information on the multiple versions of the same story.
From "Poirot Investigates"1) The Adventure of "The Western Star"2) The Tragedy at Marsdon Manor3) Th
A treat for Christie fans! For those who don't care for her writing, the foibles of Hercule Poirot may grate on the nerves as they are more pronounced in these short stories than they were in her full-length novels.Despite the fact that I hadn't read many of the stories before, I was familiar with them from my repeated viewing of David Suchet in "Poirot" on PBS. In fact, so familiar was I with the TV adaptations that I noticed all the variations from their plots when reading these originals!
LOVED everything about this offering. Short stories are especially nice when you are reading more than one book at a time. It just doesn't get better than Hercule Poirot! The writing, suspense, humor and the deduction (which I seem to always get wrong) are nothing less than brilliant. Thanks again to the great AC … Highly recommend!
Along with the novels of Hercule Poirot, Agatha Christie also wrote several short stories of HP whic
One cannot review classics honestly, especially when they have attained a cult status. I am a very late reader of The Queen of crime. For a lifetime fan of Sherlock Holmes, Hercule Poirot felt initially like a 'me too' character but soon enough starts growing on you. The clever references to Sherlock make you smile always. This is surely a collection of stories to be handed over from one generation to another! Must read for everyone
While the numerous Poirot novels are among Christie’s best and popular works, the character excelled in the short format, offering a distillation of what makes him great in concise bites.Published from the 1920s through the 1940s, the tales in The Complete Short Stories present a full portrait of the Belgian police inspector enjoying a retirement career as a celebrity crime stopper in London.
It was somewhat gutsy, but then, no one ever accused Christie of lacking ambition.While Poirot’s novel-length adventures provide complex, multi-layered plots with large casts, his short fiction appearances are admirably economical.
I have always been a fan of detective stories and like thousands of other people, my childhood hero was Sherlock Holmes (I think deep down, he still is my hero!).
This Hercule Poirot collection was the first time I tried Poirot and I LIKED him!
Hercule Poirot is an eccentric old man with such a passion towards order and rational thoughts and he has such a nice sense of humour!
Like the Greek demigod, Hercule Poirot also did 12 'grand labours' and the stories are named after the 'Labours of Hercules'.
So, Holmes or Poirot?
Non avendo mai letto niente su Hercule Poirot ho preferito comprare questo libro che contiene tutte le opere di Agatha Christie dedicate al celebre investigatore belga. Ebbene, devo dire che all'inizio sono stato quasi rapito e coinvolto dalle varie indagini e peripezie dei due protagonisti (Poirot ed il suo fido amico Hastings); in seguito, però, i racconti mi son sembrati un po' tutti uguali (cambiava la location ed i personaggi ma la trama era sempre la stessa). Penso, comunque, che possa anche essere colpa mia che ho letto il libro in un colpo solo...[http://rosatoeu.blogspot.it/2014/09/p...]
I don't generally like reading short stories.
I don't feel that there is adequate time for the characters to be properly developed.
That is not a problem in a book such as this, because we already know all about Hercule Poirot.
Each story felt like another chapter in his life, and I was able to enjoy them quite easily.I've been reading this collection off and on for the past year or so, whenever I had just a little snippet of time.
I was amazed when I discovered I had read the final page.
It felt like this book should have gone on endlessly!
I have always been a fan of Sherlock Holmes and my interest in Hercules Poirot cases had been limited to the few television serials that i had seen as a child.
After reading this book i must say that I am totally awed.
I do confess that both the detectives have a different style of working and yes this book may not provide you an exhaustive or detailed account into Poirot's adventures , but it gives you a glimpse into the world of his 'Grey cells' so to speak.
I loved the excitement that builds up as you read the case develop and the anticipation would keep you awake all night.
My father loves these stories, and the last time we were at his place for a visit, he loaned a copy of this book to my son.
He read it in a single sitting and loaned it to my other son.
I finally got around to reading it and I can't honestly say why I liked it as much as I did.
The the dialog is artificial, the characters are unbelievable, and the stories vary between predictable and unlikely.
Yeah, I recommend this book.
i love these short stories... nothing like a little mystery on a rainy night in bed
When asked on a panel to name the one mystery book prior to 1995 that inspired me to become a lifelong reader, I selected, “Murder on the Orient Express” by Agatha Christie.
So you can imagine my delight at finding a book of short stories and novellas, written by Agatha Christie featuring Poirot, one of her most popular sleuths.Agatha Christie is the most widely published author of all time and in any language outsold only by the Bible and Shakespeare.
Agatha Christie's published her first novel “The Mysterious Affair at Styles” in 1920 featuring detective Hercule Poirot.
It took me some time but I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.
Hercule Poirot is my favourite detective of all times.
It was fun to compare the stories with the TV show's episodes.
I had no idea that they put some stories together for the show.
Also, there was one story "The Capture of Cerberus" I couldn't place, I just don't remember a similar plot from the television show.
The story I enjoyed the most was "The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding".
It took place at Christmas, had a fantastic old-fashioned feeling, and I actually learned something new from this story.
A spectacular gift for all Hercule Poirot Fans! This volume contains all the masterpiece short tales of crime and detection featuring the charismatic detective Hercule Poirot created by Agatha Christie. It has a total of 51 short stories which are full of mystery, thrill and mind-boggling plot twists.
fun to revisit Hercule Poirot 20-some years after last reading him. Tho the dismissive attitude towards women got a little old (and thus I don't feel bad about not actually reading the whole thing). That said, I might very well come back after a while and read some more in a few months.
Every story was a delight to read! Recommended for all Hercule Poirot fans.
51 stories. All very, very clever. Brilliantly written and crafted. I enjoyed this series of stories very much!
This is the obvious choice for anyone wanting a complete set of the Poirot short stories.
Fifty years span the beginning and end of these and each one is a masterclass of misdirection and craft.
I read a great summation of Christie that I wish I could find (if I do will update) but argued that we read Agatha differently than almost any other author--we go in expecting a puzzle against her, the author, knowing her feints and the set up, almost like a Greek chorus or play, and her skill is still subverting us at the end.
First I started reading the book from the first story.
But for some reason, I didn't continue after reading two stories.
Then some years later, I again started the book from the 51th story and finished it eventually.I liked most of the stories.
May be that is the reason behind it.
I have realized today that my little gray cells have become active and I am linking up interrelations among many past events!
:PBecause of Poirot, I had a little practice of French and learned some new words too!
Thanks to Nubaira for giving me the book :*
Non amo eccessivamente i racconti di nessun genere, perché per ovvie ragioni non permettono di sviluppare una trama o dei personaggi in maniera ampia.
E però i racconti di Poirot sono sempre godibilissimi, ti riportano indietro a un'epoca diversa, dove non c'erano serial killer da inseguire e catturare ma soltanto celluline grige da far lavorare per vedere con gli occhi della mente come si sono svolti i fatti.E poi c'è poco da fare, Poirot resta il mio eroe, con tutte le sue manie e i suoi vezzi...
e in alcuni di questi racconti sono anche riuscita a ragionare come lui e capire chi poteva aver commesso il delitto...
What a perfect book that gathers up a good deal of the short stories, rather then requiring hunting each short story and respective anthology in turn from the library. It goes without saying that Agatha Christie is truly the queen of mystery. Her stories while set in the past, are ingenious mysteries that will continue to be an engaging read well into the future.
I am on an Agatha Christie kick in general right now, but this short story collection is one of my all time favorite reads. Great when you are short on time and when you are so curious that you just HAVE to find out the ending right away.
Very enjoyable set of short stories. Not every story was great but the collection was fun to read.
Again in preparation for "Murder on the Orient Express" coming out fall 2017 directed by and starring Kenneth Branaugh, I have sought out all my Hercule Poirot books to steep myself in the character.
I remember again why Hercule is my favorite of all Dame Christie's sleuths!*****Well, I've finished, and I have to say I enjoyed it very much.
Many of the stories are from previously published books, and I recognized many of them, but found some new treasures among the old.
In particular, I'd never read "From the Labors of Hercules", a series of 12 stories all based on the 12 labors of Hercules.
