https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227463.A_Clockwork_Orange
The American version, on which Stanley Kubrick’s film adaptation was based, ends on a less optimistic note.) In short, it’s a novella of ideas which just happens to contain a fair bit of violence.It is also quite an artistic and linguistic achievement.
(If I want to read an incomprehensible book, I’ll read Finnegans Wake, thank you very much.) However, Burgess takes great care to introduce his new words in an understandable way, so after a few pages I got the hang of the nadsat lingo, and after a few more pages I actually began to enjoy it, because I’m enough of a linguist to go in for that sort of thing.
Usually a bad idea, but in this case, being familiar with the plot and the Nadsat slang made it easier to relax (if that's an appropriate word, given some of the horrors to come) into the book.
The year after that, Kubrick asked for it to be withdrawn, and it was, even though he said"To try and fasten any responsibility on art as the cause of life seems to me to put the case the wrong way around."See Withdrawl of film from UK screensandOmission of final chapterPlot and StructureIt is a short novel, comprising three sections of seven chapters, told by “your humble narrator”, Alex.
Instead they just see and object of power, knowledge and wealth, so they attempt to destroy it.
Like all significant literature, the work has a universal quality: it is as relevant today as it was when it was first published in the 1970s because it shows us what unbridled and misguided temper can achieve.Alex (the gang leader) is thrown into jail after committing a particularly nasty crime.
However, it is also an extremely difficult book to read and an even harder one to enjoy.
I don’t like to have to put effort in when I read; perhaps I’m a lazy reader.
This provides color and mystery to the narrative and it is noteworthy that Burgess' intent was to soften the blow of the violent themes of the book.** 2018 addendum - it is a testament to great literature that a reader recalls the work years later and this is a book about which I frequently think.
I don't always watch a movie after I've read the book, and when I do I usually draw a distinction between the two, but these two works remain indelibly connected in my mind and recollection.
The most noteworthy contrast is the omission of the last chapter from the film.
In 1960 Anthony Burgess was 43 and had written 4 novels and had a proper job teaching in the British Colonial Service in Malaya and Brunei.
But I like the first cool version AB told, which was that he was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumour and given a year to live.
Since as you know he lived a further 33 years, we may conclude the doctors were not entirely correct.
However - the doctor tells you you have a year to live - what do you do?* Lapse into a major depression?
Not if you were Anthony Burgess.
This book was sweet. The way russian was used to show the distopian future was one of the coolest literary devices I have seen. Because I was so enthralled by it, I often read parts more than once to make sure I was getting the meaning right. Everyone should read this book, and then read it again to make sure they got it.
Your humble narrator, Alex, will tell this story my brothers ...First they see an ancient man, leaving the library carrying books, very suspicious, nobody goes there now, inspecting these filthy things and ripping them to pieces, not forgetting a few punches on the offender, to stop this evil habit, next entering a shop and borrowing some needed money, the owner and wife have to be persuaded with just a little force, for this honor, then teaching a scummy drunk, in the street, the evil of his ways, pounding some sense into his addled brain.
Alex is a terrifying character - every bit as evil as the Joker or Anton Chigurh whose state-sponsored brainwashing is equally disturbing.
In any case, the Wakesque language that Alex employs, while not entirely opaque, takes a little getting used to, but I found it did not take away from the powerful emotions that the text invokes.I also suppose that many of us who are anti-Trump fear this kind of proto-fascist dystopian state (which in some ways is a cousin to that of Atwood's Handmaiden's Tale) and this is what will make reading this book really resonate.
This makes me believe that Burgess wishes that his wife was more like the woman in the book; that, in his view, the "correct" response to being gang raped is to curl up and die.
However, it's the implication that you don't have to actually work for your happy ending and the idea that anyone can be redeemed simply by changing their ways (Alex never, ever expresses remorse for what he's done, making his desire to change feel like it's come out of the blue) that bothers me.
Anthony Burgess’s A Clockwork Orange is a fantastic, thought-provoking and immersive read!
It comes very easily once you begin reading, and adds to the experience.
Besides recommending this book, I do have a final thought concerning chapter 21, the chapter which was left out of the published American edition of the novel as well as the iconic film by Stanley Kubrick.
I understand Burgess’s desire to show change in his young anti-hero, Alex; however, the transformation in this final chapter defies believability.
It’s not that dramatic change is impossible.
Otherwise, though, I found A Clockwork Orange an incredibly well-crafted and engaging story.
splattered across this brilliant moral satire, abundant in vibrant, bursting language and a structural perfection: Shakespearean, dammit.
This book is musical!
This book sings, swings, cries and rages!
My first encounter with unbridled creativity, intelligence, elegance, thematic unity, this book made me weep for the future of poor sadistic Alex.
His nadsat is in place up until his story ends, and all that cal, so Alex remains a perpetual teen, like the boring little shit in Salinger’s unambitious literary haemorrhage (I forget the title).
nothing hurts so much on your stomachs and your heads and your hearts as this book .
I did not bother trying to explain that the concept of free will is about much more than just the violent acts committed by the anti-hero Alex: we use free will every day and the point of the book is to get us to think about what it would mean if that capacity to choose was taken away.And I must say, it is not as violent as some people make it sound: most horror novels contain much more disgusting violence than what is in the pages of this book.
437. A Clockwork Orange – Anthony BurgessA Clockwork Orange is a dystopian novel by English writer Anthony Burgess, published in 1962. Set in a near future English society featuring a subculture of extreme youth violence, the teenage protagonist, Alex, narrates his violent exploits and his experiences with state authorities intent on reforming him. The book is partially written in a Russian-influenced argot called "Nadsat". تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز یازدهم ماه اکتبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: پرتقال کو

De esta manera, por dar algunos de ejemplos, "golová" significa cabeza, "tolchoco", golpe, "litso" significa rostro y así sucesivamente para muchas otras palabras más.Confieso que al principio me costó un poco de esfuerzo retener todos estos términos (parecía un dejá-vú del Finnegans Wake cuando comencé a leer las primeras páginas), pero una vez que uno se acostumbra al vocabulario, la lectura se torna muy fluida.
The nadsat language quickly grew on me and enriched the narrative of Alex, an aggressive, vicious 15 year old boy who enjoys beating, raping, robbing and killing or any other criminal activity.
His character takes intriguing turns especially at the end when he goes through a drastic change.This book is definitely one of my favourites as the nadsat language immerses you into the dystopian world and actually makes you think more about what is being said.
This book makes you question society and moral instinct and aids you in fully understanding what is being said with its unique language.
I've never seen the movie either, and now that I've read it, I don't think I want to.This is what it would take to make me watch a movie that includes this as a scene.It's really hard to review this book because it has been studied, picked apart, and written about for years and years.
The language is some sort of made-up slang that will annoy the crap out of you when you start the book.
There had better be something good at the end.The version I read of this book included an extra chapter that was originally edited out of the American version of it.
Love! Love the language used and getting used to that
Freude, schöner Götterfunken, Tochter aus Elysium, A Clockwork Orange. That title has stuck to my mind for a big part of my life, without ever making sense to me. The only image I had in association with these words, not having seen the movie but only some references to it, was a guy forced to keep his eyes open, forced to watch horrible images of extreme violence accompanied with music so loud it made his ears bleed. I could not make sense of that title, oh no. I was afraid of that title and o
Is a man who chooses the bad perhaps in some way better than a man who has the good imposed upon him?"This discussion was then poured into the metaphor of the "Clockwork Orange", and it's then that all my doubts and wonderings over the title of this book finally clicked into place:
If those questions aren't enough for you, oh my brothers, to sit and think hard on your own value systems, Anthony Burgess uses this amazing protagonist as a mirror for your mind, inescapable and uncomfortable.
Watch out, my brothers, for he's good with words.
It's why I felt so guilty giving it a perfect 5 star rating, but I really had no choice.
I felt angry at the world surrounding Alex and despised almost all he encountered while gnawing at the back of my mind was the unrelenting truth that he himself was a monster.
It's an outrageous thought put down on the page, which the intro also touches on, how non-human a being incapable of doing evil is and how it's just as foreign as a being of pure evil.It's a short read, I finished it in a day and a half and in my opinion a must read.
This is going to be a challenge because I find A Clockwork Orange a tricky book.I'll start by saying that last week I read Prince of Thorns, a book about a 14 years old boy (Jorg) who kills, rapes and does pretty much everything he wants.
This book is about a 15 years old boy (Alex) who rapes, kills and does pretty much everything he wants.
I mean a boy doesn't get like Alex if he has loving and caring parents.
I don't mean that I cannot believe a 15-year-old could be that vicious, I just don't understand why.Nope.
To quote 15 year-old Alex, the narrator of A Clockwork Orange, “what I do I do because I like to do”.
His two-faced approach to life leaves the reader wondering “who is the *real* Alex and is he truly capable of reform?” In the end, (view spoiler)[the answer is “no”.
His two-faced approach to life leaves the reader wondering “who is the *real* Alex and is he truly capable of reform?” In the end, (view spoiler)[the answer is that in time, maturity, the mere plodding march of chronology, wears down the deadly inner-demons that even brainwashing cannot purge.
'What's it going to be then, eh?'That was me, that is your humble commentator, sitting down to pass my glazzies over a book eemyaed A Clockwork Orange I'd sobirated from the biblio.
Burgess in all his high goloss; I expected to loathe Alex and all his malenky malchick droogs.
I actually guffed and smecked at like many veshches.
But I nearly platched at how malenky little Alex saw the error of his ways and looked forward to a life of chai and a zheena and malenky vecks of his own.But once I viddied the story like once I wanted rookerfuls, and I've returned again and again, both to A.
Pues al final me ha gustado más de de que esperaba. El gran problema que he tenido con este libro (aparte del glosario) es que odio la violencia y más si es gratuita.
Actual rating: 3.5 🌟'sDespite me "only" giving this book a rating of 3.5 stars, I completely understand why it is considered a masterpiece.
I got more comfortable the more I read, but considering that this is also a rather short book, I can say that I had trouble during most of it.The actual topic is amazing; I definitely enjoyed the plot and felt connected to the main character Alex.
It proves that a book doesn't need to be one hundred percent understandable to make an impact.A that's why I would recommend to everyone to read this book at least once, regardless of my star-rating.
How many times in a day do we hear Be-Yourself, I-am-what-I-am, and all those statutory reminders calling upon our self-control, decision-making, and ever-active  inner agent  which is none other than the entity that makes us us? When we grow up, we are all constantly being told or reminded or warned to find our own place in the society, not to get lost in the crowd, and most importantly, to be/become what we always want to be/become. And it is the choices we make during moral dilemmas diversifi
And it is the choices we make during moral dilemmas diversifies us into the good and the bad (I am going to keep the ugly out of this discussion, dear brothers!).
Within every man, is both the powerful surge toward the good because we are made in the image of God, and the darker impulses toward evil because of the effects of Original Sin. Alex empathetically addresses his distant brothers, the readers, and asks that whether it is not the mere choice of every individual to be good or bad, let alone the dark impulses and consciousness.
This is a very thought-provoking read.The character of Alex is an incredibly interesting one.
The whole story makes you question your own thoughts, your own views, but ultimately you end up finding out more about yourself while reading it.
Yes, by the end of it, he has been through a lot of horrible and torturous things himself but he remained a vile person throughout it all anyway so by making the ending that (view spoiler)[ he just decides he's too old and is now bored of the violence so won't do it anymore and will instead get married and have kids  (hide spoiler)] is, in my opinion, a load of crap.
People actually like this book.
Like, this is considered one of the best books of the twentieth century by real people?
Is anything really going to happen or is this guy and his droogs just going to wander the streets committing random acts of violence?
Oh wait, a malchick isn't a woman.
Malchicks are guys.
there is a plot developing here all of a sudden, okay, awesome, great, hey this really isn't so bad after all.
And, you know, those scenes of violence weren't really all that bad.
I mean, they were bad, but it's just a book.
Why didn't I read this book in high school when everyone else did?
“I believe that we should read only those book that bite and sting us.
My God, we would also be happy if we had no books, and the books that make us happy we could, if necessary, write ourselves.
What we need are books that affect us like some really grievous misfortune, like the death of one whom we loved more than ourselves, as if we were banished to distant forests, away from everybody, like a suicide; a book must be the ax for the frozen sea within us."-Franz KafkaAnd what a powerful ax A Clockwork Orange is.
I guess Heath Ledger read this book to figure out how to play the Joker.
I can see why, (if Heath Ledger read the book), this book can make you feel crazy.
I read somewhere (I don't recall where though) that this book was written after his wife was raped.
But you feel sorry for him.I am just going to say I liked the ending, and I can understand why Mr. Burgess ended how he did.I do recommend, if you want to read it, use the appendix from Wikipedia to decipher the slang words used in the book.
Reaction after an almost re -readI watched th film wayyyyy back before I read the book 2 years ago. For me reading the book was more harrowing than watching the film (Malcolm McDowell *wink wink nudge nudge*)there are certain parts that I still go back and re read. While I never sympathised with Alex's behaviour or situation, I couldn't help but liking him to some extent. His character just grew on me as the book progressed.And that left me more disturbed than anything! :DThe musical references were an added bonus :)****Phewwwww....
