https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1215032.The_Wise_Man_s_Fear
The Name of the Wind gave us many mysteries and few answers.The first book was a fun read that, while flawed in terms of story and character, was quite entertaining and extraordinarily well written.
I will admit that I do enjoy the occasional, well done love story, so long as it actually serves a purpose to the plot, or makes me feel that these characters truly do love each other and deserve to be together--two things that are lacking here, so much so, in fact that it completely and utterly ruins the entire series from the first page Denna walked in on.
HULK FROTH AT MOUTH WHEN THINKING ABOUT PERFECTION OF ALWAYS CLEVER KVOTHE!
BUT HULK IS NOT FEELING GENEROUS AND SO HE MUST CALL OUT THAT THIS IS STUPID, STUPID MISTAKE FROM VERY SMART AUTHOR!
HULK LOVE HOW ROTHFUSS TAKES TIME WITH EPISODIC NOVEL AND LETS READER REALLY UNDERSTAND EACH PART OF WORLD THAT STUPID KVOTHE VISITS.
HULK ESPECIALLY LOVE KNOWING ABOUT ADEM CULTURE.
HULK LOVE MYSTERIES AND BOOK IS FULL OF GOOD MYSTERIES!
HULK ALSO LIKE PORTRAYAL OF MOST WOMEN IN BOOK.
BUT HULK ESPECIALLY LOVE WARRIOR WOMEN OF ADEM!
HULK LIKE BIG THINGS!
BUT HULK NOT LIKE KVOTHE!
Back in late 2009 I finally got the book to the point where I was satisfied with it.
By May 2010 I'd re-written the book to the point where I was happy with it.
It was a good book.
It was a book I was pleased with.
By my final deadline in November 2010, I'd revised things to the point where I was excited about it.
It was a great book.
It was finally a book I was proud of....I'm glad my editor gave me enough time for this.
I'm glad I have a book I'm excited to have on the shelves.
Certainly if he's to conclude the story in three books it seems that a drastic up-ing of focus and pace (or a 10,000 page book) would be required to deal with Heliax and friends.So, let's put to one side the fact that if you think the story is about revenge on the Chandrian then basically nothing happened, and note instead that all the 'side' adventuring was fun to read and very well written.Kvothe continues to be brilliant at everything.
The same holds true of lovemaking."Haha, right, so by now it's getting hilarious, because this little twirp who, at age 16, manages to find two women willing to sleep with him (one of whom is imaginary), decides that he's become The God of Sex, and must now spend the rest of the book acting like an effeminate man-whore.Kvothe speaking again:"One type [of sex] is suited to the deep cushions of a twilight forest glade.
That's right guys, women are like instruments, and they exist for your use and pleasure.Realizing that what he just said is sophomoric, sexist, and a little insane, Kvothe clarifies:"Some might take offense at this way of seeing things.
(This review is from 2011.)In case you haven’t heard, today is the release day of the long-awaited sequel to  The Name of the Wind , a delightful debut fantasy novel by Patrick Rothfuss. I’ve had the privilege of reading the book, so I thought I’d post a heads-up here for those of you who read my blog, along with a review. (Of sorts.) Also, a reminder, I did an interview with Pat (and he kind of interviewed me back) for Amazon. You can read it at this link: http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html.
Haven’t yet read Name of the Wind, so giving you an extensive review of the second book would really just be a big confusing spoiler.PART TWO: GO BUY ITThis is a very, very good book.
It’s the type of magic system that I’m always delighted to read, and ranks among my favorites in fantasy literature.
But that alone doesn’t describe why the books are awesome.In many ways, Name of the Wind is like an old, familiar coat.
Wise Man’s Fear is a beautiful book to read.
The outsider is left to run roughshod over their own projects and ruin whatever originally great thing it was they had made.In film: George Lucas/The Wachowski'sIn Games: Peter MolyneauxIn Books: Patrick RothfussI think it's an important preamble, because very nearly every page of this 1000 page epic screams "edit me".
It really, really shows.I can't go any further into the faults without completely ruining it for you, but suffice to say it's flabby where we don't care, lean where we do, Denna dominates fully 100 pages of screen-time (and is even more annoying this time around) and there are 60 full pages of egregious faery boning, wherein Kvothe is schooled in the arts of love by an ancient mythical Fuck-Goddess.Lastly, and maybe I was spoiled by an Abercrombie special before I read this in the shape of The Heroes: There was no character development in this book.
The inevitable long await is so disheartening and the fury's already starting to creep in.Thus, Kvothe, this's my farewell letter to you.Dearest favourite douche in fantasy,Let's get real, here, you rub people the wrong way (not me.
In my eyes, you could do no wrong.The good:Your kind heart, inner-child curiosity and relentless work ethics & hard-core survival instincts (my personal favourite) are unparalleled, and if I were to be stranded on a deserted island, it’d, without a doubt, be with you (because, apparently, we get to choose who we get stranded with) therefore I’ve chosen to forgive all of your other shortcomings as your strengths far outweigh your flaws.And that absolute badass move you pulled toward the end of the book?… well, let's just say that that move put you right back up onto my top five male characters in fantasy.
I am SO excited to read this. Omg. AHH.EditSecond time reading this, and I decided to listen to the audiobook - I really enjoyed the narration. It was a long audiobook, but it was enjoyable every second of the way.
4.5/5 starsThe Wise Man’s Fear had all the potential to be better than The Name of the Wind and although this is still an amazing book, putting it in comparison with its prequel show how this one fell a bit short in quality.Picture: The Wise Man’s Fear main quoteThe plot of WMF, still as simplistic as the previous book, started on Day 2 straight after the end of NotW with Kvothe sharing his life journey to Chronicler with Bast listening to it.
FINALLY!!How much can I rave about these books?
The storytelling is so engrossing, the worldbuilding super immersive, and the characters pull all the stellar elements together in a series that truly defines epic fantasy.
You want to KNOW these characters, you want to see them interact, and you definitely want to go on a journey with them.After reading a lot of paperback UF novels, I felt so pleased that this book provided what felt like 4 books-worth of story and development and wonderfulness for the price.
If you are a fantasy fan and haven't read this series, please try it, because you will LOVE IT.
It starts much as Name of the Wind ended, with Kvothe still a 15 year old at the University.
Kvothe has a handful of new adventures at the university and tells us much about his classes and his never ending pining over Denna.At this point it's good to make a, um, point.
It's nice to have that main plot line running through the many hundreds of pages of his adventures, and it does give Kvothe's life a bit of a forward thrust.
(Though it is still a page turner).This reminds me of when Kvothe tells a story to his two friends.
Well, you could send him off on a throwaway adventure with a band of highly experienced mercenaries and woodsmen and have him be the leader and the one who saves them from certain destruction, but only after having multiple chapters where he and the band do nothing in the forest aside from Tai-Chi and tell stories that don't matter with the exception of one which gets thrown into the Fae mythos for incredibly lame reasons why wars begin.This book doesn't feel natural whatsoever.
He  almost  wielded his magic like he did the first time; he  almost teased me in the same way and made me feel like I was part of the story, but, ultimately, stumbled over his own words.
It needed to be taken far away for Kvothe to grow as a person and discover his limits; he needed to go and fully understand the name of the wind.
In this, we see the true potential of this character; we see where he may go when he is a man grown in both body and mind.However, in spite of this, I think some things happened way too fast.
a review of three parts (revisited)    dawn was coming. the keys of a laptop lay in stillness to continue a review, and it was a review of three parts.the most obvious part was a vast, echoing question made by answers that were lacking. if there had been more pages, words would have wrapped and scattered across the sheets of paper beneath anxious hands. ideas would have formed and floated and chased the question across the mind like a wisp of summer breeze. if there had been more to kvothes
the keys of a laptop lay in stillness to continue a review, and it was a review of three parts.the most obvious part was a vast, echoing question made by answers that were lacking.
but those thoughts faded too, leaving nothing but a second part of the review, waiting like an endless indrawn breath.the third part was not an easy thing to notice.
it was in the heavy words that lay across pages reluctantly turned because the end was coming all too quickly.
her eyes were bright and attentive, and she typed with the sure direction of one who has read and reviewed many books over time.
Patrick Rothfuss's The Wise Man's Fear is a great continuation (book #2) of the KingKiller Chronicle.
We learn much about the precocious young wizard, Kvothe, and we get more of a feel for the conflicts and turmoil of the present from which Kvothe tells his story.
But while, in terms of story, the book advanced our understanding of our protagonist and made us anticipate/contemplate what is to come, I didn't come away feeling like this book had blown me away.
However, I am still convinced that this is a great series.
VEXED I tell you!Update 11/10/2014We now haves this book and we reads it.
This isn't a comedic series, but the dialogue between Kvothe and his troupe is simply amazing.
3) I cried at several places, again in NotW when Kvothe played for his talent pipes at the Eolian and sang The Lay of Sir Savien Traliard, singing the part of Savien while Denna sang the part of Aloine.
I cried like a school girl who lost her lunch at the end, just as Kvothe did, all the while laughing at myself for being a reader, played by Rothfuss who masterfully controlled my emotions.
I have never read a book that was simultaneously so bad and so good.
Then the author tells us that 16-year-old Kvothe knows ten thousand songs and stories.
I give Rothfuss full credit for finally telling us that there are some things Kvothe is not good at.
There's no doubt that he could become the world's best in an hour if he wanted to.Then, after all that, he makes very slow progress in the Adem way.
I like the way Rothfuss leads us into thinking Kvothe is learning something from the Adem.
This time the "some people need killing" is actually spoken right out.
More on that later.I didn’t want this book to end.
Kvothe is searching for information regarding the Chandrian and I can see how this motivates his direction throughout the book.
He uses the outside frame of the story to hint that trouble abounds in the present-day world, but it is not enough.
By the time Pat arrived, the 300+ people were spilling out the doors into the parking lot.
Pat teased that the third book would be “longish” and published in a hundred years.
He signed books for hours.
Read his books, people!
It was an echo of reviews within reviews within reviews.Chapter 1:"The wise man's fear," the reviewer said, "is a book you can't simply review." He shifted toward his audience."Why is that?" one eager listener asked."Because one doesn't simply dislike it like a twilight on an autumn eve.
Sat there like noone else could, beautifully, but without moving again.After two hours of watching Johnny Depp sitting in 3D, I fell asleep and found myself transported into the white room."Hello there," said Johnny Depp."Wow, I mean, hi," I said."So, what are you doing in my movie?" asked Johnny Depp.
I like stories where I cannot predict what will happen next. Patrick Rothfuss writes stories like that. Good solid characters and a plot that unfolds as unpredictably as life itself.
Original review: Not sure whether to rate this 4 or 5 stars yet, but I think I'll end up probably changing it to 5.
There's so much love behind it!This book carried right from where it left off when the first book ended, and I love that addition to the story.
The world is bigger and better and there's so much Rothfuss explores and adds to this incredibly, magical story.
I fell in love with Kvothe even more and I'm dying to see how his story will conclude and how Rothfuss will make it come round full-circle.
AND HE'S STILL BETTER THAN YOU.Instead of repeating my previous review about this special snowflake/Gary Stu, let me just leave the actual book description here:"My name is Kvothe.
Still can't stand the way the author views and writes women.
Most of it felt like a repeat of the first book?
I can barely lift this book, so it seems like something should have happened in those 994 pages.
But it could pretty much just be summed up as "Kvothe gets laid."I gave the first book 2 stars because the writing was decent, but even that isn't enough to save this mess.
yeah), so I'll just make a couple of lists here.Things I liked (or rather loved) about the book-Kvothe-Kvothe's insane growth as a character and just as a human-Kvothe's friends (I want my very own Simmon, please + thx)-it's so fucking funny guys you have no idea-getting to see different parts of the world-getting to experience different cultures in this world-Kvothe's time with the Maer.
however, looking back on them, I can see that important things happened in them, I just felt like it could have been condensed a bit-all the ladies throwing themselves at Kvothe all the time.
Had the book been maybe two thirds it's length I think it could have been better.Without spoilers I found that the story of Kvothe wanders along getting almost nowhere...yes I know we established some more of it here, but not a lot and we're about where we were in a lot of ways.
I hope I like the next one better.(view spoiler)[I found that once the story within a story got started I was mildly "re-interested" in the book.
1.) The Name of the Wind ★★★★★2.) The Wise Man's Fear ★★★★★2.4) The Lightning Tree ★★★★★2.5) The Slow Regard of Silent Things ★★★★★3.) Doors of Stone n/aThis review is going to contain mild spoilers and theory crafting, so I have to caution you while reading this if you are not familiar with this amazing world.
A long stretch of road will teach you more about yourself than a hundred years of quiet.”Most the time I think the second installment of trilogies feel like complete filler books.
You know that feeling when you finish a book and think "It wasn't as good as the first, i should rate it with less stars", but then think "It is still excellent, and doesn't deserve less than a perfect score" ?
TWMF wasn't the perfect, one in a million book as was TNOTW.
I consider myself lucky reading his books.
:)“It's the questions we can't answer that teach us the most.
They teach us how to think.
But give him a question and he'll look for his own answers.” You can find more of my reviews over at http://BookNest.eu/
(And by the way, if you didn’t feel like rereading book one, Patrick Rothfuss posted a wonderful web comic recap on his blog.)Saying that the level of anticipation for The Wise Man’s Fear was high is an understatement, especially given that The Name of the Wind was only Patrick Rothfuss’ debut.
Just getting to read more about the young, brilliant Kvothe at the University is a pleasure, although it did feel as if the first few hundred pages of this novel moved a bit more slowly and actually could have been part of the first book, with Kvothe’s eventual departure making a perfect starting point for the sequel.
”Nothing in the world is harder than convincing someone of an unfamiliar truth.” I think an unfamiliar truth that would be hard convincing me about is the fact that the third book might never be released. I do have a theory, maybe the next book is actually 6000 pages long, that's why it's taking this long, right??? Nahh. Am going to put aside my thoughts and theories about the next book and talk about this book for a moment.This book starts off where book one ended and it's actually the second
I love Bast even more now, he's crazy and hella entertaining and chronicler is calm and thoughtful.Throughout this book, I kept wondering what happened to Kvothe cause there are obvious differences between the younger Kvothe and innkeeper Kvothe ,am itching to find out what made him so different.
I found the Ademre people very fascinating, they were a unique race to read about and it was cool to get to learn about their culture and hand signatures.About the Felurian incident(view spoiler)[When she was introduced into the book, I was very excited thinking the book would eventually involve Faes and a whole lot more of magic but sadly that's not what happened with Felurian.
OK Kvothe is always making the most stupid decisions. But now it's been two days since I finished this book and I MISS HIM. I need the third installment and I know I won't get it anytime soon.
