https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3254063-the-crowded-street
Why doesn’t somebody write a book about someone to whom nothing happens – like me?” The Crowded Street follows Muriel Hammond through the years 1900 to 1920.
The reader first glimpses Muriel as a nine year girl attending her first formal party and experiences with her the anguish of feeling left out and unable to understand the expected rules of behaviour, to the disappointment of her status conscious mother.This early experience sets a pattern for Muriel throughout the book.
I was also very touched to read my review (below) from when I first read it as I've come a long way since and have indeed fulfilled my dream of becoming a teacher, following my vision as Muriel finally realises she has to do in the book at the expense of a perhaps satisfying to some but ultimately dull relationship.
I read it then as an interesting piece of women's history in fiction form - it was vivid and beautifully written but not something that resonated with my personal life.I've just finished reading the book now that I find myself in a situation very similar to that of Muriel, the main character, as I'm about to end the most fulfilling relationship I've had to pursue a career.
I loved the beginning of this Persephone novel with its deft portrayal of Muriel’s childish excitement about going to a party and her social naïveté. While the author goes on to tell an interesting (and sometimes sad) story of how Muriel and her sister try to find a way to happiness through the social expectations and limited options of their time, I didn’t think the writing and character development lived up to the wonderful, imaginative opening scenes.
Muriel firmly believes that“Men do as they like” while women “wait to see what they will do” The rather sad figure of her unmarried Aunt Beatrice is a warning of what awaits her should she not manage to achieve the ultimate prize of a husband.When we first meet Muriel she is 11 – attending her first party with almost breathless anticipation – where she must fill her dance card and behave beautifully in front of the watching eyes of Marshington’s mothers.“All the way to Kingsport, dangling her legs from the box seat of the brougham – she always rode outside with Turner, because to ride inside made her sick – Muriel had watched the thin slip of a moon ride with her above the dark rim of the wolds, and she had sung softly to herself and to the moon and to Victoria, the old carriage horse, “I’m going to the Party, the Party, the Party.” And here she was.”Unfortunately Muriel’s first taste of Marshington society is not a success – and the poor girl goes home in disgrace.
She was in Scarborough as a school girl at that time and dramatizes the episode as a moment of epiphany, and futility.The story spans twenty years and unfolds in a prologue and five 'Books' or sections, each named for and revealing of a character important in Muriel Hammond's life: the glamorous school friend, Clare; Mrs Hammond; Muriel's younger sister, Connie; Delia, the free-thinking daughter of the vicar.
Like so many of Persephone's books, The Crowded Street tells of a woman whose life is constricted by the role she must play in the society of her time.
Muriel is quiet and shy, yearning for a career or some way to be of service to others, but the only opportunities she's given are to marry (a chance which never seems to come her way) or to stay home and help her mother, who doesn't really need her help.This was Holtby's second novel, and it does show some immaturity of style and plot: one section, dealing with Muriel's sister Connie, is overly melodramatic, and Muriel's final transformation is too much told and not shown.
I read this as a follow-up to Vera Brittain's THE DARK TIDE and was interested to find a very Vera-like character in Muriel's friend (frenemy? employer?), Delia. The book could be stressful to read at times, but I found the ending quite perfect (and such a relief!).I so passionately wish the BBC radio serialization was available on CD or for download. I'm linking Rohan Maitzen's discussion of the book for future reference.So that's two Holtby novels down and only four to go. I must pace myself!
A lovely read
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Dramatisation of Winifred Holtby's novel about Muriel Hammond's journey to womanhood and independence
Isn't it a wonderful thing about books, that they can take place 100 years ago and yet still feel like a strangely comforting answer to questions you're struggling with today?The Crowded Street covers 20 years of Muriel's life, from 9 to 29.
And it's weird, because 100 years later, I feel like things should have changed - and they have, a little.
("Don't study so far away, what if you meet a nice boy this year and you have to go long distance, or break things up?") It's a comfort, to read stories like this.
3.5 StarsWhile I liked this novel, I didn’t love it. It’s a perfectly enjoyable story of Muriel, a young girl struggling to find her place within the confines of a restrictive Edwardian society in a small Yorkshire village, a world where marriage seems to be the only option available to ladies of her class. That said, it lacks some of the bite of other stories I’ve been reading lately, particularly those by women writers from the mid-20th century, a favourite period of literature for me.To read the rest of my thoughts, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...

I liked this more than her better-known South Riding, despite the melodrama of the bucolic episode!
I really identified with the heroine, and I thought the author perfectly captured what it's like to be awkward and shy and a social failure with “a fatal diffidence”: They promise us all sorts of things,” she said, “happiness, success, adventure—don’t you know?
Then suddenly we find ourselves left alone in a dull crowded street with no one caring and our lives unneeded, and all the fine things that we meant to do, like toys that a child has laid aside.” But I thought the book took a little too long for Muriel to find herself, and that the story lost its way when it detoured into the country with Connie's marriage.
Ogni nuova piega della vita viene affrontata con la sicurezza che succederà qualcosa di buono, e ogni delusione è una stilettata.Non solo il passare degli anni e delle delusioni, ma anche la tragedia che si riversa sulla sorella Connie (e sempre frutto della convenzione sociale per cui l'unica ambizione delle donne deve essere il matrimonio), alla lunga spogliano Muriel della sua convinzione, lasciandola amareggiata e silenziosamente furiosa con le forze nella sua vita che l'hanno spinta e spinta verso un traguardo impossibile.'They promise us all sorts of things,' she said, 'happiness, success, adventure - don't you know?
Funny how so many of us want to read a book about someone to whom nothing ever happens.
We must REALLY be bored!
But I didn't actually read the book; I listened to the BBC abridged audio, presented in 10, 13-minute segments.
It was a few months ago, so I don't remember details, but as I recall I enjoyed the listening, as it wasn't particularly complicated.
Rather more just an enjoyable fiction.
I was a little annoyed, however, at the type-cast characters: Muriel, weak, but with so much potential; Clare, perfection embodied, but not really; Connie, the rebellious younger sister; Delia, the one who does what Muriel can't; and of course the over-bearing mother.
There's much empathy here, with a deep reflection on a closed and cramped life of one woman in the first third of the twentieth century. The curtailing of Muriel - the central character - is frustrating, but authentic. While not a classic, it's a fantastic reminder of the role of women in society.
1.5 stars. I am shocked at the high ratings given to this insipid novel, and disappointed because I've always relied on Persephone's high standards. I definitely won't be reading WH's "masterpiece" South Riding after this.
The Crowded Street might be called outdated, as we are no more truly of the opinion that an unmarried woman is a sad spinster, and we start acknowledging there are other ways for women to find fulfilment outside marriage and motherhood.
The Crowded Street is not an easy novel to read, but it does reflect starkly on the WW1 period and interwar years and their effects not on men, but on the women who had to stay behind - the emptiness of their lives, the lack of men, the search for suitable husbands, and the testing attempt at finding other ways to make oneself live a respectable and enjoyable life.
Who IS this DRIP of a heroine?
Cowardly, collapsed Muriel Hammond is so unlike Holtby's usual uncompromising women, I began to despair - until I realized that the poor girl was in the toils of a Mrs. Danvers-level creepy woman - her beautiful, horribly manipulative mother.
And in the end, Muriel frees herself in a a most satisfying way.
I also loved the way Holtby dwelt on Mrs. Hammond's perfectly polished pink fingernails, the perfect emblem of her predatory nature.
Absolutely loved this book, it is just stunning.
Serious yet witty, it is a perfect examination of human lives.
Beautifully written, perfectly imagined.
But the author knew her objectives and purpose in the story, and was not swayed by the easy or cliche choice.Also worth mentioning it is a very useful text if you want to understand just how simple the womens liberation movement was at the beginning.
Forget feminism this 20s book illustrates perfectly the tiny bit of equality women strove to achieve and how difficult and costly it was to get.
As with all Persephone books, a well-written story of the frustration and sometimes tragedy of unmarried women, or hastily married women, or even happily married women who consider the matrimonial state and the opinions of others more important than their own ideals and dreams. Muriel, the heroine of this book, finally grows into a mature woman and learns to consider herself an interesting and valuable person who has a right to happiness. I liked this book enough to order 2 more titles by this author.
Has most of the charm of South Riding, and a lot of the same affection for the characters - some of whom (the headmistress, Muriel's parents) are just as well-formed as anyone in South Riding - but other characters feel flat, and the plot lines occasionally feel pretty contrived. That said, this book in no way soured me on Winifred, and I'll gladly read everything else she's written. I just need to take a little break from Yorkshire first.
Such an amazing read. I stumbled across this novel on BBC Radio and decided that I wanted to read it. The varied storylines that weave together, reflecting the social & cultural expectations surrounding women, is so well done here. The pressure to marry, to support, and to follow the men in their lives is well developed in the story. Our main character, Muriel, allows us the inside view into her world and the strange hypocrisies we all accept.
A touching and yet provocative tale of the unfulfilled life of a middle class English woman from girlhood to early middle age. It is also a picture of the class conscious dynamics of a representative family of the early twentieth century. The story related poignantly the frustrations and disappointments of the elder daughter Muriel Hammond whose life long yearning for love and acceptance finally evolves in an unexpected but still satisfying manner.
I did not have any fellow-feeling for anyone in this book. Perhaps because I am lucky and never had to face a life like Muriel's? I found parallels to "Alas Poor Lady" which I read a week or two before I picked up this one. I wanted to scream at times for the4sed poor deluded bored women, and then I just plodded on to get it over with. Hate giving a Persephone just 2 stars, but, well, not everything can be perfect.
Such an amazing read. I stumbled across this novel on BBC Radio and decided that I wanted to read it. The varied storylines that weave together, reflecting the social & cultural expectations surrounding women, is so well done here. The pressure to marry, to support, and to follow the men in their lives is well developed in the story. Our main character, Muriel, allows us the inside view into her world and the strange hypocrisies we all accept.
The book is an interesting portrayal of the changing attitudes of women during and after the First World War. The story unfolds slowly with most of the action taking place in the quiet Yorkshire village of Marshington. Muriel is at times a frustrating protagonist by her acceptance of her place in society despite her pent up anger about her situation. However, it is a realistic portrayal with a satisfying rather than 'happy ever after' ending.
A fascinating and rather sad novel by an author who is much better known for her final book, South Riding. It has a complex, basically feminist theme, but there's nothing stereotypical, and the characters are very well-developed. The frightening lack of choices for women of this period is starkly illustrated with no didacticism.
Have just re-read this after a lapse of 30 years. I think it’s even better than I remember. An important, moving, beautifully written book, simmering with suppressed rage and grief: it deserves to be much better known.
