https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6520.My_Friend_Leonard
The act of memoir writing inherently produces meaning, but that’s not the same as manufacturing meaning, not the same as finding events (which possibly didn’t happen) to fit a pre-determined story.
That’s why memoirists often take repeated stabs at the same memory as they try to determine what really happened (and what it all meant).
When I read the opening about jail time (in Frey’s work) which readers now know didn’t happen, I decided to read this as a fictional memoir and see where it took me.
I picked up "My Friend Leonard" by James Frey.
What a lot of people didn't take into account is that "true" or "somewhat true" "A Million Little Pieces" was a great book.
The characters in Frey's books just kind of speak to you in a personal way.
James Frey is a better man for having a Leonard and he knows it.
I'm also glad he decided to share Leonard with me because it made me smile thinking that if a fuck up like James Frey could find a Leonard (real or not, something helped steer him towards life) than anyone can.
I never cared whether Frey's A Million Little Pieces was real or not.
The truth is, if you enjoy his writing style, you're sure to be caught up in the environment and especially the characters he creates.
I read this in one day on a flight from San Diego to Detroit.My Friend Leonard pretty much picks up where A Million Little Pieces left off.
If you thought it couldn't get any worse, think again.
My Friend Leonard follows Frey's post-rehab trials and tribulations, and examines the continuation of the relationship he began building with one of his contacts from rehab.
I normally would reserve the 5 star rating for a book that I think NOONE should miss...but I just have to give this book 5 stars.
Some people might like it, some people might think it is just okay.
I love Leonard.I cried harder at the end of this book than I have ever cried after a book or movie...maybe it's because I am a pregnant hormonal headcase right now...but I SOBBED.
Then I told my husband about it a couple of hours later and sobbed some more.I really love this book.
Years ago I read James Frey's ( now known as heavy on the fiction) memoir A Million Little Pieces as an Oprah Pick.
This is the sequel to that book which I bought years ago but after the scandal and fury heaped upon Frey and the denouncement of his first book, I probably just set aside.
Anyway , unearthed and read while " weeding out" the crowded library, this is the story of James and his friend Leonard, a much more established and successful conman who after meeting him in rehab (at the end of " Million Pieces" ) adopts him as a son.
Whether this book is fact or fiction does not mean crap to me, which was exactly my stance on  A Million Little Pieces.
It was just a good book.
His friendship with Leonard, albeit ridiculous, was very special and the stories in this book made me laugh and cry.
If you read A Million Little Pieces you already knew what Leonard's demise was, but that certainly didn't make it any less heart-breaking when it came around again.
I enjoyed this book and despite the controversy, I enjoy Frey as a writer.
I read A Million Little Pieces by James Frey and I liked it.
Yes in spite of all of this I enjoyed the story although it did make me think of Frey as kind of a pathetic douche.
The rest of the story is him trying to stay clean and "hold on." Leonard, the friend he made in rehab, features predominately.
It seemed like Frey was just trying to seem like a badass again who had rich powerful friends and hot chicks.
But My Friend Leonard is a blatant pack of lies.
**Frey also can't prove Leonard existed either...nothing at all.
I thought this one was so much more far-fetched than A Million Little Pieces. If I doubted Pieces, this one I downright didn't believe. Once again it should have been promoted as fiction, although actually I think it may have been promoted as such. I thought Pieces was better because it described so much struggling to get to where he got, and My Friend Leonard was pretty much "here I am, la-di-da" with good things happening all the time and a good ending and everyone is happy ever after. Totally unbelievable.
I know everyone gave Mr. Frey a whole lot of (probably deserved) shit for these two books of his, but I really enjoyed them.
I could even overlook that they were on Oprah's book club list (which I got a LOT of shit about from my generally hateful friends).
Since I'd heard about the inaccuracies in his first story - "A Million Little Pieces" - before reading either, I went in to each regarding them as works of total fiction.
The writing was gripping, to say the least and the character development in the book was great.
I cried several times reading both.Maybe I'm just a sap.
Not sure what possessed me to add a book to my "to read" list that has an ashtray on it. I didn't even get past the first chapter. Awful sophomoric writing in a robotic manner. Waste of my time.
From the ashtray on the cover to the chronic smoking that takes place by almost all of the characters, reading My Friend Leonard turned out to be an exercise in will power, if nothing else.
It just felt like he took the cheap way out and wrote another book on the tails of his last success, with no respect for good writing or his readers.
If you dig deep enough you will find a charming relationship between Frey and his friend Leonard, but this seemed ridiculous and hard to believe more often than not.
I finished this book with tears in my eyes...This book is sad, so sad and real. Although, I enjoyed million little pieced way more but I can't deny that I enjoyed this one as well.With James Frey it is never about the style... It is always about the courage, the courage to stand up naked in front of the world and tell a story of shame and failures.Lots of love for those who suffer from addiction all over the world. You have my sympathy, you will always do!
One hell of a bad book.
Yes it was a good story and there were some relatable moments on the temptations of addiction and recovery from it.
For what it was though I did like the story.
Who wouldn't want to hang out with a guy like Leonard and meet girls like Allison and Brooke?
The good-guy big ego responses of self determination and strength against temptation didn't seem human enough.
Frey got it right with the thought patterns of addiction in A Million Little Pieces but this one didn't have much past the Hollywood story which is done better in other places.
One of the best I've heard and I've heard a lot.The story picks up at the end of the a million little pieces.
What a life James lives!
And what a life Leonard lives as well!
sorry.The back stories about James love life is a bit of a bore - I have to say it.
Well-written but just not that compelling.I LOVED the story about the Sons of Cholo and Cassius and was heartbroken at his demise.My two favorite Leonard advice quotes?The secret to success in Hollywood:"Be Bold.
Be FUCKING BOLD!"What is the meaning of life?"Anything you want it to be, my son."---RIP Leonard.
It is distracting as you're reading to realize that the improbable parts are likely made up, and therefore detract from the authenticity of the reading experience.It's a good yarn, though you do come away from it feeling that the author is arrogant and must have been clouded by that arrogance if he thought people would find the book realistic.
I don't feel bad for the choices he made in his life, and overall come away feeling as though he's been a very selfish person, including in the writing of this book.The saddest part is, the REAL story probably would have been good enough.
Here are my "private notes" I made for myself like a zillion weeks ago when I actually read this book.
I though I'd have time to make them into an actual review, and maybe one day I will.
Here it's overdone and kind of cripples the prose, makes it plodding and harder to read, not musical like he clearly wants.
The story's good, and sad, but also maudlin and overdramatic and way too fairytale-is (if you can suspend your disbelief enough to call a story about recovering mobsters and suicidal women and despair and despair and despair fairytale-ish).
Not so good this time.
Did I cry with this book?
Yes. Would I have cried if I hadn't read "A Million Little Pieces" first?
Probably not.
The point is, I cried and you will too if you understand the depth of their relationship.
Frey's writing is a little distracting, especially since there are no "paragraphs," per se, and because he tends to have sentences that aren't completely sentences.
Either way, you eventually get into the story and the writing loses its grip on you.The story is one you have to have understood prior to reading the book.
My Friend Leonard features two unlikely companions, one a former junkie still mourning the death of the woman he loved, and the other a mobster whose life is like something out of a film.
However, appearances can be deceiving and Leonard might be covering up something that even a guy involved in organized crime might not be able to handle.
My Friend Leonard is a book that really allows readers to see people for who they really are, not just the bad choices they've made but who they are at the end of the day.
I loved "A Million Little Pieces" and was really nonplussed by the drama that ensued, when it turned out to be not quite a memoir.
My feeling was that it was a great book either way.
Who cares if he embellished?So imagine my surprise as I delved into "My Friend Leonard" and found myself unable to shake the feeling that I was being deceived.
I couldn't help but wonder, how much of what I was reading was the truth?Fortunately, the story and characters (particularly the glorious Leonard) were so engaging, I was able to move past my skepticism and let my hair down to a fantastic read.FYI, I cried like a baby.
My biggest misgiving is that I read this book before reading A Million Little Pieces.
I think my connection with and understanding of characters would have been deeper had I read the first part.
Regardless, I enjoyed this book.
The disconnected thoughts and his consciousness, that a lot of readers found troublesome, made it easier for me to connect with the protagonist.
But I have still given the book only 3 stars because the book did not have enough character development or details of his relationship with Leonard or Allison, for me to give it a higher rating.
this is such an amazing book. it was super entertaining and i *bawled* like a baby at the end. i hardly ever cry at a book. just fabulous, do yourself a favor and read it :D
I remeber reading this book and kept wanting more. It is not a romance book by far which it took me way out of my elements cause that is what I'm partial too. I'm glad I gave it a chance though.
This was definitely an interesting book. I couldn't really relate to the main character because of the difference in age and all his issues (which I fortunately don't have), but I did like his character. This book is almost non-fiction, but not entirely, since the writer changed some of the details about his life. This book was unlike any book I've ever read, and it really pushed me to broaden my horizons.
I thought I might have a hard time reading this book because of the writing style. Run on sentences, lack of punctuation and bad grammar at times. Put all that aside and I can honestly say Frey has captured me. This is a beautiful story of the journey though overcoming addiction, meaningful friendships and love. I am very inspired by the story that I simply could not put down. Well done, James Frey. Well done.
Things don't go as planned in James' life, as per usual, but he is consistently pulled through by the help of his friend Leonard - whether it's a chunk of change, a job that more than pays the bills, an evening on the town, or simply a shoulder to cry on, this book explores life after rehab and going down the 'right path' through the eyes of 'an Alcoholic, a drug Addict, and a Criminal.' The Good & The Bad: I won't lie, my book roulette may have skipped over this book once or twice in the past because I really didn't enjoy AMLP.
After reading the entirety of A Million Little Pieces, taking it in as a memoir, and loving every minute of it, only to find out the majority of the story was sheer fiction, I had trust issues with James Frey.
I had absolutely no thoughts in my head that this is was in any way an account of Frey's life.
The way James narrates changes gradually over the course of the book, along with his feelings, and the changes in his life.
The book seems to be more of a tribute to Leonard than anything else.I'd encourage you all to read A Million Little Pieces before getting into this one.
Apparently the time in jail and the people he met are largely fictitious but I get that he was trying to communicate a state of being as much as a situation.The book then goes on to document his life as he gets his shit together in the real world without the help of drugs and booze.
I found myself not really caring like I did when reading a million little pieces.
And even then he did actually.It’s a pity that the tribute to Leonard gets lost in the marvel that is James Frey’s recovery.
Despite the controversy, I liked it a lot & felt that James Frey was a good writer.
A few years later, I read Bright Shiny Morning, liked that one a lot, & felt justified in thinking that he was a good writer.
Yes, a little bit, because when you read something like this, you really start to root for the underdog & you start to feel like you really know the characters & you almost form a relationship with them.
True or not, James Frey is a good storyteller.
I honestly don't remember a lot of detail about Leonard in Frey's first book.
I read both this and Million Little Pieces back when the hoax was first revealed.
He first shopped Million Little Pieces as a novel and couldn't get it published, so decided to jump on the memoir fad gravy train.
Leonard is always there when Frey needs a friend, a job, some money.
He takes Frey and his friends out to lavish dinners, where everybody gorges themselves on food to make up for the booze and drugs they have sworn off of.
Leonard doesn't ask much in return.Remember that the vast majority of the characters in Frey's 'memoirs" have conveniently died or disappeared.
