https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2117764.Charlie_Chan_Carries_On
This was not one of Derr Biggers' best Charlie Chan books. The plot moves so slowly that by mid-point I was losing interest ... but then Charlie shows up and things begin to sparkle. I've grown to love that chubby little detective with the quick wit and quaint sayings, and wish he had been in on the case from the very beginning. Der Biggers portrays him well, and also does a very good job with his female characters. They're intelligent, level headed and believable. Even tho this is not a great Charlie Chan book, it's still worth a read.
Е, настоящата книжка, въпреки доста подвеждащото си заглавие, тъй като май само в открито море никой не умря, ще ви послужи като засищащо абстиненцията четиво, представящо, поне на мен, за първи път гениалния китайски детектив Чарли Чан, съумяващ въпреки джаба размерите си да спаси положението там, където вездесъщият Скотланд Ярд се проваля.
Зрелищно.Представете си мечтаното околосветско пътешествие, на което се запознавате с интересни хора, обикаляте невероятни места, ядете чудесни местни специалитети, а гледките са един път… докато в съседната стая не бива удушен един симпатичен старец, ненаправил нищо лошо в живота си.
Цената за някои неща е доста висока, и Чарли Чан е великолепния бирник, пред чиито присвити очички и източно привидно спокойствие наистина нищо не може да се измъкне, и от виновните, и от невинните.
Reread.
I grew up watching the old Charlie Chan movies with Sydney Toler, in fact I can vividly remember one evening involving a rather painful earache and the Shanghai Cobra, but it wasn't until recently that I actually read the books.
His stories set in Hawaii do this to a remarkable degree and while reading them I find myself wishing I could visit those days long since past.
The odd thing is that Charlie doesn't really even enter the picture until well into the book, meaning Biggers strayed somewhat from his usual formula and we get most of the story told from the perspective of scotland yard detective Duff.
#5 in the Charlie Chan series, and once again I'm very pleased with Earl Derr Biggers' writing style and his engaging sleuth.
I'm unsure of why Biggers decided to provide each murder mystery he penned with a "primary" secondary detective (a male character that is showcased almost 50% of the story) and a "secondary" primary detective (Charlie Chan), but it sometimes gets annoying that Charlie isn't the main driving force in these books.
A big thank you goes to my local library for purchasing the final 2 books in the Chan canon so that readers can rediscover this wonderful crime solver from the 1920's and 30's.Carry on, Charlie!
Duff (who Charlie Chan worked with in the previous novel to solve the case of a retired Scotland Yard Officer.
When he tries to meet up with the group in Hawaii he is shot (not killed) and Charlie Chan takes up the mantel of solving the crime right where Duff was stopped.
The interesting difference is how Chan interacts with the group, and pulls out more information that way.I imagine, if other books could have been written, that Duff and other characters from the previous stories would have been woven into future stories.
But there is an extra appreciation that comes from reading them in order, especially with Charlie Chan Carries On.Earl Derr Biggers made a bit of an experiment in this book, bringing back the Scotland Yard detective, Inspector Duff, who featured so prominently in Behind That Curtain and allowing him to dominate the first half of the mystery.
Those earlier novels, where Charlie worked hand in hand or even depended upon the high society White aristocrat are long gone.
One thing of note: the mention of the Great Depression for the first time makes its way into the pages of a Charlie Chan mystery.
Dit is een boek dat je leest in zwart-wit, zoals de Charlie Chan films.
Pas na meer dan de helft van het boek speelt Charlie Chan een actieve rol.
Het slechte engels (in nederlandse vertaling) en de karikatuur van de oosterse beleefdheid die Charlie Chan kenmerken zou vandaag niet meer getolereerd worden in deze poco wereld.
Maar zonder dit zouden deze detectives één van hun belangrijkste kenmerken verliezen en dan zou Charlie Chan niet de detective kunnen zijn die hij is.
Meesterlijk voor wie wil wegdromen met een spannend boek waar het tempo net zoals dat van zijn hoofdrolspeler eerder als gezapig kan omschreven worden.
This review is based on audio book narrated by James Langton.I followed him from Agatha Christie books.As a religious follower of audio books which I listen while working in the kitchen or working out at the gym, a good narrator is very important.James Langton is great!But a great narrator can only make a not very well written books go so far.This book is excellent!
I love Earl Derr Biggers writing style.
Charlie Chan is a loveable detective who is very humble and modest oriental style.I'm glad James Langton didn't try to fake an oriental accent!The story line, the plots are wonderful.
Fun. I remember loving the Charlie Chan movies when I was a kid, with Number One Son. Certainly the attitudes and language are somewhat dated, but the story holds together quite well. I was surprised at who dunnit, and found myself thinking it was several different people. My only annoyance is that the letter would naturally have given the name. Then again, if it had, the rest of the story would have been much shorter and very different, more a police procedural than a mystery, so I forgive him for that.
It starts rather slow but quickly picks up the pace... which also shows that investigations rarely are finished within days. The entire idea of different detectives carrying the investigations is also nice. Charlie Chan has a bit too little screen time, but Duff is also a good character... as are some of the supporting characters. The motive of the killer is quite easy to figure out but the riddle itself is interesting and it is resolved in a clever way.
This one starts out with a tourist group in London where a Detroit auto tycoon is found murdered, lying on his bed. Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard is on the case and travels with the group. About halfway through the book they reach Honolulu, Hawaii, where Charlie Chan joins them and takes over investigating.
Chan does it againThe book was good in the fact it keeps you guessing until the end. The only problem was Charlie Chan does not appear until half way through the book. That was disappointing.
Started out OK and then dragged badly, even for a 150 page novel. It felt like much of the second half was padding, and the author was needlessly delaying the solution, and meanwhile killing off/injuring too many characters.
Murders are being committed in almost every country in a Round the World Tour. Charlie doesn’t get involved until half way through the book though.
Enigmatico, un ottimo giallo alla Agatha Christie.
Charlie Chan compare solo verso la fine è si sente la sua mancanza.
Като за плажно крими става, макар и да не е с такава идея. Лека загадъчност имаше само.. и повече предвидимост.. тъй че като 3 звездички.
Charlie Chan is definitely back in this one, harkening back to the character I had enjoyed so much in the first and third books.
However, the mystery is a crackling good one with plenty of red herring clues, an assortment of distinct and memorable characters, and the most ruthless villain I've encountered so far in the series...a serial killer who would give some modern day counterparts a run for their money.Most of the early detection is handled by Inspector Duff who we met in the third book.
It is neck-and-neck as my favorite of the first five Charlie Chan books, and it was great having a beloved character back.
Although this is a Charlie Chan book, Charlie doesn't actually show up until the second-half of the book.
Rather, Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard, whom we met in Charlie's third adventure in San Francisco, is the major protagonist in the first-half of the book.
A member of a party on a round-the-world tour is murdered in a London hotel.
Inspector Duff investigates, but can't pin the crime on any of the members of the party and eventually has to let them continue on with the trip.
Charlie, of course, figures things out on the 6-day voyage from Hawaii to San Francisco.
Chief Inspector Duff is called to the Broome Hotel in London to investigate the murder of a kindly old gentleman, Hugh Drake, a member of a world tour led by Dr. Lofton.
Drake's granddaughter, Pamela Potter agrees to help Duff.
There are several suspects among those on the tour, which finally continues to the Riviera, where the next two murders take place.
Finally Duff goes to Honolulu to meet the ship and visit Charlie Chan.
As Duff is going to board the ship, he is shot at, and Charlie Chan takes his place on the ship to San Francisco, where finally the mystery is solved.
1930, #5 Charlie Chan, Honolulu, Hawaii; closed-community whodunit, very traditional, rather fun.
A murderer joins an already quite peculiar group on a world tour circa 1930, and no-one is safe, not even the detectives; considered the fifth Charlie Chan novel, although he doesn't appear until close to the end.
This fifth of six 'Charlie Chan Novels' to be lovingly and beautifully reprinted by Academy Chicago in softcover, takes us through many countries and several detectives, as a posh tour group on an around-the-world-cruise is bedeviled by a multiple murderer along the way, with Charlie Chan's Honolulu literally the last stop.
Под обложкой одного детектива следствие ведут сразу четыре инспектора. Кто-то из них падёт, кто-то окажется на пороге смерти, а кому-то удастся проявить чудеса изворотливости и буквально поймать преступника на его неосторожности. Убийство глухого старика проистекало от должных к тому причин, оно было обставлено весьма сомнительными обстоятельствами, зато дальнейший ход расследования оказался наполнен драматическими событиями. Посему Биггерса осталось похвалить — за создание Чарли Чана особенно.(c) Trounin
This book was very enjoyable, though Charlie Chan does not appear until halfway through the novel. A nice little detective story with good writing and likeable characters. This novel is written twenty years after the Fu Manchu novel, and Charlie Chan is our hero and very likeable but the way he speaks is still a long way from reality. These novels created new stereotypes, obviously a step forward from the portrayals in the Fu Manchu books, but still a long way to go.
Another fantastic Charlie Chan mystery! Charlie Chan Carries On was the fifth of the six original novels written by Charlie Chan creator Earl Derr Biggers, though it was the last one I read. I highly recommend any and all of the six Charlie Chan novels to anyone interested in curling up with a clever mystery.
While I got impatient for Charlie Chan to appear the story was Interesting . I was a bit surprised to find Chan speaking more of a pidgin English that he had he previous books. I wondered if Biggers had a movie in mind when he wrote the book since it involved a dozen exotic locations, lots of characters and a Sidney Toler type Chinese detective.
I love Charlie Chan. It is not at all what one would expect. This book was fun b/c of all of the many suspects and the characters from across the US. The Akron character was particularly entertaining.
Charlie Chan #5 .... and he doesn't show up until for quite some time.
Have read several times over the years. Never tire of the oldies but goodies. Have both paperback and hardcover pub. (1930) Grosset & Dunlap.
An entertaining book written in the 1920's. Biggs loosely based Charlie on a real Honolulu police detective,Chang Apana. This book is a refreshing step back in time.
