https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170171.Catalyst
jodi picoult's schtick is to just take whatever makes the headlines and structure a book around it.
(don't look at me, i'm not a spoiler bomb.) and yet, i still want to read more from her.
what am i finding so compelling about her books that i keep reading them?
i read them and it's eh and i grab another book and i never think of them again.
nah, but it's like a potato chip book.
i know i am not getting anything out of them, but that salt...it defeats me.i think it's great that the main female character in this is a total science nerd.
A girl smart enough to think she can get in to MIT but doesn't apply to any other schools.
A girl that smart, but who lies about applying to other schools.
A girl that smart, athletic, and strong enough of nerve to mouth off to a bully who takes on the entire football team, but doesn't apply to more than one college ...
Hmm. Doesn't fit for me.The aspect of the girl being a runner and one who often runs as a way to spend time thinking, was never explored properly or used efficiently.I liked being surprised that the little boy was actually the son (not the brother that we expected) of the female bully.
It isn't often that I give books I manage to finish reading one star, mainly I DNF at an earlier stage but with Catalyst, that was a different story.
Will say trigger warning for death as a young character does die towards the end of the story which was upsetting to read.
I couldn't connect with Kate or any of her fellow classmates, the plotline was disjointed and some of the actions undertaken by the main character Kate to be childish and questionable.
The ending was also abrupt leaving me with more questions than answers.
Very disappointed, will not be reading any more books by this author.
That was what my face looked like when I finished reading this book eight minutes ago.
What was Anderson thinking when she decided to write this book?
Maybe I'll write a book about a nerdy preacher daughter who really loves science and math.
Death--Fiction.Someone has to die.
And you might as well know now that it was the little 'brother'.I didn't mind the writing style at all.
There was a lot of moping around going on in this book.
I didn't even like Kate (she's stupid for only applying to one darn school) but i was ticked off for her.
This is just like that darn Twisted book.
I struggled reading this book. It was good at times. But for me it never seemed to reel me in. I was waiting and waiting and waiting to get engrossed in it. It never happened. When I read a book I don't want to have to use a bookmark. I want to read something that remembering the page that I am on is second nature. This wasn't one of those books for me.
The real story here is Teri's, but nobody tells it -- not Teri, not Kate, not Anderson herself.
Teri is the one with the story which drives the plot, but we're stuck listening to Kate; Melinda couldn't speak to the people around her in her own world, and so her voice, speaking directly to us, created a unique bond between the character and the readers.
Her story not only had a clear arc and well-defined end, there was a reason she was telling it, to us; the storytelling itself became part of the plot and theme, as it does with all good first-person novels.
This should be good!Me after reading:Why the hell did I even waste money on this book and WHY did I actually waste precious reading time to suffer through this garbage??Yep. It was that bad.And the thing is, I kept reading, mistakenly thinking that this would be one of those books that resolves everything in the last few pages and everything clicks by the end of the novel.
What I do know for sure is that this book was a pain to read, and unless you want to torture yourself and be trapped in the mind of Kate Whining Malone, you probably won't be a fan of this one.
This book is a work of terrible genius, but I can't go into too much detail because it will break me. Suffice it to say that it's brilliant and that it completely blindsided me and wrecked me emotionally in a way that no other book I've read has ever done.
In other words, Kate's narration sounds a lot like Melinda even though they are completely different characters.
That makes a difference.Ironically, the increased dialogue in this book (Melinda does not talk throughout most of hers) doesn't make the characters more developed.
This might be because Kate's social circle is larger, giving Anderson more characters to fit into the narrative.The other thing to bear in mind about Catalyst is that it is not the same kind of book as Speak.
(If you haven't guessed yet, Kate's path involves a lot of running.) This book also has a different appeal.
Meanwhile the rest of her life is going crazy as her neighbor's house burns down and the messed up family - including a really rough and tumble girl Kate doesn't get along with very well - move in with her.
But the book ends with Kate not really having dealt with a lot of the plot's conflicts, and not having learned very much.
Gah. I found this book at my house, but have no idea where it came from.
2.5 stars
I was all ready to put the book down, then something happened, and there was no way I could stop reading until the end.Catalyst tells the story of Kate, a senior chemistry geek, who is determined to attend M.I.T. She is so fixated on going to the school of her deceased mother that she applied no where else and did not tell anyone.
At the outset of the book, Kate is desperately waiting for a letter from the prestigious Cambridge school.
Kate is the kind of girl who not only feels like she needs to be perfect in school, but also has to take care of everyone around her.
"Catalyst" is a novel about Kate - high school senior who thinks she has all her life planned out and under control.
After a series of events, some catastrophic, some not that vital, Kate is forced to lower her "shield;" she finally starts to understand what is really important in life and faces her emotional issues.
Although I didn't come to understand Kate and Teri as much as I would like to (sometimes Anderson's writing is too subtle for me) and this book wasn't as focused as her other book I've read "Wintergirls", I enjoyed "Catalyst" enough to continue on reading this writer's other books.
The reason I write about this dream is because I had it last night, right after I read this book, and in so many ways it’s revealing to how I feel about it.
Now, please don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying Teri had no right to be angry—she had every right to be angry, but how is the way she dealt with that anger any better than a father who screams at his children and throws things because he’s a rageaholic?
Even though the author tried to make Kate stop running by having her help out Teri in the end, I didn’t feel like Kate did the right thing.
Having read and super liked Catalyst, I'm pretty sure I need to reread Speak soon.Speaking of Speak (which is published by Speak), Catalyst actually takes place in the very same high school, and Melinda makes a brief appearance.
I really love when authors reference previous works.Laurie Halse Anderson's writing makes me want to spin around Julie Andrews style because of how freaking wonderful it is.
Her writing here fits in perfectly with John Green's and A.S. King's, in the category of writing so good that it kind of makes me never want to write anything, since I can never be that good at putting things into words.Of course, Anderson does not merely excel at writing.
when you remember actively making the decision to stop reading a book, but then, upon accidentally rereading it, realize you've gone past the point of no return and now you have no choice but to see how this badboy plays out.sigh.just so you know, i'm most likely going to spoil this one.right, so Catalyst begins like most other laurie halse anderson novels - with a girl, angsty, and prone to teenaged histrionics.
kate also starts to tolerate teri by attaching herself to the adorable little brother mikey and working on rebuilding teri's charred home.
mikey isn't teri's brother; he's her son.
This novel is focused on the life of Kate Malone, a High School Senior who is a straight A student, long distance runner, daughter of the local minister, and new girlfriend to Mitchell “Early Decision Harvard” Pangborn.
Kate has also recently applied to MIT, her dream school.
Another thing that is bugging Kate right now, is that she hasn’t told anyone this was the only school she applied to.
Anderson does a great job in the novel developing suspense by using dramatic irony.
This quote is talking about how she applied to only MIT and didn’t tell anyone else about not having a back up school.
A quick read and engaging story that disappointingly ended without warning. As this YA book trips along, it lets us see more and more of its primary characters, warming us up to even the most prickly ones. But just as it's getting really good, the characters becoming real and sympathetic, it's over. A solid so-so.
Laurie Halse Anderson has become one of my favorite authors!Catalyst is about a girl named Kate Malone, the daughter of a preacher, and science whiz is school.
The book takes the reader through Kate's trials as she waits for a letter, any letter, from MIT.
Her neighbors are the dreaded Litch family.
Terri Litch is a large girl who is considered a bit of a bully.
Kate learns acceptance, tolerance, love, and friendship as she and Terri endure the worst of situations together.
It is really quite shocking.I would recommend this book to secondary readers without a doubt.
Great book!
This book was "okay" in the most okayest way possible.
There were so many things happening but somehow I couldn't bring myself to care about it.
I didn't like how LHA totally shifted halfway through the book.
It was like a book about college acceptance and a book about a child's death mashed together with no real correlation.
A lot of things happened that made me go "ok but why?" And finally I felt like there were too many things thrown in for shock factor like "ohh wait it's her son" "oh wait her dad is the father" and idk it just felt kind of cheap.
Like if we had focused on her, her son, her house, her college acceptance.
Speak was the very first novel I read by this author and though it was a good book, reading the reviews before I actually read it spoiled a lot of things for me, especially the main premise of the story. So, lesson learned, I skipped reading reviews until after I have finished reading the book. This is the reason why I love  Catalyst  more than Speak. Catalyst  is a story about Kate Malone who is about to graduate from high school and is hoping badly to be admitted to the only college she applie
Speak was the very first novel I read by this author and though it was a good book, reading the reviews before I actually read it spoiled a lot of things for me, especially the main premise of the story.
So, lesson learned, I skipped reading reviews until after I have finished reading the book.
more than Speak.
is a story about Kate Malone who is about to graduate from high school and is hoping badly to be admitted to the only college she applied to – MIT.
Because Kate is not as good as others see her.Continue reading.
"Catalyst" is about Kate Malone, the somewhat typical straight-A acheiving cross-country running unsatisfied daughter of a preacher.
Then, she runs into the ever so unfriendly neighbor girl Teri Litch.
That really mixes up the plot, and the story.While I enjoyed reading this book, it was no where close to as good as Laurie Halse Anderson's "Speak".
One of the really good things about this book was the plot, but at some points the execution of the character's wasn't as powerful as I thought they should've been.
I also thought the ending was a bit rushed, but it was still a pretty good read.

I really enjoyed this book. The narrator was witty but painfully realistic. Everything about this book was real and gritty. Some of the lines were just perfection. I can't think of any more words to describe this book because I loved it so much.Laurie Halse Anderson will always be one of my favorite authors.
Last night I dreamed that I was sitting in a gathering of people, waiting for my turn to get up and play my violin. There was a tall guy with dark hair speaking to the crowd, and a little fat blond girl sitting across the aisle from me who the tall guy called an idiot. This struck me wrong, so I told him to stop. Not just because he’d called the girl an idiot, but because he’d yelled it, said it in a mean and condescending way. Instead of listening, though, he slapped the girl on the head.I pic
Instead of listening, though, he slapped the girl on the head.I picked up my violin and left the room.The reason I write about this dream is because I had it last night, right after I read this book, and in so many ways it’s revealing to how I feel about it.
Even though the author tried to make Kate stop running by having her help out Teri in the end, I didn’t feel like Kate did the right thing.
She writes novels that are realistic and relatable, and she never sacrifices character development or an engaging plot for the sake of exploring the issue of the day.
This novel isn’t really about the story, it’s about Katie, and to a lesser extent, Teri.
It’s hard to connect the plots, in terms of events or themes - I guess you could say that both Katie and Teri have to move on from sort of disaster, but that’s not really the focus of Teri’s story.
Anderson does not disappoint. Believable characters, relationships, dialogue- complex and raw. I was surprised by the 'catalyst'- what an unexpected tragedy! After that event (no spoilers!) I couldn't stop reading until the very, most satisfying end. I removed one star because of some parts that I felt were too crude and unnecessary. Oh! And Melinda from 'Speak' makes an appearance! Made me smile.
Another Laurie Halse Anderson book i really enjoyed, i wasn't too impressed by Speak, but this (and Wintergirls) i really enjoyedI liked the writing style in this book. It was very interesting to see how the main characters mind worked, though she was annoying and the characters were pretty underdeveloped (and the connection to Speak was kinda pointless, but that's just a nitpick) this was a solid novel
Catalyst by Laurie Halse Anderson is the story of the perfect high school student Kate and how her life is turned upside down after her arch enemy Teri moves into her room after Teri’s house is destroyed by a fire.
Then her dream school, MIT, rejects her and she hasn’t applied to any other schools so Kate is left wondering “What do I do now?” Surprisingly, Kate and Teri grow closer as they are forced to hang out and help Teri fix up her house.
Kate learns from Teri that it's okay to relax and just go with the flow.
Teri and Kate become good friends and learn the importance of just living life and not having to plan out every step.
This was a Read-Or-Unhaul pick and I will be unhauling this one after all. I have really liked Anderson's other books, but I just couldn't get into this one. There is a very moving scene which explains some of the reactions of the characters, but several characters are just so selfish and whiny. Quick read, like this cover, but just not my kinda LHA book.
