https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33413.Apocryphal_Tales
Tht's why we must be the strongest force." Political expediency rears its ugly head also when Capek tackles Biblical times, always a thorny issue, and Pilates explains the facts of life to a young idealist: "Keep in mind, young man, the interests of our homeland take precedence over any law." Which brings me to the central theme of the whole collection, the monopoly religions claim over truth and the need for apocryphal tales and for men of vision who can transcend the ordinary and petty concerns of the few with an eye for the greater good of many.
When I finally got round to reading him I realised that here was a superb writer of satirical fantasy who was infused with a genuine feeling for humanity.
The science fiction writer Philip José Farmer wrote a series of stories he called 'Polytropical Paramyths' in which the events of real history were shown to be not quite what we have always believed.
There is kindness here as well as cleverness and irony.My favourite story in this collection is 'Ophir', which is a masterful fantasy that is also a magnificently ironic satire on gullibility and truth.

Just re-read this in English for the first time, and my long-ago astounded impression still stands: one of the greatest collections of fable-like satirical short tales of the 20th century, and perhaps of all time. Highly recommended, in any language.
Me llamó la atención el nombre del autor, esas consonantes con signos encima de ellas me han dejado buen sabor de boca.Después el título retador.
El formato de bolsillo y una edición de esas lindas, bonitas, de buen papel y buena impresión.Luego la contraportada que menciona algo del autor y su obra, una de ellas titulada R.U.R.
(Rossum's Universal Robots) "—donde se emplea por primera vez la palabra «robot» referida a autómatas mecánicos—".Y ya con eso era suficiente para captar toda mi atención.Luego, más abajo en esa misma contraportada viene la descripción de este libro "treinta relatos breves...
Long ago, when I had to write something saying 'If I was a work of art, I would be...', I chose to be the short story 'The Icon Smashers' in this book.
The more you know history, Homer, Shakespeare, and the Bible, the more you will appreciate 'Apocryphal Stories'.
You can consider it a kind of cultural driving test, if you like: if you don't 'get' a story in this book, go and find out stuff until you do, and when you are done you will be a properly educated member of Western Civilisation.
Einige Geschichten sind klug und witzig, andere nur klug. Die meisten unterhaltsam. Meine Favoriten sind Die Strafe des Prometheus, Von den fünf Broten, Kaiser Diokletian, Die Beichte des Don Juan, sowie Romeo und Julia. In jedem Fall beweist Capek wieder einmal, dass wir uns schämen sollten, seine Bücher nicht zu kennen.
Small sketches based on famous people or fictional characters, retold. I liked the Greek stuff; I loved the Shakespeare; I was completely confused by the Bible material (no frame of reference). The author clearly has a great mind, but the pieces are limited vignettes. I want to try a novel next.
Compilation of short stories focused on the various famous real or fictional people and their dealing with particular moral dilemma, which rose around them. The inspiration was taken from Bible, Greek myths or Shakespeare and even some real historical event were put in display.
This was a reread for me. While this is not my favorite work of his, Capek is still amazing.
Neste texto, gostaria de discutir um outro Čapek: o contista genial.Em Histórias Apócrifas (Editora 34, 1994; tradução de Aleksandar Jovanovic), Čapek brinda-nos com questionamentos como que às margens de histórias muito conhecidas: como teria sido a noite de Pilatos após a crucificação de Cristo?
O que um casal de “vovós da caverna” temeria em relação às modernidades?O recurso de usar o passado para refletir acerca do presente não é exclusividade de Čapek.
Não apenas rir, naturalmente: o grande autor tcheco é mestre em usar o humor para fazer pensar.Por Luiz BudantÍntegra da resenha em: http://www.aescotilha.com.br/literatu...
é como se um monge beneditino resolvesse escrever esquetes do monty python.
If not for the world war 2 days, Karel would have been far more celebrated than he is now. A fantastic read.
Εκπληκτική ιδέα, εκπληκτική γραφή. Τέσσερα και όχι πέντε γιατί οι ιστορίες προς το τέλος είναι πιο αδύναμες και χαλάει λίγο την τρομερή του αρχή.
Jako bych stála vedle Lota a cítila tu tíhu, kterou nesl, když se dozvěděl, že jeho lidé v Sodomě budou vyhlazeni, nebo jak to mohlo vypadat, když se Josef s Marií potřebovali ubytovat na noc v Betlémě.. V knize ale nejsou jen "přepisy" biblických příběhů. Čapek používá přechodníky a další archaické způsoby a výrazy v psaní, proto čtení není tak jednoduché. Přesto se mi apokryfy moc líbí a jen je to má další kniha v řadě přečtených Čapkových děl.

Krásná, svěží knížka popisuje známé historické události, biblické příběhy a literární postavy.
Jejich příběhy si však Karel Čapek vyložil a převyprávěl po svém.
Musím se přiznat, že už před třetím, čtvrtým apokryfem, jsem si vždy nejprve vyhledal danou historickou nebo biblickou událost na internetu, abych byl při čtení schopen poznat hranici mezi historickou skutečností a autorovou „básnickou“ licencí.
Příběhy mě tak obohatily hned dvakrát: jednak jsem si znovu osvěžil fakta, která jsem od školních let drobet pozapomněl, a jednak jsem se při krásném čtení příjemně bavil.
Na rozdíl od cestopisu Italské listy, které jsem nedávno také četl, mi tato knížka Karla Čapka připadá nadčasová.
A great little collection of short stories from one of the best Czech authors ever to beThis is a collection of brief short stories, newspaper articles, and other (as the name suggests) apocrypha from Karel Čapek.
It reads quickly, and the stories tend towards parable.
As Čapek writes, though, it's never ham-fisted or obvious or mundane.
Get a map of Prague to cross-reference the references to streets and addresses mentioned in the stories.
It gives a sense of the geography of the world which Čapek and his characters inhabited.If you need a plug from someone whose curatory prowess is greater than mine, one of these tales was included in the "Home" edition of Lapham's Quarterly.

quote: "Cleverness is usually cruel, malicious and selfish; it seeks a weakness in its neighbor and exploits it for its own gain; it leads to success. [...:] Reason is frequently cruel to man, but it is true to its intentions; it seeks to profit everyone ..." - pg.35 Agathon, or Concerning Wisdom
very interesting little book, taking tales from mythology and ancient literature and retelling them through a symbolic filter that makes them all into commentary on Czech politics and society. a great operational concept, and one that really pays off. the translation i read was fairly poor, but the stories were great.
What a strange little book. I read this for Jen's Olympic game, and it's a collection of fable-like tales, each only about 3-4 pages long, on a wide range of topics that stretch from Achilles to Pilate to Romeo and Juliet to the present. Some are thought-provoking (I imagine all are meant to be), some amusing, but some just seem kind of silly. At least it was an easy read.
These tales were fun to read. The characters were well known historical and mythological figures, and these tales were a twisted version of their original stories. I especially liked the Romeo and Juliet tale and the Archimedes tale.
Попаднах на книга с кратки афоризми на известен чешки автор. Не бях запозната с негови творби, но сега вече знам, че ако отново го засека някъде, ще прочета написаното. След всеки кратък разказ се замислях над написаното. Много ми допадна начина на писане.
Great fun .
Coletânea de narrativas curtas que, em forma de paródias cheias de humor e ironia, dão novos significados aos grandes marcos - literários, históricos e religiosos - fundadores da cultura ocidental.
Kniha se mi moc líbila a mohu ji vřele doporučit. Více se můžete dočíst zde: http://iwikovaknihovna.blogspot.cz/20...
Una buena colección de relatos escritos con maestría y fina ironía que además normaliza algunos de los grandes clásicos.
Me encanto. Es un libro que da el punto de vista y los pensamientos de personajes históricos y literarios.
Krásná kniha s krásnými ilustracemi. Čapek byl génius. Nádherné jsou tři příběhy s Pilátem Pontským, Obrazoborectví a O úpadku doby.
