https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1032618.Principles_of_Art_History
One day the German edition will come in my hands and I will be able to tell whether Wölfflin's translator merited assassination.
More than likely, here we have just another case of an arrogant German professor indulgence in wilful obfuscation.
This is a difficult read, and not just because of HW's turgid writing style.
It was only in the last chapters that I could reliably apply Wölfflin's categories to the example objects.
(By then I had a self supporting repertoire to call on, plus the weight of 200 pages of illustrations and explanation.) Just the same: an important work, and one worth reading.
Can I actually claim that I read this? I was lulled into a torpor by selections from the work.
Once you are able to get past the infuriating early style of writing it can get interesting.
If you have ever taken an art history class or studio art class this book takes all the basic concepts of style and dresses them up in ridiculous language.
The overall concept of the book is art history (from Early Renaissance to the Baroque) stripped down to stylistic developments with no regard for cultural or historical interpretations.
Although this book is considered to be the quintessential book of art history it is in desperate need of some revision for the twenty first century reader.
If you have no serious interest in art history, do not read this.
It's not very enthralling.
If you are interested in art history then take a look t this book and it may very well lend you a new way of thinking about art.
You can imagine how hard it would be to invent categories in art that never existed before and that must apply across the board of all art in the selected time periods (renaissance and baroque).
A warning to say that his methods do not particularly work well for modern art.
Somewhat dry but a useful tool.
Essential for everyone who's trying to up their art game.
В предисловии Генрих Вельфлин, швейцарский искусствовед, манифестирует свой стиль как «история искусств без имен». Он пишет: «Самое оригинальное дарование не может перешагнуть определенных границ, поставленных ему датой рождения. В каждую данную эпоху осуществимы лишь определенные возможности, и определенные мысли могут родиться лишь на определенных ступенях развития». Вот, думаю я, та книга, которую хотел прочесть — меткая и без сентиментальных жизнеописаний художников. Но вот беда, последующие за предисловие четыреста страниц, Вельфлин разбирает формообразование картин, скульптур и строений вполне конкретных авторов, а на вопрос почему формы были такими, а стали другими этот анализ не отвечает. На мой вкус скучновато.
Before you start, know that this isn't a light, charming pleasure read. His language is highly formal (perhaps it's the translation). After reading this for the first time, I can vouch that this is a book for referencing after you've read it more than once. Personally, I read it because an advisor was shocked that I hadn't. Great book for the serious art history student to read more than once and impressively reference in papers.
Hurray esotericism!!!
There is a reason that many people balk at written books written in the early 1900s. This book is the embodiment of all of those reasons.
Interesting, if a little dry... it is a textbook after all. Did not read cover to cover and will probably pick this up again at a later point.
art,history
