https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209097.Natural_Right_and_History
از کتابهای بسیار مهم و جدی لئو اشتراس است. خوشبختانه دو سال پیش پس از سالها دوباره تجدید چاپ شد. بسیاری از اصول بنیادی تاریخنگاری فلسفه سیاسی اشتراس مانند نقد پیشرفتگرایی و نقد تاریخیگری و انتقاد جدی از علوم اجتماعی مدرن در این کتاب بیان میشود. تنها میماند ترجمه آن. باقر پرهام از مترجمان باسابقه کشور است. اما برخی اوقات کارهای میکند که واقعا قابل درک نیست. مثلا برخی از ارجاعات را حذف کرده و در یکی از پانوشتهای مقدمه کتاب نوشته:«نام و مشخصات کتاب ها، و برخی توضیحات دیگر در این فهرست، که دانستن یا
بسیاری از اصول بنیادی تاریخ‌نگاری فلسفه سیاسی اشتراس مانند نقد پیشرفت‌گرایی و نقد تاریخی‌گری و انتقاد جدی از علوم اجتماعی مدرن در این کتاب بیان می‌شود.
مثلا برخی از ارجاعات را حذف کرده و در یکی از پانوشت‌های مقدمه کتاب نوشته:«نام و مشخصات کتاب ها، و برخی توضیحات دیگر در این فهرست، که دانستن یا ندانستن آنها برای خواننده فارسی زبان ناآشنا به زبان های بیگانه سودی نداشت، به فارسی برگردانده نشده است.»این حس خودبرتر پنداری و جاهل تصور کردن مخاطب برایم قابل قبول نیست!
به هر حال همین که کتاب را ترجمه کرده باید از ایشان تشکر کرد!
our ultimate principle have no other support than our arbitrary and hence blind preferences" (Natural Right and History, 4).Strauss then takes the reader from the classical natural right Plato and Aristotle (and St. Thomas), to the rejection by Hobbes and Locke.
He says in the preface of the seventh impression of Natural Right and History that he has not been shaken from his “inclination to prefer ‘natural right,’ especially in its classical from, to the reigning relativist, politivist or historicist.” An “inclination to prefer” is by no means an acceptance of something especially when one prefers it to other things.
Here I’ll make mention of a second major theme for Strauss, the so called “theological-political problem,” which I take to mean that philosophy must find a way to accommodate itself to religious belief without being ruled by it.
Modern political philosophy emerged because classical political philosophy was no longer effectively handling this problem: the moderns, in their attempt to restore philosophical guidance and moderation to society, worked to radically undermine the influence of religion.
(But of course, Modern political philosophy, from the perspective of Strauss’s theological political problem, leaves itself open to the charge of failing to accommodate itself to religious belief.) This brings us to another major theme for Strauss, “Athens vs.
Thank God for my admittedly weak knowledge of classical thought which allowed me to fake my way, plod I should say through the early chapter, which were , essential to his overall work.Strauss’ treatment of Hobbes and Locke’s positions on natural right were a welcome respite for my brain as I’m more comfortable in their thinking but still, the author’s overpowering explanations and tying together of those two thinkers was a challenging yet enjoyable review and explanation that enhanced my understanding of them.
He ends with a wonderful and concise piece on Burke who argued for a more “prudent” vision and interpretation of natural right.
This "we need it or else" approach is not particularly convincing as it leads to suspect assertions about its foundations -- God gave us natural right; it's part of the rational order of the universe or our human nature (in spite of our obviously self-oriented nature).
Strauss contrasts this with the modern natural right theory of Hobbes and Locke who focused on "man's" need for survival and the pursuit of happiness, and where each had an equal right to such pursuits.
Here natural law was based on self preservation and passion, the beginning of behavior, and not on the End (perfection of rationality).Strauss's distinction between the beginning and end of "man" is artificial.
While I happen to disagree with Strauss' reading of most of the thinkers that are discussed in this work I would recommend reading this to anyone interested in political philosophy, with a good grasp of the western tradition.
In a more specific sense, this work offers a unique and nuanced critique of historicism through a geneology of the ancient and modern traditions of natural right.
The work does not provide a comprehensive solution to natural right, but it does show the way in which the classical Socratic orientation within political philosophy has not been rendered superfluous by the modern tradition.

Unbelievable. I am not smart enough to read books like this. :)
Strauss is a deeply influential scholar whose readings of various philosophers and thinkers remain the "traditional" reading across curricula.
While he is dated, Strauss was an important figure in the history of the history of ideas, and for this is rich analysis (though perhaps cliched today) should leave us grateful for his work.What remains most interesting about this particular lecture series is Strauss' critique of Weberian methodology, arguing that Weber's absolute fact/value distinction can only lead to nihilism.
Strauss' reflections on scholarly methods and epistemologies is an important voice especially for a philosophy of the social sciences, even if he does reek a little of objectivism.
Um dos livros mais importantes que eu já li. O livro representa uma narrativa histórica da sucessão de escolas históricas ao longo do tempo, focando na relação entre o princípio filosófico e sua concepção sobre o direito natural. Fundamental para quem já leu Platão, Aristóteles, Maquiavel, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Weber e Nietzche.
The cover shown here is not the cover of my volume.
This was a meaningless wordy book. When I have time I will provide some quotes.
Gives a particularly good short summary of Edmund Burke's unique political views in the last chapter.
An excellent guide to political philosophy, though Strauss does insist on a very hard division between the ancients and the moderns
A very interesting but also complicated book that explains the roots of natural right and political philosophy. I have taken a lot of notes from this book, but still think I didn’t fully understand it. Might have to read it again.
Strauss then goes over how Hobbes and Locke reformulated natural rights according to the pleasant and the particular.
Lastly, Strauss examines how Rosseau and Burke problematize modern natural rights such that historicism follows in their wake.Whereas the ancients grounded natural rights in man's natural and knowable obligations, the moderns either ground natural rights in the individual's own feelings or deny that it can be theoretically expressed well.
As long as governments follow the poor theories of Locke and Hobbes, their citizens will be denied the most basic of rights: knowing what civil life is meant to be and what it cannot be.
Strauss gives a detailed and spirited reading of the history of natural right and natural law.
A lot of his readings of classic and modern philosophers are contentious (e.g. this book contains several well argued cases for esoteric readings of Locke and Rousseau), but Strauss offers the most thorough citations I have ever seen.
As with most of his work, Strauss keeps his cards close to his chest and writes with the "caution" that he observes in Locke.
(Strauss' caution did not prevent the posthumous campaigns against him.)I wish he'd written about Marx, and I wish he'd looked at Talmudic conceptions of law, rather than only Christian understandings of Biblical law and revelation.
Strauss packages a history of civil society to be a progression without history, even without theory, to level the truth of 'an otherwise unarticulated situation' in which war and conquest are given natural attributes and simplistic inclinations like 'the pursuit of happiness.' The thrust of his analysis gains form in the final chapter to be an ennobling of ad hominem argumentation that (against Rousseau) defers to suppress theories of natural right.
Strauss says there are no natural rights, and no natural law - a move which means there are no natives.
He's clearly a pretty smart guy worth reading.
Dismisses a lot of the best counterarguments to his with waves of the hand, and the whole "This guy said the sky was blue, but he also said the sky was red, so he must have meant that the sky was purple" reasoning style gets a bit tedious and predictable at times.
He spends too much time taking apart people that he disagrees with by honing in on minor points, but bends over backwards to accomodate people that jibe with him.
I read once that he adopted a conservative position mainly because the academic world is so liberal.
Eigenlijk niet meer dan een geschiedenis van antwoorden op de vraag wat de aard van de menselijke samenleving is. De lijnen die Strauss schetst, zijn scherp en prikkelend. Wat mij verraste, was dat Strauss in Burke een (quasi-)historist zag. Op die visie valt aardig wat af te dingen, toch geeft het te denken over de rol van geschiedenis in de politieke filosofie en de rol van traditie in het conservatisme.
An unconventional history of philosophy. Starts with a rejection of historicism and positivism, followed by an explanation of classical natural right. Ends with a detailed analysis of Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, and Burke, arguing that the logic of modern philosophy consumed natural right, ultimately replacing 'nature' with 'history'.
Strauss goes into a lot with this book, and it may in-fact present the crux of his entire argument. Here he covers the fact/value distinction, the discovery of "nature," historicism and positivism, and most importanly, the distinction between classical and modern natural right.
I love this book. It should be read by those empiricists who deny the existence of anything you cannot detect by your senses. There is a natural law and Strauss proves it in easily understandable language.
An extraordinary book. There is no way of choosing a certain number of stars for it.
Leo Strauss had a significant impact on my way of thinking about political science and philosophy
An amazing mind. Awesome entry point to slice into some of the most important questions in political philosophy.
this is not an easy book to understand but it is very powerful
Strauss's main argument is that natural right was misunderstood by Christianity/modernity. Ultimately, I think he sees natural right as something only discoverable only by human reason.
tahun ini kudu dibaca beneran, gak boleh diskimming lagi. targetnya akhir tahun. :D
Natural Right and History
