https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34189556-the-wife-between-us
Trust me to be wearing my detective glasses at the exact moment I really needed to be surprised.The Wife Between Us basically introduces itself in the blurb as a book full of twists.
A big chunk of the plot is fairly quiet and uneventful, which means a lot hangs on that moment of thrilling shock one should experience as the authors pull out their surprises.
It's not a book that survives very well on its own if you happen to figure out the truth.And I did.
This is hands down the twistiest, fastest, funnest-to-read domestic suspense in ages!Unreliable narrator?
Unlike all the other domestic noir books that claim to be the next Gone Girl, THE WIFE BETWEEN US actually IS the next book that people will go crazy over.
I'm so excited, I wish it were coming out before January, because I cannot wait for you and everyone I know to read it!This is actually a very simple storyline, you've heard it before.
I'm grateful to the folks at Netgalley for the opportunity to read and review it months ahead of publication.THIS BOOK IS LIT!
2.5 starsI know I am probably going to get beat up for this, but here goes nothing….Secrets, lies, and a whole lot of over-the-top twists make up The Wife Between Us. This was a fun and entertaining read, but in the end it wasn’t the right book for me.
And that final twist?!
I am often overly critical when it comes to thrillers, so I would recommend that you read  The Wife Between Us and judge for yourself!I would have given this one star, but bumped up my rating as I was completely captivated and entertained by the first half.I received a copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...All the stars!!It was the cover that first caught my eye. I loved it. And after reading the description for this novel, I couldn’t wait to read it.As the book opens, a woman is unaware that someone is watching her. That someone is out to ruin her. “She is oblivious to what I have done to her” NELLIE can’t talk about the night that began with drinks and laughter, but ended with police and despair.But now Nellie feels safe wit
NELLIE can’t talk about the night that began with drinks and laughter, but ended with police and despair.But now Nellie feels safe with Richard.
Richard is loving, caring, and protective.
Richard tells her not to worry, but it’s starting to make her anxious.Nellie had come to New York to escape.She loves her job at The Learning Ladder.
Richard really is the best thing that ever happened to Nellie.
I really appreciate when a story is able to blindside me like that.“The Wife Between Us” is a twisted and complex psychological suspense novel.
what will happen?every time i read a review where a book is “praised” as being "compulsively readable," i roll my eyes.
and along the way, there are a couple of lumps in the pudding - not enough to ruin the taste, but enough to make you pause and say “hmmmm,” and try to figure out what those lumps signify, and i, for one, did not figure it out until the authors wanted me to figure it out.
Vanessa Thompson is a divorced woman who is barely managing to keep herself together and her days off from her job at Saks endanger her employment.
Vanessa used to be married to the wealthy Richard, a good looking hedge fund manager.
The end of her marriage has left her floundering as she wonders about the effects of fertility medication, her failure to be the ideal wife, and haunted by events that happened to her when she was at college.What pierces Vanessa's alcoholic haze is the shocking news that Richard is planning to remarry.
Something she has no intention of letting happen as she embarks on a crusade.
My favorite thriller of 2017WOWOWOWOWOWI am leaving my first impression above because it still fits how I am feeling several hours after finishing this book.
I already have a book hangover from this because my next book is not written nearly as well.
This was written by two authors, and I have no idea how they did it because it's seamless.
This is a book you will want to discuss with all your book friends once you finish, so please read it and discuss with me!
I hope beyond hope that these two authors write together again.
Thanks to the authors, the publisher, and Goodreads, for the complimentary copy.
I had no idea what this book was about, and this book has lots of twists and turns that are full of surprises.
The twists and turns make this book so much fun.I suggest you go into this book blindly and hope you get the same surprises as I did.
I am using the blurb as my review because I think its perfect for this book, and then I will put down my thoughts.
I found this psychological thriller to be very addicting once I got to the suspense.
I could not put it down and kept wondering what was going to happen next.
ZERO SPOILERS!!!!!I personally think it must have been a ‘KICK-OF-FUN’ for authors Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen to collaborate together.
Think of ‘all’ the characters in the story - including names I haven’t mentioned as your puzzle pieces.
The enjoyment of reading psychological suspense novels, often has more to do with the ‘game’ of piecing the ‘story-puzzle’ together than the specifics of the story itself.
as it feed into my thoughts of “the hurried child”.I’m not thrilled with stereotyping the wealthy parents/ low paying teacher themes in our fiction books too much....
even though I’m aware it’s true.
The cover was intriguing; the reception of my Goodreads friends astonishing, and the synopsis made me assuming theories even before I had the change to read the first line.Generally speaking, the story deals with two young women, an ex-wife and a bride to be.
You’d better go into it, knowing as less as possible.To continue with my reading experience, some may thing that the first part of the story was a little bit dragged but it was essential for the writers to construct the background of the main characters and lead to the main plot twist.
I am just speechless!
There are so many twists, I was seeing double!
My head was spinning and I went back to re-read several parts to “make sure” I read what I thought I read.
I need a lifeline….can I call a friend?Meet Vanessa, the ex-wife with issues.
She is young and pretty just like her former self and Vanessa is having a hard time dealing with reality!
Richard is the handsome, but controlling husband.
What are Richard's motives?Vanessa is determined to stop Richard’s marriage from happening and nothing will stop her.Even if your detective skills are top-notch, you will be hood-winked.
Forced to live with her aunt and take a job at Saks, Vanessa’s thinks obsessively about Richard’s new girlfriend, Nellie, while consuming large quantities of alcohol.
Nellie, by all appearances, seems like a sweet girl, perhaps a bit naïve, completely smitten with her fiancé, Richard.
She can’t wait to start her new, ‘dream come true' life with her dashing, successful husband.
But, unbeknownst to Nellie, she is being watched, even stalked by a woman whose driving force in life is to prevent her wedding from ever taking place.
The majority of this book is the main character Vanessa having flashbacks of her marriage with Richard and how "omg he was so perfect then" and "omg where did it all go wrong?" and it was so boring.
(view spoiler)[Like omg so you're telling me Nellie is actually Vanessa the entire time, and Nellie's parts were all just flashbacks of the beginning of her marriage with Richard?
At the end of the day this is just another one of those stories where (view spoiler)[the main character Vanessa marries a man and he turns into this crazy, abusive asshole out of nowhere, and then she tries to escape from him.
When you read a very hyped up thriller and just end up disappointed. I'm not going to give away any of the storyline because it is one that you just have to read. When I started this book I was over the top excited...because it does start off so very good.Then for some stupid reason the book gods that hate me stepped in and decided to make this a total story twist overload. Every frigging wife book doesn't have to be stupid Gone Girl. (I hated that shit too.)Just make some crazy married peoples
When you read a very hyped up thriller and just end up disappointed.
When I started this book I was over the top excited...because it does start off so very good.Then for some stupid reason the book gods that hate me stepped in and decided to make this a total story twist overload.
Every frigging wife book doesn't have to be stupid Gone Girl.
BECAUSE IT DOES NOT...but I couldn't stop reading the thing.Now for the trolls that for some unholy reason will feel the need to troll this vague ass review.
Another thriller, another meh review.This book follows an ex-wife obsessed by her replacement...
or so you'll think.
The book did contains some twists I didn't see coming but I can't say I cared...
Contrary to the other reviews, I don't think this book will blow your mind.
It was another domestic thriller with a drinking non reliable woman.
It's now so common, it's straight up boring.
I'm literally wondering if we read the same book.If you're going to read it, I recommend the audiobook since it made the experience more enjoyable.
I'm not sure I would have finished it otherwise!
I know I’ve come across a great read!
This fantastic new release by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen did just that for me!
Once you start, you won’t want to put this one down!
A great collaboration from Ms. Hendricks and Ms. Pekkanen.
Can’t wait for their next release!!A wonderful Traveling Sister Read with Brenda, Norma, Lindsay and Susanne!Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press and Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen for an ARC of this novel to read and review.For this review and our Full Traveling Sister review please visit Norma and Brenda’s fabulous book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Just a few more days to enter my giveaway!GIVEAWAY💙 12/15/17 - I have not one, not two but THREE copies of The Wife Between Us to giveaway!
You can enter on my blog here .____________Engrossing and addictive, this little gem of a thriller with a major twist had me second guessing every character and I loved every moment of it!This is one of those books that is unputdownable – you will be thinking of the characters when you’re not reading and wondering how it will all pan out.
This is a well written, fast-paced story that will keep you guessing all the way to the epilogue.
When I read a book, there is something satisfying about being able to figure out the mystery before the big reveal. And there is something even more satisfying about being completely flummoxed as to what just happened. This was my reaction upon reaching the conclusion: Step by Step Instructions For Reading This Book  1. Find a Comfy Chair 2. Maybe make a cup of tea or cocoa 3. Abandon all hope that you will get anything else done today. You won't want to. Your eyes are going to be glued to this
When I read a book, there is something satisfying about being able to figure out the mystery before the big reveal.
And there is something even more satisfying about being completely flummoxed as to what just happened.
This was my reaction upon reaching the conclusion:
Step by Step Instructions For Reading This Book
1. Find a Comfy Chair 2.
Maybe make a cup of tea or cocoa 3.
Abandon all hope that you will get anything else done today.
Your eyes are going to be glued to this thriller.
I read a lot..
and I also read a lot of thrillers.
This thriller had a twist that made me think three things, explanations that jumped fast around inside my head, irritating the hell out of the blister: Either I was an absolute dummy, or I had meandered into the Twilight Zone, or the publisher (or editor) had made a mistake that was mammoth and unforgiveable.
For this sitter to actually pace in the middle of reading a book is an unheard-of event.
I had pretty much settled on the idea that of the three possibilities, I was a dummy, unfit to handle a twist in a stupid book (because by this time, I was defensively calling the book “stupid”).6.
I recommend this book because of all the twists.
Who’s to blame for the marriage ending and what role do the others have in this story?I went in to this book super excited after reading multiple rave reviews about it from friends on Goodreads.
It seemed like everyone was loving it, so I went straight to NetGalley and put in my request.
It was like I wanted to get to the ending to see how things would unfold, but there simply wasn’t anything going on to captivate me.
At times, I felt like there was too much information and in other places, simply not enough.
is a story about a jilted wife jealous of her husband's new fiancée, you're not quite right.
It's also a story about trust, fear, truth, manipulation, and finding your own way.Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen throw a lot of twists into this book, which is why my description is fairly spartan, because I don't want to spoil anything for you.
Every time you think you have things figured out, they swerve again, so you definitely want to keep reading, to see where it all winds up.There are a lot of thrillers out there these days, and many of them deal with relationships that don't go as planned, and the aftermath of breakups, as well as the manipulation that often occurs within a relationship.
Piercing eyes locked in.......trying to make sense of what has just transpired.Like the unsettled feeling of reclaiming your own wine glass in a sea of abandoned stemware left willy nilly on a crowded bar.
Or was it simply that wine glass that beckoned to be constantly refilled?Startling news drifts in Vanessa's direction as the realization comes that Richard is to be remarried soon.
One thing that Vanessa knows for sure is that that is not going to happen.
One way or another.Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen present a storyline carved out with mega twists and turns.
This is an excellent thriller!The main character is a woman whose wealthy and attractive husband Richard has left her for a younger woman.
Then she learns that her ex-husband plans to marry again and this is where the book starts.
Also recommend it to lovers of contemporary fiction.FINAL NOTE: the novel has already been optioned for a movie.Thanks to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press, and the authors for providing me with a copy of this publication in exchange for an honest review.MORE INFORMATION:✔ Watch the book trailer here✔ Watch an interview with the authors (no spoilers)
4.5 stars rounded up to 5 stars!This book was an entertaining read that was extremely enjoyable and hard for me to put down! It is definitely going into my favourite reads shelf! It's chilling, gripping, intense, and filled with so many unexpected twists and turns that will keep you guessing right until that cleverly written surprise ending! Would recommend!Blog Tour Post and full Traveling Sisters Review can be found on our sister blog:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/
THE WIFE BETWEEN US is exceptionally creative and SO MUCH MORE!Then....confusion set in (for 2 minutes) BUT I soon found it was all part of the author's elaborate scheme to set up the reader, SO.....if you gave up along the way, you just may want to pick up where you left off because (for me) THE WIFE BETWEEN US is a winner of a debut.....YES, a debut!I'll not give anything away, but will say "ASSUME NOTHING"....the plot twists are remarkable, and when the story was over, I was left with a big fat smile of satisfaction on my face.Wow!
Many of my Goodreads friends raved about this book. Well, I’m the odd one out. I was enjoying this for awhile, but then confusion set in for a good portion of the book, and I just simply wasn’t enjoying it anymore.However, thank you to NetGalley and St.Martins Press for the ARC.
This is the next best seller.“The Wife Between Us” is compelling and absolutely riveting.
I couldn’t get enough of the characters, especially of Vanessa, her angst, her needs and her fears.
And just like the mouse, I got trapped.
Trapped in the most idiosyncratic read ever.
“The Wife Between Us” by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen is a phenomenal psychological thriller.
We had the absolute best time reading this book together.
Thanks for including me sisters!The full Traveling Sister Group Review can be found on Norma and Brenda’s fabulous blog: https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
I didn’t read anything by each of these authors but the combination of their work was wonderful!
I hope they work on other stories with each other!
When I started reading the last chapter of the first part (at the time I had made some highlights and had even made up my mind for my review), I couldn’t believe what my eyes/brain are reading!
I came back and read it again!
I couldn’t put it down and this story is one of those that I liked its ending!
Twisty-turny the whole way through!!!Well, I am LATE to the party on this one, fellow readers!
I feel like the last person on earth to read this book, but it was calling to me from my pile beside my desk and I just had to take a break from review copies.
I'm so glad I did!
You always wonder if it is possible for the book to live up to the hype, but this one definitely did!!
There's a reason it is a best seller.
Vanessa is trying to rebuild her life --her marriage has ended and she is living with
I feel like the last person on earth to read this book, but it was calling to me from my pile beside my desk and I just had to take a break from review copies.
The twists are dropped on you like bombshells, and you'll find yourself paging backwards to make sure you read what you thought you just did!!!I love the way Greer and Sarah write--they don't hit you in the face with the revelations.
And people that seem broken are often much stronger for what they went through than most will ever know.I will happily read anything by these two awesome women.
After that initial shock we started questioning how the authors were going to pull it off with this twisty plot and we really enjoyed the discussion that brought on.Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen have done such a fantastic job here with this complicated, complex and compelling storyline, creating a fascinating unreliable character here with Vanessa.
Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press and Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen for an ARC of this novel to read and review.All of our Traveling Sisters Review can be found on our sister blog:https://twosisterslostinacouleereadin...
