https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153485.Seven_Days_In_May
For some men it was a Senator McCarthy, for others it was a General Walker, and now it's a General Scott.Democratic presidents have found themselves caught between the enemy abroad and the right wing elements at home.
Kirk Douglas plays Jiggs Casey and Burt Lancaster plays James Scott in the movie released in 1964There are so many interesting scenes in the book, but as President Lyman becomes more and more convinced that Casey is correct in his assumptions of the facts, he mentally shuffles through his friends and allies and discovers how small a group of men he can actually trust in his own administration.
Well, you see, a certain charismatic narcissistic military general feels that he could make a better leader so he steals from a govt fund, and with this secret force tucked far into the desert, feels that he could mount a military coup.I can see just why Rachel Maddow recommended this on her show last week, what with the shadow govt op-ed in NYT, and the archaic language and gothic terminology leading us to think* that it was penned by an elderly military sort with pseudo-evangelical ties, deeply goppered, and with no regrets for any of the foul things that have been achieved during the co-conspirator in chief's tenure so far.*Or someone in the White House is trying to frame someone else.
Published in 1962, SEVEN DAYS IN MAY is a novel of its era.
The dire threat of nuclear annihilation at the height of the Cold War permeates the story (I won't summarize the plot here).
And yet SEVEN DAYS could also well be ripped from today's headlines.
The U.S. President snagged in a frightening web of betrayal and conspiracy finds out how lonely it really is at the top.
Everybody smoking (the president prefers a pipe) anywhere they please is amusing.
A movie was made from the novel, and I believe I've seen parts.
Definitely check out SEVEN DAYS if you liked WEST WING (I did) on TV.
I was giving a keynote at the Santa Barbara Writers Conference a few years back and brought this book and movie up. I asked how many people in the audience of 500 had read it or watched the movie.Zero.I was stunned.If you don't think it could happen, think again. This is a classic book and the movie was very well done. Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas. The way Douglas uncovers the plot from just a few clues, and then his heroism in going to the President is classic.
Reading this book, which was originally published in the 1960s, was interesting in the context of today's political landscape.
It was written in a time when people treated the president with integrity and respect, instead of treating him and speaking to him like he's a vagabond on welfare.The book was good and well-written but I had a selfish reaction to it.
I was constantly comparing the world of the 1960s (the book is set in 1974, but that was the future at the time) to the world of today.
Six word book review: You thought your week was stressful?
2 1/2 stars. After the months I put into reading this, it was disappointing. No real twists, very middle-of-the-road politically, and I was let down by the treachery of the Russians. The movie looks better—it’s the only part of Frankenheimer’s “paranoid trilogy” I have yet to see. I can’t wait. But the book was a letdown.
I couldn't resist reading this after just finishing "How to Stage a Military Coup." It was kismet!
I must say, knowing what I know after reading that book: poor operational security really sabotaged the joint chiefs' coup d'etat here.
The word is that Kennedy read this book and encouraged his producer friends in Hollywood to make it into a movie because he was slightly paranoid that such a thing might actually come to pass.
Of course in this book the intelligence agencies don't have anything to do with the putsch.
No wonder JFK never saw that bullet in Dealey Plaza coming.
I first read this book when I was in high school, and that was a long time ago! If you can find a copy of this 1962 novel about a military plot to overthrow the U.S. President, I would encourage everyone to read it. It's a real thriller, one that I had a hard time putting down.
Just finished reading "Seven Days in May," a political thriller written in 1962 about an attempt to overthrow a President who many see as weak and mentally unstable and whose dealings with Russia threaten to push the US to the brink of nuclear war. Ya know, fiction.
Look at the news...this book IS prophetic! This will happen. It's only a matter of...WHEN.
The movie is a long-time favorite, but I had never read the book until now. The screenplay follows the book closely (Fletcher Knebel is listed as co-author of the script), and so the same tight, tense progression of events you see in the film is also there in the novel. One of the few books I truly found hard to put down!
There was not a war between Iran and America in the 1970's (unless you count terrorist attacks in the late 70's after the Ayatollah dethroned the Shah.)!Cool yer jets, folks!https://youtu.be/0X5xql1G4QYThis is a FICTIONAL story written in 1962.WARNING: BORING HISTORY/CONSPIRACY THEORY LACED HISTORY LESSON (usual long winded small print legal disclaimer HERE about the ideas, thoughts, etc.
are those of the author writing this and not necessarily the same as those held by GoodReads, it's staff, members, yada, yada, yada ad nauseam, so forth, so on to the point that the reader looses interest and possibly consciousness due to boredom): The book used elements of the Cold War and the 1953 British/American Coup that ousted the Democratically elected Prime Minister and installed the Shah as the leader of Iran.
This is the third time I’ve read Fletcher Knebel’s novel about a beleaguered president whose job is threatened by a charismatic military man.
Before I go into my new impressions I will give a short summary of the political situation of 1961-2, when the book was written, coinciding incidentally with my first year alive.
This is one of the themes throughout the book, selfless duty to the constitution that seems almost quaint in these days of the Tea Party.The story is written in 3rd person limited point of view with alternating characters.
Fletcher Knebel and Charles Bailey, both political journalists, craft a chillingly plausible portrait of an incipient military coup, triggered by a President's conciliatory attitude towards the USSR and a mad General's overweening ambitions.
Even in 2017's heated climate it seems implausible, but in the context where the Joint Chiefs had nearly overruled Kennedy's management of the Cuban Missile Crisis, where France had recently survived the military's violent reaction to Algerian independence, it must have seemed chillingly plausible.
I loved this book.
It was written in 1962 but seems relevant in today's political landscape.
A United States president becomes very unpopular and many millions say he is ruining the country.
The only person who can do something to remove him is a general who is popular among the troops.
The interesting part of the book is that it was set in 1974, which was the future because it had been written in '62.
Despite not having come to pass by 1974 as the book predicted I think it is prophetic.
I recently received the Burt Lancaster-Kirk Douglas DVD movie version of this, truly enjoyed it and that led me to reread a bunch of Cold War novels (Fail-Safe, The Manchurian Candidate, The President's Plane is Missing).I can't say which is better, they're all quite good, well written and all stand up. You could tell the same stories today (well, they did with The Manchurian Candidate) and would only need to update the technology involved.Great reading, highly recommended.
L'ho letto con vero piacere. Negli anni 60 non si sentivano in dovere di punteggiare tutti i discorsi di parolacce.. si sente ovviamente l'eco della guerra fredda e ci sono curiose previsioni: nel 72 l'Iran.. uno scacco americano. I Russi inaffidabili, un Presidente molto umanista, i cattivi non tanto cattivi, dapprima le solite vaghe tracce sospette e poi il tutto precipita.. lieto fine ovviamente. Qualcosa comunque è sempre valido anche per il mondo di oggi. Me lo tengo caro, eventualmente da rileggere in futuro, e riprenderò altri romanzi del medesimo autore.
An engaging thriller, and much more credible than the likes THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. But I can't help being irked by the assumption (much more rife then) that it is the evilrightwingers under the bed we need to be afraid of. Note: A scheduled ad for the movie version was to have the splash line "IMPEACH, HELL! THERE ARE BETTER WAYS TO GET RID OF HIM." The MPAA Advertising Code, then administered by my father, squelched this. Fortunately for the studio, as it was to be run on November 23rd, 1963
Great read. Quintessential D.C. political thriller about attempt of military to overthrow the President. Reverse that order, and mentally update the geography (first published in 1962, before the Kennedy Center, the beltway, and Watergate existed) and technology (pay phones were high tech) and it rings every bit as true now as it did when I first read it, about 1973. Sadly out of print, so try a used book store or library. Worth the effort.
3.5 stars
Among the greatest pieces of political fiction ever written. It's a must a read of the genre and dare I say something all folks in the U.S ought to read.
An interesting story, well-told. Believable detail, very little cardboard, not too preachy.
What if the military was planning a coup? Exciting book. Very well written, with lots of insight into how government works. It was interesting to see how some things have changed (they used typewriters and the "housewives" wore fancy dresses as their day-to-day) and some things have not (far-right radio talk show host, Russia a threat). One line that was repeated several times was particularly prescient, "It only takes one Administration to bring down the country."
A political thriller inspired by Cold War fears and possibly based on an actual incident.For some reason I couldn't fathom, the authors (both news men in their day jobs) set the book in the early 1970s.
That really dates it because the early 70s were not much like the way they were portrayed in the book.The fictional President of the United States, fairly new in office, has managed to put together a disarmament agreement with the USSR intended to put an end to nuclear weapons.
Published in the 1960's and out of print, this book has some surprisingly timely themes that made me wonder why it's not more talked about in the current political climate.In that regard, the principle strength of this book is painting believable yet terrible scenario in the form of a military coup.
A nuclear disarmament treat has been signed with the Soviet Union but elements of the US military have littler faith in either the Treaty or the President that signed it…to find out what happens you need to read the book (recommended) or see the movie (on my to-do list but it has Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster so I have high expectations).In addition to being a damn fine read, delivering a gripping storyline without needing the prop of a high body count as perhaps a contemporary equivalent would, Seven Days in May has a couple of lines that I felt are relevant to our contemporary environment…but that's another story and off-topis from this review - read on here if you like: http://sjponeill.wordpress.com/2010/0...)
What would happen if it were discovered that leaders of the armed forces were planning to overthrow the United States government and establish a military dictatorship?
However, Scott's top aide, Colonel Martin Casey, begins to discover clue after clue suggesting that Scott and a cabal of military and media leaders do not intend to wait.
Along with much of the rest of the military, he is opposed to the treaty with the Soviets, but cannot abide by what would ultimately be the suspension, if not outright abolition of, the Constitution.
Here's Jiggs flirting with his wife: "'If you were more woman and we had more time,' Casey drawled, 'this might be a pretty good afternoon for rape.'" And at one point a secret service officer describes his biggest security worry during Kennedy's presidency: Kennedy loved to swim alone and he had a bad back (in the 1970s of this novel, I gather Kennedy was a two term president).
An engaging read, if implausible at various points.
And good to see the author grappling with issues of governance in a thriller context.
I did not remember at all what the book was about.The story starts with Colonel Martin J.
Starting with an odd message about a horse race, sent through classified channels, added to a chance conversation with an old friend, a quip by a pompous Senator at a party, and suddenly Casey believes he has stumbled upon a coup, planned for next Saturday.I found the story writing to be very good; I was always annoyed when I had to stop reading.
But this is a book I will read again, and recommend to others who like this kind of thriller.
