https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3236560-the-thousand-headed-man
The Thousand Headed Man, Doc Savage, by Kenneth RobesonThis is a Doc Savage “pulp fiction” novel originally published in the 30s or 40s and reissued in the 70s.
The reason I haven't given it 5 stars is because it takes a little effort at times to place yourself in the 30s and extrapolate into the gadgets we take for granite today, while remembering these “things” in the book were all likely possible in the 30s but were cutting edge.
Top of the line 3 engine propeller planes, without cabin pressurization, but hey, no security checks!For those who don't know, Doc Savage is as close to Superman and Batman as you can be and actually have only the abilities that seem reasonable.
In 'The Thousand Headed Man' there is a host of interesting characters, one of whom is named Monk.
The description of Monk reminds me of The Thing from Marvel Comics.
However, I have to wonder if Marvel got the idea for The Thing from Doc Savage, seeing as how these adventures were from the 1930's!For all the action and mystery that holds you deep in the secret jungles of Indo-China, there was a moment of laugh out loud hilarity for me late in the book.
For a nice weekend escape into a scientific and fantastical world of The Bronze Man and his motley crew, you should check this series out!
This is the second Doc Savage book I've read to date and, as of yet, I don't completely understand the love for the series.
The character is a complete cypher and is, essentially, the Terminator.
He's smarter than everyone, stronger than everyone, knows more than everyone...add in some really poor dialogue, cardboard cut-out supporting characters and you've got the Doc Savage series so far.
A very weak entry in the pulps.
No clue how this stuff stood up in a world where RE Howard, Clark Ashton Smith and HP Lovecraft were all writing.
Perhaps the modern knock-off novels are more well written?
The International Man of Mystery...The Bronze Marvel solves another mystery..deep in the jungles of Indo-China....
When I was 13 and 14, I read Doc Savage books like eating popcorn.
I had fond memories of those books, and I remembered "The Thousand-Headed Man" being one of my favorites.
So, I decided to revisit it.
I still liked it.
However, the references to Asian people made me a little uncomfortable in 2017.
Doc Savage and his crew are always awesome.
I especially liked how much time Doc spent alone with Monk's pig Habeas Corpus during the adventure.
I remembered the descriptions of Doc's time in the jungle from when I was young.
That remained very good upon re-reading it.
In this novel, Doc Savage and his crew, in an attempt to help a woman rescue her explorer father, travel to the jungles of Indochina, in the middle of which is a mysterious, seemingly abandoned city, supposedly the home of the legendary thousand-headed man. It is not great literature, and the Asian stereotypes are cringe-inducing in this day and age. But is is fast-paced and fun -- pure pulp adventure.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.

The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
I probably read this in 1965, I think it was first Doc Savage book I ever read.
I loved it and for years bought all the paperbacks as they came out and searched out the few early ones I missed.
I have them all now, including Will Murray's recent "Wild Adventures of Doc Savage".Can't say I've read them all yet; but I intend to.
I have 18 of the original adventures and 9 of the new ones yet to read.At some point in time I sold my collection; then a few years later regretted it and managed to replace them.
This is the second book in the series and nearly as good the first. There are touches of Tarzan here as Doc takes to the treetops often to travel. The story establishes his five assistants better and details many more of his wondrous gadgets. Several of his "inventions" are now real things! As usual a beautiful girl is smitten with Doc and he has no time for her. His pull and respect with the police are featured quite a bit as well.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
Top notch! An absolute thriller! This may be one of the best Doc novels I've ever read. I know I read it as a kid but I did not appreciate the complicated plot and the fact that Doc was actually fighting two different sets of villains. The fingernail loving Sen Gat makes for a deliciously evil foe, but then the real foe is revealed and it makes the job for Doc and the fabulous five even tougher. I really enjoyed this one.

Action from start to finish. Doc Savage has to solve the mysteries of the three black keys, missing archaeologists, a strange sound that precedes unconsciousness, and the thousand-headed man. Fun read and why Doc Savage magazine was so popukar.
A very good lost race novel in the Doc Savage series. Doc and his friends go and investigate a mysterious Indochina city whose inhabitants were supposedly driven out by the title monstrosity. The frequent use of "slant eyes" for the Chinese villains makes it a lot less palatable though.
You'll never mistake this for literature, but for fun 30's series pulp adventure it doesn't get much better than this.
read SOMETIME in 2011
read during school year 1965-66, possibly in spring 1966
Enjoyed the reading the story and also enjoyed listening to the old time radio dramatization of the story as well.
The vipers are cool
