https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35036409-my-brilliant-friend
Personally, I find this whole mystery of little interest as I share her view that all that the author wants to say she should say in the book and there is no need for the entire marketing circus.Ferrante’s Naples novels have been compared to Knausgaard’s magnum opus because both authors can be characterised by their hyperreal scrutiny which seemingly can only be achieved in autobiographical novels.
But then, I generally feel female experience, once stripped of all telling signs could be pretty universal, because, you know, women are people too.
For 200 pages I tried to see what it is about this writer that gets such acclaim, but with 130 pages to go, I abandoned it - there are just too many other books in my waiting pile that I want to read.
I didn't develop any concern for the characters, and found it really repetitive - different stage school/same response from parents/same competitiveness with Lila/ it just went on and on and didn't seem to GO anywhere.
Endless minor characters proved annoying and I gave up trying to keep up with who they were (despite the list in the front of the book) as well as all the interludes with various boys.
I have been studying Italian in my free time and so decided to try reading one of the most popular Italian writers of today: Elena Ferrante.
My Brilliant Friend is not the sort of book I would normally pick up as I prefer fantasy fiction.
Elena grows up side by side with her friend/foil/personal albatross Lila, who is naturally brilliant at everything and more beautiful than Elena, but who is held down by circumstances to work in her father's shoe store while Elena has a chance to escape her life through education.
Wow, cliffhangers work!
In a dirt poor neighbourhood on the outskirts of Naples in the 1950s, bright working class girls Elena Greco (our narrator) and bestie Lila Cerrullo survive childhood and adolescence, learning how to navigate school, boys, sex and the limited opportunities available to them because of their class and gender.Initially I found the book disorienting.
(It doesn’t help that only Elena calls her friend Lila; everyone else calls her Lina, and her birth name is Rafaella!
Also: Elena is often called Lenu.) An index of the family names at the beginning proves very helpful.
type, edit, delete, undo delete, type, edit, delete..deep breathstart againtype, edit, delete…make a coffeetype, edit, delete…pour a drinktype, edit, delete..desperation sets in The dog ate my review! ………………................................Why, why, why can’t I find any words to say about this book?The problem is I don’t know what I feel about it. In fact, the book has left me without any feelings, good or bad. It has left me blank. I’m not used to feeling blank after reading.I read Ferrante’s Th
………………................................Why, why, why can’t I find any words to say about this book?The problem is I don’t know what I feel about it.
In fact, the book has left me without any feelings, good or bad.
I was so stimulated by the writing - the words and the dramatic tone seemed to match the episodes of the narrative quite perfectly - that I started writing the review even before I’d finished reading the book.With this one, I skimmed, I nodded off, I left it down often and only reluctantly picked it up again.
The entire time I spent reading this book I asked myself "What is wrong with this book? Why am I having so much trouble getting into it?". It is incredibly slow-paced, but I also believe the Italian-to-English translation must be flawed. Many of the sentences were confusing and even contradictory. The redeeming factor, and the reason I gave it two stars instead of one, was that the Italian atmosphere was strongly prevalent and somewhat enjoyable - I learned what living in Naples in the 50s must have been like.
[4.5 stars]If I were to describe Elena Ferrante's My Brilliant Friend in one word it would be 'mythic.' The minutiae of Elena and Lila's lives into which Ferrante dives takes on these mythic proportions, pulling the reader along on a tense and frightful story.
There's an underlying push and pull to their friendship that goes against the expected narrative of girlhood.
And I think that if I were to go back now and re-read the beginning, I'd be much more comfortable with the characters, the setting and the narrative structure.
Ferrante's descriptions are so good that eventually it felt as if I had been living with these families.But what exactly is the story, you ask?
There are stories about the competitions at school, and how Elena and Lila would push each other to learn more.
There are stories of Lila's family, and how her father would abuse her when he lost his temper.
Our world was like that, full of words that killed: croup, tetanus, typhus, gas, war, lathe, rubble, work, bombardment, bomb, tuberculosis, infection.
Adolescence Ch 13-36Ms. Ferrante writes: blablablablablabalbla blablablabla bla bla blaJaidee: Oh I guess this about a lot of blablabla....when does it get good....forty three people and their mother insisted that I read this !!
Adolescence Ch 37 to 54Ms. Ferrante writes: blablabla blabla bla blabla blaJaidee: Please let this be over and What the fuck am I missing....oh yes maybe a few blablablas !!
Adolescence Ch 54 to 62Ms. Ferrante writes: Bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla !!!Jaidee: Am I in Purgatory ??
I am guessing the content of Books 2 through 4 will beBlablablablablabla and more blablablablablabla I will not be finding out !
It only occurs to the sixty year old character who is the actual narrator of the story about two-thirds of the way through to get outside of herself and mention that she realizes now that her neighborhood was not the norm- it’s like in telling the story she put herself back under the spell and forgot that herself.
Come tra Lila e Lenù la grande amicizia è basata su un gioco continuo di scambio e rovesciamento, Ferrante sorprende e confonde senza nascondere, racconta personaggi che nessuna forma può contenere, che prima o poi possono spaccare tutto un’altra volta, come succede alla pentola di rame - con un'ansia particolare, quasi urgenza di tirare fuori, spiegare, che regala a queste pagine una piacevolezza di lettura inaspettata.Chiara Lagani (qui con Fiorenza Menni) della Compagnia Fanny & Alexander ha realizzato uno spettacolo intitolato “Da parte loro nessuna domanda imbarazzante” ispirato a una scena di questo romanzo, le due piccole amiche e le bambole che si perdono nella cantina.Non ho nostalgia della nostra infanzia, è piena di violenza.
My brilliant friend  is a first volume of series and centers around two young girls, Lila and Elena, and their not always easy friendship.
Girls are like fire and water.
Elena is polite, dutiful and well-behaved meanwhile Lila is impulsive and rebellious.
My brilliant friend  is a record of friendship and adolescence but also meticulous description of the world which is about to change.Maybe this novel is not especially innovative but Ferrante has a keen eye.
Maybe Ferrante just writes about herself and performs a personal exorcisms.
Anyway, her observations are acutely accurate and, needless to say, I’m eagerly waiting to know subsequent choices, joys and failures of Lila and Elena.
Different people draw different words from me.” So said Virginia Woolf and this, the forging of identity in relationship, is very much the theme of Elena Ferrante’s compelling novel.
Elena, the narrator of the novel, is in first grade when we first meet her.
There’s a passage when Elena is writing about Lila’s prose style which would serve as the perfect eulogy of Ferrante’s prose style – “She expressed herself in sentences that were well constructed, and without error, even though she had stopped going to school, but – further – she left no trace of effort, you weren’t aware of the artifice of the written word.
Knausgaard:Even though I’ve only read this first novel in the sequence, it’s hard for me to resist the urge to compare Ferrante’s Neapolitan series to Knausgaard’s My Struggle.Both series are: multi-volume, non-English, first person page-turner novels spanning several decades of their character’s lives, first published in English in 2012, with subsequent volumes appearing annually.
Ferrante’s writing really put me inside that experience in an empathic way.They are also vastly different from one another: The Neapolitan Novels are fictitious, set in Italy, viscerally violent, told in a mostly linear, chronological order, feature short chapters, supposedly gained a lot in translation, are written pseudonymously, and have a tight focus on the friendship between two female characters over the years.
I had this book on my radar for so long but I always got distracted by other books (but I think this is the story of 90% of bookworms, so many books so little time. Sigh!) It took me three years to finally read this, and what an adventure this turn out to be. "There was something unbearable in the things, in the people, in the buildings, in the streets that, only if you reinvented it all, as in a game, became acceptable. The essential, however, was to know how to play, and she and I, only she an
My Brilliant Friend tells us the story of Elena and Lila in Italy of 1950s.
They grew up together, went to school together, fell in love together.
While Lila was an exceptionally gifted child, Elena was a hardworking girl but they both got the things if they put in their minds that they had to have them.
Lila on her own decides to read by borrowing books from the library and taught herself high school courses and Greek.
Story is told through Elena and yet clearly Lila won my heart here.
While these two grew up to be brilliant teenagers, this story is not about all this.
My Brilliant Friend, the first in Elena Ferrante’s quartet about best friends from a Naples ghetto, is a novel about power: who holds it, how it is won and lost, and what happens when power shifts occur.
All this, in a novel about two young girls exploring friendship and adolescence in post-war southern Italy.
Elena Greco and Lila Cerrullo are daughters of working class families, growing up in a crowded, poor, electrifying neighborhood on the outskirts of Naples in the mid-1950s.
Although it is Elena who is granted the opportunity to pursue an education beyond middle school, it is Lila who directs her learning.
But the echo that you noticed maybe derives from an oscillation inside the characters that I’ve always worked on.
I know it well, and that also affects the way I write."Elena Ferrante - The New York Times"Ferrante’s Naples books are essentially about knowledge—its possibilities and its limits.
Who has power over our lives?"Rachel Donadio - The New York Review of Books"Life has actions in it.
As soon as you start reading Elena Ferrante, you know you are in the hands of an extraordinary writer whose mind, heart and natural abilities have inextricably fused in the greatest of fires.
I just don't get the hype. I found the writing (or translation) incredibly choppy and the story overlong, repetitive and incoherent at times.There must be better writers in Italy than Ferrante.
The smaller group was the contingent of middle-class kids, most of whom lived on the new estate just down the road from the school.
They were the children of the local working class, spoke Welsh by preference, and were poor, dirty and violent.Violence was an integral part of school life.
One boy in the class above me managed to put an eye out using some wood-carving tools; another was killed when he was showing off by the side of the road and fell in front of a car.
"It was as if, because of an evil spell, the joy or sorrow of one required the sorrow or joy of the other; even our physical aspect, it seemed to me, shared in that swing."Elena and Lila, a friendship born of necessity – the need to find another human soul that understands us, our longings and sorrows - someone to emulate, someone that drives each of us to become our very best self.
Both girls work hard, but it is quite evident that Lila is the dominant one in the relationship – academics come easy to her and Elena finds herself wanting to reach those same heights.
I want to shake Elena, and to tell her to let go of Lila -- just a bit at least -- to stop hanging on Lila's every word and emotions, and to find her own place...< Lila -- you too are brilliant, but you are so so hard on yourself and others.
You are so harsh, Naples, and you should hang your head in shame for making life so harsh for Elena and Lila, for creating the space in which these strong, brilliant, love starved and flawed characters experience lives defined by poverty, deprivation, grittiness and brutality.
While I was reading, and enjoying, this book, I was also struggling to work out what about this was bothering me.The thing is, casual readers would be forgiven for thinking that Ferrante's ‘dialect’ is some ungrammatical or degraded urban street version of Italian; in fact, of course, Neapolitan is a sister-language with a long, proud literary and administrative history.
Since it's being made in Italian, it's hard to imagine that the producers could duck the issue of using Neapolitan in the way that Ferrante can duck it in text – as a regional language, its use in oral contexts like film and music (’O sole mio, most famously) is, I suppose, more acceptable than in print.
I wanted it to move into their adult years and become more interesting and relevant to me personally.
I should state that I rarely enjoy reading about childhood from the child’s perspective for an entire book.
For the duration, it read like the early pages of a novel you’re trying to get through so you can get to the main storyline.
Then it ends abruptly, like part I of a big novel with no part II.
I can say that if I was willing to read the second book I might enjoy it as it was just getting interesting.
But it looks like I’m in the minority.
The only Ferrante novel I had read before was her "Days of Abandonment," which I thought overheated (and overrated).
The relationship unfolds in the suburbs of Naples with a surprising reversal, as we come to realize just who the "Brilliant Friend" really is.
I know of the mystery surrounding Elena Ferrante and the suggestion of some that she might be a male writer assuming a female name.
Maybe, but I sense something very, very authentic about the voice of Lenu and the brutalizing male world that surrounds her and cannot quite believe a man could have written this (see also James Wood's comments on this issue).
το παρόν review δεν περιέχει τη λέξη νεορεαλιστικός]Να λοιπόν που έφτασε η ώρα να συναντήσω κι εγώ τη Ferrante και όλα πήγαν πρίμα.Θαρρώ πως, με εξαίρεση ίσως το Γκιάκ, το Η υπέροχη φίλη μου είναι το βιβλίο που έχει προκαλέσει το μεγαλύτερο θόρυβο στην Ελλάδα την τελευταία 3ετία και δεν έχει αφήσει καθόλου ασυγκίνητο και τον υπόλοιπο κόσμο.
Κάθε μικρό κομμάτι της αφήγησης της, δωσμένο με αυτές τις χωρίς ανάσα προτάσεις, δεν είναι απλά μια ξερή καταγραφή γεγονότων, αλλά μια ολοκληρωμένη σκέψη ενός ανθρώπου που επεξεργάζεται αυτά για τα οποία μιλά και τα περνά από κόσκινο την ίδια στιγμή που τα εκφράζει.
Lila and Elena, childhood friends in a neighborhood of 1950s Naples, both wear the moniker “my brilliant friend,” but there is no question which of the two Ferrante meant.
Instead, Lila takes books from a small neighborhood lending library to study on her own the subjects Elena struggles to master.
Together they test one another, spiking the interest levels and capabilities of both.Ferrante captures the uncertainty and confusion of youth through the voice and perspective of Elena.
We know, just like Elena does, that Elena is only a conduit, pretty and clever, but a poor substitute for the real thing.
Though I am undeniably envious of Ferrante's beautiful skill with words, I have to acknowledge that the growing hype around her is totally warranted, and in fact, I want to add to it:-)The story is not the most remarkable, but it is the manner in which it is told that captivates the reader.There is such fervor, but it is beautifully balanced with deeply nuanced thoughtfulness.
Truly remarkable books!A little update: The Story of the Lost Child was a brilliant ending to this series, read them all!Update:Today Ferrante's identity has been '"revealed" by an intrusive article by The New York Review of Books.
Moram naglasiti da njihovo prijateljstvo nikad nije bilo ono klasično žensko prijateljstvo, koje je prikazano realističan i u neku ruku karazmatičan način, ali daleko od toga da je ovo priča samo o prijateljstvu, ovo je i prikaz Italije s druge polovice proteklog stoljeća kroz život životopisnih stanovnika jednog siromašnog kvarta na periferiji Napulja, pa tako svi koji očekuju toplu ljudsku priču i romantičnu Italiju mogli bi se razočarati.
Ovako na temelju prve knjige teško je dati neku objektivnu ocjenu jer zapravo priča tek počinje ali sviđa mi se što ima taj duh južne Italije, koji više dolazi do izražaja u drugoj knjizi, a koji me mrvicu podsjeća na Kuma.
It's the present day and Lila's son calls Elena, who's living in Turin, to say his mother is missing from her Naples home.
Lila, the smarter of the two, the "brilliant friend" of the title, has a dream of writing novels with Elena one day.
Extremely shrewd and calculating, once education is excluded for Lila, she must resort to woman's traditional means of securing her future: marriage.Elena, meanwhile, partly due to coaching from Lila, makes it all the way to high school where she excels in languages and writing.
First, allow me to disclaim my prejudice: I am not, generally speaking, a fan of the coming-of-age of novel.
But the thing about coming-of-age novels is that they focus on children, whose limited experience of the world ensure a certain similarity of response.
It's true and real and tangible and it's just like watching life in all its lived-in splendor.I'm not saying that the world Ferrante offers us is a place of beauty—because it's not—but any writer who understands how to translate life—any instance of life—to the page with such force and persuasiveness has created beauty through her work.
