https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62809.Five_Modern_No_Plays
Hanako : I wait.Jitsuko : I wait for nothing.Songs of a lonely heart flying from the gentle folds of the fan signalling the melancholic air to chant sermons of an unrequited love ; the capricious love muffling the voices of a damask drum ; the viciousness of love nurtured by the obstinacy of the heart spilling its vengeance in a haunted soul ; the arrogance of beauty nestled in narcissistic love humbled by the aloofness of a gravestone and the nothingness of love dissolving into a philosophical profundity dreaming the richness of love on a mystifying Kantan pillow.
He helped bring a stylistically 14th century art form into the 20th century.Contrasting the old and new in his modern Nō, Mishima keeps the same titles and basic plots of the older plays, but uses contemporary speech, natural body language and stage settings.
While traditional Nō might stimulate a spiritual sense with overtones of lightness and life, Mishima generates anxiety with components of death.As a result, these five plays have morphed into concrete versions of their abstract past selves, still representing the essence, the symbolic quality and suggestive elements of the originals* even in their crude modern settings; they are comprehensible and accessible to the otherwise ill-exposed Nō audience.
They are Sotoba Komachi, Kantan, The Damask Drum, and The Lady Aoi. Hanjo is found in Twenty Plays of the No Theatre (Donald Keene, Columbia, 1970).Incidentally, I've had The No Plays of Japan (Grove Press, 1957) since September, 2015 so I suspect I didn't read this note and mention it in the first review.
I mean their characters themselves and I would leave other technical points to those critics who have written in various columns and books in which we could search and read to our hearts’ content whenever we feel inclined to.All of his five No plays may look simple but I wonder if anyone dares to write like him or unthinkably surpass him; it is easier said than done, I think.
171)EXCERPT 5 (HANJO)	JITSUKO		I wait for nothing.
Estas piezas teatrales breves están repletas de Mishima.
Su esencia se manifiesta en cada réplica, en cada objetivo que personajes principales y secundarios se marcan como meta.
La belleza como castigo, la obsesión por aquello que nos ignora, la incapacidad de amar de un modo sensible y altruista y el paso del tiempo reflejado en las estaciones.
Lejos de aquella cómoda y silenciosa naturaleza japonesa, Mishima saca lo peor que cada uno lleva dentro, pero no para ser juzgado, sino para ser aceptado como parte indivisible de lo que es un ser humano digno de ser llamado como tal.Dediquen tiempo a estas obritas.
Read three of the plays before going to bed and had wonderful surreal dreams.This is remarkable. I'd always had an interest in Noh, and Mishima does a faithful job at combining and synthesizing the old and new.
She does not hide her admiration for Japanese who possess two very differents theatrical traditions.
It was at the VIIth century when the monk Kelkai came from China to transmit the Buddhism in Japan.
I went to spend one night in a monastery of the Mount Koya, the cradle of the Japanese Buddhism.
Mishima resumes the characteristics of No without retaining the sacred aspect.Thus 5 No, 5 dramatics situations.
The supernatural appears as a threat under the aspect of a woman who comes at night at the bedside of a sick woman.To you to choose the one who pleases you most.
Yukio Mishima wrote these series of plays because of his respect for the medium of "No" plays. If Kubuki is a broad type of Broadway/London West End type of entertainment, then No is sort of a combination of a Robert Wilson piece with a Robert Bresson narrative. Mishima of course makes his own 'modern' version of the No Play that is incredible to read. I would love to see this on a stage.
ولد طفل في هذا العالم الضبابي المظلم! ان رحم امه كان اكثر تفاؤلا. لماذا يجب ان نتركه في مكان اكثر ضبابية؟ سذاجة.......كنت اهوي النظر الي عينيك .. تلك العيون التي تبحث عن الحرية داخل القفص الذي كان هو نفسي، و القيد الذي كان هو انا ..
5 plays by Mishima. Would love to see these plays on stage someday. These plays seem deceptively simple but there is more than meets the eye. The plots are intriguing and odd. Don't expect "happy endings" here.
Amazing!
Brilliant introduction to Nō plays, a Japanese theatrical art form revived by Mishima who is someone not so known, abroad, as anything but a fiction writer.
Though I don't know an awful lot about Nō (and the book's introduction could have been much more informative and better), the plays are absorbing.
They are mysterious and deal with dreams, ghosts, spirits, and magic but in a thoroughly 'modern' environment: palace gardens are replaced with offices, temple gardens by public parks.
Nevertheless the sinister quality works well in the modern equivalents heightening that blurred line between reality and dream, which now seems so prominent a part in Japanese literature.
On connaît peu Yukio Mishima en tant que dramaturge, mais c’est pourtant un genre dans lequel il excelle. Il nous le montre ici en dépoussiérant le nô, tout en parvenant à ne pas dénaturer ce théâtre tellement japonais et à nous dévoiler une fois de plus son talent. On prend un réel plaisir à découvrir l’intrigue et à s’imprégner de cette atmosphère si particulière qui entoure ces pièces.Avis complet : https://comaujapon.wordpress.com/2017...
No’s fine as far as it goes, but it'll never as good as kabuki:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3bS8L1...Loved the text of these plays. "Lady Aoi" is my absolute favourite, followed by "Sotoba Komachi". Least fave was "Kantan", which I found rather difficult. I thought that the introduction could have been much more helpful and much less annoying.
"Five Modern No Plays" by Yukio Mishima is excellent, well structured collection that gives you a fascinating taste into the world of Japanese No drama.
My favorites were "The Demask Drum" and "Katan" and the only one that I felt was of lesser quality was "Sotoba Komachi." Each one is quite dark and like good theater, really engages its audience to not only question the characters but also themselves and the world around them.If you are looking for an interesting gateway into Japanese literature, I would recommend giving this collection a read.
Years ago I read this book in English when scanning through Japanese literature in the second floor underground of Brandeis University Main Library (the time period when I devoured a bunch other Japanese literature most of which I've forgotten today).
After all, reading has the best effect when it's done right - the right selection, at the right timing - just as the theory of "150 books" by Faria in The Count of Monte Cristo says.I've long forgotten what these No plays were like when I read them (except for some very ghostly feelings about the settings).
It just feels so exciting to revive this memory through the newly available Chinese translation!
Never thought Noh plays were this surreal.
Many of them were too surreal (or too familiarly surreal) for me, but some were very, very good, especially Yuya which left me flabbergasted by its sheer narrative ingenuity in playing with the audience's expectations (i.e. messing with your head).
What I appreciate about these "translations" is that most of the plays, even the surreal ones, left me with a quiet resonance much like wabi-sabi, such as Aya no Zutsumi, Sotoba Komachi, Hanjo, and Dōjoji.
One quibble: not sure if it's in the original plays, but most of the male characters are so unlikable in Mishima's highbrow, intellectual, sadomasochistic way that they felt familiar and despicable at the same time.
'I had never read Japanese literature before (except Manga). All my knowledge about their culture was based on stereotype, which doesn’t say a lot. I found this book and it had these circles drawn on the cover that looked hand-drawn with a pen. I kept feeling the cover to see whether they were real. Intrigued as always, and a little amused at my stupidity, I picked it up..' Read more: http://bit.ly/1aYbXLz
Having studied Noh plays extensively, I was interested in a study of Modern Noh in comparison to traditional Noh. I found the plays contained within this collection to be entirely unlike Noh in style, content, meaning, and philosophy. Surely a number may be based on previous Noh works, but to call writing such as this 'modern noh' is, I believe, an inaccurate description.Not unreadable, but not what I was looking for. Again, I am wholly unimpressed by Mishima.
Mishima's masterful retelling of 5 classic no plays is a remarkable demonstration of how this beautiful art form (which, as Alan Booth puts it, has become fossilized over the centuries) has the flexibility to adapt to a modern context. And we're lucky enough to have a translation by Japanese literature expert Donald Keene.
I'm still not sure what constitutes as a Noh play. All the plays here have some kind of intertwine between reality and dream, reality and imagination. The blurred area between the two is interestingly wide.I'll make sure I'll go to one of the performance if I the chance.
"Si hubiera tocado el tambor una vez más, estoy seguro de que lo habría oído."Seis obras de teatro que reinventan piezas de noh con situaciones y personajes contemporáneos. Quien consiga adentrarse en su mundo onírico donde todo puede ocurrir, las disfrutará. Los finales son demoledores.
Read damask drum and lady aoi. Complex and haunting. Conservatism's dying breaths in Japan?
I look forward to seeing Hanjo later this year.
Un monde, ou des mondes, entre l'onirique et le réel, la fantaisie et la douleur. Du théâtre poétique à la japonaise d'une vraie fraîcheur.
Beautiful.
Morbidly beautiful and profoundly sad stories of Love. Mishima is becoming one of my favorite authors.
Japanese writing is always fascinating in it's twisted plots. No Hollywood endings here.
grim. it would be cool to read the original versions of these no plays to see how much mishima added his own spin to them
I came into this knowing nothing about Mishima except for the fact that his novels are often about the woes of life. I wasn’t wrong. As soon as I read the first play, I was hooked. It ended sadly of course but I couldn’t understand why I loved it still. Each play was written so beautifully, you almost forget how sad everything is. Nevertheless, I’m glad I discovered Yukio Mishima and discovered this piece of literature.
Stark and haunting. But Mishima's stories and novels are even better, at length.
