https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13760.The_Trees
Even if it means dragging the whole, dirt-poor family from Pennsylvania to Ohio through woods so deep one can't see the sky till the trees release their cargo come winter.
Such a place belongs to the wild creatures who roam, not families with young 'uns.
I'm not saying don't read the book if you're an animal lover, but I will say that if you're sensitive to this (and I hope you are) just be mindful that when you come to a scene involving a settlement and a tied up wolf, skip the next page.
Favorite book(s) of all time.
Beautifully written in poetic style using authentic dialog and well researched stories/attitudes/implements/activities of the time.
Great record of westward progress, how it happened and the forces that drove it.This book stands alone, but is great with the other two books in the Awakening Land series.
Get a personal view of progress from wilderness living to town living in the same location.
Subtly raises questions about whether the europeans ruined the indians, whether progress to towns was a good thing, and many other issues we still struggle with today.
I love these books and recommend them highly.
In the primeval forests of the Ohio Valley the trees stood dense, ancient, massive.
When a faint white drifted through the dark forest wall ahead, you knew you were getting to the top of a hill or an open place....But away back here across the Ohio, it had no fields.
(I kept seeing a young Jennifer Lawrence of Winter's Bone in the lead.) The Trees is mostly Saird's story--a dark, hard-lived tale of family, of survival and of the changes that came to an ancient land with the new settlers.I loved the language.
Richter's writing brought to mind the rhythms and cadences of Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings's The Yearling -- a pure reading of the time and state, without one glimmer of the revisionist's eye.
It felt to me a most accurate representation of what pioneering must have truly been like -- bugs, and lice and the oppressive push of the trees for some; wilderness and freedom and pure elemental nature, for others.
Even within the pioneering spirit, there lay the dichotomy of town versus wilderness: those who longed to carve out their space out of it, and those who sought to submerge themselves within it.
The Ingalls-Wilder books arenarrated from the innocence of childhood with the realities and horrors of frontier life kept at arm's length or out of sight altogether and the family proverb "all's well that ends well" a comfortingrefrain.
Published in the early 40's, it's the story of the Luckett family who move from the sunny, relative safety of Pennsylvania to the deep woods of Northwest territory in search of better hunting grounds and because the father, like Pa Ingalls, can't stay still.
Richter spins out the story of the Lucketts' fortunes and misfortunes and those of their 'neighbors' with such facility, the dialect so spot-on, the reader might be deceived into describing the writing as simple.
The Trees is easily one of my top five favorite books I've ever read.
Richter was living in New Mexico when a neighbor gave him a 1600 page history (journals and stories) of the pioneers of the Ohio River Valley.
In the beginning, the Luckett family is making their way west from Pennsylvania because the husband/father, Worth, thinks Pennsylvania is getting too crowded.
Worth was a soldier in the Revolutionary War and heading into the Ohio River Valley - a nice segue from reading Washington's biography.
Worth's wife, Jary, and their five children are traveling through this rough country with him.
The Trees is Conrad Richter's first novel in "The Awakening Land" trilogy: he won the Pulitzer Prize in 1951 for his third novel in the series, The Town.Trees came highly recommended by my friend Charles, who has dependably shared my taste in movies and books, and hit a home run last year with his recommendations Lucifer's Hammer and The Mote in God's Eye."Conrad Richter?
The strength of the novel lies in Sayward's steadfastness, Richter's ability to make something utterly shocking happen just by sneaking a simple sentence into a paragraph like it's no biggee, and finally, making said Trees into their own menacing characters.This ends up being a fine novel, and can stand on its own.
There were so many words I didn't know that must come from vernacular.
Here is one: "...when she raised her eyes she'd know this place would never fail her.
It was dim with a kind of pine woods night and yet out there beyond the dark, scaly butts and branches the blinding sunlight came down, turning a ferny bank to golden, tender green and sparkling on the river with silver.
It was like something to come in her own life some day, something bright and shining on ahead." (118)Gender roles are depicted quite traditionally, which is appropriate given the time period.
This is my all time favorite book.
The story tells of a family's move to the Northwest Territory (Ohio) in the late eigthteenth century.
The mother dies of tuberculosis and the father, a hunter, abandons the family for long stretches of time.
The responsibility of caring for the family falls to the oldest, a girl named Saywood.
This book, and the two that follow are about her life in the changing world she lives in.
The Ohio wilderness she finds as a teenage girl changes to a bustling town by the time she dies in the final book.
Like a grown-up, raw version of Little House books. Convincingly transported me to late 18th-century Ohio life.
It's the first of three in the The Awakening Land trilogy, a story set in the late 18th century, just after the Revolutionary War, in which we follow the Luckett family as they make their way west from Pennsylvania into the Ohio valley, eventually settling in what is now central Ohio.
Richter isn't showing us a romanticized version of the frontier, but a realistic and historically centered one, brought to life via the character's dialogue, as well as the book's language.
It's as if Richter sat down without any notion of where he was headed (in much the same way as the Luckett family), and allowed the characters to tell him the story.
all those years of reading the Little House books as a child...
I remember Suli and her sister and brother and the parent (father?) who just up and went away and how one day Suli, just a little girl, just didn't come home from her day in the woods and how the other siblings just knew that she was gone for good and that was that, that was the reality of life, no point in wishing it otherwise.I remember the images of the trees, endless, endless, endless....
I reckon such a thing would certainly enrich the reading experience for all and would, I suspect, preserve the book's longevity.THE TREES begins in the late eighteenth century and features the lives of ordinary people encountering a virgin forested wilderness in what is today called Ohio.
When I commenced my reading journey of THE TREES, first published in 1940, I was aware that THE TREES is the first book of a trilogy called THE AWAKENING LAND.
THE FIELDS was published in 1946 six years after THE TREES and THE TOWN appeared first in 1950.
I read The Trees (The Fields & The Town) after I watched and loved The Awakening Land mini-series on television in 1978 with Elizabeth Montgomery playing the brave and often desperate protagonist, Sayward Luckett.
It's a story of struggle to survive and prosper in a wild and untamed land and time when primeval forests were dense and alive in North America.
Richter's writing makes the landscape visceral, you can feel the pulse of the forest, it's denseness, almost smell the respiration of the trees--the way it was, before our "taming".
For better or for worse, The Trees is a very accurate portrayal of what life on the early American frontier must have been like.
The mother is downright depressing, after the family moves all she says is stuff like “I don’t keep track of the days no more” or “I hain’t noticed, my eyes kain’t see so good here.” I did not connect very well with any of the characters, and was almost grateful whenever one left the story.If you are interested by the early 19th century American frontier, then you will probably find this book to be endlessly fascinating.
Another review suggests this is "Little House on the Prairie" as retold by Cormac McCarthy.
The 'woodsy' family, hunters, head into the deep forest when they see their game deserting Pennsylvania.
They clear enough room for a house, which the Man builds with his axe.
The wild game is abundant -- includes fisher fox and painters -- and they are optimistic about their prospects trading skins.
I like the structure and the chapter divisions ("Bread," "The Cabin," "Little Tyke").The edition I read was from the library; Knopf, 1940 - printed on paper made by the S.D. Warren company (significant to Harvard MA); composed and bound by the Plimpton Press, Norwood, MA (still operating when I was growing up there).
Yet, this story is about early American settlers shortly after the founding of the country.
These settlers enter the real frontier much like we might imagine going into the deepest parts of the Amazon jungle in present day.
Life is barebones and extremely rustic.
He studied exactly how people talked back then, their phrasing, etc., and presents his narrative in the same language style.
Unfortunately, it also makes the reader struggle more than usual with the flow of the writing, much like the average person may struggle somewhat with the person speaking their shared language with a really strong foreign accent.
I started out loving it, in the middle I would've literally tossed it in the garbage except it was a 1950 early edition library book, then after skimming my way to the end I was grudgingly won back.
I won't say any more about it, for fear of putting the same grotesque images in your mind that the author so adeptly put into mine.
Suffice it to say, this is where the book almost ended up in the trash.
It was touchingly sweet, and Sayward and others acted in a way that was very true to character.
Wow! Gritty and real. Dialect to cadence, so precise to the period. Not an ounce of revisionist eyes or characterizations. Pioneers in America as experienced in the early days of the nation. Nothing is a given or any sure outcome for these people. Nothing.Classic.
Now she and her young ones were here and here likely they would stay.” In poor health, Jary dies early in the novel.The eldest of the five children is Sayward Luckett, the novel’s main character.
They were glad to get out of it for once and go off to themselves yonder on some logs with nothing to do but lay their littlest ones on patches of moss and swap news among themselves.***We witness authenticity also in the way characters speak.Genny is concerned that her sister Sayward, whom she admires, might want to marry Jake Tench, a settlement man rumored to have fathered several Indian children.
This book is about the settlement of Ohio, viewed through the story of a young woman named Sayward Luckett (age 15 as the story begins), and also told in the language of the time, which makes for an interesting read.
As far as the eye could reach this lonely forest sea rolled on and on till its faint blue billows broke against an incredibly distant horizon."The book was first published in 1940, so it may not be terribly surprising that it doesn't spend much time or space on the people who were already there, for whom the forest was not so much a lonely wilderness as a familiar world, part of their home.
A persuasive fiction about life on the Ohio frontier. Richter recreates historical vernacular that adds color to the narrative, but he is not just showing off. He has clearly researched the period very closely in this and many other ways. The story is compelling, but only in the way real life is. There is drama, heartbreak, and humor, but no gunfights or preposterous frontier exploits. It is easy to imagine that the characters are perfectly real.
3.9 stars. Didn’t quite get 4 stars, but I really liked the ending - it gave meaning to everything that happened before it. It’s true what they say, Richter makes you feel as though he was there at the turn of the 18th century.
wow, really held my interest just couldn't put it down what a tough life they lead SAD
Well, this was some old-time readin'. Not at all what I expected, and the dialect took some getting used to. The pioneer experience beautifully told.
Living in Ohio today, it is hard to imagine a time when this land was covered with thick, dark forests that barely allowed the sun to shine through. But it was and people came, chopped down rhe trees, cleeared the land and made homes.
Richter received the Pulitzer Prize for The Town, the third book of the trilogy about American pioneers, but according to the short biography in the back, The Trees was the one he "felt was most alive." Maybe that's because it was about when the land was most alive.
This is how she describes her first glimpse of where she'd come to live for the rest of her life:For a moment Sayward reckoned that her father had fetched them unbeknownst to the Western ocean and what lay beneath was the late sun glittering on green-black water.
Death, disease, hunger, cold winters, the mysterious disappearance of a family member, the running away of some others, the nervous collapse of yet another, as well as some ghostly apparitions are just some of the challenges Sayward must face as we watch her fight to keep her family (or what's left of it) alive as she herself grows into womanhood.Throughout the novel, we see the Lucketts eventually be joined in the forest by others, turning their plotted land into a small commune.
By the novel's end, the land begins to "awaken", with the civilians of the backwoods clearing away the trees, thus progressing from hunters to farmers.
The first volume of a trilogy telling of the settling of Ohio, Conrad Richter's slim volume is acutely unique and flavorful.
Sayward is a strongly defined character who is traditionally feminine but a dominant figure in her family's lives in many ways.
The Trees, in addition to its characters' stories, covers the emigration to the Ohio forest, the establishment of a homestead, the pursuit of a stable hunter-gatherer lifestyle, and, finally, the transition from this "woodsy" way of living to an agricultural lifestyle, which the next book, The Fields, explores in greater details.
Then, the identity of the narrator was unclear – sometimes he writes as if he were a contemporary of his protagonists (and therefore assumes that you are too); at other times he very didactically goes into great detail about what is going on, detail that would be unnecessary, because obvious, if he was indeed a contemporary.
I also found the protagonists to be rather caricatured, without much depth.
I’ll give it 1.5 stars – it certainly wasn’t awful, and I didn’t find it painful to read most of the time, but I can’t say I enjoyed it at all.
