https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2772922-the-lost-tools-of-learning
Since this paper is known to have had great influence on the emergence of the classical schooling movement, I could not help but include it in my article Learning How to Think: A Reading List for Parents Considering Classical Education.”.
The Trivium is a three part educational process, progressing from Grammar (employing Observation and Memory) to Dialectic (employing Formal Logic and Discursive Reason) to Rhetoric, in that order, because that order corresponds very well with the three stages of natural child development: “Poll-Parrot, the Pert, and the Poetic.” “Huh?” you might ask.
There are a lot of people who are huge fans of this essay (it is really more of an essay than a book) but in it Sayers is really just rehashing ideas presented many years before by John Henry Newman.
Sayers work is her own interpretation of that work and simply no where near as good.
Both works call for a return to the foundations of a classic education, though even this Sayers re-interprets a bit.
There is some good to be found in Sayers work, but you would be better served to read Newman's "The Idea of a University..." which is available from Amazon for free.
The main point of Sayers' essay, that learning to learn is more important than learning per se, is a good one (and a principle I was, more or less, brought up on).
Just look at the students after cramming.
Sayers writes with a clarity which (besides being a pleasure to read) indicates a lot of thinking happened before the essay...
So, looking back on a rather long review for a rather short essay, I guess it exemplifies Sayers' tendency to intellectual provocativeness.
Dorothy Sayers herself was privileged to have a father who was the chaplain for Christ Church at the University of Oxford.
On page three she writes, 'If we are to produce a society of educated people, fitted to preserve their intellectual freedom amid the complex pressures of our modern society, we must turn back the wheel of progress some four or five hundred years, to the point at which education began to lose sight of its true object, towards the end of the Middle Ages.' The Trivium, taught throughout ten to twelve years, was broken into three parts: Grammar, Dialectic, and Rhetoric.
The book goes into detail about the content of these subjects and even recommends ways to teach these subjects age appropriately so students get it.
Very similar to my own views on education.
Sayers argues that we have lost the proper, and traditional, foundation for learning and we suffer for it.
The Trivium is grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric.
Grammar is learning how to use a language at the basic level.
Dialectic is understanding an argument enough to agree or dispute it.
The Trivium is the medieval curriculum up to age 16.
It prepares a person for learning at the university level and it prepares the non-scholar for life.
I agree with Sayer's conclusions about the benefits of a curriculum based on the Trivium and I sympathize with her criticisms of the present-day, far-from-classical educational approach.
Rangka-kerja yang dicadangkan Dorothy Sayers adalah masih di peringkat cadangan namun pesan-pesannya tentang kepentingan sistem pendidikan tradisional Latin Christendom (trivium dan quadrivium) sudahpun cukup menyedarkan. Manusia moden suka menganggap diri mereka sebagai generasi paling progresif, saintifik dan ergo, lojik. Tetapi tidak ramai daripada mereka (yakni kita) boleh mengaku bahawa mereka pernah menjalani sebarang pengajian atau latihan -walau betapa asasi pun- dalam bidang mantik.
She presents a well formulated thesis. I agree whole-heartily with her. The three stars is because the presentation of these ideas is very dry and I'm sure I'd get more from it by reading instead of listening. She was very monotoned.
Here's the essay/book that reanimated the classical Christian school movement.
Excellent case for the Trivium and a call to recover this lost discipline.
In a 23 page essay written in 1947, Dorothy Sayers argues for the relevance and use of the Trivium, the classical and medieval foundation of education based on Grammar, Dialectic, and Rhetoric, taught in the order just listed.
As Sayers points out, Grammar, Dialectic, and Rhetoric are not “subjects” in the usual school sense, but the means of learning subjects.
Following the tradition, she argues that at some age (pre-puberty), students should be introduced to Grammar by way of learning an inflected language.
Id. 221-224The final stage, beginning around age 14, Sayers suggests, is Rhetoric, which ties knowledge together.
They do not know what the words mean; they do not know how to ward them off or blunt their edge or fling them back; they are a prey to words in their emotions instead of being the masters of them in their intellects." "We dole out lip-service to the importance of education—lip-service and, just occasionally, a little grant of money; we postpone the school-leaving age, and plan to build bigger and better schools; the teachers slave conscientiously in and out of school hours; and yet, as I believe, all this devoted effort is largely frustrated, because we have lost the tools of learning, and in their absence can only make a botched and piecemeal job of it.""This reminds me of the grammar of Theology.
I shall add it to the curriculum, because theology is the mistress-science without which the whole educational structure will necessarily lack its final synthesis.”22 pages, 1 hour to listen.
In this little, thought-provoking work, Sayers briefly demonstrates what is wrong with "modern" education (circa 1940s and 1950s), divides young people into three developmental stages, and then corresponds the Medieval "Trivium" of grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric to these three stages.
This is sort of a "call-to-arms" for the Classical movement in our century because in a very condensed work Sayers manages to show exactly why the modern idea of teaching "subjects" to young people is fundamentally flawed; first they must be taught how to think, argue, and imagine.
This tiny book is a clarion call to return to a time when children were taught to think and learn for themselves.
I recognized much of my own homeschool education in its pages, although there were other parts that were not part of my curriculum that I would have loved to have (how delightful to be *taught* Latin as a small child, and how much easier than trying to *teach* oneself Latin as a teenager!) I desperately wish more schools taught like this...considering the current cultural and political situation, the ability to think and reason for oneself is tragically necessary.
I will definitely be re-reading this book, probably several times, in the future.
If I hadn’t known it was written in 1947, I could have easily assumed this lecture was given today. Many of the problems in education Dorothy Sayers was already seeing in her day have continued and I daresay gotten worse. So few students are being taught how to learn. Debates over technology in the classroom entirely miss the point. This confirms my desire for my children to have a classical education.
Excellent synopsis of classical educationAlthough I had to use my dictionary many times during the reading of this piece, perhaps evidence of my missing tools, I found the tenets well presented and clearly described. Valuable insights for anyone who values the training of mighty thinkers!
Must read for educatorsOur modern education system is failing, deaf to change, and far from truth. Christians have either been naive or ignorant, and regardless of either at this point, are complicit in propping up public education. Public education is archaic and out of touch with reality. This is simply a must read.
Very thought-provoking and well said. I only wish I had a kind of outline of the speech, to help me frame the contents into a "useable" kind of syllabus.I noticed, however, that this ebook is missing some sections from the speech. I recommend readers check out the PDF I found:http://graceclassical.org/wp-content/...
She hits the crux of the matter in an articulate and concise fashion. In doing so she brings down the rather lengthy works of Cardinal Newman and others into the lightest format for the greatest number of people to consider. Looking towards application would naturally involve the deeper sources.
This insightful essay is discussed in Ben Sasse's new book, "The Vanishing American Adult." Sayers deserves to be more widely read. Two of my all-time favorite essays are "Why Work?" and "The Other Six Deadly Sins," both found in her book "Creed or Chaos."
Excellent essayThis should be read by everyone. This is exactly what our education systems have been lacking. If we would implement this, we would see a revitalization in the lives of our young people
Improper thinking results in waste - of life!This subject is the base of our present world situation and the cause of so much contention. Without knowing the tests of truth our children live in a world of opinion and confusion and unable to run their lives or ours.
Listened to this on audible while I was cleaning.I think she made some helpful points/comments about education and how the point shouldn't be to learn how to do specific subjects completely separated from all other subjects or even reality. But the point of education is to learn HOW to learn.
Classical academic education. Not a prescription I'm willing to make.
“For the sole end of education is simply this: to teach men how to learn for themselves; and whatever instruction fails to do this is effort spent in vain.”
Powerful introduction to Classical pedagogy. Dorothy Sayers makes a compelling case for modern education's need to return to primarily teaching the art of learning.
What can I say? This essay is the reason my kids are now getting an absolutely phenomenal education. I owe a lot to this woman. :)
Every student, teacher, and parent should read this!
Very thought provokingIf the state of education was of deep concern at the time of this lecture, how far have we drifted so many years later?
