https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311193.Duplicate_Death

A bit remiss of me to have never considered the mystery novels written by the fabulous Georgette Heyer. Thoroughly enjoyed this twisting and convolouted story in which the culprit wasn't readily apparent. A lot of interesting characters on offer who could easily have done the deed.Loved the dialogue, the setting and the premise of the mystery over all. Hemming and Grant are the Detectives called upon to solve the double murder during a game of Bridge. Lots of nefarious carrying on with the "Upper Classes" of the period. An excellent "cozy".
First, it's about 100 pages until we get to the crime and the interesting Inspector Hemingway enters the scene.
Before that, the only interesting people are the Kanes and Beulah, and we don't see enough of them.
I got to where I simply couldn't take any more of the very strong language (not shy of the strongest allowed in society in those days, with b* being the least offensive, and repeated variations of profanities), and of the insipid, nasty society people.
I skimmed to the end to find out who did the crime and what happened to Beulah and the Kanes, and called it done.
This is my first Georgette Heyer book, so I'm not familiar with her style or if her writing is meant to be serious or spoofy.
But this mystery that included lives of the idle rich in England during the 1930's was written almost as if making fun of them and that life.
Maybe reading it in this time period makes it feel so ridiculous and over the top.
Also, and I'm pretty sure this had a lot to do with why I loved this book, narrator Ulli Birvé did an AMAZING job.
In fact, I'm almost thinking about joining Audible just so I can listen to her read more of Heyer's books.
A bridge party, a guest is murdered, and the Kane family are about to learn their Timothy's love interests' secrets the hard way.Chief Inspector Hemingway has a nice puzzler on his hands.
As Hemingway sifts through the lives of the people involved a few dark secrets pop out as well as potential motives.
Then, there is another murder.I love these post-WWII era mysteries featuring the colorful and just a little eccentric Hemingway and his stolid Highland Scot assistant, Inspector Graham.
In addition to her thirty-some historical romances (and historical novels), she also wrote a dozen or so modern mysteries, which, though admittedly less popular than her romances, are still worth checking out--less because of the plots, which are rather run-of-the mill, and more because the characters are full of Heyer's usual wit and humor.Heyer mysteries have a distinctly Agatha Christie feel, often taking place at a country estate or in an upper-class home (and, in this case, during a bridge game).
This is a slow building mystery.
Yes, its Good… Except that I knew who the murderer was before I was half way through.
Did I already say that?I'd love to tell you which characters I liked, but I don't want to spoil the mystery.
In the end I was sorry for her.
But it took till the very end.
After all, a man who nobody likes is killed during a card party, and it all points to three/four people.
I guess I was hoping it would be like Why Shoot a Butler?
Though a main suspect, Beulah, is a lot like Shirley Brown in Why shoot a butler?
Another nice foray into Georgette Heyer's mystery collection. I enjoyed the return of two characters from one of Heyer's earlier books: Jim Kane and "Terrible Timothy" Harte. Timothy, an impish 14 year old in They Found Him Dead, is now all grown up, has seen action in WWII, and is now a young up and coming attorney in love with what his family believes is "the wrong sort of girl". Her name is Beulah ( BEULAH!! ) Birtley, and she's the personal assistant/secretary to the waspish socialite Mrs. H
I enjoyed the return of two characters from one of Heyer's earlier books: Jim Kane and "Terrible Timothy" Harte.
When Timothy is invited to Mrs. Haddington's home for a duplicate bridge party, his most pressing desire is to be near Beulah.
However, the strangulation murder of one of the guests puts Timothy and Beulah in the spotlight of Scotland Yard's Inspector Hemingway, who remembers Timothy from 12 years previously.The murder investigation takes Hemingway to some bleak places: cocaine smuggling, drug abuse, blackmail, illicit affairs, and hidden family secrets.
"...Mrs. Haddington's servants were at one in declaring that murders were not what they were accustomed to, or could put up with."p.
I enjoy historical romance and I like reading cosy mysteries set in the Enland of yesteryear.
No one, including Mrs. Haddington's servants want to have anything to do with murder.Inspector Hemingway has to deal with upper crust guests, flighty young women and even a gentleman he had encountered at another murder as Hemingway conducts his investigation.
I would recommend this novel to those who enjoy the England of old.
Although this is set after World War II, the characters all remember when England's empire was all-encompassing.
È proprio vero che con lei il poliziesco diventa più interessante ed avvincente.
Dame e lord, esponenti dell'alta società, diventano probabili sospettati, ma, prima che ciò accada, uno di loro deve essere la vittima.
Durante quella che doveva essere un'allegra serata, dedicata al bridge, va in scena un assassinio.
Tutti giudicano la sua prolungata assenza come una condotta alquanto scortese.
A condurre l'indagine è l’ispettore capo Hemingway di Scotland Yard.Il tempo per risolvere il caso è, come al solito, molto ristretto, poiché chi ha ucciso una volta potrebbe avere tutta l’intenzione di concedersi un bis, come annuncia clamorosamente il titolo di questo avvincente poliziesco, DELITTO CON REPLICA.
Unlike many of her mysteries where the secondary characters provide the humor and the interest and the protagonists are rather boring, in this one the good guys are the most intriguing.
Terrible Timothy from They found him Dead, makes a fine hero and has grown into a loyal, charming, and thoroughly lovable lead.
Jim and Pat make a welcome appearance, and Tim and Jim's redoubtable mother plays a significant off-screen role.
She is surely one of the more unusual heroines in any of Heyer's books.
Pretty unusual for a Heyer.
Needless to say, the secondary characters/suspects were very entertaining despite being full blown stereotypes of their roles.
Another smashing Georgette Heyer whodunnit, from 1951.
Not as good as the earlier, more action-orientated ones, but a good mystery, with a lovely topping and tailing.
Witty and well-written.The GR blurb:'An elegant card party turns deadly...Inspector Hemingway has his work cut out for him when a seemingly civilized game of Duplicate Bridge leads to a double murder.
Things become even more complicated when the fiancée of the inspector's young friend Timothy Kane becomes Hemingway's prime suspect.
Kane is determined to prove the lady's innocence-but when he begins digging into her past, he finds it's more than a little bit shady.'
Not my favourite case (Strangling, drug dealers, and a really weird young man), but still interesting and clever. I think I like Hemingway a bit more now. (view spoiler)[I liked Beuler :) (hide spoiler)]
I'm usually fine, once the writing is good, but this time Chief Inspector Hemingway, and many other characters, were so vile about homosexual characters that I found it difficult to stomach.
Maybe it just caught me on the raw what with everything that's happening now, and more knowledge of what life was like back then for a gay man, but my usual method of 'holding my nose' as I skip past the sexist, racist, anti-semitic and homophobic writing of Heyer, Christie, Marsh et al failed me this time.
Along with The Unfinished Clue, this is one of my favorite Heyer mysteries.
This is a sequel of sorts to They Found Him Dead, with Jim Kane and Timothy Harte returning along with then Sergeant (now Chief Inspector) Hemingway.
I never developed much of an appreciation for Inspector Hannasyde, who appeared in many of Heyer's mysteries including They Found Him Dead.
Hemingway is a more personable Inspector than Hannasyde - you get to see more of his deliberation as well - and Timothy is simply one of those great Heyer characters you'd be happy to see show up in any of her books.
It was a surprise to find out that she also published a number of mysteries.
I found this one to be a very good traditional style mystery.
Several were just the slightest bit mysterious to start with.
The story was extremely well plotted, and kept my interest.About halfway through the book, I was certain that I had guessed at the motive for the murder, as well as “who done it”.
True to form, Heyer included a bit of romance into this novel.
I really enjoyed this book and recommend it highly.
I am looking forward to more of Heyer’s mysteries..
This was less about the mystery and more about the time period and Timothy Harte and his brother Jim Kane.
Meeting this family in the beginning and end was more interesting than the mystery itself.
The murders which occurred, seem to be a sideline to this family.
In 1950s London a bridge party involving upper echelons of society is interrupted by the discovery of a murder.
Lots of potential suspects but motive seems to be missing.
Reading out of sequence means I have missed quite a bit of character build-up but I would read more of this author’s works.
3 stars.A bit more interesting than the previous 2 books in the series.
He's fallen in love with a girl with a shady background.
She's the personal secretary of the woman who organized a card party during which a close family friend was killed.
Whilst Hemingway is still investigating that murder, the girl's employer is also killed in the same manner...
I thought it still took too much time to get to the first murder and the reasons for the murders seem a bit flimsy.
But quite interesting to learn about life during the Depression era.
What a ghastly set of characters! I liked no one, not even the Inspector. So far this is my least favorite GH mystery.
I really tried with this, the 3rd in the Inspector Hemingway series, I've read all of the Heyer crime novels featuring Hannayside and Hemingway but I just couldn't get a way with this so I give up.
What's a little homophobia among friends? ...well, pretty dang creepy, actually. I know The Times Were Different and all, but still no. Best thing here was the return of Tim Harte, who is a delight.
Much as I hesitate to give any Georgette Heyer work a two-star rating, I just can't go any higher on this mystery.
It was much too paint-by-numbers to rate anything higher than "it was OK." For one thing, the murders are telegraphed in the most blatant way.
And since I didn't care about the characters or find their situations believable or compelling, I didn't really care who committed the murders.
The trademark Heyer light touch was also notable by its absence.
Back in the days when I used to read and re-read Heyer's romances, I never had any use for the mysteries.
I love the hero Timothy Kane and Beulah Birtley is such an interesting heroine.
She had a raw deal in life and has no reason to trust the police so naturally she doesn't come across very well when a man she dislikes is murdered in her employers house.Having read all this series, I enjoyed meeting Timothy's brother Jim again as well as Inspector Hemingway who was the Sergeant in an earlier story when Timothy was 14 and Jim was the hero with a love interest.It was an interesting snapshot of post-war Britain with glimpses of society, the communist underground and drug peddling.
Timothy Harte is once again crossing paths with Inspector Hemingway.
She's not, but she does have a secret past that complicates things when she becomes wrapped up in a murder that happens during a bridge party at her employers house.Mrs. Haddington was a social climber of the first order.
She wants to make sure that her daughter marries the best man possible and she has Timothy Harte in her sights.
Was the man involved with Mrs. Haddington's daughter?
Then another murder occurs and it's up to Inspector Hemingway to figure out if it's the mysterious Ms. Bitley or someone else.
I am a huge Georgette Heyer fan.I really enjoyed this book.
I know some people have quibbles with it and I worry that I rate too many books too high.But, as I said, I really enjoyed it.
The characters and some of the dialog are just so entertaining!
To me the mystery is almost incidental, although I didn't guess the solution, I almost never can.
The mystery involves the murder of one of the guests at a bridge party.
Two of the main characters appeared in an earlier mystery which I will now go back and read.
I don't know when I last read this, but it's as fresh as ever. Heyer's humor is the best, with Inspector Hemingway as the chief detective. Murders at and after a bridge party account for the titl, with a confusing cast of characters, of course. Dorothy Sayers said, "Miss Heyer's characters and dialogue are an abiding delight to me," and many people agree with her, including Agatha Christie, Ngaio Marsh, my mother, and me.
This book is set in post-WW2 England, unlike most of her mysteries and involves blackmail, society, scandal and drug-dealing.While this is one of my least favorite stories when it comes to plot, I adore the book because we revisit old friends from They Found Him Dead, namely Jim Kane and his now wife of 13 years, Patricia, and Jim's half-brother, Timothy Harte, aka Terrible Timothy, who is one-half of the obligatory romantic couple.
This book has some of the characters from They Found Him Dead. The mystery aspect isn't bad, the by play between Hemingway and his assistant is amusing, and there are a couple of appealing characters, but I didn't think it nearly as much fun as some of her earlier ones. It's competently done, but there's a "going through the motions" feel to it I think.
I rarely read a book with a plot this fascinating to follow. The characters were pretty good, if a bit stereotyped. There is clever conversation and humor, which I always enjoy. The whole thing hangs together wonderfully.
Never having read any of Georgette Heyer's work, I seem to be having a splurge of her crime novels. As a writer of tales of terribly nice people who just happen to do horrible things to themselves, I don't think anyone comes close to Georgette Heyer.
