https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89187.Revelation_Space
Hamilton's characters run the gamut of loveable to outright villainous; Reynolds prefers to write mainly about self-absorbed killers and assholes.
so i guess it depends on your perspective: do you want your space opera glass to be half-full or half-empty?overall, i think this is a pretty good first novel.
it can get a bit oppresive at times.there is an interesting theme that slowly rises up through the narrative: the obsessive-compulsive nature of humanity.
imagine a horrific version of the end of 2001: A Space Odyssey, one where the unknowable enigma wants to kill you and all of your stupid little species.
The most elaborate resolution of the Fermi paradox that I've ever come across.
This book is dense with huge concepts that are very difficult to wrap your mind around, and it makes you try over and over again.
Xenoarchaeology, transhumanism, artificial intelligence, stellar manipulation, black hole manipulation, quantum entanglement, quantum computing, quantum simulation, spacetime fissures, etc.
All of this plus one of the most complicated and satisfying mysteries in modern science fiction, unfolding in a fully realized universe complete with a billion years of history.I need a fluffy, simple story after finishing this.
I loved it, but my brain is toast for a while.
This is the Revelation Space universe and it is about as detailed as a Bosch painting and almost as dark.That’s, to me at least, the great draw of Reynolds’ narrative prose – NOT dystopian (gag me with a slide rule) but not Heinleinesque peachy neither.
This describes our sweaty future selves living and dying in the future, but more or less human nature does not change and we are carrying on as always in our cynical and self-destructive ways.And there are aliens.Reynolds’ aliens are the Bradbury Martian types, with civilizations long gone and thoroughly misunderstood.
Initially I was concerned about the absence of humor, moments of levity is always good to balance the mood of the novel, fortunately, Mr. Reynolds sneaked some humorous moments in later, especially with some snarky AI comments.This is a worthwhile read and I am interested to read more of Alastair Reynolds in the near future (within this epoch).____________________________________
Again, it is a tremendous read and highly recommended.Update: October 3, 2015I finally read Absolution Gap, the last volume of the Revelation Space trilogy, it is also very good, but Redemption Ark is the best of the three books.The best Alastair Reynolds novel is (IMO) the standalone House of Suns.
This is literally how this book went:(very conservative mildly interested voice) "By George, Sam, I think someone just vaporized Joe, with a trans-numatic ray gun.
(very conservative mildly interested voice) "Sally wasn't Joe your husband of 20 years?
And didn't he discover the Polaris phenomenon, which allowed man to transmigrate his conscience awareness to the ocean of abysmal writing?" 20 minute info dump containing quasi-scientific speculation on transmigration of one's awareness to the ocean of abysmal writing, which is far too vast and complex for human understanding (according to the author).(very conservative mildly interested voice) "Why yes, I did loved him, he just insisted on having his own ideas about things, and was so cardboard that we won't even notice he's not around anymore, because we all act just like him.
At the same time, I think people like a personal touch, I know I do.
Reynolds may possibly be known more for being hard sci-fi, but to be honest, I barely know the difference.
The factions of humanity is also completely believable, from those who love all the gadgetry and implant it all over themselves (Ultras), to those who enhance their minds so much with machinery that they reach enlightenment (Conjoiners).At times I was purely in awe of Reynolds' imagination.
It's a great read and one I would definitely recommend, but I think I was expecting more after this long of a wait (nothing of which Reynolds could do anything about of course).
While Sylveste works the lighthugger (a near-lightspeed starship) Nostalgia for Infinity approaches Resurgam, its menacing crew seeking Silveste's help while the secrets within the vessel's mile-long bulk threaten to spill out with devastating effect.What Sylveste discovers on Resurgam will illuminate the reasons behind the strange absence of intelligent life in the galaxy and set in motion one of the most interesting Science Fiction series in the genre.Even ten years after reading this many of Revelation Space's amazing set pieces and concepts are still vivid in my mind.
Characters are described schizophrenically as bad-ass future space-farers who, in their centuries of life, have seen and participated in much routine violence & destruction, yet in the next paragraph experience horror and remorse at comparatively minor atrocities they must do by logic or circumstances -- without any kind of justification for merging these two facets together to form cohesive human beings.For example, one main character spends decades traveling through the cosmos seeking to cure her Captain from a disgusting plague, yet barely cares whether her fellow space-crew -- along whose side she had worked and lived for decades -- are alive or dead.
The picture painted here – of a lonely universe, full of space and mysteries and still limited by barriers like the speed of light – feels distinctly plausible and, presumably, owes a lot to Reynolds's day-job as a working astrophysicist.There are other good points.
Thanks Christ, here is a sci-fi author who writes good, strong women characters who are not just there to have a variety of unlikely futuristic sexual encounters.
But it was like the calm that existed on the metallic hydrogen oceans of the gas giant planets further out from Pavonis – only maintained by crushing pressures from above and below.I think that might be the worst paragraph I've read all year.
The star of the show for me, and arguably what kept me on the hook through the first half of the story was the Nostalgia for Infinity  - a “lighthugger” ie a spaceship capable of travelling at near light speed.
Once it held hundreds of thousands of travelers in cryosleep, but now it is crewed by a mere handful of militaristic types consisting of three Ultra’s,( ie part human part machine chimerics (cyborgs?) who have designed themselves for the rigours of living in deep space) as well as a couple of extras who the Ultra’s have usually kidnapped and subjugated with “loyalty implants.” And then there is the Captain - who is something else again, an extreme chimeric that could only be called human in the loosest sense of the word - One scary dude.
I read Revelation Space back when the Rust Belt was still the Glitter Band (ho ho) so, again, I have to reserve some judgement regarding the literary aspects of the novel.
I also liked the apparently unrelated plots, separated quite literally by time and space, which eventually interwove and culminated as a single thread.
I’m a bit of a sucker for xeno-archaelogical mysteries and artifacts in Science Fiction, so these aspects of the novel, in particular, appealed to me.Reynolds held me in thrall with his vision; I devoured all the sequels and prequels that were subsequently published.
This was a great read if you're looking for a fully fleshed out setting populated by one delightfully egotistical protagonist/villain and equally morally suspect crew of an ultra's spacecraft.
It took some time to get into many of the characters, but by the end it was worth it.
I loved the ending so much that I picked up the next in the series, even though I knew that they were only tangentially related.Definitely books for when you need to throw yourself fully into an escapist space.
It may not be the best I've ever read, but it was very fun.
This was quite enjoyable, and another book in the "I liked it but didn't love it" file.
Revelation Space is a sprawling trip through time (in only one direction) through a universe filled with unknown and unknowable aliens, human factions, and a dead world, killed aeons ago by a solar flare that might or might not have been related to the spacefaring contingent of that world - according to the main character, Dan Sylveste, at least.
No one else believes him.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Science itself has come a long way since then as well, so it behooves the SF genre to evolve with it.Of the new British SF Invasion members, I think Reynolds and Hamilton are the most prolific and prominent names, and most interestingly, I have been told that they are diametrically opposed in their tone and approach: the far-future universes of Reynolds are generally dark, pessimistic, and frightening places, where the humans themselves are so technologically advanced that they no longer seem human; in contrast, while Hamilton creates incredibly vast and complex galactic milieus, his human characters remain familiar enough that we can cheer for them.
(Review from Mar 08, 2011, which had somehow ended up as a comment, rather than a review.)An epic "hard" sci-fi space opera (so my son tells me), with links to some of Reynolds' other novels, but which works well as a standalone book too.It opens with three separate storylines, which gradually come together: Dan Sylveste, an archaeologist, researching the extinct Amarantin of the planet Resurgam; a spaceship crewed by ultras, with a sick captain in reefersleep and the triumvirate jostling for power; an assassin recruited in Chasm City on Yellowstone.
I debated whether to write a review of Revelation Space on its own or wait until I finished the Revelation Space trilogy and write a single review of the whole story. This is a debate that goes on in my head any time I read a multi-book series and I haven't established a blanket policy one way or the other. For me, it depends.Take, for example, Dan Simmons'  Ilium  and  Olympos . They are really one book that was split arbitrarily because it was too long to publish in a single volume. Think LotR
.The Revelation Space series, in my mind, is more like the latter example, where the books have an overarching theme and storyline but still make good stand-alone stories.
Revelation Space in particular deserves its own review because, not only does it make a good stand-alone book, it also expertly sets up the framework for a universe that Alastair Reynolds will use for five novels and two short-story collections (indeed I hope that's just the start).Revelation Space is not perfect by any means.
Fortunately The Prefect is a completely self-contained story (not part of the Revelation Space trilogy), set in only one corner of Reynolds' fictional future universe, so I had no trouble understanding it.
There are lots of interesting ideas related to how humans get around in the vast emptiness of space.
Like Iain Banks, Reynolds also uses the idea of a level of sentience in machines and does some interesting things with it.
The whole thing is a bit noir and at times there is a clautrophobic feel.
However the very end of the book is a bit of a fudge, but as it's the first part of a trilogy, that is forgiveable.
If you like your sci-fi a bit gothic and on a big scale with big ideas, then this may be for you.
I don't know if it will be on everyone's taste, for it is not quite full of action.
The focus is mainly on the choices which have to be made, the struggle behind those choices and human behaviour when faced with major difficulties.But, if I were to describe it with one word, this would be unpredictable.
Yes, you can guess where is going, but there are turnarounds at every corner and not everyone is what's supposed to be.Highly recommended.
"Revelation Space" takes place in the 26th century, when humans have achieved space travel and can journey vast distances in 'lighthugger' ships that fly at almost the speed of light.The story opens on the planet Resurgam, which was inhabited by the Amarantin civilization until nine hundred thousand years ago.
Dan Sylveste once came aboard the Nostalgia to treat the Captain (with dead Calvin's help).....and the crew wants the archaeologist to help Brannigan once again.
The book is almost 600 pages long, and there's plenty of techno-speak that describes planets, stars, spaceships, shuttles, weapons, bionic devices, alien races, alien artifacts, space-time, objective time, subjective time, alpha and beta 'copies' of dead people, sophisticated spacesuits, esoteric discoveries, etc.
Put simply, there are a lot of "WOW" moments where I said "this guy is brilliant." Also on the level of a 5 star novel is the plot itself, which is complex, slowly unfolding and very, very good.
The only aspect of the book that kept it me from giving it a 5 star or higher rating was the characterization.
Still, overall, this was a superb 21st century space opera and the authors ability to wow readers with original concepts and amazing technology is as good as it gets.
Does Reynolds get a lot of inspiration from films?
Chasm City's Mulch is reminiscent of Blade Runner.
John Brannigan's Nostalgia for Infinity ends up looking like the Alien queen did the decor.
Reynolds openly admits that much of the inspiration for his finest work, Diamond Dogs, comes from gorno movies.Some writers slowly develop into good novelists over a span of several, even a dozen, books.
Others burst into print with a debut novel that shows a full grasp of the technicalities of writing.
Reynolds is one of the latter, his only mistake in this debut novel being that none of the main protagonists is sympathetic.

Reynolds has an attractive habit of trying to end each major scene in the novel with some sort of cliffhanger or interesting hint, and an equally unattractive habit of then giving us the conclusion or the revelation as a flashback within a future scene.
For a hypothetical example, imagine a scene ending with a character staring at a bomb that is about to explode.
One thing I will grant Revelation Space is that it, moreso than any other science fiction novel I've ever read, does a bang-up job of simultaneously expressing how imponderably huge our galaxy is, and yet how very, very small it is on a universal scale.
The Good:Awesome characters, awesome setting, awesome ideas, awesome awesome awesome.
I haven’t read much hard scifi (this has no FTL travel but it does have aliens and other weird theoretical shit so how hard can it really be?) because I assume it makes for boring stories about physics.
Revelation Space was not boring.
This is set about 550 years in the future, and it is about people, incredibly driven and well resourced people – ones that might even resemble people you’ve sat next to on the bus.
There’s a gigantic haunted spaceship for fucks sake!The Bad:The ending was a bit WTF.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Everyone in this story is pretty dark and ruthless.
Jedan dobar primjerak "tvrdog" SF-a.Kako je Reynolds astrofizičar osnova za dobar znanstveni dio je postojala i odlično je iskorištena.Prilično brzo me je "kupio" na početku time što ne podilazi i tetoši čitatelja.Već na samom početku lagano ispaljuje rečenicu otprilike "živjeli su u geodezijskoj kupoli" bez ikakvog objašnjenja.Ako ne znam što je geodezijska kupola onda baš i ne pripadam u ovaj SF podžanr, a ako sam početnik onda ću lako pretražiti internet.Isto vrijedi i kada zađe u kvantnu fiziku.
Vrlo rijetko je nešto kratko objašnjavao.Drugi trenutak je bio kod uvođenja glavnog ženskog lika (koji je u biti i glavni lik knjige) kroz atmosferu čistog Blade Runner grada.Kasnije sam ovo potvrdio i u recenzijama drugih čitatelja (koje ne konsultiram prije nego sam formiram mišljenje o knjizi)Svijet koji je Reynolds zamislio je vrlo zanimiljiv.
There's 550 pages of intricate plotting here, so I'll just say it's a hard SF novel that jumps from an archaeological expedition to an alien plague to quantum mechanics to neuroprogramming.The good: Women!
Over-stretched dramatics.I think hard SF is like a gecko.
I'm like, "ooh, you're an awfully cool little reptile, aren't you?" and it totally is, but at a certain point I start thinking, "you know, my dog is nice and furry.
A Space Opera Mystery story... I need more of these in my life!
This hardcover copy is signed by Alastair Reynolds.
From the purely personal of half a dozen well painted characters, the story immerses us in several societies & describes more, both past & present.
Lies of omission are often the worst since they contain enough truth to fool everyone so thoroughly.The story expands still further until it encompasses galaxies & billions of years & then it tightens back down into the purely personal again.
This isn't a story so much as an epic SF quest for the Holy Grail where Sir Gawain doesn't really exist ...
There are certainly plenty of perspectives to go around.Overall, it was a fantastic story, so why only 3 stars?
As for the ending, in the rapid crush of trying to wind it all down I neither sufficiently appreciated how cleverly Reynolds brought things to a head, nor how silly that whole Walkin' on the Moon...Da do do coda was.
If only Reynolds had cut that final cropping of picnic basket dunciad, Revelation Space would have ended on a high note—well, after I learned what happened to Khouri and Ilia.
