https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32335977-saints-for-all-occasions
Nora feels like it is her responsibility to take care of Theresa and so when Nora's fiance moves to the US Nora asks him to send for both her and Theresa.
Theresa is excited for all the opportunities available to her and begins to pursue her education, meanwhile Nora struggles with her new life and promise to marry Charlie.
Then when Theresa makes a mistake Nora steps up to take care of it and Theresa which means having to marry Charlie.
I do think its really unfair of Theresa though to try and make the decision for Nora about telling Patrick because it doesn't feel like it's her place to do so anymore.
4.5. I has been quite a while since I have read a family generational novel, a family drama if you will, though in this the drama is kept to a minimum, at least in the telling. Two sisters, Nora 21 and Theresa arrive from Ireland, they have traveled alone so that Nora can marry her boyfriend who had arrived previously. Let's just say that things do not work out as planned and the two sisters will take different paths, but always connected by a secret.I loved the way this story was told, so natur
Let's just say that things do not work out as planned and the two sisters will take different paths, but always connected by a secret.I loved the way this story was told, so natural and unassuming.
The way the author uses the framing of a death to tell her story of lives lived.
Fell in love with these characters, their past, their personalities, flawed and so very real, felt as if they could he family members we get to know them so well.
Was quite sad to let these characters go, but so glad to have read their story.
Every now and then a book comes along that is so good you think the author must have written it "with just ME in Mind" Well I think courtney Sullivan wrote this book just for me as I loved every moment spent with this novel and I am starting to miss the characters already.image: The Story of Irish Immigration is always close to my heart and I never tire of Non fiction accounts or Historical fiction done well and not too IRISHED up.
I loved the characters of Nora and Theresa and their complicated relationships with each other and their families.
Nora and Theresa are sisters — They are different as sisters can be ( anybody who has a sister ‘directly’ understands - or a mother of two daughters knows this first hand too).....So- it’s no different in Courtney Sullivan’s novel: Nora is the older sister- considers herself responsible - accountable- and I might add contributed to her sister and children’s suffering - suppression- and secrets.
As a pure family relationship novel - it was as excellent as any I’ve read.....but with the added element of this Irish Catholic World....It was inspiring to know that religious conservative taboos were changing - and continued to change.
4.5 for this Irish Catholic family drama. Nora and her sister Theresa are very young and are coming over to America from Ireland, Nora on the promise of marriage to a childhood friend and Theresa to hopefully become a teacher. Things don't go smoothly and we see such sacrifice, and learn about the unbreakable bonds of family.
4.5 StarsLove, dreams, sacrifice and family are the themes at the core of Courtney Sullivan’s latest novel, ” Saints for All Occasions,”  a story of two families from the small village of Miltown Malbay in Ireland, whose children leave their village for the hopes and dreams associated with a new life in America. One family sends their son ahead to set his new life in motion, so that when his bride-to-be and her sister arrive, everything will be easier for them. Beginning in the year 1957, this t
a story of two families from the small village of Miltown Malbay in Ireland, whose children leave their village for the hopes and dreams associated with a new life in America.
A family secret that will be carried on for years begins, and fifty years later, Nora is the reigning matriarch of this family, with her four children grown, all raised and schooled in the Catholic Church.
4+ stars!A multi-generational family saga that follows two Irish sisters, Nora and Theresa, who immigrate to the U.S. from Ireland at a young age.
One sister, the quiet, responsible one, arrives to wed through a pre-arranged marriage, while the other sister is a free spirit.
Not surprisingly they take different paths in life, some quite surprising.
Decisions are made and secrets are kept that have a life-long impact and threaten family bonds.
I love the way the author writes, in a quiet, unassuming way that is deeply emotional.
I enjoyed the alternate points of view and fell in love with this family, flaws and all.Highly recommended!
Somewhere between    Brooklyn    by Colm Tóibín and    Did You Ever Have A Family    by Bill Clegg,  The Saints for All Occasions nestles comfortably into the family drama genre. Nora and Theresa Flynn left Miltown Malbay in Ireland for Boston, America. Nora, the serious, responsible, shy twenty-one year old girl, promised to marry Charles Rafferty upon her arrival, but insisted on taking her seventeen-year-old sister with her since she promised her mother to take care of her siblings when the l
Nora, the serious, responsible, shy twenty-one year old girl, promised to marry Charles Rafferty upon her arrival, but insisted on taking her seventeen-year-old sister with her since she promised her mother to take care of her siblings when the latter passed away many years earlier.
Thus began this family saga of two sisters in America, and the path their lives would take in the Fifties.
What I really loved about this book is the deeply humane characters and the analysis of each person's story.
The experience left them more grounded in their own lives, and changed the way they knew their mother Nora.
Courtney Sullivan's other three novels, I really, really liked Saints for All Occasions.
The story is focused around two sisters, Nora and Theresa, and the decisions they make that shape the rest of their lives, including other family members as they get older and the family grows.
The story alternates between the past and the present and this is executed very well.
One decision could stay with you forever, and yet you could live through almost anything."I enjoy well-done family dramas and Saints for All Occasions was no exception.
This is the kind of book you will either love or hate.
Or you'll hate it because you keep waiting for a plot to go somewhere, for something dramatic to happen, for some kind of revelation.
If there are two 'weaknesses' I have when it comes to books, it would be epistolary novels and character-study novels.
I don't want to say too much more about this, because the book's "plot" doesn't have much to spoil so it's best to go into this kind of blind.
But I will say if you like this kind of thing, check out my character-study-plot shelf, you might find some other books you'd enjoy!
Big families, lots of laughing, vivacious, red-headed, outgoing people with great lilting accents.
Again, all fictional, I never knew any actual Irish.Saints for All Occasions gave me all those things, and a great story besides.
Secrets and lies, things we don't know that change trajectories of lives, unbeknownst to the characters involved.
Lovable, flawed characters that I cared about because, as a reader, I knew things that others did not.
Such great dialogue: "Live long enough, and life teaches you that God is not your lucky rabbit foot".
BUT, I had already started it and didn't want to bring a halfway finished book on my 2 week vacation (booknerd problems?).I do not remember this author's writing holding this much clout, but man was I wrong.
This book brings us to the shores of Ireland when sisters- Theresa & Nora Flynn grow up, make mistakes, and decide to immigrate over to Massachusetts.
My heart grew and broke over and over again watching these families self destruct in ways only families can.
I'm so impressed with Sullivan's writing and the slow way she built this novel.
Enjoyed!
I loved both Nora and Theresa.
Their rocky relationship was heartbreaking, but understandable given the circumstances.
This novel is most importantly about family and the sacrifices made that are sometimes never realized.
It is funny how no matter how old you are, when you’re back with the people & places from your youth you are immediately transported back to the person you felt you were then.
I’m not sure that I’m completely satisfied with how it ended...
I wanted more closure.
However, maybe Sullivan ended it this way so that we as readers could decide our own vision of how the story ends.
4.5 stars.
There are many elements of this story that readers have seen a zillion times before: Irish immigrants settling into life in America, once-close sisters divided by secrets, a family gathering to mourn as each member ruminates on his or her own baggage.
Even the characters are variations on familiar themes: the unfeeling Irish mother, a washed-up baseball player running a Boston bar, and a golden boy son working on a political campaign for a Republic Mormon looking to be governor of Massachusetts.
I would like to thank Edelweiss, Knopf Publishing, and J. Courtney Sullivan for the advanced digital copy in exchange for an honest review. 1950's Ireland where teenagers Nora and her sister Theresa, embark on a journey to Boston, seeking a better life. Nora reluctantly accepts her boyfriends marriage proposal only after she discovers her younger sister pregnant, with the intention of adopting Theresa's baby. This tale spans multiple decades, covering the life choices that each of these women make. Although I was not impressed with the story itself, the writing was stellar.
A family saga novel about two Irish sisters who travel to America to make a new life.
Her sister, Theresa, joyfully starts a new life but Nora is homesick and hesitant.
Nora and Charlie go on to have four children and Theresa surprisingly becomes a cloistered nun.
They go their separate ways.At 50, Nora's oldest son, Patrick is killed and the family reunites for his wake and funeral.
There's nothing new, nothing really insightful, and nothing that really holds your attention.
I just kept wishing the funeral would end.
Still if you life family sagas, you might enjoy this
The first seventy or so pages of this Irish family saga is concise, droll, tough, and tender, and introduces us to immigrants Nora Flynn and younger sister Theresa, who moved from Ireland to Boston (Dorchester) in the mid-1950s.
Nora, 21 and four years older than Theresa, has been very protective of her younger sister since their mother died.
But over fifty years later, Nora remains near Boston, while Theresa is a cloistered nun in Vermont.As the novel opens, it is 2009, and Nora is the mother of four adult children.
I listened to the audio version of this book and thoroughly enjoyed it. Family drama, secrets, relationships.....how they all form us, especially the secrets we don't even know.I like an immigration story. Within the family story, is the story of making a new life in a strange & new land. The difficulties and joys of this are blended with the difficulties and joys of raising a family, finding a source of contentment, finding a purpose in Life. This family is full of interesting, delighful people who we want to get to know
Sullivan brings to life the Irish Catholic world. She starts out in 2009 and takes us back to the late 1950s and what Irish immigrants experienced coming to the United States. An amazing portrayal of women. Such a fascinating look into the past. The story is complex, interesting, filled with culture and religion, including the journey of becoming a nun. Family relationships are an integral part of this novel—their dynamics and complexity intertwined in Catholicism. I learned a lot.Highly recommend!
Now she's headed to Boston to be married to their former Irish neighbor, Charlie, whom Nora doesn't really even love.
Both Nora and Theresa are forced to make some drastic life decisions that will affect them for the rest of their lives.
Fifty years later, in 2009, Nora and Charlie have four children: John, Bridget, Brian, and Patrick.
The novel switches between the past, starting with Nora and Theresa's journey to Boston, and 2009, with a shocking event that rocks the entire family.
We hear from each character--Nora, Theresa, John, Bridget, Brian, and Patrick.
Overall, I just loved this beautiful story of parenthood, immigration, siblings, religion, and so much more.
In fact, from the outside, nothing about this story seems noteworthy: Irish Catholics settle in Boston; they drink too much; they struggle with the church; they gather for a loved one’s wake.That sounds as fresh as a pint of last week’s Guinness.Which makes this quiet masterpiece all the more impressive.
In a simple style that never commits a flutter of extravagance, Sullivan draws us into the lives of the Raffertys, and in the rare miracle of fiction makes us care about them like they were our own family.Perhaps the most impressive aspect of this novel is its.
3.5 *'s. This one started out great but then got really slow for me. I was left at the end thinking, "That's it?" It's a story about a family secret, hidden for many years. This is definitely my type of book and I enjoyed Sullivan's writing style as usual. It was just a little too quiet for me and I did not develop an attachment to the characters like I usually do.
The best book J Courtney Sullivan has written and I really liked her previous books. It's the story of 2 sisters who come over from Ireland and settle in Boston. Such a great story and I didn't want it to end. Not coming out until the end of June but well worth the wait!
I loved this book. Great family drama! I liked how the author referenced the title throughout the book, which gave me a greater understanding of the meaning behind the title. The Catholic girl in me enjoyed the depiction of life within a convent and how that life has changed and evolved with the church. I'm not sure if I loved or disliked the ending. I think the only reason I may have disliked it is that I didn't want the book to end. Great read!
It involves two sisters from Ireland, Nora and Theresa, who were 21 and 17 respectively when they came to the US in the 1950s.
They end up not communicating to each other for thirty years until Patrick's death.This is a novel of character, each one beautifully drawn and realized.
It also deals with the Irish culture--the Catholicism, the hard drinking, the bad jokes, and the inability to truly express how one feels.
These people truly care for each other, they just can't express that love to each other.
It's only May, but this is my favorite novel of the year, and I won't be surprised if it still is by the end of December.
From County Clare, the girls moved to Boston together in the late 1950s: Nora to join Charlie, the fiancé she didn’t really love, and Theresa to have a chance at a new and exciting life.
We meet and spend much time with Nora’s children, especially John, who worked on the campaigns of a suspiciously Mitt Romney-esque figure and adopted a daughter from China with his wife; and Bridget, who’s planning to have a baby with her partner Natalie but hasn’t come out to her mother yet.I’m not sure I ever gave this book a fair shake; from the earliest pages it reminded me so strongly of other Irish-American family stories I’ve read: Mary Costello’s Academy Street, Anne Enright’s The Green Road, Nick Laird’s Modern Gods, Maggie O’Farrell’s This Must Be the Place, and Colm Tóibín’s Brooklyn.
‘Isn’t there anything you like about Boston?’ Nora thought it over.
The story opens in 2009 with Nora Rafferty on her way to the hospital where Patrick, viewed by his siblings as the favoured son, is in hospital.
Maybe though for me, it suffered a little initially, as it is the third book in a row I have read about families with Irish characters.
Once I did, I wanted to keep reading, even though at times I struggled to relate to the family dynamics.
This is an in depth exploration of several generations of this Boston family that has its roots in Irish Catholicism and makes for a good and involving read.
Nora, 21, is going to join and marry Charlie, a young man from her hometown in Ireland.
well, Theresa has always been in the care of Nora since their mother died when they were young children so it didn't seem like an option for her to stay in Ireland with her father and brother.
Sullivan has written a touching (but never sappy) story of the fates of these sisters and their children.
The story of their lives in the States is told in retrospect over the course of four days in 21st century Boston after the death of the oldest son, Patrick, now in his 50s.
The only one who had a right to act like a victim was Charlie, he was the one who thought he was marrying someone who loved and wanted him, instead he was stuck with a dull, ungrateful shrew who more or less hated him.
Even Patrick's death was all about her and her feelings, other people loved and missed him but somehow she made it just about her.I don't know why Nora acted so hard done by when she adopted Patrick.
