https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1042528.Down_the_Santa_Fe_Trail_and_into_Mexico
From that point on her health forced the Magoffins to spend lengthy stays along the way in order to allow her to recover from various ailments.Despite the travails of the trail and her illnesses, Susan’s natural curiosity led her to faithfully write in her journal almost every day, in which she described everything: hardships, land and climate, flora and fauna, and people, including the Indians and Mexicans that she encountered.In addition to her writing about her miscarriage at Bent’s Fort, she had this to say about her stay there:“There is no place on Earth I believe where man lives and gambling in some form or other is not carried on.
The book is deemed significant by historians as a type of who’s who of the American frontier: in all truth it seems like the story of Susan Shelby Magoffin, “an intelligent, observant, & tolerant person with a genuine inquisitive nature” (xiv) is simply an excuse to showcase the various small biographies of the various men she happened to have met on the trail.
This is a journal written by Susan Magoffin which tells her journey from Missouri all the way down to Mexico through Colorado, along parts of the Rocky Mountains.
She has the sense of being very curious about her surroundings and of the people she meets throughout the entire work, incorporating new information (such as the way mules act, or Spanish language) within her narrative.
Because this was written in 1846, she has a keen insight to the workings of the Mexican American War, with personal experiences with several of the key players.
But because of the timing of her journey, this becomes something else entirely.
The weakness of real diaries (those solely recorded for the consolation or amusement of the writer)is the lack of structure -- stuff just happens, but their strength is the truth of their sentiments.
Susan Magoffin is an amazingly attractive personality, a close observer of the trail (nature and people), and sensitive to the danger and cruelty of the war as her caravan moves closer to the scenes of battle.
There are wonderful moments -- Stephen Kearny flirting, climbing an overlook to realize she is alone and unarmed in the middle of Indian country, her gradual acceptance and then delight at Mexican customs, but the diary ends suddenly in media res.
Annotated diary of Susan Shelby Magoffin, who set off on the Santa Fe Trail at the age of 18 with her husband Samuel.
As with many trail journals, her story has long dry spells, but is interesting when she encounters new places and cultures.
It provided a lot of historical context, but consisted almost exclusively of biographies and anecdotes about men they encountered along the way, which diminished the author’s point of view.
On the other hand, maybe it’s just as well… I’m still reeling from this journal excerpt: “The only way to treat a turbulent domestic is to look above them too much to answer them back, or even to hear their impudence, till it becomes correctable by the rod.”
This is such a good first person account of what life was like in the mid-1840s in what is now New Mexico and Texas. Her observations and descriptions, truly paint a picture of how people lived. The historical context from editor Stella Madeleine Drumm is so helpful in filling in the blanks, and broadening the over all picture. I highly recommend this to anyone interested in the history of the Southwest US.
If you love history, I would highly suggest reading diaries or accounts of the day written by people during the time.
You get an unfiltered highly personalized story that is much more exciting as they are living it rather than a dusty set of facts with possibly an author's political agenda coloring their interpretation of events.Newlywed to veteran Santa Fe trader, Samuel Maggofin, 18 yr.
old Susan Magoffin's humorous wit and enthusiasm for her great adventure traversing the Santa Fe Trail is infectious.
If you are interested in early American history during the time of expansion to the west, you will truly enjoy this book.
This book was assigned reading in a United States history class.The instructor was very much into the "oral history" genre,and much preferred we read the lives of common, unexceptional people rather than "the movers and shakers" of the nation.
So, being rather common and ordinary myself, and as oral as the next fellow, I found this book very dry, unrelatable, somewhat irrelevant in terms of the ebb and flow of the nation as a whole.
I am afraid I did not like it, despite struggling to identify with the writer, to empathize with the events and experiences, and to discover an underlying value that would redeem the personal life of an ordinary citizen as a window on National Politics, Economics, Culture, and Philosophy.
Fascinating look into life in the mid-1840's on the Santa Fe Trail.
Also, an American view of the war with Mexico, showing just how slow and bad information was.
The book is enhanced by the original editor's footnotes identifying the persons mentioned in the diary.
These footnotes flesh out what might otherwise be a thin story line.Note on second reading: overall just as much fun as I remembered.
Her notes on spiritual conviction to come to Christ I did not remember.
The diary did not contain a final resolution of her thoughts and decisions in this regard.
Interesting reading -- for those who are interested (anyway...) in that time, era, history and a kind of close-up shot of US-Mexico relations and military history at that time.
As the blurb (or was it the foreword?) notes, the average modern American reader may recognize nobody but the name of Zachary Taylor or Kearney (nowadays -- and I stress 'average,' perhaps like me...).
But extensive footnotes that sometimes even crowd out the main page contents themselves are filled with 'mini-biographical notes' on the American explorers, guides, 'big' Western merchants/traders, and military men of that era -- notes that are very interesting all by themselves.
Interesting account of a 19 year old woman married to a successful and respected merchant who detailed their crossing of the Sante Fe trail from Independence Missouri to New Mexico over the course of a year.
This was the first recorded trip by a female and was not without significant danger as the Indians were attacking wagon trains along the route and the Mexicans Texans and New Mexicians were fighting over the area.
The battle for the Alamo was only 10 years before and Santa Ana and other Mexican generals' attacks were still a concern.
I like to pick up local books from local bookshops when I travel.
Picked this up in Santa Fe -- pretty interesting diary account of a young woman who traveled with her husband along the Santa Fe trail during the westward expansion of the US.
An unfiltered account of her experiences on the Great Plaines and into the Southwest -- interesting to hear about the day-to-day life of that time: what she saw, ate, experienced, who she interacted with, etc.
The first portion of the book, while she was traveling across the Great Plaines, was reminiscent of Laura Ingalls Wilder books.
Reflecting a young brides innocence & enthisiasm, S Magoffin writes of her fears, isolation & adventure traveling in 1846 through the New Mexico territory and into Mexico with her husband, troupes of merchant wagons & frequently military escort. The journal is supplemented with extensive footnotes detailing people, places & events. As published, it is a good historical depiction of the era & places.
I enjoyed this book... however.. I can see how anyone who has not experienced the Southwest in an open manner (driving as I did, hiking, biking or whatever) would be a little bored with it unless you are serious history buff. I was able to think of my own experiences at some of the same spots and picture in my head what this young girl was going through. It was interesting and informative.
The history of Santa Fe is interesting because it mixed so many cultures, Indian, Mexican, Spanish,and American. The author of the diary, Susan Magoffin, was among the first white ladies in New Mexico. As she had an important husband, she met a fascinating cast of characters from each culture group, as they came to "call". The backdrop of the Spanish-American war adds interest.
I had to read this book for my New Mexico History class. I thought it was a pretty good read. I had keep reminding myself that it was a real woman's diary, since NM wasn't part of the US at the time of her travels. I thought it was pretty informative of the life in NM at that time and all through her journey to Mexico.
bought this text at old Bent's fort, it shows the development of the trade route, and the Santa Fe trail, the trials and the tribulations of the adventurous souls who blazed the western trails, for wealth and power, and some place to call home
Never could get through this. The font was very difficult and there were too many footnotes (sometimes 1/2 the page)making the reading choppy. Might have been good, but there ae other great books to read!
An interesting read written by an educated woman. My goodness but she experienced quite an adventure. I read the library book and later acquired a copy for my own shelves.I'm sure I would enjoy her story even more now that I have a better understanding of western history.
This book has been in print for many years for a reason. It's a quite a vivid account. When you realize how young the author was when she wrote the book, it's even more impressive.
This was a struggle to get through. Too many notes!! I think I would have enjoyed it more if I skipped the notes and read straight through.
This is a must read for anyone interested in southwestern history.
A very important journal that captures a moment in time that we can only imagine now. Wonderful at times with a clear coming-of-age feel throughout the book.
I enjoyed this book thoroughly. Recounts the daily life of the travels of a merchant's wife down the Santa Fe trail near the beginning of the Mexican American War. Very interesting.
