https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/572347.Ariel_or_the_Life_of_Shelley
It really does read like a product of its time.Also, Shelley's relationship with Mary Godwin neglects a lot of information about her future achievements and works, though it does do a good job talking about their relationship in general.Nonetheless, Ariel is an interesting piece of historical fiction, and set the stage very well for the hundreds of Penguin books (encompassing all different genres) to follow over the years.
Ma première visite, celle qui s’imposa à moi de toute évidence, fut pour la Maison-musée dédiée à Keats et Shelley.
Mes parents aimaient les livres, au point d’en acheter tout le temps.
Quand presque toutes mes copines ne juraient que par Baudelaire, moi c’était Shelley.
Il arrivait à point dans la tourmente de mes 15 ans.
J’aurais tellement la passion de cette langue, qu’au jour d’aujourd’hui 90% de mes lectures concernent des auteurs anglophones que je lis évidemment en version originale.
Un demi-siècle plus tard ou presque, je caresse souvent du regard ce livre, resté dans la maison familiale – sans oser le relire, c’est un objet devenu sacré.
Shelley married 16-year-old Harriet Westbrook, a friend of his sisters, rescuing her from a bad situation at home and school.
While still married to Harriet, Shelley fell in love with Mary Godwin, the daughter of his mentor, the philosopher William Godwin, and feminist Mary Wollstonecraft, who died giving birth to her.
Shelley and Mary married, and Godwin forgave them, but pretended they had not been living together for several years.Their troubles were far from over, though.
Claire had a brief affair with Lord Byron and gave birth to a daughter, but she really loved Shelley, and Mary became jealous.
ARIEL: The Life of Shelley.
Maurois was a very prolific and a very popular writer of his time.
He is remembered primarily for his biographies of the live of various writers – icons of their periods – though he also did a review of the Edwardian Era and a life of Disraeli.
His style was revolutionary for his time.
This biography takes its name from Shakespeare’s airy spirit.
It features Shelley’s love lives heavily over his work as a poet and tends to pnder more to the gossipy side of his life rather than to his lifes’ work.
I love historical fiction and Ariel was a great read, authentic, and even though some of it was a bit melodramatic, this story was a step into the past with vivid details and really fine characterizations. The edition I read was quite an old book. Some of the pages were actually crumbling as I tuned them. I felt I really got to know Percy B. Shelley. None of the other biographies I read brought me as deep as this book.
A well-written and interesting biography of Shelley the poet. Instead of cumbersome dates and details, it gives you a real feeling of what he was like as a person. His whole life, he vainly sought to find the perfect woman, but did, as he promised, dedicate his "whole life to the worship of beauty."
this was a bit of repitition from a previous bio i read, but the last few pages were intense due to the vivid desciption of Shelley's brains seething and boiling in his funeral pyre. Maurois does have a fanciful writing style that i enjoy, even if some of the transitions to quotations are smeary
Vintage Maurois... still not at the level of "The Three Titans", but wonderful nevertheless!
1. Ariel: Andre Maurois
My blog on this book:https://richardswsmith.wordpress.com/...
To be fair, I did not read the French version, but GoodReads does not have the English version. Good story, if you're interested in Percy Bysshe Shelley.
This book makes you reflective. I really like the book, but I concluded that the main character (Shelley) was one of the most selfish people I've ever read about.
Shelley is the original rock - and - roll star. I did a huge critique back in the Seventies.
ako zjesť celú bomboniéru naraz. chutí, chutí ale na konci je vám už zle a nechcete viac.
Maurois is an enchanting author, as always.
The fictional life of Shelley starts of as an amusing romp, around midpoint turns darker, as Maurois' eye becomes somewhat jaundiced.
I reckon I would have been tempted to throttle any of them after a time in their company, as they left a trail of destruction and death behind them, protected by their wealth.
Still, an extraordinary character, and weird life and death story, very engagingly told.I'd now love to learn more about Claire Clairmont, and the other more peripheral peoples, with whom I'm left with more compassion than for Shelley.
The bells chimed thrice and work at the bookstore ended, as my coworker and I set off for the book thing.
I found a brown leather bound book Ariel by Maurois and read it on a whim.
This aerial adventure, of one who walked through the woods with their head in the clouds living on flower covered cottages, sending political pamphlets and poems to sea in green glass bottles, like a ship set sail travelled the worked from Ireland to Ravenna...inspiring, uplifting!
Every story must end somewhere, these memories are ultimately a ship in a bottle...
