https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12959233-winter-of-the-world

Winter of the World continues in the same superlative fashion.
Through the eyes of interesting characters, you get a front row seat in the most memorable historical events that were really not that long ago.
The first book took me inside the world my grandparents experienced.
This one transported me into the events that shaped my parents.
The book provides in-depth perspectives and describes how people actually felt at the time.
There is a handy map of the world on the inside covers.
It shows all the cities where events transpire.
His books are extremely interesting and thoroughly enjoyable.
I've read quite extensively about the period leading up to and including the Second World War and I think Follett got the pulse of the times and the events aligned to their proper significance, including the important occurrences on the margin e.g., the Spanish Civil War and the Manhattan Project.The second test, which truly separates the excellent historical fiction from the good is the use of characters and their reactions to and against the riptide of events.
I said: "Please take away Follett's colon key, stat." (No, Ken, a colon is not interchangeable with a comma.)But still - the pages demand to be turned.WINTER OF THE WORLD picks up right after FALL OF THE GIANTS, with the sons and daughters of the latter novel's characters facing the Spanish Civil War, World War II and the start of the Cold War. Oddly enough, the Depression is pretty much glossed over and doesn't seem to affect anyone.
The book also follows wealthy and/or privileged American, Russian and British families not much affected by the economy, and even the Welsh working class characters of FALL OF THE GIANT are solidly middle class (and Members of Parliament) in this book.
The second in Follett’s Century Trilogy follows the main characters from Fall of Giants and their children as they navigate the major events of the 1930s and 1940s.
The novel isn’t always nuanced, and some events are glossed over in the name of moving the plot forward.
However, it’s to Follett’s credit that this almost 1000-page book never seems to drag, and that he manages the large cast of characters so deftly.Follett is at his best when there’s action and intrigue, and there’s plenty of that, especially in the scenes set before and during World War II.
A journey through the horrors of World War 2 through the eyes of different people from England, the USA, Russia, and of course, Germany.
I think this would be an emotional and suspenseful read for everyone, but especially as a German and as someone whose grandparents were born into a completely destroyed Germany I found myself deeply moved by my countries history.
One of the story lines that especially moved me and that will stay with me for a long time is when the young German girl from Berlin finds out about how the Nazis were killing handicapped people from all ages as well as the mentally ill.
Worse yet, you have cribbed unmercifully from Herman Wouk's Winds of War. I'm assuming Kenny is hoping that readers will be unaware that a 40-plus-year-old book already covered the same globe-trotting style and settings that is the backbone for both novels.
That would have to assume that the reader can overlook such glaring faults as a novel filled to the brim with White Hats and Black Hats, the only characters Follett seems able to create.
That, more than anything, sums up this execrable book; a long, painful hand job from a dirty old man.
*** 3 ***Since I am on hiatus from writing reviews for the month, being a beach bum 😀, I just wanted to note that this was another typical for the author work of Historical Fiction.
However, maybe it is me, maybe it is the fact that I grew up in the Eastern Block and have some knowledge of the history there, the author 's prejudices are even more obvious and no matter how unwillingly they might creep up, they hamstring him and put his writing in a box much too small for the scope he intends.
To be fair, he does have some of his characters entangled in the Nazis euthanasia program for the mentally ill, but that's it.I truly enjoyed how Follett brought me into the inner sanctums of government, whether it be the Russian, British or American incarnations.
These parts were the gems for me, as they illustrated how the world was/is nothing but a chess board for the elite and moneyed to manipulate.Also, just a pet peeve, but Follett repeated and paraphrased the same points over and over again.
None of the women had the vote in any of these countries, so that’s 50 per cent of the people who weren’t allowed to take part in democracy.
Now we take it for granted, certainly in all the countries we think are “civilized.” And that’s a big contrast with what we did in terms of killing each other.This is one of the most sweeping reviews of the evolution of class structure, politics, war, and development of the world during the 20th century that I've found outside of books documenting individual events.
Maybe Follett's arena - the 20th century and families from Germany, England, Wales, America, and Russia - is just too broad and ambitious, yet I've read generational stories that span countries or years that have been done to great success (Aksyonov's Generations of Winter,John Jakes' North and South.Also - the sex stuff IS a little much, and I'm by no means a prude when it comes to sex scenes in literature.
But honestly, Follett writes about it way too much, to the point where I think that's why the characters come off as so flat and two-dimensional.
Ken Follett's second book in his Century trilogy ' Winter of theWorld ' is turning in to an excellent dramatisation of Eric Hobsbawm's ' The Age of Extremes '.It has all the ingredients of ' Fall of Giants ' easy to read, absorbing, intriguing and never far from actuality of the age. I would recommend this book to anyone who is not really into History but likes a cracking story.
I can't actually review this book yet because I am not quite done with "Fall Of Giants" yet, which I insist on finishing first.
I did also read "Pillars Of The Earth" and "World Without End" and They are both up there on my favorites list.
I did also watch the mini-series of "Pillars Of The Earth" and I really liked how that came out too.
I will update my review when I do finish "Winter Of The World".
Just in case anyone is wondering, yes I did open the book already and read the first sentence...
That's what I liked in the Pillars Of The Earth too.
The novel thus begins evocatively, covering the rise of a new giant, the Third Reich, from the ashes of the previous one, which throws the world into a “winter.” Just as in Book One of the trilogy, this novel continues with the story of the five interrelated families—English, Welsh, German, Russian, and American—who live through some of the major world-events from 1933 to 1949.
Not only that, but Follett’s eye for detail, such as, people turn on their radio sets and wait for them to warm up before the sound comes, puts us right in that epoch.Nevertheless, in order to make all of the above happen, Follett has had to use the fictional story-tellers’ favorite device of ‘coincidence’ in this book, as much he did in the former.
These books are so fascinating because they manage to cover so much information in only 900 pages.
This one gave such an interesting perspective on World War II and the homefront.
I love how you get to see all of the facets of the war, not just the battles.
The characters were lovable as it follows the children of the characters from the first book so I felt like I already knew them.
World War II is one of my favourite historic topics to study and read about so I had very high expectations for this and they were just let down a smidgen.
But, other than that I really loved it!
An interesting long....................long.................... read but not up to the standard of Pillars or Fall of Giants.
There are reasons why Ken Follett is one of my favorites, if not THE favorites and Winter of the World is another shining example of why.WOW picks up ten years after the end of Fall of Giants.
Using a combination of personal motives and moral codes, Follett's characters react to the real world and historical events he's made them a part of in a believable and logical way.
Nobody puts fictional characters into true events like Ken Follett.
Complaining about price is a waste of everybody's time.But I digress.Winter Of The World is a fine example of why I love Ken Follett's books and, more importantly, why I love to read.
Think again, because Follett takes you front and center into the lives of such people in his second book of the Century Trilogy with a passion and clarity that delivers the story of their struggles and triumphs to a place beyond our manufactured understanding and created historical boxes.
If intrigued, just read into the lives of those seeking to make a difference in the world as they understand it.
Winter of the World is very much a continuation of Fall of Giants, and I’m not happy with having to wait for the third installment.
Hoping perhaps an unexpected plot twist, or something, might convince me that wading through 960 pages would be worth it.
Sadly, the last page turned left me as empty as the previous many.
Each page turned revealed the expected, formulaic and dull running commentary of 5 families and their involvement in the history of the time.
It seems Follett was so keen to race through History he forgot about what made the first in the trilogy enjoyable - his characters, their personalities and how they interact with each other.
I just hope is better than this book - it's so disappointing in so many ways.
“Why was it, Lloyd wondered, that the people who wanted to destroy everything good about their country were the quickest to wave the national flag?” Non ho letto il libro in inglese, ma non avendo sottolineato le citazioni, per evitare di cercarle ho preso quella che mi serviva in inglese.Dunque, non c'è molto da dire. È un buon romanzo, senza infamia e senza lode, un buon romanzo che ha il vantaggio di lasciarsi leggere quasi troppo facilmente, tanto che se uno è privo di grandi impegni, può l
Un progetto del genere, però, non richiede solo una grande documentazione storica, politica e scientifica, ma anche tanta pazienza e tanto lavoro di rifinitura.
Se parli della Seconda Guerra Mondiale, non puoi lasciar perdere eventi fondamentali solo perché in 1000 pagine non ti ci stanno o perché non hai voglia di parlarne.
Ne scrivi 1500, di pagine, oppure stringi il carattere, ché tanto quello che usi è decisamente grande.
Non rovinano di certo le decine di belle pagine che le precedono, ma stonano terribilmente.Mi parli della Guerra Civile di Spagna e poi nemmeno una pagina sull'Italia fascista o su Mussolini?
A continuação da trilogia "O Século" desiludiu-me bastante. Não deixa de ser um livro razoável que se lê muito bem, no entanto, a sua qualidade não é suficiente para poder recomendar esta leitura.Post no blog LinkedBooks com video de opinião em:http://linkedbooks.blogspot.com/2018/...
Cuán cortas han quedado las casi mil páginas de este libro para abarcar tanta información histórica.Ken Follett continúa la trilogía "El siglo" con esta segunda obra.
La novela, El invierno del mundo, publicado en el 2012 y con casi mil páginas narra la historia que va desde el ascenso de Hitler al poder en 1933 hasta la culminación de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y la posterior división de Alemania repartida entre los Aliados en 1949.El libro está dividido en tres grandes partes, La otra mejilla, Los años sangrientos y La paz fría, siendo la segunda parte la más amplia con una extensión de quince capítulos de un total de veinticinco.El paso del tiempo en la historia del siglo XX ha hecho que una nueva generación heroica cobre protagonismo a lo largo de toda esta obra.
Example one, dialogue.
If the real world was only that simple.
Example two, characters.
Somehow again and again the same characters separated by oceans run into each other in random meetings.
Example three, the story.
Trying to be Epic Historical Fiction Follett gives a smattering of major events so he can cover the entire 20th century.
The problem is if you're going to do that you cannot miss entire storylines such as the Japanese work camps in America as one example.
You also really can't cover other major events in full.
You pretty much get the headlines with appearances by real historical characters and never anything in depth.
Example four, the sex.
First, Follett does a great job of making a fat book fly by.
Second, Follett does a wonderful job reminding us that war is horrific.
If you're at all appalled by the fact that humans can be truly AWFUL to each other, then just don't read this book.
I mean, this book serves as one big reminder that humans have this incredible capacity to just forget that others are also HUMAN.
Third, Follett truly is an incredible author.
He takes something as complicated as international relations and makes it into a story worth reading.

Wow 😍 Genauso genial und episch wie Teil 1 der Jahrhundert Saga ❤❤❤Phantastische Erzählweise, tolle und berührende Charaktere und grade als Hörbuch absolut zu empfehlen! Nun freue ich mich auch schon auf den dritten Teil, zu dem ich direkt im November greifen werde 😃
Wow 😍 Genauso genial und episch wie Teil 1 der Jahrhundert Saga ❤️❤️❤️Phantastische Erzählweise, tolle und berührende Charaktere und grade als Hörbuch absolut zu empfehlen! Nun freue ich mich auch schon auf den dritten Teil, zu dem ich direkt im November greifen werde 😃
Y tampoco nadie me había dicho que ejem ejem a Follet le gusta describir bastante las escenas románticas -eróticas- de sus personajes, así que, con mi pobre cabecita de catorce años que lo más peligroso que había leído era The Host de Stephenie Meyer, el primer libro de esta saga fue un fiasco y lo abandoné alrededor de la página 400 (¡demasiado había leído, considerando todo!).Así que, SÍ, no terminé nunca La Caída de los Gigantes, y SÍ, empecé este libro sin haber terminado el anterior, y SÍ, lo disfruté igual.
I bought the hardcover, some time back,and actually carried it to the Kansas City area to read it,and didn't start it.....months later I finally did,and loved it....I grew fond of the characters,and felt like they were my personal friends....
I just now finished WINTER,and I am ready for book number 3 now!To me, all of the above comments tell me about what a great writer Follett is and what super books these are......I can assure you that you won't be disappointed,and don't let the length of the novels deter you....it reads quick,and a lot of things happen to these characters.
Mais um bela lição de história contada através de uma encruzilhada de histórias.Ao contrário do que parecia até meio do livro, acabei por gostar mais deste do que do volume anterior que me desiludiu um bocadinho no final. Um grande rol de personagens riquíssimas, algumas já conhecidas da Queda dos Gigantes, mas aqui os protagonistas são outros. E agora vou ter de começar rapidamente o último volume da trilogia, cuja tema já se adivinha com o final deste.Espero que o Ken Follet nos brinde com mais livros a este nível, porque são tesouros que colocamos na estante.
Seems like I've been reading / listening to a lot of WWII stuff lately.
