https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280847.A_Man_Lay_Dead
Dashing Debonair Detectives!"He climbed in [the car] beside her, And almost immediately had his breath snatched away by Miss North’s extremely progressive ideas on acceleration.I read Marsh decades ago, and remembered enjoying many of the books, others not so much.
I couldn't tell if Marsh was intending a farce or not, but by the time (view spoiler)[Alleyn crawled out of the chimney, (hide spoiler)] happened, I decided it much be.
Those writers!"‘You have been very industrious,’ said Nigel.
I hate your bedroom slippers and I know you use corn plaster.’"Two and a half stars, rounding up for Miss North's progressive ideas on acceleration.
Marsh introduced her famous detective in this mystery, and you can tell that she wasn't entirely sure what personality to go with.
Otherwise, the victim and suspects are sufficiently unpleasant that there is no sense of urgency about the solution.Most interesting to me, partly because it is so dated, is the side mystery with the Bolshevik conspirators.
Don't let anyone give you one of their sacred ritual daggers or they will track you down* and murder you!*It won't be difficult; you'll happen to be at the weekend house-party of a mutual friend.
I don't know why anyone still goes to house-parties in England, it is just asking for trouble.
My mother read her books when I was a child.
I may have tried one or two myself but they would have not been very interesting to me then.Times change and I found A Man Lay Dead very interesting indeed.
In this case the policeman is Inspector Roderick Alleyn from Scotland Yard.A Man Lay Dead is the first of 32 books in the Inspector Alleyn series and according to many of the reviews I have read it was a rather tentative beginning and the rest are much better.
2.5 ★& that high only because this was Marsh's first book. Makes you realise what a remarkable achievement Christie's first ,   was.Other reviewers have criticised Marsh for inconsistencies in Alleyn's characterisation. I actually don't mind this. I prefer it to having Alleyn & various aristocrats angsting over being involved in something as low bred as a murder! This is very tedious in Marsh's other novels. And I did enjoy the start- although for some strange reason, the frenetic pace h
2.5 ★& that high only because this was Marsh's first book.
was.Other reviewers have criticised Marsh for inconsistencies in Alleyn's characterisation.
I prefer it to having Alleyn & various aristocrats angsting over being involved in something as low bred as a murder!
This is very tedious in Marsh's other novels.
Marsh's theatrical background always makes me see her characters as actors playing a part, rather than as three dimensional humans.Like many of Mary Stewart's books, there was another character in this one.
Alleyn even smokes while searching a suspect's dressing room!But I was enjoying this until around the 80% mark when I became impatient with a silly sub plot.
This is the first of Ngaio Marsh's Roderick Alleyn mysteries and it contains everything that a great Golden Age mystery should.
First, the house party, complete with varying guests - an adulterous wife, jealous girlfriend, mysterious Russian, etc.
In this case, the country house in question is Frantock and Nigel Bathgate (a journalist) is accompanying his cousin Charles on one of the much coveted entertaining weekends, for which invitations are hard to obtain.
Alleyn is a great character, who involves Nigel Bathgate and Sir Hubert’s niece, Angela North, in his investigation.
I have seen a few TV episodes with Patrick Malahide, but had no pre-conceived ideas of Chief Inspector Alleyn, that said, I must admit he did come across very Patrick Malahide -ish.My previous book was another detective story Pietr the Latvian and it was to me a fantastic, albeit short detective story; If that is the epitome of a detective story (and I did give it 5 stars, as I have some Holmes stories) then this is a definite 4 stars.
Given that I have signed up to read 12 Ngaio Marsh novels this year (so yes I am way behind) a 4 star enjoyable read is a good start and I look forward to the next 11 books in the series, bring it on.
Delicioso! En serio, que delicia leer esta historia, que conserva el toque inocente de la Era Dorada (1920/1930). Esta es la primera novela que leo de Ngaio Marsh, y con seguridad, seguiré los pasos del inspector Roderick Alleyn.
It is New Zealand November and I am trying to read more books from and about New Zealand as part of my year-long Oceania reading spree in 2015.Ngaio Marsh is a well-loved crime writer from New Zealand, but most of her books are set in and around London.
Her Inspector Roderick Alleyn series seem (from this first one) to be the light whodunits along the lines of Agatha Christie.
Over-the-top characters, some big words I had to look up (some just being regional words we don't use in the USA), silly tied up ending.
A fun read but nothing to do with New Zealand!
This is the first of Ngaio Marsh's Roderick Alleyn mysteries and it contains everything that you expect from a Golden Age mystery.
First, the house party, complete with varying guests - an adulterous wife, jealous girlfriend, mysterious Russian, and more.
The host intends to hold a 'murder' game, which naturally goes completely wrong, when there is a real victim.
Apparently, Marsh herself was embarrassed by this, her first, mystery, but she need not have been so.
I have read very few of her books, but I intend to remedy that this year, and have certainly enjoyed this first in the series.
O porque ya me he leído muchas novelas de misterio "quién lo hizo" y me huelo el percal.Porque esta novela es exactamente eso: una muestra del "whodunit" británico más clásico.
Todo lo que podría ser un problema para otros, a mí me da igual.
Incluso me alegran esos tópicos, pues son típicos de los títulos clásicos del género y para mí son como volver a casa.¿Es alta Literatura?
Por supuesto que no, los misterios clásicos de encontrar al asesino no suelen serlo.
First mystery novel (1934) from a now-classic author isn't challenging, brilliant, or particularly special, but is still entertaining, giving a hint of her good books yet to come and, as is usual with Marsh, there are nicely pointed sly digs here'n'there.Nigel Bathgate's cousin Charles is a bit of a dog - loving the pursuit of ladies rather too much, he enjoys playing with fire, and gets burned, in many ways.
The plotting, while good, is also quite ordinary for the period - a stilted setting, a twisted murder mystery with overlapping elements of several crimes, a bit of spy-thriller nonsense, some slight omnipotence from the police, and a thoroughly ludicrous bit of play-acting-cum-reconstruction of the crime at the end.
A young reporter is enjoying an upper-class British house party when abruptly, someone is found dead!
(hide spoiler)] This is the first Inspector Alleyn book, and it's clear that Marsh isn't sure how to write him yet.
(view spoiler)[ The murderer springs out of the bath, pulls on gloves, slides down a bannister face-first, yoinks a dagger conveniently nearby, and stabs his victim who just so happens to be standing with his back directly in front of the bannister?
No one on earth would plan a murder that way!
(hide spoiler)] Ridiculous!
It's a smooth enough read, but the murder is a little haphazardly imagined: some elements of it suggest premeditation, while others suggest a crime of opportunity, but it has to be one or the other or it just doesn't work.
And Nigel Bathgate is just too bland: a Watson type of sidekick who makes silly mistakes and can't figure anything out.I know I didn't like Peter Wimsey incredibly much the first time I read Whose Body?, so I'm giving this series more of a chance, but I'm not sure I'll go beyond the three books I have.
So many books, so little time.
I'm disappointed. It never hooked me. Characters and setting were blah. Then I started noticing the overabundance of adverbs and how much the dialog tags bugged me.
I have read one other Alleyn book, Artists in Crime, and adored that and him, but I thought he was a little enigmatic (and erratic at times) in this novel.
Of course, Marsh is clever enough to write the book in such a style that I couldn’t discount them completely from my list of suspects, keeping me on tenterhooks.Like all good mystery novels, everyone has a motive and most of them are pretty well telegraphed beforehand.
There is no end of the book reveal of why the murderer carried out their crime.
Stretched out in front of the gong is Charles Rankin, stabbed through the heart by a ceremonial knife he'd brought to the house with him to show Sir Hubert.Enter Inspector Roderick Alleyn .
This persona, I know, gets the backs up of some readers, and I recently saw quoted with loathing a line of Alleyn's from A Man Lay Dead:"You've guessed my boyish secret.
I've been given a murder to solve--aren't I a lucky little detective?"In the book itself, however, the line appears in a context that gives it a very different color:"What's the matter with you?" said Inspector Boys.
3.5I did not particularly enjoy the first half of this book.
It started off like Death of a Peer (though thankfully the murder happens much sooner) with endless recounting of whereabouts and alibis.
However, as the story progressed it became much more exciting.
Russian secret societies, torrid affairs, and the subtle romance that seems to have died with the Golden Age of of Detection all blend together to create a fun, fast paced read.
This is the Roderick Alleyn I was prepared to meet, complete with an elegant and shadowy past.
It doesn't take Agatha Christie to figure out whodunit, but at the same time, it kept me guessing.
As Ngaio Marsh's fledgling flight into the world of detective novels, this book had enough in it to pique my interest and leave the door open for more of her works.
There is also a bit of a haphazard feel to the plot: she doesn't seem quite sure about where she's going and leaves the reader somewhat befuddled at times.
(As simple as the plot is, it was a bit hard to follow: like when you ask a child where he's been for the day, and he gives you a rambling tale about a dog, a sailboat, a monster and a purple rabbit.) Perhaps it is this quality which makes it all the more endearing, and in the end charming enough to want to read the second book in the series.
Schlicht und einfach herausragend!
I was not enthralled by "A Man Lay Dead", from infamous New Zealander Ngaio Marsh.
However, other than the crass titular man; nothing put me off reading more of them.
Just natural anxiety giving the novel some oomph, since there are no hidden corridors in the manner I adore.People are allowed to saunter outside and the most excitement comes from a trip to London!
It is especially fun that Roderick Allen allows two personages who are cleared, to aid in his investigation by way of a strategic ruse in the city.
The setting and the wardrobe contribute, but the reader has to provide the details because the books don't go on much about Art Deco architecture or the fact that the ladies are wearing furs and cloche hats.Published in 1934, this first of Ngaio Marsh's Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn mysteries, A Man Lay Dead, offers many of the ingredients that we love.
A house party, an antique weapons collection, a secret society, a detectiive game where the lights go out, an unexpected body when they come up again, a suspicious butler, a little international intrigue, and Inspector Alleyn, the gentleman detective, to solve the crime.
It's been a long time since I read the first book in Marsh's Inspector Alleyn series (back when I discovered her at our local library some 30-odd years ago).
I had quite forgotten about the Russian intrigue and I had also forgotten that Sergeant Fox was not Alleyn's right-hand man in this one.
Having read all the stories at one time or another, I know Alleyn--at least as much as Marsh allowed us to know him--but I realize that readers meeting him for the very first time may find him a little lacking.
Being a bit fuzzy on which John Dickson Carr that was next on my list, I started this, A Man Lay Dead by Ngaio Marsh, another golden age crime writer.
Until almost at the end, when I looked it up, I thought I was reading a man, when in fact I was reading *Edith* Ngaio Marsh.
In the male-centered world that was the first half of the 20th century, and classic crime's golden age, I think there's a lot to be said for being a male writer.
Though no one can rival JDC's brilliance, I believe Ngaio Marsh is a good candidate to switch to at my completion of all his novels.
I thought I had read all this series but realised recently that I had for some reason missed the first one.
This is a typical Golden Age mystery with a group of suspects in a country house.
Sir Hubert Handesley's country house weekends are noted for their murder game.
I loved the characters and the way they interact and the murder is really very well plotted.
If you haven't read any of Ngaio Marsh's books yet then this first one would be a good place to start.
The series can be read in any order but this book introduces two of the main characters in the series.
A MAN LAY DEAD (Police Procedural-England-1930s) – G+Marsh, Naigo – 1st in seriesSt. Martin's Paperbacks, 1997Introducing Inspector Roderick Alleyn, who is called to the country home of Sir Hubert Handesley.
Sir Hubert had arranged "The Murder Game" as entertainment for his weekend guests.
Unfortunately, someone is playing for real and one of the guests is found dead.*** This is a good introduction to a delightful series set in the classic English manor house.
Personally, I prefer Marsh to Christie; maybe because I'm a procedurals fan.
Whatever your preference, there are interesting characters, effective red herrings, the classic reveal all of which result in a very satisfying read.
I didn't remember enjoying her the last time I read Marsh.
Because I really did enjoy this book.j.It is kind of the reverse of the "locked room" mystery.
Here was a man at a country estate weekend party who was murdered out in the open but everybody has an alibi.I certainly never figured it out.There was a side story about a Russian brotherhood, presumably an anarchist group, as some of their party had gathered in a house and then blew it up.I look forward to reading more Marsh.**************************************************9/21/16Enjoyed it the second time around, too.
Missed the murderer this time around, too.
This was not particularly a good book.
I had a difficult time trying to decide who was the main character and the mystery was pretty weak.
It seemed that at the last minute the author randomly picked one of the characters to be the murderer and then came up with some unconvincing clues to tie it all together.
And there was an unrelated Russian crime ring randomly thrown in.
I'm going to attempt a few more of her books because I adore all sorts of English mysteries and Ngaio Marsh is well loved by many.
I'm hoping it just took her a book or two to get good.
In this first book, we're introduced to the star of the series, Detective Inspector Roderick Allen when he's called to the home of Sir Hubert Handesley.
It could be because this was the author's first book or it may have just been my adjusting to the conservative British narrative, I dont know....but Detective Inspector Allen's character grew on me and by the end of the book I found I really liked him so I am going to read another book or two in the series and see how I feel about it then.
I decided to read this book because the author's writing is considered similar to Agatha Christie's classic mystery style. I was not impressed. The slang is so over-the-top that it gets in the way of the story and the flippant attitude of the characters is not only off-putting, it makes them seem ridiculous. I doubt I'll seek out other books from this author. Not recommended.
I enjoyed this novel and I'm glad I decided to read my first Ngaio Marsh mystery. It's interesting to read her first Roderick Alleyn novel and it will be interesting to see her writing evolve. I definitely will be reading more of Ngaio Marsh!
