https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280.The_Ravishing_of_Lol_Stein
she wants to watch where the two lovers go, she wants to be a silent witness to their acts, she wants to find meaning in the forms of their passion.
ironically enough, her novel The Ravishing of Lol Stein is ostensibly about passion and voyeurism and the nature of love, the meaning of obsession, the traps and tricks of perspective and point of view.
it is a passionless rendering of the various forms of passion.so there is a reviewer, mark monday, a shallow kind of guy, one with an automatic bias against the intellectualization of sensuality.
it dealt with passion and obsession, and the forms they take, and the meaning of those forms.
i do not like marguerite duras.
there is nothing at stake here, just people blinking emptily at each other, speaking words with no momentum behind them, frequently non sequiturs so it seems as though they are involved in separate conversations.
lack of quotation marks so that when one character will reluctantly, languidly plop out a sentence, you sometimes don't even know which one is speaking, unless there is a back-and-forth, and then you can use context or whatever.
but the one isolated word or phrase in a scene when two people are just sitting around existing, who knows who is speaking?
i did not like The Lover when i read it, but i had hope nonetheless.
Working my way through the novels of Marguerite Duras, I kept thinking, sooner or later one will eventually lead to disappointment, it could have been this, it wasn't.
For again she has hit me in the most painful of places, the heart.The Ravishing of Lol Stein, in simple terms is a love story, but those who are familiar with her work will know she writes in a stark, minimal style, with short sentencing, but done in a most profoundly haunting way.
424. Le Ravissement de Lol V. Stein = The Ravishing of Lol V. Stein = The rapture of Lol V. Stein, Marguerite DurasLe ravissement de Lol V. Stein is a novel written by Marguerite Duras and published in France by Gallimard in 1964. The text was translated by Richard Seaver and published as The Ravishing of Lol Stein in the US by Grove Press in 1966. The text was also translated by Eileen Ellenbogen in the UK as The rapture of Lol V. Stein for Hamish Hamilton in 1967.At the beginning of the novel,
The text was translated by Richard Seaver and published as The Ravishing of Lol Stein in the US by Grove Press in 1966.
However, at a ball in the seaside resort of Town Beach, Michael Richardson leaves Lol for Anne-Marie Stretter, an older woman.
The next day, Jacques has one last meeting with Tatiana Karl.
و. اشتاین؛ نویسنده: مارگاریت دوراس؛ مترجم: قاسم روبین؛ تهران، اختران، 1395؛ در 169 ص؛ شابک: 9789642071036؛ لُل زنی ست که رنج را از یاد برده، خود را هم از یاد برده… نسیان همین است؛ مثل آب، که در دمای زیر صفر و در نسیانِ آب بودن یخ میزند.
Lol does not probe very deeply into the unknown into which this moment opens.
I like to believe--since I love her--that if Lol is silent in daily life, it is because, for a split second, she believed that this word might exist.
Enormous, endless, an empty gong, it would have held back anyone who wanted to leave, it would have convinced them of the impossible, it would have made them deaf to any other word save that one, in one fell swoop it would have defined the moment and the future themselves.
Hand-me-downs from God knows how many love affairs like Lol Stein's, affairs nipped in the bud, trampled upon, and from massacres, oh!
Michael ditched Lol. Hurt and with her heart broken, Lol goes to another town and meets musician Jean Bedford.
Jacques is the narrator of the story.The story reminded me of a woman in our island-town who was said to be ditched by her fiancé few days before they were supposed to get married.
When half of the town got burned in 1984, she had no choice but to come out because the house with the pump where she lived and where we used to get clean drinking water?
In many ways this narrator seemed to be incidental, a figment of everyone’s imagination, including the reader’s, there only to physically inhabit the landscape, to serve as a grounding “I/eye,” but amorphous and permeable as a phantom, occupying other characters and turning a third-person view on himself with a kind of eerie remove.
The term that kept coming up for me related to this portrait was “self-indulgent.” Duras’ characters talk about love, but I don’t see any of them actually feeling it.
I can feel a Marguerite Duras fixation coming on.While fairly impressed with her late novel  L'amant de la Chine du nord , I wasn't completely drawn into Duras's milieu until David and I watched Hiroshima mon amour, the 1959 Alain Resnais film for which she wrote the screenplay. To put it bluntly, Hiroshima mon amour blew. me. away. The opening sequence reduced me to sobs, overlaying Emmanuelle Riva's and Eiji Okada's stark, dreamlike narration (a stylized argument, which at times seems almost t
In the opening scene of the film, Riva's character (known simply as "elle" or "her") makes a repeated claim to have witnessed the events of nuclear devastation in Hiroshima, not at first hand but through visits to bomb victims in the hospital, trips to the museum, and viewings of the newsreels.
Her attempts to reenact the past with a new cast of characters, and force it to provide her with something that was missing the first time around, are dream-like and fascinating, asking similar questions and evoking a similar mood to the relationship between "Elle" and "Lui" in Hiroshima mon amour.
I think I prefer the "rapture" translation for "ravissement" over the one in the title.The defining moment of the heroine takes place at a seaside casino, where she witnesses her fiancee come under the spell of another woman, dancing in her arms until sunrise, lost to the outside world.
The book reminds me a little of that movie, of two people from different planets trying to use words and their bodies to communicate, to reach an understanding.
I think The Ravishing of Lol Stein is the kind of book that will be different with each re-read, and probably every reader will pick something else from the story, depending on what his / her emotional baggage is.
Something about it touches oh so very lightly some dark, inner place while you read, just brushes it enough to remind you what's hidden in the recesses of the mind, passions, and body.While some have complained that very little happens within The Ravishing of Lol Stein, I vehemently disagree.
It's quite easy to look back over the story and have those things slip the readers mind.
Plenty happens there, more than can be picked up in a single reading, but it's so understated it might be easy to miss.I love this book so much, and I can't even explain why, not in any satisfactory way.
I shall not have to read it at the same time as Proust. Her style appears in all its artificiality. A kind of clinical and cold manierism. The distance which the writing puts with regard to the character disembody them. They are reduced to the state of archétipaux skeletons. And the history is of an exceptional foolishness. Harlequin in the Nouveau Roman. To flee.
Lol ne va pas loin dans l'inconnu sur lequel s'ouvre cet instant.
Mais ce qu'elle croit, c'est qu'elle devait y pénétrer, que c'était ce qu'il lui fallait faire, que ç'aurait été pour toujours, pour sa tête et pour son corps, leur plus grande douleur et leur plus grande joie confondues jusque dans leur définition devenue unique mais innommable faute d'un mot.
J'aime à croire, comme je l'aime, que si Lol est silencieuse dans la vie c'est qu'elle a cru, l'espace d'un éclair, que ce mot pouvait exister.
Faute de son existence, elle se tait.
Tatiana Karl, Tatiana Karl, Tatiana Karl...
I suppose it's part of Duras' strategy to convey the title character's obsession, which distills her ultimate happiness and sadness to a singular point in time where she has become emotionally and mentally growth stunted.Reading this is rather like watching a snake eat its own tail.Lol Stein has nothing to say, thus Duras and her characters want us to think this constitutes a fascinating enigma with something substantive at its core.I think it's the hocus pocus of a writer using the maximum amount of words to beat a dead horse.
You can read my review here:https://burninghousepress.com/2017/07...
"Penso que, apesar de Marguerite Duras me fazer saber por sua própria boca que não sabe, em toda sua obra, de onde lhe veio Lol, e mesmo que eu pudesse vislumbrar, pelo que ela me diz, a frase posterior, a única vantagem que um psicanalista tem o direito de tirar de sua posição, sendo-lhe esta reconhecida como tal, é a de lembrar, com Freud, que em sua matéria o artista sempre o precede e, portanto, ele não tem que bancar o psicólogo quando o artista lhe desbrava o caminho.Foi precisamente isso
"Penso que, apesar de Marguerite Duras​ me fazer saber por sua própria boca que não sabe, em toda sua obra, de onde lhe veio Lol, e mesmo que eu pudesse vislumbrar, pelo que ela me diz, a frase posterior, a única vantagem que um psicanalista tem o direito de tirar de sua posição, sendo-lhe esta reconhecida como tal, é a de lembrar, com Freud, que em sua matéria o artista sempre o precede e, portanto, ele não tem que bancar o psicólogo quando o artista lhe desbrava o caminho.Foi precisamente isso que reconheci no arrebatamento de Lol V.
Pretty good, I guess, but not quite as good as The Ravishing of ROTFLMAO Stein.
I didn't manage to get into this book, it was just too opaque.
The language is one thing that really saves this book.
If you completely forget about the actual story, it is a beautiful exercise in using the words for a wonderful meditative description of characters, situation and landscapes.
However, that wonderful exquisite sketches never worked to get into the whole picture for me.
Same with the events of the story, it is as if you are looking at some time flashes, completely missing the whole thing.
“That she had so completely recovered her sanity was a source of sadness to her.
One should never be cured of one's passion.”Remember that guy who wronged you when you were, like, 17?
But time passes & you sort of do get over it even if you won't admit it to yourself but you build your identity or lack of identity off that one exact moment of betrayal and everything now is a repercussion of that moment.
To me this is what The Ravishing of Lol Stein is about & the more I think about the book, the more I'm drawn to it.
Có vẻ như đây là tác phẩm dễ chịu nhất của M. D mà tôi đã đọc. Nhưng mà, nói sao ta, vẫn cứ thấy thiếu thiếu gì đó để trở thành một tác phẩm lớn. Có vẻ như Le Monde hơi ưu ái M. D khi xếp "Nỗi đam mê của Lol. V. Stein" vào danh sách 100 cuốn sách hay nhất thế kỷ 20.
Long piece on Duras being mulled over at present.
En determinado punto de la historia me he perdido. Al comienzo pensé que el libro quizá podría gustarme, pero me equivoqué.
1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die group read.Reading this one for a group read.
I like torture?
I don't know folks...
yeah it's kinda dreamy and poetic, stream-of-consciousness writing...
but it's boring.
Does anything happen, I mean HAPPEN to these people?
I'm going to finish it because I'm half-way through and it reads fast...
but I'm yawning folks.
I finished the book.
I can't say it really was a book I had to read before I died.
Wonder why they call it the "ravishing" of Lol Stein.
Not much ravishing going on with all the clandestine sex going on.
lol
lol
Sample paragraph: "Lol dreams of another time when the same thing that is going to happen would happen differently. In another way. A thousand times. Everywhere. Elsewhere. Among others, thousands of others who, like ourselves, dream of this time, necessarily. This dream contaminates me." The three-star rating is not for readability.
The only thing I know anything about is the immobility of life. Therefore, when the immobility is destroyed, I know it. —Lol Stein
Nebunie, încântare, totuna. senzații.
Quand j’ai commencé à lire ce livre la première fois, je n’ai pas pu le terminer. La narration me rendait complètement mal à l’aise. Celle-ci passe régulièrement du ‘il’ au ‘je’ presqu’indiféremment, sans qu’on sache au début qui est ce ‘je’ et qui est ce ‘il’. Au quart du livre environ, on apprend le nom du narrateur. On situe alors un peu mieux les choses, mais comme la folie est au centre de l’histoire on continue de douter de la réalité des choses. Une fois prévenue de cette particularité du
Quand j’ai commencé à lire ce livre la première fois, je n’ai pas pu le terminer.
On situe alors un peu mieux les choses, mais comme la folie est au centre de l’histoire on continue de douter de la réalité des choses.
Une fois prévenue de cette particularité du roman, on s’y abandonne peut-être plus facilement.
Stein.Ce n’est pas nécessairement reposant à lire mais ça vous sort complètement de la réalité banale des choses et vous force à entrevoir d’autres dimensions de la réalité.
Mais comme ce livre est pour moi une sorte d'exploit littéraire, j'en donne 4.
such disparity in duras’s writing.
though the Pride and Prejudice focus on relationships with women being hysterical and men simple adds to the fantasy, it’s grating.
the whole thing is hysterical.
duras uses that hysteria.
it’s excessive here.and there’s a Three Women exploration of identity.
while the narrative perspective switches have something to do with the identity theme, it’s unpleasant.
especially when the third-person makes its way into dialogue.lol is a good character.
there’s appeal in the way being stuck manifests in her.
that can be found in anything else duras has written.
Jag blir tokig!! Jag blir tokig när jag försöker hitta den röda tråden. Vad är det med min läsning nu? Varför letar jag efter någonting jag aldrig tidigare har letat efter? Duras berättelser är som korta ögonblick, samtidigt så intrikat (ja) formulerade att det är svårt att inte behöva stanna upp och ibland frustrerat fråga ”Vad vill du mig???”
Belle ode à cette tendance que nous avons tous à imaginer la vie des autres, que nous les connaissions plus ou moins. Ce fantasme autour des sentiments d'autrui me parle beaucoup, et j'apprécie les descriptions très «cinématographiques» de ce livre là.
"Söylemediğim bir şey varsa, kitaplarımdaki bütün kadınların, yaşları ne olursa olsun, Lol V. Stein'ın soyundan geldikleridir. Başka bir deyişle, belli ölçüde kendini unutuştan. Hepsinin gözleri açık renktir. Hepsi sakınımsız, öngörüsüzdür". Marguerite Duras'ın okunası kitabı."Sanıyordu ki ardarda tamamlanan ve eksilen, dolan ve boşalan, sonra hep yeniden hizmete hazır bir zaman olasıdır, hâlâ inanıyor, hep inanacak, asla iyileşmeyecek." "Onun hakkında ilk keşfim bu oldu; Lol’u hiç bilmemek, onu
"Söylemediğim bir şey varsa, kitaplarımdaki bütün kadınların, yaşları ne olursa olsun, Lol V. Stein'ın soyundan geldikleridir. Başka bir deyişle, belli ölçüde kendini unutuştan. Hepsinin gözleri açık renktir. Hepsi sakınımsız, öngörüsüzdür". Marguerite Duras'ın okunası kitabı."Sanıyordu ki ardarda ta­mamlanan ve eksilen, dolan ve boşalan, sonra hep yeniden hizmete hazır bir zaman olasıdır, hâlâ inanıyor, hep inana­cak, asla iyileşmeyecek." "Onun hakkında ilk keş­fim bu oldu; Lol’u hiç bilmemek, onu şimdiden tanımak demekti. Öyle geliyordu ki bana, Lol V Stein hakkında da­ha da az, gitgide daha az şey bilinebilirdi."
