https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475285.Efuru
The blurb with the book sums it up; “Efuru, beautiful and respected, is loved and deserted by two ordinary undistinguished husbands.”The setting is rural and Efuru is a woman who is independent and competent and trades for herself.
Like Achebe, Nwapa commentates rather than judges, but the messages are clear and this book is about the society of women in the same way Things Fall Apart is about the society of men.
Just look at the difference in ratings; Things Fall Apart has 141 386 ratings and 5993 reviews and Efuru has 193 ratings and 17 reviews.
Reading this novel, I recalled Alice Walker's words in either The World Has Changed: Conversations with Alice Walker, or In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens: Womanist Prose, where she insisted that feminism is a global thing, meaning one can't care about women from only a certain race.
Efuru is a woman who moves to the beat of her town's river goddess, to the beat of her own drum.You know that century-old idea that a girl's education is futile, since she is expected to marry and raise kids?
That century-old idea that a woman without children is barren or useless or even strange - it still exists.
Maybe it was a case of woman to woman...but further studies showed me that the world at large (men of course) considered Achebe to be a much better writer.
Or maybe there should be a law banning men from pronouncing on, criticising works by women?
Nwapa did show the world in her novels of many decades ago that she is a magnificent writer.
Just try to read her works and juxtapose them with how Achebe projects women in his novels...no contest at all, I think .
Buchi Emecheta too and her very powerful novels...she even published more of such works than Achebe.
I give Efuru five stars for it being meaningful to me on a personal level.
She is good-natured, honest, patient, generous, forgiving, industrious, a loyal wife, from a respected family, and well liked by the majority of the people in her village.
The language is almost like reading a play's script.
I would give her writing four stars.
The setting of Efuru is in a Nigerian village probably just after the First World War. The community, its harmony, and customs are described in a world that is changing for all the inhabitants both old and young.
4.5/5 Perhaps self-imposed suffering appeals to her. It does not appeal to me. I know I am capable of suffering for greater things. But to suffer for a truant husband, an irresponsible husband like Adizua is to debase suffering. My own suffering will be noble. There're certain novels I've referred to as "______ for adults"wherein I name them as examples that go above and beyond the call of their genre (as dictated by status quo "classics") in terms of complexity, lack of lazy writing in the form
There're certain novels I've referred to as "______ for adults"wherein I name them as examples that go above and beyond the call of their genre (as dictated by status quo "classics") in terms of complexity, lack of lazy writing in the form of stereotypes, and overall treatment of not the structure of their type, but the philosophy.
White writers can't get away with writing about Africa as one would a playground/zoo as much as they used to, but I still find myself confronted with uncritical trash in well respected public mouthpieces.
should be read in conjunction with Things Fall Apart.
Flora Nwapa's text is a pioneering example of female African literature. Not only does Efuru capture female life so vividly, it also contrasts with the male dominated African literature of the period in which Nwapa writes. The reader is taken through the everyday life experiences of women in an African setting. Pregnancy, marriage, female circumcision are all discussed, alongside subtle nods to the presence of colonialism. The narrative is written in a style which is almost cinema-like, as it is able to capture and display circumstances the way film does.
This beautiful novel describes the youth, marriage, motherhood and eventual personal epiphany of a young woman of contemporary Nigeria.
The book also describes quite matter-of-factly the horrific ritual of female circumcision--a painful clitorectomy--that all young women in this society are expected to undergo before marriage.
Finally, Efuru realizes that she surely must have a higher calling, and perceives that a goddess of her tribe, "the lady of the lake" has chosen her for another role.
Efusu muses at the story's end that the lady of the lake has never married nor had children, but still, the women of the community worship her.
I'm currently reading Efuru - it's the first work of Flora Nwapa's that I am reading and I found the first line of the book riveting; although she has been a hovering presence in my literary awareness for a long-time I've never till now actually engaged with her work.
African women writer's have definitely been under-rated and under celebrated, and that's one of the great things about the emergence of writers like Adichie, Chibundo Onuzo and Chika Unigwe - all great igbo writers for whom Flora Nwapa is definitely a forerunner.
I read this as part of a week-long book discussion on Female African writers.
this was the first book written by an African woman writer and ultimately inspred Buchi Emecheta's "The Joy of Motherhood", with it's last line.
The protagonist is a Nigerian girl who must submit to the traditinal female genital mutilation which was the standard in the early 20th century as well as currently in some African countries.
Her inability to get pregnant dooms her first marriage and reveals the importance of having chikdren in Nigerian life.
although stylistically this was not a well written work,Nwapa was emulating the storytelling nature of her people and the way people talk.
Loved Things Fall Apart? Want to go back to Iboland? Want more beautifully simple writing? Want it from a woman's perspective? Well, Efuru is all of those things. However, while it is gorgeous, and convincing and has some interesting notes on polygamy, there seems to be no plot or central idea of the novel. I wish I knew more about genre theory, but perhaps this is realism? The events have no overarching order, but they just unfold, like they do in real life? No idea what to make of the story.
Efuru is a well respected woman in the community who marries an undistinguished man that no one knows. Even though no one understands her choice they still hold her in high esteem. Efuru's life isn't as society expects, but through her challenges she carries herself superbly. The last paragraph of the book, her musing on the worship of the Lady of the Lake, rounded off the story perfectly. "And yet we worship her." This last line to me alludes to change in the society, is the only purpose of womanhood to be a wife and have children?
The simplicity of sentence structure is helpful in understanding Nwapa's world in this book. Efuru is a wonderful, strong character--the perfect woman to show a female perspective. This is a very revolutionary book, and it deserves much more credit than it gets. If anything, the extremes Efuru goes through to please her culture should entertain and educate readers all on its own.
a true african writer. I liked.
The last line of this book made me go h e c k y e a h
It's refreshing to read of a woman who lived in an unconventional way for her era. Independent, wise, resourceful Efuru is a delight.
An incredibly talented, imaginative, evocative African writer. May her soul rest in peace
To me these backhanded compliments smack of racism; the assumption that prose not florid in the Western Tradition is 'simple', that a story without high drama is without point.Efuru is vivid and spare and elegant.
Anyone criticising this novel for its simplicity - try to craft a response more eloquent than Efuru's when she speaks of 'suffering for herself'.
As for the novel's 'point', Efuru's arc from devoted wife of undeserving men to self-possessed woman is electrifying.
This novel could easily have ended with Efuru's emancipation involving her attending a white school and entering our wider world, but it doesn't.
I really enjoyed this book.
It introduced me a bit more to Nigerian culture and traditions.
I'm from Mozambique and I can see some similarities in the underlying misogyny described in the book.It is also interesting to put this book in a time frame and confront this story with those of Wole Soyinka and Chinua Adebe.
The questions regarding the woman's role in the family and in society are still relevant today, which makes it perfect for young women such myself.
Are you less of a woman if you don't have kids?
What's the definition of a 'good woman'?
I enjoyed it very much.
Different style and content.Efuru slept soundly that night. She dreamt of the woman of the lake, her beauty, her long hair and her riches. She had lived for ages at the bottom of the lake. She was as old as the lake itself. She was happy, she was wealthy. She was beautiful. She gave women beauty and wealth but she had no child. She had never experienced the joy of motherhood. Why then did the women worship her?
At first, I was afraid the novel might be boring, but gradually I began to enjoy it, precisely enjoying its richness in oral tradition. I have a feeling that this novel might have been the inspiration for Buchi Emecheta's Joys of Motherhood and Elechi Amadi's The Concubine. Anyway, it's quite an interesting read, like a voyage into the core of culture, precisely the Igbo culture, learning about generational pattern and woman empowerment.
Traditions of Igbo cultureNow I was very astonished, considering the historical significance of this book, that no library in Dallas Texas carried this novel. What an insult. The book is a full and accurate portrayal of traditional Igbo culture, still evident to this day. It’s moves along slowly and there are gaps in the storytelling towards the end, but overall the novel was fine.
Had to read it for a world lit class. I liked it, I didn't love it. The beginning and end were better than the middle. Universal, cross-cultural truths about motherhood, marriage, femininity, gossip, community, education and change. The writing style is VERY straightforward, dry, short sentences lots of dialogue. Difficult to keep the characters' names and relationships to each other straight. I'm glad I read it once, probably won't read it again.
This book is about building endurance and tolerance via love and patience. The title character endures many hardships throughout the book, but she survives and thrives. Through her spiritual connection with Uhamiri (The Goddess of the Lake) and her deep understanding of her divinity she overcomes everything. READ this BOOK
It's interesting to read a female Nigerian writer but it's troubling that she's not critiquing anything...I don't know if troubling is the right word but it's jarring to read an account of female genital mutilation and just have the speaker go along with it and say how wonderful it is. I appreciate it, though, because it definitely feels like an authentic voice.
Kirjan kerronta oli verkkaista, vaikka paljon tapahtui. Tutustuttaa lukijan itä-Nigerialaiseen kulttuuriin ja siihen, miten paikalliset traditiot ja kolonialismi kohtasivat, sekoittuivat ja osittain elivät rinta rinnan. (Afrikkalainen) nainen kuvataan (kerrankin) vahvana toimijana.
Simple, so so so simple sentences almost killed me at the first, but then I used to them and learned to like them. Not anything "oh, so awesome!"-feelings, but still a really enjoyable, fast readed novel.
So personal. Very early the book delivers an awakening slap to the reader in the way the story and main character embrace female circumcision. It is required for proper orientation in the story. Efuru captured my heart. A hero. I am grateful that Flora Nwapa created such an important lamppost.
This book is great for learning about a different culture, and it has a fantastic protagonist, but it covers some highly sensitive topics that will, no doubt, send readers off. Worth the read if you are not easily bothered.
Nigeria's first female novelist showed in works like this that she is easily one of the best in Africa, and the world - with perennial themes of motherhood, travails with men and society etc
