https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24731.The_Tortilla_Curtain
it's like the couple in the book give themselves a lot of "brownie points" for all these details, while missing the big picture.
(And therefore: many privileged people feel justified in trampling on the rights and needs of poor people.) Because it illustrates this point so well, I think this book is excellent.
I hated this book! Hated hated hated! It was slow and really boring at ALL times. One of the worst books I have ever picked up.
In the world of the tortilla curtain, being hispanic means you are either unbelievably downtrodden and unlucky or you're carrying a knife and willing to use it.
when he goes to see if the man is ok, the hispanic man responds in some wicked, foreign tongue, and we're treated to a passage along the lines of: "this man wasnt speaking norwegian...no, the US doesnt share a three-thousand mile border with Norway.
No...this man was Mexican, and the langue he was speaking....Spanish." I dont remember the exact passage but its something along those lines.
And, yes, Boyle writes this with an interjection of the cultural elite, of whiteness, which for some crazy reason seems to give him access to minority groups, their feelings, their thoughts, their actions, their lives.
The worst part is that this book continues to be used across the country in high schools and colleges as reading material on immigration reform!
Another white male author part of a long line of celebrated writers shifting the American perception of minority groups.
My fear is that young readers will come away with less understanding and critical awareness of class struggle after reading this book in their institutions of higher learning.
This is the book that finally put me off of fiction written for adults.
Unless you live under a rock with cotton in your ears and a bag over your head, you know that life sucks and the human experience is filled with misery and despair.
When I spend my precious time reading, I want to read something well-written and inspiring, regardless of the content.For example: You can read something about the holocaust, and come away feeling amazed and grateful that there are some people in the world capable of doing extraordinary things in times of utter despair.
This is probably not going to be a popular opinion, but...I didn't like this book very much. I might have DNF but I kept hoping it would get better.  So depressing. You have a Mexican family searching for a better life and the wealthy white family who slide into cruelty.  The characters aren't very well developed.
"The Tortilla Curtain" by T.C. Boyle is not without its flaws, but even a decade or more after publication, it has only grown in its relevance regarding the deep-seated problems of illegal immigration, particularly the Mexican-southwestern U.S. nexus.Boyle tells the story of two couples, one rich, white and privileged, the other homeless, Mexican and struggling, and how their lives intersect.
One is left, I think, with the sense that we -- as a nation of immigrants -- need to pay far closer attention to where we are going, and to develop public policies and resources toward genuine solutions.
If people think this book DOESN'T deal with the reality of life in Southern California...and Northern California, and Arizona, and Texas, and New Mexico, anywhere where the "haves" need the services and cheap back-breaking labor of the "have-nots"...then you need to get out more and leave the blinders at home!
This book does an excellent job of throwing a spotlight on the racial discord, which unfortunately grows by leaps and bounds daily, particularly in our post-911 and Border Minutemen hysteria.
Listen to the community fathers and mothers fret about homeless tent cities being moved to their 'hoods.
I personally found nothing likable or redeeming about this book.
It's full of depressing, tragic (to the point of being very unrealistic in my opinion) events that keep on occurring to a poor, immigrant Mexican family.
Their plight is contrasted with the transformation of a self-described "liberal humanist" into a paranoid racist who is obsessed with catching them.
I found the book heavy on trite cliches with no development of any of the main characters (except Delaney), all of whom are one-dimensional and pretty much only evoke pity or dislike.
I hope Mr Boyle's other book are better!
Diesmal bin ich irgendwo bei 4,5 und runde wohlwollend auf.Es fing ganz wunderbar an: Ganz Boyle untypisch sparte sich der Autor das ewige Herumgelabere warf den Leser mitten in die Geschichte - in zwei Welten oben und unten, arm und reich, Amerikaner und Mexikaner abwechselnd beschrieben.America, auch the Tortilla Curtain, habe ich ganz bewußt heuer aus meinem SUB gezogen, denn in Anbetracht der Tatsache, was sich gerade mit Donald Trump in Amerika an Rassismus gegen die Mexikaner abspielt, ist dieses Werk sicher grade topaktuell.
I started out liking the story and the author's voice, drawn in by the setting and the rhythm of the narration.
The more I read, the less I liked the characters, the story, the narration, and the artificiality of the tale.
To the point that I can say I regret wasting my time reading such a well-written, carefully constructed foolish story.
This one got worse for me the further I read.
If there was a zero star rating, I'd give it.A phony, arrogant, white man's tale full of cut out characters in a sitcom setting aiming for reality style dramedy.
What a waste of talent.
I lost the book, paid for it, found it again, settled in to read it, but before I could do this Ryan returned it to the library thinking that it was way way overdue.
As it turns out, the timing was perfect.
And my passage through this book kept perfect time with the dispatches from CNN.
Both the book and the political situation have an unresolved ending, but both point towards living with it.
It would be a great gift to be able to read our own lives, see our own prejudices and foolishness as well as we can see them in Boyle's characters.
Of course Boyle had good intentions, as do most liberal white authors who attempt to take on social/political issues that do not include them, but when one has never experienced racism, when one has never had the experience of an immigrant, it is nearly impossible to pull off a well-written and inoffensive piece of writing to encapsulate it.
There are plenty of books written by white authors (for example Life of Pi) that are beautiful and inoffensive, but mainly because they aren’t about social/political problems the people they write about face, but rather a universal experience that can relate to everyone.
Culture clash is the theme in Tortilla Curtain, and leave it TC Boyle to go beyond the abstract curtain of statistics, policy wonkery and three-hankie tragedy mongering and provide the reader instead with a contradiction that is harshly comic; well off Southern Californians, nominally liberal in their politics, are forced to deal with an illegal couple who are in the most dire situations.
Boyle does not sugar coat, euphemise nor glorify the awful trials and fate of the Mexican couple that had stolen over the border looking for a better life.
This book is honestly one of the worst I have ever read.
While the author shows clear skill and talent at detailed imagery, he often takes things to an unwanted, graphic level.
There is a scene where one of the main characters is described to 'shake his prick' after taking a leak.
While the same action (or lack of it) was referenced in the novel "Empire Falls", the author of that novel had a clear point in it; to depict the character as unclean.
While it is easy to relate to the characters in matters of racial awareness and fear, I still found myself growing increasingly annoyed with them as I continued to read.
I liked the writing style and enjoyed most of the story.I wasn’t wild about some of the events that happened toward the end of the book: I thought they were heavy handed and unnecessary; it was the slice of life events that I found most interesting and I didn’t need any big “blockbuster” events.Rife with symbolism and commentary on various topics & themes: most especially America’s illegal immigration and Mexico’s dire poverty problems, but also: coyotes & nature/desperate Mexican immigrants/affluent white southern Californians; different kinds of prisons; the drive for survival; nature & human nature; the presence or absence of safety; inequities: have and have-nots human beings; etc.
I found this to be a poorly written satire of pretty much everyone on both sides of the illegal immigration issue. As such it really didn't add much, if anything, to the great debate. Very predictable.
I liked this book a lot.......until I started reaching the end.
(view spoiler)[ A baby is born out in the bush without any aid.
Instead of heaping one catastrophe on top of another, it would have been enough if the child had been born out in the bush and the Mexican couple had simply returned to Mexico!
And I did like most of the book very much.
This book is about illegal Mexican immigrants in a suburb to Los Angeles, probably in the 21st Century.
The beauty of the book is that you understand both and you watch the tension mount between the two.
I actually threw this book across the room after I finished it because it made me so upset.
Its a tragicomedy with not a lot of comedy about the parallel realities of a man and woman couple from Mexico struggling to survive as illegal immigrants and a man and woman couple who live in an affluent suburb of LA.
Their lives are inter-connected and tragic and there's not a lot more to be said.
My aunt gave me a warning when she gave me this book, and my other aunt told me that she couldn't ever relax when reading it.
I have read this book so long ago that I will have to reread it to review it. I still have it on my shelf and remember how good it was. It made a lasting impression on me. I just want to get it into my Goodreads shelves.
I'm definitely going to read more by Boyle.
Boyle clearly had an agenda, and for the better part of the read, his argument came across as oversimplified (especially after finishing the deliciously complicated, messy, challenging, put-your-balls-out-there manifesto The Mandibles).
"Privileged" characters Delaney and Kyra are given equal screentime to illegal immigrants Candido and America, and unfortunately read like caricatures, with no redeeming qualities.
(Delaney and Kyra: BAD.
It's a book I'd gladly give to someone very young (I felt similarly about the wildly-popular The Hate U Give) to introduce them to complicated subject material, and think about the world differently.
I stopped by my local library and started scanning the shelves for a book with an orange cover that would qualify for a Rainbow Challenge that I am participating in.
This book looked intriguing with the great cover and story centered around illegal immigrants in California, a topic I have never read about before.
I'm afraid the cover was the best part of the book.
Between the inconsistencies, stating one thing, then a few paragraphs later something that didn't jive, the drab characters, drama that didn't flow smoothly and a depressing story, I was glad that it at least scored 33 points for the Rainbow Challenge!barely 2 stale tortillas stars
Making the trees and bushes and the natural habitat of Topanga State Park into his own private domicile, crapping in the chaparral, dumping his trash behind rocks, polluting the stream and ruining it for everyone else....Delaney felt his guilt turn to anger, to outrage....it was people like this Mexican or whatever he was who were responsible, thoughtless people, stupid people, people who wanted to turn the whole world into a garbage dump, a little Tijuana...” (p.11) What he fails to grasp is this Mexican's very presence here is the result of a cascade of events originating in a classic supply and demand scenario.
I read this for a class that dealt with immigration issues. It is a wonderful example of being born with privilege. Quick and easy read. Gave it 4/5 because the female characters are poorly developed (as is rest of TC Boyle's novels). I got frustrated with this novel because of the bad things that constantly happened to the protagonists and the in-your-face irony, but it had its good points as well. I think anyone should read this before they try to take a position on the US-Mexican immigration issue.
In the book, the residents of a gated community decide to build a wall to keep the Mexicans (who they think are responsible for the spray-painted abuses that have begun to appear on their walls) and the coyotes out of their houses.
The stories of two couples – one an affluent white secular humanist couple and the other a poor Mexican couple who are hiding out in the backwoods looking for work are juxtaposed by T.Coragghessan Boyle.
Just like Budding Prospects (the other TC Boyle novel that I read recently), it comes across as trite and uninspired after a certain point.
I feel that both couples are stereotypes, made more believable by the human touches that the author added.I think it is chilling the way the author wrote about these "do-gooder" types (Kyra & Delaney) and how they are so careful to exercise regularly, live a healthy lifestyle, and be "aware" of society's ills (like the way Kyra speaks out against animal abuse, how Delaney speaks out against feeding coyoytes)...but at the same time, the author underscores how wasteful they are, with their brand new cars, expensive house built in wildfire country...it's like the couple in the book give themselves a lot of "brownie points" for all these details, while missing the big picture.
My one criticism is that the book seemed to take much longer than it needed to in order to get its point across.
It is a rare thing for me to start a book and not finish it, but this is what I have decided to do.
Multiple people told me this was such an awesome book but I can't take how depressing it is.
And then I didn't read for about 6 months due to my completionist issues (and also due to a few other, very exciting reasons as well....) So I have now decided to give up on it and move on.
I have to admit. I gave up. None of the characters interested me in the slightest. They were chock full of cliches, flat and two-dimesional, and just plain boring. Maybe if you make it all the way to the end, that's part of what possibly makes this story interesting—that one, or all, break out of the stereotypes and become beautiful butterflies, but I have to ask, if the story is mind numbingly boring up to that point, then you've possibly made it impossible for people to see your brilliance.
He tells parallel stories of affluent Americans seeking refuge from L.A. in the canyons beyond its perimeter and indigent immigrants also living in those canyons--but not in beautiful homes--while trying to make a life and a family on a day laborer's wages and at the mercy of nature, which is not very merciful.Cándido and América come from Tepotzlan, an enchanting town in Morelos not that far from Mexico City I happen to know fairly well.
They are not more beautiful, welcoming, or special, but they are associated with American wealth, and that's what draws Mexicans without visas to the U.S. Boyle describes Cándido and América's plight poignantly, the insults to their dignity and their dreams,their desperation,imagination, and fortitude.
An expose on a social issue that comes off as racist.This book has basically the same plot as the British book Little Bee. The lives of two social groups – the pretentious liberal Californian and the struggling illegal Mexican – are intertwined in need and guilt resulting in bubbling emotion.
Except Little Bee is artful and this book falls flat.It’s so clear that the author falls into the first group, a pretentious over-educated American.
The flatness of the plot makes you hate both chalkboard protagonists and most of all the author for falling short on what was a respectable goal.
