https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853949.Little_Farm_in_the_Ozarks
I just want to BE Laura Ingalls Wilder and have since I was about 5 years old.
I read her books about a dozen times each as a kid, but I just recently discovered MacBride’s series.
I was a little skeptical—how could anyone measure up to Laura?
Like many of the Little House books, this one is not plot driven, but something about it just makes my heart melt.
Rose is a spunky, mischief-loving, heart-of-gold kind of kid, and her family is so full of love.
It’s one of those books that just makes you feel good inside.
loved the description of everything. it was very good. What I found a funny was Roses cats's name was Blackfoot and if you read Warriors then you will know that is the name of ShadowClan's warrior/leader.
The second book in the Rose Years is just as enjoyable as the first if not moreso.
"Little Farm in the Ozarks" follows us through 1895 as the Wilders get used to life in Mansfield.
MacBride keeps things moving along at a brisk enough pace & keeps the story moving as life in this part of Missouri moves along at a slower pace than we have today.
Along the way we meet a few new characters & watch the development of this house into a home that will last for years to come.
An easy read & another classic for fans of the Little House series.
Rose and her parents, Almanzo and Laura Ingalls Wilder, try to carve out a farm near Mansfield, Missouri, in this sequel to "Little House on Rocky Ridge." She makes friends with neighbor kids but has more difficulty adjusting to the school, where the "town girls" are condescending toward "country girls." Lovers of the Little House books will enjoy these continuations of the Ingalls saga, but they are less compelling reading somehow. Even a flood fails to keep the pages turning. However, these books are less racist than the originals.
Still love following along the lives of the Wilders. This one tells about farming, gardening, fishing, raising chickens, making friends, and Rose as the new girl at school. They are finally diversifying their farm so as to avoid financial ruin...woohoo! Happy they figured that out. One of my favorite parts--now that I'm a married adult--is the fight Laura and Almanzo get in over the stove. :)
These are not as good as the original Little House books which were written in first person by Laura Ingalls Wilder herself. However, all indications are that these books are faithful to the life of Laura's family. They were written as a continuation of the story of Laura's life beyond the original series.
I really enjoyed this story. It was one of the most like the original Little House series. I am getting a real feel for the characters and the setting. We already ordered the next couple books...
It's easy to get caught up in Rose' s life in the Ozarks. Good easy read.
Overall though, it was kind of bland, though it shows Rose aging.
Still, she still seems 7 and not 8/9.We've skipped over the Wilder's first winter in Missouri, showing that nothing of import happened then.
It's weird for them, and for me, to think of spring so early.Swiney and Abe Baird are interesting boys.
It's interesting to see a segregated school after everything in Laura's days (and before her).Cora and Dora Hibbard are humorous.Professor Kay is harsh, yet overall understanding.
As with the other Little House books, I thoroughly enjoy it.
And of course this book reminds me of the little things in life that we took for granted.
Seeing how amazed Rose feels seeing one of her classmates wearing different clothes every day for a week when she only has one clothes to wear for the whole school term.
I love the description of Rose's anxiety on her first day at school.
Although since it is really focused on farming, I found myself skimming some passages just because it didn't really interest me.Overall, still enjoyed this a lot and looking forward to continuing.
The story of Rose Wilder, the daughter of Laura Ingalls and Almanzo Wilder, and her first full year at the families new home in Missouri. Rose has fun learning about the farm and meeting neighborhood children. She also starts school where she is a champion speller. The author knew Rose as an adult and managed her estate after her death. Unfortunately he died before finishing this series so the later books are very short, based on his notes. I enjoy the series but not as much as the little house books.
Doesn't have the magic of the original Little House books. Competently written, probably a good choice to read to young grandkids, but lacking a bit of the innocent wonder of Laura's upbringing. (Which, of course, we know was fictionalized.)
Read aloud to Leigh and Gregor. They looked forward to it every night.
IT IS FOR 8 YEAR OLD GIRLS
Lianna, Shenandoah patron, July 2017, 4 stars:So much like the Little House books. Very good!
Loving reading about the Rose years! They led such fascinating lives.
The Rose books continue to be a pleasure to read. For Little House fans, this one has a couple of moments that give insight into Laura and Manly's ongoing story, including a touching discussion of why Rose was an only child.
One of our family's favorites. A classic.A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
It was really good. I liked how she beat the other girl in a spelling bee, and won a autograph book and the girl became her friend and wrote something nice in it.
TWO REASONS TO BE PROUDJust when you thought you had read the entire LITTLE HOUSE series, you discover with delight that there are two more books, although not penned by Laura herself.
These two Rocky Ridge sequels continue the saga of a grown up Laura Ingalls Wilder--this time focusing on her only duaghter, Rose.
Still, loyal LITTLE HOUSE fans will appreciate this latter-day glimpse into Laura's married life.
Read this book to learn why Rose's parents have two reasons to be proud of her.
This story will appeal to preteen girls and all LITTLE HOUSE fans.
Rose must help on the farm, so cannot attend school until the end of their first year in the Ozarks.
Rose is bored when she begins school since she is the top student (having been well taught by her mom Laura, a former teacher), but there is no room for her in the next class.
She graciously wins the class year-end spelling competition and in the process makes friends with a rich town girl.
School holidays begin in September and last until December (just after American Thanksgiving) so the country children can help with the farm crops.
I loved the autobiographical Little House books, written by Laura Ingalls Wilder, when I was a tyke.
Reading this book about Laura's daughter, Rose Wilder, brought me back to my own childhood and made me feel all warm and fuzzy inside :-)Roger Lea MacBride has done a lovely job of following in Laura's storytelling tradition, matching the tone of the previous books and continuing to bring to life tales of what it was like to grow up on a small farm during the late 1800s.
Little Farm in the Ozarks is another great chapter from Rose Wilder Lane's life.
Everything is still new to Rose, there is still much to experience, to learn and to explore in her new home, which makes it exciting reading for fans.Instead of prairie fires, here they face floods capable of sweeping away entire farms.
Instead of a one room school, Rose must attend a multi-classed school house.
There is fishing and swimming, wolves and 'town girls' - all of which is new to Rose but reminicent of Laura’s life.I love being able to continue Laura's story through the eyes of her daughter.
I seriously should have reviewed this as soon as I finished.
Will I ever learn?
(The answer is probably no...)Anyway, I love how Rose helps her Ma and Pa with no more than the usual kid complaining!
She's a great kid!
I love how she recognizes thoughts that are wrong, such as her envy of that other family and her dislike of Blanche!
I also love how she spells and wins because spelling is soooo me!
All in all, I love how Laura and Manly are finally beginning to see their dreams come true!
Re read
I picked this book up at a thrift store in Portland, Maine.
It follows the basic formula of all the books I've read in all the Little House related series by telling of the day-to-day lives of people living in the (seemingly) simpler past.
The main character of this one is Rose, the daughter of Almanzo and Laura Ingalls Wilder.
Rose was pretty excited about it, which shows how much life has changed in the U.S.
Rose has quite a few adventures as she explores her new life in the Ozarks, meeting new friends, starting school, etc.
It took us a while to read this though, as it wasn't one long story arc, it was more small subplots as she goes through the year, so we paused and then picked it up again periodically.
So in that sense, it wasn't a compelling 'must finish this book' type of book, but it was fun to read about each separate situation.
I have to say, if this book is accurate, I'm extremely impressed by what the 3rd graders are expected to know how to spell for their spelling lessons!
Rose Lane Wilder`s childhood starts in this book. The Rocky Ridge years are tough, because over the summer of 1874 Rose finds herself moving to the little farm. When Swiney is found in the chicken coop, he is said to be a robber, all though that is only Mama`s opinion. Then Alva`s kittens are ready to be adopted. Blackfoot, Rose`s kitten is killed from what it want to explore. The cat did not have a very long life.
Rose Lane Wilder`s childhood starts in this book. The Rocky Ridge years are tough, because over the summer of 1874 Rose finds herself moving to the little farm. When Swiney is found in the chicken coop, he is said to be a robber, all though that is only Mama`s opinion. Then Alva`s kittens are ready to be adopted. Blackfoot, Rose`s kitten is killed from what it want to explore. The cat did not have a very long life.
This is the second volume of the Little House: The Rocky Ridge Years series, telling the tale of Rose Wilder, the daughter of Almanzo and Laura Ingalls Wilder. Essentially it's more of the same--a peek into the life of folks trying to eke out a living by farming in Missouri in the 1890's. It's enjoyable reading--excellent waiting room material--but there's nothing that compels one's readership.
I read this as I had just finished visiting Laura's Rocky Ridge Homestead. This is about Laura Ingall's Daughter Rose. It was not written by Laura Ingalls but I found the writing similar. It was a fun, quick read, geared towards I would say young elementary age, but since I am a fan of all things Laura, I read it:). A good read for Little House Fans.
