https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242514.Gidget
I also loved the movies, and the Frankie and Annette movies about surfing and beach parties.
What I didn't realize was that it was a book that started it all (this book, obviously) and that the book was based on a real life girl!Frederick Kühner was a Hollywood screenwriter whose daughter Kathy became obsessed with surfing at the age of fifteen.
Before Frankie and Annette were singing on the shore about young love, there was Kathy, the Gidget, hanging on the beach with Moondoggie, getting sideways looks from adults and running from the cops who wanted to shut them down.
Having seen and enjoyed the 1959 Sandra Dee film a year or two before reading the book I came to it expecting a fun, quick read with possibly some unintentional humor due to dated references/slang.
Disguised as a fun book about a girl's summer learning to surf is in reality the story of the awkward transition from childhood to adulthood and the desire to speed up the process.
In fact, I enjoy Gidget far more than I do The Catcher in the Rye, which I find to be overrated.
Gidget meanwhile is vastly underrated despite having a timeless story and a more relatable character than Holden Caulfield.
Gidget of 1960s TV and movies was based on a real person, Kathy Kohner, the daughter of screenwriter and novelist Frederick Kohner.
The summer she was 15, she spent all her time on the beach at Malibu Colony, hanging out with the surf bums and learning to surf herself, and her dad wrote this book based on that summer.
The fact that Kohner wrote this during Kathy's surfing summer makes his descriptions of her fictional alter ego making out with her college-aged boyfriend or the night that she thought losing her virginity to the 40-something Kahoona, who had been a father figure to her up to that point, disturbing to say the least.
Pretty awesome book for a beach read. I finished it in a few nights. You can almost picture Sally Field narrating the entire book. It was great to hear a bit of the 1950s Malibu nostalgia as well. A great read about a girl coming to age, her strong emotions of love, and the beauty of California surfing.
2,5-3
My edition of Gidget included introductory material that lauded the book as "The Catcher in the Rye for girls," and I couldn't stop thinking about that while I read it.
I'd read a review over a decade ago that, as squeaky-clean as Sally Field's Gidget was, the real book was something completely different, but it wasn't until I was in Southern California for a week this summer that I finally got around to it.
(That's right, you can thank Gidget for helping make the Beach Boys' music salable to the world.) This book is important, and more importantly, it's a delightful slice of Americana in the voice of a bright, sassy teenage girl.
3) Fredrick Kohner, the author, based the book on his own daughter and on his own daughter's coming of age story.
7) The book is written in first person.The heroine, Franzie, a.k.a "Gidget," is fifteen years old and in love with the beach, the ocean, all things surf, including surfers--no matter their age.
Even if it's fifty-fifty in its origins--half fictional, half based on true events/people--it's still a bit weird for me when I think about a father writing about his daughter's lust and curiosity.
The changes made between the book and the movie were for the best, I think.
Ever since I learned they had Giget books i wanted to read them all. This is my second time reading Gidget and I still love it. My mom introduced me to alot of older movies and Gidget was always a favorite. Love my momma for getting me into old movies their are some really good ones put there.
The new edition's forward by Kathy Kohner Zuckerman, who was the real-life Gidget, puts the story in perspective.
Kathy Kohner was a petite (less than 5 feet tall) perky Jewish girl who became obsessed with surfing back in the days before the Beach Boys started singing about it, before most of America had even heard of the sport.
How it all plays out is well worth the very short read.An interesting dimension of the story is that the author, Frederick Kohner, was writing the novel about his own daughter with her cooperation - and her actual diaries.
I read it because I like the movie by the same name ...
the old one with Sandra Dee. It is not by any means a great work of literature ...
it is a fun and easy read though.
It is actually based on the real-life experiences of the author's daughter.
She was a real surfer-girl in a time when surfing was still a sport (or more like a hobby) of male beach bums.
While being based on a real person it's a fictionalized account ...
it's just a fun read.
It really isn't much like the movie either.
less of a Sandra Dee feel.
I read this book because I wanted to explore what it would be like to be part of the surf scene at the very start.
This is a really enjoyable short novel (roughly 200 pages long) about a teenage girl named Franzie who talks the boys at Malibu circa 1956 into teaching her to surf.
Romance rears its head in the form of the intimidating Big Kahuna, who has turned away from the straight world, and "Moondoggie" Jeff who is going back to college.
Utterly charming, from the shy romance at its heart to the crazy 50s surfer lingo.
Teenagers of all ages will dig Gidget.
It is the book on which the Gidget movies and TV series were based and is the story of real life Kathy Kohner (now Zuckerman), who lived in Malibu and at age 15 fell in with the surfers at Malibu beach.
The book is written by her father (and it amazes me that a DAD could write this book) and uses what I assume is the vernacular of the beach set in the 1960s.
Though it is long on character description and teen age love angst, nothing really happens in the book.
Gidget has a great sense of voice and character, and I love the heroine's transformation from shy "girl midget" to confident surfer chick. Gidget's definitely got her share (and more) of guy trouble, but the focus of the story stays on what she wants and learns about herself. The book's final pages - especially the last two lines - are really refreshing, they make this one a pleasure to come back to again and again.(This was previously posted as a summer reading suggestion on my blog.)
THIS BOOK IS NOT WHAT YOU THINK. it's an incredibly written, fantastic journey into the inner mind of a teenage girl. It's full of love, beauty, sadness, angst, and awesomeness. Forget what came after, the franchise, the TV show, the movies, the perkiness, the crap. This is the real deal before it was spoiled by popularity. If you are now, or have ever been, a teenage girl...READ IT.
So cute!
GIDGET, by Frederick Kohner, (written before I was born) is one of those iconic tales/characters you feel like you know even if you've never read the book, like Dracula, maybe.
Published in 1957, just six years after CATCHER IN THE RYE, Gidget's voice is derivative of Holden Caulfield to be the point that it's hard to take the book seriously.
Obviously, the character "Gidget" became something more in its own right in the subsequent movies and the TV show, so the book was a success, I just wish her voice had been more original.
I loved this book. The references to "Catcher in the Rye" nearly scared me off, as I'm not a fan of that book at all. However, "Gidget" was exactly what I wanted it to be. Written in the 50's lingo of a teenager, Gidget is a witty story centered around coming of age, first loves and standing out from the crowd. I loved it! Having seen the 1959 movie multiple times over the years, I definitely read it in Sandra Dee and James Darren's voices. ha ha!
okay but "historical"
Fun book that really delves into the surf culture . The book that started it all!! I grew up watching Gidget movies and Beach Blanket Movies and loved them, fun read to bring back that era.
This was a quick, fun read, packed with surfing history and sure to please the beach bum in all of us.
Made one of the gang by the local surfer boys who nickname her Gidget (girl-midget), she falls in love with Moondoggie and, most of all, with surfing.Written in 1957, Gidget was written by Frederick Kohner for his daughter, Kathy.
Based on her adventures with surfing, Gidget was the first book to deal with a girl learning to surf which was almost unheard of at that time.
I knew of Gidget from the Sandra Dee movie which I love a lot and had no idea it was based on a book until recently.
The ending is very empowering for Gidget as she defies the boys and learns to surf.
I have been a Gidget fan for years and only now found out there was a book based on a real person's experiences to start it all.
Now I am a bigger fan!This is one of the very few books where I read the Introduction and Forward...usually if it is by another person (not the author) and not part of the story I skip this as I have found most to be dry literary criticisms.
And it was wonderful to hear the woman discuss her younger self.The book's author is the father of the subject and he completely captured the stream of consciousness of a teen mind as well as the speech patterns...a great student he was.
Gidget is about a fifteen year old girl who goes to the beach and finds a group of guys surfing one day.
However, Gidget won’t let that stop her from proving everyone wrong and she will keep doing what she loves to do.
I feel in love with the Gidget movies and T.V. shows when I was a little girl.
Now, there are a whole lot of things in this book that are just like the movie and there are things that are different as well.
I loved them each equally, and I really liked the book for a lot of reasons.
When I was a kid my sister and I used to watch the TV show “Gidget” every day after school.
We really loved the show and when my sister got Gidget – The Complete Series on DVD for Christmas, we dove in with gusto.
It’s still as charming and entertaining as it was in the 80s (yes, I realize the show originally aired in the 60s).It was during some rampant googling to find every bit of Gidget trivia we could find that I discovered the tv series (and movies) were inspired by a novel.
Good, fluffy, fun.
A good sit-on-the-deck-in-the-sun read.
I want to learn to surf now.I kind of wish I had read this when I was fifteen.
Probably would have quite surprised me that my mom likes it so much.
However, she can be shockingly oblivious of the surfer guys' innuendos while at the same time being much more curious about sex than I was at fifteen (though, as Mom said herself, "she's pure as the driven").
My obliviousness was basically the reverse.
The sum total of this is that I'm not sure fifteen-year-old me could comprehend this being a Mom-approved book.
What sold me on this book was two things: 1) I loved the TV show but never knew it was a book first; 2) one reviewer called it a west coast "Catcher in the Rye." I admit, the second point had me most curious--that's a pretty heady statement.
Thing is, I'd say it's basically true.To be clear, the east coast drear and dark-near-suicidal vibe of "Catcher" is replaced by surf and sun, and the protagonists are opposite sexes, but in terms of world view, I think Holden may have fallen for Gidget, and maybe that's all this comparison needs to be true.
My sister and I love the movie...
you know the real corny 1959 film starring Sandra Dee & James Darren.
[p.s. who doesn't love a little James Darren?
I decided that it was time to finally read the novel that the movie was "loosely" based on.
The story was charming and simple and so much fun to read.
I love it when books or films deliver a new perspective or plot from each other.
It gives you an opportunity to enjoy the story on a much broader scale.
Fun!
Bitchen book.
I picked this up at a surf shop, it's the story of the real Gidget.
Her father, a screenwriter, turned her diary into this novel in 1957.
(My copy is autographed by Gidget herself who is now close to 70.) Gidget, meaning girl midget, discovered Moondoggie and The Big Kahuna and other surf bums in Malibu and spent the next three summers hanging out with them and learned to surf board ride.
The tv shows came after and cleaned up Gidget quite a bit.
Some say this book is what started the whole surfing craze with the Beach Boys, etc.
The lingo was great, and like I said before, it's a bitchen book.
Kohner does a good job of capturing the slang of the time.
I also felt that the surfing scenes were very well done and conveyed why people become some obsessed.
As others have mentioned it definitely is racier than the movies and TV show, and I guess that it was bothered me about it.
By modern standards it still isn't that bad, but I found the fact that a father wrote it about his daughter to be quite creepy.
I realize that the fictional Gidget is not exactly the same person as the real one, but I just found it weird.
There was a bit of an adjustment period while I got used to the lingo that made this book so popular, but once I did this was quite an enjoyable read. I can definitely see how this would make a great beach or pool book. It's short and fun and all the characters are likeable.
