https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121208.Nevada
I'm a little fuzzy on the details of the story, though I do recall that it read like a "B" western movie...cowboy works under cover in a gang of rustlers, and identifies and eliminates same.
A cowboy is shown firing what are clearly two cap and ball (percussion) revolvers....suspended in the smoke are six cartridge casings apparently ejected from the revolvers.
The artist is clearly oblivious to the fact that (a.) these revolvers do not utilize cartridges; or (b.) even if the revolvers were converted to take cartridges they would not, could not, eject casings like a flippin' machinegun!!!
There are a couple of key action scenes in that span, but they both happen off camera, and the reader only gets details secondhand or from the aftermath.
The "action" is referenced later as something that happened long ago.The second key scene is, in my opinion, the best and most memorable part of the book, and it is genuinely thrilling even on a third reading.
It doesn't seem like it would have been too much for an editor to ask for a rewrite that drops this poor sap's name earlier in the book, sprinkling in details here and there to make the action seem more like fate than a contrived spectacle.Finally, without going into detail, the plot, when viewed in hindsight, is perplexing.
Forlorn River and its sequel, Nevada, are my two favorite Zane Grey novels.I find these novels brimming with Grey's loving descriptions of frontier wilderness.
In these novels, though, the women characters come across as very strong and the men as capable of love and loyalty.--"Injuns and Greasers": Minorities get minimized by Zane Grey, and that is true in this novel also, yet to a lesser degree.
Good people are conned by bad people, eventually to be saved by a good man who possesses a hidden, bad past--and a large, deadly pistol.In Forlorn River (published in 1927), young Ben Ide is cast out by his rich dad, branded a wild horse hunter and possible rustler.
In this novel a good guy who has a name as a notorious gunman leaves the family who has come to know him by another name and strikes off for parts unknown.
When their cattle, along with everyone else's, is being rustled to the point of financially crippling them, Nevada the good guy has a chance to go undercover and clear his name as well as save the general area from a band of thieves and bloody rustlers.
There are a good woman characters in this novel (well, typical Zane Grey characters, fiesty, independent but just dependent enough on men to make them desirable, etc.)
Five years have passed since Nevada saved Ben Ide and his family, and Nevada has disappeared into the wilderness of the western frontier.
Ben cannot forget his old friend and searches for him relentlessly, but what he feels is nothing compared to what his sister, Hettie, feels for Nevada.
The years apart have only made her love for him grow stronger.
When Ben decides to move his family to Arizona for the health of his mother, he has ulterior motives - hoping that he might find his old friend.
I loved getting more insight into Nevada's character, as well as Hettie's.
For its genre, western fiction first published in the 1920s, it's a gem, with all the criminals and lovelorn characters popular at the time. I particularly liked the depiction of the Ide family, who sell their ranch in California and move to a developing ranching area a long ride from Winslow, Arizona. Decades since I've read a Zane Grey novel, and enjoyed it.
The book was a breath of fresh air. Intelligently written with a strong story line. It was my first read by this author and I am beyond excited to read more by this author and venture into the likes of Louis L'amour. If you have never read Zane Grey, let this be your first.
My favorite Zane Grey. The book that when I read it as a young teenager, solidified for me the idea of the "good bad guy" driven to a life of crime through no fault of his own. A hero type that I enjoy greatly to this day. I highly recommend this book.
My favorite western. I read it in Hungarian, translated from German which was translated from the original - waaay back in the 80's first. Since then I have read others of his westerns but this one remains my favorite.
I like Zane Grey's hand in describing the environment, but I've never been that enamored of his characters or his basic storytelling. This one isn't too bad but it never made me want to read a lot more.
I believe this was the second Zane Grey book I read. I was enamored with the character 'Nevada' so I went out and found this book, the sequel to Forlorn River which I had just read.
I liked the story line and I loved Nevada but the writing was disjointed and scattered. Just awful to read. I skipped a lot.
This is my favorite of Zane Greys stories. Nevada draws me in and I do not want to put it down until I find out the conclusion.
Fairly good western, but he's no Louis L'Amour.
read some time in 1983
Estoy completamente fascinada con este autor...
Read my review at my blog.
