https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1679497.The_Fortress
In this work he succeeded in capturing the "soul" of ordinary Bosnian folk.Selimović uses Ahmet Šabo, the novel's protagonist, to express himself about general things in life:Experience had taught me that what you can’t explain to yourself is better told to another.
You can deceive yourself with just one part of the picture that happens to impose itself with a feeling difficult to express, since it hides in the face of the pain of comprehension and flies into the mists, into the intoxication that seeks no meaning.
This book is phenomenal! Beautiful writing, brilliant character development, interesting story, smooth combination of philosophy and everyday life - ''The Fortress'' is one of those books you need to keep close and read random parts of it when you feel the need to be inspired. This is life in 380 pages. Just amazing! I enjoyed every word of it and will definitely buy a copy very soon and read it again.
Bolje od Dervisa, zalim sto je nisam pre procitao.
Išao sam sokacima, bez cilja, nikud, a našao se pred pocrnjelim zidovima svoje kuće, nigdje.
"Najmanje se govori kada te se najviše tiče."
Why I feel compelled to include in all my 'reviews' some background on why I read a book, who recommended/gave it to me, etc: I write these primarily as an exercise/diary for my own benefit and it's nice for me to keep track of this.A couple days before I left for Europe, an old friend from high school with whom I have had only spotty contact for the last decade--Kemal--showed up at an ad hoc see-Ed-off gathering at Liquor Lyle's in Minneapolis.
comes by way of this american life 9/6/13, http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio... How I Got Into College, parts 2-3, by michael lewis about emir kamenica (and lauren ames) and the stories about ourselves that we tell ourselves.
Hoće li ova moja djeca ići tim istim žalosnim putom, kad odrastu? Hoće li živjeti glupo kao i njihovi očevi? Vjerovatno hoće, ali u to neću da vjerujem. Neću da vjerujem, a ne mogu da se oslobodim strepnje.
I can't tell how this book's lines and sentences "sound" in English, but I really hope it's, as near as possible, close to original version, simply because almost every single sentence that Meša Selimović write is a little masterpiece- a message, an advice, something to hang on a wall, something to write on a piece of paper and carry in a pocket, something that you always thought of, but he said it much, much better than you ever would.
You open the book to no matter what page, and you'll find your own thoughts, wrapped up a served back to you as a beautiful present.
An amazing book. Although it's set in Ottoman Empire, the plot can be applied to any time, which makes it so interesting to read. It's not an easy and fast read, you have to be patient with this book, but it's definitely worth it. I found myself reading one page over and over, trying to choose one quote to add to this review, but all thoughts were just so powerful.
''Kad mi je teško, bježim u samoću. Kad mi je još teže, tražim dobre ljude.''Definitely one of my favourite books ever!
То што сам очекивао од ове књиге то сам и добио, а очекивао сам много!
His struggles to reclaim a place in the World become the main focal point of the book from then on.
Like in his more famous novel "The Death and the Dervish," Selimovi'c manages to embed the personal struggles of one man under a totalitarian communist regime into a much more distant past and an equally oppressive medieval Ottoman rule.
The book also cements Selimovi''s place as one of the great World writers of the twentieth century.
In many ways it is a variation on the theme of Derviš i smrt, although its reputation as a great book in its own right is fully justified.
Like its predecessor, it is set in medieval Bosnia, and its description of the intrigues and injustices of Ottoman rule are an allegory for Tito's Yugoslavia (although the book was never banned).
To frighten me?
To frighten others by my example?
To ban thought?
To ban speech?
L'écoulement du temps du récit est différent de ce qu'on peut lire dans un roman de littérature classique occidental, mais c'est ce qui fait partie de son charme.
Pour ce qui est du décor exotique, il n'est pas tant décrit que cela, le principal réside dans le message de l'auteur sur la parole.
Un roman sur la vérité, bien plus profond qu'il ne paraît."Mais s'il échouait comme tant d'autres si les anciens enthousiastes maintenant au pouvoir réussissaient à lui barrer la route, son martyre aurait plus d'effet que sa victoire.
Car, chose étrange, la plus belle chose que l'homme puisse faire, c'est d'essayer et de ne pas réussir."
Oduševljena sam načinom razmisljanja. Izvanredna knjiga.
Knjiga u kojoj su sadržane sve tajne svijeta, sva životna filozofija. Fenomenalno djelo!
Neopisiva, neoprostiva, više nego odlična, kao i izvanredni Selimović. Jedva čekam da prođe vremena kako bih je ponovo pročitala. Strašno me zanima kako ću je doživljavati malo starija.
An amazing book. Perfectly written.
I cant believe there is an english translation...
da me posjeti na domovinu.
But may God forgive you, your petty soul was none of your choosing, it was given to you. You were the last in the queue when there were no other, better ones left.
Great and enchanting storytelling. Set in Bosnia some 500 years ago, but also timeless story, because not much has changed. I had pleasure reading it, it is beuatifully written.
Read it long time ago, but still is one of my favourite books ever
Ово је један од најбољих књига сам прочитао, има изванредну дубину, као да је писао историју човека)))
A koliko bi bolje bilo da se radjamo kao starci, da polako postajemo sredovjecni, postepeno zaboravljajuci prvobitni strah od smrti, pa oslobodjeni mladici, dovoljno lakomisleni da ni o cemu ne mislimo suvise ozbiljno, pa bezbrizna djeca, a da umiremo kao novorodjencad, ne znajuci nista ni o cemu, cisti kao zametak.Njegova vjecna ceznja o sreci, mozda i zamisljena, bila je san koji se nece nikad ostvariti, i zato lijepa.Volio bih da zivim s laznom nadom nego sa sigurnim beznadjem.- Zasto mi ne kazes sta ti je?
Mehmet mu je drag zato što je voli da sanjari o boljem životu i bogatstvu, a pored bede u kojoj živi on se nekako snađe da pomogne njemu i Tijani.Kada Ahmeta najzad sreća pogleda i pruži mu se šansa da napreduje u životu, svojom lakomišljenošću sve uprska.
Ljudi težeći za savršenošću na kraju izgube sebe ili neku dragu osobu.Ahmet živi za male pobede i u njima nalazi sreću, jer sa većim pobedama dolaze i veće nevolje.
Strah i nasilje je isteralo istinu i pravdu iz glava ljudi, jer čak i delo iz dobre namere vuče sa sobom pritajeno zlo.
Reviewing this masterpiece written on almost 400 pages in few words just doesn't seem right.Let's say this is a book about people. (raja in Bosnian would be much more exact)There are no acts of heroism in this book, only struggle.The road to hell is paved with good intentions.Don't know what to say, maybe, if Meša Selimović is a writer from the bigger nation he would be literature titan like Dostoyevsky is.Shame this is not more famous.
Zaslužila je bolju sreću, ali šta bih ja bez nje?
Otrgao sam je iz njenog svijeta, moji je ne vole, njeni je ne priznaju, i sve sam joj što ima, sve što je sanjala da će imati, ljubav, nježnost, sigurnost, štit.
To mi je pomoć, ti njeni djevojački snovi, još me sniva, željenog.
Ali šta će biti kad životna oluja pokida tu krhku pređu, tanju od paučine, i kad čovjek iz snova postane ono što sam ja ove noći, jadan i unižen?
Mirišem je kao cvijet: miris čist i drag.
Najljepša žena u gradu, rekao sam.
Delving deep into the Bosnian past in this dense historical novel, he charts the 18th-century adventures of narrator Ahmet Shabo, who returns with a heavy heart to Sarajevo from the battle of Chocim, in Russia.
Ahmet's perspective gives Selimovic a perfect opportunity to describe the Ottoman-ruled Sarajevo of 300 hundred years ago, riven then, as it is today, with hidden feuds and power politics.
One of Ahmet's comrades from Chocim, student Ramiz, stirs up trouble by speaking out in the mosque against the wealthy and powerful.
