https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156630.Pylon
'Been Slacking/Catching-Up on Reviews' Review:Everyone will tell you to skip Pylon and stick with the biggies. Tell everyone 'eat shit' for me, ok? This is vital stuff, and the absolutely essential last step that brought us Absalom, Absalom! This is pretty damn experimental writing for the time, and the cinematic mise-en-scène reminds me of, I don't know, Linklater's Slacker. You catch my drift. God, I sound like an asshole...
L’occasione, l’inaugurazione di un nuovo aeroporto, con gare di velocità tra aerei, air racing pylons credo si chiami, quasi una corsa all’interno di un circo massimo aereo nella costante sfida alla morte.
La passione, o meglio la fascinazione di lei, per il tipo che incarna, spinge il nostro cronista a partecipare alla storia scalcagnata della squadra di acrobati, a profondersi in tempo, energie e denaro per sostenerla, sostentarla.
Il tutto in una dimensione quasi di allucinazione, di confusione tra desiderio, speranza, delirio e realtà.
According to Polk, Faulkner wrote this novel in three months as a break from composing _Absalom, Absalom!_, and he revised in galley proofs.
Considering that, the corrected text (which restores Faulkner's original sentence and paragraph lengths, as well as some four-letter words the original publisher found offensive) is, all things considered, a very good novel.
It's certainly not Faulkner's best, probably because of the contemporary subject matter and issues (airplane racing, the poor state of safety standards and pay for pilots).
Even a minor Faulkner novel is a good novel in comparison with anything else around.
People need to lighten up on Faulkner's lesser known works.
Don't you think Falky got sick of writing about the South-as-snarky-palimpsest as much as a devotee of his works gets tired of reading about it?"Pylon" is everything you wouldn't expect: an emotionally disturbed, alcoholic reporter hangs out with a pair of amateur airmen and the girl they both sleep with.
She's their mechanic, sort of.
Sort of like air-carnies, the barnstormers try to win big at a local air show with the reporter's help.
It is darkly funny and sad and must have been a nice diversion for Falky.
The plot is seen largely through the point of view of an alcoholic reporter who becomes intrigued with a particular group of barnstormers: a pilot Roger Shumann, his wife Laverne, an unamed parachutist referred to as "the jumper," Laverne's young son whose father could be the son of several men including Roger or the jumper.And rounding out the group is an alcoholic mechanic named Jiggs.
Perhaps it is the journalist's rebuttal to the editor that gives a negated definition of what literature is: "[Whether] a man sleeps or not or why he can't sleep aint news...," which seems to say that why we can't sleep matters to a fiction writer like Faulkner (43).The reporter scans the headlines for his story as if to find himself in the world.
This book could eat my brain. I do not like erotic stuff in books I just don't it makes me board I mean it board board like I yawn but this book had a part about a woman who changed her cloths. It was so incredible it made me shake. I shook like I was well moved to the innermost core. I have a hard time with this book because I do not read faulker well. I get stumped I like to be entertained and after they start flying and own boots I get all drifty
There's not a lot flying going on, enough to give you an idea of the barnstorming days in the hanger, but the story centers on the relationship between a reporter who becomes entranced with a flying family: a pilot, a mechanic, a parachute jumper and their woman.
The intro also claims that you must read the book twice, once to get the airplane story past you, then to get the symbolism at work, well thanks to the clues given, I think i can handle it in one swoop.Interesting also is that Faulkner was a pilot, learned in the service, and he bought his brother a plane to go barnstorming.
Plus,the novel is extremely experimental in its use of compound words, and riddled with aviation jargon from the period between the world wars: it might as well have been written in Chinese.However, as the reading progressed, I warmed up to the cast of characters and got the intertextuality with Macbeth and Eliot's "Prufrock" and "The Wasteland", and that changed the way I read it.
Plus, the film adaptation, Douglas Sirk's "The Tarnished Angels", IS a masterpiece in itself, so even if the novel had only served to provide Sirk with the material for his movie, its existence would have been justified!
Yair! Yair! After watching Douglas Sirk’s bizarre masterpiece “The Tarnished Angels” I sought out “Pylon”, the source for this weirdo extravaganza. The dialogue in the book maintains that laughable “Showgirls” vibe in spades = “Yair! Why, they don’t have blood running through their veins, but crankcase oil, see?”, or “He was born on a parachute in an aircraft hangar, yair!!!” I’m assured from the cover blurbs that William Faulkner is a “master” and a “genius”. That makes him almost as superhuman as the daring stunt pilots in his book! Yair!!!!
There is a description of a man going through the urges of an alcoholic that made me fall in love with the writing of Faulkner all over again. Faulkner is able to do that with almost every book.
In a hindsight it is obvious that I have chosen wrong book to start my expedition into the literary world of a new author.
A story about 1930's group of stunt pilots in a fictionalized New Orleans is so far out there that you can't see the passport controls on the border of my comfort zone.
Characters are distant and unnatural, the reporter's love is just my interpretation, because he is almost impossible to understand in his never-ending sewer of a speech.It brings me to another problem I had with this book: the writing.
Too bad it was too late to save this pulp fiction of a novel.
As usual with Faulkner, a work of art stunning the reader by the end and full of emotional impact.
At first, this novel seems to exploit the knowledge Faulkner gleaned by his own piloting experience.
Perhaps these passages are why many readers rate this novel low among Faulkner's works.This book is about the modern American experience as realized in 1935.
Rather than depict the alienation and disillusionment of the Great Depression in Steinbeck's fashion, or ignoring it completely as Hemingway and Fitzgerald did, Faulkner transmogrifies it into the barnstorming experience.
In tutto questo il mondo degli aviatori altro non è che una splendida metafora della vita, dove ha luogo il contrasto fra le macchine e gli istinti primordiali umani: il sesso, l’universo femminile e la sua incomprensibilità ai più, la lotta per la sopravvivenza, il potere del denaro, il soccombere dei più deboli, i piloti come semplici uomini da intrattenimento e, quindi, sacrificabili, la stampa in cerca sempre del titolo a effetto e mai del che cosa si celi dietro ad esso… L’ambientazione ha sicuramente un forte impatto emotivo: il volo e l’aviazione, infatti, erano simbolo di eroismo ed eleganza, di un mondo che un tempo rappresentava il meglio in circolazione, la forza e la passione.
This year, I have resolved to read the four William Faulkner novels I have not yet read.
Curiously, they were the four novels that did not deal with the author's mythical Yoknapatawpha County and its inhabitants.
It deals with a newspaper reporter (the narrator, who is unnamed) fascinated by the disorderly lives of an airplane racing team consisting of a pilot, a parachute jumper, and an airplane mechanic.Oh, and there is a woman involved -- Laverne, who is shared in a menage à trois between the pilot and the parachute jumper.
no es una de las novelas + conocidas de faulkner, y debe ser pq no llega al grado de genialidad de otras obras suyas. es una novela q al ppio no se entiende mucho nada (como pasa en el ruido y la furia, mientras agonizo, etc), pero va creciendo en intensidad y termina bien. un faulkner mediano sigue siendo igualmente mejor que muchos otros escritores.
Faulkner is my favorite writer, but Pylon isn't very good. I would have given it two and a half stars if I could, and only that because I felt the last chapter redeemed the novel to some extent.I will add, however, that I would gladly read Pylon three more times before reading Mosquitoes again.
I'll have to put this on hold for a while until I get a hold of a decent copy, got a Danish translation by mistake. Thought it wouldn't be a problem at first, but I totally can't focus on the story when all the characters speak in 70s Copenhagen slang, it's just too damn weird.
William Faulkner is my favorite author, and reading this work just further solidifies that for me.
This novel is unlike most of his works - it is set outside of his creation Yoknapatawpha county, it doesn’t focus as much on southern ways of life and some of the main areas Faulkner often delves into.
I’ve only ever really read one Faulkner novel that wasn’t deeply dark, and that was The Reivers.
But all of this serves as a function of the story itself, compelling the reader toward a higher purpose, a deeper concept.
I decided to read this book when niece Kristin mentioned it in a post on FB.
Barnstorming became popular in the 1920s and was a form of entertainment in which daredevil pilots performed tricks and also participated in races.
In 1934 he went to participate in an air meet at Shushan airport near Lake Pontchartrain.
Kenily's wife held her infant son, Kristin's father, and watched on the shore with the horrified crowd.
The events are seen from the point of view of some of the characters but mainly from that of a reporter who becomes obsessed with a pilot, his stunt man, wife and a child of questionable paternity.
Continuing my multi-year, on-going task of reading Faulkner's entire canon.
I honestly thought the first 80% of the book was awful, predictable, and just the worst kind of self-indulgent.
Faulkner loved New Orleans and lost a brother who was a pilot, and the two things obviously mattered to him.
Much better than Mosquitos or Soldier's Pay. The end of the book was much less plot-driven and much more contemplative of the morality and mortality of the main characters.
I felt like I had Faulkner back, and I liked it enough that I seriously considered upping the book to four stars.
Magnificently vexing, as Faulkner tends to be (for me).
This is an atypical Faulkner novel, in that the American South isn't a central character (and it doesn't take place in Yoknapatawpha County).
Faulkner's fascination with aviation is central to the story (show-racing pilots and such).
The prose reads as poetry (no writer blends syllables and sounds as well — as consistently — as Faulkner did).
But the story has abrupt transitions, character holes, and shifts in tone that make it hard to absorb as a narrative tale.
Doesn't matter though.
A beautiful, brief journey alongside a young Faulkner developing his craft.
Lo dejé de leer, porque al 33% del libro, no entendí cuál era la trama. El autor se dedicaba a describir minuciosamente actos domésticos de los personajes, pero sin decirnos a dónde quería llevarlos o cuál era la razón por la describía todo. Al final, me pareció una novela netamente descriptiva de vidas patéticas, que deambulan por la vida, sin ton ni son. Me hartó.
Je ne sais pas pourquoi, WF, ça ne passe pas. Pourtant l'aventure de la voltige aérienne américaine était une belle toile de fond.
It's Faulkner at his worst, but mildly interesting.
Simply did not enjoy the reading of this book, only the second time to happen for me with this author. just was not able to get into it ????
"[I]t was as though all the faces, all the past twenty-four hours' victories and defeats and hopes and renunciations and despairs, had been blasted completely out of his life," Faulkner writes at another point, and it holds true for nearly every character; pain and suffering is felt anew each time, even where it ought to be expected, and progress can hardly be expected to last until the same time the next day.Pylon is a story of elemental human behavior, of the struggle to survive, mentally, physically, and emotionally; money shades every interaction in the book, from the basic day-to-day doling out of dwindling cash reserves to Faulkner's larger portrait of moneymen vs.
This is a very different story than most of Faulkner's work.
It takes place in a fictionalized New Orleans surrounding an air show at a new airport.
There are some great, drunk, entertaining characters, including one of the primary protagonists known only as "the reporter" who try their darndest just to make it in this crazy world.
Not to spoil anything, but it doesn't always work out.The writing is very hard to follow at times.
There are often multi-page paragraphs and with nothing other than a paragraph break the setting and characters can completely change.
The book gets off to a rough start - the prose is pretty thick in the first chapter and it is heavily influenced by Joyce's use of portmanteau words in which the author joins two or three words together such as choppingboardknife or wainscotingedges but from the second chapter onwards, Faulkner suddenly finds a groove and does not let up until the end.The story is about a love triangle of sorts, in which two men share a woman and these men are involved in the dangerous occupation of barnstorming - one is a pilot and the other a parachute jumper.
Hoping to become an aviator, Faulkner rushed to Canada, perfected an English accent, added the letter 'u' to his name {thinking it looked more English}, and was some how miraculously accepted for flight training.
Faulkner sent home photographs of himself in a lieutenants uniform complete with pilot wings and a walking stick.
There is no record of William Faulkner ever earning his pilot wings or receiving any type of flight training in the RAF.
Like in today's world of celebrities, Faulkner eventually earned his pilot license, which later provided the material for the novel "Pylon".
Oh, Faulkner was not afraid to churn out pulp when he could only rub pennies together.
I don't think he was shameless, I think he had pretty good take on the publishing biz and the worthiness of critical distinctions between literature and mere hackery.
And, I believe, he was cynical enough to on occasion calculate and deploy Elevated Prose when angling for a particular kind of critical acclaim.
The kind that wins Nobels.The only elevation here is towards hysteria.
The book is kind of awful, but we've got Faulkner here slinging hash here so it's a weirdly fascinating awful.
