https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/443769.The_Whitsun_Weddings
(For example, in spite of his love for jazz, he loathed be-bop and the “corpse-walking” sound of Miles Davis, and hated it when black people started moving on to his mother’s street.) Yet he was merciless in his own self-assessment: his love poems, like “Broadcast”, are often romantic epiphanies experienced in isolation, and in his lonely portraits and ironic monologues, like “Mr. Bleaney,” and “Self’s the Man,” or in the occasional meditation like “Dockery and Son,” Larkin is able to look squarely at the disconsolate man he would one day become.It is perhaps in the poems that depict England herself—menaced by selfish elites, reduced by vulgarity and cheap goods, yet alive even in the vanishing of her customs and traditions—that Larkin is most impressive.
My first impression upon beginning to delve into Larkin's oeuvre was, "This seems like the kind of poetry Charles Bukowski would have written if Bukowski had been (a) British and (b) more talented." Strange as the comparison might seem, I believe the 20th-century American poet whose public persona most closely resembles Larkin's is Bukowski: both Larkin and Bukowski self-deprecatingly portrayed themselves as rather boorish, caddish, peevish, cynical, frequently bored, unattractive, graying white men who liked to toss back a few drinks and ogle "bosomy" young female bodies.
This cost me a mere 50 cents!!!!And I know it will contain an absolute wealthof plain-speaking insig
Essential Beauty and Sunny Prestatyn are my favourites. They are of similar subject, advertising posters/billboards.Sunny Prestatyn is a marvel. Twenty four lines that describe what happens to a holiday poster over a period of time, probably over a few weeks or a month. The poem paints a brilliant description of the real world. The line 'She was too good for this life' is droll, and tragic, but the dry humour gets me every time. That poem is a novel and a movie. Genius.
The very first stanza in the collection grabbed my mind in this way - from 'Here': Swerving east, from rich industrial shadowsAnd traffic all night north; swerving through fieldsToo thin and thistled to be called meadows,And now and then a harsh-named halt, that shieldsWorkmen at dawn; swerving to solitudeOf skies and scarecrows, haystacks, hares and pheasants,And the widening river s slow presence,The piled gold clouds, the shining gull-marked mudFeel that?
But it feels to me that both poems exemplify what I think of as Larkin's harsh honesty, that sense of looking at the lives we try to lead in the darkest possible light.
It's really quite funny how cynical he is. I can relate. Also, I really don't think "tenderly observant" are the appropriate words to describe Larkin...? [Studying for AS English Lit]
I hadn't read poetry for a very long time, so at first it felt strange to be reading this.
It cast a spell over me (cliché but true) - I would read this on the bus and be transported to a certain time and place, or a certain atmosphere would engulf me.
I was puzzled by it being described as 'dark' by quite a few people.
Is stating how things really are 'dark'?Well, everyone has a different opinion, and I won't deny the melancholic mood of some of them - but for me the honesty & reality of these poems made them beautiful and thought provoking.
Verse from the shining crabass of 20th Century British lit
A devotee of Yeats, Hardy, and Dylan Thomas, Larkin never wears his influences too far away from his sleeve, but don't begrudge him that; marvel, instead, that in the turbulent anything-goes sixties lived a poet, misanthrope, and mild-mannered librarian (all in the same body, no less!) who swam against a stream of free verse and wrote, arguably, better formal verse than anyone since Swinburne.Larkin is a master of enjambment; if you encountered a random Larkin poem isolated from a collection, you might well not realize it's a formal poem until you're well into it, a hallmark of the best formal work.
The sublime can become the ridiculous far faster in formal verse than in free verse, leading to a judgment of "when he screws up, man, does he REALLY screw up." Such is the case with Larkin.
Initally I found it slightly depressing and a little too pessimistic...until we began reading Slyvia Plath.It took an essay entitled 'Making the mundane magnificent' for me to truly appreciate Larkin's wonderfully refreshing honesty.
Great poets can do this in a few hundred words.
Larkin in a great poet.
Honesty, without excessive emotion is one of Larkin's greatest skills.
Warm, accomodating and always trying to please, the house knows the lonliness of waiting for someone to come home.I love all of these poems - Larkin is a master of creating beauty from everyday occurances.
If you find him too depressing, read some Plath and try again.
Toads Revisited Walking around in the parkShould feel better than work:The lake, the sunshine,The grass to lie on,Blurred playground noisesBeyond black-stockinged nurses -Not a bad place to be.Yet it doesn't suit me.Being one of the menYou meet of an afternoon:Palsied old step-takers,Hare-eyed clerks with the jitters,Waxed-fleshed out-patientsStill vague from accidents,And characters in long coatsDeep in the litter-baskets -All dodging the toad workBy being stupid or weak.Think of being them!Hea
Toads Revisited	Walking around in the parkShould feel better than work:The lake, the sunshine,The gr
For such a short book, Whitsun Weddings runs the gamut from soft pastoral with an earthy sense of humor in the beginning to something with a harder edge by the end, complete with a ripped poster decorated with cock and balls. Some of the poems were very good, some seemed to end too soon. Nothing really seemed to have been chosen to go together, they are a hodge-podge, thrown together at will. By the end of the book I wasn't sure what I was supposed to feel, if anything. That being said, it wasn't bad.
This is Larkin's first for me. Can't say I didn't enjoy it, but not terribly too much. There were some thought-provoking lines, and some lines that were moving. The last line of last poem stayed with me, so that means the poet did his duty. I may read his verse again soon as I've marked a couple other of his poetry books to-read and hope I may find more poems there that has left me with the lovely sentiment as this one has.
I read Philip Larkin for higher English years ago didn't get it then and it put me off poetry. Now I m studying poetry for a Degree module I thought I d give it another go but sadly still don't get it! obviously still not intelligent enough for it
Larkin is 2 dimensional. The poem is either sweet and innocent, or ironic and sarcastic. It's his one trick, so you'd better like it.
Another one of Larkin's thin volumes of poetry. Beautifully crafted, but mainly melancholy poetry, each poem has a resonance of truth about it. Larkin is someone to read periodically to look at the uses of language and the care taken to develop and complete a poem. Each one has the high gloss of care and time and of being finished, which is a good thing in the fast-paced world of today.
Blimey! Can't fault the poetry, but maybe this collection could carry a health warning or subtitle, something like Or How To Enhance a Slightly Depressed View Of Post Brexit-Voting Britain On A Cold Dark Winter's Day... not recommended if you feel like you could do with something cheery😀
A masterpiece of postmodern poetry. Larkin cleanly bridges the Moderns' world and his own, expertly carrying their and previous eras' tropes forward while adding his mark. And his wit; it is like no other.
Larkin is not the worst of them by a long shot and I sensed in myself a wish to know more, but this volume is so short on back story, so short on an interesting introduction, that I decided the publisher had made an effort to be reticent on the basis of preserving this high art in a form the poet would of preferred or because they were cheap and decided to suck me in with some nice cover art.
I think the publisher did the poet, and poetry a disservice by keeping things so bare.
He died of throat cancer and refused the Poet Laureate position as he was a very drawn-in and private man; and not a fan of any kind of fame.
The Whitsun Weddings is a collection of 32 poems that focus of the mundanity of everyday life and the small things that people barely notice.
A lot of his best known poems are in this collection.
I prefer to read poetry out loud, but Larkin's poetry doesn't really lend itself to that, which may be because Larkin was a quiet, unassuming man with a stutter.
I came to Larkin quite late and read this about 10 years ago after reading Andrew Motion's biography of Larkin.
I came across a reference to An Arundel Tomb recently and I remembered how much I enjoyed the poems, so I dug out the collection.
Some of the best of the poems are so pared down but poignant, like Home is so Sad or deft and witty like Days.
I loved that on re-reading An Arundel Tomb, it wasn't exactly how I remembered it but that I had to read it several times to grasp the nuances, the layers I'd missed before.
I studies this collection at A Level alongside Dannie Abse's 'Welsh Retrospective' and at first found myself hating Larkin and just wanting him to cheer up a bit.
But when you look into the poems, I actually came to really like Larkin.
I thought some poems were hilarious and some really moved me.
Home Is So Sad is one of my favourites in the collection, it's so real and everyone can relate to it.
I also loved Talking In Bed and A Study of Reading Habits!
Every time I re-read a poem, I feel something different and that's an amazing experience as a reader.
Though occasionally so reflective that it shrinks up its very subject/dries up all emotion to the point where it disappears altogether, this was the best poetry I've read in the past year. Larkin has an incredible control of absolutely everything in his writing, though what stood out most for me was the superb syntax. Lucid, penetrating, with something of the intricate beauty but staleness of old lace. Perfect, if its perfection didn't get troubling at times.
This is my core poetry book for my AS English Literature course, and is an okay anthology. Although a critically acclaimed poet I feel his poems are just too 'deep' to enjoy the anthology. His use of rhetorical techniques are excellent but this isn't an anthology to pick up for some light reading, the final stanza of every poem is a pain as his underlying message must be worked out from his ambiguous prose.
In each of the three collections I've read by Philip Larkin, there have been at least a few poems that have caught me up short, and made me fret about my own life and mortality (I mean that as a compliment). 'Dockery and Sons', from this collection, is one such poem. This is from the final stanza:Life is first boredom, them fear.Whether or not we use it, it goes,And leaves what something hidden from us chose,And age, and then the only end of age.
After reading a review of Larkin in The Tablet I picked up my copy of The Whitsun Weddings to re-read some of the poems. As in the past, I am struck by Larkin's craft, his respect for rhyme and rhythm. The words flow naturally and I look back and see the tight rhyme scheme and wonder how he managed the free flow within those constraints. Landscapes and portraits brilliantly rendered. I will keep it out for a while to read some more.
Re-read this book 17 years after studying it for A Level. I loved it then and wanted to go back and see what I loved about it! Larkin is abrupt, frank, depressing and straight to the point but there is almost always a small element of hope in each poem. My favourite is The Arundel Toome which carries the theme of the passage of time.
I don't actually read poetry. I do read Larkin. Because he finds the words to express things that it is vital to express, even when it is very difficult for the rest of us, using normal language, to express.
These poems take a look at Larkin's personal life, and if you're into somewhat dark poetry then this is definitely for you. I didn't think I'd enjoy a class assignment so much!
Had to read this for my A-Level English coursework, Larkin will always come second to Plath in my eyes, but oh how Sunny Prestatyn encompasses my passion for feminism. It holds such a strong message.
