https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76334.A_New_Earth
Normally I don't really go for Oprah selections but I heard so many great things about it plus I am totally into new agey type things, I thought it would be right up my alley.My problem with this book was twofold.
Living in the present (you are not walking across the room to get a book, you are walking across the room), not letting your ego attach itself to things (that is not "my car" or "my house"), etc.
My kids are MY kids and even though that will likely make it harder for me when they are off to college and doing their own thing, I'm fine with that!
Here’s the author’s summary: “Enjoyment of what you are doing, combined with a goal or vision that you work toward, becomes enthusiasm.
Make sure your vision or goal is not an inflated image of yourself and therefore a concealed form of ego, such as wanting to become a movie star, a famous writer, or a wealthy entrepreneur.
Instead, make sure your goals are dynamic, that is to say, point toward an activity that you are engaged in and through which you are connected to other human beings as well as to the whole.
All this implies that your goal or vision is then already a reality within you, on the level of mind and of feeling.
This book simplifies complex notions of western approaches with an eastern point of view on metaphysics.
The more philosophy, Western and Eastern is accessible to the masses the better off we will all be.
If one is familiar with eastern concepts of spirituality this book will reinforce the ideas, if one is familiar with basic psychology and western philosophy one will be pleasantly reminded of the insights into human nature.
At the end of my philosophy studies I wanted to seek out reconciliation between eastern ideas and western ideologies this book successfully does this with an amazing ease.
I opened this book, hoping to find something inspiring, eye-opening, and life-changing.
Instead, it appears to be filled with the same old New Age babble about self-actualization and "each being the part of the one." It's not that I disagree -- it's just that I don't think there's anything particularly new or different.
The same old, same old about non-judgment, embracing all things, blah blah blah.
Call me crazy, but I think I've read this about 100 times before in every issue of New Age Journal.Not only that, but it was boring.
I had to force myself to keep reading.
at least i'm aware now that that feeling was just my ego so i can release it and it won't add any density to my "pain-body"come on...ok i finished it.
and i think he maybe sorta kinda won me over at the end...at least, i think i get what he was trying to say and like it I appreciate his respect and appreciation for religion and religious leaders (ie: Buddha, Jesus Christ and various Zen Masters)He basically says everything we do on this earth is secondary to our primary purpose of Being, and having a oneness with the universe.
His writing is very easy to understand --clear and simple and he shares insights that you can use in your life immediately.
The pain-body--a "psychic parasite" inside of us that feeds on drama and enjoys negative thoughts.
Once your mind is taken over by the pain-body, your thoughts will become negative.
The way to be free of the pain-body is to recognize it for the psychic parasite that it is and realize it is not you.2.
Understanding that no matter what is going on in your life--this too, will pass-- and being aware and totally in the present.
This book is so amazing, I had to read it slow so I would absorb it all. It moved me to tears many times, so I had to stop a lot! I have not read The Power of Now, but this one really resonated with me and current challenges in personal and planetary transformation. I loved how he snuck in bits from major religions and explained their universal relevance outside the context of their religious context. The personal examples are quite illustrative & help ground the book's meaning.
There are also a lot of contradictions in Tolle's writing/thought process.
Don't go on the message boards on Oprah's website because the people on there are crazy nutjobs and can't provide any helpful discussion on the book.
I also tried to make it through the online classes on Oprah's website but they are extremely long (an hour and a half for each chapter, of which there are ten total) and extremely boring (I fell asleep during most of them).
If the New Earth is one that is full of Tolle followers...
It was only moments after i read about "feeling my inner-body" that i was feeling my pillow and sleeping soundly (and this is no small feat.)However, the further i got into the book, the more i enjoyed it.The self-help author, highlights the benefits of life spent "in the moment" and gives concrete exercises to help 'transcend our ego-based consciousness'.
The German word for breathing- ATMEN- is derived from the ancient Indian (sanskirt) word ATMAN, meaning the indwelling spirit or God within.The fact that breath has no form is one of the reasons why breath awareness is an extremely effective way of bringing space into your life, of generating consciousness.'p.

In A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life’s Purpose, Eckhart Tolle simply and beautifully employs spiritual parables from many traditions to distill and illuminate the One truth to which they point: God in me; me in God. Form (the material world) is interpenetrated by nothingness (space, quantum possibilities, consciousness, spirit, God).
Tolle states that suffering is created when the ego identifies completely with form:1.
We use this ego consciousness as a vehicle to identify with form.
Tolle offers an alternative to identifying and defending our old physical, feeling and thought forms.
I feel like a lot of the ego stuff he was talking about is basically morals and values, of which if you already have a high regard for and were taught about them, then a new awakening to being good is sort of insulting.Anyone can be mindful for an instant, staying mindful, though, can be the work of a lifetime.
I am happy for him that he was able to "awaken" and get out of his hell that contributed to his depression and attempted suicide, but to assume that he is enlightened and can now enlighten everyone else is too weird.Not that I know a lot about Buddhism, but this book is basically everything I did learn in a few classes about Eastern religions.
In a weird way, I regret ever having read this book because it opened my eyes so greatly to the hidden egocentric motivation behind every human thought and action that I can't stop seeing the underlying ego behind everything, and everyone, I encounter.
As Mr. Tolle states, you'll never get rid of it, but my becoming more aware of it, it becomes easier to detach yourself from long-held beliefs that do not serve a greater purpose other than to give you a false illusion of who you think you are.
Our attachment to this false illusion only serves to spew out superiority over others while contributing nothing in return.
Notably missing is any treatment of ethics, or much in the way of implications at all.
All in all, I am probably giving him too much credit considering one section is titled "Incontrovertible Proof of Immortality".Stylistically: too verbose and repetitive.
Since he does a remarkable job of making a coherent case, some anecdotes could go missing or are off-the-mark.
Reads like a self-help book.Spiritually: matches my own beliefs closely and in some cases explained myself to me.
Reading such a verbose description of them provided me with tremendous food for thought.
Finally, there wasn't much in the way of new ideas for me.

I also remember the great inspiration and clarity I felt while reading.
Here is why I'm so discouraged with Eckart Tolle these days:,He is famous for his book 1) The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment.
It's a great spiritual growth book and one to really make you think.
The way Tolle addresses the "why" is more in line with Advaita Vedanta, and therefore he does not have a clear cause for the dynamics of guilt, as the Course offers in the notion that the world was made as an attack on God, and is a projection from the mind, not a creation of God. But he does a lot to clarify the guilt mechanism in ways that nicely complement the picture, and can help you see things you might not have noticed before.On the whole the book seems very helpful to me, and certainly has a very insightful way of helping us understand our inner workings better, and moreover point the way out of the labyrinth, not deeper into it, which is more than can be said for a lot of materials that are paraded around as spirituality.To watch his presentations on Oprah's show is delightful, and documents that there is a huge pent up demand for this type of information.
His book A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life's Purpose is Oprah's 61st choice for her book club.
Tolle's A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life's Purpose is a fantastic book for anyone who is looking for some illumination on life.
I think any book that can affect a person's thoughts or life as Eckhart's books have done deserves to be read with an open mind and heart.
After all, I've discovered that one of my life's purposes is to write novels that make people think.
It also gives practical advice (if you're willing to hang in there) about how to transform your thinking so as to improve your life and truly live in the Now. Tolle pulls from every religious system out there, and introduces new (to me) perspectives on biblical passages and this may put off some readers.
It seemed that every time I grew weary of it and was on the verge of putting it down, I would come across a gem that resonated so significantly that it kept me reading.

This is basically The Landmark Forum in book form.
I'm very curious about the relationship between Tolle and Landmark Education, but I haven't been able to find any info on that so far.
I suspect that I find this book so powerful because I've done The Landmark Forum.
I suspect it might be a little too theoretical to have much practical impact on my real life if I didn't have that background and training.
Read this book if you've ever considered doing the Forum to get a little taste of what the Forum is about, and then go do the Forum to have it actually make a difference in your life.
I just spent the last five plus hours researching, reading this fucking Eckhart Tolle.
He doesn't even need a whole page within a book.In fact his teachings can be very detrimental, since it is urging us to reduce the amount of time we spend planning for the future.
Other things the ego will identify with in order to feel good include our work, social status, knowledge and education, physical appearance, belief systems, and also political, racial, nationalistic, religious or other collective identities.
A life-saver.
~Eckhart Tolle"...the voice in the head, perhaps in the very moment it complains about something, and recognize it for what it is: the voice of the ego, no more than a conditioned mind-pattern, a thought".
~Eckhart Tolle"See if you can catch yourself complaining in either speech or thought, about a situation you find yourself in, what other people do or say, your surroundings, your life situation, even the weather.
~Eckhart TolleIf nothing else after reading the book, one might begin to live in the moment more often and take time to consciously breath.
I'm getting it and appreciate the book even more.
I was so absolutely disappointed with this book.
With all the hype I thought it might actually be something good but surprised at how much bull was in it!
If you want to be told that EVERYONE (including yourself) is Schitzo, posessed and unconsciouss well, then read the book.
For anyone that has a bone of logic in their body - don't bother - you'll see the flaws very easily!
There are so many factual flaws in this book that I'm surprised that it has become as popular as it has.
I loved the way the 'A New Earth' brings light to how we can get past our ego-based conciousness to really experience happiness.
One of my favorite quotes was on page 134, "Although the body is very intelligent, it cannot tell the difference between an actual situation and a thought.
It reacts to every thought as if it were a reality..." Another favorite is on pg.
112, "Negativity is not intelligent....Cleverness is motivated by self-interest, and it is extremely short-sighted.
Most politicians and businesspeople are clever.
Very few are intelligent..Cleverness divides; intelligence includes." Wow, my book is filled with Post-Its!
Wow. This is a life changing book. My only criticism is that Tolle is a theorist and so doesn't give many applicable examples of how to use the theories in real life. This I've had to do on my own. But this book is well worth the read. Here's the rub: you can read it and do nothing or you can read it and try to alter your way of thinking. When will someone write a book that makes people's lives change that doesn't take work??? :)
الكتاب رائع وكثير من فصوله استوقفتني مطولًا وجعلت عقلي فضاءً رحبًا.الفصول التي تحدث فيها عن الأنا جعلتني أؤمن أن تضخمها في عالمنا العربي تحت ما يسمى الكرامة والشرف وغيرها هو أحد مشاكلنا الجوهرية.خلاصة الكتاب هي "عش اللحظة الراهنة فهي الحياة" وأن تأجيل السعادة للمستثبل يعني ضمنيًا أن اللحظة الراهنة عائق يجب تجاوزه مايجعل الحياة جحيمًا معاشًا من أجل مستقبل غير موجود.
هذا كتاب لا يُقرأ .. هذا كتاب يُحتفى بقراءته .. من أفضل ما قرأت في حياتي .. فوق الوصف وفي عنق الدهشة وأكبر من اللغة .. كتاب يفتح الضوء داخلك .. الأرض الجديدة ليست يوتوبيا .. الأرض الجديدة هي أنا وأنت .. هي الوعي والحضور .. هي الحقيقة .. التي فتحت ثقبا ينزف منه الفرح في داخلي ..
شعـــــــــــــاع من روح الكون يغزو تفاصيلــــــــي في هذا الكتاب ...
