https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129565.Financial_Peace_Revisited
This man has had time to update things.He blathers about how everyone can save and stay out of debt, and yet makes the assumption that everyone is going to find work all the time that will pay at least $30,000 a year, which he classifies as really low-end income.
Saving money and paying toward debt only ever works when something can be cut somewhere to save.And the part that made even these socioeconomic gaffs is his ridiculous stereotypical worldview in which everyone is going to get married.
In one pretty straightforward chapter about investing, Sharon's section explicitly tells women to ask their husbands to explain it to them.
I like how Dave covered everything from getting out of debt, to staying out of debt, to money for singles, married, divorced, etc., to building wealth.
My favorite things about this book were how Dave explained The power of compound interest and mutual funds when they're working for you.
I know I'll be putting large amounts of money into savings and mutual funds.
I also know I will be very tight on enjoyment spending during college so I don't need to get student loans.
This is one of the top ten books I would recommend every teen read.
His book "Total Money Makeover" had been suggested to me and then read and reviewed before.Financial Peace Revisited had a few extra insights in it that I enjoyed, but I probably wouldn't have done anything more than flipped through it were it not for my reading group.I might reference his categorical generalizations of the financial decisions people tend to make throughout life, simply as a way to remind myself what to be aware of.
Other than that, my overall advice regarding this advice-giving book: if you've read one of his books you've read them all.
Common sense and practical financial information and advice that most people already  know , but don't always follow. The back of the book contains a myriad of worksheets to help you after you read. Dave's wife, Sharon, comments at the end of every chapter, which wasn't very informative or interesting. Otherwise, a decent primer for the average Joe to refresh his financial saavy or learn it new.
I assume that there is a need for a book such as this - in fact I'm sure of it, given how many copies have been sold. But I am not the target audience. There is nothing here that is new to me, and I found it tedious, repetitive and unhelpful. I don't like being this harsh, but it is the truth.
Great read! Lots of tips and tricks about handling money. Definitely a good follow up to Total money makeover.
While the book is a bit dated, although revised (e.g., using cheques to pay bills), it is still one of the best sources of great money management that I have seen. Several other "budgeting" workshops that I have taken over the years use much of this information. The best part of this book, however, are the Financial Planning worksheets included in the Appendix of the book. Very useful basic information for anyone wanting to control their finances instead of their finances controlling them. Four starts just because of the worksheets; otherwise 3 starts for the book material.
While some info in this is slightly dated the advice remains relevant. While we have slowly and admittedly inconsistently practiced the advice offered, already it has helped me be aware of money like never before. Definitely something or everyone in this book, from the struggling millennial to the baby boomer unable to retire. Financial Peace offers everything in the title and more.
I had to read this for school but I really enjoyed it. It's definitely a book that has helped me understand money a little better and I HIGHLY recommend that every person read it.
Found the author's podcast recently during one of my long trips on the road. After listening I was determined to get a hold of this book. Now that I've read it, I do see the need for proper management of what God has given to us in the form of money. Money is a gift and the principles outlined here are a good guide to managing your finances. This is a must have if you are; trying to stay out of debt, trying to build wealth, and ultimately trying to serve God with what He has allowed you to have.
I really do love this program..I need to figure out a way to manage this and do all of the financial things that are really necessary when we all die.
Ramsey's advice is for the most part solid, although he can be extreme with his anti-debt stance (he even wants you to pay off your mortgage ASAP).
I would be comfortable recommending this book to someone who might find it helpful: a decent, salt-of-the-earth, financially struggling, Christian conservative.What Ramsey gets especially right is the attitude.
He actually gets into politics fairly rarely, but I had to stop listening because it's often enough that it makes me feel upset and ill.
Actually, Dave Ramsey is a lot of like Suze Orman.
I got introduced to Dave Ramsey with "The Total Money Makeover" audiobook and I thought it was fantastic.
Financial peace is a good book, it has solid financial advice and if someone can incorporate the principals in their life then they will be better off.
Unfortunately for me, this book is not nearly as good as "The Total Money Makeover" Dave Ramsey narrates TMM and he crushes it.
In Financial Peace the narrator does a bad Dave Ramsey impression and there is a lot of extra fluff and it's a slog to get through.
If you're a pagan like me, you may choose to tithe to charities that provide food, clothing, shelter, education, and health care to those more or less rich than you, to the panhandler on your street, some Kickstarter, Giveforward, or impoverished friend or relative you know is in need.
Tithing is a good idea and religious specifics don't matter.Regarding the book's sexism, widely castigated on GoodReads: it's obvious to everyone, so what can I say?
Dave Ramsey has taken a tested and true set of principles, threw some scripture quotes in, and called it "Financial Peace." And that's fine, because if it helps to get people to get their cash flow under control, more power to him.As a representative of the genre this book belongs to, it really is not bad.
What matters is that the author puts in front of the reader a clear plan and reasons on how his system works.
Its up to the reader to decide if he/she chooses to follow it, and how devoted to the system that person will be.And that is the true rating of this kind of book.
If someone is in dire straits financially, this book is invaluable for tips, strategy and plain common sense for savings and dumping debt.
His baby steps for financial peace are applicable to anyone in any circumstance, especially the emergency fund in a money market account and the debt snowball.
For someone who has never paid a penny of credit card interest in 12 years, but who enjoys free money from the credit card company every year, then cutting up my credit cards makes no financial sense.
However, most people do in fact spend more when using credit cards, so this tip is essential for them.

There are few books that are as straight and to the point about money, and getting out of debt as this one.
More importantly, Dave Ramsey has the personal experience in applying what he teaches, and although there aren't any "smoke and mirrors," if you do what he says, I think you will agree that this is by far the best book on building wealth, paying off debts AND living on a cash only system.
I honest don't know any other book to recommend on building TRUE wealth, other than his.Like Dave says, "The quickest way to get rich quick is to NOT get rich quick."
Although I'm not 100 % agreed on what Dave Ramsey said but I found that collection worth reading or even listen to it on your way to work .
I enjoy it very much specially he told us a wonderful stories such the story of orange in negotiation section .
He had lots of ideas on budgeting like envelope for every monthly expenses " I tried it & it work !!" .
Dave was brave when he told us how he went bankrupt in the past .The last but not least Dave Ramsey opens our ears when he says the The borrower is slave to the lender ..
I read this book in 2005 while attending "Financial Peace University" at my church. The combination helped me change the direction of my financial life, motivated me to pay off all my debts, helped me become a much better saver, and equipped me with the knowledge to help several of my friends become debt-free too! I highly recommend this book and the FPU course to anyone that does not have a financial plan for their life, and I am more than willing to share what I have learned and help you get to FREEEEEDOM too. : )
I read this book after I began listening to Dave Ramsey. Now I am rereading it while leading his Financial Peace University. The information in this book is worth millions of dollars if you get it. There's no reason any one can't become a millionaire. I highly suggest going thru this book and FPU.
If everyone would get out of debt and stop paying intrest to creditors, there would be so much money freed up to do good in the world.
Geared for a bit simple-minded audience.
very good. could use some detailed scenarios that might come up with budgeting like dealing with biweekly paychecks.
If I had only been taught these steps in jr. high and high school I would be independently wealthy today. Ramsey is a money genius.
Very good, realistic advice. It all makes sense.
Another great book by Dave.
However, I am now going through my bookshelf and re-reading old books and came across this one.The thing is, I really, really want to say good things about this book because the program had such a positive impact on our life.
The mutual fund chapter, for instance, has us talking about eating Alpo dog food, listening to someone named George and then goes on to give conflicting advice about IRAs. I could follow along because I have experience in the topic, but I think someone new to mutual funds would be totally lost.And close your ears Sharon Ramsey because I don't want you to hear how much I disliked the sections written by you.
He pays homage to the fact that some people are not married, and that some wives are more adept with money than their husbands, but this comes across as forced when taken in context of the little asides from his wife at the end of each chapter admonishing wives to curb their shoe shopping.
Truly impoverished people are never mentioned, and would no doubt find his personal story of losing his Mercedes to bankruptcy tepid if not offensive.All told, the advice itself is sound, but I think it’s preferable to listen to The Dave Ramsey show, where he takes calls from a broad cross-section of society and where you know the numbers are current.
He repeats a lot of talking points you will have likely read before: save up $1,000 for emergency fund, pay off your debts starting with the smallest first, don't use credit cards, and so on.
I really appreciated the sections where he talked a lot about how to deal with money between your significant other and your family.
As someone without a significant other and finances independent from my family, I felt like these chapters didn't apply to me, but they were great reads nonetheless.
