https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12969.Winter_s_Tales
I think short story collections are often a bit hit or miss, but I enjoyed every single story in this collection.
I think it was C.S. Lewis who said that one day we'll be old enough to read fairytales again, and I think that's definitely true for me now.
These stories definitely had a fairytale-like quality to them and they were very enjoyable; not only were her descriptions of the Scandinavian region inviting, there was also a lot of wisdom to her words.
Apparently "Out of Africa" showcases Dinesen's/Blixen's writing a lot better so I know I'm in for a treat.
The story not only calls to mind the Danish landscape, but also Danish history for Adam had been away on a mission involving the punishment of Queen Caroline Mathlide.
The Queen, wife of the insane Christian VII, had an affair with her husband's physican Johann Friedrich Struensee, some time after she gave birth to the heir.
This whole story hangs over Blixen's story and its theme of youth versus age, for the Queen and her lover were more popular than the step-mother, at least with the common people.What also flows though these stories is the theme of the influence of art and sailoring.
Unlike many of my friends I was cursing El Nino for taking away that sacredly Canadian season.It turned out, for reasons which I do not completely understand, that this collection of short stories was also unusually frail and, like the season in which it was read, often disappointing.Isak Dinesen is one of those names which sometimes pops up as a missed opportunity for the Nobel Committee to award a woman who was certainly deserving and so, having some regard of the prize and believing that it often awards (or almost awards) many writers who are remarkably talented, I came to this collection expecting something really quite astounding.
And then I realized the chill of history blew through these intricate tales especially the harrowing "Sorrow Acre", but these stories are surprising and unpredictable rather than bleak ruminations from Dineson's strange erudite mind.
These resemble short stories or tales(10-20 pages)more so than the dense novellas of "Seven Gothic Tales", they offer similiar reflections on identity, defiance, story telling, and history all set in the fantasia that she makes out of 19th century Europe, but while nothing is amazing as "The Monkey" or "The Dreamers" here, but some like "Sorrow Acre" come close.
11 short stories which draw you in quickly - Dinesen has a gift for sparking interest in her characters from the outset and for pulling you into another world...
Dinesen's nostalgia for her country and its people can be felt strongly, which is part of the spell of these tales.
"Peter and Rosa" is a beautiful, sensitive narrative about two young people whose worlds - inner and outer - are opening up, but also coming together in an unexpected and unforgettable way....A must-read set of stories for Dinesen enthusiasts - both for their own sake, but also for their status as the author's own favourite.
Par cik augstākas debesis ir pār zemi, tik augstāki ir Tavi stāsti pār mūsu stāstiem!""..viņš iedomājās, ka cilvēka runa ir centrbēdzes funkcija, pastāvīga bēgšana no runātāja paša būtības.""Zvaigznes, tās neiekāro.Par to krāšņumu priecājas."/Johans Volfgangs Gēte/"Īstam pētniekam un patiesības meklētājam, kas ne par kādu cenu nepadodas, dažreiz roku pasniedz pats liktenis.""Ir laiki, kas ir tik skaisti, ka domāt par tiem uzreiz nav iespējams uzdrošināties.""Ir tāds prieks atkal satikties, un tomēr tikai tādos gadījumos ir jūtams, kā rit laiks.""..šajos pirmajos ziemas mēnešos kļuva skaidrs, ka Jenss nekādā ziņā nav tāds cilvēks, kas var apmierināties vai aprimt ar to, ko cilvēki parasti sauc par laimi un pārticību.
Several years ago I read this author's full-length pastiche 'The Angelic Avengers' & enjoyed it, but these shorts were interminable.
In short: I found these too depressing to enjoy for the language & too wordy to be immersive tales of incident.
This is the sort of fiction I just don't enjoy anymore.
Reality is hard enough; I don't want to spend my reading time with talking heads who serve no purpose but to further illuminate the suffering of mankind & then shrug it off as "Well, such is human experience!
This is just not as good as her earlier collection "Seven Gothic Tales," which has some of the best short stories ever written.
That book had a youthful excitement and vigor, full of surprising stories that delighted in the art of keeping the reader on his toes.
"Winter's Tales" is much...frostier.
It feels as if Dinesen has decided not to be childish any more and instead feels obliged to share great "mature" wisdom with everyone without bothering to tell a ripping good story.
Mind you, "Winter's Tales" was written during the dark days of WWII, so there's a reason why she's not as chipper.
I picked up this book in the past summer when I was thinking about the "snow queen" (H. Ch. Andersen) and was just curious to read some more danish fairy tales. But these stories were not what I expected, i.e. for children. They are 11 stories, mostly romantic (except 3 of them). I liked very much the narrative style with colorful descriptions, fjord-ish construction and sometimes unexpected situations. I also enjoyed some of the fantastic elements. But most of all I liked "Peter and Rosa", a love story with a tragic (expected) end.
This is a beautiful and life-changing book of stories. Really something special.
Like many Americans (I suspect), my introduction to Isak Dinesen was via the film version of Out of Africa. I actually never saw it until an adult, but my mother bought the film tie-in copy of  Out of Africa and Shadows On the Grass  which I read cover to cover two or three times in high school -- and my Dinesen obsession was born.This collection of eleven short stories has the feel of a 19th-century fairy tale collection; while reading, I found myself musing if these stories were the ones Kare
There were delightful passages in every story, wryly funny and very true, such as:"Jensine would never have married a man whom she did not love; she held the god of love in great respect, and had already for some years sent a little daily prayer to him: "Why doest thou tarry?" But now she reflected that he had perhaps granted her prayer with vengeance, and that her books had given her but little information as to the real nature of love." (page 109, from "The Pearls")For those who are new to Dinesen, this is an excellent introduction as she is a writer of more than just memoir; those who have read Out of Africa have gotten a taste of the dreamy, meditative way she tackles life, and these stories are an extension of that.
She was an excellent story writer.
Sorrow Acre was my favorite of the short stories.
For example, this is the first paragraph -- "The low, undulating Danish landscape was silent and serene, mysteriously wide-awake in the hour before sunrise.
There was not a cloud in the pale sky, not a shadow alone the dim, pearly fields, hills and woods.
Unwatched by the eyes of man, and undisturbed by his activity, the country breathed a timeless life, to which language was inadequate." And there are ten short stories which are beautifully written, and so endearing, that they will stay with you years later.
This is my first taste of Karen Blixen/Isak Dinesen and I was in love from the first page.
In fact, I'm planning on buying everything by this author and I rarely am that passionate.
Blixen reminds me a lot of Flannery O'connor in the religious imagery, the intensity of the characterization and the perplexing endings.
She makes me as charmed with 19th century Europe as OConnor does with Depression era and Post War South.
Mans like with OConnor, when I'm done, I feel like I've had a worshipful experience.
Pity the poor author who I read next.
This was a great book. I loved all the different stories this book had to tell! SOOOO much detail!
Love her. The Man with the Pink Carnation is my favorite, the Blue Jar is a great story. <3
DNF at 82 pages. The first four stories didn't work for me. Not sure what was missing, but I just don't want to continue.
I did not enjoy this collection as much as her “Last Tales”, and the review would have been three stars. However, the inclusion of the stunning “Peter and Rosa” is worth the highest of ratings...
Questa serie di racconti mi ha ricordato diversi autori, dalla Gente di Dublino di Joyce a Mann con la sua Morte a Venezia, passando per i racconti de La casa dei melograni di Wilde.
Pur nella loro diversità, c'è un certo filo comune dato dallo stile della narrazione, che sia nei racconti più fantastici che in quelli più realistici mantiene sempre un'atmosfera onirica e incantatrice.E' stato il mio primo incontro con la Blixen e certamente fa venire voglia di continuare a leggerla, complice l'aver scelto il momento perfetto per leggere dei racconti d'inverno.
„Sunt vremuri grele pentru visători”, spunea Amélie Pulan în Amélie, acum 14 ani, și pot să continui spunând că sunt cu atât mai grele pentru scriitorii visători, fiindcă în lumea grăbită de azi visul nu prea își mai are locul nici măcar în locul unde acesta ar trebuie să fi la el acasă: între paginile unei cărți bune.
Așa face și Karen Blixen, autoare pe care am citit-o acum foarte mulți ani, cu o carte care m-a atras, Din inima Africii, și din care nu îmi mai amintesc nimic, doar un sentiment de uimire și încântare, așa cum se întâmplă uneori cu cărțile citite în copilărie.
I spent a week in thrall to these tales, each one a world that opens immediately--as if evoked, fully-fledged and fleshed, by "once upon a time"--and closes completely, like a stone tossed into a vast, calm, black lake.
She understands how to let the reader's imagination fill in between the lines.
No-one writes like this anymore; so many writers feel the need to research their fiction and then over-play that research, letting knowledge overwhelm the story rather than inform it.
These stories are wholly engrossing and just plain entertaining, the way fables are to children, especially when read aloud.
Winter's Tales
I read this book on a short trip to Denmark because I hoped to visit Karen Blixen's home/museum outside Copenhagen.
Reading the short stories in Winter's Tales, many set in Denmark and often a century before she wrote them, I became immersed in the characters and surprising twists in her tales, making my visit to her home so special!
Years ago, after reading Out of Africa, I'd visited her home/museum outside Nairobi.
Karen Blixen was a multitalented and thoughtful woman who created stunning homes filled with art, including her own paintings, interesting furniture, and vases filled with flowers cut from her own gardens.
This collection happened to lean toward the first.Dinesen writes beautifully, absolutely beautifully.
From "The Sailor-Boy's Tale": "It was April, the sky and sea were so clear that it was difficult to hold one's eyes up against them - salt, infinitely wide, and filled with bird-shrieks - as if someone were incessantly whetting invisible knives, on all sides, high up in Heaven." I definitely want to read more of her work.Another reason these stories struck me: I believe I have finally found an author whose love for the ocean can be quantified only with infinity.
There are some fairy-tale elements to this book; mostly it's the tone.
Each tale might as well begin with, "once upon a time." Dinesen admitted to being heavily influenced by the Romantics, and rejecting the so-called "realism" popular in Denmark at the time on the basis that she simply wanted to tell beautiful stories.
But only the sailor boy's story has elements of magical realism.
In most of the stories, nothing "magical" happens; it is the characters' recognition of foreign feelings and flashes of insight that provide the "fairy-tale" endings; the conclusions are surprising, yet inevitable.
"In all the short lifetime of Danish summer there is no richer or more luscious moment than that week wherein the lime trees flower.
The heavenly scent goes to the head and to the heart; it seems to unite the fields of Denmark with those of Elysium; it contains both hay, honey, and holy incense, and is half fairy-land and half apothecary's locker.
But behind the walls the vaults were benignly cool and sombre, like ambrosial sanctuaries in a dazzling and burning world, and in here the ground was still moist."

Blown away by her style, grace with language, in terms of descriptions and power to evoke everything and anything she wants for the reader to witness. A blending of tale as a form and short story, old and modern. Reminiscent of Kate Mansfield's style.
Dinesen's Out of Africa is one of my all time favorites. But with the exception of Babette's Feast, I find her fiction hard going. It seems to operate at a remove for me. Maybe it's the fable-like quality, but I'm seeing through a glass darkly.
Similarly, in Peter and Rosa they both die in what could be considered a trivial manner, but I also saw it as a redemption and, in a way, fitting.I definitely missed a lot of subtext in this one, and I will definitely have to go through it again in future, but as far as my visceral feelings toward it go, I followed along each story happily.
Karen Blixen is definitely one of the greatest writers of stories I could name, and has a true ability to create people, and to instill a real feeling of higher ideals in the world that I struggle to find in other writing.
Old fashioned, but not in a good way. Sluggish prose, characters who orate instead of converse, and little action. And the author is too preoccupied with the upper classes - in “Sorrow-Acre”, the focus should be on the heartbreaking story of an old peasant woman trying to save her son from a lifelong prison sentence, but instead it’s mostly the philosophical musings of a rich landowner. The only reason I’d ever read the book again is for the excellent “The Young Man With the Carnation”, but that single story isn’t enough to keep me from donating the book to Goodwill.
Dinesen’s prose style less intricate than her earlier stories collected in Seven Gothic Tales (SGT).
This may have to do with the circumstances under which Winter Tales was published during the Nazi occupation of Denmark.
In retrospect, I would have rather first read Winter Tales with a less intricate and developed prose style and then followed it by reading SGT as the latter took some getting used to.
Reading Dinesen is less about the tales and more about her aesthetics which she has consistently worked into almost every one.
