https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32104.False_Colours
Unfortunately for Kit and Evelyn, their charming, lovely mother is a complete spendthrift, and unless Evelyn marries Cressy he won't be given control of his own fortune, and won't be able to pay off Mama's massive debts and rescue the family from certain disgrace, and he and Cressy both understand it's going to be a marriage of convenience.
But like most all Georgette Heyer books, the fun is in the ride and the witty dialogue, not so much in whatever surprises there are to be gleaned from a genre so littered with tropes.
A lovely light easy read just like all Georgette Heyer's romances. This one stars one of her best male leads in Kit who is half of a pair of identical twins. Identical that is in appearance but not apparently in character and charm. Her books are still the best Regency romances out there and they are certainly standing the test of time. To me they are the literary equivalent of comfort food:)
*hugs* Let me help you with anything I can, even though I hate this masquerade of taking Evelyn's place!
Lady Denville seriously stole my heart though, she was the sweetest, most adorable Mama ever and she was such a crack-up!
Her sons so totally feel the same way, heck they are at their wits' very end trying to find a way out of the enormous mountain of debts without creating a scandal.False Colours is a lot more "comedy of manners" and family-oriented than "romance", but I loved Kit and Cressy a lot nonetheless, and thought they made a charming couple, definitely perfect for each other.
Next time a pre GH's death copy turns up at my work (I volunteer at an op shop) I'm going to bring it home & go through the book with a red pen!I do like the stock painting Arrow has used on this cover but my favourite remains this one.
One of my all time favourite GH covers.Edit; Sorry for all the typos - even worse than usual!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's best read at speed, because all the joy of this book is in the very silly twin-swapping masquerade and the ridiculous secondary characters like corpulent Sir Bonamy Ripple (what a name!) and fierce, old, match-making, dragon, Grandmama (I forget her name already, but if you've ever read a Heyer then you know the character I mean!).
Everybody here is adorable, despite not deserving to be so at all: airheaded, spendthrift mama; self-indulgent aristocrat; bipolar brother; possessively devoted servants: I love them all.
That's much better than the sourer Heyer's where the servants are stupid figures of fun, the love rivals are joyless bluestockings and spoilt brats, and the heroes are cold and masterful.
And how she takes things lightly is what really surprises me for how can a person with tremendous debts ever feel so light n without a jot of discernible care I couldn't fathom!Cressy is not one of my favourite Georgette Heyer heroines.
Also, I liked the secondary characters of Fimber and Challow.Overall Georgette Heyer took good care to plan and plot the story amazingly, just so that you are persuaded to believe in the unbelievable!
There are many things I love about False Colours—the hero, Kit, is one of my favorite among Georgette Heyer’s men; his mother, Lady Denham, is one of her most perfect wigeons; and the Dowager and Sir Bonamy are delightful secondary characters.
But the novel makes its way only into my second rank of Georgette Heyer favorites because of the plotting.Kit Fancot, the younger of a pair of identical twins, comes home to London from his diplomatic post in Vienna because he has sensed that something is wrong with his brother, Evelyn, Lord Denham.
How can False Colours possibly be considered a romance novel when the main character spends eighty percent of his time with his mother, fifteen percent with his valet, servants, and friends, and a pitiful five percent with his beloved?I actually enjoyed the first eighty or so pages of this novel, but by the time it became abundantly clear that the novel would consist of Kit spending his days with his mother, the novel quickly too one a nails-on-chalkboard feeling.
The couple in False Colours, Kit and Cressy, were in reality quite likable, but they get so little time together, so little play in the novel that the whole point of the story is lost.And I quickly lost interested in Heyer’s novel, and wound up skimming the last one hundred pages because I couldn’t stand it any longer.
Omigod this book was SO FUN.
It was just pure delight and put a smile on my face more than once.
Which felt a bit silly because I was listening to an audiobook, usually on public transport, and sitting there grinning to myself.
But I didn't care because it was awesome.
What could be more fun than twins switch places?Oh right, HOT twins switching places.
In Regency England.
And having to pretend to be engaged.
And actually falling in love.
But, importantly, this story isn't mere farce, thanks largely to the touching and genuine-feeling relationships.I LOVED IT.
When I picked up False Colours by Georgette Heyer, I knew to expect a well-written, regency romance filled with laugh out loud humor and well developed characters.
In order to keep from embarrassing Cressy and both families, he finds himself reluctantly talked into masquerading as Evelyn at the couples engagement party.
She is a very likeable, intelligent heroine who is no spitfire, but definitely holds her own with Christopher.
But, I will admit that because of the circumstances that Kit finds himself in, and the relationship that develops between he and Cressy, my mind quickly changed about the deception that Kit must portray.
I read all of Georgette Heyer's books in my teens and enjoyed most of them thoroughly.
I’m about ready to give up on it completely, because I now find myself skimming through the same conversations about Lady Denville’s extravagant purchases that I read on pages 1-30.
I am stopping here to write this review because I do know that Heyer wrote much more gripping novels than this one, and readers shouldn’t waste their time on a mediocre book like False Colours when they can choose another of her works that would prove to be a far more enjoyable read.
Evelyn is due to visit his potential bride's family soon and if he isn't home in time then Kit will have to take his place.
Kit seems like a better man than Evelyn.
Amabel, Lady Denville, is the most annoying, immature mother of a main character in all of Heyer's novels.
She was married at a young age to a man who didn't love her but plenty of other characters in the Regency world as defined by Heyer make do and learn.
Amabel is very similar to Nell in April Lady.Cressy is the one character I really liked.
My second favorite secondary character is Clara's mother.
Indeed, though I've read the book more times than I can confidently state and I know very well how things will resolve, I'm not even a little bit tempted to simply stop reading once Kit and Cressy declare their devotion to one another or when even Evelyn shows up to tell them where he's been.The thing is, Heyer has populated the book with such engaging characters that you really aren't ready to be done with them until everybody is reasonably well-settled.
While not her best work or my most loved, this continues to be on my high rotation list because I simply enjoy spending time with these characters.
Kit Fancot returns home from his diplomatic job in Europe because he feels his twin brother, Evelyn is in trouble.
His feeling turns out to be correct as Evelyn has disappeared just after he proposed to Cressy Stavely.
He has been invited to meet her relations on the day after Kit's return and his mother persuades Kit to take his brother's place as they are almost identical.
What follows is an amusing story of mistaken identities and a mysterious disappearance which turns out to be much more prosaic than expected.There are some marvellous characters in this book including one of Heyer's best comic characters - Sir Bonamy Ripple, Kit and Evelyn's mother's life-long admirer.
All the lady’s relations have been gathered to meet Evelyn, and to save his brother from embarrassment, Kit agrees to impersonate him.He scrapes through the meeting and retires to the family estate to hide away until Evelyn turns up again, but the young lady’s formidable grandmother invites herself and her granddaughter to stay with them.
Thus begins one of the most awkward house parties ever, not helped by Kit and the young lady, Cressy, beginning to fall in love.Of course Evelyn eventually turns up again, having fallen in love himself, and the brothers have to dream up some ingenious way to swap back their identities and pair up with their chosen ladies, without creating a scandal.
This was amazing! I did not think I was going to like this one much, but it was done superbly.
Let's say, it isn't the thrilling story like (for example) in Devil's Cub or Cotillion (and in many other Heyer's novels).When I think of this book as a funny book I give 4 stars.
In other Heyer's book we can read that someone has or had one (or many) mistresses, but in this novel it looks like almost everybody has one (sons, fathers, grandfathers).
I couldn't stop thinking that maybe Heyer tried to remind us that the sweet Regency times aren't so sweet as we want to believe.3) we see here the real sides of some marriages and so called everlasting love.'My father—years older than she was!—fancied himself to be inlove with her!
Love is not the reason for the marriage-proposal; Evelyn needs to marry to prove to his uncle that he is settled down enough to be put in charge of the inheritance that should have come along with his succession to the title of Earl of Denville.
He is successful with that on the night of the dinner, but the following day Evelyn still has not shown up, and Kit knows that he’ll never to able to maintain the masquerade in town, so he decides to repair to the estate in Sussex, but – you guessed it – Cressy’s grandmama decides on the perfect idea of having the two of them come for a visit so that Cressy & Evelyn can get better acquainted.
This is one of those Heyer novels I remember being disappointed in, my first run through.
I just finished reading it again, and I see now why it didn't rate high amongst the list of glittering Heyer works- it was boring!
However, I must give credit to the more mature plot.
Having Evelyn play least-in-sight until the end of the novel was poorly contrived, I think.
More twin hi-jinx would have been deeply appreciated and would have enlivened the plot.
In the end, the resolution seemed a hurried, patched up thing that was not at all satisfying.
Better than I remembered it, but not at all my favorite.
The couple in this, Kit and Cressy, were likeable enough, but this was definitely not one of Heyer's better efforts.
Part of it was Heyer's innate snobbishness shining through; but most of it was this sense of an authorial intention that we should find amusing and likeable a woman so shallow and wasteful.
More than that, that we should find amusing and likeable a woman who has raised two sons who think that it is in her best interests that she not only continue to be shallow and wasteful, but that she neither face up to the consequences of her actions, nor fully understand what they are.
The plot was even thinner than usual this time, but it really didn't matter.
The characters were so charming that the plot was really just an excuse to show them off.
It's a twin masquerade plot- one doesn't show up to be presented to his potential fiancee's family, the other one has to take his place..
The usual cast of great supporting characters and dialogue is present and sparkling (the mother of the hero, Lady Denville, is a particular favorite of mine), even if we have seen some of them before in other novels under different names.
Mistaken identity is one of the best engines for comedies of manners.This novel is at its best when the masquerade happens, but beforehand and afterward, there are conversations that go on for upwards of thirty pages and more--as if Heyer had lost her sense of timing that is so tight in her earlier books, and got complacent. Many love this one, but I can't reread it without heavy skimming; the heroes are more like the younger brothers of some of the other novels, and the heroine one of the plain but kind heroines, without much spark.
My 27th Georgette HeyerHaving been obliged to impersonate his twin brother to save the betrothal, Kit discovers he likes his brother's fiance too much and there is a huge debt in the family. There were interesting moments bought about by the reckless Lady Denville, both Cressy and Kit are a cute couple, but the story just didn't live up to it's very interesting premise. This is a quieter book and maybe I was expecting something more dramatic, but I needed more.
I adore Kester and Eve and their mother and the heroine and her grandma. The plot is good.funny.lol moments galore.
There’s obviously a lot of scope for embarrassment in a book which features twin protagonists who pretend to be one another, and the muddle they get themselves into when they do this as adults in order to cover for each other.
Or, really, Kit covers for his brother who is mostly absent, and really doesn’t deserve such devotion.It’s generally charming, particularly the bond between Kit and his mother.
There were also some cringy lines that read unpleasantly for the modern reader, but there’s also a lot of fun — the whole relationship between Amabel and Ripple, for instance.It all works out fairly predictably and easily, but it’s fun while it lasts and I didn’t get too embarrassed on everyone’s behalves, which was a plus.
This is a complicated but interesting story. It is not a fast read. To start with the type was small in this edition. Then, there are a lot of characters on stage and off that to be remembered. I finally got the hang of it, but did find it hard to keep up with Godmother and Grandmother. (I was reading too fast!) Along with the adventure with the aristocracy there is a mystery hanging in the back ground. I did find myself skipping over some of the description of the garden and landscape. Always recommend Georgette Heyer books.
Kit, a diplomatic secretary in Vienna, is the rational younger twin to Evelyn, the impulsive and rakish Earl of Denville.
What is even worse, Evelyn offered a marriage of convenience to Cressy, the daughter of Lord Stavely, and tomorrow is the dinner party in Evelyn’s honor at his betrothed’s home.
Evelyn needs this marriage to untangle the complicated financial knot his mother, the lovely and irresponsible Lady Denville, tied around her charming neck.
To salvage the situation, Lady Denville persuades her younger son to impersonate his twin.
Instead, another three-dimensional female protagonist arises, as the story progresses: the twins’ mother, Lady Denville.
When the Earl of Denville still hasn’t returned on the night before he is set to meet his fiancee’s extended (and formidable) family, his mother and twin brother are forced into a ludicrous plan.
Kit will impersonate his identical twin until the Earl returns.The meeting is successful and even Cressy, the Earl’s fiancee, is won over by Kit’s manners and charm.
Kit may not be my favorite Heyer hero, but he is intelligent, agreeable, and kind.
Not my favorite Heyer by any means, but a lovely read nevertheless.
There, he finds that his brother Evelyn has disappeared, and no one has seen him for a week.
Kit goes to one dinner party, then spends the rest of the book walking through gardens with Cressy and bantering with his coquettish mother.
His relationship with Cressy is resolved about half-way through the book, and the mystery of Evelyn's disappearance turns out to be pretty banal.
And there isn't much interplay between the lovers--Cressy and Kit's relationship feels real, but also develops into full-blown "let's get married" in a matter of days, and without much dialog betweeen them.
This book has all of Heyer's trademarks - witty dialogue, likable characters and plenty of confusion.
Unfortunately, this particular book is so loaded with slang dialogue, especially at the beginning, that it was tough to get into.
But less of the lingo would have made it a 5 star book.NB - I later revisited this book in audio format and LOVED it!
I did notice that the humor shows up more in the last half of the book, but I didn't mind because the first half gives us a lot of time with Kit and Cressie together.
And Cressie has become one of y favorite heroines.
