https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948247.Stories_from_the_Twilight_Zone
the Twilight Zone.Stories from the Twilight Zone is a collection of six Twilight Zone episodes, The Mighty Casey, Escape Clause, Walking Distance, The Fever, Where is Everybody, and The Monsters are Due on Maple Street, adapted into short stories by Rod Serling.
I think it's cool that most of the opening and closing narration was included with the stories.Also included in the book is an introduction by Anne Serling, talking about her father and giving a little history behind each of the episodes.
Any fan of horror or sci-fi or even just the nostalgia of the 20th century will appreciate and love all the stories in this book; The Twilight Zone's best episodes are chronicled here in story format that not only reflects excellent writing, but also the culture and visions of the times.*On a side note, it's very sad that Rod Serling died, he was a wonderful narrator and brilliant writer. :(
It's interesting to see how removing the need to please sponsors and network legal departments gives enough freedom to strengthen some of these short story adaptations of familiar episodes.The language can be more realistic, the damage caused by individual's actions can be more explicit...and interestingly, brand names can be used freely.I would be giving the book five stars, because the stories absolutely hold up and hold your interest...if not for a couple of major problems with this edition.The first, and strangest thing, is that they group all of the introductions to the stories in the beginning of the book, rather than having them appear before each of the stories.
Rod Serling of course was one of the talented writers who churned out some very good short stories for Twilight Zone episodes.
my favorite stories were," Walking Distance." Where a thirty something man misses the the town he grew up in.
I also liked" Where is everybody?" a lone man ends up in a town where he is by himself and it appears that everyone has disappeared.
I have seen all of these short stories on Twilight zone.{ we own the whole series} most good to great episodes.
a very good book of short stories from the talented Rod Serling.
A solid prose retelling of several creepy, hilarious & poignant tales from this most classic of television series. This short story collection fired my imagination and stoked my literary passions...feelings all good books should aspire to ignite.
Really enjoyed this book, essentially the source material for many of the episodes. Serling can definitely write! The descriptors he chose sometimes actually made me chuckle out loud. They were very vivid and it really enhanced my reading of these works. As with any collection, some are stronger than others but overall I enjoyed this immensely. It gave some details that were either left out or not obvious from the episodes. Highly recommended for any fan of the series.
Rod Serling created The Twilight Zone &, later, re-wrote some of the episodes in prose form, which is how this book came to be!
I thought these six stories were simple, kind of boring, stories that probably played better to early TV audiences than to someone reading them more than 50 years later.
I feel like it would touch a lot of people for the same reason… I imagine that most of us have looked at our lives at some point & thought, “I wish I could be a kid again.” The social implications are pretty obvious for this story: We can never go back.
Excellent. Some stories a little heavy-handed - but that's just part of what's become the Sterling Charm. And if you've seen most of the episodes, you've probably seen these. But the best one - better as a story, I think - was "Walking Distance" and "Where is Everybody?"
Sooooooooooooooo goooooooooooooooooood :D!!! An imagination and story telling like no other. This book and collection is truly timeless :D :D
Just good stuff. That is all there is to it. Serling was the MAN.
Rod Serling's Twilight Zone is my favourite TV series.
For some bizarre reason I put off reading his prose, perhaps I feared disappointment in a writer I have huge respect for, or was it that I thought having seen every episode numerous times there was nothing new to be said.
Serling is a superb, snappy prose writer, and even though all six of the stories are based on episodes, it felt completely fresh, not like I was reading a script.There isn't one dud story here.
Una gran selección de historias representativas de la serie, un lenguaje sencillo que permite una fácil y divertida lectura, historias variopintas que dejan un mensaje, totalmente para fans de The Twilight Zone, solo un detalle, el índice no es correcto en el sentido de que la numeración de las hojas está mal, pero quitando ese detalle es casi perfecto, espero poder leer los otros dos tomos pronto, aún insisto en el efecto Mandela y que hasta hace un par de semanas era "Sterling" y no "Serling" el nombre del autor, cosas raras del multiverso.

Rod Serling is an amazing story teller. His tales mix for me a sense of nostalgia and curiosity. These six tales are only a few of his beautiful tales but still amazing. The edition I am reading still has the 50 cents price and the mail in order form which I wish I could still use. I've never had the pleasure of using one but I can imagine the sense of wonder it exalts.
I love the Twilight Zone and I don't remember seeing all but one of the episodes captured here, so I enjoyed it very much. The one I had seen--Monsters Are Due on Maple Street--is an all-time classic and has new relevence these days. As for the other stories, I thought Where is Everybody? was also exceptional, and the others were all very entertaining. Looking forward to getting volume two.
Let me just say, "I'm a big Rod Serling fan!" I've watched most of the episodes based on the stories in this book. If you're not familiar with Serling's writing style, you may want to give this book a whirl! I gave it 4.5 stars!
I thought at this was amazing! I am a Twilight Zone fan and have seen and own the stories that were in the book! It was amazing watching them, but it was even more amazing reading them and getting the story in between. I think any one that love The Twilight Zone will love reading this book!
4.5 I really enjoyed this, very creepy.
It's Rod Serling...of course it was good.
A fantastic series just like the tv showThis was an amazing book .It was just like the tv show.I loved these stories especially the monsters are due on Maple street .
I love Rod Serling, not only does his stories have a creepy feel, but comes with morals as well.
Really good but I think two stories borrowed heavily from Bradbury.
The stories were ok, but often a little boring. This might be because we have a different idea of horror nowadays. I especially enjoyed The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street because in its simplicity it is really scary. Maybe human nature is the true horror...
Yes, although I’ve seen the episodes from The Twilight Zone which were adapted into short stories for this anthology (we usually see the media adaptation flow going the other way), I very much enjoyed experiencing them in a new medium.
I hope that doesn’t spoil the story for anyone who hasn’t read it or seen the television episode.
The beauty of these narrative versions of the television episodes is that each story ends with a transcript of the voice-over epilogue for each episode.
“The tools of conquest do not necessarily come with bombs and explosions and fall-out.
After stopping at a gas station along the way, Martin notices that the town is within "Walking Distance." He decides to let the gas station attendant work on his car while he finishes the rest of his journey on foot, but what he finds on the streets of his childhood is much more than nostalgia...As a religious man of high moral standards and a precisely arranged life, Franklin Gibbs becomes quite annoyed when his timid wife wins an all-expenses-paid vacation to Las Vegas, the capital city of vice and sin.
He is an engrossing writer, fashioning strange and suspenseful tales that hook you in with their curious descriptions, unusual characters, and bizarre situations.While the TV episodes accomplish their dramatic and storytelling goals very effectively for the medium, these short stories give us a slightly different perspective.
This technique sheds new light on these tales, which include: “The Mighty Casey”: an interesting fable dealing with questions of morality and empathy, examined through the prism of an unusually talented and rather mysterious baseball pitcher.
Rod Serling is still The Man as far as I'm concerned, but somehow I didn't love several of these stories the way I did when I was a 12 or 13 year old horror, sci-fi, and monster movie geek.
But Serling's vivid imagination and artistic vision still carry the day for most of the tales in this book, a compilation of the three Twilight Zone paperbacks that Bantam produced during the show's heyday in the early 60s; chief among them are the great end-of-the-world scenario of "The Midnight Sun," the still-powerful political allegory of "The Monsters are Due on Maple Street," and the just plain ol' Sci-fi fun of stuff like "The Odyssey of Flight 33." The intro from T.E.D. Klein (who is also The Man as far as I'm concerned) is a bonus.
These are all adaptations of Twilight Zone episodes that were broadcast in 1959.
Each one has a transcript of Rod Serling's voice-over at the end of the story.
There is nothing really profound about any of the stories.
They are really just light entertainment and might be considered a bit of fluff.
However, they are still entertaining.
Reading them was a real nostalgia trip for me.
It has, nevertheless, been many years since I have seen them.
While reading them I actually remembered them and I remembered them with pleasure.
I just might look around for the other Twilight Zone books.
I really enjoy The Twilight Zone--there's just something so economic in the storytelling that appeals to me.
Serling's stories do paint a deeper picture, but I'm not sure any of these stories were better than the original shows.
We're not talking about great literature here, but Serling does a good job at taking something familiar to the reader and giving it a little dose of weird.
If you are familiar with the iconic Twilight Zone episodes covered by these stories, I would suggest at perhaps taking a looking at one of the other collections.
The Twilight Zone: Complete Stories is a hardcover collector’s edition containing three smaller paperback volumes totaling 19 short stories written by Rod Serling. These 19 short stories are actual episodes of the iconic television series. This review takes a look at the first installment, 1960’s Stories From The Twilight Zone. All six of these short stories appeared as episodes in the inaugural season. I’ve included the episode numbers, original air date, and a synopsis along with review notes of the individual story...To read the rest of this review go to https://drewmartinwrites.wordpress.co...
