https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371691.The_Book_of_Happiness
I liked it. Unfortunately by the time I got used to its rhythm, it ended. The part that speaks about Sankt Petersburg is very warm and white, the part that describes Paris reminded me of "Bleu", Kieslowski’s film – the young alienated woman etc.
The Book of Happiness, although apparently written in the 1990s, at the end of Berberova’s long life, reads like a modernist novel of the early 20th century.
Here, from the very beginning, Berberova explicitly invokes cinematic techniques: “Through the window [of her dead friend’s hotel room:] she could see the Place de l’Opéra and the beginning of the Boulevard des Capucines, as if someone had started some director’s old film running on the screen of the window.” Gazing at Sam’s dead body, Vera muses that “It was like trying to lay a negative over a printed photograph so that they coincided.” In his last letter, Sam wrote, “I’m bored.
Part II accounts for the love story (if it is one) between Vera and Alexander and the first years of Vera’s life as a Russian émigré in Paris.
Love and its demands, and its ever changing face at different times in our lives, is the theme of Nina Berberova’s novel The Book of Happiness. Berberova’s novel is set in the early part of the Twentieth Century, a time that has seen Love subjected to the historical — and human individual crushing -- forces of war, politics, and revolution. However, Berberova is willing to see Love’s possibilities -- as long as Love is stripped free of illusion. For Love to exist, it must maintain a balance bet
Love and its demands, and its ever changing face at different times in our lives, is the theme of Nina Berberova’s novel The Book of Happiness.
As she watches the coaches depart, Vera now senses a new life beginning, but she also senses a kind of death:And now the second and behind it the third carriage set out in the downpour to the Nikolayevsky Station.
Eventually, there is a pathetic attempt at murder by Karelov’s wife, which Vera submits to in an almost Christ-like way.
Karelov licked a corner of the envelope and stuck the stamp on.
She had always been uncertain whether to wet her finger or take the gluey stamp in her mouth.
And suddenly it all turned out to be so simple: you just had to lick the envelope.
She stood there with her mouth open and watched him drop the letter in the mailbox.Okay, so this is moot now that (a) no one sends snail mail any more and (b) even if one did send a letter, stamps are made like stickers now, BUT: was I a big asshole for licking the back of the stamp itself?
I have NEVER ONCE seen anyone lick the envelope.
The storytelling is soft and sensitive, mainly composed of Vera's rememberings in the first two parts after she learns of her childhood's friend untimely death, and a third part in the present.
There is something about Vera, though you do not notice straight away, she is an innocent and rather immature character, who easily gets disoriented and carried away, and because her sense of sympathy is so great, she easily gets impressed and manipulated by others.
Nevertheless, she gives, she takes, and relies on those moments of eternal present where she feels her gentle unity and acceptance of all things (happiness).
The Book of Happiness?
More like the book of crap.
The timeline made no sense.
I'm told by a reviewer that this story is supposed to be about the perseverance of happiness.
So Russia falls, Vera marries a man she doesn't love who treats her like crap and then dies.
She lets her widowed sister-in-law walk all over her, her childhood friend commits suicide, and then she "finds happiness" with a married man, which is just fine because his wife is mentally disturbed (and tries to kill Vera) and their daughter died.
What happiness.
Hated this book.
Hated it.
Nah, nada remarcable. Por lo menos no lo abandoné.Lo cogí porque era una escritora rusa medianamente contempóranea (características totalmente ausentes de mis escritores hasta la fecha) pero no salió buena. Tiene algunos destellos chéveres sobre su adolescencia en San Petesburgo durante los años Soviéticos pero son muy poco del libro para mejorarle todo.Lo que menos me gustó fue el final rosa absoluto. Odio cuando las historias terminan en que las mujeres finalmente encuentran la felicidad enamorándose y quedándo embarazadas. Tedio.
"The Book of Happiness" is about the young life of a Russian woman named Vera who after receiving news of the suicide of her only childhood friend Sam, attends.
This is Vera's journey - told in 3 parts with a series of short chapters - where she pursues happiness, determined to burst forth from the unfulfilled past through life, love, and liberty.*** SPOILER ALERT - STOP READING IF YOU PLAN TO READ THIS ***All right, chaps and lasses.
In Part III of "The Book of Happiness", she recalls childhood moments with Sam, which gives her great joy.
The Book of Happiness by Nina BerberovaPerhaps the reason I did not like this book is that the book starts with a suicide and with my new “philosophy” I try to be positive.
In the last ten years I have tried to concentrate on and read the best books, from lists made up by critics.
I was taken aback by The Science of Happiness and I guess that after reading it, any book would have a hard time pleasing me.The second reason I started Nina Berberova’s book was that I had read two books by her, on Nabokov and The Resurrection of Mozart, which I enjoyed.
found this on the table at the strand.
hooked by the opening, mesmerized by the rest.
the story of a russian ex-pat and the three loves of her life: 1) a childhood neighbor in st.
petersberg; 2) a sickly man with whom she moves to paris; 3) another russian ex-pat in paris.
told in a simple, intense, musical, oblique, emotionally impressionistic voice.
kind of reminded me of a cross between ondaatje, james salter, chekhov and tatiana tolstoya.
it's exactly what reading her story is like.
The Book of Happiness is closely related to Berberova's three great love affairs, and set in Russia and Paris around WWI.
Her sense of humor is so natural, so unpredictable, the smallest interaction feels like the kind of flirtation that would make you fall straight in love with a person.
She writes like someone who knows how to make herself laugh, which is what you want, of course, from someone writing about Happiness.
The story is not all light by any means, but her sense of happiness is deep, it's earned, and she makes a strong case for its worthiness as life's central pursuit.
[Y]ou simply have no inkling of how to live any other way. Others will come later, after you, and they will have a completely new way of feeling. Which means there is no experience. Each person starts all over from the beginning.
If I had to describe the book in a nutshell, I'd say it's about a life-long coming of age as a woman, and about the subtle struggle of learning to be gradually more and more comfortable in your own skin. All set in beautiful Russia, so that's a pet peeve which also contributed to me liking it.
Beautifully written in an easy to read style.
Zaista mala knjizica o sreci.
Cum poate o persoana sa traiasca dupa ce a pierdut oameni esentiali ai vietii ei. Si cum poate sa traiasca bazandu-se pe constructia afectiva pe care ea a operat-o in viata.
One of my favorite authors.
