https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17571564-hyperbole-and-a-half
I absolutely loved it, and I know I'll visit this book again and again. My only sad: the alot does not make an appearance. SO I DEMAND A SEQUEL! I DEMAND IT ALOT!
My assistant introduced me to this book, and I immediately fell in love. Oh Allie Brosh, where have you been all my life? Oh. You were on the internet. And apparently all the cool kids have known about you for ages. Here's a link to her website just in case you've been living under a rock like me: http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/Go and read some. You can thank me later.
along withLet's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir, this is a book that finally understands what it's going to take to make me laugh.
i know i have said in other reviews of internet-sensations-turned-book that i was glad to learn of the blog or site or whatever through the book, but i never actually visited them after my revelation, even if i really enjoyed the book.
for those of you who know me and my allergy to "doing new things" or even "doing things like normal, modern people do" like owning a cellphone, this is going to blow your minds.
i am going to "follow" a blog, as the kids say.
I loved this! It consistently had me laughing so hard I was almost crying. I've been a huge fan of Allie's blog for years, and really the only reason I didn't give this 5 stars is because I'd already read quite a few of the "chapters". I still really recommend this though, both to those who are new to Allie's work and those already following her. It's wonderful!
I don't think I've seen a book that most of my friends agree on as much as this one.
You would have to be a turd to not love this book.
Allie Brosh is most awesome.
We would have fun and eat cake together.
I'll bring the alcohol.Now to the book.So much fun..if you haven't checked out her blog you just need to stop what you are doing and go there.
This book is colorful and fun..it's way heavy though.
I think the difference in types of paper and all the ink made it heavier than a normal book.
:) On a serious note, I loved Allie Brosh's funny, honest, and charming account of her life through the artwork and narration in "Hyperbole and a Half." This book is a compilation of several stories Brosh has told on her blog of the same name, compiled in this book, along with some stories I'll admit I haven't seen before.
That true story was hilarious.)If there were a single quibble that I would have about the collection in general - I think the ARC could've done with maybe a bit of background info on Allie as well as a TOC showing the order of the tales that were included in the narrative.
“Desperation breeds ingenuity”   It was definitely a witty, funny read, many times it was so hilarious, often, twisted and yet, still very relatable. It was also sometimes sad but very genuine. Just salute to the author for simply admitting the lousiest things that sometimes come across our human’s unpredictable, messed up heads. The drawings are hilarious and I completely enjoyed the fun read. I know this is not much so do check out my friends' reviews: Shelby'sTamara'sPinky's
Felt a bit disjointed, which is precisely why I dock it 1 star.
Otherwise, this was immensely inriguing, like watching people going about their lives.
:)Q:But I keep allowing it to happen because, to me, the future doesn’t seem real.
(c)Q:I had so very few feelings, and everyone else had so many, and it felt like they were having all of them in front of me at once.
I didn’t really know what to do, so I agreed to see a doctor so that everyone would stop having all of their feelings at me.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/How many stars do I give this one???? Some things I figured out while reading Hyperbole and a Half: Whooops, sorry – got distracted. Okay, where was I? Oh yeah, stuff I learned. I think there’s a good chance I adopted clones of Allie Brosh’s dogs . . . my anti-social behavior is 100% A-Okay . . .  cake IS a fucking food group and no one is going to tell me otherwise . . .  geese are dangerous psychopaths that become extremely violent f
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/How many stars do I give this one????
Some things I figured out while reading Hyperbole and a Half:
Whooops, sorry – got distracted.
Okay, where was I?
I think there’s a good chance I adopted clones of Allie Brosh’s dogs .
my anti-social behavior is 100% A-Okay .
and finally, my priorities in life lead me to believe there’s a good chance I’m really a 10-year old.
. In the world of blog-to-book authors, Allie Brosh takes the grand prize (sorry Jenny Lawson – I still love you, just not as much).
A true comedian doesn’t need shock value, because she knows that mundane daily life is filled with comedic potential and she conjures it all up with (somehow) a masterful sense of timing.
One of my favorite sketches is one in which the author describes how pitifully dumb her dog is, and yet she couples this narrative to a series of drawings that show how lovingly she considers him.
Another sketch details her descent into and subsequent recovery from episodes of severe depression and it is an amazing thing to be treated to such remarkable insight alongside a healthy dose of wild laughter.All in all, I think you’ll find that this book is a real winner.
But I'm tired of navel-gazing blogs turned into books - this one reminded me over and over again of Jen Lancaster - both Brosh and Lancaster, for instance, tell stories of their unloveable dogs that I suppose are intended to make us love the wild rascals or admire their owners for putting up with their bad behavior but only leave me cold and disgusted.
While Lancaster writes with self-deprecating humor in an effort to diffuse her petty behavior, Brosh analyzes (and analyzes) how she compensates for her shittiness by lying to herself and consoling herself with delusions about how great she is.
This book (which is a collection of her blog posts) is Allie's way of fighting back.
Her main weapons are the courage to lay bare the innermost workings of her soul, and deliciously dark humour.On the surface, it is not different many other memoirs: the author writes of her childhood and her day-to-day life in satirical vein, exaggerating her failures and the flaws in her personality to draw a laugh.
The pictures are purposefully crudely drawn, like the way a kid would draw - however, there is a pattern to this crudeness, a method in this madness.
Despite her strange little drawings, particularly a self-portrait that looks something like a marine tube worm, she reaches some profound truths in the course of her book.
Part graphic novel, part autobiography, she manages to both amuse and discomfort the reader in the best of ways.
Though she presents herself as a person struggling with severe depression issues in a number of the stories, she touches on human truths most of us experience.Hyperbole and a Half originates from her wildly popular blog of the same name (link to her site).
Subjects range from childhood experiences to struggles with her dogs to self-identity and depression.
Allie Brosh = infinity starsHyperbole blog = six starsMy regrets for buying this book = ZEROThe actual book = *whispers* eh, it was good.
But good.Reasons = No alotsPictures depicting nighttime in a dark forest should not have gray writing on themThe new content that wasn't on the blog was a bit hit or miss for me.
Seemed like fillers.Bonus star = lush full color that gave me a slight high from the sheer volume of ink (also the smell totally repelled the pungent and persistent aroma of that Etsy-purchased leather bag I thought was coming from New York, but was shipped from Morocco, which I strongly suspect is made of dead camel, and is too heavy for me to carry).
I kept thinking, maybe I should leave Karen's apartment, and not just sit on her bed and pet her cat for a while longer, but I'll just read one more story, and that one story led to one more, and one more and then I was all done with the book thanks to the humorous crack like quality of the book.
In the past six months I'm fairly certain that I have purchased 7 books, two of which I have read and one which I reviewed (favorably).
I finally know where this meme originated from. From Allie Brosh and her fabulous, fabulous book.Hyperbole and a Half is the perfect novel to read on a rainy day because it's unbelievably funny. It consists of random incidents and observations in Allie's life, ranging from toddler cake consumption: “I had tasted cake and there was no going back. My tiny body had morphed into a writhing mass of pure tenacity encased in a layer of desperation. I would eat all of the cake or I would evaporate from
From Allie Brosh and her fabulous, fabulous book.Hyperbole and a Half is the perfect novel to read on a rainy day because it's unbelievably funny.
It consists of random incidents and observations in Allie's life, ranging from toddler cake consumption:
“I had tasted cake and there was no going back.
I would eat all of the cake or I would evaporate from the sheer power of my desire to eat it.”
"As soon as you became aware that eating huge amounts of salt is really, really uncomfortably salty, you should have stopped eating salt.
That's the solution.
The solution is not to begin eating pepper to cancel out the salt."
This is the type of book that's not merely amusing or funny in the way of smart satire.
My husband banned me from reading this book at night because my hysterics woke him up, and I got a lecture about REM cycles and proper adult bedtimes (incidentally, my husband is a fully-functioning grown up and not the target audience for this book).
Despite the author's questionable life choice to be a dog person, I felt like I could relate to everything in this book.
Like, hey, I'm not alone.
Being a superstar adult is not for everyone, and whether or not it was the author's intentions, I feel a little better about it after reading this book.
May 18, 14Will I ever find something like this book, again?!***Jan 05, 14This is kind of how I look right now while writing these modest thoughts.Do you see that smile?
I know I couldn't vote because I haven't read a single one of those new books, but I'm trying to keep up.
Even though next year I'm guessing it will be the same thing and I'll be reading those new books after the whole event is over.)I love mixing genres.
I love humor and I'm so glad I find books like this one, once in a while.
I loved this book.
A book club friend loaned this to me.
I am very familiar with Hyperbole and a Half, have even been known to use an image or two from it as profile pictures (especially the cell from the social entrapment post that says "I'd love to hang out but I have to go sit in my house by myself.") So, already a huge fan, love simple dog, and enjoyed reading this.
I'd been a bit bogged down in depressing (yet award-nominated) books and also had spent four days in training this week, so this was a welcome respite.
Somehow I had never met Helper Dog and loved his crazy presence.
Allie Brosh writes the popular blog Hyperbole and a Half, and this is a collection of her favorite web comics and a few new ones.
I was happy to see this comic included in the book.* Besides the Adult chapter, some of my favorite pieces were about Allie trying to train her dog, her early obsession with cake, a hilarious and terrifying attack by a goose, and some letters she writes to her younger self.
I highly recommend the book to anyone who wants a good laugh.*For your reading enjoyment, here is a link to her post about trying to be an adult: http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com...
4.5 starsLoved this! I thought it was hilarious and I was laughing out loud at some chapters! I think my favorite was the chapter about the Simple Dog or when she was writing to her 25 year old self.. "Do you still like dogs? What is your favorite dog?" Haha Apparently this author has a blog so I'm going to have to check that out for sure! Some of this was pretty relatable actually... I did enjoy the deeper parts as well. Overall definitely light and fun and I recommend it if you're in the mood for something like that!
This book was HILARIOUS, but also deep at times which I really appreciated. It was a nice balance.
The entries about Allie's life - rendered as cartoon drawings with captions and anecdotes - are funny, relatable, and touching.The book opens with a letter Allie wrote to her future self when whe was ten.
Examples of what these two dogs get up to are hilarious.Another very entertaining chapter is about little Allie - aged 4 - obsessively stalking her grandfather's birthday cake.
Allie's parents view the youngster's ability to eat hot food as a talent.....to be trotted out for friends and relatives.
Allie Brosh knows more about dogs more than Cesar Millan.
She just doesn't know what to DO about dogs.The stories about Brosh's dogs are fall-down funny.
If you are a dog lover, you will find them HILARIOUS.Other tales, particularly about depression and some seriously questionable lapses in parental judgement are not so much funny as sad and scary.
(view spoiler)[I was honestly squirming as I read about Mom & kids lost in the woods and Dad entering Allie in a hot sauce eating contest.
(hide spoiler)]But, if the next book has more about dogs...I'll probably buy it.
Because...you know...dogs!
Allie Brosh of the Hyperbole and a Half blog = my longtime girl crush!
She's irreverently funny and just so incredibly genuine.
Readers of her blog will recognise some of the stories in this.
(I'll confess to missing the Alot one just because it was what introduced me to her in the first place, but I'm so glad the depression and simple dog ones made it in.)ANYWAY.
Never fear!(Content removed because Touchstone didn't want me using unauthorised content from Allie's site.
But hey, if you want to know what said content could be, go read the book ;))
This week, I am sharing it with "my" high-school seniors and I cannot wait.When the dedication in the front of a book elicits a guffaw, it is a sure sign that the following memoir is going to be hilarious.
Amid the gaiety, however, Ms. Brosh cleverly hides in wait.
Like so many of us, Ms. Brosh suffered with depression.
The reader is no longer giggling with a self-proclaimed sloth, but recognizing the downer of depression creeping in.This is a book that I will continue to go back to, for encouragement, laughter and hope.
It is also a tome that I will be sharing often.
Eating bees is sort of its own consequence. What more do I need to say?Well, unfortunately I do need to say more because I am not a talented artist-blogger (I think I made that word up) who can speak through crude drawings and witty narrative. I loved the familiar cadence of her writing and I was beyond impressed with how much could be conveyed through these "simple" drawings. This book is often laugh-out-loud funny and occasionally painfully sad. The depictions of depression seem honest and re
What more do I need to say?Well, unfortunately I do need to say more because I am not a talented artist-blogger (I think I made that word up) who can speak through crude drawings and witty narrative.
I loved the familiar cadence of her writing and I was beyond impressed with how much could be conveyed through these "simple" drawings.
This book is often laugh-out-loud funny and occasionally painfully sad.
Another book born of a popular blog, this felt a little unbalanced to me because I personally struggled with shifting from hilarious one moment to dark the next...though this is a blog collection and I can't rightly expect it to flow.
This is a non-fiction memoir from Brosh which consists of funny stories paired with even funnier illustrations.
For me the illustrations in this book made it a 4 star read.
I think if I had simply read the words and not seen the images I wouldn’t of found it anywhere near as funny as I did.
As well as the comical stories Brosh also brings us an interesting perspective on mental health.
She suffers with depression and anxiety and illustrates her experience of this within the pages of this book – it was brilliantly done.
Sometimes when people tell me they are depressed I have to manage my mouth and work really hard not to do the slow eye roll.I tamp down on the urge to school them on the distinction between feeling blue or out of sorts and the utter scourge that is depression. That is why I GIVE ALL THE STARS to Allie Brosh. She knows the distinction. And she made me laugh, snort, cry, and snot. Listen to this interview for more ::http://www.npr.org/2013/11/12/2447581...
Fucking hilarious and true. And hilarious.
