https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1387938.The_Trembling_Hills
I wanted to finish this in one sitting. It was that good. What I enjoyed about the story the most, was how Whitney tied the San Francisco fire into the narrative.Also, I am a bit of a sucker for Gothic novels.
This one was just all right - the suspense/gothic part of the book is very limited and only really appears at the very end of the book. I liked the main character, and the setting - during the 1906 earthquake & fire, was interesting, but the actual gothic part of "gothic romance" was seriously lacking.This cover is awesomesauce, though.
I set the scene about character tested in the most epic manner possible.
Phyllis's classic entails: a missing Father, outcast Grandmother, and a recurring dream so strong...
it may be a real memory.Sara and her Mom join an old friend in San Francisco, USA.
All her life she has tried to solve a childhood nightmare that ends before it shows the conclusion.
Encountering her birth home in this city, she thinks she might be able to trigger the whole dream to play out.
But it is April 1906 and disaster hits!
It's at the top of Phyllis's adult work.
Another Whitney winner! Such a wonderful author, with a sense of place and atmosphere and a smooth, flowing writing style. Whitney made writing seem effortless!
I love the great Phyllis Whitney. I have read some of her books many times, this one included. Often I get tired of a genre and I just need something different to read and I grab one of her novels. This one is set in San Francisco during the 1906 earthquake and fire. Her descriptions of these events are so intense that you feel like you are there. Excellent story.
A great San Francisco Gothic romance set before and after the 1908 earthquake and fire. Her insight into the insurance industry and its role in the drama is unique. She turns The City's mood into a character. If you're into Gothic romances and/or San Francisco you should read this one.
More mystery then romance... It was the story surrounding the grandmother and what had occurred in the past. I really enjoyed it. This is my first Phyllis Whitney novel, and I will definitely read more...
This was my very first Phyllis Whitney novel and is still probably my favorite. I've always been a sucker for historical fiction. She only did a few in that genre. Most of them are contemporary romantic mysteries. Still, I believe I've read and enjoyed everything she's written.
One of the two most favorite books of Phyllis Whitney the other being The Moonflower. I read this book when in high school and have a copy still and when I want a quick read to take me back I re read this one.
More than anything else I've read, fiction or non, this made me feel the most like I was actually there for "the big one." The quake, rather than being just the backdrop, is actually a character. Odd, frightening, but a very vivid -- and, all in all-- likable book.
the book kept me wanting to come back for more. there was always something changing and leaving you hanging I loved it.
kept hoping there would have been a sequel. Once I started reading I could not put it down.
Wonderful story and great writing blend with history of San Francisco in 1906. Thought I had read all of Whitney's book years ago, but turns out, I had not.
Not at all like her other books. It was interesting though. I thought I had read this but I realized I hadn't. It's like another of her books about the Earthquake.
Thoroughly enjoyable!Set in San Francisco during the Great Quake, this is a story of how personal experiences change how we perceive our lives. Sarah is the main character who learns that prestige and having the finer things in life aren’t as important as they seemed. Nice story from beginning to end.
This was the last book that I wrote down as having read in 1969. I'm sure I readmany more books that year but I must have gotten too busy to write them down after this one.I don't remember the book but I was definitely into romantic suspense along the lines ofPhyllis Whitney, Mary Stewart and Dorothy Eden. However, looking back, my favorite of theseauthors was definitely Daphne du Maurier.
Varady moves to San Francisco, falls in love, and survives the San Francisco fire. She also learns the truth about her past that she has forgotten.It was okay, but not that memorable. I was a little worried because of the 'trashy romance' cover, but I trusted the women in my book group. It wasn't trashy - it was actually a nice story with not much romance at all.
it was good...but i don't know...i was just expecting something different when i picked the book up.
This was the book that got me hooked on Phyllis A Whitneyand the first one of hers I read it is still one of my favourites!
This is my all time favorite Phyllis Whitney book. I can't tell you how many times I've read it because it is a book I get in the mood to read nearly every fall since I was a teenager.
Phyllis Whitney is always enchanting for me. Her mysteries are not deep, but they do resonate. It kept me turning the pages and took me to another America, a new America. Very pleasant read.
not my favorite but still very good!!!!
She now decides to follow her true love, Ritchie Temple, to San Francisco.
Not only does the man she has loved since childhood live there, but her father, who left mysteriously so many years ago, came from San Francisco.
She feels certain that now she will finally fulfill her dreams of marrying Ritchie Temple and finding out what happened to her father.But Sara has another dream as well, a terrifying nightmare that has haunted her all of her life.
The answers are waiting for her, as is true love, if she just knows where to look
It was first published in 1956 and I needed it for a reading challenge and so was happy to have it so easily accessible.
Unfortunately, the poor book disintegrated as I was reading it...I'm glad it didn't turn out to be a favorite!!!
I particularly enjoyed the historic portions that talked about San Francisco at the time of the earthquake and fire that devastated the area but even that left me wanting additional information.
A little bit of paranormal, but not at all scary and the typical romantic entanglements of the time all rounded out with surprise announcements of who some folks really were and the matriarch from hell...it was OK.
I enjoyed this return to one of my favorite genres. However, I thought it could have used more suspense throughout, rather than just at the end. I thought some of the final occurrences were a little too contrived, and I'm not sure that the protagonist made reasonable choices. Glad to have read it, not the best I've read. Language, especially Ah Foong and his dialogue, a bit dated and borderline offensive.
The dated way the story is told took a bit of getting used to. But it gets more intriguing as the book progress into stuff like family alliances, live & marriage, old-world norms and mores, and even hints of chivalrousness. I love the details of fashion (the protagonist is a gifted seamstress) and the background the story is set in (early 1900 San Francisco).
A sweet story, definitely not great. The story just brushed up against the Mothers reason for never telling her daughter about her heritage, touched lightly on the daughter’s lifelong love for a young man she grew up with but lost to another. The secret her mother was so afraid of , really wasn’t so horrible.No depth to story at all.
Well, this was better than expected in that it was more nuanced and complex. Interesting look at San Francisco in the days and months after the earthquake and fire of 1906. The characters grew and matured, the scene of the story was dramatic, and the horrible dream had a plausible explanation. A good tale well told.
I started reading expecting this book to be scary and with paranormal activities. But it wasn’t and it’s fine. It’s a romance but it’s not so romantic that I can’t swallow it. So all is good. I like the way it was written and the story is really quite interesting.
Some books don't read as well the second time around, and this was one of them. The 1906 earthquake and resultant fire was still interesting, but the Gothic theme no longer succeeded for me. I found my taste has matured, but for young readers, it may still bring satisfaction.
