https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76940.The_Ghost_at_Skeleton_Rock
Yet another fun and exciting mystery in this series.
The Hardy boys, Frank and Joe, go with their friend Chet to get a Hugo ventruiliquist doll.
Soon, the criminals break into the house and steal the wrong doll that didn't have diamonds.
The Hardy's father warned them that a drug has been trending through the criminal gangs.
The clues of the criminals lead the boys and their friends to capture them.
The Hardy's travel on a boat to the gang's secret hideout on an island that the natives are scred of because of a ghost.
The Hardy's capture the crooks with their stolen drugs and free their friends.
I haven't read a Hardy Boys books in a very long time. In fact, now that I think about it, I never really read them much as a kid. I was much more a Nancy Drew girl. And upon picking one up again, I remembered why I didn't particularly care for them. These books have too much action for a couple of kids. You really flew to Puerto Rico by yourselves? And the plot was too busy with the Mexican diamond smuggling through puppets. I suppose this is a series of books that needs to remain with children.
This started off quite promisingly with a simple diamond smuggling ring using ventriloquist dummies (thanks to Chet Morton for helping with that particular plot device) but then it turned into some crazy political plot that made little to no sense. Would have been good if not for the ropy plot twist.
The Ghost at Skeleton RockBy Franklin W. Dixon Franklin W. Dixon does an amazing job on his books. He does mystery books like The Hardy Boys and wrote many more books over the years. He writes fiction books and in most of his books they seem realistic. When you read his books it feels like you are right in the story with the characters. The book was taking place in Puerto Rico and an island south of Puerto rico.In any book Franklin W. Dixon writes it makes you feel like you are right in the book
He does mystery books like The Hardy Boys and wrote many more books over the years.
When you read his books it feels like you are right in the story with the characters.
Dixon writes it makes you feel like you are right in the book.
Dixon’s books but if you want mystery read The Hardy Boys.
Everyone should feel the suspense and the action in The Hardy Boys.
I like his books because there is a lot of action and suspense in The Hardy Boys books and the books are not that long.
I liked this book because it had a lot of action and humor It all starts with a note that says, "Find Hugo purple turban." Then Frank, Joe, Chet and Frank went on this mystery that led them to an island, a mysterious ghost, and problems.
I liked how the author interrupted what a person was saying on one page, and then when I turned to the next page, the page fills with action.
One time, I was only supposed to read 15 minutes for my homework, but when I turned to the action page, I ended up reading more than that.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This title was badass. I loved it. It was a pretty intense book too. Cuban revolutions, atomic weapons... wow! Some Hardy Boys adventure alright.
Just for something fun and different, I bought this book at an antique shop.
I had never read a Hardy Boys book before.
Brothers Frank Hardy, 18, and Joe Hardy, 17, assist their father, a retired detective, and now a famous private investigator, on many of his cases.
Both boys already know how to fly a plane and speak three languages.
They find many clues and seem to be in a constant state of danger.
They appear to be like a young James Bond, in the making.
I can see why these books would have been popular with preteen boys in the 1950's and 60's.
There was so much excitement and adventure that I could barely keep up.
If I were a writer I'd make sure not just me but everyone who I think is going to read my books can understand every part of them.
I'd say the writing is more exciting than difficult.
It's able to carry on to so many different adventures and it just makes you want to keep reading and reading till you finished it.
A weakness is that I say again some of the writing is to difficult and mashed together to understand.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
Abby says: Like the other Hardy Boys books, this one was adventurous and exciting. I liked the setting of this book; it was fun to have the boys visiting the Caribbean. I thought that this book also was more violent than previous ones.
"Find Hugo purple turban." As far as creepy, barely-encoded secret messages go ("Redrum," "Elsie, prepare to meet thy God," "130 13042 13401") this one is the creepiest, due in large part to its provenance: inside of the glass eyes of a ventriloquist dummy!
Hardy Boys adventure at Skeleton rock
Dixon, Franklin W.
As a wee lad, I read nearly all of the HB books. They were typical, but I thought this one rocked, I might've read it maybe 5 or 6 times.
SM
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
i want to think and solve there mysterious cases.Actually,I'm the biggest fan of hardy boys but i don't have the complete books yet.But I LOVE HARDY BOYS STORIES!
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1994.
this book like the others are really good book's for children and adults. I recommend that you read the whole series. I am going to be reading the whole series as well.
Oh, I Wiki'd the name and it turns out it was a pen ame for not one, but many authors. They haven't even revealed who some of them are!
They are pretty good at flying.
very good, one of the better hardy boys books
read when I was 10 through 13
it was AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!! like any other Hardy Boys book!!! :) :) :) :) Mystery, adventure, action...
This book is about these two bots who are on a mission to fingd these gangs that have been causing trouble and try to find out there hid out. I like this book the mystery and scences are very good
