https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414298.Straight_Man

I thought Empire Falls was pretty brilliant but in my mind, you should have won a Pulitzer for Straight Man. I would have voted for Straight Man but damn, I'm not on the panel, but if I was, I'd vote for Straight Man.You know, I had to wait ages to read it; my library didn't have it.
You know, The Book Depository although this one is in the UK and I'm in Australia so it took a little time to deliver.
So I then had to buy the new hardback from your US of A which cost more, the postage was huge, and took another little time to deliver.
Russo's protagonist is William Henry Devereaux, Jr., the reluctant chairman of the English department of a badly underfunded college in the Pennsylvania rust belt.
He knows how to apply malapropisms to the lives of his characters in his realistic fiction.In the city of Railton, Pennsylvania, forty-nine year old William Henry Devereaux, Jr. is a rogue;An ingrate according to Teddy Barnes;Dickie Pope thinks he's insane, unprincipled and  too idealistic;"Judas Peckerwood", says Billy Quigley;"Beatnick" says Lou;"A Clever man" says his mother;"Absentminded", say the three feminists in his life: his wife Lily and his two daughters."A vague pain in the collective ass" - concludes the laissez-fair William Henry Devereaux, Jr. himself.
I remember almost nothing about Richard Russo's Straight Man. I imagine I laughed a couple of times, and I think I enjoyed the reading experience, but there is only one specific thing that I remember from the book itself.
More on that later, though, because I want to talk about the peripheral things I remember about Straight Man.I remember reading it for a Literary Theory class (my first class at my new University) with one of my all time favourite profs, Dr. W---.
3.5 stars.This had parts I found interesting, some very funny scenes, some compassionate, and some where I tuned out. Russo's humor is wry and masculine. Often jokes are made at the expense of others (students, females, academic colleagues, and academia alike are targeted), but also self-deprecating. I adore him, but will probably always compare all his works to Empire Falls, a tough one to live up to. IMO.
I have read enough of Richard Russo’s novels to become very familiar with his style of writing and storytelling.
While some level of predictability comes with this familiarity, I continue to enjoy Russo’s work.
I also enjoy his characters and find myself rooting for them despite their insistence on repeating past mistakes with predictable results.
Compared to some of Russo’s other efforts, though, I felt that I didn’t get to know the secondary characters as well as I would have liked.
Overall, a very enjoyable read highly recommended to anyone who likes Russo.
"What ails people is never simple, and William of Occam, who provided mankind with a beacon of rationality by which to view the world of physical circumstance, knew better than to apply his razor to the irrational, where entities multiply like strands of a virus under a microscope"Straight Man is the fourth novel by Pulitzer Prize-winning American novelist, Richard Russo.
He's like a tone-deaf man trying to sing, sliding between notes, tapping his foot arhythmically, hoping his exuberance will make up for not bothering to establish a key"), and loves the wife who knows him entirely too well ("Promise me you'll act surprised" is one of Lily's favourite, supposedly harmless pretences.........."It hurts my feelings to pretend to be this dumb," I tell my wife.
Anyway, Russo is so funny and satiracle and wonderful and you will love and hate the main character because he will remind you of yourself in so many ways.
It bothers me so much when people have such auper high expectations of a novel.
IT IS FICTION, people, it isn't supposed to mimic real life, the characters aren't supposed to appear super realistic.
The story is supposed to transport you to another time and place, maybe make you laugh, or cry, or get angry, but it isn't supposed to make you say, wow, that was so realistic, just like real life, just like boring, real life.
Let's see any of you write a novel.
These are the consequences with which he sculpts himself, along with a sealed isolation protecting him from those others floating about him.We must discuss the writing style of this book.
Russo writes with earnest simplicity of a story told.
I simply listened to a story teller telling me a story.Afterward I realized there were numerous gems not hidden but that I missed since I was rightfully engaged at reading on hearing-a-story-level.He is not coy.
Yet, Russo makes him, the story, endlessly fascinating while quietly embedding it in the folds of the reader's mind.
Hank is a scamp, a man who can’t seem to take anything seriously, and therefore this book is sometimes hilarious—a romp through the inane political infighting of academia from a man in the throes of a midlife crisis.Either I’m one of these people or I’m not.
. I should either throw in my lot with them, live among them, my friends and colleagues, or take my respectful leave and find out where I do belong.
Why live the life of a contortionist, scrunched in among the rafters?
I needed a laugh and this was it. A story of a disfunctional English department, a midlife crisis, and a goose, this novel made me laugh at our plight as academics. the last chapter left me hanging-the epilogue completed the story.... with a one liner. the audiobook was well done, as well.

I'm beginning to wonder if Russo is a one book man.
First, I'm getting tired of his smarter than everyone snappy mouthed wife of protagonist role that ran throughout this and Bridge.
While this book had at least more humor than Bridge it still paled tremendously against Empire Falls and aside from the one scene that inspired this recommendation (students in an English class saying things like, 'dude, it's like a metaphor')I was just annoyed at any and all the characters at any given point.
I think Russo needs to stick to his meek and earnest protagonists, he just doesn't play this part convincingly at all.
He seems to me to be useless as a husband, because he is oblivious to everything and doesn’t seem to pay attention to anything going on his personal life and a downright pain in the ass as a colleague and chair of the English department.
Most of what I disliked about this book (other than it seems to have had no point at all), revolves around the character of Hank.
Dear Committee Members is a much sharper and better written commentary on the frustrating reality of modern academia than Straight Man. I don’t recommend this book unless you enjoy reading about useless cowardly men who make lame jokes out of everything while they experience a mid-life crisis.
Second: the genre has always seemed to me like shooting fish (with PhDs) in a barrel.But now, I'm going on the academic job market this year, so I've decided some comic relief about my chosen profession might be a good thing.
I decided to start with Russo because, quite simply, I like the cut of the man's writing jib.
It's probably not cool to like Richard Russo anymore (if it ever was).
And many of his books get made into movies that your parents like.
I usually have a low tolerance for this kind of metafictional material, but again like Wonder Boys and Moo this is a rare exception, expressly because Russo takes the time and energy to put together a wonderfully entertaining, sometimes legitimately thrilling story to take place in this environment, instead of the usual endless whiny screeds about middle-aged men having affairs with their 19-year-old students.
Ironically, when I went back to The Book Barn today (looking to get rid of the darn thing), they wouldn't take it back!
But as the book progresses, the narrator comes across as more and more of a jerk--for example, some of the people in his department come to him fearing for their jobs, and all he can do is laugh.
The entire book felt "fuzzy" to me: the readers' only glimpse into the world is through the narrator, and he is so clueless it feels like being stuck in thick fog.
I mean, I know it creates a symmetry to the book, but really.
The Richard Russo books I’ve read have all taken place in decaying New York mill towns.
Straight Man varies that by taking place in a decaying Pennsylvania railroad town.
His body reacts—he can’t seem to piss, he had near-blackouts, and his nose has been ripped-open Chinatown-like by an angry colleague (a bizarre accident—she only meant to hit him in the face with a spiral-bound notebook).All of Russo’s books start slow and build.
Straight Man, being a comedy, builds more quickly and reaches a somewhat manic pace.
Russo doesn’t depart from that time-honored approach, and consequently by the end, I was reading faster and faster, unable to set it aside.
After looking over numerous reviews of this book I found the common problem the one and two star reviewers had with Straight Man was either a dislike of the main character or they didn't understand the humor.
I found that my own sense of humor is eerily similar to the main characters and was laughing consistently throughout the novel.The title refers to a straight man in a comedy.
I can easily tell you a way to determine if you will enjoy Straight Man. Read the prologue.
I have read this book at least seven times now, and I never tire of it.
In fact, fairly recently, I was loaning a copy to a friend (since I always have one on hand), and thought I'd just glance through a few favorite passages, but ended up re-reading the whole thing _again_!
I just can't get enough of this book.
Don't get me wrong: I love the other novels Russo wrote as well, like Mohawk and Nobody's Fool and the Pulitzer Prize winning Empire Falls--but Straight Man remains my all-time favorite of his.
This reading group pick is Richard Russo's fourth novel.
Is he though?He wanted to be a novelist yet only has one slim book from his younger years to his credit.
He has huge daddy issues, a detachment from his grown daughters, and a philosophical attitude toward his wife of many years.When the wife goes out of town for a week, Will's life begins to spiral downward.
In our house, the gag is that my husband of almost 39 years needs supervision.
Russo got lots of laughs out of me.
Mostly he got by on luck.The reading group members liked it and we had more laughs discussing it.
To me, there is no finer working American author than Richard Russo.
STRAIGHT MAN was published 20 years ago, but it still resonates as a very humorous and engaging work of fiction.
Russo does a serviceable job with our main protagonist, Hank Devereaux; at least in regard to our maintaining an interest in Hank's personality, musings, and adventures.
While I enjoyed the laugh-out-loud moments along with the sobering parts of STRAIGHT MAN, I'm not sure this novel is on the same level as EMPIRE FALLS or EVERYBODY'S FOOL.
Those are stories I would gladly revisit over time, but this novel feels just right with a one time read.
Well done. Parts of the second half of the book cracked me up. Russo did well to keep the story at the right length to match the story. Russo is good at simultaneously characterizing hope and despair.
Forced into the center of this debate is the reluctant interim chair, William Henry Devereaux Jr., who proudly admits that his "lack of administrative skill is legend."In a moment of ill-conceived fury he preempts the televised dedication of a new Technical Careers Center by threatening to kill one of the campus geese every day until a budget arrives on his desk.With outrageous but straight-faced retorts that endear him to us but infuriate his colleagues, Devereaux struggles to endure and even enjoy the contentious characters who despise their jobs at this third-rate university, but like the campus geese are too lazy to fly away.The author, who taught at Colby College, has assembled the usual cast of temperamental faculty and incompetent administrators that devotees of comic university novels will recognize.
Having read Empire Falls, the protagonist in this novel is more proactive, decisive and optimistic.
My only criticism is one that Russo leveled against his own protagonist: sometimes, he is a bit too much of a "clever man." I liked the leitmotif of Occam's Razor throughout the novel.
One of his best characters is, unfortunately, a woman we saw too little of in this novel -- Henry's wife, Lily.
Though not as powerful or profound as Empire Falls, the consistent wit of Straight Man makes it well worth the price of admission.
I recommend that you get Russo -- Straight Man is a keeper.
This has got to be one of the quirkiest novels I've ever read.Funniest sentence in the whole book:"It's not an easy thing to be left holding a piece of fruit during introductions."Other great lines:"I'm not a _____________, but I can play that role.""He was a small man.
So much is obvious, but beyond this I can tell you nothing except that he may have recently eaten asparagus."This is the fourth Russo book I've read, and I seem to be in the minority when I say I like his other novels a little better.
Never has a book made me feel so good about not going into academia.William "Hank" Henry Devereaux, Jr. is the embattled head of a rivalry-tastic English department in a crumbling liberal arts college.
Over the novel's four days, all heck breaks loose -- while his wife is out of town, Hank's department goes haywire, his daughter's marriage dissolves, his nose is mutilated by a coworker, he threatens to kill a goose on local television .
The characters -- particularly Hank -- were just a little too cynical for my tastes.
This is a book that may "speak" to me more when I'm middle-aged myself.
This made me laugh out loud which is something I never do when reading, even a really hilarious book. A down-at-heel college professor is bored with his job and deals with office politics and in-fighting among colleagues, it is a scream and ends on a chuckle which is hard to do.
I love Russo's writing and the way he creates memorable characters with rich lives. But, the setting of this novel makes it more relevant to me as it is a small liberal arts college with our main character, Hank Devereaux Jr., as an English professor. I was laughing at memorable conversations between the colleagues. I made note of several observations about the politics within this contentious group (it's the same in high school). I found the story meandered at times, but I liked the characters enough to stick with them. Not my favorite by this author, but a solid story.
I finished a book!!
