https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1793077.A_Modern_Comedy
The first trilogy is all about Soames and Irene, whereas the second trilogy deals with Soames' daughter Fleur and her husband, Michael Mont.
Michael Mont, idealist and do-gooder, is shown in striking contrast to the spoiled, self-centered Fleur; while Fleur's father, Soames Forsyte, represents all the caution, self-restraint and repression of the previous century.
Fleur makes all the moves, and when Jon finally kisses her back she whispers "I claim you!" She's Soames' daughter all right.
And Michael Mont, the most decent character here, a truly good man, understands that her obsession with Jon is finally over, that "a swan has sung." We know, too, that Michael will stand by his wife in this, her darkest hour.
This is put to particular with Fleur - who could be the definition of a spoiled child- and in general with the state of the UK - which still believes itself to be in the golden era when its power is in decay.I also liked how Fleur and Mont's relationship evolved, him becoming less emotionally dependent.I also had a few laughs with the book, I'll never stop saying that Soames is a great character.Swan Song 4.5/5As the title says it is Soames Forsyte's farewell.
Perhaps even more drama than in the first trilogy, but on the whole this falls lower on the scale. And of course we are continuing with the favourite message of Galsworthy's, that a woman's goodness is in inverse proportion to her force of character and ability to act and decide for herself. Here's the reason, if you like, for these books not being so popular as many other, sometimes even older classics.
Works of art are paid for and do not strike back, while people might even as they are guests in one's home.Soames won't take anyone speaking ill of, much less hurting, his beloved daughter - she is the one occupying his whole heart, a heart injured by loss of his first wife Irene and his total lack of comprehension of why he lost one he hankered after and thought he had rights to - after all he had done everything in terms of marrying her respectably and giving her all the financial security she never had had, and more - so all the more he is passionate in his taking care of his daughter while being sensitive and delicate with her, qualities he acquired perhaps due to loss of Irene with whom he was neither.So he chooses to confront rather than let go and kill by ignoring a treacherous behaviour directed at his daughter in her quest of a life of salonniere in society.
Glad to be over with the Victorian fuss & romance that fueled Volume 1. Volume 2 is so superior to all that. The modern times (just a century yesterday) resonate with our way of being. Speed, business, courts, public works, travel and... comedy-like feelings, them as well. In any case, a masterpiece.
4.5 stars
Works of art are paid for and do not strike back, while people might even as they are guests in one's home.Soames won't take anyone speaking ill of, much less hurting, his beloved daughter - she is the one occupying his whole heart, a heart injured by loss of his first wife Irene and his total lack of comprehension of why he lost one he hankered after and thought he had rights to - after all he had done everything in terms of marrying her respectably and giving her all the financial security she never had had, and more - so all the more he is passionate in his taking care of his daughter while being sensitive and delicate with her, qualities he acquired perhaps due to loss of Irene with whom he was neither.So he chooses to confront rather than let go and kill by ignoring a treacherous behaviour directed at his daughter in her quest of a life of salonniere in society.
Ya gotta hand it to Soames Forsyte - hope springs eternal that Irene, his estranged wife, will suddenly realize the error of her ways and return to him.
This second volume of the Forsyte saga finds the first generation at the end of their time and the mantle is passing to their children and grandchildren.
All this is a fascinating backdrop to the continuing story of the Forsyte family.I liked this volume even better than the first.
Galsworthy does not rehash material - his characters grow and change.
Soames Forsyte is one of the best-drawn characters I've ever encounted.Note - read this series in order.
Jon, Holly, and Val my favorite characters- Michael a dear.
Works of art are paid for and do not strike back, while people might even as they are guests in one's home.Soames won't take anyone speaking ill of, much less hurting, his beloved daughter - she is the one occupying his whole heart, a heart injured by loss of his first wife Irene and his total lack of comprehension of why he lost one he hankered after and thought he had rights to - after all he had done everything in terms of marrying her respectably and giving her all the financial security she never had had, and more - so all the more he is passionate in his taking care of his daughter while being sensitive and delicate with her, qualities he acquired perhaps due to loss of Irene with whom he was neither.So he chooses to confront rather than let go and kill by ignoring a treacherous behaviour directed at his daughter in her quest of a life of salonniere in society.

Может быть не зря ак часто теперь вспоминает слова старого Джолиона и своих родителей.Как и все остальные части, восхитительно."Серебряная ложка"В Англии говорят "родился с серебряной ложкой во рту", что означает родиться в богатой семье, с высоким социальным статусом.
И так затеялся великосветский судебный процесс, к которому все долго готовились, фактический итог которого, конечно, сложно представить заранее.Флер действительно родилась с серебряной ложкой во рту, жизнь ее ни капельки не изменила, потому что у нее вегда была двойная опора - отец и муж, котрые ее безумно любят, в идилию прекрасно вписывается ребенок.
This is a continuation of the "Forsyte saga" which follows the family members further in the XX'th century.
As the previous part distinguished several figures, often antagonist, of the "old" Forsyte family representative on the Victorian era, this work follows the same characters and their children in the next century.
With the premature death (from the novel's perspective) of Jolyon, Soames becomes the main character.
If you like this kind of slow paced family sagas, I recommend it, it is a good read by a respectable author.
I was so engrossed by the plot and the characters that I checked out all the fat volumes from the library at once and stashed them in the trunk of my car.
I wanted to be able to snap up each successive volume the very moment I had finished the previous one.
(How awful would it have been to wait for some other library patron to finish with the one I NEEDED immediately!) I recently reread the entire saga, and my pleasure was undiminished."A Modern Comedy" is quite as fine in style, quite as interesting a foray into a historic period.
prix nobel de littérature 1932fresque romanesque*Avoué, collectionneur d'art, Soames Forsyte est prospère, mais déplore de n'avoir pas d'héritier.
Séparé de sa femme, Irène, depuis des années, il rêve d'épouser Annette.Mais il faut pour cela divorcer, ce que la loi rend difficile, et surtout, Soames n'a jamais cessé d'aimer la fugitive.
Un Forsyte n'abandonne pas aisément ce qu'il considère comme son bien.Ce second volet de la célèbre Dynastie des Forsyte est complété par un récit plus court, L'Aube, consacré à l'enfance de Jon, le petit garçon qu'Irène a eu d'un autre homme.
Ainsi voit-on apparaître une nouvelle génération dans cette grande fresque de la bourgeoisie anglaise au début du siècle
This is the second volume in the lengthy saga of the Foresyte family.
The action of this volume is centered during the 1920s in England.
With skill and wit, Galsworthy paints a vivid and somewhat critical picture of the generation coming of age in England between the two Great Wars.
Galsworthy is amazingly attentive to detail; we come to know these people as if they were part of our lives.
Amazingly, over hundreds and hundreds of pages, Galsworthy maintains the integrity of each character, never confusing a voice, misappropriating a motivation or violating the integrity of any person.
Liked the second volume much better.
More in depth characterization - many of the characters are the same.
The first generation are slowly dieing, and the second generation is coming into their own, with their children coming of age.
Jolyon is reconcilled with young Jo, and he takes up a warm almost daughter-like friendship with Irene, leaving her funds in his will.
Much of this book forcuses on the difference and the rift between Jolyon/ Jo and James/ Soames.
Also it goes through the Boer War, and passing of Queen Victoria.
Still great critique on this era of time.
As John Galsworthy's followup trilogy to the marvelous "Forsyte Chronicles," "A Modern Comedy" was a fun way to catch up with the newer generation of the Forsyte family.
This second set up books (and two short stories) follows Soames' daughter Fleur, a spoiled woman who is used to getting what she wants in life, with the major exception of the love of her life.
I enjoyed the initial trilogy a bit more --I really missed the old Forsyte aunts and uncles popping in from time to time.Fleur and her husband are a little less interesting and Soames has mellowed a a bit.
Still, I enjoyed it enough that I'll read the final trilogy at some point.
It was a proper sequel, yet lacking a bit of the furor and fire of the original saga.
The one thing that I did like was that we got to know Soames and Fleur more as people rather than caricatures of villains.
Holly is a bit useless and other than Winnifred and Fleur, I have to conclude Galsworthy couldn't really write women as cleary as he did the men.
Otherwise, it was a great three books that I did enjoy reading, but they had too much to live up to in the original saga.
I think Silver Spoon may have been my favorite of this trilogy, though the ending is also kind of amazing--Soames Forsyte, struck down by his own property--his daughter and art. This series follows Fleur and her family and is somewhat less charged than The Forsyte Saga. These novels, set in the twenties in Britain, have even more terrific dialogue and slang, and raise similar questions of morality
Galsworthy is at his best in the sections of the books that deal with the challenges of romantic relationships, so I enjoyed the book about Fleur and Jon the most. (As with the first section of the Forsyte Trilogy, this actually consists of three separate books and two interludes). Soames becomes a far more sympathetic character in this series as he mellows with age and with love for his imperfect daughter.
The edition I have is actually a hardcover, no ISBN number, published in Moscow by the Foreign Languages Publishing House in 1956.With an appendix for the Russian translation of the more difficult English expressions.I am not sure if I will ever read it - although I wish to -, but it is kind of a treasure.
This is the second 3-book part of the Forsyte Chronicles. I'm enjoying the series more as I get farther into it. Even though the author seems to have written the book in order to make very un-subtle commentary about English society of the time, the characters are very well developed, very interesting, and easy to sympathize with - even those characters one would not call "good."
In this companion trilogy to THE FORSYTE SAGA (and the second of the three trilogies which comprise THE FORSYTE CHRONICLES), the younger generation of Forsytes (Fleur, Jon, Val) moves to the fore - no, they're not quite as fascinating as their parents, but enough of the original Forsytes remain on hand to keep things interesting, particularly Soames, (Young) Jolyon, Irene, and June).
There were some high and lows as I read through, but overall worth it because the bittersweet ending satisfied me.
I read these books over forty years ago and they are still among my favorites. The PBS series was excellent. Watch it if you get a chance. I know that I will go back and reread the whole series.
Many, many hours of enjoyment. Love the interludes - so poetic and so to the point.
Please see my review about The Forsyte Sage as this is the sequel to it. The best book ever.
I loved Galsworthy's description of this old Victorian family. His characters were entirely believable and the plot kept me reading.
It took me a while to get through this, but in the end it was well worth reading.
