https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154016.The_Unsung_Hero
So he forms his own force and goes after said terrorist.In reality we get a great opening scene that seems to set up an action book that moves directly into a moony Seal who has been dreaming of/over a girl from high school, "the one who got away" as it were, for 16 years.
This book is for an audience who wants a romance with a tiny bit of action thrown in for flavor.
(The kind of fantasy that sets up hundreds of bad marriages and abusive relationships by the way.) This book was a waste of my time and sadly my money.
It’s not often that I call a romantic suspense novel beautiful and moving, but that’s exactly what The Unsung Hero was.
Really, this was three separate stories weaved together into one: a second chance romance between Tom Paoletti and Kelly Ashton, a longtime friendship between two WWII veterans (Tom’s great uncle, Joe Paoletti and Kelly’s father, Charles Ashton), and a romance between Tom’s niece, Mallory and David the geek.
As the longtime grounds-keeper for Charles Ashton, Uncle Joe lives on Charles’ property in a cottage by the main house.
Tom enlists the help of some of his SEAL teammates, and even Uncle Joe and Charles join in on the mission.
Many thought of my granny as a seer, a fortune teller, even a country-raised psychologist, but to me she was the woman with the thousand stories, always new and fresh, and so very exciting, knowing that I come from a family of rebels, of brave and honorable dreamers, never mind that the results of those dreams were not always what they had hoped for....Granny had a way of telling a story, and this book, the whole thing, reminded me of her and her tales, which she would tell me every evening until she was gone...
The whole tale of these three friends was an interesting one but also an extremely morose one.The final romance, and also my favorite, was that of Tom's young niece, Mallory, and a geeky comic book artist named David who wants her to model as his latest super-hero character, Nightshade.
Her romance with David was a sweet, tender one, and although a few days isn't very long to fall in love, I came away feeling like they had as much or better chance of still being together down the road as the “main” couple did.The suspense portion of the plot involving Tom's sighting of a presumed dead terrorist and his struggle to get anyone in authority to believe him was scattered throughout the book and led to a literally explosive finale.
I enjoyed it enough to keep going back to it and wanted to know what was happening, but it wasn't my favourite.
Kelly and Tom were insufferable and I didn't particularly want them to end up together.
The secondary romance story of David and Mallory, though.
Their love story is what kept me coming back to this book.
I wish they were the focus couple instead of stupid Kelly and Tom. I didn't find this book particularly suspenseful, but I did keep coming back to read more about David and Mallory.
3 StarsThanks for the buddy read you lovely Abtastic Ab Loving Geishas!
A perfectly fine story marred by straight sex.The writing is superior. The characters seem fleshed out enough to me, the main ones anyway, but in the end I can't say I cared all that much for the entire experience. I had to skip the entirety of the Mallory/David storyline because I don't like teenagers and I'm especially prejudiced against straight ones.I won't pursue the series but only because I don't ever want to read about men sexing up women. Too depressing.
Here I was getting ready to save the world and ALL I saw was "everybody was falling in love with everybody", "everyone was kissing everyone", "everyone made out with everyone", "everyone wanted to marry everyone", etc.
I mean even the old men in the book had to GO BACK in time (as flashback) and take me through how again "everybody was falling in love with everybody", "everyone was kissing everyone", "everyone made out with everyone", "everyone wanted to marry everyone", status during their times.ONE single question haunted me throughout, and that was "Gosh, these people are kissing away, making out, holding hands all the time.
Her Dad Charles is best friends with Joe, since they served together in WWII.Tom and Kelly reconnect after.
This book is also about Kelly trying to have some connection to her dad before he dies.And Charles' relationship with Joe. What really happened in France during the war?
It was a heartbreaking story that you know had no good outcome.Lastly, Tom's 18 year old niece, Mallory, meets and falls for David.
It was not a perfect match on paper, but I cheered for them from the first time they met and loved their parts!All of this is going on underneath an overarching suspense plot involving an international terrorist.
Quick summaryDuring a mission, Navy SEAL Tom Paoletti suffers a head injury that sidelines him.
See, Tom was the leader of SEAL Team 16 and no matter the injury, his instincts are stellar.
In the meantime, he's also reconnecting with Kelly Ashton, his teenage crush and the woman who got away.Why this book is specialTom is the consummate hero.
This book is also the first in one of my all-time favorite series.
It's a wonderful story to begin an incredible series written by one of my most favorite authors.
The two men share years of memories of a very special French Resistance fighter with whom they were both in love (and still are).And Tom's niece Mallory embarks upon a sweet romance with a nerdy graphic novelist who wants to use her as his muse for his latest book.I decided to do a re-read of Suzanne Brockmann's Troubleshooters series in honor of the most recent and 13th book of the series, Into the Fire.
And then she includes a secondary romantic couple, one that usually runs as an arc through several books before culminating in a book of their own, and finally she includes a flashback story the centers on a WWII romance that has a connection to the people in current time.
A hard one to review as there were several story lines going on, but overall it was a very satisfying romance suspense novel with plenty of intrigue and interesting secondary characters.
What makes this book really good is the character development and the suspense storyline, but the romance itself is typical stuff with them getting to know each other again, a few small misunderstandings, and them dealing with some minor past issues.
There was also a storyline with Tom's uncle and Kelly's father as they retold their story of events in WWII.
4.5 Heartbreaking stars  Buddy read with the lovely Geishas    “You can’t choose who you love, Kelly, but you can waste it. Why on earth would anyone want to waste it?”   Fifty-six years ago Charles Ashton and Joe Paoletti both fought in the Second World War, they fell in love with the same woman, Cybele Desjardins, although only one of them had her love in return and both learned the true devastation of loss. They became best friend over the years, an unlikely friendship between the wealthy, ja
Fifty-six years ago Charles Ashton and Joe Paoletti both fought in the Second World War, they fell in love with the same woman, Cybele Desjardins, although only one of them had her love in return and both learned the true devastation of loss.
I know the blurb says that this book is about Tom and Kelly but for me it really was about Charles, Joe, their heartbreaking past and the true hero back then when they fought the war.
I am not sure why I haven't read any of her books before this, but that won't be the case going forward.Ms. Brockmann has crafted a great suspense plot into the lives of six primary characters.
With no one at HQ believing him he creates a team with his niece, her "new" boyfriend, Kelly, the respective elderly Uncle & Father and a couple of members of his team that can get leave to try to find The Merchant.There are 3 relationships being developed in the book in addition to the suspense plot, Tom and Kelly, a past romance for Charles and Joe and then a very cute romance between Tom's niece and her boyfriend.
Well, I didn’t hate-read it, obviously, because I thought I’d like it before starting, but hate-finished sounds a bit odd.
I almost wondered if the author had had any uncomfortable talks with Homeland Security for it, but one hopes not.The story of Tom, the bestest Navy SEAL guy, whose psych evals haven’t been peachy after he received a brain injury, and his determination to trust his ability to recognise this terrorist, was the only thing in the whole book I liked.
What I didn’t like was the way the story got buried in not one, and not even two, but three romances that I hated.
4.5 "The Ultimate Sacrifice for Love" Stars for the story and 3.5 Stars for William Dufris narration.This one started pretty slow for me with three interconnecting stories, including three love stories.
William Dufris narration definitely had some overacting and non-genuine sounding female voices, thus I can imagine that Patrick Lawlor's and Melanie Ewbank's later produced narration is likely the way to go with this classic.
Nonetheless I was able to finish the book, and some of the parts, particularly those of the older version of Charles who is dying and has an almost lack of air quality to his sound would likely be difficult for any narrator to reproduce.Source: Library-loan.
The primary story between Tom and Kelly which I was the most interested in at the beginning became the most predictable at the end and had that “aw shucks” vibe that just bugs me in a novel.
Once something does happen it just felt like it was too late and even when there was the moment of “miscommunication” and sparks start to fly in the heat department it was a bit flat.The story I was most interested in was the WWII story because it’s told in such a way that leaves you wondering who got the girl.
I love a book that stays with you for a while after you finish.
Unsung Hero has managed to do just that!
Tom is a very likable hero with flaws.
Kelly is a great character, who has been holding a torch for Tom for 16 years.
When they finally manage to hook back up after 16 years, the tables are turned and Kelly comes across as only interested in the sex.
The scenes were these two rediscover each other are very sensual and touching.Brockmann manages to keep three story lines going at one time, two in present day and one flash back to WWII.
BUT.....and this is a big but......I was SO happy to see a good heroine.
In her 30's, has a career, NOT a virgin, communicates like an adult, asks for what she wants, treats people nicely...doesn't have to act like a b*tch to prove how "bad assed" she is, doesn't run off doing TSTL things.
I will totally read the next in the series at some point just because I feel like I'm in a desert, starving for water when it comes to finding decent heroines in romance novels.
(Even the teenage girl who was having a first love/relationship was better than most heroines in current CR.
We get to find out what happened all those years ago and their story, past and present, made me shed a few tears.The third romance is between Mallory, Toms niece, and David and I loved every minute of it.
They were just so sweet and adorable together.I really enjoyed this book, but I have to admit that the main romance was the one I was the least interested in.
It was still a lovely story, but I enjoyed the WW2 plot and Mallory and David a lot more.
4 STARS!The book flows with intriguing storyline lots of action and a really BEAUTIFUL ENDING(s)What's inside.....Multiple POV, yay!Tom & Kelly ~Sweet as all get out!
Mallory & David~Adorable!
Rapid shifts it took me awile to get use the flow, but gosh with each story-line shift I felt a burst of energy with the word flow, and I did love that.
The Smexy....There are not many but there is a scene that was was unforgetable...Kelly I n the closet with Tom, it was pretty steamy.This Book Was My Buddy, My Pal for 2 days~I Love It!
4  stars. I must confess I liked it more that some people did. The flashback story to WWII didn’t bother me at all; in fact, I loved it! Go figure. I did expect a little more…of a climatic culmination at the end, but it was still very good. The love stories were excellent.
4 ½ stars. I must confess I liked it more that some people did. The flashback story to WWII didn’t bother me at all; in fact, I loved it! Go figure. I did expect a little more…of a climatic culmination at the end, but it was still very good. The love stories were excellent.
My 3 stars are all for David and Mallory. I loved their story. The rest? Blah. I would actually get annoyed when David and Mallory's story would stop and one of the other stories would continue. Tom and Kelly? Didn't care. Joe and Charles? Didn't care.
And then the historical romance, something Brockmann is well known for putting in her books.This time it's a three way between Tom's Uncle Joe, Kelly's dad Charles, and the woman they both love but neither could have, Cybele.
Ultimately Kelly admits to loving him, but their relationship doesn't seem settled yet, and I know from reading the rest of the series, it's not settled until book 2 or 3, not sure.Mallory and David are cute, but their romance happens a little fast, and reading about an 18-year old girl lose her virginity to a 20-year old guy, when she's not even told him she's still a virgin is a little creepy for me.
I can't recall what book I read first but I can tell you I have read them all more than once.
Yep, Brockmann created a gay FBI agent who has on page romance and they are the reason I am an MM fanatic.As for Unsung Hero, Kelly and Tom are very good together and they are the MCs, but we also get Maddy and Kevin, and historical romance of Charles who fell in love with a French woman in ww2, and so did Joe. That triangle was just as interesting as the present day action.If you have never read brockmann before, or never read this series, I highly recommend.
Price drop to $0.99 at Amazon US, 1/15/18!
I had a hard time - 3 or 3.5 stars and finally decided 3.5 stars.This book was actually several stories wrapped together [not really, but this is what it seemed to me].
Two things: 1) one story component got rather long winded and I got bored with it [tell you which one later] and 2) the H wasn't a bit of a pussy ...
not Alpha enough.Okay, the story lines I id'd:1) Tom and Kelly.
Her father's home is the large estate where Tom's uncle lives.
I've decided to move into book #3, so stay tuned.I think I outlined my likes/dislikes.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
His superiors question his story, wondering if he is suffering from paranoia due to his head injury.
As Tom tries to relax while visiting his great uncle Joe, he sees Kelly Ashton, a childhood friend he hasn't seen in years.
But when Tom once again sees The Merchant, he questions his sanity.
Besides the romance between Tom and Kelly, and the fact that Tom is seeing terrorists when others are questioning his sanity, we have a WWII flashback story about Tom's Uncle Joe and his best friend Charles Ashton (Kelly's father), who met during the war.
I almost want to shake myself for waiting so long to start this series. Fantastic story and can't wait to start the next book. I almost wish i can call in sick to work and just continue reading, but at least i'll be able to pick up the rest of the books i don't have at my bookstore today.
Loved it just as much the 2nd time around and can hardly wait to carry on with the series!
