https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13633552-chidambara-rahasya
The story about a place called Kesaruru where there is a considerable drop in the production of cardamom and the reasons behind that. And the rahasya is how and why did the scientist who was doing research on cardamom production suddenly died. Tejaswi describes how this turns into village politics, college "revolution" and finally into communal violence. Each of the characters whether it is Angadi - the CBI official, or the writer- Jayaram, or the student Rafi sound very realistic.
ಇಡೀ ಜೀವರಾಶಿ ಎಲಲಾ ಸಮಶಾನದಿಂದಲೇ ಉಭವಿಸಿದದು .
ಇಡೀ ಜೀವರಾಶಿ ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಸ್ಮಶಾನದಿಂದಲೇ ಉಭವಿಸಿದ್ದು .
Which is invisible to most.Well this book bearing no connection what so ever to that temple, writer deliberately uses this as the title, because like it, there is a secret message hidden behind all the hoo-haa that happens in the periphery of this story.
One needs to be politically unbiased, sensible and prudent to really understand that secret.Its my first book from the writer and its work of class.
We also see a Lynch's Twin Peaks style of working an investigation by Angadi when he allows a local writer cum fellow scientist to interpret the events from perspective of a fiction writer to get to the truth of mystery.
ಈ ಕಥೆಯು ಕಾಲಪನಿಕವಾದ ಕೆಸರೂರು ಎಂಬ ಊರಿನಲಲಿ ನಡೆಯುತತದೆ. ಹೊರಗಿನಿಂದ ನೋಡಲು ಸದಾ ಹಸಿರಿನಿಂದ ಕೂಡಿರುವ ಈ ಊರಿನಲಲಿ ಪರತಿಯೊಬಬರ ಮನಸಿನಲಲೂ ಏನೋ ಒಂದು ಕಾರಣದಿಂದಾಗಿ ದವೇಷ, ಅಸೂಯೆ, ಭಯ ಅಡಗಿರುತತದೆ. ಇದರಲಲಿ ಒಬಬ ಹೆಸರಾಂತ ಪರಿಸರ ವಿಜಞಾನಿಯ ಕೊಲೆಯ ಸುತತ ನಡೆಯುವ ಸಂಗತಿಗಳೇ ಮುಖಯ ಕಥಾ ವಸತು. ಇದರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಅಲಲಿಯ ಕೆಲವೊಂದು ಯುವಕರ ಕರಾಂತಿಯ ದಾಹದ ಬಗಗೆ, ಅವರ ವಿಚಾರಗಳು ಕೂಡ ಮೂಲ ಕಥೆಯ ಒಂದು ಭಾಗ. ಪಾತರಗಳ ಚಿತರಣ ಅಚಚುಕಟಟಾಗಿದದರಿಂದ ಅವರ ಬಗಗೆ ಓದುಗರ ತಲೆಯಲಲಿ ಅವು ಮುದರೆಯೊತತುತತವೆ. ಒಟಟಿನಲಲಿ ಇದು ಒಂದು ಸಾಮಾಜಿಕ ಕಳಕಳಿ ಕೂಡಿರುವ ಆಸಕತಿಕರ ಪುಸತಕ.
ಈ ಕಥೆಯು ಕಾಲ್ಪನಿಕವಾದ ಕೆಸರೂರು ಎಂಬ ಊರಿನಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆಯುತ್ತದೆ. ಹೊರಗಿನಿಂದ ನೋಡಲು ಸದಾ ಹಸಿರಿನಿಂದ ಕೂಡಿರುವ ಈ ಊರಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರತಿಯೊಬ್ಬರ ಮನಸಿನಲ್ಲೂ ಏನೋ ಒಂದು ಕಾರಣದಿಂದಾಗಿ ದ್ವೇಷ, ಅಸೂಯೆ, ಭಯ ಅಡಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಇದರಲ್ಲಿ ಒಬ್ಬ ಹೆಸರಾಂತ ಪರಿಸರ ವಿಜ್ಞಾನಿಯ ಕೊಲೆಯ ಸುತ್ತ ನಡೆಯುವ ಸಂಗತಿಗಳೇ ಮುಖ್ಯ ಕಥಾ ವಸ್ತು. ಇದರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಅಲ್ಲಿಯ ಕೆಲವೊಂದು ಯುವಕರ ಕ್ರಾಂತಿಯ ದಾಹದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ, ಅವರ ವಿಚಾರಗಳು ಕೂಡ ಮೂಲ ಕಥೆಯ ಒಂದು ಭಾಗ. ಪಾತ್ರಗಳ ಚಿತ್ರಣ ಅಚ್ಚುಕಟ್ಟಾಗಿದ್ದರಿಂದ ಅವರ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಓದುಗರ ತಲೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಅವು ಮುದ್ರೆಯೊತ್ತುತ್ತವೆ. ಒಟ್ಟಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಇದು ಒಂದು ಸಾಮಾಜಿಕ ಕಳಕಳಿ ಕೂಡಿರುವ ಆಸಕ್ತಿಕರ ಪುಸ್ತಕ.
The social fabric and societal issues of that period (much of it being still relevant to date) are so well presented using an excellent mix of humour, (indirect) sarcasm, connection to current affairs and still appealing to the young and the old striking the perfect balance of different emotions. One of the best books I have ever read
Its very good allrounder. books itself cover many things happening in one place.. from revolutionary youths, investigation, ecological problem and much more.. as many indicates its ever ending mystery.
Poornachandra Tejaswi narrates a story which depicts the hard reality of present day on how castes & religions would lead to violence among people and eventually destroying a treasure hidden around them. Story is set in the ghats of chikkamagaluru telling us how human emotions could get Complex !
One of the best rated kannada book
nice book
wonderful book as curious as jugari cross
Suspense , mysterious , thrilling even books can give more feel than movies and series
This is one of my favorite books from tejaswi sir.
ಅದಬುತ.
ಅದ್ಬುತ.
Execeptional
this book on top looks like a thriller, ecological, with some comedy.
but deep down it has endless thoughts and thought provoking.
like people choose to believe what they wanted to believe, they choose to hear what they wanted to hear, they see what they wanted to see.
events that occurs around them ppl interpret in their own views.
you will see blur line between events and truth.
the chain of events occurs in the novel people take it has in their own view will lead to a disaster.
I read this 4 years back but this books makes me thinks a lot.
ಜೀವನ ನಿಜವಾಗಿಯೂ ಸವಾತಂತರಯದ ಭರಮೆಯಲಲಿ ರೂಪಿತವಾಗುವ ಕರಮಬದದ ವಿಕಾಸವೇ ?? Philosophy such as these along with Romance, Ecological issues, Religion etc. are well knitted into a fantastic story. Another thrilling short novel by Tejaswi. The novel holds the reader firmly because of the suspense story line. Tejaswi's love for the western ghats is again expressed here. A tinge of Malnad slang serves as the "midi upplinakayi" for the delicious feast served by the novel.
ಜೀವನ ನಿಜವಾಗಿಯೂ ಸ್ವಾತಂತ್ರ್ಯದ ಭ್ರಮೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ರೂಪಿತವಾಗುವ ಕ್ರಮಬದ್ದ ವಿಕಾಸವೇ ?? Philosophy such as these along with Romance, Ecological issues, Religion etc. are well knitted into a fantastic story. Another thrilling short novel by Tejaswi. The novel holds the reader firmly because of the suspense story line. Tejaswi's love for the western ghats is again expressed here. A tinge of Malnad slang serves as the "midi upplinakayi" for the delicious feast served by the novel.
After I was disappointed with the third short story I had read from Tejasvi sir, I was not having much expectations. But this book really surprised me and added so much of depth to the simple narrative. Since, I have lived close to 4 years in Mudigere Taluk, I could actually connect with Kesarur and feel how the politics ruined the simple village lifes in Western Ghats.Excellent writing by Tejasvi sir. A must read for all Kannada lovers.
tykjtktk
Coming soon
One of the best books in Kannada.
it is great book which makes you think about wheather our life is going independently or under the control of some energy
Best story ever
this one of the Good Book
this is good......
classic novel
this is mind blowing... my favourite..
I read to novel
chidambara rahasya beatiful novel. it is deep peep into the forest.
Rahasya started on 27.8.14
Good Story
