https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2865.Girl_with_a_Pearl_Earring
“I heard voices outside our front door - a woman's, bright as polished brass, and a man's, low and dark like the wood of the table I was working on. They were the kind of voices we heard rarely in our house. I could hear rich carpets in their voices, books and pearls and fur.”  The Girl With the Pearl EarringWhen the Vermeers came to visit Griet’s home she had no idea they were there for her. Her parents had decided, given their near destitution, to find Griet a position as a maid with a wealthy
Catharina, Vermeer’s wife, liked being pregnant and though the added burden of a new mouth to feed each year places extra financial stress on her husband and her mother Maria Thins she is oblivious to the consequences.
It makes me so nervous that I want to reach into the painting and move it to somewhere safer.Van Ruijven, like odious men always seem to be, is adept at finding young women alone.
Scarlett Johansson played Griet in the 2003 movie of The Girl With the Pearl Earring.The painting that Vermeer paints of Griet is a compromise to Van Ruijven who wanted much, much more.
I loved the movie--it was just so incredibly sumptuous--and was curious to know the story in the novel, which I knew from experience, and from my wife's continuous comments, would be different, more detailed.
The story of the maid Griet in 1600's Delft, Holland, was amazing in its simple prose and endless emotion.
The details of seventeen century Holland are rich; you feel you are walking the canal-lined streets of Delft, smelling the pungent scents of the Meat Market, holding your breath as Vermeer paints next to you.
Watch the movie, by all means (the photography is absolutely incredible), but then read the novel and get the whole story.
I know almost nothing about art, but even I can tell that Girl With a Pearl Earring by Johannes Vermeer is a brilliant painting; 'captivating' is probably the best word to describe it.
So, is the novel as captivating as the piece that inspired it?The short answer would be 'no'.Now for the longer answer...Chevalier is probably one of the best-known historical novelists of the last ten years, with this book always in the foreground when she is discussed.
I feel it will be some time before I read anything else by Tracy Chevalier.
Griet is hired as a maid to the Vermeer family in Delft.
This novel supposes that Griet the maid was the sitter for Vermeer's great work Girl with a Pearl Earring.
The novel mainly concerns the inner workings of the Vermeer household and Griet's attempts to keep everything in control.
Whilst I will admit that at times Griet's dialogue is somewhat stilted and some lines are just downright odd ('His smile made me grip my broom tightly' was one line that made me chuckle due to its utter ridiculousness), she is never an annoying or tiring character.
Set in 17th century Delft, Holland, the novel was inspired by Delft school painter Johannes Vermeer's painting Girl with a Pearl Earring.
Her father has been recently blinded in an accident, and the family's precarious economic situation forces Griet's parents to find her employment as a maid in painter Johannes Vermeer's household.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: دختری با گوشواره مروارید؛ نویسنده: تریسی شوالیه؛ مترجم: گلی امامی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، چشمه، 1380 در 237 صعنوان: دختری با گوشواره مروارید؛ نویسنده: تریسی شوالیه؛ مترجم: طاهره صدیقیان؛ مشخثات نشر: تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1381، در 269 ص، شابک: 9789645757401؛نقاشی روی جلد کتاب را، یوهانس ورمیر، در سده ی هفدهم میلادی کشیده است، حدس‌ها برای شناسایی نام این مدل نقاشی، بسیار گسترده بوده؛ و همه ی آنها، به علت عدم وجود مشخصه‌ ای ویژه، در صورت، لباس، یا حتی محیط، در حد حدس و گمان، باقیمانده‌ است.
I CAN'T SHOUT "MEH!" LOUD ENOUGH!!!The popular fame obtained by this book and its subsequent movie version starring Scarlett Johansson...*two hours later*(Sorry, I was daydreaming)...had me expecting a tumultuous romance, a grab-ya and hold-ya reading experience.
Really, our protagonist's main enemy is jealousy.
I read through to the end, expecting something bigger to happen the whole way, but even though it never did, I did still manage to get through it all, so there's something to be said for that.In the end, however, this book has to say about as much as does a picture of a beautiful woman.
Among them: Griet saying things like "I always regretted that decision" to indicate that she's looking back on a time that is very clearly written as the present; not one character shows any development throughout the novel; sixteen-year-old Griet, the daughter of a tile painter, somehow knows more about painting and composition than Vermeer, a professional artist who actually managed to garner some fame during his living years.
Even when the book pissed me off (which was often), I will admit that I never found Griet herself to be irritating (maybe because I kept fantasizing about Scarlett Johansson to save my brain from oozing through my ears?) -- but I was irked at how it felt like Chevalier was Mary Sue-ing her way through the character.
Beautifully written and read aloud, this is an imagining of the possible life of the girl depicted in Vermeer's lovely painting.
Griet parents hired her out as a maid to the Vermeer family.
Griet is concerned because her family is Protestant and while the Vermeer’s are Catholic.
Catharina, Vermeer’s wife was concerned about Griet’s physical ability to perform the job while Vermeer noted how she had laid out the vegetable she was cutting up for a stew separating them by color, in a circular pattern.The Vermeers have five (5) children with one on the way.
He is married but has a reputation for chasing young maids.Griet later took on more responsibility which included purchasing food for the family.
This was a pleasant diversion.
This novel about a pretty maid who appeared in one of Vermeer's paintings is easy to slip into, didn't ask much of me, and kept me entertained for a few days.
Is it great literature?
No. Was it turned into a decent movie?
Yes. Would I recommend the book?
Depends.
The plot skips along well enough, and I enjoyed how the author invented stories for some of Vermeer's famous paintings.
If you like light historical fiction or stories about artists, you may enjoy this.
Or you could just watch the movie.
Have you ever seen the painting Girl with a Pearl Earring by Johannes Vermeer?
Well, at the end of the movie, in the credits (yes, I read the credits; besides, the music was amazing), it said “based on the novel by Tracy Chevalier”, so I told my self “why, it was based upon a book, therefore I should read it”, and that's why I decided to read it.Girl with a Pearl Earring was an interesting book to read.
First of all because it features a famous painter, Johannes Vermeer; secondly, because the story is narrated from their maid's point of view; and finally, because we get to see how society was back in the seventeenth century.The story follows Griet, a young girl who gets a job as a maid in Vermeer's house.
توی این داستان چیزی که خیلی موج میزد، «زندگی» بود....
و به قدری صمیمی و پشت هم و ساده روایت میکنه که تو وقتی به خودت میای میبینی غرق در حرفهاش شدی و توی یه زمان خیلی کوتاه کل کتاب رو تموم کردی.........
یه غم خاصی بود تو زندگیش و نرسیدنهاش که تا آخر داستان باعث میشد قوی ترین حسی که تو من به وجود میاره اندوه باشه....سبک نوشتن نویسنده هم دوست داشتنی بود...
یه دفعه حرفهای غریبی رو توی دهان راوی میگذاشت که خیلی با فکر و دل آدم بازی میکرد......جمعا دوست داشتم کتاب رو...
I wrote a paper on artistic expression using Girl with a Pearl Earring as a source, since it is a painting, a movie, and a book.
I absolutely love the study done of the character of Vermeer.
At one point, a character tells Griet (the imagined Girl with a Pearl Earring) to be careful, since Vermeer does not see her, but rather the painting that she will make.
The artist sees the world only as paintings, not as people.
I do warn that it is incredibly quiet and intimate, and not a lot happens.
When Griet went to work at the home of the painter Johannes Vermeeer, she thought she knew his role: doing the housework and taking care of the painter's six children.
No one expected, however, that her delicate manners, her insight and her fascination with the master's paintings would draw her inexorably into her world.But as the girl became an integral part of his work, the growing intimacy between them spread the tension and disappointment in the house and acquired the proportion of a scandal throughout the city.
She possesses the laudable ability to maneuver 17th century Delft in a shrewd and practical manner while still retaining her love of art; finding beauty in even mundane things.Griet has a first-rate mind, concealed in the body of - essentially - a peasant.
This poor maid is the only person who truly understands Vermeer's work.
In fact, the thing I like about Griet the most is that she never even flirts with self-pity or self aggrandizement.
Scarlett Johanssen plays Griet like someone not used to housework, Colin Firth's Vermeer obtusely has puppy dog eyes for Scarlett, and Cillian Murphy is just too Metro to be believed.
I've been hearing good things about this book for years.
I found the prose artificially concise (as if she had purposely limited her vocabulary by a factor of ten, or as if the narrator was Dutch but just learning English), the characters completely flat and unbelievable, and the rise in drama both ill-explained and uninteresting.
And also, good god, please don't over-explain every single metaphor, image, and implication.
"The butcher said one thing, but I think he may have been implying another -- something I was meant to catch onto.
I understand what the butcher said.
Girl With a Pearl Earring tells a short story using a lot of words.
The book is more like an historical account of an ordinary life with occasional excitement sprinkled in.I got a little bored at times.
Tracy Chevalier did a wonderful job of centering the story around Vermeer by only ever referring to him with pronouns.
The author never outright stated Griet's feelings for Vermeer in the book, but made them clear through occasional hints:
"I did not like to think of him that way, with his wife and children.
There were many aspects of Girl With a Pearl Earring that the reader had to infer from hints.
محور اصلی این کتاب تابلوی دختری با گوشواره مروارید (Girl with Pearl Earring) است، که شوالیه دختر این تصویر را به عنوان راوی داستانش انتخاب می کند و با وی به درون زندگی شخصی و کاری ورمر سرک می کشد.اکثر آثار ورمر پرتره هایی از طبقه معمولی و بورژوا در حین انجام کار یا زندگی روزمره اند.
شوالیه با گمان سوم جلو می رود.در روایت شخصی شوالیه از این تابلو، این دختر، گری یت است؛ دختر یک کاشی ساز فقیر که برای کار و کمک مالی به خانواده اش به عنوان پیشخدمت به خانه ورمر نقاش می رود.
I loved this. I don't say that often enough about a book. I was impressed with the writing, completely invested in the story and pleased with the ending. It's not easy to tick all those boxes, especially in a relatively short story. What more can I say.
I love that Chevalier makes up all these lives to give a back story to just this one painting.
We actually see the painting of three or four of Vermeer's 35 through Griet's eyes.
I hope Chevalier got the process right, because it would be a pity if he actually painted some other way.Vermeer hires Griet as a house girl for his wife and five children.
Vermeer and his wife Catherina come to Griet's home to meet her and the initial meeting comes across more as his hiring her for his own mysterious "pleasure", but when Griet arrives in their home she truly is a house girl.
دوست نداشتم انقدر زود تموم شه :(((از اونجایی که عکس این نقاشی روی میزم هست و هرروز میدیمش،خوندن این کتاب و ماجراش خیلی برام جالب بود.و زیبایی قلم نویسنده و توصیف جزییات واقعا لذت بخشش کرده بود
An utter joy to read. Really engaging, historically interesting, with strong characterisation and beautiful writing. I will definitely be picking up more by her!
I enjoyed this book.
The story is subtle making it the perfect example that less is more in a story.
Some of my thoughts as I read: 1.
The society of the time classified everyone as a "have" or a "have not".
For a girl who was in between it was a matter of time before she was forced to one side or the other.
She never fit in either world.
2. Clearly this girl had a raw, undeveloped talent for art.
She had eleven children and a husband who cruelly excluded her from his art.5.
Εντάξει, πείτε ότι θέλετε αλλά εγώ δεν είμαι φαν της ζωγραφικής- ούτε που ήξερα ότι υπάρχει ζωγράφος με το όνομα Vermeer.
Και ούτε που διάβασα το οπισθόφυλλο πολύ προσεχτικά, μπήκα στο βιβλιοπωλείο, βρήκα φτηνό βιβλίο, διάβασα τις πρώτες σειρές του οπισθόφυλλου και το πήρα.
Και στην πορεία ανακάλυψα ότι αυτός ο ζωγράφος πράγματι υπήρξε!!!
Οπότε από ένα σημείο και μετά διάβαζα βλέποντας ταυτόχρονα τα έργα που περιγράφονταν στο ίντερνετ και πραγματικά το χάρηκα.
Εκτός από τα έργα του ζωγράφου που περιγράφει, μου άρεσε η περιγραφή του τρόπου ζωής των υπηρετριών του 17ου αιώνα, σπάνια συναντώ βιβλία που περιγράφουν τη ζωή εκείνης της εποχής.
Είναι καλογραμμένο το βιβλίο και διαβάζεται εύκολα.
I don't remember if the Protestants VS Catholics issue was much focused on in the film version, but it was quite interesting to follow it throughout the book, and from what I've read, Chevalier's first novel went even deeper into it.I terribly liked how Vermeer was always he, him or  his for Griet and the Master and Servant relationship was very much to my taste!
I am so sorry to close the book's covers and leave their world.Through page 152: I will start with a quote and then explain my thoughts:"Whatever she saw or understood, she decided it was time to stir the pot once more (sir up trouble).
But my question is why do some people have to cause trouble for those they for some inherent reason simply don't like?
The movie was a total failure in its ability to convey the causes of the characters' emotional undercurrents.
The book has enticed me to go to Delft and see the city where Vermeer worked.
Over 2 years a quiet and obedient maid named Griet goes to live as a servant for Johannes Vermeer and his family.
The Vermeer family, with the exception of the painter himself, is not fond of the strange Protestant girl; and as Maria Thins, the grandmother, says, "Never so much trouble with a maid before." The real trouble comes, however, when the artist takes a liking to the young girl and allows her to assist him in his work.
As if these "privileges" were not causing enough disquietude within the family, matters only get worse when Vermeer agrees, at a friend's request, to paint Griet.
Da casa do pintor situada no Canto dos Papistas, as janelas abertas para a cidade de Delft permitem ao leitor sentir o pulsar de vida de uma típica cidade mercantil holandesa e divisar toda a amálgama social que nela se movimentava.
As criadas, os açougueiros, os mercadores ricos, os modestos pintores de azulejos.E tudo nos chega através do olhar atento e arguto de Griet, a criada dos Vermeer que, não deixando de ser uma mulher do seu tempo com todas as limitações que tal implicava, é impelida a escolher o seu destino.
(view spoiler)[Em termos simplistas, esta é a história muito bem contada de como um brinco de pérola salvou um quadro e a dignidade de uma mulher.
An evocative look at life in Delft, Holland in the 1600’s. A quietly gripping tale of what might have been. The story is a fictionalised account of the circumstances surrounding the painting of Vermeer’s masterpiece ‘Girl with a pearl earring’.Griet, the central character, is a strong, honourable, modest and likeable character and the events that overtake her, because of the sensibilities of the age, are tense and exciting. The writing is smooth, exact and fluent. I would often flick to the cover to look at the painting, adding extra life to this great novel.
What a visual little book. The need for Griet to be obedient and silent as a girl, a housemaid, and later as a model, makes visual observation her key feature as the narrator. I did see the movie when it came out....it was slow and beautifully filmed....a perfect interpretation of this novel. I also enjoyed scrutinizing all the Vermeer paintings described in the book.
