https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15818107-orphan-train
The second narrative of Molly, a teen foster child, is marred by the way the author, Christina Baker Kline, portrays her oppressive foster mom.
This could've been such a highly esteemed literary novel if she hadn't let her personal agenda abound in this minor character and second narrative.
A character analysis of the foster mom is incredibly simple to sketch: white, Christian, conservative, meat-eating-vegetarian hater, petty, shallow, ungrateful, judgmental, racist.
Obviously, Baker Kline has her own judgments she couldn't leave out of this novel.
Baker Kline, your agenda did not go unnoticed, and I will not be recommending this book.
When I was 16 my Great Aunt Pauline told me the saddest true story.
Pauline remembered being set out on the porch with her younger siblings, the babies in a laundry basket, and her father standing on the porch as people came by to pick out who they wanted.
I am not a puppy in a basket." I am crying just remembering the pain in her voice when she told me this.
She told me she didn't see any of her siblings until she was an adult, and that the couple trained her in how to be a good worker.
"In my nightmares I am alone on a train, heading into the wilderness. Or in a maze of hay bales. Or walking the streets of a big city, gazing at lights in every window, seeing the families inside, none of them mine." After my book club chose Orphan Train for our next meet-up, I picked up my copy and started reading just a little of the first page to get a "feel" for what the book would be like. I didn't intend to finish it right now, or even read any more than the first page, but I somehow ende
After my book club chose Orphan Train for our next meet-up, I picked up my copy and started reading just a little of the first page to get a "feel" for what the book would be like.
In this book, Vivian is an orphaned Irish immigrant at just nine years old, and she finds herself on one of the orphan trains.
The 1920s/30s part of this book tells the story of her life, being moved from one family to the next in Minnesota.
I felt sorry for Molly at times, but she was bratty and not easy to like, though I still quite enjoyed the insight into her mind.
Before I became a foster/adoptive parent, I would have ranked this book much higher.
And of course Molly is just misunderstood, with no serious behavioral problems or alienating qualities.
That the foster care system is horrible, that the book is from Molly's perspective, that I'm extrapolating.
The foster mom is horrible.
While I enjoyed the historical story about the orphan train (which is why I didn't give it 1 star), the modern day counterpart seemed like it was slapped on at the last minute, using every available stereotype to awkward and absurd effect.
TL;DR: The modern day half of the story is poorly written.
Instead, I found this to be a fluffy, shallow story chock full of huge stereotypes.
Each character was painted with broad strokes that created no space for this reader to wonder or develop compassion.
Both story lines were painfully predictable.
That's how she met Vivian who needed her attic cleaned out?
That's how the stories eventually merged?
All of the characters' personal epiphanies seemed forced.
They rise up through the pavement; we absorb them through our soles." Overwrought, in my opinion.Another author to cross off my list.
However, she has plenty of fans who will continue to absorb her words right through their soles.
Christina Baker Kline has definitely achieved that here: how could I possibly finish the novel and not need to know more about these orphan trains.
Taken to a Children's Aid Society orphanage, she soon finds herself boarded on an orphan train bound for Minnesota where prospective 'parents' will choose a child they want.
People need to tell their stories; it is often a matter of waiting for the right audience.The Children's Aid Society, to me, is a misnomer; I wonder how many of these children actually had advantageous placements.
I was going to say this book reads like a YA novel, but then I realized that is an insult to some really well-written YA novels (The Giver, To Kill a Mockingbird, Flowers for Algernon...) Like many other readers, I thought the book had potential with a very interesting subject (orphan trains), but the writing was amateurish, with incredibly stereotypical characters, a predictable plot and way too much sentimentality.
I doubted throughout the book that the author had any firsthand experience with orphans, Native Americans or the modern day foster care system.
This is just one of those really awesome stories that weaves historical details within a contemporary setting and enriches the lives of all who read it.
While the story is bleak at times, and certainly captures the incredibly hard lives orphans were subjected to in the past, but it also made a nice parallel with how those who wind up in the system today are equally at risk and suffer some of the same prejudices and abuse, being tossed around from place to place, used for labor or for money.
I was just expecting something a little more adult in terms of the writing style.That said, I think the subject of the book is very interesting.
The ending was a little too neat and contrived, but I can forgive that because the rest of Vivian's story was so rich and fascinating.I'm not rating this book higher because of Molly.
It's pretty clear that the author only intended Molly to be a vehicle for Vivian's story, which is disappointing to me because I think the juxtaposition of Molly's and Vivian's stories would have so much more depth if Molly's character was developed more.
It is a beautiful book - everything from the story to the imagery.
Two parallel stories being told about what happens to a young girl when her family life is threatened.
The elder, a 90-something year old woman remembering her past.
The younger, a teenager doing community service for the 90 year old.
The stories nearly become one.
want to help them, feel awful for what happens to children.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
With some tweaking and editing, this might be a good young adult book as that's how it reads.
The author did appear to do her research, so I'm not sure why she chose not to include more of it.The book was painfully predictable.
At the first hint of hint of World War II, I knew what would happen to Luke.
The texting, the business with the wifi, Twitter, Facebook....these are all things that belong in a book for teens, not in an adult book.What bothers me the most, however, is that years ago I recall reading a book that very much follows the lines Vivian's younger life.
This story is about one of those children, Niamh, as told through the eyes of her older self - Vivian, a name she was given once eventually adopted by a caring couple.
We learn about her harsh life as the 91-year old Vivian relates the details to a modern day teen and foster home drifter named Molly.
The voice of Molly appealed to me less than that of Niamh, or Vivian.
Vivian traveled from NYC to Minnesota as a young girl on one of the infamous "orphan trains" that was used to get orphans out of the cities into the country where they might have a better opportunity to find families and to be able to make a good life.
I've read a couple fictional accounts of what these orphan trains were like and it always amazes me that there was something like that in this country.
Vivian's story also had a lot more twists and turns than Molly's story (I love being surprised by book events).
“Time constricts and flattens, you know. It’s not evenly weighted. Certain moments linger in the mind and others disappear.” There’s no sugar coating it - this story broke my heart. I had no idea there were orphaned children that faced this fate; being thrown on a train from New York to the midwest in order to find a “family”. I say “family” because these people were looking for free labor as opposed to a child they were going to love.The past is told from Niamh’s perspective, an Irish girl tha
I say “family” because these people were looking for free labor as opposed to a child they were going to love.The past is told from Niamh’s perspective, an Irish girl that emigrated to America with her family, only to lose them all in a fire and end up an orphan.
I could feel her loneliness seeping off of the pages.The current time period is told from Molly’s perspective, a 17 year-old foster kid, struggling in her current situation.
He added the heart, something I felt was missing and desperately needed to connect more with the story.
"Orphan Train" by Christina Baker Kline completely tugged at my heartstrings.
Both come from toxic families, and were later placed in foster care after becoming orphans.
Vivian's turbulent life aboard the orphan train had me in tears, and the families that took her in were nothing but disappointments and heartaches.
The same can be said about Molly's upbringing in foster care in the present day.
Sometimes the people we end up connecting with on an emotional level are those who are not blood-related.
Vivian and Molly's surprising friendship feels sincere and respectful.
3.5 StarsI am not sure if this was the best time for me to have read Orphan Train, so it's hard for me to rate this one.
I really did enjoy this one and I do love to be taken on an emotional journey and I definitely learned something here, as I was unaware of Orphan trains.
As the stories are told separately we start to understand their interconnections with each other and their stories become one.Orphan Train had all the elements I love in an emotional read for me with a satisfying ending.
My rating for this one is 3.5 at the time of reading for my enjoyment.
This is another one of those "this book could have been so much better" books.
I enjoyed learning about the orphan train and the experiences of those who were forced to ride them.
I also enjoyed the relationship between 17-yr-old Molly and 91-yr-old Vivian, both of whom were orphans.
So far, so good.
Add to that Molly and Vivian had several identical experiences and it just got old.
Also, the parts about Molly's Native American heritage seemed forced and I wasn't surprised to learn that the author's mother teaches a course about Native American women in literature and myth.
In this absorbing tale, Vivian sees something of her younger self in Molly and as they go through the boxes Molly learns about Vivian's life as one of the children put on the orphan train.
It is impossible not to be emotionally drawn to both of these characters.
The narrative is realistic and told by both characters.
Molly and Vivian both help each other and come to terms with what for Vivian is the end of her life, with a big surprise thrown in, and for Molly what is the beginning.
The author includes at the end of the book pictures of some of the children.
If not placed, the remaining children were transported, once again, back to institutional life in the East until they became of age.Christina Baker Kline has done an exceptional job of presenting the story of Niamh Power, a fictional character, who represents many aspects of a child's life under this system.
The additional insights and interviews with the author at the end of the book provided such an extension to her story.What makes this such an exceptional read is Ms. Kline's use of a parallel story of current conditions alongside the telling of Niamh's life.
1920's America, orphans were put on trains and taken to the Midwest. At each stop that the train pulled into some people were willing to take on a child either to adopt or to work for them. Some were treated like family members and well treated, other children were not so lucky. This is the story of one girl who is now an old lady and is telling her story to a girl who is helping her clear out her attic. Quite sad in parts as is was based on a true story.
I had never heard of these "Orphan Trains," and still find it heartbreaking to see just how horribly humans can treat one another, especially children.
These trains, carrying homeless, abandoned, and orphaned kids ran for many years, up until 1929.
I felt Kline was brilliant in creating such an amazing story, while at the same time shining her spotlight on an abhorrent piece of American History.
Kline has a lot going on here, entwining a current situation with her telling of the past, yet not once did I feel lost in any way.
She learnt very early in life, as a nine-year-old girl, when they were lined up by height at the train station in New York, that it was best to not think about the past.
Later in her life she would have to forget how they were transported from one station to the next, lining up on stages in halls around the country, where people could pick them like work horses for various labor purposes.
The comparison between the young Molly's, and the much older Vivian's, orphan tales was so well done.
Shortly after an odd prologue about an unnamed character believing in ghosts, we meet Molly, a troubled Goth teen in the foster care system.
Molly is a tough, demi-orphan (view spoiler)[she actually has a drunken father around somewhere (hide spoiler)], but she loves to read.
Thanks to Molly’s perfect boyfriend, she snags a community service gig helping an elderly woman clean out her attic (view spoiler)[because you can’t die and leave a mess (hide spoiler)].
So we start to learn about Vivian’s childhood and her experiences on the Orphan Train.
Es bastante triste si piensas que las cosas pueden ir para bien pero una niña de tan solo 9 años tenga que coser y limpiar la casa y ser tratada como una basura solo por que es huérfana te hace daño.
Poco después la Asociación de Socorro Infantil la lleva a otra casa en un campo con la familia Grote donde la madre no hace más que dormir, el padre se pasa todo el tiempo fuera y Niamh tiene que cuidar de los 4 hijos de la familia.
Orphan Train is an unfortunate train wreck of generic, formulaic, historical fiction plotting and all the subtlety and nuance of a Mack truck.
It's got a great premise - the orphan trains were a real part of American history.
Both the present day story and the historical story both suffer from ridiculous cardboard characters and plot situations that are entirely predictable and cliched.
2 stars only for the setting and the potential of the book.
Goodreads needs half stars to more accurately rate books.
In information at the back of the book, it said that their might be ten thousand orphans living on the streets of New York during this time period.
I would think that the orphan trains were developed to get the orphans off the streets, ridding the people who lived there of a problem and that some of the adults involved were genuinely trying to help these children.
Surly Molly, who has had such a rough life, learns to care about Vivian and enjoys being around her.
I was not aware of the "Orphan Trains" and learned a lot in reading this book.
This seemed a solid three-star book to me throughout just because it was an engaging and well-done story, but I didn't find a particular attachment to the characters, nor did I see how the threads between the two perspectives wove together.
It operated somewhat on the surface level, and though it was a sad story, I felt it played it very safe.
I added a whole star for the last third of the book, though, when the stakes were raised and I had to put the book down because I was crying so much.
I loved this book :-). I had never heard of the Orphan Trains so it was great to learn something while reading. The parts of the book set in the past were my favorite although I did like Molly's story as well. I had a few tears at the end. Looking forward to the movie :-).
The book is told from the perspective of two young girls, each in their own way orphans, one living in contemporary times and the other back during the years of the Depression.
In this way the book reads somewhat as a young adult novel.
I appreciate that Vivian, the orphan child who lived through the Depression,(view spoiler)[ never really was able to let down her guard, to let others in close, except perhaps through talking with Molly (hide spoiler)].
I kind of liked that the adults disappointed me, does that surprise you?
You are told that the audiobook will be narrated by two: Jessica Almasy and Suzanne Toren.
Books surprise you.
Orphan Train is a beautifully written story.This is a story about 91 year old Vivian who as a child 
