https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47763.I_Know_What_You_Did_Last_Summer
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?????Bruh, you’re telling me this movie came out 21 years ago as of today?
For a movie that came out when I was barely 10 years old, I think about I Know What You Did Last Summer a lot more than I should.
I think the hate it gets nowadays is a bit overblown (even if some of the critique is justified, I Know What You Did Last Summer has a lot of good, but also some bad things).
Or did they?Someone knows what they did last summer.
In all seriousness though, the novelization wasn't quite as enthralling as I thought it would be.
In this sense, it's more like an Alfred Hitchcock thriller with teens than slasher fare.Set in the vicinity of Silver Spring, Maryland with its mountain roads, the story begins with high school graduate Julie James getting summer off to a promising start when an acceptance letter to Smith College, the alma mater of her widowed mother, arrives in the mail.
Making reference to a "pact" they made last summer, Barry blames the letter on Ray, who Helen reveals is back in town.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsWelcome to . . . .  I decided to take a break from my usual selections . . . .  And read listen to this oldie-but-goodie to celebrate my favorite time of year . . .  (Spoiler Alert: He’s really going to murder her for being a basic white bitch.)After having a pretty meh time with Killing Mr. Griffin during Banned Book Week, I set my expectations super low before starting this one. Imagine my delight when I ended up really enjo
And read listen to this oldie-but-goodie to celebrate my favorite time of year .
(Spoiler Alert: He’s really going to murder her for being a basic white bitch.)After having a pretty meh time with Killing Mr. Griffin during Banned Book Week, I set my expectations super low before starting this one.
The basic premise was the same – group of drunken stumbly teenie-boppers kill someone in a hit and run and then decide .
Little plot twist: in the book version they didn’t run over an adult – instead it was a kid .
Not the greatest film in the world and even worse of a book. I Know What You Did Last Summer is so cheesy and predictable that it seems almost on-purpose. The characters are ridiculous caricatures of "typical teens" and they acted completely ridiculous at the best of times.
Okay guys, I read this book when I was in fourth grade (when the movie came out) so my recollection will be a little bit foggy.
(hide spoiler)]So the plot of this story centers on Julie James (view spoiler)[ I knew a girl with the same name in high school who snitched on her whole science class about cheating on some exam and found herself friendless in senior year.
It isn't until the end that she realizes that, unlike the movie where the killer is a weird fisherman, the stalker is (view spoiler)[ Johnny Galecki's character from the movie  (hide spoiler)].
I would have probably enjoyed this novel way more if I had read it when I was about 13 years old.
Also, the length of the book was ideal, just in case if I didn’t enjoy it I wouldn’t have wasted too much time on it.
I did however enjoy the main characters, I felt like they were well written and weren’t confusing to keep up with.
The author didn’t flood you with an excessive amount of characters in the novel so you could easily distinguish them from one another.
Nonetheless, if you are looking for a quick read that is also entertaining, this is an adequate book!
The Development is a page turner, but I think it is very predictable since the middle of the book, at least for me, even though I read it till the end because I wanted to know what would happen.*Characters: With four main characters (two boys and two girls), it was amazing the fact that they had this oldie vibe and even when they are the cliché personalities (Good, Bad, Innocent, Silly, Handsome, Pretty, etc.) I found it interesting and I think this can be passed on because of the time it was written.
!!WARNING THIS WARNING CONTAINS A SPOILER THAT THIS BOOK WAS MADE INTO A MOVIE.!!Hopefully you didn't just read that.
For those of you who were smart enough to skip that spoiler you can now read in confidence knowing that you will not be told that the book was made into a movie.
Unfortunately, you will be wrong.Since I have neither read the book, nor seen the movie.
I can safely say that I am an objective critic when it comes to comparing the book to the movie.
To avoid this I plan on reading the book and watching the movie at the same time.
Then happens what always happens in such situations: an accident on a dark road.
For fear of the police they don't administer first aid but instead do a hit-and-run.One year later - they've almost forgotten the incident - they're reminded of it via mysterious letters.
Someone outside of their circle seems to know their dark secret.
Lois Duncan wrote this book (and several other horror-mystery-books for teenagers) in the 1970s.
The case was never solved.More than 20 years after it was published, this book was made into a Blockbuster-movie, following the success of "Scream".
I honestly can't remember if I read this book as a teenager, but I definitely saw the movie and it scared the pants off me.
(hide spoiler)]All of that being said, I liked that the ending came fairly abruptly and it didn't end with a big dramatic "well, we'll never be bothered by this person ever again and we're free to continue with our normal lives because who cares about the small child we killed, we're white and we can get away with anything" vibe.
If you think the movie was average, probs don't read this because it's definitely worse.
I've found that I love Lois Duncan's writing style, her stories, and her hidden layers, but this one fell a bit short.
It's ironic since out of the stories I've read of hers, this is inferior, but it's the most popular because of the movie.The film, by the way, is much different.
As with the film, the sister of a character is unlikeable, maybe even more so in written form.
Even with the ending being an anticlimactic rush, it's a passable book, even if it's not one of Duncan's best.
I got this book because of the movie that I never watched. It seemed interesting, but reading the book made me feel so bored, I was positive that I would've actually turned into a board. That's how boring this book is.
I loved this guilty pleasure read. I thought it was different from the movie,but then again I couldn't really remember the movie. I think I was just in the mood for some mystery and silly suspense.
I Know What You Did Last Summer - audiobook  I wasn't a fan of this book at all. I didn't expect much to start with, I was just curious because I've seen the movie. Anyway, the voices the narrator did for certain characters were annoying. The characters themselves were flat and shallow and I didn't like any of them or care if (when) they died. There was very little to the plot and it ended too suddenly.
"I Know What You Did Last Summer" is about these 4 teenagers named Barry, Julie, Ray and Helen had all coped with one little secret they had tragically kept for their whole summer.
They need to outsmart the killer before all of them dies before they even know it."Ummm" was my first reaction after finishing this book.
In my opinion, I don't really like this book at all.
I am not a big fan of having teenagers trying to figure out who the killer was and undergo all of those crazy situations.
I never like those kinds of books.
I grabbed this at a used bookstore on a whim because I had no clue the movie was based on a book.
In my experience, horror stories do not transfer well to film sometimes, so I thought I would see if the book is any good.
It is actually worse than the movie.
Didn't think that was possible?
In this case, I don't think it was deliberate.
There were characters where the actual reason for one character not liking another was because they were 'dumpy and pudgy and not at all as pretty as her sister.' Anyway, not really worth reading unless you have nothing else to do with three hours.
I was not at all impressed with this book.
The movie was cheesy, but fun, but the book was just silly.
For one thing, none of the characters were likable; they just seemed like stereotypes of the different cliques we all knew in high school: the beauty, the jock, the brain, and the nice guy.
The four main characters were out partying and driving too fast, when a little boy on a bike suddenly appeared in the road ahead of them.
They hit the boy, and kept right on driving to save their own necks.
To be honest, I cared so little for the characters that it didn't matter
Yes, I saw the movie before I read the book, but I knew who Lois Duncan was, as I'd already read Daughters Of Eve and Killing Mr. Griffin and loved them.
(view spoiler)[In the book, two characters turn out to be the same person, but there's no way to translate that to film!
I enjoyed the movie as a throwback to 80s style horror, and the Sarah Michelle Gellar chase scene is a ripper!
(hide spoiler)] Plus, the movie didn't seem to stop her from continuing to sell the rights to her other books!
It’s been a year since Julie, Ray, Barry, and Helen accidentally killed a young boy.
But someone knows.
Someone, who is now sending the four teens threatening messages…Lois Duncan had been writing thrillers and horror stories since the mid-60s, but I Know What You Did Last Summer and the 1997 film adaptation shined the spotlight on her work and had teens passing her books around twenty-five years later.
For that reason, I Know What You Did Last Summer, is a classic book in the YA horror cannon.Read the full  I Know What You Did Last Summer  Review
I slogged through this disaster because of its short audio version. Just horrible -- excruciating and outdated. The bad guy was so obvious, I was sure it was a red herring. And they tried to "update" it for modern audiences by throwing in some cell phones (always on chargers or left behind), CD players (😂😂😂), a GPS and swapping out Vietnam for Iraq. So seriously, nauseatingly terrible.
Wow. I remember loving this book as a 7th grader. Oh, how my tastes have changed. It was so bad. Nothing happens: boring, boring, boring! The only interesting part is what everyone already knows about the story.
Not much to say to be honest, I think I may prefer her later books when I read them. I originally thought the book was from the late 80's, so when it was said Bud was an older guy who went to Vietnam, I was like "Daaaaamn, how much older?!"
I was disappointed that changes were made to make this book more modern! Trying to update this book with mentions of email, texting, and the Iraq war (instead of Vietnam) really didn't work. The world view, etc. is too deeply seventies. It would have been more fun to read the original.
Great horror book for anyone who loves mysteries and horror combined!
Though she penned many other novels, some targeted at teens (Killing Mr. Griffin, Stranger with My Face, etc.) and some meant for kids (most significantly Hotel for Dogs, which was also made into a major motion picture), I Know What You Did Last Summer may endure as Lois Duncan's signature work.
Panicked that some individual has evidently become aware of the shameful coverup she and her three friends have longed to forget yet know deep down they never will, Julie goes to Barry, Helen and Ray with the cryptic warning she received, to see how they want to handle the situation.
I didn't even know the movie was based on a book until the author died a couple years ago. While it is technically a YA novel, it doesn't read as one. What I mean is, the language isn't juvenile and it didn't want me to tear my hair out like the last YA I tried to read. It's a quick story, with solid characters. My main problem is having seen the movie multiple times, I couldn't help but see Buffy as Helen and Jennifer Love Huge-Tits as Julie. Otherwise, I actually really enjoyed this. A perfect summer read!
dnf @ 60%boring and the characters suck
2.5
However as the book progressed I started to dislike most of the characters and I was just getting frustrated with them.
The first chapter I saw him, I kind of liked him, but as we started to learn more about him I just wanted him to be finished or gone as soon as possible.Helen was the second on the rank list for horrendous character.
(view spoiler)[Also, I wonder what parent doesn't make sure their kids bike is at least worthy of going out at night.
Eh, I saw it coming, and at a certain point was really sure about it, which kind of ruined the book further for me.The whole revenge thing?
I say based loosely as the film doesn't really have much to do with the book - whereas the film is much more in the 'horror' genre, the book is just a light thriller.It was originally written in 1973 but I read the newly revised edition published by Atom.
Unfortunately the book isn't as intense as the movie and I did find this a little disappointing as I do like to be scared and given the willies...It maybe because nowadays we are saturated with high levels of blood, gore and violence (which I have no problem with, being a horror fan) and 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' just seems lame in comparison.
