https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85416.Beyond_the_Pleasure_Principle_and_Other_Writings

He may have been sexually obsessed and he may even have, erroneously in my opinion, taken a different tack than William James on a similar issue, but this particular principle I am going to recount seems to me both valid and important.Freud perceived that, given any organic process, the initiation of action is the result of unsettled tension.
That position has come to be known as the Pleasure Principle.The important concept in the present work under description (though I confess that I read this in my Great Books volume of Freud rather than one of the separate editions available elsewhere) is that observation that what may be pain for one system may be pleasure for another.
Driven as I was by class requirements and the fortuitous discovery of affordable editions in used bookstores, I did not read Freud's works in the order of their publication.
This was unfortunate as is revealed in my meagre appropriation of Beyond the Pleasure Principle, the book in which Freud introduced his hypothesis of a death instinct.As I read it, the postulation of a death instinct seemed an unnecessary extension of psychoanalytic theory driven by author's wish to develop a psychological model correlative to biophysical ones.
Beyond the Pleasure Principle is shockingly bleak.
The idea of the pleasure principle as the desire to reduce stimuli and relieve tension naturally lends itself to the absolute absence of experience that is death.
This is countered by Eros which is the impulse to revert not as far back as non-existence, but to an earlier biological stage through reproduction.
Eros and the death-drive that would later become Thanatos are very interesting, but they seem more like mysticism than psychology.
In fact, they're almost identical to the ideas of Love and Strife put forward by Empedocles in the 5th Century BC.
speculative mindblowing esssay
Sex drive. Death drive. Pretty pretty pretty good.
I have only read Beyond the Pleasure Principle (1920) and The Ego and the Id (1923), so take my review on the book for what it's worth.]--------------------------------------Up to World War I, Sigmund Freud had developed his theory on the human psyche into a coherent whole.
This basically says that life is composed of two spheres: there is the finite somatic sphere (i.e. our physical bodies that eventually die and disappear) and there is the infinite germ sphere (i.e. our DNA is immortal; we pass it on to our offspring, etc.).Freud, wanting to offer a scientific theory of dual drives – the death drive and the sex drive - , tries to look for the evolutionary origin of the sex drive, since this (as opposed to the natural death drive) has to be explained.
In opposition to this, he posits an EVEN MORE PRIMAL drive toward self-annihilation -- the "death instinct." The latter propels us toward a state of inorganic stasis, free from the psychic disruptions of the external world (think Hamlet's "slings and arrows").The details are jumbled and there's even a partial retraction towards the end (reiterated in Freud's private correspondence), but at least he reckons seriously with the question: why do human beings engage in self-destructive behavior?
If only the same intellectual courage could be attributed to the neuro-economists, hedonic psychologists, and evolutionary biologists who currently exert such a stranglehold on the human sciences.
Somehow arrives at a nascent theory of the 'death instincts' through a strange combination of contemporary biological knowledge and his empirical clinical findings. For example, he spends ample time discussing protista and their apparent ability to replicate without degenerating as if there was some close correlation between this and human behavior. The book is interesting, if only because one can see the seeds of Lacanian concepts like the mirror stage and the symbolic.
I was sort of dumbfounded by all the pseudo-science in the latter half of the book, but I guess that's what you get playing with Freud. Anyway, this is a great read and an important one in understanding maybe the most enigmatic of Freud's theories, the death drive. Great discussion of compulsive repetition and transference also.
This book deals with psychoanalysis proper. He outlines his theory of psychosexual development and his tripartite mind idea in this book completely.This is the only book of its kind, and a necessary read if you practice psychology, even as an armchair psychologist.
I had always been a bit queasy about reading Freud,partly due to his writings having been discredited by the so called modern advancements in psychoanalysis and partly due to the puritanical moral policing we often witness around us.It was after watching this brilliant Netflix series Mindhunters which is premised upon Thanatos that I decided to give Beyond the Pleasure Principle a read and I must say that I am totally intrigued by the myriad applications of the concept discussed in this 'un-Freudian'essay,in our everyday life.
"Consciousness arise in the place of the memory trace.""An instinct would be a tendency innate in living organic matter impelling it towards the reinstatement of an earlier condition"In fact this book shows why Sigmund Freud is one of the brightest minds ever
If you put aside the pseudoscience and preoccupation with sex (not that I disagree with all of his points along these lines), there is a lot of meat on these bones.
why does the infant cry
The 1920 twist. He changed all of his theory in one book. Incredible.
His theorization is light, palpable, and provides a way in for us to find coherency around the distortion.
We get a sense of the distortion inherent within there being an unconscious in how language is deployed, deferred and altered.
While much of psychoanalysis's variable positions are untestable (who is the father figure and so on) none the less, we get a sense of the method involved.Psychoanalysis is a technocractic tool to normalize people from the point of view of the state.
All of his theoretical positions center the subject around the desired "normal" modality.
This is the book where Freud first propounded the death instinct or the desire to return to a simpler state of organization i.e. destructive impulse.
This book is Freud's grappling of the horror of World War I which had ended shortly before writing this book.
Is Freud right about a death wish lying in people, probably not the way he describes.
I don't subscribe to Freudian Psycho-analysis or hold to close his theories of the mind but I will say he was on to something when he hit upon the death instinct.
This is one of those books that reminds me why I have a love and hate relationship with Freud.
So the last half, in my opinion, of this book reads like junk science.And yet, when Freud is right, well, it's impressive.
His conceptualization of repression, in my opinion, is right on.
Did I say that I have a love and hate relationship with Freud?Ultimately, I have to say that this is one of the most intriguing works written by Freud and he makes some interesting points, but perhaps, one should take hos work with a grain of salt.
Freud delves into the psyche to uncover the death drive and destructive impulses that seek to negate eros, or the life drive.
This work explores the tension and turmoil within us, the dualistic tendencies and the opposition at work.
At one turn humans can be narcissistic and then later in love with the object, at once fighting to survive and then wanting to return to the inanimate state we came from (the womb).
Often criticized for his single-mindedness, this work proves only that his approach is a brave, albeit pessimistic one.
Freud is not afraid to explore the morbid, austere and tragic Shakespearean unconscious.
Freud says that we all have a deep rooted instinct driving us to turn back into inanimate objects.
He calls it the death drive.
This all evolved from the first moment of life, in which he admits something "incomprehensible" must have happened, in which some inanimate piece of matter became animate and then immediately had an instinct to reverse this new development by dying.
Freud admits he's out on a limb here, but he suggests that future generations will study the death instinct and uncover all the ways our desire to die influences every aspect of our psychology.
The first of many of Freud's works that I read. Some of the ideas are outdated, but the thought and insights always rewarding. This isn't quite a successful theoretical book, as I think Freud here keeps running into unexpected detours and finally doesn't really prove what he set out to -- and yet the passage to get there is so filled with fascinating insights and speculation that it's riveting, even on a second and third reading.
I never knew that I would become the kind of person who seriously would read Freud and talk about him and use him (!) as evidence for a portion of my thesis on Austerlitz. But yeah, this was fascinating! I think he's really onto something with the whole pleasure principle-death drive thing, especially when we're talking about shields and shells and traumatic repetitions. The protozoa pseudo scientific jargon was total BS, though.
Not his most entertaining work, but fascinating and quite readable all the same. Freud here introduces the "compulsion to repeat" (that's what y'all do when you keep dating the same type of loser over and over again) & the death drive (the explication of which is actually pretty vague and confusing).
I have taught this book several times along with Civilization and Its Discontent. This is a good primer for Freud's theory of different types of drives and the underlying economy of pleasure and pain that animates human motivation and ultimately leads a desire for final exhaustion,or death.
I only give this a poor rating b/c I didn't not understand a lot of it since I'm not familiar with a lot of the terms. However, it provides an extremely valuable view about trauma and human behavior and motivations. But I will definitely have to reread it.
Read for a Childhood and Trauma seminar. Freud is far more interesting and useful if read as fiction. Finally understand the death drive.
What intrigues me about this book are the ways in which Freud discovers the origins of the death instinct in a well-reasoned, scientific argument about the beginnings of life.
Sempre relendo
There are some interesting points in this work, but there's a lot of surrounding text to wade through first.
