https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113326.The_Kid
In The Kid, Savage details his decision to adopt a child with Terry, his boyfriend of less than two years.
And are he and Terry, who still have hissy fits over Bjork, willing to trade in a future of gay DINK-dom (Double Income, No Kids) for dirty diapers?Applying his signature no-bull, (genital) warts ‘n’ all advice to his own life, Savage comments on everything from gays in the military and group sex to whether or not to circumsize a baby male (“how,” he ponders, “will it taste to future lovers?”).As in his columns, Savage is subversive and informative, as well as read-aloud-to-your-friends funny.
Unfortunately, he also brings along his tendency to get sidetracked with political rants and his penchant for beating the same points into the ground over and over.I really enjoyed the majority of this book, which tells the story of Dan and his boyfriend trying to adopt a child, the whole nerve-wracking process from researching their legal options to musing over inseminating a lesbian couple to the agonizing wait for a birthparent to choose them to take her child.
As a huge supporter of gay adoption/gay rights in general, this book instantly appealed.
If Dan seems preachy sometimes it's only because we live in a society which refuses to let go of the whole gay issue - their sexuality must be near the forefront of the minds of gays and lesbians practically all of the time.
All he wants is to live his life and start a family with the man he loves, without worrying about discrimination and bigotry.Dan and Terry's fears that no one would choose them to adopt their baby were touching.
I don't have children, I don't want children, and I have a lot of general disdain for the prevalence of bad parenting and people who stumble into parenting as an inevitable next step rather than a reasoned choice.
I just get exasperated, though, by a lot of things that have to do with kids and parents.Which is all to say that for me to have read this book about a couple adopting a newborn baby had all kinds of potential to make me roll my eyes, but the fact that it did not, not even once, is a testament to the talents of Mr. Savage.
I liked that although Savage is writing partly for straight people, he doesn't shy away from explicit references to gay sex.The book meanders, as if Savage thought it might be his only chance to say certain things.
It's good original analysis, though, so I'm not complaining.When it comes time to write about the birth mother and the social workers who helped with the adoption, Savage becomes more guarded.
Even though I'm a lesbian, or maybe especially because I'm a lesbian, I have certain stereotypes about gay men, and it's been hard for me to understand why 2 men want to adopt a baby.
This was such a sweet and funny, and a little sad, but mostly really, really happy adoption story. I really like the writing style and I appreciated how frank the author is about his experience.
I've been on an adoption memoir binge lately, but this is the first memoir I've read about open adoption, and I adored it.
It's obvious that he and Terry considered every aspect the adoption would have on them, the kid, the birth parents, and the rest of their family and friends--as well as the societal implications.
I really enjoyed that it focused so much on the adoption process: the paperwork, invasive questions/testing, and back-and-forth with the agency and birth mother.
I'd recommend this to anyone curious/going through the adoption process as it will make you laugh, cry, and hopefully understand more about open adoption.
I suppose I should say I mostly enjoyed this book despite it being written by Dan Savage.
I've never been a fan of his style, his perpetuation of many gay male stereotypes, and his philosophy that cheating is A-OK and possibly inevitable.
I think this book could have benefited from a good editor.ETA: I should add that in the time since I've read this book, Dan Savage has said so many misogynistic, transphobic, biphobic, and generally asinine things that I can understand why his attitude in this book bugged me.
Not a fan.
Enjoyable but not life-changing. An informative, entertaining, and worthwhile read.
Dan Savage and his boyfriend decide to adopt a kid, and Savage takes us through all the subsequent paperwork, counseling, doctor appointments, and freakouts.Savage often comes off as blunt and uncaring in his weekly sex advice column, but this shows his tender underbelly -- the Dan that loves his boyfriend and is excited about having a kid and who worries a lot, about everything.
Savage doesn't censor himself and I love that about him.
I love his honesty, his unfailing ability to call out hypocrisy, and he brings that honesty to the adoption process.
I suspect the common convertion of wit to acronym (as an easy method to carry over the joke over a while) would be lost on most people who don't know that aspect of anglophone lingual habits.I learnt a fair amount about open adoptions and I appreciated Dan's repeated warning that his partner and him did not have a common experience.
His non-judgement/harm reduction take on Melissa was refreshing as was his challenge of the abilism/paranoia others expressed on people with AFS.I'm glad I read it even though it was no literal work of genius.
When Dan wrote this, a gay male couple adopting a baby (with relative ease and almost no wait -- pure fate) was like earning your PhD in Homo Studies. I was in awe of them then, and I'm in awe now (still -- D.J.'s all grows up). Great, funny book about a momentous process. Made it all seem modern and okay for so many people.
Though I'm giving this book a 4-star rating, I feel I should mention a small caveat. I actually listened to this book on audible read by Dan Savage himself. Since I'm already a fan of the author's Savage Love podcast, I think this made it a much more enjoyable "read!" I highly recommend the audiobook!
An inside look at the open adoption experience of a gay couple about fifteen years ago. Well-written, down to earth account of the pluses and minuses of an open adoption process and the challenges that this couple faced, told honestly and humorously. The language is often explicit.
I DON'T CARE WHAT THIS BOOK IS ABOUT, DAN SAVAGE IS A RACIST, TRANSPHOBIC, BIPHOBIC, POMPOUS, ASSHOLE AND THEREFORE EVERYTHING HE DOES IS TERRIBLE AND GROSS THE END
My BFF Lydia recommended this audio book to me when I visited her in the States in early October, and as my husband and I are trying to get me pregnant, I figured it could be pretty topical.In this book, Dan relates what happened when he and his then boyfriend (now husband, as far as I'm aware) decided to adopt a child together, at a time and a place where gay adoption was not always a popular choice.
Savage wrote the book in 1999, and as I knew full well from reading his columns and listening to his podcasts that he has a kid, there was never any element of suspense or surprise as to whether he and Terry would be successful in their adoption.
But this book featured the word "cock" far too much for this married heterosexual midwestern mom (even though I consider myself liberal).Dan Savage is a sex columnist from Seattle, and his column was left in the lunchroom at work frequently when I worked in Portland, OR.
They also find a birth mother rather quickly, and put up with her quirks as well as the risk of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome and the fight over the baby's name.Parts were quite funny, as when Savage said that his father's insistence on having sex with Savage's mother while she was pregnant with him pretty much made him gay, since he got used to having a cock shoved in his face even before birth.
i guess the title of this book is fairly self-explanatory: it's all about sex columnist dan savage & his boyfriend adopting a child together.
i felt kind of sorry for the birth mother, just because it seemed like she'd had a pretty rough time of things & finding herself knocked up was probably not something she was psyched about, but i liked the way dan addressed the issue of the birth mother having used drugs before she knew she was pregnant, & how dan & his boyfriend came to the decision to adopt the child even though there was a slim possibility that it might have complications because of her drug use.
Dan Savage's hilarious, touching, sometimes surprising story of their adoption of DJ is can't-put-down reading.
I'd love to hand this to several people I know who are on the fence about gay parents, but his language would stop them before they even got started.
The word he uses most often to describe gays is one that would have some of my friends putting the book down before the end of the first chapter.
But I still wish he'd write something that I could hand to my more conservative friends, because I love, love, love this book.
The real issues are reflected, but also deflected in such a way that while you understand the horrors and frustrations experienced, you are presented with them in a way that both challenges views and gives you a chance to laugh them off.
This book is not just about political issues...in fact, I was only subtly aware of them in the first place.
Instead of focusing on exclusively gay issues, Savage tackles all major areas of life, providing laughs along the way with his snarky and sharp humor.
Savage presents relationships, sex, adoption, careers, and life in such a genuine reality.
Very much enjoyed reading of the relationship growing between Dan, Terry and Melissa, the homeless teen who is part of their open adoption.
I did think the sections talking about the current situation of adoption, the ability of gay couples to adopt and have children together did get a bit overbearing.
If he was hoping to open up someone's eyes and heart who didn't share such views, I don't think this book would do it.
But readers should read his next book "The Commitment" to see how their son has grown up:)
Finished this book this morning.
I had only 20 pages left and wanted to read so it was the first thing I did.
Yes it was a very interesting book.
One thing that surprised me was his language.
I liked it!
Did not expect that from an American writer.
lol.
It was interesting to see how the open adoption go's and also to read about the gay men's view.Now I am going to read book 2.
so glad Joanna offered this as a 2 offer in the swap.
Reading this review I think I meant he was using swear words.
Touching, snarky and utterly charming! I defy you not to turn into a pool of goo after reading this. Dan Savage, who, as ever, makes a refreshingly blunt narrator, takes us through his experience of adopting a kid from a homeless "gutter-punk". He doesn't pull any punches and addresses the politics and the iss-ues while remaining disarmingly personal (and personable) about the whole process.I am a cold-hearted, cynical person who doesn't want kids for a very long time (thankyouverymuch), but I loved this book.
Dan Savage is the writer of the sex-column, Savage Love. In this book, we get to see a different side of him as he and his boyfriend take a major step to adopt a child. The story is humorous and gives some interesting insight into the open adoption process. It was also interesting to hear about adoption from the aspect of a gay couple as the process can often prove more difficult for same sex couples than hetero couples.
this was another book john brought along for me to puerto rico and was read pool side. i hope i'm not biased remembering these lovely spring break reads. this book re-opened my eyes to the myriad prejudices and injustices that gay and lesbian couples face when adopting and parenting in the US. dan's story of he and his boyfriend terry was so great and was really inspiring and made me want to punch conservative politicians in the nuts so they would stop having conservative babies.
Even though the legal landscape has changed so much in the past 15 years, this book still remains so relevant. I really appreciate Dan Savage's humor and this really humanized what can feel like a very overwhelming process.
P good.
Didn't make it past the "fat people shouldn't be allowed in public" rant on page 38.
1. Adopt a child is very difficult. 2. Personally, only my point of view, he sounds quite glib.
A perfect book. So great and moving.
