https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1949253.Giant_s_Bread
Ευτυχώς που η Αγκαθα Κρίστι έγινε Αγκαθα Κρίστι και το έριξε στα crime novels γιατί ως Mary Westmacott δε μπορώ να πω ότι το συγγραφικό στυλ που ακολουθεί με καλύπτει , ούτε ότι οι ιστορίες που διαλέγει να καταγράψει έχουν κάτι πραγματικά πολύ σπουδαίο για να πουν στον αναγνώστη.
Για να είμαι ειλικρινής μέσα από την περίληψη του βιβλίου είχα λίγο φαντασιωθεί ότι θα διάβαζα ένα κάποιο ρομαντικό βιβλίο με κάποιες δόσεις μυστηρίου και εντάξει το να διαβάσεις κάτι άλλο και να ναι καλό προσπερνάς τις αρχικές σου προσδοκίες όμως το όλο στόρυ εξελίχθηκε σ’ ένα ατελείωτο μάδημα μαργαρίτας μ ‘αγαπάει δε μ’ αγαπάει, να τον παντρευτώ για να πάρω τον πλούσιο εισοδηματία το οποίο ειλικρινά με κούρασε.
His sheltered childhood in the home he loves has not prepared Vernon for the harsh reality of his adult years, and in order to write the great masterpiece of his life, he has to make a crucial decision with no time left to count the cost..."Misleading in the way that it doesn't become clear until the very end what sacrifices and crucial decision it's referring to and that those are only a small part of the story.
But throughout the 4 books that make up the story, we also follow part of other characters lives and in that way, see Vernon in a different light.
I thought that the book was horrifying and the characters were so abstract and cruel.
Christie, Westmacott, had really captured the feelings and indecisions in a human life.
The characters were very...human.
The characters were so indecisive and annoying, yet truthful and beautiful.
But then they were stupid, which is exactly human.Uhm, on a more analytical note, the characters and their stories were wonderfully woven throughout the book.
But Agatha Christie is a genius and I can come up with my own speculations, however vague they may be.I would definitely recommend this book to people who enjoy the psychological aspect of stories and the more analytical type of reading.
However, I have to say I really didn't like it.Under her own guise of Christie and her crime novels, it is accepted that she doesn't develop her characters, who we don't really get to know very well and who often appear to be shallow.
Unfortunately, our author is a mistress of cariacaturising the human personality - here, she takes the ugliest facet of each character and accentuates it, despite the fact that our cast often behave in ways that prove they have more redeeming features.
Agatha Christie + high melodrama involving a world war and the art world = totally enjoyable if ridiculous. The writing is just fantastic, though; I loved loved loved the first part, which is from the perspective of a small child.
Her understanding of human nature just takes my breath away every time I read her books.If you have read my earlier review of another one of Westmacott’s (The Burden) then you will perhaps know in detail why I wanted to read her books in the first place and what I think of the books in general.
I got the distinct impression that Christie was working through a lot of her personal issues on the page, so while the insights were fascinating, there was also a weight of catharsis that made it slow going in spots.
The anti-Semitism that runs rampant throughout Golden Age mysteries gets talked about a lot, but so far in my (re-)reading of the Christie oeuvre, I'm seeing a very different take on how she treats Jewish characters.
It's clear that Christie likes the Levinnes and is unhappy about the discrimination they are forced to suffer at the hands of less progressive characters.
Yet Christie uses some really offensive stereotypes in describing the Levinnes and other Jewish characters.
I think this book just broke my heart a bit.
Όλο το βιβλίο ήταν ΧΩΡΙΣ ΔΕΚΑΡΑ ΠΩΣ ΘΑ ΠΑΝΤΡΕΥΤΟΥΜΕ ΜΑΝΩΛΙΟ ΜΟΥ ;
Τα μυθιστορήματα αυτά, λοιπόν, έφεραν και στη χώρα μας οι εκδόσεις Διόπτρα, μέσα από μια εξαιρετικά προσεγμένη σειρά που, πραγματικά, αποτελεί κόσμημα για την βιβλιοθήκη, όχι μόνο όσων αγαπούν την Christie, αλλά και για όσους έχουν την ευκαιρία να την ανακαλύψουν για πρώτη φορά.Διαβάζοντας "Το θηρίο στο πιάνο", έπιασε αρκετές φορές τον εαυτό μου να σκέφτεται πως πολλά απ' όσο συνέβαιναν σε αυτό ήταν ακραία, υπερβολικά βίαια, με τους χαρακτήρες να καταφεύγουν σε σχεδόν απάνθρωπες αποφάσεις και όλα αυτά, προκειμένου, κατά μία έννοια, να διατηρηθεί ζωντανό ένα όνειρο, να μείνει άσβεστη μία επιθυμία.
The first of Christie's six romantic "straight" novels, this is a nicely wrought, well-plotted - if extremely sentimental and typical of the period - story of a Victorian genteel boyhood, The World War and its effects on one man and some of his friends, and their growth into true adulthood in the 1920s.
Many of the characters are nearly stock - the ugly but brilliant (and wealthy) best friend, the extraordinarily beautiful (but vapid) girl-next-door who simply must marry a wealthy man, The Heroine who is a True Artiste, a woman of many talents - she tries to go through life unattached except for Her Art but falls in love with Vernon, and Vernon himself, a rule-bound, quite stereotypical almost-a-hero of the period who finally Does The Right Thing.
Vernon is "a genius", but are we supposed to applaud his sacrifice of all in favor of music?
(hide spoiler)] Sebastion is a respectable character in that he lives his life how he wants to live it, regardless of what anybody else thinks, but he's terribly lonely.
I'm not sure, but I feel like the author wants the reader to not like Nell, to be against her.
All in all it's hard to know what the author's message is in this book.
Are we supposed to condemn Vernon for the way he treats the people in his life?
It's mentioned in the introduction that Christie wrote this book and several others under the pen name Westmacott to prove herself as a versatile and talented writer, and I think she did pretty good job!Technically SpeakingSet in the early twentieth century, Westmacott's Giant's Bread is about a musical genius named Vernon Deyre.
(hide spoiler)] There were also several very interesting love triangles including this one.Again, at times I felt the story moved too slow at certain parts but certainly not so much as to make me put the book down.
I'd say my favourite portion was Book One, about Vernon Deyre's life at his palatial childhood home Abbots Puissants.
The rest of the novel leads us to that opening night: how did such an opera come to be written?Our story follows Vernon Deyre, a “poor little rich” boy, who is raised with everyone money can buy and very few of the things money can’t.
In my mind, this book would have been much better if the characters had instead learned to recognize and overcome their deficiencies, instead of being destroyed by them.I intend to read at least one more of her novels, but honestly, if it’s as depressing of a ride as this one, I may skip the rest!
I remember thinking it was a bit odd for me to read the first time, just because there was some humour in there, especially in Vernon's childhood, that surprised me for La Christie.
Vernon was, to my mind, a pretty terrible and ignorant man, and I guess in the way of most geniuses, he really did have blinders on, but there was no need for the cruelty he showed, ignorantly or not.The book did make me think semi-profound thoughts though, and I do remember being so excited the first time, and yes, this time that I read it, because I had read all my other Christie books so many times.
Giant's Bread was the first novel (1930) Agatha Christie wrote under her nom de plume "Mary Westmacott".
It tells the life story of Vernon Deyer as he follows his destiny to become a composer, and the choices he makes along the way.As is often with Christie's mysteries, Giant's Bread is a story of psychology, of what makes a person "tick", and it is a powerful story.
The reader knows from the beginning that Deyer will write his masterpiece, but following his path to that point was emotional and intriguing.
I had already read another book by Mary Westmacott - Unfinished Portrait - that had disappointed me, so when I started this one I thought it was going to be more of the same.The first part wasn't spectacular and - I have to say - a bit boring but fortunately it got better and I was able to enjoy it.
As for the characters I don't think they were particularly fascinating and I didn't connect with them - I was just reading about them and their lives but I wasn't as invested as I normally am.The book was alright, far from brilliant, but it had a story with a couple elements that were good enough to grab my attention.
A non-mystery (a romance, in fact) from the great mystery writer.
Not finished with it yet, but am far enough along to see that the writing is very good.
Strikingly human characters, making strikingly human mistakes with their lives.
Not your typical, contrived romance novel, and I'm not sure how it's going to end.Ok, I've now finished it and can confirm that I could not have predicted the ending, despite the fact that the entire thing is a flashback.
But the characters are extremely well drawn and the story engaging, even haunting.
Not sure "romance" is really a fair description of this book's genre.
Sembra un romanzo rosa, ma non lo è affatto!!! E' il romanzo di una grande passione... per la musica, che brucerà letteralmente la vita di Vernon e gli farà sacrificare qualsiasi cosa in nome dell'arte. Ma detto così è davvero poco: l'abilità della Christie è nel tratteggiare personaggi interessanti, approfonditi e realistici, molto più che nei romanzi gialli. La lettura è piacevolissima e scorrevole.Vorrei che "Mary Westmacott" avesse scritto molto di più. Chissà cosa ne sarebbe potuto uscire!
Another Mary Westmacott story that I read, and another story that left me feeling awful. I really, really need a happy ending ~ or at least one that is satisfactory and I never felt that with any of Dame Agatha Christie's Westmacott books.Sad but true.* * * * * *Yeah, and the star? That's my feelings about the book and nothing about how well-written it was. I know a lot of people who would absolutely LOVE any of Mary Westmacott stories... I'm just not one of them.
It started well, but ended in a melodramatic mash-up of Ayn Rand and Charles Dickens. Disappointing.
Good, but different from her (Agatha Christies) crime novels. This is said to be a romance but I prefer relationship drama.
Good, but different from her (Agatha Christie´s) crime novels. This is said to be a romance but I prefer relationship drama.
This was a very intense, profound book! Some of the characters were annoying but overall very intriguing relationships between all of them.

When Agatha Christie took up the pseudonym of Mary Westmacott she temporarily shed her passion for all things criminal and channeled her profound understanding of the various nuances of human nature into the lives and stories of men and women who do not have the additional burden of a dead body in the offing.
His genius combined with his unstable nature has unexpected and devastating consequences for his friends and family.Christie's achievement lies in her treatment and development of every individual character in the novel, which is a sheer delight to read.
While this like everything else Agatha Christie wrote is not difficult to read - she has a great voice and I love the way she delves into the characters and their feelings.
It's not even that these characters have tragic flaws, because that is not unique to these tales, it's more the small glimpses that these characters get into their selves, the self-reflection that I feel deeply should result in growth.
I want to believe that there is always hope.
I want to believe that self awareness translates into positive momentum, but the truth is that this is not necessarily the case.
What I haven't seen in other reviews here, which surprises me, is that this book is very, very anti-Semitic.
It is not its main cut-and-thrust, which perhaps is even more chilling, but its description of all Jewish characters and their motivations is frankly disgusting.
Despite that, there is a subtlety to the characters and if you assumed you knew where she was going with each one's journey, you were often proved wrong.
But I really did not love it, for the story itself or, as I have said, the blatant prejudice.You come across the odd tinge of anti-Semitism in other Agatha Christie books, but here it is enmeshed, and it's horrible.
I don't know what I expected when I learned that Agatha Christie had written 6 romance novels earlier in her writing career using the pseudonym Mary Westmacott.
All I knew for sure is that I had to purchase them and read them in the order in which they were written.I have finished reading "Giant's Bread" and it was a truly incredible reading experience.
There is a poignancy to the experiences through the years of WWI that bring an unexpected impact.
I am looking forward to reading the next romance titled, "Unfinished Portrait."Don't miss reading more about the novels by Christie's daughter, Rosalind Hicks...https://www.agathachristie.com/about-...

A tangled tale of love, loss and heartache.Vernon, his cousin Joe and his friend Sebastian have alwa
