https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21611.The_Forever_War
Mandella will return from missions to find that humanity has changed so much that he has almost nothing in common with the rest of the people, and since he manages to survive several campaigns when almost everyone else dies, he’s quickly becoming one of the oldest men in the universe during his ten year (subjective) enlistment.Another quirk of the time differences is that when the humans meet the Taurans, they can’t know if they’re battling alien troops who are centuries ahead or behind them in terms of military intelligence and weapons technology.
When he reaches the end of his career, thousands of years have passed and he does not even speak the same language as his fellow citizens and the war he signed up for is ancient history.Haldeman, himself a Vietnam War veteran, brings an empathetic perspective to his futuristic warrior portrayal.Thought provoking and original, this is a MUST for science fiction fans.************* 2016 Reread.Reading this again, I think for the third time, reaffirmed my love for this book.
Reading after a couple of decades (the first time in HS, and then again only a couple years later in college) I see more of Haldeman's subtle humor.I can also see, from a 2016 perspective, how this could be seen as homophobic.
I enjoyed following a main character struggling to adapt to the changes on Earth while he's at war.
2 years for him end up being 26 on Earth due to time relativity.
To me a classic has to survive the test of time and this book did not age well.
Like at all.I understand that some parts of the book are there to show us that the main character is "old fashioned" compare to others but oh my was this a frustrating read......then unleashed Stargate's eighteen sex-starved men on our women, compliant and promiscuous by military custom (and law), but desiring nothing so much as sleep...I...
In case any movie producers are listening in, ten reasons to film The Forever War:1. Gratuitous sex and nudity.2. Social relevance (it's about Vietnam, stoopid!)3. Evil aliens.4. General relativity.5. Wormholes. Interstellar, Joe Haldeman was here first!6. Freaky high-tech zone where you can only fight with swords.7. Unexpected twist! (view spoiler)[The evil aliens actually turn out to be good aliens. (hide spoiler)]8. Hive minds.9. Feel-good happy ending.10. Gratuitous sex and nudity.
Yeaahhhh! I'm ready for some hard science fiction!Look! I got my glasses on all serious-like.
While it reminded me of Heinlein's Starship Troopers and Avatar (especially the beginning where recruits are told about all the things that could kill them and how they likely wouldn't make it back alive), Haldeman's Forever War takes a different turn.
Haldeman's book focuses on a soldier fighting an interstellar war.
Because our character is traveling to his battles at near-light speed, when he returns to earth between missions, decades pass.
Haldeman speculates about the social changes taking place, changes that our character has difficulty adapting to or fully accepting.
Despite social changes, there is one constant; the war continues.
Haldeman's book still resonates.
I bought and read this book based upon the many glowing reviews I saw on the internet.
It's heralded as a classic and one of the best Sci-Fi books of all time.
The exact same thing kept happening over and over again.
Boring Battle, many people die.
Repeat.There were long, long stretches where just nothing happened.
Also, the character development was just non-existent.
In fact, even the battles with the aliens were dull and lifeless.The protagonist is barely developed.
And for half the book he has his pick of any woman he wants and apparently has sex almost every night.
Catch-22 is often cited as one of the great books about the futility and inherent paradoxes of war.
I think this is easily its equal, but is often overlooked because it is dismissed as "just" science fiction.By using the tropes of SF, Haldeman vividly illustrates not only the psychological effects on the combatants, but also the desperate disassociation wrought between the "soldiers" and the rest of society - his reference point was the Vietnam veterans, but it could apply anywhere and anywhen.
There are some moments of genuine horror too, especially when you start to understand what the narrator is telling you.
This is hard sci-fi military space opera and I haven't even seen any of the Star Wars movies, or Star Treks, and only a handful of Doctor Who episodes (I only found out last year what a TARDIS is).
Another thing about the ending:(view spoiler)[when it comes to the *why* the Forever War went on forever, I was a little bit underwhelmed.
The question I will leave you with is: it's been 40 years (800 by time dilation standards) -- when do we get the movie???["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
What would it really be like to fight a war with an alien race across the vast reaches of space?
So for the main character who was born in 1997, he returns from the war in 3143 having aged only a few years but the world he knows is no longer there.
The main character will go out on a mission and come back and find all this new technology waiting.
Finally, character development: William Mandella is the main character and other than having a high I.Q. and also being physical fit you never really learn anything about him.
Which brings me to the reread in print format, The Forever War often crops up in “favorite sf books” discussions and I feel as if I haven’t really read it and this won’t do.
This book is more of an exploration of the nature and principles of warfare than about details of battles (though there is some of that also); basically it is an anti-war novel.The book I finished reading just before starting this reread of The Forever War is Brave New World, it is interesting to compare the two as sci-fi books.
However, what I also got was an amazing mixture of science and societal evolution that made the fighting even more entertaining and the story as a whole well worthy of its “One of the Best Sci-fi Novels of All Time” tags.The story follows along behind a young man named William Mandella, who finds himself “drafted” into the world’s military force to fight an unknown enemy from deep space.
What was even more amazing, however, is the story of the evolution of Mandella’s Earth, as this societal change turns him from a normal, red-blooded, twentieth-century man into a fossil of an age long gone.
You just had to have a good idea and you could write a classic!
There are future societies, each more ridiculous than the last (my favorite bit of ridiculousness: in the future, tobacco is illegal because it's a waste of farmland, which, fine, but marijuana is distributed free by many governments, because -- I guess it does not require growing?) There's a plot that is barely coherent and a war no one, including the author, gives a single shit about.
(view spoiler)[The women in this book are supposed to be equal.
(hide spoiler)]So. Just to be sure no one ever feels they have to read this amazingly awful classic, I'm going to spoil absolutely everything of value about this book.
When I found out after reading this book that Haldeman was badly wounded in Vietnam I wasn’t surprised – he writes war in a way I have very rarely seen in SF, less pew-pew!/Kaboom!, and more understanding of the pain and suffering, both physical and otherwise, that soldiers go through.Haldeman’s novel equals Heinlein’s classic in its social observations and intellectual heft, but in my opinion The Forever War is a more empathetic work, engendering genuine pathos for Mandella and his comrades.
3.5 stars
This is obviously a classic in the realms of sci-fi and of anti-war novels, and another book with thousands of reviews that I can't improve upon, but I'll just offer a couple of insights.One of the primary concepts from the book is the main character returning from space travel (complete with Spacial Relativity) to an Earth that was completely foreign to him; it was a massive dose of culture shock which progressed deeper and deeper the further the story went.
I was in the US Air Force for 22 years, and can say without a doubt that returning to the US after a 4-year overseas assignment to the Philippines, that this type culture shock is a real thing.
In “The Forever War,” the concept is turbo-charged as we follow the travels of William Mandella between Stargate and phenomena called Collapsars (what we today would refer to as a black hole) and distant planets where a war with the Taurans rages for thousands of Earth years.The novel is broken down into the parts of Mandella’s life as he ascends from a foot soldier to a leader in the United Nations Exploratory Force (UNEF), which was assembled for war against the Taurans.
Hey! This is not about American intervention in the Middle East! Really!!!
It messes with the protagonist's life, makes military strategy interesting in that your enemy could suddenly have weaponry far more advanced that you (or just as likely could be carrying sticks), and it gives the story a far-reaching feel.2.
I kept thinking that Haldeman knows what he's talking about, both in terms of the military elements, for good reason obviously, and in terms of the science.
The reader needs to feel like the writer knows more than him and that box is triple checked.4.
Like a good military campaign, Haldeman gets in and gets out.Really enjoyed this.
îngrozitoare a devenit lumea în câteva zeci de ani: alimentele au fost raționalizate astfel încât majoritatea oamenilor primesc doar atâtea calorii cât să nu moară de foame, locurile de muncă au dispărut, șomajul este generalizat, bătrânii nu mai au parte de îngrijire medicală, caracteristicile indezirabile (cum ar fi orice sentiment de revoltă împotriva războiului) ale populației sunt corectate la vârste fragede dar totuși străzile sunt bântuite de tâlhari înarmați, nu mai exista locuințe personale, iar întreagă economie terestră a devenit dependentă de război.Străini într-o lume străină, mai înfiorătoare decât războiul, Mandella și Marygay se întorc în FENU și se afundă din nou într-un conflict ce va depăși un mileniu.
Told in the first-person perspective of William Mandella, The Forever War is not just a story about war and death or the dystopic concepts of harmony, progress and social change that have always been essential to any grim science fiction novel.
This was really well-done in the book; Haldeman has given us a harrowing depiction of Mandella's struggle to fit in in an ever-changing world that always seem to leave him behind as he's stuck in a continuous loop of soul-crushing military service with little to no hope for a normal, well-balanced life.The Forever War is a highly sophisticated science fiction novel that happens to be only the first book of a series.
In a way in the end this is more an "anti-war" book than a stand alone novel.
***************************************************(view spoiler)[In the end of this book after generations of war (the characters are able to fight much of it because of the time distortion involved in near light speed space travel), we and the alien enemy learn to communicate (finally) and both sides say, "why did you start this thing?" To which both sides answer, "us?
You started it!"The entire point of the book is that war is pointless...and in a way it is or can be.
It won the Hugo, Nebula, Locus and Ditmar Awards for Best SF novel back in 1975-6, and I knew it was a SF treatment of Joe Haldeman’s experiences as a soldier in the Vietnam War. So I was expecting something similar to films like Oliver Stone’s Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Brian De Palma’s Casualties of War (1989), Michael Cimino’s The Deer Hunter (1978), Hal Ashby’s Coming Home (1978), or a book like Neil Sheehan’s A Bright and Shining Lie, etc.
After completing The Forever War, I had to take a step back and think about what I’d just read.
Yeah, that part definitely resembles the war.I like the main character Haldeman created called William Mandella.
Too bad most of this book’s time is spent talking about the battles.
Women fight this war too.
The book is at its best when these two are together.So why did I stop to think about this book after it was over?
In my mind, Mandella becomes a man trapped by time.
Joe Haldeman saved the best for last.
I think I was a sophomore in high school when I first read this one; now, as then, I preferred it to that other classic of MilSF - Starship Troopers.
And even after a thousand years neither Earth nor the alien Taurans they are fighting know what the war is even about.
When his characters are mired in the rigors of war and military life, however, this novel earns its reputation as a classic - especially in the imaginative leaps Haldeman makes with each jump to the future.
The main character William Mandella is among the first recruits sent off to fight an alien species.
With each campaign that Mandella fights, his home planet changes until it is almost unrecognizable.
You can tell it was written at the close of Vietnam, as it speaks to the soldier's dilemma coming home from a divisive conflict.
But for the most part, the novel addresses timeless themes -- isolation, alienation, patriotism versus skepticism, and the possibility of love in a violent, unforgiving world.
The ending is haunting, and I found myself thinking about this novel for weeks after reading it.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. One of the best military science fiction novels ever written. Highlights the deep sense of alienation that soldiers can feel from the people they are sent to fight for. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!Winner: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1976)Winner: Nebula Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1976)Winner: Locus Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1976)
By the time you reach the battle, fight it, and return home, everyone you know has died of old age and the society you protected has evolved (or devolved) into something you don't recognize or particularly like.
The way Mandella views and experiences the changing of human society and social evolution when he returns home from a battle is what makes the book so special.
I didn't really buy this, but I do know that, for the purposes of the story, Mandella had to be a twentieth-century-born man, so that his reactions to the changing of society could be genuine.
Where Heinlein takes a positive look at war, Haldeman uses his experience with the Vietnam war to paint a more dismal picture, not that this was the point that makes Starship Troopers my favorite of the two.In the version I read, there was an introduction by John Scalzi who compares The Forever War to his own novel, Old Man's War. I can definitely see the comparisons, but I even enjoyed Scalzi's novel a bit better.Okay, enough with the comparisons, I did actually like this book, so I'll get into the good stuff.
...Assuming they return home at all...War devalues human life, regardless of the patriotic praises we heap upon military personnel, and it destroys societies.
Some might call this book a military space opera novel, and they would be right; but some would also see such labels and avoid the book based on assumptions about those labels, and they would be dead wrong.
This is one of the finest Science Fiction novels I've read in a long time, and I hope neither the book, nor its messages, are forgotten.
