https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223666.The_General_of_the_Dead_Army
Ho già voglia di rileggere il suo racconto.Mentre leggevo, mi sono tornate spesso in mente le immagini del bel film di Tavernier di argomento simile, La vita e nient’altro - piuttosto che quelle stitiche del film che Luciano Tovoli trasse dal libro di Kadare (ma si sa, quando un direttore della fotografia si mette in regia, il disastro è spesso assicurato).
Δυο ιταλοι-ενας ιερεας και ενας στρατηγος -ξεκινουν με προορισμο την αλβανια και σκοπο να βρουν τους νεκρους τους,τους σκοτωμενους κατα τη διαρκεια του Β παγκοσμιου πολεμου και να τους φερουν πισω στη πατριδα και στις οικογενειες τους.πολλα τα κοινα στοιχεια του βιβλιου αυτου με την ιστορια του Ο. που διαβασα, του ιδιου. ιστορικα γεγονοτα, συμβολισμοι, θεατρικοτητα και κυριως ενα πολυ πρωτοτυπο και δυνατο θεμα.με εχει κερδισει αυτος ο συγγραφεας.
A decision which will make the very last hours of the Italian duo in Albania quite shocking, stirring up old rancours colliding with the sacred importance given to hospitality by the local population.All in all, what we have here is a slow-placed novel dealing with a potentially very poignant topic but treated and developed in a somehow cold blooded way which could disappoint many readers.But one must not forget that this same cold blooded view on the hard business of digging out corpses from the Albanian soil, guessing their height from the bones and matching it with a list of dead soldiers names is precisely the message Kadaré aimed to deliver.This is a book about loneliness and a book about bitter memories.
A catastrophic military campaign is recalled and one cannot help thinking that the attempt to invade Albania by supposedly superior forces are not unlike those taking place in another country near the beginning of the geographical alphabet today.
Our obsession in the UK and US with the ins and outs of our own literary scenes and unspoken requirement that any significant literary contribution be written in English often leads us to ignore superior foreign writers - Kadare should be cherished.
4.5 amazing stars. I loved the first 200 pages, but the ending wasn't the best I could imagine. I love Ismail Kadare, he really represents the best part of Albania. What really surprises me, is that even though I'm Albanian, when I read Kadare's books I feel like I'm foreigner. He always sees what the others don't bother to pay attention, that makes him a great writer. I think he totally deserves to win a NOBEL.
This is one of the best books I have read by Ismail Kadare so far. I loved the symbolism.
Quanti modi ci sarebbero per leggere questo libro?
Innanzitutto è un libro che parla di quelle pieghe sconosciute della nostra storia, con una prospettiva che fa venire le vertigini: scritto da un albanese ha come protagonista un generale italiano.
Ma poi è anche un libro sulla commedia dei ruoli, in alcuni momenti sembra di leggere Beckett o Ionesco, anche se lo stile è sempre leggero e molto semplice.
Un libro sulla tragedia della guerra, sul dramma dell'occupazione, sulla memoria e sulla (non) riconciliazione.
Infine è un libro di atmosfere, che ti entrano dentro e si fanno vivere.
Looking at the author's picture on the inside back cover, I am reminded of what a cruel time the 1970s were.
There are, in fact, a few pictures of me floating around the Internet which I wish would disappear.
It is 20 years after World War II.
Twenty years after Italian troops overran Albania.
The Albanians flashed up pockets of resistance, leaving many Italian soldiers in makeshift graves.
An Italian general (no name) returns after negotiations between the governments to find and return the Italian soldiers.
A priest, a conscience, accompanies the general.
Ölü Ordunun Generali, savaş romanları arasında özellikle 2.dünya savaşı sonrası yazılan romanlar arasında en belirgin farkı-özelliği; İsmail Kadare'nin "italyan" yada "Alman" kelimelerini kullanmadan günümüz kültür ve kimlik düşmanlığına düşmeden savaşın acı ve trajikomik durumunu mizahi bir dille yansıtabilmiş olmasıdır. Kuşkusuz Balkan Edebiyatının en önemli yazarlarından biridir İsmail Kadare, bir çok kez de Nobel'e aday gösterilmiştir. Kitap; 2.dünya savaşı sonunda İtalyan işgali sonrası Arnavutluk topraklarında canları vermiş İtalyan askerlerinin kemiklerini geri getirmekle görevlendirilmiş İtalyan Generalin üstlendiği görevinin kutsallığının bilinciyle yol aldıkça trajik-komik duruma düşmesi halini konu alıyor. Keyifle okunacak bir Arnavutluk romanı.
I loved this, the whole mood of it. It's an utterly brilliant idea for a book, possibly one of the most profound and unique of modern times. A General sent to reclaim the bodies of soldiers who died and were buried on battlefields in a foreign country. The combination of the weariness of digging, stultifying bureaucracy and the horror of decomposed bodies gives the whole book an unforgettable atmosphere, unlike anything else.
Maybe it's the next big thing after Kafka's Castle. Maybe. I didn't figure this out for sure. But it teaches a great deal about life... in an environment filled with death. And the most human character is a deserter. The general is a person who is almost there making the change. Alas! Great stuff.
I just wanted to finish this incredible book.Kadare is a master, but his first two novels ("General", and "Broken April") are masterpieces of the highest order that take you to a country very little known in cinema or Literature - Albania- and convinces you it is perhaps the most haunted, backwards, violent, accursed, and...interesting small land in the world.
They can, ans probably should, be read back-to-back, w/ "Chronicle in Stone" probably being his other masterpiece- though I've never not finished a Kadare novel; he is truly great.
C'est un premier roman qui a fait grand bruit lors de sa publication.
L'histoire, assez macabre, est celle d'un général italien qui 20 ans après la fin de la seconde guerre mondiale se rend en Albanie pour ramener au pays les restes des soldats morts.Il y a finalement assez peu de péripéties dans cette longue errance par monts et par vaux, au coeur de ce pays secret et rude.
Mais l'élégance de la langue et de la narration, l'ironie et le sens de l'absurde de Kadharé portent l'histoire et nous tiennent en haleine.
Le général lui-même aura changé durant cette aventure aux confins de l'absurde.
This is a fantastic book. The premise is thought-provoking, the characters are simultaneously nuanced and archetypal, and the prose is piercing. There are scenes in this book that are perfectly worked, and I was astonished to learn that this was Kadare's first novel. I will definitely be reading more of Kadare's work.
Just read this summer 2009. Was recommended to me by a student. Very good and interesting. Unlike anything I've read before.
An Italian General and a priest lead a small group to find and return the remains of Italian soldiers killed 20 years previously during WWII.
The Albanian peasants meet this expedition with an eerie, unwanted tension - many feel they are being invaded again.Slowly the General's confidence in his mission wans but after two years it is completed.
The Albanian's mission has not been successful and he even resorted to stealing some Italian remains to increase the number of his finds.And so the question remains, what did the events of WWII and of the Generals achieve except for death, sorrow and destruction?
Poate la vremea cand a aparut as fi apreciat-o, acum mi-a lasat un iz de national comunism albanez, care il prefigura pe al nostru. Eternul complex de inferioritate al popoarelor mici, transformat in superioritate. Kadare, cel putin in anii 60, imi pare un scriitor conformist, mergand pe linia regimului. O carte perimata!
Tuy giọng văn của tác giả không mấy lôi cuốn, tôi vẫn bị ám ảnh bởi cách ông tả những khung cảnh lạnh lùng và tiêu điều của một đất nước thời hậu chiến, một khuôn mặt gợi lên những dấu chỉ không dễ gì quên được.
ეს გაუცხოება ერთ პასაჟშიც ჩანს კარგად: ადრიატიკის ზღვის ერთ ბოლოში (ვენეციაში) თუკი ზღვა სიგიჟემდე უყვართ და მისით ცხოვრობენ, მეორე ბოლოში იგივე ზღვას წყევლიან, რადგან ბოროტების მეტი არასოდეს არაფერი მოუტანია და ძალიანაც კარგი თუკი მთებითა და კლდეებითაა ამოქოლილი!ეს რომანი არშემდგარი ადამიანების ფსიქოლოგიური პორტრეტებიცაა; ჩაგრულ ალბანელებზე რომ არაფერი ვთქვათ, მთავარი პერსონაჟი, იტალიელი გენერალი, რომელმაც ცხოვრებაში ვერ მიაღწია იმას, რომ ომში გაძღოლოდა არმიას, იმით ცდილობს საკუთარი მოთხოვნილებების დაკმაყოფილებას, რომ თავს დააჯეროს თითქოს მისი „მკვდარი არმია“, რომელსაც მწვანე კამუფლაჟირებული სამხედრო ფორმების ნაცვლად ცისფერი ცელოფნები აცვია, უძლეველი არმადაა და მათი მჯობი ქვეყნად არავინაა!და კიდევ ერთი: კადარემ კიდევ ერთხელ დამანახა, რომ როცა რაღაც დიდი ძალადობის შემქმნელი ხარ, თუნდაც სრულიად გააცნობიერო შენი დანაშაული და მთელი გულით მოინანიო, მსხვერპლის წინაშე ბოლომდე მაინც ვერასოდეს გამოისყიდი ძველ ცოდვებს.P.S. ეს ძალიან მაგარი ავტორი დიდი იმედი მაქვს, რომ წელს გამოიცემა ქართულ ენაზეც.
Such music plays in Kadare's Albania, where warfare is a customary performance...an aesthetic experience.
"The whole story evolves under the sign of slaughter."A party of Italian military personnel comes to Albania, twenty years after the war, to collect remains.
Kadare is, and the tales of the general's encounters are unforgettable.
The general's "team" finds remains from different nationalities, and even different wars.
They attend a party with locals who are still pissed-off.
He realizes how his mission is a like a copy of the war itself.
Cartea asta a trecut prin viața mea ca trenul prin gară. E frumos scrisă, a rulat fin pe sub ochii mei, dar nu am reuşit să mă conectez deloc la trăirile generalului.
Kadare’s tale of an Italian general seeking out the remains of his country’s soldiers fallen in Albania during World War II and the mental toll the task takes on him, makes for a haunting image of the futility of war and its grisly aftermath.
While they are both pitiful characters, the Italian general shows deep affection for his dead army, going as far as believing he himself belongs with it, whereas the German one is nothing but a scavenger picking at the bones of the dead.That being said, I’ve reached the conclusion that reading Kadare in English takes away half the charm of his writing.
Sometimes...however...I forget to bring a book for myself and find that I'm stuck in the heat / cold with nothing to do except twiddle my thumbs and watch people go by.
So I walk into the nearest book store, pick up something of reasonable length and start reading.
That is why I've read The General of the Dead Army.
I have another Ismail Kadare effort in my book case but I haven't yet had time to explore that one.
As I've said shortly before, I do not feel that this book has been in any way meant for me.
El însuşi mărturiseşte, într-un interviu acordat lui Alain Bosquet, că a scris romanul Generalul armatei moarte într-o notă opusă acelui curent literar „realist” implementat de puterea moscovită începând cu a doua jumătate a secolului al XX-lea, în toate ţările comuniste:„Povestea despre generalul care vrea să dezgroape o armată îşi are originea într-o noapte moscovită geroasă, când în creierul meu, ca o contrareacţie la optimismul literaturii sovietice de atunci, a culorilor vesele în care zugrăvea realitatea, începând cu vremea de afară (ceea ce, în sinea mea, numeam meteoschematism), continuând cu morala, cu ideile şi cu un soi de umanism dulceag şi enervant, de bunătate tipică, ce nu era, în realitate, nimic altceva decât poleiala care acoperea uscăciunea şi care sfârşea, întotdeauna,într-o concluzie extrasă din doctrina marxistă… Deci pot spune că la originea Generalului… se află povestea unei prostituate dintr-un bordel italian, care ne-a aprins tuturor fantezia, pe vremea copilăriei mele.
This book is amazing.
Unnamed general and unnamed priest are collecting bones of the fallen Italian soldiers in the Second world war in Albania.
They are especially searching colonel Z.
from the notorious battalion who killed even it's own's soldiers.
The book is very well written.
We get to see different perspective of war and i really like Kadare's writing.
But i don't like the end.After general finds colonel's bones and after he threw them from the bridge everything falls a part.
I didn't like the fact that general goes slightly mental after that.
It was unnecessary.
And the whole atmosphere just disappeared.
This edition (hardcover) has dozens of typos. Must not have been proofread by someone whose native tongue is English.Given the subject matter, the premise, the historical basis, this book should have been explosively dark and macabre. It wasn't. I kept reading thinking surely it would improve. It didn't.
„Daca o sa mor, imi spunea mereu, ingroapa-ma adanc, sa nu ma gaseasca cainii. Iar acum, ca el era mort, scormonind in pamant, vorbeam si eu de unul singur: n-ai grija, te ingrop adanc, foarte adanc.”
the story is based in a historical fact but the book is very original and impressive. I have read it when i was only 10 and at first I was a bit afraid of the scenes when they talked about dead bodies , but it was thrilling and amazing too
İsmail Kadare, benim okunacaklar listemdeydi. Okudum. Mutluyum. :)
جميلة جدًا.
