https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33811.By_the_Rivers_of_Babylon
They've spelled the title wrong. It should be By the Rivers of Babble On. DeMille is a smart and thorough guy, but damn, this is boring! I'd rather sit and watch my bananas ripen.
I really enjoyed this book, and I almost didn’t make it through the first 50 pages. I’m so glad I stuck with it. Premise: two Concordes take off from Israel full of diplomats and dignitaries on their way to the UN in NY to an unprecedented conference to finally bring peace to the Middle East for good…oblivious to the bombs planted in the tails during plane production.My main gripes about the first 50 pages:1. Had to make notes in order to keep the characters straight, I couldn’t keep my Chaims,
Premise: two Concordes take off from Israel full of diplomats and dignitaries on their way to the UN in NY to an unprecedented conference to finally bring peace to the Middle East for good…oblivious to the bombs planted in the tails during plane production.My main gripes about the first 50 pages:1.
Felt like I had read the same book before, an airplane disaster book he wrote called “Mayday.” If the plane blows up at Mach 2.2 at 15,000 feet, everyone gets brain damage, yada-yada.3.
Characters felt flat and stereotypical once I began taking notes and assigning one-word adjectives to them (ultra-religious, cocky, sly, bleeding heart, nervous, etc.) Predictable!Then the story took an unexpected left turn!..
I loved it. A real nail biter. Look forward to more by DeMille.
A bit dated, but I'm old enough to remember when peace in the Middle East was a possibility, not just a dream. Loved it!!
Putting the M-14 on the plane is the author's way of saying (a) he just learned about starlight scopes and he thinks they're really cool, and (b) he needed something to give the ministers, secretaries, and human-rights philosophers a chance against the heavily armed gang headed for them.
More likely, the author sees the bad guy couldn't possibly lose if he attacks immediately, so he fixes it.
More ridiculous stuff happens, then a guy in Tel Aviv has a crazy idea they should look for the Concorde in Babylon, for no reason other than the author knows that's where the plane is.
By the Rivers of Babylon is just what I’ve come to expect from a Nelson DeMille novel: suspenseful, action-packed, and nuanced with shades of politics and character complexities.
That it was written over thirty years ago doesn’t make it any less compelling, and in fact, despite any changes in the Middle East since then, By the Rivers of Babylon still provides an insightful glimpse into the hearts and souls of the people residing in that part of the world.
DeMille is especially adept at highlighting the conflicts between peace and safety, the importance of history and faith, and the damage war’s displacement has had on Jews and Arabs alike.
I must say that I am a DeMille fan, but this book was not a good read. Not even mediocre, it was painfully bad. I feel I wasted my time reading this book. This is the only DeMille book that I have not liked, I have read most of his books and have enjoyed them, I will still look forward to reading any new books from DeMille.
By the Rivers of Babylon is one of DeMille's earlier works, and you can certainly tell, with the writing style and the time-period.2 Concorde aircraft take off from Israel heading for a UN conference that will bring peace to the Middle East.
But one of the planes ends up bursting into flames while airborne, and the second aircraft is forced to crash-land at an ancient desert site.
Armed with very few weapons, the survivors of the aircraft make a desperate stand against an army of Palestinian commandos, who are converging on the crash-site, while the Israeli authorities attempt to rescue the survivors.
Two Concorde jets are flown into Israel to carry Israeli officials to a peace conference in New York.
Security is tight but everything checks out and the planes take off with a contingent of F-14 fighters.
But it is not enough and almost before anyone knows it, the planes have been kidnapped and forced to crash-land in the desert.While this would not usually be a book for me, and it started slowly with a whole lot of detail I was not interested in, I was quickly drawn in and had a hard time putting this down.
A very riveting story that will keep you from putting it down.
I've liked everything I've ever read that was written by Nelson DeMille -- this book is no exception. I'd recommend it to anyone who likes a good adventure with more than cardboard characters -- true, lots of blood and guts, but a fascinating background and multi-layered plot. I give it an A.
Entertaining airplane read... nothing special.
For 1978 I am sure this was somewhat groundbreaking but I don't know that it holds up. It was slow, boring, too many characters, not enough action, and too much postulating and thinking and not enough actual drama. Too bad... but nice to see that Demille has certainly improved as an author and has developed a strong personality in his writing.
This book takes the international realm and stands it on its ear -- there is (excruciating) details of the relations between the characters on both sides of the peace conference who are forced to work together to fight the terrorists.
In addition, the battle tactics are first-rate, the writing is almost perfect, and the story is superb as the "hostages" fight in small groups with every weapon they have -- gas bombs from the plane's fuel tanks, sounds from a war movie blasted over speakers to simulate larger weaponry, etc..WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE:There are a LOT of characters at the start of this book and it is hard to keep track of them all.
The resultant desecration of the temple and the capture of the citizens into slavery in Babylon are among the most significant milestones in the history of the Jewish people and the entire Middle East.
After Babylon was overthrown by Persian King Cyrus, 50,000 slaves were freed to return to Jerusalem and to re-build the temple.
Readers who have an understanding of this mid-east history will especially appreciate this fictional tale because many of the characters are developed with reverence for the history of the landing site/battleground.An enjoyable read, especially for those who appreciate mid-eastern history.
Peace mission Concorde hijacked to Babylon.
An Arab-Israeli peace mission to New York is plotted against by Ahmed Rish, an ex-pat Palestinian who sabotages two Concordes bound for El Al during their construction in France.
The hijacked Concorde is led to Babylon by Rish in an accompanying Lear, where the bird crash lands upon a plateau that becomes the Israeli defensive fortress.
Jacob Hausner, security chief for El Al and among the marooned Israelis, takes command of the plane and begins preparing defensive positions around the plateau while aircrew members vainly try to repair the APU and radio for help.
Recommended, and a definite must for any DeMille fan.
His first hardback novel, and his first big breakthrough.
Originally published in 1978, it could have been written yesterday, which is one point the novel makes - not much changes in Babylon over the millennia when it comes to Israel.After their Concorde is forced down in the deserts of Babylon, a small group of Israeli diplomats, their aides, security force, and a El Al civilian flight crew attempt to fend off Palestinian guerrillas intending to capture them as hostages in order to disrupt upcoming peace talks.A good, solid, engaging, and suspenseful adventure with considerable paramilitary small-arms action and technical battle strategy.
Think 'The Flight of the Phoenix' on military and international intrigue steroids.
By the Rivers of Babylon was Nelson DeMille's first hardcover novel and was written in 1978.
Often ~40 year old thriller novels are laughably out of date or simply no longer relevant to the world as it sits today giving a poor reading experience, not so with Rivers of Babylon.
It is as relevant today as it was in 1978.The plot principally revolves around lead up to & the (successful) Palestinian terrorist plot to hijack a Israeli plane filled with diplomats; and the aftermath including their fight for survival.Plenty of atmosphere, development and tension.
Definitely worth picking up if you see it in a secondhand book store and enjoy a good action novel.

My favourite book by this author. I read this years ago and enjoyed it even more the second time around. A group of Israeli delegates are on a Peace Mission enroute to New York. Their plane is sabotaged and they are forced to make a crash landing in the desert. There they make a stand against impossible odds.There is an excellent cross section of characters and the story is fast paced and action packed. Well worth a look at.
A little long, but then maybe because this was only my second digital book I've read on my iPad (I make the font so big that the book has LOTS of pages). The premise is: 2 Concord jets (if it has airplanes in it, I have to read it) take off with Israelis headed to a peace conference in New York. They are set up by a terrorist who has planted bombs in the tails of the jets when they were first manufactured. Part exciting, part suspended credibility, and part 'I just want to see what happens'.
High octane adventure from start to finish. But then Again anyone who follows my reading knows that mr demille is probably my current no. 1. A peace mission sets out from lod airport on two Concorde super jets. Despite every precaution the planes have been tampered with by Arabs intent on destroying peace negotiations. What follows is a harrowing story of survival by the individuals on board.
I love Nelson Demille. This was his first novel and although it has a great story line it did not grab me like every other book I have read of his. It was still worth the read because you can see he has progressed very much as a writer.
put people in power who don’t want power, symbols of pride and sin, human peculiarity for destruction, 2500 years Jews freed and stayed, we are raising men again.
The first part of the book dragged, but after nthat the book was can't put down, awesome!
By The Rivers Of Babylon is amazing, an adventure story that also acts as a meditation on war and peace, a glimpse into battle strategy, a rumination on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict (and other political truths about the Middle East) and, most importantly, a character study.
Hausner and Miriam, the star-crossed lovers, are of course the highlights (and I felt terrible that they really couldn't be together), but I also really liked Burg and Dobkin.
So I personally liked this book. By The Rivers of Babylon by Nelson Demille. The previous reviews didn't do it justice. I say this to say, he's an awesome writer.The plot and characters were well developed. The storyline flowed and was very believable. The history given and politics involved was impressive.This book was 2 snaps & a circle. Well that's my review & I'm sticking to itUntil next time, Ciao!ps. oh happy reading & happy holidays!!
Overall I have thoroughly enjoyed Demille's novels but this book left me cold. I understand it is his first novel, not too sure why they published it without further editing. I found the story overly confusing, too many characters, not enough understanding of who everyone was. I am planning to read all his books in order of publishing, hoping his other earlier works aren't as tedious.
Somewhat dated, although more by the weapons and plane descriptions than by the plot. As is his wont, DeMille gies into stultifying detail about every characters weapon of choice. A decent plot, although not very original, but this isnt one of DeMille’s best.
I didn't read it because the font was minuscule. What were they thinking?
Israeli Arab Relations ExplainedThis book is a page turner. It has intrigue, war, human rights, religion, and love all rolled into the storyline.
