https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120695.Higglety_Pigglety_Pop_or_There_Must_Be_More_to_Life
This is a darker Children's book. The dog is not happy with everything so she goes out to find Experience. There is also a theatre company and it turns out she wants to act. She ends up in an audition and doesn't know it.The dog is not satisfied and she is seeking. She does end up being happy in the end. It is like a child needing to leave home and make their own life.The art is stunning in this book.
This is one of the most special books of my childhood, and admittedly an unusual one. This is a somewhat dark book for a child - really, it's not meant for children. It's about a dissatisfaction with the norm and with perfection, and the (often futile) quest to find "experience" and "something more." It's not a book with a heartwarming lesson, and it's actually quite surreal. Sendak wrote it to deal with the death of his beloved dog Jennie. I love this book dearly and recommend it to anyone going through a mid- or quarter-life crisis.
I must have read this book every night before bedtime for years and years of my childhood. There's just something so creepy and fascinating about it -- I think it's impossible to put your finger on it, but I remember being drawn to it even when there were plenty of new books to tackle. The illustration is particularly chilling. If it seems a little odd (or completely bizarre) when you first check it out, give it another chance. Sendak is a genius.
I've had this in my collection for, um, decades, but somehow it just kept missing me. Finally, I have grabbed it and finished reading it, though I tried to pretend it was going to go on forever (because I wanted it to never end).This is Jenny. She is the very proud owner of one round pillow (upstairs) and one square pillow (downstairs). Her treasured possessions include a bottle of eyedrops, a bottle of eardrops, some pills, a comb and brush, and a red sweater. But Jenny isn't satisfied. I am di
Finally, I have grabbed it and finished reading it, though I tried to pretend it was going to go on forever (because I wanted it to never end).This is Jenny.
But Jenny isn't satisfied.
There must be more to life than having everything!So Jenny leaves home.
She learns she must gain "experience" in order to get a job.
Jenny is a bit spoiled and more of a taker than a giver, which is why it is a good read-together for parent and child.
The wee ones will learn that we must also sacrifice every once in a while.
This was one of my favorite books as a child and has remained so in my adult years.
It is the longest of Sendak's works, perhaps because it covers so many themes: the meaninglessness of materialism, dissatisfaction with one's lifestyle, the value of unusual experiences, the cunning necessary to survive, the true "having it all." 5/8/12 - I reread it today, after learning Sendak had died.
Even as a child, I read this as a version of Doggie Heaven, and it offered me great comfort when my best dog friend died, and it offers me comfort now with the passing of a great author.
For some reason, I was determined to read more of Mr. Sendak's books, hoping to find one that I could appreciate for his unique artistic style and abstract humor. The black and white illustrations are humorous and really help to convey the strange plot of the story. No matter how hard I try, though, it just didn't do anything for me.Meh.
I felt like there was a "fairy tale" or "Mother Goose" vibe, though I couldn't place it -- I had a strong recollection of Old Mother Hubbard.
I thought I remembered an illustration of a girl, looking out over the land while sweeping a stoop.
Then just yesterday, at a stop at a thrift store, I looked up at the top shelf and saw something familiar: "Higglety Pigglety Pop!" I pulled it down, surprised to see a Maurice Sendak book that I didn't know anything about, and then I started shaking because I knew, right away, that it was this book.
Sometimes I start to think that some of the books I'm remembering never really existed because the memories are so faint and vague.

Sendak once again creates a children's book with very adult themes.
Dissatisfaction with your life, clinging to the dream and possibility of what you could be, and what it really means to have everything.
The story itself is about a terrier who has seemingly has everything but wants more.
In particular, Jennie wants to be the leading lady in The World Mother Goose Theater.
The book is rich and densely layered with the themes.
It appears that Maurice Sendak had a terrier named Jennie which explains the terrier that stole the show in One Was Jonny.
A very challenging children's book that also can resonate quite a bit with adults.
"There must be more to life than having everything!"This book was recommended to me very recently by a friend who loves Maurice Sendak with all of his heart.
So, I definitely expected something lovely, but was surprised by just how much this story endeared and moved me.
This book is: -delightful -wisely written -frothing at the brim with whimsy -beautifully illustrated (I MEAN, COME ON!
IT'S SENDAK!) -full of good lessons Also, there is a narration by Tammy Grimes that truly is remarkable.
Her voice makes me feel like a child at a fireplace hearing a tale from his grandmother.
Like this book.
Many may be familiar with the author Maurice Sendak who also wrote “Where the Wild Things Are,” but this is not the same kind of book in many ways.
From the lines of Mother Goose, Mr. Sendak elaborates a modern tale of multiple themes.
Its comic surface is the tale of Jennie the Sealyham terrier, who packs her black leather bag with the gold buckles and goes out into the world to look for something more than everything.
This is one of my favorite books from childhood. And who doesn't love Maurice Sendak? This is a slightly longer book and has some humor that I noticed my almost-5-year-old didn't get. We had to read it over two sessions. When I was a kid, my favorite illustration was the one where Baby is about to bite Jennie's tail. I've always loved this book!
Love Maurice Sendak's books and this one doesn't disappoint!
The story is cute, but the art work is staggeringly good. Make me want to rush out and get a dog just like Jennie.
I remember reading it, at about age 7, and being fixated on things - the dark theme, the deeper meanings I didn't understand, the illustrations.
22 years later, I finally get to re-read this.
---Read (finally received it via mail) --- and a little sad.
I originally looked for the Colbert Report interview because I had heard he mentioned Higglety Pigglety Pop as his favorite book on this interview - but this is not the case.I did find an obit by the Guardian which had this wonderful line:"His dog was his idea of perfect company, he said, and he declared Jennie, the Sealyham heroine for whom Higglety Pigglety Pop!
All I can remember is crying, from the beginning to the end.
They all teach her ways to find happiness in her life and lead her to decide to become an actress because they believe this will make her happy.
This would be a good children's book to keep in a classroom because it shows what passing along kindness can do and that you can always find happiness in life.
I don't have a strong opinion about this story either way, I believe it is a cute book with a sweet storyline but I don't see it as one of the best children's books I've ever read, or the worst.
I could not find an y info on this book to scan... but his is by far on of the most incredibly oddly,beautifully,illustrated books I've ever owned in my life. It is both funny and dark, weird and wonderful, with Jennie the terrier who packs her bag and sets off to find..." something more than everything". She finds the World Mother Goose Theatre, and things progress from there in a most bizarre manner that I can only advise you to enjoy this on your own.
One of my favorite books from childhood--brought back many good memories reading it again.
I was often a bored little girl who was the star of my own imaginatons
The audiobook by Tammy Grimes is a treasure.
Great sense of humor, fantastic art.
is about a dog named Jennie who has everything materialistic, but for some reason still isn't happy.
Throughout the book she comes across a: lion, milkman, baby and pig.
Each character teaching her something different, a way to find happiness.
I love Sendak's unconventional children books, a lot of them seem to be for adults!
Though, he does say that he doesn't make children's books, people just seem to label it to be for children.
I also love that the character is actually an old dog he used to have!
I really liked seeing Jennie (the protagonist) go through her new adventure as she tried to look for something/anything that would satisfy her.
The text within the book and its dark and detailed pictures, indicated to me that it was written for the youth, so I would definitely use it with children in the upper elementary school-aged years and early middle school-aged years.
I would use it for the purpose of asking students what morals they think the story could teach, as the end of the story didn't really show that Jennie learned much from her adventure, but did attain some "experience."
The story follows a dog who is not happy with her life.So she leaves her house and goes on an adventure.
While on her adventure, the dog faces new experiences at a theatre and comes to realize that she already had everything she ever needed.
The strange saying made a lot of sense to the dog and she was contempt with her life again, going back home.
I enjoyed the pictures as well as the nursery rhymes.
The context matched the pictures very well, but I felt that there was still something missing from the story.

I found this on display when I was exploring the children's section of our gorgeous library (East Baton Rouge has THE BEST public library system) and sat down for the quick read.
I forgot how lovely Maurice Sendak's art is, with all its fine detail even in black and white.
This is one of the most surrealist kid's books I've read and I really enjoyed it, partly because the dog ran off to find meaning in her life and partly because I was also reading Fifteen Dogs at the time, which ramped up the meaning of the plot for me (good read, but not at all a children's book).
Just delightful.
I liked this book because it read as an original fairy tale style book. though i hadn't realized that it involved the story of a dog running away/being lost - HELLO TRIGGERS. i don't read books where bad things happen to dogs so had i known that was a plot (my own fault it's pretty clear if i had read the back of the book) i probably wouldn't have read it, BUT i love maurice sendak and this book was great
What a trip. Splendid illustrations!
Prose: Modern FantasyJennie, the Sealyham terrier, is in search of experience to become an actress.
