https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355917.Flyte
Exhilarating, dangerous, whimsical, and magical!As he rode, Simon was occupied with his thoughts. He was amazed that it had all been so easy. When he had ridden into the Palace, Simon had expected, at the very least, to be stopped and questioned. But there had been no one there, and so, he thought with a grim smile, the Heaps only had themselves to blame. Because Simon had not really expected to snatch Jenna so easily, he felt a little scared of his own success. *******Flyte by Angie Sage in the
Exhilarating, dangerous, whimsical, and magical!⁣As he rode, Simon was occupied with his thoughts.
When he had ridden into the Palace, Simon had expected, at the very least, to be stopped and questioned.
*******Flyte by Angie Sage in the second book in theSeptimus Heap series.
The unique storyline, clever characters, fast pace, unpredictable danger and perfectly placed humor makes listening to the audiobooks irresistible!
Narrator, Gerard Doyle, earns 5★'s for his expert story-telling making the audio edition of this series more exciting and more enjoyable for me than if I had read the book.
I am absolutely loving this series of audiobooks!
دومین کتاب از سری سپتیموس هیپ پرواذ (پرواز) یا فلایت استک نقل از متن: دست نگه‌دار!
می‌خواهی همهٔ ما را به کشتن بدهی؟ پایان نقل.
اسکلتی از یک جادوگر سطح آب را می‌شکافد و بلم‌ران با این که از ترس می‌لرزد، اجازه می‌دهد اسکلت، سوار قایق شود.
اما این بلم‌ران مرموز کیست و چرا خواهر خوانده‌ اش جینا را دزدیده‌ اند؟ ا.
I wasn't quite as enthralled with the second book as I was the first (some of the inventiveness and cuteness seemed lacking just a smidgen) but it was still a good story.I felt it continued the story and plot well, holding fairly true to the characters and flavor of the first book.I only have a few...
I think it's all there, it's just not entirely explained and I think it would be very interesting to learn.A few times I feel Sage has her characters act too young for the rest of their actions.
She seems to have things well set up and a good idea of where the overall story needs to lead.
رواية سحرية من عالم أخر لا يعرف بعده الزمني او المكاني حتيتأخذنا "ساج" في رحلة ممتعه وتعاويذ كثيرة وعالم يشبة عالم "هاري بوتر" ولكن بأحداث مختلفة تماما نقوم بمغامرة كبيرة مع "سبتيموس هيب" التلميذ النجيب للساحرة العظمي حيث يحاول فيها أن ينقذ أخته بالتنبي "جينا" والتي هي أميرة البلاد من براثن أخية "سايمون" تلميذ السحر الأسود والذي يحاول التخلص منها ومن الساحرة العظمي وإعادة سية النيكرومانسر "دومدانيال" للحياة مرة أخري تظهر الكثير من الشخصيات أثناء الأحداث ..
يساعد البعض منها "سبتيموس" والبعض الآخر يساعد السحر الأسود وسيدهالرواية في شخصياتها تشبة توزيع شخصيات "هاري بوتر" ولكن مع إختلاف كبير جدا في الأحداث والأماكن ومن الممكن في الزمن أيضاالشخصيات مميزة جدا وكثيرة أيضا..
quirky, most definitely something new to the children's bookshelves. these books show a lot imagination and creativity. dark with light humour in between the nasty bits. i like the way angie sage also uses the phonetic spellings of 'magykal' words to show a distinction between the norm and the wizards. her World is full of adventure, surprises and humour.
I loved the first book, and rated it 4 stars because the characters were so three dimensional.
why is so little mention given to the fate of the dragon boat at the end of the book?
why was that whole meaningless section about dragon droppings put into the climax of the story?) I imagine some of these issues will be expanded upon in the next book, but they still could have been handled better in this book so the reader does not feel that things are abruptly dropped in or skipped over without explanation.
Also, the characters were not handled as well in this book.
It also seemed to me that his parents should have had SOME doubts about Simon's character, given his history.
What a fun series, I love how all the characters are so perfectly original and surrounded by a wonderful story that just keeps getting better with each book.
It is fantastic how there is always new magic in so many avenues of Septimus's young life.
Dragons, wolf boys, ghosts, magic all wrapped up in generations of splendid wizardry.
Gerard Doyle's individual voices are so good that it is easy to forget that it is just one person.
An excellent, clean story for all ages that moves along at just the right pace to keep it captivating and exciting.
Looking forward to the next book.
Makin seru. Keren!
Review that I posted as a comment in May 2012 because I was a Goodreads noob back then. Now updated to show as an actual review:An enjoyable read :) Many of plot twist that didn't become apparent to me until just before I read them :P And at the back of the book with the "What happened Before..."s was fun to read :D It's nice to know how the minor characters came about, something you don't always get to know in books :)
Then, there's the Dragon Spit Fyre to which I looked forward to and then there's Simon Heap, the betraying cousin of Jenna who ressurcts Dom Daniel, villain of the previous book.
I liked the captivity part of Jenna(The Chocolate Charm, especially) but after half the book it gets dull, though Septimus remains interesting.
Eventually Septimus is able to rescue Jenna with Nicko's help from the Port but they are tracked by Sleuth, Simon's tracking ball.They make their way to the Marram Marshes where they take the Dragon-Boat from Aunt Zelda's cottage and fly her to the Castle.
Why did I pick this book: I read this book because it is Book 2 in the Septimus Heap Series.
So far, this series isn’t horrible.Did I enjoy this book?
Yes. I enjoyed it more than the first book, Magyk.
Sarah is not a prominent character in this or the last book but I enjoy her.Would I recommend it?
If you liked the first book, Magyk, then, yes, you should read this one.Will I read it again?
I don’t think that I will read this series again for the sake of reading it.
Re-reading this series, you pick up on things that sped past you the first time.Flyte shows more magic(Magyk), Charms, spell books.
Meanwhile, Marcia Overstrand has a "Shadow" following her around, causing emotional and physical strain on her, as well as those around the Wizard Tower.As I mentioned before, the Magic/Magyk is more focused in this series, showing off more spells and more charms that do certain things, like flying, reverse, identify, curses, etc.
I enjoyed this book just as much as the first one, maybe even a little bit more!
I loved getting to know all the characters better and being able to learn more about Angie's world.
It was very fun to read those passages, in particular.The only thing that could be a negative was that this book did feel a little filler-y to me.
It was all more character growth, which I'm totally fine with actually!
I think it may be why I prefer this book, slightly, to Magyk.But yeah, loving this series so far, and I can't wait to start reading the next one!
Flyte picks up Septimus' story a year later than when the first book of the series ended. It's really Jenna's story, too, as we learn more about the Princess. In this one, Simon Heap (Septimus' older brother) is the villian as he kidnaps Jenna, attacks the Dragon Boat and tries to bring back Domdaniel, the evil Extraordinary Wizard. Good continuation of the series and nice introduction to more characters that I expect we'll see going forward. These are nice books for young adult readers - pretty clean but dramatic.
In Flyte, young Septimus takes off on his own to rescue the young Princess Jenna when his brother, Simon, kidnaps her.
Although that's not to say that, Jenna and Septimus are necessarily bright in several of their adventures...with Simon on the attack, why on earth would they all ignore him when one of them is hurt.
Then when Simon is flying after them when they are on the dragon boat and Jenna uses the magnifying glass she stole from him when she was Simon's prisoner...and she uses it to great effect...why does she crumple face down to the deck when Simon goes on the attack?
I really loved visiting with some of my favorite characters again and meeting some new ones.
It allows her readers to become totally immersed in such a beautiful world where magic is real.
And as I read it, I can really feel like the magic is real in our world as well.
This is one of the reasons why I love this series so much.In this story we revisit with all of our favorite characters.
And Septimus must also come to terms with his brother Simon and his prospects of becoming an apprentice to his own Extra-Ordinary wizard.
The story gives it's readers plenty of magical action and excitement.
I've finally broken my streak...I actually liked this (book 2 in the series) the best.
This has absolutely never happened to me before!
I'm going to have to review some of my other long held beliefs...Anyway, this is an action packed book which continues the saga of Septimus Heap, long thought of only has Boy 412, but now the apprentice to the most powerful of all wizards.
His newfound status, however, has some jealous, including his eldest brother, Simon Heap.
Simon aligns himself with the dark wizards and begins to reek havoc on Septimus' life and that of their adopted sister, Jenna, the Princess.
Here is the summary of Flyte and so Septimus Heap is cleaning his library. So he catches six small spiders and lets them out out of the window. Then Septimus finds a big spider and the spider bits his thumb and then Septimus got the spider and then went to Marcia and she gave him medicine and so then the medicine made his thumb worse. Septimus went to the doctor and had to stay in his bed and do nothing for a week. This is my summary of the book. ( only chapter #1) Izabella G.:)
This was a bit slower/less awesome than the first book. It seemed like the entire book was just made up of people not believing anything Sep said, which was frustrating. At some point, someone somewhere has to believe you. I just didn't understand the blindness everyone turned to everything Sep said.It was nice seeing Sep visit his brothers and see the return of a few of the characters from book 1. Overall, I enjoyed it.
first read June 17, 2008, second reading 2013, with my ten year old.These books are addictive! I won't add more than I had a "woah!" moment when I saw the picture the illustrator had drawn for Marcia Overstrand -- I'd pictured her all along as an older, heavier wizard! Boy was I wrong!Cool book, great series -- on to book three!Lori AndersonLori Anderson:The Store Lori Anderson:The Blog
I know u are confused that I liked it, read it and gave up on. Actually I thought this book was really great even though I could not finish it. So that is why I gave it 5 stars!
What a delightfully enjoyable fantasy series!
This series is really cute and perfect for middle grade readers. It gets a bit frustrating when 98% of the adults are hapless idiots, but I suppose that's middle grade plot for you.
Magic, charms and the incredible wizard Septimus Heap return in book two of a fun series that young adults and adults can love.
7/10 The 2nd outing in the Septimus Heap series and it continues a year after the first book following both Septimus and Jenna. It was an enjoyable read without ever really getting to the stage of being hard to put down. It never got into top gear and the plot meandered a little too much for my liking which kept the overall rating down. There are plenty of enjoyable things going on in this book , the most enjoyable of which was Simon kidnapping Jenna and then the escape that ensues, and the worl
There are plenty of enjoyable things going on in this book , the most enjoyable of which was Simon kidnapping Jenna and then the escape that ensues, and the world that Angie Sage has created and the glimpses of the magic system that have been on show provide plenty of positives.
This is also a negative though as there doesn’t feel like there is a main plot on which to concentrate and rather just a number of short stories that are interlinked into the world.
Unlike Harry Potter though the story doesn’t flow and feel like there is a main plot line and focus for the story to develop.
Er möchte seinem neuen Meister helfen wieder an die Macht zu gelangen, damit er allen anderen beweisen kann das er viel mächtiger ist als Septimus.
Nun ist es an Septimus und Nicko ihre Schwester Jenna zu befreien.Familie Heap ist wieder unterwegs!!
Er ist ja so von sich eingenommen und er sollte ja der Lehrling von Marcia Overstrand, aber nein sein kleiner, gemeiner Bruder hat ihm ja alles versaut!!
Ich hoffe er bekommt bald gehörig den Kopf gewaschen!!Fazit: Spannend, witzig und unterhaltsam das ist Septimus Heap "Flyte"!!
When a magykal creature hatches and becomes bonded to someone in the story, an event you can see coming from hundreds of pages away, it feels played more for comedy than melodrama.
It's fun seeing these woven into the story, it creates a very tight "I meant to do that" feeling.
It does mean that to some extent parts of the story are predictable: every time a new mysterious character is introduced you know immediately who it is.
And by now we know that while the main conflict introduced at the beginning Flyte maybe resolved, the story is not over.
I like Flyte.Flyte is a fun sequel.
See, Septimus' oldest brother Simon is the villain.
Even if Simon tried to "indirectly" kill him a few times, Septimus chose to spare his brother's life in the end.
Nico's the most entertaining character!
I would love to get my hands on that.Marcia was the typical adult character who does not listen to the complaints and accusations of a child, and in this case, Septimus (who is her apprentice).
Sometimes, you just want to knock these kind of adults out, yes?
It was simply hilarious and just downright entertaining for fantasy readers like me.
Flyte by Angie Sage was an amazing and wonderful book.
In the beginning, Jenna, the princess, is kidnapped by her brother, Simon.
She discovers that Simon is planning to bring back the evil wizard, DomDaniel.
Simon thinks that he will be DomDaniel's apprentice.
Septimius plans to get Jenna back, but nobody will believe him except for his olde brother Niko.
I think that everyone should read this book and the whole series too!
Especially the people that read the first book and loved it.
I also think that people that adore action and danger should read this book.
"Flyte" (Septimus Heap 2) by Angie Sage is full of: so much imagination, I can only say - read it; and of frustration - disbelief by those supposed to be your nearest and dearest - I know the feeling.
Nobody trusts our hero Sep (12ish?): that his eldest brother Simon, now 20 but acts 10, has kidnapped Princess Jenna, 12ish, that Ice Tunnels run everywhere beneath the Castle.
Simon has the long-vanished true Flyte charm, can chase them, their Dragon Boat.
There's a predictable dragon egg, bu many surprises.
Overall mood is more creative than funny, for example Jen escapes viaSpoilera Chocolate Charm.
