https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31335.Cry_to_Heaven
This book was the first time I really understood what a brave writer Anne Rice is. I had read many of her books and appreciated her style, but this book took me to a dark place that I dreaded going and figured she couldn't possibly go...but she went there, just as she promised. When I met her, this is the book I had her sign (even though she was touring in support of a different book).
I thought the whole book was wonderful; I love stories of transformations, and the main character changes so much from the beginning to the end that he becomes a completely different person.
Anne Rice spends a lot of time describing the gorgeous exotic world of the Venetian castrati in loving detail, and also manages to make the specifics of voice-training downright fascinating.
Be warned; LOT'S of sex in this one (mostly with guys, but that's kind of a given with Anne Rice's books), and also one scene of violence that's not for the faint of heart.
Given the subject matter, it won't give anything away to say it's every man's worst nightmare.
I don't even have words to begin to describe the sorrow and poignancy of "Cry to Heaven". The novel's protagonist is Tonio, who is unwillingly castrated in a series of events riddled with deceit and betrayal. Enraged and tormented, at first Tonio refuses his fate, but as the novel progresses he is slowly transformed into an ultimately triumphant figure. Lush, sensual prose and an ending that will hold you by the throat, this is a book that will stay with you long, long after it is read.
Young boys were forcibly castrated to prevent the pre-puberty change in voice and keep their voices soprano alto high so they could sing in the choir...and the Operas of the day supported this venue.It's a story about great contrasts in life: Love vs Revenge, internal struggles with Right & Wrong, sexual awakening & the desire to be loved and find peace in your skin where you stand, confusion vs ambition...there are so many threads in this book that for me, while deeply interesting, the read at times seemed too long.
2018 Reading Challenge: LGBTQ protagonist RIce ripped my heart from my chest and stomped on it a few times. This book was so beautifully written, quite emotional, everyone spoke from the heart. Also quite informative about the castrati of Italy. May be my favorite Rice novel ever
Beautifully written in the lush, gorgeous prose for which Rice is famous, Cry to Heaven is rich in detail and presents a fascinating look at the lives of Italy's 18th century castrati.
I found the erotic scenes, criticized by some reviewers, to be beautifully written and central to the book's premise.
I did think, though, that the character of Christina, a central figure in Tonio's struggles, could have been more fully drawn and introduced earlier.
With Cry to Heaven, I can pay Anne Rice the highest compliment--this is the novel I wish I had written and I can say that about no other book.
Oh my God!!! Castrati!!!Unless the idea of men who have had their balls cut off having sex will sustain you for however many hundred pages this book was, you will find it deadly boring. And the writing was painful, too. It made me wish for a good castration to take my mind off the pain of her stilted dialog.
Don't be like the book snobs who won't do that.
But when you find a book that has both a good story and good words, treasure that book.” ― Stephen King I came across the above quote on another author's page.
It has been a long time since I've read a book that affected me as much as "Cry to Heaven" did.
I can now say that this book is one of my definite favorites and has earned a spot on my "cherished books" shelf, right beside my signed and numbered "Imajica" and a tattered copy of "The Brothers Karamazov." I had read Anne Rice before.
One of the most boring books I've ever read.
Anne Rice offers no twists, no surprises.
There is actually some interesting content, like Rice's depiction of the world of the castrati and some ideas about their sexuality.
I finished it only because I'd committed to a group read and needed the novel for a reading challenge.
I've actually read books where the content was less interesting and the writing even worse, and they still managed to be better reads than Cry to Heaven.
[The Mayfair witch series] A young boy was brutally castrated because of a struggle for power in a Venetian household of the 18th century.
After a life-time of study and vocal training, he eventually becomes a star of the opera in Rome.
He can play both male and female roles with authenticity, and is larger than life on stage.The young man, Tonio, has amorous liaisons with both men and women, who find him irresistable.
Tonio does deal with the past and those who sought to destroy him.A further note, I rated this book a 4-star because of its excessive length (566 pp.)
Although I read Rice's early works, I soon grew tired of the Vampire series.
I wasn't going to give her another chance until my niece swore to me that I'd enjoy this book.
She said it was one of her favorite books!
I read it to be more "connected" to her.
I flew through the book!
It is more than just a story - it teaches of an era - a sociological phenomenon, if you will - that not only has passed, but one that didn't really reach American shores.
In this way alone, the book was refreshingly original!
This was a long book and I did get little restless towards the end.
(view spoiler)[ My main interest was finally getting to read Tonio's revenge against his father but it took forever to get to that part, and by then I had grown tired of all the opera talk.
The romance between Tonio and Cristina also did not work for me.
I didn't have the investement in them like I did with Tonio and Guido.
This probably would have been a 5 stars if the dull character of Cristina had not existed and the ending had not been so predictable.
I enjoyed this book though at many points it read too much like a romance novel for my taste. If you can't stand "his throbbing member" lines then the plot will be lost on you, particularly if you're turned off by her sometimes S&M overtones. Also the plot was a bit predictable and at over 500 pages this novel could have been a much more worthwhile read had it been considerably shorter. That said, Rice's 18th Century Italy is a vivid world and it is an engaging work. I'd recommend her "Feast of All Saints" over this.
DNF on page 170 - Hmmm i just have a hard time reading this, the premise sounds interesting but it's not catching up my attention enough to read it instead of read the other book or play videogames, and it being a paperback is making it 300% harder so... nope. Atm i need a book to  really  capture me.
Anne Rice es por mucho una de mis escritoras favoritas, y con este libro me dejó claro que eso no va a cambiar.Un grito al cielo nos lleva al mundo de los Castrati, hombres que eran sometidos a la castración a corta edad para conservar sus voces intactas.
Las personalidades están tan bien definidas e irradian todo tipo de sensaciones, que casi he podido sentir el sufrimiento de Tonio como si fuese el propio, pues a veces a quién no le ha resultado difícil quitarse de la cabeza el ansia de la venganza.
Tener todo a veces solo te hace sentir más necesitado.En conclusión, a mí me ha encantado conocer un poco más sobre la vida de los castrati.
Beautifully written, it tells a story filled with beauty, music and love while portraying unimaginable pain, desperation and hate.
How much worse when you’re Tonio and the thing you love most in the world – singing – is used against you to rob you of your heritage, your family, your home and everything you thought was waiting for you in the future.And how very well does Anne Rice share the pain of this loss with her readers.
When Anne Rice is good, she is really good (of course when she's bad, she's pretty deplorable).Cry to Heaven is first and foremost, an intensely romantic novel.
I hate you, I hate you, oh let's have sex, now I love you and kind of still hate you, and I'm going to keep having sex with random people and fall in love left and right and we can all be angsty together, yay!I remember being quite taken by two specific characters in my first read-through - Domenico and Carlo.
I don't understand how, the first time I read it, I managed to be self-deluded enough to believe Carlo was a good guy all the way to the end.
I have read some of the other reviews, and while I agree that this book is long, perhaps too long and drawn out for some, I deeply appreciate Rice's detail and elaborate descriptions of people, places, and emotions.
The suffering, fortitude, and transformation of the characters is so clearly written, so beautifully elaborated, that the reader too feels he/she has been transformed as well.
Tonio and Guido suffer through alienation, intimacy, love, betrayal, loss.
But they also are able to enjoy the deep satisfaction of using their talents, of having their talents and abilities appreciated by others.
I wanted to read a book set in Venice and I remembered I enjoyed this novel many years ago.
This book recreates Italy (Venice ambience is done beautifully, but also Naples and Rome) in the 18th century really well, the historical aspects are spot on, the costumes, the music and visual arts, the places, the atmosphere all vividly described.
I guess my tastes have somewhat moved on, but it wasn’t the disappointment I feared, I’m glad I have re-read it.3.5 stars rounded up because of the dramatic final scene in Venice (reminiscent of a Greek tragedy).
I have read this excellent intense novel more than once over the years. Our hero, Tonio Treschi is forcibly castrated as a teenager robbing him of his birthright and preserving his beautiful voice as one of the castrati."In all my life I have never wooed and suffered as I have over you. But there is love and love, and I am spent trying to separate the one from the other...."- Guido to Tonio
READ THIS THREE SEPARATE TIMES WHEN I WAS 16 which means it is probably irredeemable garbage. five stars.
Pirmasis stiprus įspūdis skaitant šią knygą buvo nuostaba - viskas ganėtinai atvira ir netikėta, ypač kai tekstas išvydo pasaulį 1982 m.
Vaikas iškastruojamas ir patenka į mokyklą, kurioje bus mokomas muzikos, o svarbiausia dainavimo, juk tik dėl balso jis ir buvo "parduotas".
Laikas kiek paskuba, nupiešia Gvido balso netektį, Tonijus supranta kas yra muzika, dainavimas, kas pakeri vaiką, ir viskas skuba link momento, kai pagaliau Gvido ir Tonijaus gyvenimai susikirs labai nemaloniu išgyvenimu - Tonijaus šeimos intriga paverčia jį kastratu bei šis atiduodamas į Gvido rankas.
Pasirinkimas paprastas - Mirtis ar keliavimas iš Venecijos.Atviras tekstas apie kastratų gyvenimą, šeimos intriga, vidiniai išgyvenimai bei asmenybės formavimasis.
Through the story of one Tonio Treschi, a Venetian aristocrat with superlatively good looks and voice, castrated through treachery at fifteen, Anne Rice has brought to brilliant and convincing life the world of these “children mutilated to make a choir of seraphim, their voice a cry to heaven that heaven did not hear.” I was bound eventually to read this due to what it has in common with my favourite novel, Mary Renault’s The Persian Boy. The latter was presumably the main inspiration for Rice choosing a boy eunuch as her main protagonist, since she has said it “profoundly influenced me as a writer” and Renault was “my writing teacher whom I never knew” (to which I say “me too”).
I read this book because I like historical fiction and opera, so I thought it would be right up my alley.
In reading this book, I was reminded of why I did not make it far in trying to read any of The Vampire Chronicles.
Characters are one-dimensional and unsympathetic, prose is corny, and the book is way too long.
I just didn't really care about the characters, and even though I managed to finish it, I just skimmed through the last 50 pages just to see how it ended.
It was a real slog for me, but maybe Anne Rice fans would like it.
If you enjoy history, but want a dramatic plot to go with it.
If you want to be shocked and appalled while simultaneously feeling the muscles around your heart tighten.
This is the book for you.This book is one of those books that despite wanting to drag it out and enjoy every second for as long as you can, you can't help but read it quickly.
You don't have to enjoy Opera to love this book.
You just have to be human.If anyone has a hard copy of this book and can part with it, I would love to buy it for my personal collection.
Sent away by parents who dreamed of glory and fame and wealth and a path out of poverty.Between 1720-1730 this was a fad, a craze and according to Wikipedia over 4,000 boys were castrated annually for the opera.Anne takes us into this world with the fictional story how it may have occurred for one boy.
It is a profoundly beautiful book filled with tragedy and love and language and most of all music.This is not Anne's typical supernatural gender.
This is beautifully written historical fiction.I have read this book 5 times and will probably read it another five.
I have mixed feelings about Anne Rice books and Cry to Heaven was no different.
It sounded up my alley and it's I've seen it recommended often.
I really wanted to love it and at the beginning it kept me interested.
Around halfway through it began to feel like it meandered and I wasn't sure where the story was going.
Towards the last third of the book I began skimming.
The main character's conflicting decisions and relationships just felt too all other the place and I lost interest in the story.
I managed to finish it but I've liked other works by Anne Rice much more.
Re-read as a buddy read with my dear friend Giulia.On the whole, on my second reading, I liked it better than the first time... more things were clearer to me and we definitely took our time savouring the characters and the story. That doesn't go for the section about Christina, though-- I felt it was rushed, out of place and not quite fitting... I could have done without it, honestly, and especially without Tonio's... propensity to forget, even temporarily, old loves and lovers when he got a new one.
One of my favorite books, not only from Anne Rice's collection of works, but of all time. A sprawling, romantic, erotic, vengeful tale of a young castrati opera singer who was castrated against his will as a child and sent to live the large life of an opera star, Cry to Heaven is a gorgeous, haunting story. One I will re-read throughout my life.
A book for music lovers. Truly IMHO the best book Ann Rice has ever written. She gives the reader intimate details of the life of a castrati. A life most of us could never grasp of living. She makes you feel the joys and pains of this life. Deeply moving and thoughtful read.
