https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24171216-the-evil-shepherd
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.An amazing and surprisingly book, the first book written by Oppenheim I've ever read.
Ledsam feels the stirring of an attraction.We then cross paths with Sir Timothy Brast, who openly mocks Francis when he declares war on criminals….”I am not going to be content with a negative position as regards evildoers.
I am going to set my heel on as many of the human vermin of this city as I can find.” Brast is Margaret Hilditch’s father.
gets it into his head that Brast is a criminal mastermind.While still pursuing Margaret, we obviously cross paths frequently with Brast during the course of the book.
Ledsam is determined to catch Sir Timothy out and in cahoots with a detective endeavours to spy on Brast.
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/5743Opening:  Francis Ledsam, alert, well-satisfied with himself and the world, the echo of a little buzz of congratulations still in his ears, paused on the steps of the modern Temple of Justice to light a cigarette before calling for a taxi to take him to his club.
Visions of a whisky and soda—his throat was a little parched—and a rubber of easy-going bridge at his favourite table, were already before his eyes.
It was such a familiar form of address."What do you want?" he asked, a little curtly."A few minutes' conversation with you," was the calm reply.
Gives drying paint a bad rapThis book sucks. It should be renamed A Long Day's Journey Into Nothingness. It is the slowest piece of erudite pulp I have had the misfortune to read, and I didn't come close to finishing it. Don't waste your time. It's a novel filled with hollow characters involved in the pursuit of nothing: a book about nothing. It may have worked for Jerry Seinfeld but not here.
An odd book. Ostensibly a thriller, one is never quite sure where it's heading, but that's one of its virtues, and it ends up being a wonderful and ingenious story. Some may think it dated, but I love this kind of old-fashioned story-telling.
Remarkable story telling.I enjoyed and reveled in the use of the English written language. It depicted an accurate picture of times long ago. The author magically evolved taking the reader on the journey with him. Well done and well worth reading. Mysterious!
Finely crafted tale of duplicity and murder. Well read (Librivox) by Richard Kilmer. Recommended.
I occasionally like to read mysteries and thrillers from a much earlier day to see the changes that have occurred through the years. The style of writing is much different, as are the customs and the characters. I prefer today's faster paced stories, but this is an interesting change of pace.
how about if good fell in love with evil’s daughter after her husband who was also evil commits suicide?Welcome to 1922 and E.P. Oppenheim’s ‘The Evil Shepherd.Francis Ledsam is one of London’s brightest and most successful defense lawyers.After successfully defending and proving the innocence of his latest client, Ledsam learns from his client that he in fact had committed the heinous murders he had been accused of, and others.
His murderous client’s father in law hunts down Ledsam in a restaurant and advises him that with in the evening, a crime would be committed, and prompts Ledsam to prove his new found goodness.This is a very interesting book.
The 20's Roar, with Crime and Romance, Sir Francis Ledsam is a brilliant barrister, whose clientele is mainly of the criminal class.
Shortly after the conclusion of the trial, Hilditch's wife, the beautiful Margaret, tells Ledsam that Hilditch, in fact, is an evil killer.
Later that evening, Hilditch is murdered in the same manner, presumably by his wife.
Margaret Hilditch's father is the mysterious Sir Timothy Brast, patron of the SPCA, endower of Hospitals, and apparent criminal mastermind.
In this work, the thrills are provided by boxing matches, and matching wits.1922
Francis Ledsam, a self-satisfied successful defense barrister who rarely, if ever, delves into the innocence of his clients has just come off another win...then something happens which gives him pause....and the very intriguing and riveting story unfolds with high intensity. I couldn't put this one down.
This was a very interesting book in that it was published many years ago. There is a young couple. She has been unhappily married, but no more. Her father has the reputation of being corrupt and evil, and yet he rescues horses, cats, and dogs. The ending might be different than what the reader would expect. One typo--fattier for father toward the end.
Tale of an evil man - but is he as evil as people believe. Looks at the difference between morality and the law.
I quite enjoyed this book. I will probably download and read more by this author. Amusing, light reading from another era.
