https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20758103-the-ask-and-the-answer
because while technically not a YA romance, because there isn't any kissing, it has the perfect shape to become one: the first book is spent fighting together towards a common goal, learning each others' strengths and weaknesses, making sacrifices (sob) to protect the Other, comforting each other and never letting the other lose hope or give up.it is a perfect foundation.this chapter has them apart, developing their own personal codes in the middle of this new situation and creating a sort of armor around themselves to protect themselves from outside influence, to keep the faith in the other safe until they can be together again.
I do think it was a bit long and the tedium of Viola's and Todd's separate work situations could've been faster but other wise: WOW.
I love him• sobbing• honestly the plot ---> my feels didn't want to be together anyway• i love how it contrasted two teams of war and how everyone sucks• lowkey think the moral of this series is: men suck• character development was A+ and I hurtI loved the whole plot/trope of Viola and Todd being separated and so close yet so far.
Like not only do I love the characters and the plot, I adore the psychological aspect to!?TODD AND VIOLA.
I was more invested in Todd and Viola's characters, and accustomed to the writing style so I could fully focus on the story.
Yay for second books!So Todd and Viola found their way to  Haven  only to discover it was not the safe land they were hoping for.
Pitted back against Todd's old nemesis Mayor Prentiss, Todd and Viola become separated - each on either side of an ongoing war.
One between the people of Haven, calling themselves the Ask and those having escaped Haven and fighting against those in power - The Answer.This book was full of chilling scenes, including the torture of civilians, namely women.
This was an alright sequel, I didn't love the plot but the ending has left me very curious to see how the trilogy ends! I hope there is lots more action and intensity in the final installment :)
Of course I'd be so proud if I was able to say that I'd do the right thing whatever it takes, and I want to think I'd do it.
Fortunately for us, readers who want to be moved but oh my god that's so harsh - Fortunately for us, Todd and Viola are amazing characters and oh so more stronger than me.I'll let you know something : This book is a gem, a real one, but that was painful.
The choices we make and why we make them and how can we be sure that we're right?We just can't.Let it be known that I will forever be destroyed by this quote.
For me, it was an even darker novel than the first book with Ness sparing no details on the violence and torture undergone by those suspected of being members of the Answer.It's a very shocking story and it questions what makes a person 'good' and whether an individual is solely responsible for their actions or if society and social factors can be blamed.
The answers you think you have now may not be so easily applied when reading this book, it has the ability to question all which you've ever believed in.
Objectively, this whole series so far has been fabulously written.
Really, really skilled author.Objectively, the book deserves five stars.But...
I'm only human, and subjectively I wanted to rip this book apart and then burn the shreds because it both makes me furious and scares me to death.
Chaos Walking is the kind of story where every character is evil and corrupted in their own way and you're at a loss for someone to like/support.
To make things worse, the main characters are children thrust into and twisted by a cruel world, driven to horrible acts by horrible circumstances.
We aren’t anything else.”🌟 The Pacing in book 1 was faster which is always a plus for me, the pace here is slower but not too slow so it is still enjoyable.🌟 There weren’t many new characters but the characters we know developed and I expected the change in some characters which was awesome and devil!🌟 Every one were talking about the plot twists in this book, I saw most of them before they happened and specially at the ending I was like what if this and that happened, that would be terrific and guess what?
Todd and Viola, whose uneasy truce forged a devoted friendship, are separated when Mayor Prentiss (the antagonist from the first novel) names himself President, quarantines the women from the men, and establishes martial law in New Prentisstown.
Viola struggles with the terroristic tactics used by the Answer against innocent civilians in the name of their cause, while Todd is forced to face his shame in killing a Spackle in the first novel as he witnesses the dehumanizing treatment of the thinking and feeling alien race.
There are no easy answers and Ness forces readers to think through the complex issues of war, justifiable violence, and racism.
It's 4.5 stars. Not perfect 5 stars because the first part was a little slow and boring for me, but THEN the final chapters were so awesome and full of twists and turns and UGHHH Patrick Ness just loves to kill the characters I like!Anyway, this book was so much better than the first one! I think that's because we get to know (not really, though) mayor Prentiss. He's one of the best villains EVER.Also, I ship Todd and Viola so much.
"The Ask and the Answer" is very little like the first book in the trilogy "The Knife of Never Letting Go." If the first one is a fast-paced chase kind of story, which keeps you hooked by gradual revelation of the New World's mysteries of Noise, Haven, Viola's origin, etc., this book is basically an account of a civil war between Mayor Prentiss's army and the resistance called here the Answer.
“So who are you then, Todd Hewitt?
I feel like we’ve come a long way and it just never stops for you does it?But seriously, where to start?
Like, sell your aunt and your soul to the devil kind of good.
When I gave up trying and just went with it, it was still like running into a brick wall with your eyes closed.
In fact it was like running into MULTIPLE brick walls.The characters were even better than before.
Sweet Todd.
Angharrad was sweet but if anything it made me miss Manchee even more.
Todd?
Todd?
Manchee would've stopped this from happening.
The characters of Todd and Viola have reached a level of stupidity that I didn’t think was possible.
Having read and been let down by book one, I was hoping that Ness would redeem himself.
Not only has Ness failed to create likable characters, he has massacred any redeeming quality in Todd or Viola in order to create a plot for his series.
He should have left well enough alone, and ended this story in The Knife of Letting Go. I detest authors who rely on character idiocy to move their plot forward almost as much as I loath this book.
Patrick Ness's writing is a thing of magic. He aptly portrayed the horrors of civil war on both sides, and how war has no clear "good guy" and "bad guy". The psychological aspect of this book is intense, being in the minds of both Viola and Todd as they try to pave a path for themselves in the hell that surronds them is both riveting and humbling.
This series is just turning out to be rather "meh" for me, and that's totally not a bad thing, I just can't describe it better.
It's not bad.
I really have no problems with the characters or writing or plot, but at the same time, it isn't the absolutely coolest and best thing i've read.
It's fun to read when you're doing it, but I wouldn't consider this series one of my favorites.
It's very hard to describe my feelings for this book because right now i'm just feelin meh about it.
But sometimes, like right now, my emotions let me down and my objectivity starts failing...I feel like with the exception of couple of books, in the last couple of weeks I have fallen into a well of depression, dispair, and unlikable characters, and there is no one to throw me a line to drag myself out of it...
Those are the first victims of the battle for survival...Once again an obviously talented author is putting his talent to work at convincing us that personal feelings of love, selfish desire to be with the one you love no matter how many people would be sacrificed for it, come before the lives of others.
I imagine Viola, reluctant healer, the worst in fact, bumbling around; Todd working, slaving away.
I can imagine how sticky the blood must be when Viola’s mends someone’s wounds.
I tear up when I think of how they both feel: betrayed, abandoned, alone… And I try to wrap my mind around what the Noise must be like, or what the President’s scarier, controlled Noise must be like.
But I am not imagining how upset I am at the turn of events.
And I’m left feeling so many, many things: angry, sad, confused, a bit more sad, and whole lot more angry.
If you're looking for answers, look elsewhere.
The Answer is just the rebels made up of mostly women.
The question, at least in my mind, is what causes men to turn into cattle, whether it's the mayor turning otherwise intelligent people into subservients or what really happened to all the others that are literally being kept in pens.Lots of emotions flying about everywhere and I feel like I should be feeling a lot of pathos for the MC's, but unfortunately, I'm either in the wrong place to enjoy this or it just kinda feels a bit average.
How can you control people through manipulation of information, and how can an individual fight back against that?That's the part of the book I loved, this exploration of war and what it was doing to everyone.
that just didn't add up to me.Here's where I wish I had the book in front of me, and where I'm just going to have to come back later and explain things better.
Whether you find the ending completely psychologically believable or not, there's a lot to think about in this book, and that's really what I'm in it for.
This book was realistic and heart-wrenchingly beautiful.
This book ingrained the love I had for The Knife of Never Letting Go. It made me even more invested in the plot line and the characters.
The way this author writes is addictive and almost inhumanly brutal and beautiful.
Undoubtedly one of my favorite books of all time.
I was afraid that after such a stunning first novel, the author may not be able to keep it up.
With just one book to go, I have no clue how this will end, but I can't wait to find out!
Si eres fan del YA que esperas para leer esta trilogía?
Esta trilogía tiene mucha profundidad pero esta escrita con truco, asi que seria muy fácil leerla por encimita.
Patrick Ness expone tan bien la guerra y como reaccionan a ella los hombres en conflicto, que llega a parecerte un libro adulto en ciertos momentos.
Es algo que ya teníamos desde el otro libro pero aquí se refuerza bastante, lo fácil que es dividirnos por el simple hecho de ser hombres o mujeres.
Un libro que te grita su trama, te grita a sus personajes y te grita su final.
Seriously. One of THE best series I've read...and I'm not even done reading it yet. Why are you so awesome Patrick Ness?First thoughts:1) Love Todd.2) Love Viola.3) Love Todd and Viola.4) The writing style is AMAZING.5) Fully developed characters, plot, and concepts.Check out my full video review here!
Na prvih nekoliko strana zavrsava se zapoceta akcija iz prvog dela i onda dolazi do blagog zamora u radnji. Neko vreme skoro da se nista i ne desava.Druga polovina je ponovo odlicna. Sve se ponovo zahuhtava, vraca se tempo iz prve knjige.Da imam Buku u njoj bi se samo provlacilo:Ma daj! Ne verujem! O neee! Kako, zasto? Smrc...Onaj gubitak na kraju mi je bas tesko pao.Druga polovina knjige je toliko dobra da oduva onaj utisak dosade sa pocetka.Ne mogu ni da pretpostavim sta me ceka u trecem delu. Neko ludilo je sigurno.
During first book I couldn't help but to think of Viola and Tod as single entity but here we get to see them separated and Viola gets her PoV so we see them develop as characters individually.
Mayor (now president) Prentiss evolve from plain bad guy in first book into more subtle manipulator.
Not particularly good person but real person nonetheless.Since among YA writers Ness is king of small and subtle things we again have one of highlight of the book in background.
Tod's (however limited) relationship with 1017 and other Spackles as it evolves through book is one of high points.
And I’m glad Ness kept this kind of… innocence about him, but also developed him and allowed him to grow as a character.This book added a lot of depth to Todd without being too overwhelming and I think the situations Todd is placed in (in true Nessian form… CRAZY ONES) allow Ness to blur the lines of what actually is evil, which is one of the major themes of this series.
I had never read any Ness before so I thought I'd pick up one or two of his books as I had heard only good things about his writing.
Honestly, he is as sublime a writer as he a cruel a writer and the pain and anxiety and anguish I felt whilst reading this was only offset by the beauty and grace of his writing.
I felt somewhat responsible whilst reading this and almost ashamed to belong to the hate-fueled, discriminatory and domineering human species.
Both sides have experienced pain and anger and heartbreak.
Both sides have inflicted pain and anger and heartbreak.
:)The Ask and the Answer, book two in the Chaos Walking series, had me in knots and all twisted around in pain, anger, numbness, and love.
Todd and Viola are separated for much of this story in separate battles of survival, overwhelming confrontations with right and wrong, betrayal, sacrifice, and heartbreaking decisions that left scars on their souls and mine!
I just wanted to keep Todd and Viola safe and close to my heart.
This book’s powerful message addresses that trying-to-hold-on-to-who-you-are-in-this-world feeling like no other book I have come across!Todd and Viola broke my heart over and over in this adventure.
President Prentiss knows that Todd does not believe in him and yet he accepted him like a son.
Yes, just like going to the basement in his underwear President Prentiss ignores the treachery and continue to keep him alive and worse, part of his team.
That's a promise.To explain the title, "The Ask" is the counter-intelligence unit that President Prentiss created as part of his response to the rebellion called Sparkle War or "The Answer." Thank you, Ace for lending me this book for almost 2 years now!
Todd and Viola are giving me LIFE right now. I absolutely love this story and the second book was just as good as the first, but in a new and exciting way. I can't imagine the tortuee people went through who read these as they were published because CLIFFHANGER MUCH?? Lol excited to read the final book!!
Also find this review on - My blog Don't Stop Readin'  One of the best books I have ever read.
You will not regret it.Even I had left this book after 80 or so pages months ago but I’m extremely glad that I picked it up again.
Despite its lethargic pace, there is a great plot development and character evolution.
After finishing it, there will be "Holy shit!" written all over your face.If there is someone on this earth who didn’t like this even after reading it till last page, I am sorry to say that person is an idiot.
