https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7091713-kiss-of-death
Needs more cowbell vampire bunny slippers.  I wanted more of my favorite mad scientist Myrnin and his awesome slippers. Alas, my heart was fractured just a tiny little bit.This installment of Morganville has us headed out of town for a crazy and dangerous road trip. The book was full of peril and bizarre happenings as usual, but I have to admit that I prefer our little disfunctional family when they're actually raising hell in their own town.I was happy that it was easy enough for me to come b
The book was full of peril and bizarre happenings as usual, but I have to admit that I prefer our little disfunctional family when they're actually raising hell in their own town.I was happy that it was easy enough for me to come back to this series after a year plus break (I read the first 7 so close together that I overdosed for a while) and be able to pick right up where I left off.
I almost feel guilty for giving book 1 such a low rating because I hated Claire back when I first read about her.
Taking computers were my limit. After that it felt like a waste of my time reading these books. I really liked the first 3/4 books in the series...kept going thinking that eh it's a long series there's bound to be a few bad ones but I just give up. It just kinda got confusing and pretty stupid. If I'm ever struggling to reach my goodreads goal catch me reading the rest but until that desperate day nope.
Cue bad luck and horror movie action.I love the you-can-never-leave-Morganville thing so stepping out of it was new.
But I love that upheaval, the action and the politics, and as a result this felt like a filler book to me.
Is Myrnin going to make a move on Claire?
Which brings me to Eve and Michael, is it going to last?
I have a feeling Michael may break it off in order for Eve to have normal things like children, which he can't provide.Claire makes progress with her parents; she gets to move back into the Glass House again.
Now that vamp-Alzheimer’s has been cured and the Bishop threat obliterated, Caine has yet to establish another major storyline.
Eve and Michael are irritating.
It’s a wonder they ever manage to survive.
To mention what they’re up against would mean giving away spoilers, but there are several plot twists in Kiss of Death to keep the action and suspense rolling along.
There are also some exchanges with Oliver that make me wonder if there might be more to the cantankerous café owner‘s personality.
On the whole, not the best Morganville has to offer, but still an entertaining , strife-filled read.
Oh boy.... I just.... didnt quite like it. Thats what usually happens when you have so much anticipation. But I thought I would like it much more than the previous ones, which I really lovedWell, the whole road trip idea was cool and all, but what annoyed me the most was MUST EVERYTHING HAPPEN WITH EVERYONE EVERYTIME??? That is really annoying, I mean, I know you cant have a regular road trip in an action book, but these guys dont get any break at all!!! Just like Hermione tells Harry in the HP
Besides, she is way too clingy for Michael´s girlfriend - he is the cool rockster, needs a cool and open-minded girl, which she proves she isn´t.3 - Oliver is so cool, I wish I knew more about his past and all.4 - I absolutely love Myrnin and I totally think he is completely fallen for Claire - besides, they are the best possible couple, they are both intelligent, always bickering at each other, he is old, powerful, beautiful with the right amount of insecurity....
I like her as a character.In short, the series is still awesome and my favorite - and I know there are always the annoying books in series.
It was full of action, crazy vamps, snarky dialog, and constant twists and turns.
For a portion of the book, I felt like I took a turn into Night of the Living Dead, and I loved every moment of it.
In this book, Michael gets a recording deal in Dallas and is granted a leave from Morganville.
I loved the dialog in this book between the four main characters.
He was shear perfection in this book.
LOL I missed some of the Morganville characters, especially Myrnin, but it was nice to see a change in scenery.
Quick review:Cover: Not Liking It Rating:  PG-13 Thumbs Up:  4Overall: Better than a few previous booksCharacters: Well DonePlot: Getting out of town and into troublePage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Sure Recommend:  YeahBook Boyfriend: OliverSUMMARY (50 words or less)What can I say?
This book was better than some others.
Some of their actions were stupid but then again these are new adults with the exception of Claire.
For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewCynthia Holloway does a good job with this series.
So when she reads another book by another author, I’m always brought back to Morganville.
I love how she can throw you for loops and make unexpected turns and then conclude in such a strong way!
(SHANE!!)Kiss of Death was another fantastic tribute to The Morganville Vampire series.
If anything stands out that makes me just love this series even more is the bantering between the characters.
I think it really makes the books so much more fun to read.
This book gave me new perceptions of some of the characters and it has opened doors for lots more Morganville fun!!
If you aren't already head-over-heels in love with Shane, well, you will be after this book.
Sure, after the first 100 pages things got interesting, but somehow it didn't feel completely right, to me it was a little overdone, like if, getting them out of Morganville to yet another vampire-infested remote town could really refresh things...It is so sad, Morganville Vampires used to be one of the most fun, enjoyable Young-Adult's reads out there, but random adventures don't make a strong storyline, it works for short stories, but on a series, i don't like this sense of going nowhere.I think is a shame when publishers pushes autors for more books, even when stretching things that way ends up hurting (or even killing) the story.
How the heck did I get sucked into the Morganville Vampires??
This is teenage, brainless vampire smut at it's finest.
She lead me into a clever trap at the endings of the first few books.
I couldn't walk away without knowing what happened to these stupid, annoying teenagers in the Glass House.
I've now finished #8...there was no dangling ending and I said "Whew!" I'm off the drug and I'm not going back!There is no academic or thought provoking redeeming quality to the Morganville Vampires.
The teenage romances going on in the Glass House was syrupy yuck!
I enjoyed this book even though it was a bit thin on plot and Clare should know by now that she isn't going to die. I just love these characters so much, they could be hanging around the Glass house reading the paper and I would be happy - they get into so much trouble - it's nice to see them have a little fun for a change.
YOU GUYS!!!!! IT'S APRIL 27TH THAT IT'S COMING OUT!!!!!

First of all, it was great to see Michael, Eve, Shane, and Claire out of Morganville.
Between Bishop and Morley, the delicate town that Amelie built has slowly fallen apart and we continue to see that in Kiss of Death as Morley and his crew take their leave.One great part about this book is I finally saw Claire really change.
Kiss of Death was needed in order to remind the readers that the characters we love and want to leave Morganville no longer belong anywhere else.
I think that moment showed that if Oliver could somehow prevent Claire and her friends from ever stepping foot in Morganville he would (probably, hopefully) do it.
Wow, did I ever miss these guys!!!!Reading a Morganville book is like welcoming home friends you haven't seen in six months, the visits are always to fast and you wish they'd stay forever.So what's going on with our favorite foursome?ROAD TRIP...Morganville style;)...Dallas wants Michael to go and record some of his music and despite the fact that they need to get passes to Morley and his flock, Michael, Eve, Claire and Shane are finally, FINALLY going to be able to leave hells-town and set off to find some adventure and maybe even some fun.
I was glad to hear Claire missed him too ^^What can I say...
I never feel bored, and this is saying something because after 8 books, I'm still looking forward to the next one.
How many series can accomplish that?The best thing in this book (for me) were Claire and Shane.
Claire is turning into quite the badass, (stabbing a vamp with a pencil, shooting arrows,...) and I like where her relationship with Shane is going.
I didn't like the Claddagh ring, I yelled OH COME ON at my book when I read that.
Michael and Eve...
The fact that Michael is actually able to get his music out there is amazing.
I love the fact they get to leave the town.
If only Oliver wasn't sent as their dang babysitter.
I feel like we could've really been able to see some sort of apocalypse.
I love the fact they leave the town and still find themselves surrounded by vamps and in danger.
This one was a bit of a let down - now there were some cool things that happened like the town and such but it just wasn't for me.
2.5 stars My least favorite in the series. :/Read my full review at Book Obsession
Well I finished this book in two days & I absolutely loved it. It definitely had the wow factor. Amazing characters & brilliant storylines throughout
When Claire gets passes for the four of them to leave town for Michael's audition at a major studio, She is super excited to be able to leave Morganville, even if it is only for a few days.
When it got her into trouble Michael of course steps up all "tough vampire" to protect her, putting himself and the rest at a major risk.
I love how she is described as tiny little non-threatening thing, but she always surprises those who try to stand against her and her friends.While outside of Morganville, the four of them seriously entertain running off and never coming back.
I wanted to read this one because I have been hardcore addicted to this series, and it is so nice that they are all released and I don't have to play the waiting game.
One quote I love though that describes the development of Shane's character and how being in love and living out his protective streak is changing him.
There were some steamy moments with Shane and Claire to keep me going.
Claire mentioned at one point in time that he was both mad and brilliant, and it battled which would exhibit in any given moment.
Our awesome foursome is back again with more adventure and more dangerous situations outside Morganville.
We were left wondering how the hell can Claire fulfill his promise to the new villain vampire Morley.
Yet Claire and Amelie always surprise us.In this book Claire, Shane, Michael and Eve is granted a pass to leave Morganville for a week, chaperoned by Oliver, to accompany Michael to Dallas to see a potential record deal.
And what about the Claire-Shane romance?
My friend Tina from GoodReads was right reading a Morganville book is like welcoming back home friends.
Basic InfoFormat: PDF filePages/Length: n/aGenre: Young Adult; VampireAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 2.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot: 4Characters: 5World Building: 5Flow:  5Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 6Total: 5In DeptBest Part: There was some good action scenesWorst Part: Filler book anyone....Thoughts Had: no way; that is dumb; this is dumb!!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: not this book, skip it.
Short Review: This book was a filler book for sure.
(view spoiler)[ I highly doubt they would be allowed to go on a road trip.
and i thought once you left Morganville you forgot about it, guess not.
(hide spoiler)]Misc.
I think I tend to start my reviews of this series with "another great entry in the series...", or something along those lines - and at the risk of sounding repetitive, this is just that.
Shane was hilarious, as usual, and played off Eve, Michael and Claire brilliantly.
There wasn't a whole lot of development for Michael, short for a scene where he glimpsed Eve's future.Basically, I think this was great fun and a much needed detour out of Morganville to bring the housemates back together and prepare us for more adventures with Myrnin, Amelie, Oliver and Monica.
Shane on the other hand, is a lot more restrained this time, not losing control over himself as usual, good thing.What really made me sad is Michael :( poor guy, he loves Eve so much, but the fact that he is a vampire and she's not is kind of ruining things for them, he wants her to be happy but he realizes that he can't give her children, or grow old with her, they're just so different now...
I can't wait to see what happens with this couple in Ghost Town, hope they stay together <3As for Myrn, I missed him so much in this book, his crazy and dangerous ways...
okkk seriousley i cant wait for this to come out i have read all 7 other morganville books and cant 
Perhaps even Oliver and Myrnin, although he wasn’t in the book as much as I would have liked!If you haven’t read the Morganville Vampire series, you are missing out!
I don’t want to get into the plot of the book a whole lot since this is book 8, and if you haven’t read the others you should really start at the beginning!I’ll just touch on a few things!
As much as I love Claire and the gang remind me that I never want to go on a road-trip with them!
It seems like she always has something up her sleeve that takes me off guard!
Rather than being spread out across the entire book at an equal rate it all appears around the same time, which kills the buzz somewhat.
Don’t get me wrong, the action is extremely fun but I wanted it to happen throughout the entire book.At the time of reading the book I felt as though it was somewhat of a filler, because of the whole out of town thing, yet things that take place in this one are important for later on in the series so don’t write it off completely.
Kiss of Death is the eighth book in the Morganville Vampire series.
Claire, Shane, Eve and Michael are granted permission to leave Morganville and take a road trip to Dallas to a recording studio that wants Michael.
Kind of another slower edition of the series.
There are some good moments in it but with most of the cast of characters back in Morganville it felt a bit on the dull side.
Couldn't help but miss crazy old Myrnin and his kookiness and the couple of characters from the town that did show up weren't my favorites.
This is the 8th installment and I'm still having a fantastic time reading this series.In this book Claire, Shane, Michael and Eve get a pass to go on a road trip but there is a catch, they have to take a certain undead escort.
Claire is such an awesome character and in this book she didn't disappoint.
Shane is delicious putting his heart out there for Claire.
I love the scence where he says to her "Your the future, Claire".
And of course I love the witty dialogue between the four main characters.
They always manage to crack me up.Love this book.
