https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126627.The_Ides_of_March
Inspired by several Goodreads friends, I decided to slide this book out of one of the TBR shelves, to lighten that load.
- Caesar----- ----- ----- ----- -----Dictators must know the truth, but must never permit themselves to be told it.
- Caesar----- ----- ----- ----- -----I have often remarked that whereas men say there is a limit beyond which a man may not run or swim, may not raise a tower or dig a pit, I have never heard it said that there is a limit to wisdom.
The way is open to better poets than Homer and to better rulers than Caesar.
It still felt fresh and I was intrigued.I began reading this on the Ides of March (I live in hope that my local Shakespeare Company will perform Julius Caesar in March one year, so that I can attend it on the Ides).
I felt I came to know the main players remarkably well.
Wilder included quite a number of female characters, recognizing their political and religious significance.My studies of classical history took place in my distant past and are hazy in my recollections now.
I would be most curious now to read some Roman history and refresh my memory concerning Caesar.
This is the perfect book for lovers of three types of readers: those who love Ancient Roman history, love epistolary novels, and those who love reading the Star Magazine.
It's a gossip filled train wreck heading for a certain date in history.
If you were turned off Thornton Wilder during high school due to the obligatory reading of Our Town, do yourself a favor and dive into the squirrelly squabbling sneaky lives of the Ides of March.
I had to buy my own copy because the novel is filled with memorable paragraphs.
It's part Decline Fall of the Roman Empire and part Huffington Post.Thorton Wilder rocks!
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Caesar is depicted as a man so committed to the philosophical notion of skepticism as opposed to his own belief in what is right that he cannot be troubled to hire bodyguards against what he knows is the "Inevitable Occasion," and in the poet Catullus we find a character whose rambling, obsessive letters to Clodia counter the public formality to which so many of the characters must submit.
Along the way we are exposed to a variety of undertones: the gossip and backstabbing of the leading Roman women, the private confessions of public figures, the cool calculations of Cleopatra, and, in the book's loftiest moments, the philosophic musings of Julius Caesar himself.
Reading other people's diaries/letters CAN be more tedious than revelatory.And I've yet to overhear a private mobile call that had me riveted and prepared to miss my train/bus stop.Here we are plunged into the private conversations of Ancient Rome'sWho's Who...by letter.AND I'M RIVETED !!!Gossip, passion, politics, abuse, invites to dinner, cunning, humour philosophising, frustration, manipulation...and ALL from the pens of such Luminaries as Cleopatra, Julius Caesar, Catullus the Poet, Cicero the Lawyer, Caesar's wife, the Upper Crust Women of Rome...and the Great Unwashed in the form of their Graffiti on Current Affairs.The Thought of the City lies revealed...with much plotting and scheming.So far...more refreshingly Human than Ancient.
...beautifully irreverent and amusing.
In high school we were forced to read Our Town.
Didn't much like it--too dated even then.
Tried to read The Bridge of San Luis Rey in junior high.
Gave Wilder his, to date, last chance with Ides of March, an epistolary novel leading up to the assassination of Caesar, on the theory that the topic would excite some interest.
For one thing, Wilder plays loose with the facts, introducing impossible events and meetings.
At least four of his characters were already dead before the events he placed them in.
Also, I have yet to find an epistolary novel I like.
This humorous little book written as a series of letters sent around the Roman Empire from real and fictional characters is a treat to read. Is loaded with witty lines as when Cicero is nicknamed "Nobody up there but smoke." Because of the format of the book and the detail to public and private Roman life, I once found it cataloged as non-fiction history in a school library! To bad the real Rome had a more serious nature.
Really enjoyed this book....it is all written by notes passed back and forth by the Roman Republic characters...a historical fiction account...kinda like reading emails of gossip.....funny in places.....I plan to read it again next March......Get a copy and you do the same....March 15th, THE IDES OF MARCH.
This is one of the most wonderful novels I have ever read. Thornton Wilder thought of it not as a novel, but a fantasia, one in which he fought the tendency to favour an omniscient narrator who, he argued, diminishes the dynamism of any narrative. The result was this wonderful polyphony of perspectives. It is amazing how unique each letter and fragment is, how it seems it could only have been written by the character in question and no one else. A true masterpiece.
Not that Wilder necessarily imitates Roman epistolary style, but he does at least reflect the tenor of some of the writers.
Having absorbed Catullus' style, Wilder is able to convincingly portray the ongoing suffering of the poet.
But beyond that, Catullus was such an outrageous Roman, I don't think Wilder could resist him.
Caesar the leader, his supporting friends, the love-crazed poet, the poet's cruel lovers--all of these characters were real people, but Wilder lifts them out of time and gives their lives modern significance.
If I could rate Wilder’s “Ides of March” 10 stars I would. The epistolary style Wilder employs brings Caesar to life as no other has. In spite of knowing exactly how it ends, the tension is ratcheted up until the final blow. When it does, as it must, the reader wants to weep and scream with fury.It was wonderful seeing all the familiar names from yet another angle, even if a fictitious one. Recommended.
Причем эрудированность Уайлдера не такая махровая, как, например, у Эко.
Эрудированность Эко после первых же десяти страниц будит чувство интеллектуальнорй неполноценности и отправлет на пятичасовую экскурсию по Википедии.
У Уайлдера эрудированность приятная: парочка выражений на латыни, несколько интересных исторических фактов, которыми можно при случае сверкнуть.
Уайлдер очень вольно обходиться с историческими фактами - если ему нужно, чтобы с скандал с осквернением ритуалов Доброй Богини Клодием произошла в 45 г.
Я и сериал "Рим" очень люблю.Так как я люблю романы в письмах и охотно ем все под соусом "Древний Рим", то роман прочла с большим удовольствием.
Never read a book quite like this: the layered communications of this epistolary novel, the end days of Julius Caesar. Through this medium, Wilder imagines a man worshipped as a god and reviled as a tyrant, a man beyond both love and susceptibility to adoration, wistfully yearning for a meaningful legacy, to be exalted through poetry, a man still deeply inquiring yet deeply tired by a life that puzzled him, disappointed him, yet still had the power to move him. Wilder evokes Rome at this time most wonderfully.
This excellent book makes you admire later authors a little less. Like Pierre Grimal, Robert Graves and Mary Renault, Wilder re-invented historical novel and made it fresher and more modern.(Sadly, it also made the way for much of the pseudo-historical crap we're having lately-but that's the price you pay)Catullus and his beloved Lesbia, Caesar, Cleopatra and Brutus come alive and feel very real in this book. Wonderful.
One of the few books I was forced to read in high school that I immensely enjoyed. I read it so long ago but thought it was fantastic, an epic. The book center around Julius Caesar and the plot to kill him. My second favoirte book of alltime. I definately recommend this book to anyone. Have to reread to provide a more indepth review.
i really want to read this. FUCK, i need to pay off my library fines
A terribly clever epistolary novel by the author of Our Town and The Bridge of San Luis Rey, The Ides of March consists of four sections, each of which begins earlier and ends later than the last, each with a different theme. The first introduces the characters, the second deals with love, the third with religion, and the fourth with politics and death–specifically, the assassination of Caesar, who is the main character.While it’s far from being historically accurate, Wilder gets points in my b
Worst correspondent ever!Some of Wilder’s changes didn’t seem to add anything to the text (eg having Cato alive messes with Porcia and Brutus’s motives without providing any interesting scenes) and his explanation for Clodia’s lashing out (that she was raped by a relative as a young girl) isn’t very well-explored and is a bit cliched.I’m not making this book sound very appealing, but it’s a marvel of construction, taking the reader over the same ground several times without getting boring, and the characterization is very fine, particularly of Caesar himself, groping for a “limit [he] can respect” in the solitude of absolute power, as the other characters grope for this same limit in the social and ethical spheres.
In this work of historical fiction, Wilder uses a combination of letters, diary entries and official documents to tell the story of the last year of Julius Caesar’s life.
For example, book one begins with a letter dated Sep 1 (45 BC), includes later entries marked “written the previous spring, has a memo dated Sep 30 near the end, followed by two undated notes, and a final document “written some fifteen years after the preceding.” Then we move on to Book Two, which begins with a letter dated Aug 17 (45 BC).
It is given in the document which opens Book IV..Now, I appreciate Wilder’s writing, and there were times in the book that I was completely engaged in the story.
This imagined account of the late stages of Julius Caesar's life is quite a work of art.
It adds a dimension to a historic character's life that even if not true is well worth imagination.
In particular, Caesar's occasional musing on life, religion, God, superstition and power resonate well with readers in the 21st century, 21 centuries after Caesar's assassination and 70 years after the original publication of the book.
With a whole host of characters and events going back and forth in time and retelling the same story from different point-of-views, it is at times hard to follow but the creativity in style and prose makes up for the occasional difficulty.
Thornton Wilder's The Ides of March published in 1945 draws on unique sources such as unpublished letters, journals, and annotations made in his copy of the book to illustrate Julius Caesar's Rome.
Thornton Wilder wrote Our Town, my very favorite play.
I used to teach the play to my senior students until one day I started crying while we were discussing the death of the main character in Our Town.
Wilder also wrote The Bridge of San Luis Rey for which he earned the Pulitzer Prize.
And The Ides of March is certainly one of them.
Am pornit la drumul lecturii cu ceva reticienta. Nu aveam mari sperante ca imi va placea, dar am savurat cartea pana la ultima pagina.Un roman interesant construit exclusiv din scrisori si insemnari din jurnal care surprinde dedesubturile curtiii romane si framantarile lui Iulius Cezar din ultimii ani ai vietii sale.O lectura frumoasa si cursiva pentru iubitorii de istorie si intrigi de curte, desi cele patru carti nu sunt scrise in ordine cronologica, ci se grupeaza in jurul unor tematici comune.
Comienza interesante pero no termina de cautivarte; le falta algo…tal vez la cinemática de Posteguillo o de Dan Brown…por eso le doy sólo tres estrellas.
Both are epistolary novels, but Wilder doesn't limit himself to letters, here there are official reports, poems and graffiti copied down from walls: primary source materials for history, just fictional ones - except the poetry, that's real.These documents are collected into four books.
Obviously, Wilder's intention is that we flick back and forth through the text reading these documents again in the light of new information.
Wilder also has an extended 'document' written by the protagonist, but here it takes the form of Journal-Letter to Caesar's bedridden best friend who never writes back.
Imagine my delight when I realized that I had stumbled upon a work of genius.After reading a few other reviews, I feel compelled to add that this is historical fiction used as a vehicle for ideas.
Lots of great art is created using historical stories without accurately or objectively rendering the facts.
I don't think it's fair to dismiss this book on the point of historical inaccuracy since historical accuracy was not the author's intent.
I felt like I was being introduced to and asked to contemplate a lot of interesting perspectives on the nature of freedom, responsibility, power, and poetry.
Wilder has taken a reasonably well-documented period of ancient history and convincingly and thoroughly fleshed out the characters to turn a dusty history into a vibrant pageant of characters, intrigues, and events that continue to shape the world today.
Wilder's grasp of the complexity of the period and its potential for artistic expansion and meditation are extraordinary; Caesar's digressions on the nature of man, power, and of the universe itself are worth reading by themselves, but in the broader context of The Ides of March, provide the reader with a lens through which he might better understand the machinations of late Republican Rome.
The way is open to better poets than Homer and to better rulers than Caesar."  - Julius Caesar.Those whose dreams came true say that they had days when they doubted their dreams.
Today is one of those days for me.
This is an amazing book.
It took me about two months and a half because I was busy.
But it was the perfect book for that busy period.
It's written in letters, so I could basically read one or two pages and drop the book, then come back to it anytime I wanted.
I learned greatly from Julius Caesar's thoughts.
Once you get over that it's fine.Wilder explores the events leading up to the assassination of Caesar through the letters - private and public - of various characters as they plot, explain and obfuscate their way to the Ides of March.
Caesar emerges as a complex character, who has realized that he has to leave aside his needs as a human being to become the embodiment of Rome.
He also realizes that his opportunity to do this will be limited.Wilder wryly captures his characters' motivations and desires and makes an already fascinating period of history, live.
One of the best, most engaging books I've ever read. I highly recommend it for any Thornton Wilder fan. It's an epitolary novel about the final months of Julius Caesar's reign, and heavily inspired by Gertrude Stein's ideas about history and human progress. Wonderful.
Este libro se convirtió en uno de mis favoritos, esta lleno de sentencias morales, de pasajes históricos, no más que divertidos, y de una fascinación exhaustiva por el gobierno, los gobernantes y la forma de gobernar. Desde la primera página este libro es un deleite, recomendado.
