https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76916.The_Silent_World_of_Nicholas_Quinn
Colin Dexter's third novel featuring Oxford's Chief Inspector Morse is another complex puzzle surrounding the murder of a man named Nicholas Quinn.
Quinn is deaf, and he's recently been hired by the Foreign Examinations Syndicate, which supervises Oxford Colleges' examinations for students who live overseas.
The other members of the syndicate are, naturally, the obvious suspects, and as Morse begins to sort through their secrets and rivalries, things get increasingly curious--and dangerous.This is a typical entry in the series and it will appeal to those readers who enjoy British mysteries which really consist of puzzles to be solved by the lead detective.
The Silent World of Nicholas Quinn, the third novel about Inspector Morse, moves outside the Colleges to an independent organisation - The Oxford Examinations Syndicate - which runs exams for overseas students.
It was published in 1977, and I had really hoped by now that Dexter would not still be viewing his female characters in such a shallow way.
Morse is frequently nowhere around when the narrator is pontificating.The reader may wonder whether it is worth reading these rather sad, sleazy novels, with the characters - including the coppers - indulging in voyeuristic viewings of a film about a busty nymphomaniac.
I have been assured by Colin Dexter fans that the Inspector Morse series gets better as it goes along and so I read the third book in the series, though not without qualms.
The case is as labyrinthine as the earlier two books in the series, but in this instalment Inspector Morse seems less like a bumbling fool and more like a man gifted with the ability to make intuitive leaps of deduction.
Of the three Colin Dexter books I have read in recent weeks, this was the most enjoyable.
It is up to Colin Dexter fans to convince me to keep on reading the series.
In this 3rd book of the Inspector Morse series, for the first time Morse reminds me of the PBS character played by John Thaw. He is less fumbling, although still capable of being wrong, and relies on his intuition less. Certain aspects of the murder seemed obvious, yet Dexter kept me guessing until the end. (view spoiler)[I was satisfied that Roope and Bartlett had done it so the last twist really took me by surprise!! (hide spoiler)]
i was a superior student in elementary and junior high school because, at my Mother's insistence, i had learned to read early, i collected stamps of the world, played monopoly on rainy days, and grew up in a fairly remote rural setting without a television.
we did have a radio which gave us wonderful rainy day stories like the Lone Ranger, The Shadow Knows, and Bobby Benson and the B bar B Boys.
i had been a whiz at math up until 9th grade, but with all these other new distractions i couldn't sustain my curiosity about the x's and o's and congruence and hypotenuses of advanced mathematics and soon lost interest.so it is for me with Colin Dexter's popular Inspector Morse detective stories.
The story begins when Nicholas Quinn gets appointed (not unanimously - because though he is qualified, he is deaf) as an administrator to Oxford's Foreign Examinations Syndicate.
Before long into the book, Nicholas is murdered.
Chief Inspector Morse and Lewis are on the case to figure out who from the closed group of Quinn's colleagues could be the murderer.
As the case progresses, it is interesting to see how Morse and Lewis slowly 'peel the onion' and get past the complex equations among Quinn's colleagues.
It is a story to read in a single sitting, because the plotting gets into quite a tangle.
I have a picture of the author with sticky notes all over his office trying to remember what each character had said and where they were supposed to be.I have enjoyed every one of Colin Dexter’s novels.
Still, the basic premise of a victim who relies on lip-reading would be more interesting if he had not died at the start of the book.
Never kill off your most interesting character with so many chapters to go.
Morse is still dislikeable, still a hypocrite, and the slut shaming is still existent. He goes so far as to slut shame a female character he'd wanted to sleep with. The plot though, still very good.
Fun, but I'm finding that the books (this is my third) are even more full of red herrings than the television series.
Activities such as sneaking off to see questionable films at a neighbouring cinema, for example, provide significant clues in the mystery that develops and to the true personalities of the characters involved.One stormy, dreadful day, Mr. Quinn is found murdered by cyanide in his sherry.
His intense need to solve the mystery always brings Morse back to the case, however, and he recognizes the importance of Quinn's ability to lip-read and begins to see the murder (and further developments) have much wider implications than personal attractions and dislikes and, in fact, point to corruption in the examination process that is international in scope.
One of the worst detective stories that I have ever read in my life!!
God!
I wish I never had read this utter gibberish in the first place.Nothing is coherent in this book.
Quinn is murdered because he could lip-read!!
This is a detective story of a kind that has no motive at all.
He has no valid clues, no motive, no clear M.O but keeps rambling on about what he thinks could have happened.
To listen to the ravings of a lunatic!My god!
Why didnt they bowlderize the language is something I cannot understand.In one sentence- Never read this potboiler, even if you have a death wish.
This was my third and last book by Colin Dexter.
I would love for someone to explain to me why these are interesting books.
I hate that about GA books, and I hate it in Dexter too.
I do not like Morse.
I've read other mysteries with detective protagonists I wasn't fond of, and they were OK (or even wonderful) because there was something, even it if was just interesting, about the protag.
I don't see anything interesting about Morse.
As I've said before, I like Lewis, his sidekick, but Lewis isn't interesting enough to carry these books.
The biggest reason I wanted to try these books was to get more details about Morse to compare them to the Masterpiece Mystery show "Endeavour" which is Morse as a young detective.
Some of the details are there, but I may have to read a couple more to get the kind of stuff I'm looking for.
The plots are pretty convoluted, but theses are not the kind of mystery novels where the reader tries to figure it out before Morse.
These are about how Morse goes about it, and about the characters involved.I will definitely read more of the Inspector in the future.
I first read Colin Dexter's Inspector Morse novels 20 years ago as and when I could find them in the library. I'm now reading then in chronological order.I enjoyed much of The Silent World of Nicholas Quinn. Three chapters from the end it was a four-star book for me, but the complex and artificial denouement - "telling" not "showing", took the edge off it for me.Still a good read, and I do recommend it, but not top drawer.
I am getting deep into detective fiction for some reason at the moment.... just happened... this perhaps wasn't the best one I have read. Seemed a little vague on details - motive for second murder especially, but also some of the character movements. However, great writing style learning for me generally in Dexter and James recently, for holding things back from the reader and twisting the plot in unexpected ways.... plus they are short! 50 books this year might be doable! More in the pile. :)
I've never watched Morse on TV, so I didn't have any expectations before I started reading this. The mystery was somehow too confusing in my opinion, but Morse is an interesting character, though a bit annoying sometimes. My favorite character was Quinn, who seemed like a good person. Maybe I'll try some other books from Colin Dexter someday.
As is typical with Colin Dexter's Inspector Morse novels, a great mystery yarn was muddled by sexual content and profanity. I have little to say about it other than that.
I have always loved Morse and did enjoy this story, but had worker out the killer early on, I have a feeling a may have seen it on tv :-).
An OK story, but the ending was tiresome and convoluted. By the time Morse explained everything, I didn't care who had done what to whom.
An excellent 'whodunit' read.
I wrote down clues as I read in hopes to discover the last man/woman standing.
I was close but no trip to "Horse & Trumpet Pub " to celebrate with a pint of bitters and a Dunhill cigarette.
Remember this mystery was published in 1977 in Oxford, England.
Colin Dexter was mid-forties when creating book #3 with Morris and Lewis working together for the Thames Valley CID.
Inspector Morris, is not the only intelligent person, as he soon realizes ,he is in the mist of a highly educated group of suspects,within The Foreign Examinations Syndicate.
Prepare for a challenging, enlightening, and sometimes abrasive mystery to solve.
Colin Dexter's plots are very similar to the best of Christie and Marsh -- he's been the only author I've read to match their ingenuity.
This one ultimately failed, but a good try and will definitely continue to read the series.
One other note: Dexter's writing is misogynistic.
Not sure if it improves over time, but in his first three novels his portrayal of women is troubling.
But, I'm of the school that recognizes it, makes a judgment, but doesn't dismiss the other good qualities.
Humanity is imperfect and full of shadows; we're a product of our time and our culture.
With an established Detective series I find that once I understand the motivation behind the central character and (in most cases) their sidekick I start to become more absorbed in how their relationship develops over each book and the cases almost become a secondary theme. I admit that it's taken the first three books for me to banish the almost indelible imagery of John Thaw/Kevin Whately and to start to appreciate the literary versions of Morse and Lewis as they were originally intended through Colin Dexter's descriptions, and in doing so I have found much to enjoy.
Tulihan tämäkin luettua, vaikka muistinkin juonen suurinpiirtein etukäteen, koska katsoin tv-sarjan uudestaan jokunen vuosi sitten, kun se tuli uusintana. Kirjojen Morse on aika äkkiäväärä tapaus, teeveessä sekä hän että Lewis olivat olivat paljon sympaattisempia. Muutenkin kirja tuntui jotenkin tuulahdukselta menneestä ja eikä ihme, sillä se on alunperin ilmestynyt jo vuonna 1977. Siksi huvitin itseäni kuvittelemalla kirjan henkilöt 70-lukulaiseen lookiin. Lisäksi oli mielenkiintoista huomata, että kirjassa Morse ajelee Lancialla eikä punaisella Jaguarilla niin kuin sarjassa.
Another improvement in quality of writing over the previous book, this time without the jumbled mess of an ending. However, it is replaced with Morse/Dexter explaining at great length to Lewis/the reader the intricacies of plot that we missed whilst attempting to reassure him/us that he/we were not stupid for doing so. My current feeling is that Dexter fancies himself as too clever for his own good, but we'll see how the series develops.
Much better than the first two books in the series. The relationship between Morse and Lewis is still in it’s infancy but is becoming established. The plot is interesting. The books are nothing like the series: Morse is very much a loner and there isn’t enough of Lewis.It is suprising how dated the book feels, undoubtedly contemporary at the time, today it is worth reading for the period feel.A good crime read
The third book I've read in the series still keeps the mistery. Who did it? I never know, till the very end. Inspector Morse is an interesting character, he's vain but not in the same league as Hercule Poirot. Lots of legging work are necessary to put him in the right way and yet many times he's misled and then we're disappointed and fooled, but we can't stop reading because we know there's not magic in an investigation and we want to know how and why and who.
This book started off slow and just when I was trying to think of another book to read, it got better. In all due respect to the late Colin Dexter, I found him to be just a bit long winded. I think of John Thaw as Inspector Morse. I could not relate to the conceited prickly old man from the book.
Started watching the BBC TV series and enjoyed the inspector very much. So I decided to take a stab at the books. In this book we have a much older Morse, more seasoned, serious and almost a completely character than the TV series. Still true to the authors ability, the murders and intertwined Story lines are as amazing as ever and enjoyable every moment.
I enjoy watching the PBS show Masterpiece Theater, especially when they show an old Inspector Morse mystery or its sequel , Inspector Lewis. Colin Dexter is the clever British novelist who penned the original books that were used to develop the screenplays. This was an interesting novel for me and I was not disappointed.
Excellent--Morse is just as sure of himself as always but he makes some poorly thought out intuitive leaps based on what he thinks he has deduced and finds himself having to retrace his steps more than once much to his (short-lived) chagrin. Morse is nothing if not supremely confident though so he muddles through. One of my favorites in the series.
