https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7723797-business-model-generation
From the experience in this book I would add that in the first place there is a design thinking needed to generate business models because you have to combine rational and intuitive thinking.
And in case of failure nobody gets hurt (well, the self-esteem of the author, maybe).If you are going to try to sketch your business model remember: the entire business model design process should be guided from a customer perspective.
And this is the greatest advantage of business model generation, you don't need to make a whole plan to see or realize if your idea/product/service works or not.The entire business model design process should be guided from a customer perspective.
The subtitle of this book says "A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers".
This is "A Handbook by Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers" and, in my opinion, "A Handbook for your boring conservative boss, the neighbourhood bakery selling the same old loafs of bread in the same shop for 30 years, the mayor of your incredibly dull town and for your parents".
This book singlehandedly makes up for all terribly designed books.
قرأت هذا الكتاب من أجل أن نقوم أنا وأعضاء مؤسسة عالم غراس بتطوير المؤسسة من أجل خلق قدرة تنافسية عال
On one hand, it's a visually beautiful book which introduces some thought-provoking and useful tools, like the Business Model Canvas.
On the other hand, for most subsequent chapters I felt like I was reading the same thing over and over again, with slight changes in the details.
In the end, it was useful but not as informative as I would like it to be.
Still, it's a good book for beginners, and a gorgeous one at that, and one can't help getting caught up in the genuine excitement the authors seem to have for business model innovation.
Business Model Generation is one of my first readings on economics.
(In my defense, I have prior experience with modeling in general, and some experience with economic models in comp.sci.
On the positive side, it's an easy-to-grasp, well-structured, richly illustrated book on the concepts, patterns, and processes that underlie the generation and use of business models.
I particularly enjoyed reading about the Business Model Canvas, which is a visual tool to describe and analyze business models.
I read with interest the Business Model Patterns, with summaries of six general business models.
As a consequence, I would rate this book as a beginner's guide into business models.
This book sometimes suffers a bit from style over substance.
Although a nice change from regular business books, the graphic design comes across as too eager to look trendy, and many of the illustrations aren't as illuminating as they first seem.
However, the book did provide me with a useful framework for thinking about my own business and that of my clients, which was exactly why I decided to purchase it.
I would say the case studies and examples are the book's strong point.
While reading this book, I got a few ideas that I might act on in the near future.
ملخص من ورشة عمل بعنوان : نموذج العمل - منتدى الغد- حاضنة بادر هذا الكتاب وضع من قبل عدد من المؤلفين ، وهو يشرح نموذج العمل ، كخطوة مسبقة لخطة العمل المفصلة .
كتابٌ مهمّ جدًا لكلّ باحثٍ عن خيوط البدايات لأي مشروعٍ تجاري. كما أنّه مهمّ أيضًا لكلّ صاحب مشروع اضطربت حساباته، أو تداخلت أوراقه.تكمن أهميته من كونه دليلًا عمليًا، حسن العرض والترتيب. يأخذ قارئه من بداية الفكرة إلى آلية التقييم والتعديل والتطوير.والحقيقة أنّه لا يُكتفى بقراءته مرة واحدة، بل يلزم إعادة قراءته ك CHECK LIST قبل أي بداية، وفي حال أي تقييم أو تغيير في عمل الشركة أو المؤسسة. وأمّا مخططاته فيمكن طباعتها وتكبيرها أو تصميمها لتكون خارطة طريق في مكاتب الإدارة. ملاحظة أخيرة حول الإسراف ف
كتابٌ مهمّ جدًا لكلّ باحثٍ عن خيوط البدايات لأي مشروعٍ تجاري. ‏كما أنّه مهمّ أيضًا لكلّ صاحب مشروع اضطربت حساباته، أو تداخلت أوراقه.‏تكمن أهميته من كونه دليلًا عمليًا، حسن العرض والترتيب. يأخذ قارئه من بداية الفكرة إلى ‏آلية التقييم والتعديل والتطوير.‏والحقيقة أنّه لا يُكتفى بقراءته مرة واحدة، بل يلزم إعادة قراءته ك‎ CHECK LIST‏ قبل أي ‏بداية، وفي حال أي تقييم أو تغيير في عمل الشركة أو المؤسسة. ‏وأمّا مخططاته فيمكن طباعتها وتكبيرها أو تصميمها لتكون خارطة طريق في مكاتب الإدارة. ‏ملاحظة أخيرة حول الإسراف في بعض الفصول في ضرب الأمثلة وشرح الواضح المفهوم، كما ‏الإسراف في تكرار صور المخطّطات‏

CanvasBusiness Model Generation is simply the go-to book for developing a business model.
"A business model describes the rationale of how an organisation creates, delivers and captures value".
I've drawn up numerous business plans in the past and they serve only one purpose, to raise money, and then they become scrap.
"Planning is everything the plan is nothing." The business models you will develop using this methodology will become a living and dynamic insight and validation that your company is on the right track and knows where it is going.
The business model canvass is very popular in startup circles, however, after reading the book, a lot of people are doing it wrong or have admittedly repurposed the canvass to into how they do business.I'm sure other ideas surrounding the development of a business model canvass, Ash Maurya has a completely different approach that works with his commitment to rapid MVP development and testing, are useful but they are very different than what's posited in this book.
I highly recommend reading this book to get the context behind the business model canvass.This book is both powerful and actionable.
For example, Apple iPod / iTunes, Skype, Lego, Amazon web services, Wii from Nintendo.If you are wondering how to create an innovative business or change an old one, be sure to start by reading this book.
I recommend the book as super as possible.-----------------------------------------Книгу "Построение бизнес-моделей" можна смело назвать "библией", настоящей настольной книгой для иноваторов и предпринимателей.
Например, Apple iPod/iTunes, Skype, Lego, веб-сервисы Amazon, Wii от Nintendo.Если вам интересно, как создавать инновациооный бизнес или изменить старый обязательно начните с прочтения этой книгой.
I read books on Scribd or Google Books by Readlax Chrome Extension
Un ottimo libro con degli ottimi metodi per ideare, sviluppare e testare un modello di business esistente o da creare.Una lettura consigliata a chiunque si occupi di queste cose o anche solo ne venga saltuariamente in contatto
مع أني ما لي في الإدارة ولا كتبها بس هذا الكتاب كان تجربة جميلةمفيد لأصحاب المشاريع خاصة لمن يريد تطويرهامكتوب بطريقة شيقة جداأعطاني فكرة لا بأس بها عن عالم الأعمالأكثر شيء عجبني في الكتاب إنه يعطي طرقا عملية وتقنيات (وليس مجرد كلام أو نظريات فارغة أو قصص ملهمة)ء
Books like this help me realize that you can go very deep into business model generation and business strategy.
This is a great in-depth guide to understanding one of the best business model tools out there: The Business Model Canvas.It takes common design principles like storytelling and prototyping and brings that to business model generation.
The book is very nicely designed and also offers a range of helpful tips on business strategy.
The SWOT analysis section in particular is excellent at helping you think about how to improve your business model.This would be very helpful to read if you’re either starting a new business or looking to improve an existing one.
The way I interpreted the title and the recommendation, I anticipated a book full of charts with different business models to skim over and select the one that fit your vision.For instance, if you had this many employees in your vision, or this many products, then these are some models mapped out for you to see how they flowed.That was not what this book was at all.
They were vague ideas.I'm a visual person, and I was anticipating a book with the models drawn out and I could plug in my own specifics and go forward.It's still a great book, it's just not what I had in mind.
Reading In Progress: So far a lot of great book design with pages with awful book design.
Whoever said that this book has great design is THE liar (~ableist asshole ~ knows shit about what good design is).
Photos with text in it is awful.
It might be acceptable if the text in those photos was highlighted to provide good enough contrast.
The book itself might contain good, may be even great, information but the designer killed it.This isn't the first book which I gave one star because of #SH!/tty book design.

Reduces business to four essential components namely; offer, infrastructure, financial viability and customer interface. These components are spread out on a big picture visual canvas called "The business model canvas" which enables us to see crucial connections and relationships within the business. This book also incorporates classic strategic management tools like PEST analysis and SWOT analysis to further enhance the value of this book. This has to be the best business book I have come across yet!A seven star business book :-)
I recently completed the design thinking course at Stanford and was compelled to read this after seeing the author there. It's a summary of the design thinking decision process in relation to all business models. An intuitive and inspiring examination which is easily actionable after a single read.The overall approach appears to borrow heavily from IDEO; however, doesn't appear to sufficiently credit them..nevertheless, it's quite simply...brilliant.
إذا بدي اكتب عن هالكتاب فيمكن اكتب كتاب كامل عن التجربة والعظمة.محتوى الكتاب بعطيه عشرة من عشرة وتصميم الكتاب والصفحات عشرة من عشرة بدون أي مبالغة.كل صفحة عبارة عن رحلة. كل صفحة عم تجاوبني عن سؤال كان ببالي. صرت بآخر صفحة والكتاب عم يجاوبني لحتى وصلت لآخر سؤال.بالنسبة إلي كان هالكتاب من أمتع تجارب حياتي. فعلاً مو طبيعي.ما بحب التمجيد بالكتب والمنتجات, بس من ورا الكنز يلي جوا هالكتاب أنا متمني روح اتشكر المؤلفين والمصممين يلي ساووه.
I absolutely love this elegant workbook – both its design and the ideas. It takes the nine pieces of a business model – customer segments, value propositions, channels, customer relationships, revenue streams, key resources, key activities, key partnerships, and cost structure – and gives you ideas, questions, activities and examples to generate ideas in each area. Work through this book if you’re thinking about starting a business and the result is far more likely to be successful.
Once i understand the concept, once i understand it all.
Great book for anyone is in the phase of a startup!!!
من اهم الكتب الخاص بريادي الاعمال يساعد في وضع تصور كامل للمشروع و كما انه يعتبر من أكثر النماذج مرونه و دقة لا غنى لاي صاحب مشروع عن هذا الكتاب
A useful induction into business models, how they're built and the disciplines necessary to be able to create and implement one.
http://www.ymc.mn/ Байгууллага хэрхэн үнэ цэнийг бүтээж, түгээж, улмаар өөртөө үнэ цэнийг бий болгох байгааг Бизнес модель харуулдаг.*****CANVAS*****Бүрдүүлэгч 9 зүйл1.
Жнь: Хэвлэлийн салбар Lulu.com, LEGOMulti-Sided Platforms - Олон талт платформХоёр буюу түүнээс дээш харилцан хамааралтай хэрэглэгчийн бүлгүүдийг нэг дор нэгтгэдэг.Үнэ цэнэ: Нэг хэрэглэгчийн бүлэгт хэрэгцээтэй өөр хэрэглэгчийн бүлэг нэг платформд байдаг нь.Үнэ цэнээ хэрхэн бүтээх вэ: бүлэг хоорондын харилцааг идэвхжүүлж, өрнүүлснээрҮнэ цэнээ нэмэх нь: платформд илүү олон хэрэглэгчийг татаж, сүлжээ үүсгэснээрХэрэглэгчийн сегмент бүр нь ялгаатай орлогын урсгал авчирдаг.
Зарим хэрэглэгчийн сегментэд үнэгүй үйлчилгээ санал болгож болно, энэ нь бусад сегментээс олох орлогод шингэсэн байдаг.
Үнэгүй санал дээр суурилсан олон талт платформ.
As a product manager, it's helpful to think not just about a differentiated product, but about how you are creating an initiative that enables your business to be successful. While most business books only have one good idea, this book has two! 1. build a canvas of your business to understand how all the parts fit together (customer, sales channel, income, value proposition, key activities, key resources, partners, expenses). 2. understand several different template business models with real examples to see how the parts of the canvas work together.
Describes and visualises many concepts and tools that can be deadly important. Especially for incumbent firms. They need the courage to continually review their business model(s) and strategy, to widely seek inspiration for new business model and test them through prototyping etc. This book can seem very simple, but my impression is that you can read it on different layers of depth depending on your general knowledge of this theoretical space.
There's lots of good advice here, though as a product it's over-designed in the way some solutions are over-engineered. This is neither a book nor a slide deck, but something in between. It's pretty, sits well on a coffee table, and provides a nice extended illustration for the HBR article "Reinventing your Business Model".
