https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211888.Where_Do_We_Go_from_Here
Written a year before his death, “Chaos or Community?”, King is very much still in favor of non-violent protest, but he is far more pessimistic about how quickly true equality can happen.
While critical of separatism and the Black Power movement of the time as self defeating and unrealistic in a society where people of all colors are economically interdependent, he is highly critical of Whites who pay lip service to equality but when it comes to Black families moving into their neighborhoods, working along side of them, or marrying their sons and daughters, their enlightened attitudes quickly evaporate.
Here, a modern martyr lays bare his soul and we find that he suffers greatly.The subject matter of the book - including King's take on Black Power, white backlash, northern racism and the Vietnam War - is tough.
The fact that King addresses it unflinchingly, without his typical penchant for focusing almost exclusively on the positive, makes this a tougher but more meaningful read, too.Yet, the power of his soul force - his unique, courageously lonely and transcendent morality - is inspiring.
As you read it, it is very hard not to sense his sense of his impending demise, which makes it such an important book for us all to appreciate.
In turn, some of King's white supporters had become disillusioned by his criticism of the Vietnam War and by what they saw as the increased stridency of the movement, creating a "backlash".In his book, King emphasizes the need for social and economic justice and for political power among the disadvantaged, both black and white.
He also argues eloquently that work in the modern age should not be a matter of mere drudgery or subsistence but should serve human needs and spiritual growth.In the book's final chapter, King carries his vision still further to apply to the poor and marginalized throughout the world and not simply in the United States.Some readers familiar only with sanitized accounts and the "I have a dream" speech many be surprised by the militancy of King's vision.
Read for class.I am astonished, perhaps amazed by Dr. King's thoughts. His transcendent non-violent morality, as well as his world-weary readiness for martyrdom are both apparent here. This was written after the momentous Civil Rights victory, and his efforts shifted from organizational and de facto instead of de jure racism. In short, the problems which still plague most of the black community today. If only he was alive a little bit longer. Much has been done to solve these problems in America, but there is still much to be done. Invaluable.
At this point, in early 1967, he took a sabbatical for 4 weeks and finished this book - the title starkly framing the road ahead and the stakes involved.King's agenda for the near future, as outlined in his writing, was, he knew, bound to bring discomfort especially to the somewhat passive white support he had received to date.
We forgot what we knew daily in the South: freedom is not given, it is won."King argues again his convictions that non-violent resistance was the only way forward in a rebuttal to the Black Panther perspective.
No idea where all my notes went, but Dr. King cites lots of economic evidence in favor of a Basic Universal (aka Citizen's) Income.This book should be required reading for all Americans starting in elementary school.The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was working for not only Negro civil rights, but for economic rights for all poor people when he was cut down prematurely.
His mantle falls to all of us to pick up...p6: quotes Hyman Bookbinder economic opportunity statement 29 december 1966 -not that difficult to erradicate poverty in the US if we had the will.Read, Write, Dream, Teach !ShiraDest19 February, 12016 HE
I bought this book when I was a junior in high school to understand the Civil Rights movement and find out about Martin Luther King Jr. in his own words rather than in what the mainstream media was saying about him. People forget that King was hated by many people in white America, and his message was often distorted by the media. He was especially condemned by the white (and black) establishment after he gave a 1967 speech opposing the Vietnam War.
Desegregation was but one aspect of his vision to eliminate the "giant triplets" of poverty, racism, and militarism from this earth.
King's last book makes painfully clear how much work he believed remained for American society in 1967, and it is hard to imagine he would approve of the state of the union in 2015, black president or no.Although many have invoked the president as a sign that we as a society are integrated, King would point to the fact that the wealth gap between blacks and whites has nearly tripled in the past 25 years.
We have created a narrative of MLK, Jr. as a peacemaker who wanted races to get along.
This book speaks to his beliefs on nonviolence, but goes so much deeper on what he actually believed was happening to the country on a racial and economic level.
There were times I felt like I was reading a book about current day 2017.
If you need a book to ground you in some spiritual, profound truths about our country, go back in time.
You'll find solace in MLK's words, validation about specific beliefs and a call to action.
An unquestionably important book. MLK's writing is incredibly coherent and well-structured. His ideas are definite, well-supported, and effective. It is distressing to read about problems that concerned him in the '60s that are still the same today, but this highlights the timelessness of MLK's thoughts. We could use more leaders today who have MLK's unique gifts: the triple threat of brilliant insight, clarity of expression, and authenticity (proven through a demonstrated commitment to act on his beliefs).
A thought provoking, challenging, timeless classic. Dr. King's last book, written in 1967, prophetically addressed issues then and today in 2017. His invitation to nonviolent principles, as well as repentance from societal and Christian complacency in the presence of racism, poverty, and militarism is powerful. The reality that decades have passed and we neither listened nor learned, is sobering. THIS IS A MUST READ for anyone concerned with ending injustice around the world AND at home.
We celebrate his holiday and put his picture everywhere and deliver our hosannahs, but there’s still a striking amount of ignorance regarding the life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr. The ignorance is on the right, of course: acknowledging the full depth of King’s achievement means in some way agreeing with the progressive project (and the modern Trump wing will have nothing to do with freedom, equality, justice, etc… it’s all about gettin’ the libs!).
This book is awesome. A lot of what he covers still applies today. Its amazing how far we've come yet how far we have to go.
Focusing on the ultimate goal, and discovering it still distant, they declare no progress has been made.""The hard truth is that neither the Negro nor white has yet done enough to expect the dawn of a new day.
Freedom is won by a struggle against suffering.""Like life, racial understanding is not something that we find but something that we must create.
And so the ability of Negros and whites to work together, to understand each other, will not be found ready-made; it must be created by the fact of contact.""One of the most agonizing problems of human experience is how to deal with disappointment.
What if MLK sat down with Bernie Sanders?  I can't be the only one to wonder, reading this on the eve of what is hopefully the ugliest Election Day of my lifetime.The scope of MLK's vision is far larger than I ever thought. Probably the most emphasized point in this book is: Racial equality means absolute economic equality, and on this point both Black and White America can unite. In his own words:Negro programs go beyond race and deal with economic inequality, wherever it exists. In the pursui
Now one can actually level some legitimate complaints at MLK here, along the lines of quantitative science, for instance: [The guaranteed income] must be pegged to the median income of society.
Communism is a judgement on our failure to make democracy real and to follow through on the revolutions that we initiated.Secretary Clinton, please please please take notes!!!!!!Last thought, and a much thornier one to answer: MLK's premises appear to be based on Judeo-Christian and Western Humanist (and maybe Dualist?) traditions.Every man lives in two realms, the internal and the external.
was written during a writing retreat and published in the year before King's murder, so I hoped it would reflect his "later" thinking.I was most struck by King's thoughtful approach to strategic disagreement within the Civil Rights Movement.
I suspect his engagement may have read as paternalistic instead of understanding in the greater context of King's powerful role at that time, but all the same I was moved by the 'active listening' style that maintained solidarity despite some deep disagreements.
Read this book for its historical value, but for next steps, I would recommend going from the platforms of modern Black activists and scholars instead of King's 1967 "here".
In many ways this book is an evolution and 360 transformation from MLK Jr earlier work and philosophies.
He acknowledges how the civil rights movement one dimensionally addressed the issues of the South, but ignored the struggles of the Northern urban cities.
He discusses the split between him and Stokely Carmichael.
The books discusses everything from poor housing, to education inequality to unnecessary war to capitalism.
Finally the book gives strategies on how to actually achieve Freedom, still focus on the non violent movement , but emphasizes the need for unity, mass involvement and ORGANIZING.
This book is instructive, as a clear example of persuasive language, as a record of the cogent intelligence behind King's speeches, and as a document that maps the main issues that motivated King and catalyzed his leadership.
He talks about what the civil rights movement accomplished, their present in 1967, and the actions they should take in the future on several fronts.
These areas include education, housing, employment, and rights, in a global struggle against poverty and racism.
It is obvious from the book that King had a relentless, ferocious, force of mind.
Written in 1967, "Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community" charts what should have been the next phase in Dr. King's work, clearly directing us to the need for a concentrated effort on poverty and economic social justice.
Reading these words in 2012 leaves one cold - for all the progress the civil rights era brought to America, on these economic issues we may as well be standing still.
"Where do we go from Here: Chaos or Community" is a must read to get a full picture of Dr. King's understanding of history, his present day, and what could have been...
Very insightful and so timely after the 2016 presidential election. King deftly illustrates the path to community through nonviolent action in the name of social justice. And stresses the need to reject racism, materialism, and militarism that lead to into chaos. Loved it.And the 2010 edition has a poignant intro written by Vincent Harding.
Way ahead of its time. King's final book -- shows his evolution from 1963's I Have a Dream speech. Very insightful. A side of King that is not discussed.
powerful, serious, and still deeply relevant today
Such wisdom.
King's last book offers a great view of the breadth of his activism and thinking
“The self cannot be self without other selves.” Compare this with Levinas: “The invisible death faced by the face of the other,” he states, “summons me, demands me, claims me” as if her death were “my business.” Responsibility, Levinas asserts, precedes subjectivity.Earlier in the book, King speaks at length about Black Power and the practicality of nonviolent direct action when it comes to the success of social justice efforts.
I used to take MLK day off in personal protest since my former employer didnt deem it necessary to recognize with anything but minimal mention. Id usually devote the day to some kind of service, and would make sure my Out of Office shared my intentions. Now that I am living a life of service, I didnt need to take off because its an honor and a privilege to be the dream in action. And I get to do it as a representative of the same America that despised his work... what irony, what an honor!If you
I used to take MLK day off in personal protest since my former employer didn´t deem it necessary to recognize with anything but minimal mention.
I´d usually devote the day to some kind of service, and would make sure my Out of Office shared my intentions.
Now that I am living a life of service, I didn´t need to take off because it´s an honor and a privilege to be the dream in action.
It changed my life, and how I see that great man.
This still feels like the solution for the biggest problems of today. I wish I had read it much sooner.
There must be a climate of social pressure in the Negro community that scorns the Negro who will not pick up his citizenship rights and add his strength enthusiastically and voluntarily to the accumulation of power for himself and his people.”“Up to recently we have proceeded from a premise that poverty is a consequence of multiple evils: lack of education restricting job opportunities; poor housing which stultified home life and suppressed initiative; fragile family relationships which distorted personality development.
He also criticizes those black activists who want to cut ties with whites, pointing out that no minority can accomplish anything without enlisting the majority in their support, and without active collaboration.Mostly, though, the problems to be solved then and now were economic.
But just like the ambivalence King pointed out in these pages between democratic and racist beliefs, there is a division in American life between conscious belief in equality and an unconsciously maintained economic system that relies on a supply of cheap labor -- people must work in their own self-interest to actively keep a class of economic inferiors suppressed, while unaware that they're contradicting their expressed commitment to giving everyone a fair shake.
We read this together with our church's reading group. Written in 1967, this is the last book Dr. King wrote before being assassinated in 1968. The title alone felt important for our current political climate in the U.S. I will write a longer review soon, but for now I'll say that this as provocative and prescient as anything I've ever read/heard from Dr. King. I'm grateful for the group of thoughtful people who were willing to read along with me, and engage in the deep conversations the book initiates.More at my blog: http://www.tamarahillmurphy.com/blogt...
