https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30240.A_Caress_of_Twilight
(Most of time.) What I am actually doing is reading one of these horrible books and eating pretzels, periodically cajoling Mark into bringing me drinks.
I love them.Here's the story so far: Fabulous faerie princess Merry, despite being fabulous and awesome and great and having the biggest boobs in the kingdom (not a joke), is hated by lots of other nasty faeries.
Despite this key fact, her aunt, the Dark Queen of Faeries, says that she, Merry, can be queen if she can get pregnant.
These craptastic gothic wank-rags routinely top the New York Times bestseller list.
Meh....There are good and bad sides to being a very thorough and articulate writer.
The good side is how very detailed the fictional creatures are.
It is easy to get a good mental image on all of the amazing fae creatures that are described in the books.
And, they are really intriguing.But, the bad side is how detailed inconsequential things can be written.
oh, you get the point.On the whole, not a lot happened in this book.
It feels like a filler-book where the author desperately tried to draw things out by filling the pages with endless descriptions or conversations.
I enjoyed this a little less than the first one. The ending was pretty fantastic though!
Obviously, I disliked the first one enough that I had to immediately read the second! ;) These are light, fluffy, and fun reads, albeit full of dark subject matter.
It's rather problematic to remember what the plot actually is, because it appears only intermittently among the couplings, among lengthy and tedious character descriptions, and among interminable scried conversations with various royals that seem to have little point except to show what complete bastards they all are except our Merry -- who might well be just as much a bastard if she could ever stay upright long enough, but that's only a wild speculation on this reviewer's part, you understand.Lemme think, now.
Merry figures out who the murderer is by asking one of her men, who conveniently knows about the Elder Man. This is a guardsman she is talking to; not that he wouldn't know, but half the fun with the mystery is INVESTIGATING, not having solutions fall into the character's lap.6) Merry comes off as an idiot.
Hamilton comes up with some beautiful descriptions, and the confrontations can be pretty satisfying (Meredith's mirror-argument with her bitch of a mother is a great example.) But good God, things can get tedious.
It's as if Hamilton has exactly one tool for plot development, and that's to have the characters argue until the reader understands what's happening and wishes everyone would move the heck on.The book also could have used a good editor to point out some overused phrases.
Hamilton falls in love with the accusation "..and well you know it!" around the middle of the book, and uses about three times a chapter.
However, Meredith has come into her own, and she is definitely not one to be tread upon lightly, as a few of her encounters with The Queen of Air and Darkness show.What I really love about this series is that the fae are NOT these cute little people who help humans in need.
Even Doyle and Frost, as close to heroes as a character can be, remind the reader in some startling ways not to use human benchmarks to judge their actions.And yes, there is sex in the book--but it does not detract from the gist of the story.
While this wasn't quite as good as the first book, I still enjoyed it.
I really don't get why people write about these books as though they are porn.
There really isn't hardly any blatant sex at all.
It isn't just mindless screwing, there is a point to it, and Merry genuinely has feelings for them.I don't get the fuss, personally.
This one did have a bit too much description about the glamour of the sidhe, or just lengthy descriptions of clothes, etc.But I still enjoyed it and plan to read the others in the series.
3 1/2 stars. Still thinking on how I feel about this series and if it's worth it to continue.
I picked this series up because it had been tagged RH, I am at my RH phase so I went all for it.
I didn't really enjoy this one, it felt real long but with nothing happening.
It was basically maneuvering through the intricacies of politics between the two courts, lots of mirror talk and then sex, not even good sex, just plain old sex.
I wanted RH,where the characters show their commitment to the heroine but everyone seems to be on their own,they are all working towards their agenda and I did not like that.
At this point, i'm not sure if i'll continue.
Merry is a Fae Princess and heir to the Unseelie throne but she needs to conceive a child to lock her place on the throne down.
Luckily, she's the Princess of Flesh and sexy time is kinda her thing.
I mean, not a bad lot in life.
She also happens to be a private detective (this series mirrors her other Anita Blake series heavily in a lot of ways) and heavily involved in Fae politics.
Since this is a book two I'm not going to go too into detail but there was a whole heck of a lot less sexy time and a lot more plotting and blood letting in this one.
Yeah, I read it. Almost didn't finish it as it was not nearly as intriguing as the previous book. But it wasn't bad after I got 1/3 of the way in.
3.5. I like this series.I get why so many people don't like it and find it strange and odd, why they don't like the character and what and how she does stuff. But I, for one, like plots that are a bit strange, those books that not everyone likes. The complex lore, the weird history, the logical-but-heartless kind of thinking. This is that sort of series. If you like that, continue with the books. If not, well, there are a lot of books out there that you will love! :)
È così che, in questo secondo romanzo, entreremo ancora più nel vivo dei giochi di potere delle fate di due corti rivali, intrighi e morti misteriose, per non parlare della personale situazione sentimentale.
Meredith avrà un bel po’ da fare!Come potete immaginare, anche questo libro mi è piaciuto un sacco!La storia continua da dove eravamo rimasti in “Un bacio nell’ombra”.Meredith è riuscita a sventare i piani del cugino di assassinarla, che inoltre era colui dietro gli incantesimi della sua cliente.
In questo libro non solo conosceremo altri aspetti del mondo delle corti e delle sue creature, ma inizieremo a conoscere gli uomini che circondano Merry.
Everyone I talked to recommends this series to me and I just can not get it for a couple of reasons.
Maybe it's because there is so much freaking detail with every aspect of each court and each character and why certain people can talk to others and how she has to act certain ways with each person.
I also don't like Fae books in general.
I don't like the casualness of sex.
I mean casual sex is fine but there was a part in this book where one of the guards sleeping with Merry fooled around with someone else because it would have been rude not to.
Well, this book certainly sucked me in and I don't have a clue when it happened.
Her journey is very interesting, especially to see how she is coming into her powers and how she is learning to be a Queen.
They are all good guys but enough different that there should be one you will like.
I like how we are still learning bits and pieces of them too.
The sex scenes weren't bad.
The scene with Kitto wasn't as bad as I thought.
I liked seeing how Merry stood up to them and I'm looking forward to the next book.
I liked the setup of the first book in the series and looked forward to learning more about the world.
Rather grating if you're looking for the plot to move forward.
I'm glad I finally got to dabble in the books since I heard so much about the author and her series but I think this will probably be my last Merry Gentry book.
Merry is a wonderful main character - tough in her own right, intelligent but always learning more, open to new experiences and fully embracing where her life is heading.
A Caress of Twilight doesn't spend a lot of time rehashing the events and world-building from A Kiss of Shadows, which I appreciate reading the books one right after the other.
But, if a lot of time has past since reading the first book, a refresher may be in order.
Let's not kid ourselves here. While I love the fae aspect to this book, I read it only for the sex. And day-um are there some luscious men in here. The kinky stuff just makes it all that much hotter. Recommended for kinky women who fantasy having a harem of studly men.
No, it’s definitely not sweetness and light in the Unseelie Court, but as Merry points out, they are more honest than the Seelie.
A fear too many of the guard have.Interesting contrast: Merry and Galen’s fertility ritual is a success and yet the fae are dying.The StoryAn unexpected and very dangerous client wants Merry and her men for an even more unexpected reason.
Taranis Thunderer is the King of Light and Illusion of the Seelie Court and Merry’s great-uncle who set aside his second wife of a hundred years, Conan of Cuala, because she didn’t bear him a child.
It's been quite a while since I read the first in this series. And, while I think Ms Hamilton has a great imagination and writes very believable action scenes, the book feels dated for some reason. However, I do like Merry and want to see more of her. Solid 2nd book in the series.
Again, I had a hard time liking this series.
I did finished the second book and I really really want to like it or rate it with 5 stars.
It wasn’t because of the narration this time, it was because somethings were missing.
I’m no expert but I wanted something to stir things up.
It was like with too much characters, emotions were left out.
I have no complain about merry having seven lovers.
Nothing that sent me like a teenage girl giggling over her crush.
I guess just having plain sex with seven lovers with no intense emotion, just plain attraction wasn’t my thing.
(Original review, graded 1-3)Summary (2): Most sequels — especially movies, but book series as well — fall apart because success breeds imitation.
The original, A Kiss of Shadows, dealt heavily with faerie politics, kinky sex, kinky faerie sexual politics, and how poor half-sidhe princess Meredith manages to survive the murderous machinations of her cousin Cel and the sadistic powerplays of her aunt, Queen Andais, mistress of the Unseelie Court.
Bene, sono molto contenta di poter tornare a parlarvi della mia autrice preferita, e in particolare del secondo libro della serie di Meredith Gentry!Nel primo si era parlato del “ritorno alle origini” della principessa Unsseelie, che viene eletta possibile erede al trono della Regina della corte fatata (cosa alquanto strana, considerando che la regina Andias non ha mai fatto mistero dell’odio verso la nipote).
Comunque Meredith è in lizza assieme a suo cugino Cel, un mezzo psicopatico sadico, e il trono andrà al primo che sfornerà un erede alla corte… non male eh?A questo scopo, la Regina ha pensato bene di prestare a Merry i suoi Corvi… sia per protezione personale che come papabili padri del nascituro.
Pena que a sua tarefa avizinha-se tudo menos fácil.Com toda a extravagância, carga sexual e até violência que são características dos seres feéricos, é com alguma tensão e avidez que vamos seguindo o desenrolar da vida de Merry.
O acto sexual é um acto de poder e no contexto destas obras, penso que as torna ainda mais únicas.Sou da opinião que é uma saga que vale a pena ler, a escrita da autora é leve e contagiante, com capítulos pequenos, o que faz com que seja mesmo muito difícil largar a sua leitura.
These stories have two tracks: politics in the royal courts of the faerie world, and murder mysteries.
When I read the first book, I was a little overwhelmed by all the faerie politics, and I wasn't sure if I wanted to continue with the series.But I did, and I'm glad I did.
But the intrigue gets interesting in book #2, as the lead character, Meredith Gentry, gets more power and becomes even more politically savvy.The race to the throne will be decided by who produces an heir first.
The series has some good points however I see some things I had seen in Anita that I see here, except maybe a bit more subtle.
I can't decide who I want Merry to have a child with, I'm sort of rooting for Doyle aka Darkness, but who knows maybe there will be a new player.
I don't think they are going away quite yet, and after what happened in this book I'm unsure of what's going to happen with the men.
I'm unsure if I'd make comparison between Anita and Merry's books had I read them not knowing the same author wrote it.
I don't usually like books about the fey as the ones I've read in the past have been so disappointing but this series has totally changed my mind, it's just really fun, easy reading urban fantasy.Kick ass heroine with awesome cool powers - checkRich, magical world with fantastic creatures - checkSteamy sex with a bunch of yummy immortals - checkThere's a lot to love about his series.
Granted the plot isn't particularly special and there's a lot (like seriously a lot) of sex but it all adds to the fun.
Bahaha, these books are so bad.
Like embarrassingly bad.
Like, at night when I'm reading before bed, I try to shield my Kindle with my body so my boyfriend can't see what I'm reading over my shoulder bad.
That's really bad.There are basically two things going on here at once.
Secondly, Meredith is also a private investigator, which forms the basis of the individual plot for each book.
I'll totally admit here that the PI plots are super boring and I mostly just skim over those.
I'm all about the faerie sex.And...
Don't expect anything amazing, just faerie romance.
