https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116256.Patternmaster
The coolest thing about this very good read is Butler’s ability to create a world intrinsic to itself; the author has crafted a unique, distinctive culture that is alien to us but contextually correct for the world she has built.
Butler’s biography denotes a strong, singular personality and this comes through in her writing.
Butler also explores themes of interdependence, social status and even slavery.
These complex characterizations and intricate group dynamics provide a greater depth and maturity to what is a fine science fiction story to begin with.If you enjoy SF/F or any variation of speculative fiction, you NEED to read Butler's work.
Society remains scattered and non-industrial, and power is divided between the Patternists, a network of linked human telepaths who can kill at a distance, and the Clayarks, now completely transformed into intelligent, sphinx-like animals with extreme strength, speed, and agility but no special mental powers.
The losers in this future world are the mutes, non-pyschic humans who are treated more like pets or servants by the Patternists.The story centers around Teray, a young Patternist who is one of the many sons of aging Patternmaster Rayal, and Coransee, an older Patternist who is also a son of Rayal and a powerful Housemaster in his own right.
What I did not expect was that the Clayark evolution would basically turn those people into animals – albeit really smart human-like animals – and that they would have no real purpose to their existence save tobe obstacles for the protagonists.
Their humanity was almost completely stripped away, despite them fighting so hard to maintain what they could of it in Clay’s Ark.This book focused otherwise entirely on the Patternists.
Apparently, the Clay’s Ark spaceship was the pinnacle of human technology, and, also served as the downfall of the species.
She became his favorite author, and he went so far as to name his cat after her.Patternmaster was Butler's first book, the one she started to write when she was 10 years old after seeing a horrible science fiction movie on TV and deciding that she could do better.The book is about a psychic race, people who are connected by an enormous, complex mental web that links each and every "patternist." At the center of the web is the Patternmaster, a powerful man with amazing psychic powers.The Patternmaster, Rayal, is close to death, and this book is the tale of the conflict between two of his many sons over who will succeed Rayal and become the new Patternmaster.
The premise of all the books in this series was fascinating. I read them in their story order, as opposed to the order in which Butler wrote them (apparently Patternmaster was first, and the other three books were prequels). I found the ending of Patternmaster a little unsatisfying after so much buildup in the previous books, but this makes more sense now that I know how she actually wrote them. Fascinating stories that I will continue to think about -- the best kind of sci-fi.
I could not get my mind off this series....the connection of the stories, but I think I understand. The suggested reading order of these novels makes since to Mi now, Wildseed and Mind of my mind gives you the story of how the patternist came to be, all because of Doro. And the people from Clay's Ark and the Patternist are rivals and these two different stories are actually happening at the sametime, in the same world. I think it's a brilliant concept, if I'm right of course.
Grade: BThe Patternist series has been great fun to read, especially in suggested order rather than order of publication. This was the first published book of the series. The story was very good, although I was disappointed that there weren't more tie-ins to the other books (which really demonstrates how well Butler expanded the world in later-published prequels). The major themes of power, gender, human relationships, and slavery were there and illuminating as ever. There is so much more to explore and expand in the Patternist/Clayark/Mute world--I just wish she would have written more books in this series!
This was not the best book in the series, however Butler wrote this book first and after reading the other books you get a sense that she had vision and great storytelling skills which she used to go back and write the other books. A great sci-fi experience overall.
In the intervening years, publishers (and maybe Ms. Butler herself) re-released the books with numbers indicating the series should be read in a chronological order, the timeline beginning in the 16th century and ending many centuries into the future.
When we open, the patternmaster, Rayal, has been critically injured in a clayark attack, and the heir to his position is being disputed among his many children, most of whom are powerful housemasters.Our protagonist is Teray, a promising young student of outsized talents but modest ambitions, a prodigy at school who just wants to run a minor house on the pattern with a few mutes and some wives.
Still really into this Patternmaster series. Got a little more difficult to get through toward the end (books 1 & 2 were my favorite) but I still was glad to see it through. What a story arc she wove. Will have to read more Butler.
But it was hard to see how it would fit in.Patternmaster resolves that, & gives some hope for Anyanwu’s descendants.At first I thought it wouldn’t - everyone was so cutthroat & there was no higher purpose than survival.
It felt like dystopian humans with superpowers - not really better than regular humans.
Perhaps Doro & Anyanwu’s descendants have found the right combination of both of their gifts to thrive.I do wish we understood what Doro was better when we left this.
Patternmaster was so disappointing.
I learned that Octavia e Butler wrote this story first, and the other books were to explain the origin of Patternmaster, a sci-fi dystopian.
I was expecting an all out war between the ClayArks and Patternist, but this was just politics.
The plot moved fast, and I wasn't able to attach to any characters.
I think that this book was mainly plot based and the character development was side lined.The ClayArks were not really in this story much, so I didn't get to see how they developed mentally, which was very disappointing.I love this world.
Read this as the final book in the in-universe chronological order. (Seed to Harvest order) This affected my reading of the story, helping to tie together what had been two very separate narratives among the previous books. That said, I wonder if it would be better to read this series in publication order; going back in time and enjoying Butler's development as a writer might be more rewarding. That said, it was amazing to see the seeds of the other books planted in the space of one paragraph.
Patternmaster is the last book in this series by internal chronology, but it was the first published -- in fact, Butler's first published novel -- and it shows.There is actually a fifth book in this series, Survivor, but it's never been reprinted because Butler decided it wasn't good enough.
But it wasn't, and there aren't even any interesting ideas to chew on, not compared to the other Patternist books.What makes the rather boring premise so much worse is that I really, really hated Teray.
The only help is that Amber is still around (having, for some inexplicable reason -- maybe Teray is just really really cute?
I can't believe it took me so long to read an Octavia Butler novel.
The universe she constructed is rich and I find myself wanting to know more about its inhabitant and spend more time their world.
I want more of the conflict between Clayarks and Patternmasters.
I want more on the interaction of the mutes and Patternmasters.
These desires aren't critiques but a testament to how great of a job Butler did in world building.
Given that this is #4 in what i am assuming is a series I'm sure I can get answers to all of the questions.Read this book!
Second note: even though I bought it and read the description, I completely missed that this was book 4.
It'll be interesting to find out how this world came to exist.Science Fiction is a way for writers to discuss political and social matters of today withou making he reader feel preached at or morally squeamish.
Given today's political landscape, I find Butler's commentary on slavery and the choices one makes regarding freedom very poignant.
Is it worth physical captivity and servitude on the chance that one can earn their full freedom?
I now wonder what it would have been like if I'd have started with this one?) Really cool to see all the different stories come together.
All our main characters are have come from breeding mutated humans into, almost, another species all together, with homosapiens being the discarded beings and the patternists filling the place of people.
Then you throw in the alien mutations brought on by virus into the much more animalistic Clayarkers (basically intelligent zombies) and it is a world where human beings as we know them, no longer have a real place...
All in all, I enjoyed the Patternmaster/Patternist series quite a lot.
This particular book (like Mind of My Mind in this series, too) left me wanting more depth and breadth of exploration in the world.
Of the four books in the series, I enjoyed Wild Seed the most by far, and Clay's Ark quite a bit as well.
Both Wild Seed and Clay's Ark can stand alone as novels very well (Mind of My Mind and Patternmaster, not so much, I think).There is a bisexual main character in this book who is pretty great.
Patternmaster is the last of the Patternist books chronologically, though the first published, and I think it works well read either way.
It's a short but solid novel, well capable of standing on its own, but coherently linked to the earlier/later installments.I have to say, my favorite character is probably Amber.
His characterization made sense, but the constant impulsiveness forced to give way to reason got old.
Like much of Butler's work (or what I've read of it so far) it's a quick read.
I'll admit, though, that the ending fell a little flat.
It was all a little too neatly abrupt, but still forgivable.
I have now read nearly all of Butler's short stories and novels and feel a kind of despair knowing there is not much of her brilliance left for me to read.Patternmaster was not my favorite in this series and now having read all but Survivor, the connections between each novel make more sense. Someday I would like to go back and reread Mind of My Mind and Wild Seed to further appreciate those connections.
Octavia Butler was ahead of her time. Absolutely brilliant.
Although the general premise is that Doro the strongest telekinetic being on distant earth is about to be usurped by one or more of his eugenically designed children.“People” who have the mental capacity to transmit, interrupt, and manipulate consciousness (absorb memories, feelings, read thoughts, cause pain, kill, maim, and heal) are the landed gentry-“House Masters”.
People with lesser powers and no allegiances are the lords and vassals in this futurist word- The Independents and mostly Healers (self-explanatory).
At any rate the story is about a really mean Housemaster Coransee and his little brother Teray.
The older telepath is on that Machiavelli path to gaining total power.
It's unfortunate, becuase Butler so clearly sets up the possibility for all these considerations, and then utterly fails to capitalize on them.When I started this series, it was with the impression that Butler was a pretentiously intellectual, elitist author.
It's not much, and since the emotions and relations are almost as restrained as in the earlier books, it's not enough even for this story.This last book in the series was written before the others.
If not, I'm not confident an audience would be able or interested to make sense of the world it describes.I was clearly wrong about Octavia Butler - she's not the stuffy writer I thought she was, and Wild Seed was a good book.
My point is, as a stand alone novel it's fantastic and I was happy with it once I'd adjusted to the complete loss of my lovely Patternists......who make a swift return in "Patternmaster".
The other thing making it a strain is the existence of "Clay's Ark".
Let me say it again - "Clay's Ark" is grand.I guess I was also confused by the largely patriarchal world that had established itself among the Patternists, I don't know if Butler was trying to make some comment about such things always reverting back?
Which suddenly makes a lot of sense with "Patternmaster" actually being the first novel published.
Since I read all the other books first, including Survivor, I think my rating of Patternmaster is affected.
There are many people with special mental abilities and powers, the result of a long breeding program over hundreds of years.
Clayarks want to destroy the telepaths simply due to needs of resources.Teray has finished school in the beginning of the book.
However, it falls flat compared to the other books, which is probably why Butler wrote all the prequels in the first place to flesh everything out.I like how Butler plays with the themes of slavery and control.
It's thought-provoking to think about how those with mental abilities can link and share powers.
This is the first book she published?! She was such a gift. Bonus: surprised to find a strong queer character in a book published in 1975!
Amidst this is a young Patternist who must fight his own people in order to escape from living under the rule of their strongest member, who is trying to become the Patternmaster.
As with the other Patternist books, Butler continues the themes of moral and sexual ambiguity, power, love, survival, and the way these play out, now several hundred years into the future.
Butler never gives her characters an easy escape route, so it's easy to admire them and sympathize with the choices they must make.I highly recommend this series, and I also recommend reading the books in chronological order of the story, not the order in which they were published (which would still be interesting).
Butler's yarn flows well as usual and she knows how to push people's buttons (though not subtly enough perhaps) in order to get readers interested.
The book's magic has lots of intriguing features as well, from the many uses of relationships to the inscription of information and experiences into objects.
So this is definitely worth reading.But...A lot of the book is quite crude and formulaic.
And that's protrayed as some kind of achievement.Girls somehow keep falling for the oh-so-gifted main character even though he's an arrogant fool who stumbles through the plot without making more than one significant choice.The villain is gratutously hateful from start to finish and doesn't seem to do anything constructive to earn the respect or loyalty of either his peers or underlings.
Still an amazing whole.Initial review: I'm listening to the audiobooks of this whole series while I'm packing and moving this weekend, and I've chosen to read them in publication order rather than internal chronological order.Octavia Butler is as good as any writer I know regardless of genre.
Maybe Flannery O'Connor or Jeff Vandermeer.Wild Seed, the only of the Patternmaster books I had read previously, is my favorite of Butler's (we'll see if that holds true after this third time through).
If the other two I haven't read are this good, packing, moving and cleaning may be enjoyable for once!
I have read many books in my life.
It has been a long time since any book has held my attention....much less an entire series.
I read that Wild Seed was on several "best of..." lists so I purchased the first book in the Patternist series by Octavia Butler.
The Patternmaster is the 'final' (actually the first published, but better read as the last book) in the series.
One is obsessed with controlling the Pattern, the other refusing to live as a slave to his brother's obsession.There is a common theme in Butler's books - a strong man controlling those around him.
