https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5971165-the-white-queen
I've been trying to conjure up excuses to give Gregory some credit but this novel just wasn't my style.
The first 10 pages were all I, I, I, and then He, He, He. What I'm trying to say is that there was no sentence variation, making the story very annoying to read after about five minutes.
She improves on this towards the middle of the book but not immensely; her writing style is still pretty "feeling-less".I also did not like the plot, now this I cannot blame on Gregory as she can not be held responsible for the irritating nature of the Old Regime.
This worriment over the fate of her children is exactly what makes her queen of England; her concern drives her to seek protection under the banner of York.
I love the way Elizabeth has been written; it is such a way that suggests that her actions could be driven by a mother’s natural instinct to protect her children, and then at the same time suggests that she is merely plotting for her own power lust.
This young York boy appears later in the  The White Princess  as Perkin Warbeck.
Characters are always saying things like, "Henry Tudor will never be king, none of the Tudors will" and "I trust Richard with my life, he's a great brother" and I can just see Philippa Gregory winking from behind the page, singing "I know what's gonna happen, I know what's gonna happen!" SO DO I, PHILIPPA.-Elizabeth Woodville is traditionally vilified, which seems like a good enough reason to write a book from her perspective, but even when she's telling the story she can't hide the fact that she's kind of...evil.
Good storytelling - especially with the connections to the first book and the subsequent ones.
You see the other side of the story which is a sign of a good storyteller.
I just love reading these re-creations, imagining the beauty and the glow of the language, the scenes and the words.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
But she also shows off skills I never knew she had; the darker side of Gregory’s writing is just as inviting as it is graphic.I think it’s this addition to the book and the almost magical realism of the Rivers family and the storms they wield that make this a really spectacular first part in a trilogy (The Cousins War) that will include two other titles: The Red Queen and The White Princess.
After all, Henry VIII, if Elizabeth’s magic is to be believed, has the right to place the blame on his troubles elsewhere--he’s just blamed the wrong woman is all!In any event, I completely recommend this book to fans of historical fiction and anyone interested in reading a riveting story of love, jealousy, and vengeance.
Having seen and enjoyed the British television drama series The White Queen, I was curious to read the Philippa Gregory novel on which it was based.      “There was a magic: and the name of it was love.” Elizabeth Woodville was the spouse of King Edward IV, mother of Elizabeth of York, grandmother of King Henry VIII and great grandmother of Queen Elizabeth l.    “Edward lives as if there is no tomorrow, Richard as if he wants no tomorrow, and George as though someone should give it to him for fr
Having seen and enjoyed the British television drama series The White Queen, I was curious to read the Philippa Gregory novel on which it was based.
“There was a magic: and the name of it was love.” Elizabeth Woodville was the spouse of King Edward IV, mother of Elizabeth of York, grandmother of King Henry VIII and great grandmother of Queen Elizabeth l.
“Edward lives as if there is no tomorrow, Richard as if he wants no tomorrow, and George as though someone should give it to him for free.” There's a sequel to the White Queen series - it's appropriately called The White Princess.
Love.
The White Queen  follows the rise of Elizabeth Woodville, a commoner widow, who captures the eye of the young King Edward IV and rises to be the queen of the penultimate reign of a Plantagenet monarch.
Many a historian has portrayed Edward IV’s queen as the head of a family of grasping bloodsuckers who wormed their way into the highest positions in the kingdom, much like the Boleyns a few generations later.
Inspired by the whispers of witchcraft that surrounded the Woodville family (which was supposedly descended from a water goddess), Gregory portrays Elizabeth Woodville, her mother, and daughter Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth, wife of Henry VII) as practitioners of wizardry.
Here is a thought that has probably never occurred to anyone while reading a Philippa Gregory novel: You know what this book needs?
More politics!Gregory is best known for her fictionalized tales about the lives of the Kings and Queens of England, most famously The Other Boleyn Girl.
The White Queen reads, at times, like a Eurpoean History textbook.
In this book, Gregory decides to make the Queen actually guilty of witchcraft, not just accused of it.
It’s hard not to hope that she gets her head chopped off in the next one so we can start fresh.For some far better Historical Harlequin reads, I recommend the following:The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory (but you’ve read that already.
4,5 SterneHat mir sogar noch besser gefallen als "Die Mutter der Königin", an welches dieses Buch direkt anschließt.
Die abgehandelte Zeitspanne ist wieder recht groß, man erlebt quasi das ganze Leben der Protagonisten mit.
Dabei entsteht ein gutes Tempo in der Geschichte und es wird nie langweilig.
Für mich ist das ganze eh immer spannend, da ich mich in der englischen Geschichte null Komma gar nicht auskenne 🙈😅Trotzdem merkt man, dass Philippa Gregory super gut für ihre Bücher recherchiert und das ganze dann nett verpackt für den Leser.Das einzige Manko an diesem Buch für mich waren ziemlich viele Wiederholungen von gewissen Phrasen und Geschehnissen 🤷🏼‍♀️
The White Queen is the fictional story of the life of Elizabeth Woodville, wife of King Edward IV.
Philippa Gregory does her usual fine job of bringing her characters to life and making it enjoyable to read.
I was introduced to royal historical fiction by Norah Lofts and have also read Alison Weir and Jean Plaidy, among others.
In this book Gregory focuses on the Plantagenet's and The Cousins War period, also known as The Wars of the Roses, which preceded the Tudor Period.
It's interesting reading about these royals, at least for me.
On a side note, the mini-series on cable television did a good job of following the book.
After reading The Other Boleyn Girl - I loved Philippa Gregory, and would pick up virtually anything she'd written.I watched the BBC adaption of The White Queen which I thoroughly enjoyed, so went for the book series.
All four that I've read (The Lady of the Rivers, The White Queen, The Red Queen and The Kingmaker's Daughter) so far have an incredible focus on the powerful women during the Tudor Court and the War of the Roses.
These women fight for their lives, their loves and their children - out of a sense of survival as well as out of ambition and a hunger for power.Even though their stories are this impressive, I often struggled to find the motivation to keep reading.
These battles and fights, these long rides through the country and on the sea really happened and it wouldn't make any sense if they didn't show up in this book.
No matter how much I rooted for the main character to succeed, history taught me better.In a nutshell: a fascinating read about a remarkable woman who managed to become the most powerful woman in the country, even though all the odds were against her.Find more of my books on Instagram
This switching over into third person, when the majority of the book is in first person, is immensely jarring, and reading those scenes it quickly becomes apparent how Gregory is awkwardly trying to find a way out of her fix.I also didn't like the inclusion of genuine magical powers on the part of Jacquetta and Elizabeth Woodville in the novel.
Philippa Gregory ist und bleibt für mich einfach die beste Autorin, wenn es um historische Romane geht! Man markt, wie gut das Buch recherchiert ist und dank ihrer wundervollen Schreib- und Erzählweise zu einem unvergesslichen Roman wird. Hätte ich ihre Bücher bereits in der Schulzeit gelesen, hätte ich wahrscheinlich nur Einser in Geschichte geschrieben! Ganz klare Leseempfehlung!!!Es handelt sich hierbei um die siebenteilige "Rosenkriege" Serie von Philippa Gregory. Die Bücher springen jeweils in der Zeit oder spielen teilweise gleichzeitig aus der Sicht eines anderen Hauses! Nicht verwirren lassen!
Not what I was hoping for.
The book jacket is better than this book.
I finished it, but barely.
The story went on and on and on- drama and drama and drama.
Gregory's other books were interesting and hard to put down.
This story was lacking the same intensity.
The main character's voice was weak and a bit whiny.
The first 100 pages were about how much she loved her husband, the king- how much she wanted him, how great the sex was and then what she gave to her family once she was queen.
Too trivial- no depth or meat to this story.
Really- stick to the book jacket- huge disappointment!!
This is my first book I've read from this author,I've read Elizabeth freemantle books which are really good,who also writes historical books.well what a fantastic read looking forward to the next book.the red Queen in which I watched the programme not so long ago wanted me to read this authors books as it was so good.its was a well written easy to read it's great to get more facts.highly recommend.
Once again it just spans too long a period, meaning that there's not a lot of attachment to what's happening.
Did not like her one bit.Also really wasn't feeling the whole witchcraft angle.
I feel like this would have been better if it dealt with a shorter time period, and we were allowed to grow attachments to characters.
I'm really fascinated by this period of history but this and the previous book have really taken some of the interest away for me.
Not sure when I'll get to the next book in the series but its unlikely to be any time soon.
Gregory’s Woodville falls instantly in love with the King, and she ascends the throne at a dangerous time of civil war.
An incredibly cut throat period in which each claimant to the throne has a much right as the next, and the alliances of the Great Families of England are always shifting.
Gregory doesn’t attempt to pander for sympathy to Elizabeth’s plight and instead gives us as even a portrayal of Elizabeth as the historical records afford.
Gregory fans and first time readers who enjoy the genre will want to puck it up immediately and will count down the days until her next book in the series, The Red Queen.
Whether it be the first chapters where she keeps referring to twenty-two year old battled hardened Edward as a "boy" (counted it at least six times on one page), to the locket with the names written in blood, as well as the ever present and over bearing references to her ancestor Melusine - I got the point the first time.
Outside of the first few chapters at the beginning of their relationship I didn't pick up much chemistry between Edward and Elizabeth - they should have sizzled right off of the pages and instead they fizzled.
2.5 starsLet me start by saying its not the author’s fault that every second person in the book is either called Edward or Richard but it made the listening experience a bit confusing at times.In the past few years I have come around to her Tudor series by listening rather than reading them and they were all without fail very entertaining and educational.But this one did not grip me until the last 1/4 when the story focused on the mystery of the missing princes in the Tower of London.There was a lot that felt repetitive.
Elizabeth gets pregnant, hopefully a son, Edward goes to battle for his crown.
Then Elizabeth gets pregnant again, hopefully a son, and Edwards goes to battle for his crown again…… rinse and repeat.
My first Philippa Gregory novel, and I was swept away by her well-researched details and plot.
She's such a strong character, and watching her quest for power via manipulations and an indomitable will was mesmerizing.
I loved it.
However, I tried reading "The White Princess" and couldn't relate to that main character at all; she seemed much weaker IMO.
But I'll definitely read more of Gregory's work.
She's amazing!Note: There's a sprinkle of magic throughout this story (so subtle, it's almost more magical realism), which I loved, being a sucker for fantasy, but it might not appeal to historical fiction purists.
Elizabeth starts out begging the new King, Edward IV for her deceased husband's land as an inheritance for her two sons.
Edward is from the House of York that took the throne by force through war from King Henry of the House of Lancaster.Throughout this book, King Edward has to constantly fight to keep his throne from the former King Henry and his plotting wife, Margret de Anjou.
The end of the book closes with the return of Prince Richard to Elizabeth.True to British court at this time and Gregory's writing we are caught up in an onslaught of constant plotting and intrigue.
Towards the end of the book when Elizabeth is in sanctuary for the second time, we are *told* that Elizabeth and Margaret Beaufort have become allies while Margaret served as one of Elizabeth's ladies, and she helpfully sends Elizabeth a note giving her clues about the way the political wind is blowing; however not one single scene between the two ladies is written down for us while their relationship is developing, the two share no private moments, no conversation.
There are huge time jumps in the narrative, which seem to me to be a bit of a cop out of giving us a more personal look into the life of Elizabeth during peacetime; we jump from one 'exciting scenario' to another, and even then a lot of the time the scenes fail to come to life.
„Бялата кралица” определено беше една много приятна изненада. С вълнуващ сюжет, който редуваше исторически доказани факти и художествена измислица, Филипа Грегъри разказа историята на една доста интересна жена, превърнала се от обикновена вдовица в кралица. Авторката умело пресъздаваше трудностите, пред които трябваше да се изправи героинята – кралските интриги, предателството, копнежите за власт и опасността в лицето на собствените ти роднини. Романът беше поглъщащ, напрегнат и емоционален.Цялото ревю тук -> http://justonebooklover.blogspot.bg/2...
I've tried my hands on quite a few historical books but ended up liking just one out of them ( Girl With A Pearl Earring ) and after reading this one I think I should just give up this genre.
Those 2 Stars that I've given are ONLY for Gregory's writing which I think was really  fitting , is the word I'm going to use.
Historical books need an archaic kind of ring in their narration and this one had.
I quite liked the writing and I wish Philippa Gregory wrote something other than Historical Fictions so I could read more of her work.
Schau in meinen Storyhighlights auf Instagram.https://www.instagram.com/wiljavanblog/
If you had asked me last month what the War of the Roses was about I would have probably made some crack about the Michael Douglas movie of the same name in order to distract from my ignorance of this particular segment of history.Once I started reading The White Queen I realized that I was familiar with parts of the plot from reading Richard III years ago.
When I'm reading historical fiction I want it to be factual, not mystical.I really liked this book, but I think I would have lost myself within the story more, and given it a higher rating, had it not been for the usage of present tense and the inclusion of mystical forces.
Primeiro livro da série "Guerra dos Primos" A Rainha Branca começa com a história da plebeia Isabel Woodville que com a sua beleza apaixona Eduardo e acabam por se casar em segredo.
Eduardo vai para a guerra e com a sua vitória acaba por se tornar o rei Eduardo IV de Inglaterra, mas o casamento secreto entre ambos vai gerar um conflito enorme entre as duas casas (York e Lencaster) uma vez que lord Warwick tem um grande poder sobre o jovem rei e já tinha outros planos de casamento para Eduardo.
4.5 starsBook One in a new series featuring the War of the Roses era of English historyThis is a wonderful historical tale, a book that pulled me in from the first few pages and never let go. Thrilling, fast moving, this is a deliciously engrossing read!I was even more thrilled to read that this book explored one of the biggest mysteries of history -- (no spoiler) Richard III. History is not my strong point, but this entire subject is fascinating to me.I'll definitely be anxious to continue with future books in this new pre-Tudor series!
The book, as expected, deals a lot with her relationships with her children, especially her two sons Edward V and Richard who were known as the "princes in the tower."Elizabeth's story is one filled with emotion, though I felt it could have been written a lot better.
I thought the depth of her character was sorely lacking, especially when compared to other books the author has written.
All in all, I really liked her take on the story, even if she did take some liberties with history and embellished events a little.One final thought: I did have to brush up on my historical figures while reading this; if you pick this up I recommend doing the same, or keeping track of the number of people named Edward, Richard, or Elizabeth etc.
