https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370493.The_Giving_Tree
Later, another goddamn time, punk-ass bitch come back, lookin' all old an' saggy and wack now, and he like, "Bitch, what you got fo' me now?" "Awww, hell naw," tree says, but then she start gettin' all soft an' shit again an' say, "Why don' you cut down my trunk or some such shit and go 'head and whittle a pimped-out yacht, full-on Hamptons-style?" He, like, "Yeah, I thought so, bitch." And then -- guess the fuck what?
I recently read this book to my little boy.
But it's the first time I've read the book in a decade, and given the fact that my memory is like a cheese grater, I like to think I got a pretty fresh experience.
Even if you haven't read the story, you probably know the gist of it.
A tree loves a young boy and gives away pieces of itself to the boy to make the boy happy.
After reading the book, I honestly don't know which it is.
As long as you keep wetting your pants, you will never drown in the potty."Not a lot of ambiguity here.
If I were to raise my children this way, I feel I would only be teaching them to take selfishly from those who love them, to use people up and always expect more -- and on the flip side, I would be teaching them that if they love someone then they have to give of themselves until it hurts, have to live without boundaries of any kind.
Instead of raising my kids this way, I feel it's important to teach them to respect those who love them and care for them, to not take from others so much that it damages; I feel it's important to teach them that even in love we all must maintain our boundaries, our integrity.
Co-dependent tree needs to set some fucking boundaries.
But if this were truly just some hard and fast hippie dippy morality tale, would its two main characters (living natural tree, growing human boy) and their relationship have weathered such extensive interpretation over the years?Professor Timothy Jackson from Stanford University (found on Wiki):Is this a sad tale?
The more you blame the boy, the more you have to fault human existence.
Should the tree's giving be contingent on the boy's gratitude?
(Another seminal doozy!) Perhaps due to their influence on my early development, I came away from both books with a lot of very heavy, persistent questions concerning humanity's careless attitude towards ye olde Mother Earth.
It is the job of a classic to relate a timeless story, to which countless readers of any age can relate.
Is it because so many readers have known people who have taken and taken with such unrelenting fervor that they then displace this hatred onto a book that merely tells a story so fundamental it can't help but arouse feelings in any human who reads it?Silverstein, in my opinion, reached his peak with this book, so simple, and so pure, and more timeless than any book I can think of (at the moment).
درخت گفت: «بیا پسر، ازتنه ام بالا بیا و با شاخه هایم تاب بخور، سیب بخور و در سایه ام بازی کن و خوشحال باش.»؛ پسرک گفت: «من دیگر بزرگ شده ام، بالا رفتن و بازی کردن کار من نیست.
اما پسرک دیگر تا مدتها بازنگشت …؛ و درخت غمگین بود.
و گفت: «بیا پسر، از تنه ام بالا بیا با شاخه هایم تاب بخور و خوشحال باش».
پسرک گفت: «آن قدر گرفتارم که فرصت بالا رفتن از درخت را ندارم، زن و بچه میخواهم و به خانه احتیاج دارم.
This book review is now available on my blog at https://www.skylarb.com/single-post/2...
Please visit our blog at www.twogalsandabook.com to see this and other reviews! The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein is a must read for children. It's a story that can bring tears to your eyes. Children can learn about the importance of caring, giving, and how we should treat others. This essential and childhood favorite still remains a part of our home library. 5*****
Had I foreseen what was about to transpire I would have omitted THE GIVING TREE from my selection.Allow me to replay said event:The setting: Mommy and Daddy's bed.After a torturous time of getting my kids to brush their teeth, put on their pajamas, and convinced that they should only bring two stuffed animals apiece to bed, I began to read the books.
The tree was very generous, and the man realized that he had only taken and never given back.Noah: (Staring blankly at me as if I had just finished reading him my bank statement.)Me: What didn’t you like about the story?Noah: The boy grows old and kills the tree and is now going to die.Me: (Inwardly: SSSSSHHHHHHHHIIIIIIIIIIITTTTTTTTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!
The Giving Tree will rip your heart out in 621 words.We all know and love Shel Silverstein for his whimsical poems, but The Giving Tree is both one of the saddest and most hopeful stories ever told. Pure and utter genius, this one is.
Horrific relationship between a selfish unappreciative child and an enabling self-sacrificing mother who has no purpose in life other than to give herself away.
I'd rather see more literature that honors and respects the sacrifices that parents make, rather than this book's actual focus: demonstrating the expectations that this black hole of a child has.I feel that sacrifice, without a concept of self, gives less weight to the sacrifice.This could be rewritten with a hungry boy eagerly gnawing on the scraps that his mother is cutting off from her body.
After being fully relaxed, then, yes then, I would eat that tasty fruit and thus making sure that miniature, cute-looking, never-happy piece-of-shit gets nothing.But seriously speaking (this does not mean, I was not serious before), the tree which reduced itself to a stump, repeatedly asked the boy to sit under her shade and play with her.
How can anyone read this book to a child?I told the story to my mother and asked about her thoughts - First of all she recites a verse in Sanskrit and translates to me as:A tree never eats its own fruit and a river never drinks its own water.
“Once there was a tree, and she loved a little boy.”  Shel Silverstein, The Giving Tree  I recently reread Shel Silverstein's The Giving Tree. It was the first time in many years I have read it.  I love this book ; I always have. But, reading it as an adult, over 30, was so different this time around. The warm fuzzies of past reads were missing. Now, it made me feel sad, and empty. This go around, I saw it not as a parable of generosity and love, but instead I saw it as a story of selfishness,
“Once there was a tree, and she loved a little boy.”
It was the first time in many years I have read it.
But, reading it as an adult, over 30, was so different this time around.
The warm fuzzies of past reads were missing.
What can you say about a book that had a profound impact on you in your youth and again, years later but in a totally different way.
The tree is selfless (me as an adult) and the boy becomes selfish (me in my youth) ~~ and let's not talk about the thing's I've (the boy) done for love.
Book Review  I first read The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein when I was twelve-years old, but then I read it again in college as part of a course called "Reading in the Elementary School." My opinion didn't necessarily change between the two reads, but my eyes were opened a little wider. I never realized it was such a controversial book, nor that the author was sometimes considered not ideal for children, despite writing picture books for them.The basic gist of the book revolves around friend
I never realized it was such a controversial book, nor that the author was sometimes considered not ideal for children, despite writing picture books for them.The basic gist of the book revolves around friendship/love and abusing/using someone for what they can offer versus just enjoying the time with them.
Many argue it's a dark tale about a boy who never really learns his lesson, even in the end when goes back one final time to ask for one more thing -- a place to sit before he dies.Yes, that's an over-exaggeration of the story, but depending on how/when you read the book, your perception of it could change.
I can imagine berating the attitude of the boy, of the tree, but I can't imagine not coming away from this book with a deeper understanding of human nature, of reciprocity, of a parent's love for a child and the nature of servanthood.
Maybe it's that I'm a daughter and can see the parallel between parent and child.
I can see myself in the boy, can see the ways that I've taken from God, my parents, the earth, without a word of thanks, even a thought for what they have to give up for me.
My 5-year-old daughter had this read to her in preschool and burst into uncontrollable sobs at the end. "It's not fair! The tree is DEAD and the little boy was so mean to it!"Exactly, honey. This book reeks of the patriarchy. Keep it away from your kids--especially your daughters.
من دلم می خواست می توانستم به تو چیزی بدهماما چیزی برایم باقی نمانده. من فقط یک کنده پیر...و کهنسالم. متاسفمممنون عموشلبی عزیزکه به یادم آوردی «مادر» چه وجود مقدسی استکه عظمت عشقش فراتر از درک ماستپسرک بزرگ شد و مرد شد و بعد پیرمرد، ولی هیچوقت از درخت سپاسگزاری نکردو با خودم فک می کنم که چقدر شبیه اش اویم؟
Shel Silverstein is truly one of the greatest American poets for kids. The Giving Tree is a wonderful story about friendship and ageing. No spoilers, but don't let your kids miss out on this absolutely gorgeous story!
Here's the book I really want to read:
The boy is punished for all but raping the one who cares more for him than anyone in the world, and the tree pays the ultimate price for a lifetime of allowing herself to be a doormat, or, alternately, finally gets her revenge.
Who knows what Silverstein was trying to get across with this alternately touching and troubling parable?
An ex-girlfriend of mine gave this book to me as a present early in the relationship.
I can't give anything as tangibly mind-boggling as "The Giving Tree" an entirely negative review, and as always the art is cute and affecting.
Easily the most vile children's book ever written, for reasons eloquently stated by about a zillion other posters here.
I remember my grandmother, whom I disliked (yeah, some kids don't like their grandparents, it's true) used to push this book on me as terribly DEEP and BEAUTIFUL and something I should really THINK ABOUT.
And you wonder why I didn't like my grandmother?
(My mother thought it was a piece of shit, too.) Anyway, it's a vomitous book, always has been, and I'm glad there are other people who think that it is.
When I was a kid, it was held up as the ne plus ultra of depth and beauty in children's literature.
I have always loved this book.
AS youth we even acted it out as a skit with four people playing the tree.
Last year, I read someone memoir and they hated this book and talked about how unhealthy the premise is.
Giving all you have to someone that leaves you until there is nothing left.
There are no healthy boundaries here.
It bring out many different arguments which is what art is supposed to do.
I have to say, I still love the story, I'm am more conscious around it now.
"I am sorry," sighed the tree. I wish that I could give you something...but I have nothing left. I am just an old stump. I am sorry....""I don't need very much now," said the boy,"Just a quiet place to sit and rest. I am very tired.""Well," said the tree, straightening herself up as much as she could,"Well, an old stump is good for sitting and resting. Come, Boy, sit down. Sit down and rest."And the boy did.And the tree was happy.
Sorry, Mr Silverstein.
This kind of tripe is inexcusable.
I'd hazard a guess that Bernie Madoff read this book, and look how he turned out.
Thanks a bunch, Shelly boy.My real reaction to this piece of morally ambiguous reprehensible mawkishness is best expressed by the kind of interpretative dance that was Molly Shannon's forte (one syllable only, for crying out loud, people - PLEASE) on Saturday Night Live.
But since this isn't a realistic goodreads option, I cede the reviewing platform to animated film genius, Amy Winfrey: The Muffin Tree Damned if I'm giving this book any stars at all.
Someone gave it to my children as a gift, and I'm very close to hiding it or giving it away so that I don't have to read it to them at bedtime anymore.
Or perhaps "If you love someone, just give them everything you have and expect nothing in return, ever."I always want to cry for the lonely stump of a tree at the end.
She was a good tree.
She deserved more than the ungrateful brat who took away all of her apples and branches and trunk.
"يكى بود،يكى نبود.يك درخت بود،كه پسر كوچولويى را دوست داشت."هر دفعه با خودم ميگم "آخه مگه يه داستان 
And it’s not until the children grow up and have children of their own that they can fully understand this level of love.JON: The Giving Tree is the quintessential tale of a dysfunctional relationship -- and one that’s couched, not un-purposefully, in gender stereotypes.
The story ends with a wizened old man returning to the once-beautiful tree he has desecrated through his boundless avarice.
Deep down in my heart I know that I’d give everything to Jon. Even if it meant giving up my favorite clothes, my savings, my ability to dance and sing.
Because in the end, his happiness is the root of mine.JON REPLIES: Now I’m ashamed of what I wrote before.
At the time, the boy was already an old man and so, upon the invitation of the tree, he restfully sat down and the tree was again happy.I liked the story because, on the surface, it is about environmental protection.
Did either the tree or the old man (used to be the boy) regret about what happened in the end?
The tree helped by giving her fruit, her leaves and branches, her trunk even if she was reduced to a stump in the end.
As a child I wondered how the tree could give so much.
Now that I am older, I know that parents/caregivers do give that much to their children/charges (if metaphorically).
Certainly they do not literally give house and home, but the sacrifices we make for the ones we love have no quantifiable limit.
This book isn't supposed to teach children the value of sharing so much as it shows that sometimes love and sacrifice go hand in hand.
I think it demonstrated beautifully the differences in age and understanding inherent in parent/child relationships.
But I think a book able to spark such heated emotion is definitely a book worth reading.
