https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17157.Marie_Antoinette
Perhaps this passage in the Epilogue best sums up the book:-“A scapegoat was in fact what Marie Antoinette became.
Among other things, she would be blamed for the whole French Revolution, by those who optimistically looked to one “guilty” individual as a way of explaining the complex horrors of the past.”I am inclined to think that Marie Antoinette probably had a lethal fault in her stars that put her in the wrong place at the wrong time.
It would not be surprising, under these circumstances, to see the “Austrian woman” (as Marie Antoinette came to be called) becoming the receptacle of the French people’s full wrath, through the vicious manipulation of public opinion by power-hungry demagogues.
Her marriage to King Louis XIV was a move to forge alliances among the warring countries included in the Seven Years War. Included in these countries were Austria, where Marie Antoinette was an Archduchess and France, where Louis-Auguste (who became King Louis XIV) was a Dauphin.
Marie Antoinette did not dream of becoming a French queen.
Thus leaving Hamburg for Paris to live in Versailles was Marie Antoinette way of ending her jealousy of being the less-favoured daughter of the empress.Unfortunately, King Louis XIV did not love her and it took time for their marriage to be consummated.
Most people today have little sympathy for this queen, but I came away from this book with a much altered impression of her character and personality.
She was truly in an impossible position...a queen in a country where the royalty was expected to live in a certain fashion, where, in fact, the people demanded it, and yet where the resentment for that lifestyle would eventually be her demise.
It's as though we want them to be "bigger than life" and put them in that place, yet resent it at the same time.
Not only does Antonia Frasier dispell the rumor that Marie Antoinette ever uttered “let them eat cake” when told that the French were starved for bread, she gives a fuller picture of the queen that shows her more than just an extravagant self-involved royal out-of-touch with reality.
Because Frasier seems to be so behind the royal cause doomed to history, it’s hard to feel like an impartial observer and I at times ended up arguing with the book for its characterization of the King and Queen’s actions, which comes off as a defense.
Marie is bae.
Fraser paints a very sympathetic portrait of Marie Antoinette, who at some point in French history was the most hated woman in the country and was accused of being sexually deviant (to the point of incest), an Austrian spy, an enemy of French people, of bankrupting the country...
Unfortunately, due to the lack of clear understanding of politics, she is unable to make the right decisions, and her entire family eventually meets an awful demise."Marie Antoinette" is an interesting (and sad) story of a woman whose only aspirations are her family and peaceful life.
I'm really surprised that it has so many high ratings, so take my review with a grain of salt, but I just found this book to be a complete chore to wade through.It's really frustrating to see Fraser take such a fascinating historical figure and rob her of all interest with some of the dullest writing and bald assertions I've ever seen in a biography.
This was a good for a beach-ready kind of history.
Fraser's good in terms of readability, but she bends over backwards to explain how Antoinette was misunderstood without really coming to terms with the complexity of her public face.
I REALLY would have liked some more editing, not just in terms of overall repetitiousness, but in terms of readability.
I prefer histories that try to stir up an argument or some kind of engagement with the reader.
I felt more like I was being handed a bill of goods.
She is what led me to study the French Revolution whe I did my minor in History.
While in Paris, I wanted to visit everything related to her, and when anything on the History Channel comes on about the French Rev., I must watch it.
Forced to learn the French language and the French ways.
Taught that decadance was her right and then punished for living up to that expectation.
Forced to see friends and loved ones beheaded.
I'm sure her mother, the Empress of Austria, had no idea what kind of life she was sending her daughter to live.
I've read some great historical fiction on Marie Antoinette (Juliet Grey's trilogy starting with Becoming Marie Antoinette comes to mind) but this was my first nonfiction read on this doomed queen.
I really like it when history books do this because when an author talks about a certain artifact or painting, it's helpful to have the picture immediately available for reference.The text itself was quite good.
I regarded Marie Antoinette as a sympathetic historical figure before I ever read this book, but this biography does an especially good job of outlining the ultimate tragedy of Marie Antoinette--that she was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
And it only took me 11 years to finish it...
This book took me a while to get through because of Mrs. Fraser's dense style of writing but also because I tried to savor each moment of this biography.
Somehow Antonia Fraser writes in a no nonsense way yet allows the reader to hear the music, and the swish of Marie Antoinette's skirts as she walked through Versailles.
I enjoyed how Antonia Fraser analyzed both sides of the argument and presented the Queen's life in an impartial way.
This book was one of Sofia Coppola's primary sources for her movie "Marie Antoinette" and anyone who's seen the movie will enjoy finding all the quotes used in the movie that the historical figures actually said.
It's a good biography and, unlike Coppola's movie, actually tells you what happened to Marie-Antoinette and her family after the mob arrested them and brought them to Paris.
A nice idiot, but an idiot.), but I didn't mind a little fawning since Fraser's book has a lot of good details about life at Versailles and Marie-Antoinette herself.
Fascinating, well-written, and tragic.
2.5 stars - It was alright, an average book. Certainly not textbook dry, but it is still a 600+ page biography, so not exactly a page turner either. I did however want to high-five the author when she sarcastically referred to convents as the place to put Queens and noble wives that were no longer convenient for their husband/father/brother. -------------------------------------------First Sentence: On 2 November 1755 the Queen-Empress was in labour all day with her fifteenth child.
Conoscevo sommariamente la vita e la tragica fine di Maria Antonietta ma, averne letto dettagliatamente ogni fase della sua vita fino al momento della sua violenta morte, è stato a dir poco commovente.Una biografia accuratissima questa della Fraser che ci fa conoscere una bambina trascurata alla corte d'Austria, poi usata come pedina e merce di scambio per i disegni politici di due nazioni, quindi sposa bambina che dovette attendere più di sette anni per consumare il matrimonio con Luigi XVI, un giovane insicuro,taciturno, timido, senza acume politico, ma studioso ed intelligente cresciuto sotto l'ala e le pressioni psicologiche di un nonno con una forte personalità.Figura storica travisata, calunniata, vilipesa, demonizzata persino dal suo stesso figlioletto poco prima della morte.
I certainly learned a lot about Marie Antoinette and the French Court and Revolution, and I liked that it was easy to read but not sensationalized.
I was disappointed, though, that Antonia Fraser, rather than simply writing about Marie Antoinette's life, projected across her views of Marie Antoinette through her writing, forcing me (if I wasn't careful!) of viewing Marie Antoinette the same way she did.
I suppose it's difficult to write an unbiased biography, and maybe she wasn't even trying to, but I would prefer a biography that simply tells me the story and lets me decide for myself.
With a nice and very accessible writing style, we go through 'The Journey' more like through a novel than an historical biography; making for a quick and pleasing read.
And, sure enough, Antonia Fraser doesn't hesitate to assail reader's sensitivity with a wealth of pathos and cheesy emotions spilling all over, until overflowing to the extreme in the last chapters!Here's in fact the problem: refusing to take some distance with her subject by having a clear (and well asserted!) bias surely makes Marie-Antoinette more accessible and human, but such dismissal of the cold analysis expected from an historian also carries the risk of losing some objectivity.
4.5Having read -- technically listened -- to this, I can see why this is typically seen as the Bible to Marie Antoinette, much like how Eric Ives' The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn is the Bible for Anne Boleyn.
Fraser casts Marie in a very good light, making her seem smart and powerful and very much like the Queen of France, dispelling rumors that have stuck with her throughout the years, such as "Let them eat cake!" or that she had many lovers.See, when I was a kid, I read diaries for the royals.
I haven't read anything else about Marie Antoinette, but I felt that Fraser did a good job of telling "Marie Antoinette's dramatic story without anticipating its terrible ending," as she writes in the author's note.
She provides a cultural context where necessary, and points out inconsistencies in the contemporary, and more modern, accounts of the events of Marie Antoinette's life.
Having seen the Kirsten Dunst film earlier in the fall, it was quite interesting to read a fuller account of Marie Antoinette's life than we see in the film.
They ruled France in the late 18th century, but that came to an end via the French Revolution.
They had to run for their lives, which in the end, they both lost.
Because I don't know as many people, at times there were a lot of people to try to keep straight, but I think Fraser did a pretty good job of at least keeping clear the main “players”.
And I think it's the first I've read by Fraser.
I'm sure I'll pick up more and I'll likely read more about Marie Antoinette, as well.
It's no surprise that this book took me forever to get through, it is a really dense, long history book.
I didn't know much about Marie Antoinette prior to reading this, but I was very interested in her life, and now I feel like I know practically everything about her!
The author definitely has a more sympathetic view of the doomed queen, which is not a bad thing in this case.
It really seems like bad luck was really Marie Antoinette's problem!
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who is interested in Marie Antoinette, and up for a very thorough, cohesive, and ginormous historical biography!

And a good biography to me is one where the author presents all the facts and refrains from injecting their own opinion, which I imagine would be difficult to do.
I felt that too often Antonia Fraser injected her own opinions instead of just stating the facts.
With that being said I have never read a biography on Marie Antoinette and enjoyed learning more about her life.
Although the author did a good job in keeping the book interesting and not too dry, at times it was difficult for me to keep people straight because of their many different names/titles.
An absolute intriguing historical figure. I think all the injustice she faced makes me just love her more!
Marie Antoinette, Queen of France, and Georgiana Cavendish nee Spencer, Duchess of Devonshire were two of the most famous women of the 18th century.
Even though overtime the couples grew closer (Marie Antoinette refused to leave her husband during the French Revolution and William was said to be completely devastated when Georgiana died), both women were trapped in a loveless marriage.
-Affectionate mothers: both women were under great pressure to beget an heir but years would pass before they finally gave birth to their first children (Georgiana had trouble conceiving while Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI didn't consummate their marriage for years).
I saw the movie based on this book in the theater when it came out, and I didn't like it that much.
And she provides an important reading of Marie Antoinette's fate--her status as a foreigner and a woman made her the scapegoat for the entire Revolution.
Fraser presents a flawed yet sympathetic figure for us to see, and then points how various social factors and real, actual people came together to torture her and finally kill her.It's an interesting book to be reading in this election season, that's for sure.
In these pages Marie Antoinette comes across as a woman who would perhaps have been far happier without a crown, replacing a dead elder sister in the intended marriage to the Dauphin, a personality utterly unsuited to the life of political influence and intrigue intended for her, a woman who disliked the overwhelming pomp and ceremony of the French Court, who was far happier in simpler surroundings, with simpler clothes and ceremonies, a woman utterly devoted to her children.Antonia Fraser's books are always a delight, and this one is no exception.
I think Fraser's account is a fair one and perhaps she is closer to understanding the queen than past biographers.
I appreciate that this book is a biography of Antoinette rather than a history of the revolution but without a decent exploration of the very real grievances (though certainly nothing excuses the ensuing bloodbath) the people had against their rulers and the ruling class as a whole, I don't think a truly nuanced portrait of Marie Antoinette is possible.Even so, I think I'd have rated this more highly if it weren't for the pacing.
Students of history are always taught that they should refer to multiple sources to form an opinion about a historic event or personality - and that's exactly what Antonia Fraser did.With painstaking detail, the author has put together jigsaw pieces from multiple sources to tell the story of the unfortunate queen of France, Marie Antoinette.
While the first half of the book is engaging and very riveting, (chronicling her Austrian birth, her marriage at 14, her life at Versailles court and the births of her children all the way to the storming of the Bastille, which was the beginning of the end of the monarchy) the pace slows drastically in the second half, which painfully details the humiliating and cruel end to which she finally came.
