https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43401.Hons_and_Rebels
Before reading this book it is helpful to already be acquainted with the basics about the family.
For that I recommend The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family by Mary S.
We are summarily told of Esmond’s tragic death which will soon follow in 1941.What I was given I thoroughly enjoyed, but I really did want more, more about the years to come and more about why the couple chose to go to America and not Russia!
After this I went on to read a novel by Jessica’s authorial sister, Nancy Mitford.
I knew that although fictional it was based on family events.
Her wildly disparate sisters, novelist Nancy as the eldest and the most remote from Jessica; Diana, the great beauty and future Fascist; and Unity, the tragic figure of the family, a giant Valkyrie (ironically enough, this is also her middle name!) with an outsized personality to match, whose horrible fate was to try unsuccessfully to kill herself when her beloved Nazi Germany made war on her homeland.
Jesus, racism, and conservative politics made me nauseated, as they did my eldest sister.So Jessica Mitford, Girl Rebel, looks for a way out: Her cousin Esmond, a professional rebel with a published book and a troublemaking newspaper founded and run before he was 16, fit the bill.
Like J.K. Rowling, I worship Jessica "Decca" Mitford.
If I had a daughter, I'd name her after Jessica, who was born into an aristocratic family, ran away with her hunky Communist cousin to fight in the Spanish Civil War, emigrated to the United States without a penny, and became a muckraking journalist with no formal schooling.
My mouth was agape the entire time I read HONS AND REBELS...it seemed incredible that Mitford's story wasn't fiction.
Witty and smart -- but maybe a little lacking in heart.It's hard not to like Jessica Mitford.
Jessica had a very large family, and her sisters were all just as notorious and exciting as she was in different ways.
The real answer begins at home -- but Jessica, while ridiculing her parents' snobbery, is strangely silent about the underlying coldness and lack of love in her childhood home.
At times you get the impression that Jessica herself really doesn't get that there's anything "strange" about a girl falling in love with Adolph Hitler, or talking openly about suicide as her only alternative if things go bad.
I read this quite hungrily because I needed a Mitford fix and I couldn't get the Sisters bio on kindle. As others have noted there's something a bit flat here and I was surprisingly a bit disappointed. Unity comes across as grotesque but it's never really explored. And the dashing Esmond little better than a smarmy conman in the US. There's a lot of eccentricity, tragedy and adventure but I didn't FEEL it.
Este libro me ha enganchado de principio a fin, y he disfrutado mucho con su lectura.
La autora nos cuenta su niñez y adolescencia dentro de una familia noble inglesa, caracterizada por la excentricidad de todos sus miembros.
Y de cómo aún dentro de ese mundo tan cerrado, ella llega a desarrollar su propia personalidad, y a tener sus ideas, totalmente opuestas a las de sus padres y hermanos.
Hasta el punto de tener la valentía de huir de ese mundo para ir a la guerra civil española, y más tarde a Estados Unidos.
Me ha parecido muy entretenida, y a ratos, divertida
This is a really well written, funny memoir from one of those infamous sisters.
If anyone asked me who my favourite Mitford was it would be Nancy every time, the most fascinating was Diana, but the one I would have most likely liked in real life - would have been Jessica.
The stories are a little different however, because of course Jessica was quite a bit younger than Nancy, Pam, Tom and Diana, and so the stories involving her, Unity and Debo are not quite the ones we know and which were told so well by Nancy.
The madcap and eccentric life that followed from Rotherhithe to the United States with Esmond equals that of her earlier life, but with herself being the master of her fate.I rarely read biographies.
well she married the Duke of Devonshire and lives at Chatsworth , writes books about chickens and is the last remaining Mitford daughter.
From her earliest days with family to her later life withEsmond, Jessica captures the love she had for these people while at the same time the exasperation of her situation .
But at least in this book, we can see the love still remains.
The picture of her wacky childhood is charmingly told albeit somewhat terrifying to contemplate - I could have used more about each Mitford sister and more insight into how this teeming brood of aristos wound up careening off in wildly different directions.
When World War II breaks out in earnest, Esmond drives off to join the Royal Canadian Air Force, and the book abruptly ends.
We're told in an author footnote(!) that he was killed in action at age 23.
They ruin a friend's car and leave it parked on a sidestreet, sighing that "journalists never look after their things." Her husband should know, since he can't even work the expensive camera he charged to his father in law's account at the Army and Navy stores (without the man's knowledge or permission, of course) even before they are married!The Romilly family's solution to all problems seems to be running away.
I love reading about the Mitfords.
I've never paid much attention to Jessica 'Decca' Mitford, and this book doesn't really make me want to.
The second half, detailing after she met Esmond, who didn't come across well at all, mainly being a semi con-man or a man trying to achieve 'the American Dream' and failing quite miserably, was incredibly boring.
I admire Decca's tenacity and determination in this half, but it jumped from "we met up with blah blah and talked and played cards all night" to "we had no money and could barely afford a glass of water in a cafe".
Jessica Mitford's dashing and dramatic life story is almost too good to be true from a biography standpoint--and she's so utterly appealing that I think I have a bit of crush on her.
Aristocratic and hilariously eccentric upbringing, one of the famous/infamous Mitford sisters (their number including a noted writer in Nancy, not one but TWO Nazis, and a communist--that's Jessica), elopement with her dreamy second cousin and their travels to go fight in the Spanish Civil War, emmigrating to America on next to no money, romantic slumming around the USA...you really could not make a lot of this stuff up.
I can't believe how moved I was by this book.
I needed several hours to savour Hons and Rebels.
The characters who wander in and out of Hons and Rebels are a marvel, think Evelyn Waugh, Winston Churchill, WH Auden.
Even Adolf Hitler had something to say about Jessica Mitford!
The book would have been enjoyable for that alone.But for me, Hons and Rebels went far beyond a memoir.
It spoke of an England divided, half generous towards the refugees who fled from Hitler, half disparaging.
This book reads like a love letter to Esmond Romilly...seen through rose tinted glasses of the past and of a first love.
I tried reading this book once before, but struggled to get past the sheer selfishness of both Decca and Esmond.
When I first read this book I disliked both intensely, despising Esmond for driving a wedge between Decca and her family, and Decca for being so complacent.
But I love all things Mitford and did indeed enjoy her wit and recollections and can't wait to read other books that the "Queen of the Muckrakers wrote.
Regrettably, Jessica Mitford doesn't seem to be much-remembered nowadays.
I read The American Way of Death at the urging of the old man in high school (and adored it) -- Mitford was quite au courant then, and was one of those great mid-century writers who sought to revolutionize reportage...
By turns hilarious and poignant, Jessica Mitford's account of her formative years is a classic. As a member of one of the century's most extraordinary families she has many a tale to tell. Strikingly observant and extremely well written, "Hons and Rebels" manages to convey the flavour of the English upper classes in such a way as to make them likeable. No mean feat.
)Jessica's memoir is at its best when she talks about her early family life and tells the stories of her sisters.
There wasn't a ton of insight into the family that I didn't get from reading a giant tome of letters between the sisters several years ago, but it was nice to hear more about Jessica's life (since she and her sisters were frequently not on speaking terms.) Glad to have read this one.
En Nobles y rebeldes, la propia Jessica Mitford nos cuenta a modo de memorias sus entrañables años de niñez y adolescencia en el seno de tan excéntrica familia.
Sin duda, lo mejor de esta maravillosa obra (si bien a partir de la segunda mitad pierde un poco de su lustre inicial) es dejarse hipnotizar por la cadenciosa voz de Jessica Mitford, el arrebatador desparpajo con el que ridiculizaba todo tipo de convenciones y normas de protocolo, y disfrutar con la gran cantidad de experiencias y anécdotas únicas que experimentó en sus primeros años de vida.
I have to say I'm rapidly falling prey to Mitford mania, to the point where I've spent the last twenty minutes listing call numbers to check next time I'm at the library (i.e. in a half hour or so).
Decca's prose is funny and wry, yet straightforward, making this autobiography approachable and quick.
The mix of political/historical content with family relationships and personal development is definitely compelling.
I hesitate to say that it "makes 30s Britain/social history/the run-up to WWII feel real," etc., since those have always seemed overwhelmingly real and important to me.
Still, seeing the details about this particular very active family gives the situation new context, adding a level of nuance that sharpens my interest.
My favorite part about this book was the author's description of her childhood. Her family was delightfully quirky and snobby. I also enjoyed the section about Mitford and her husband selling stockings. However, I did not enjoy most of the parts that involved her relationship with her husband. I have a feeling I would not have liked her husband much. He seemed to have a dilettantish interest in fascism and social justice, and really struck me as being sort of naive and clueless.
Didn't enjoy as much as I'd hoped -- apparently I'm not the biggest Decca fan. So many of her exploits with Esmond made me squirm, and the endless parade of "big names" got old. Perhaps my opinion has been tainted by some previous Mitford reading. The best parts were her reflections on the politics of the time, and her discussion of her sisters, of course. On to Debo's memoir!
Hons and Rebles is pure gold for anyone fascinated by mid-20th century anti-fascism or wildly eccentric English aristocrats. If for some demented reason those subjects don't appeal to you, you can still enjoy the book for Mitford's fine prose stylings and first class wit.
Las personas a las que hace referencia existieron, los hechos, aunque siempre vistos desde el punto de vista de la autora, ocurrieron así y, para bien y para mal, tanto las cosas divertidas como las tristes no son una mera historia salida de la cabeza de Jessica Mitford.
Sinceramente, una historia muy interesante, cercana y humana, a ratos divertida y a otros no tanto, pero como la vida en sí misma, ¿no?
The Mitfords are fascinating. The nicknames, the upbringing, the places they all ended up (a duchess! A commie! A fascist! A lesbian! A well-known writer! And Diana.), the people they knew...the people they married...Anyway, hearing it from the horse's mouth is the way to go. I'm going to have to read some of Nancy's novels next.
The best kind of memoir - one whose author can write with real flair and humour, and whose life was truly pretty amazing. I did feel a sense of dislocation in the second half, where Mitford seemed to relegate her role to that as a passenger riding along in the adventures of her husband, Esmond Romilly. Although he was an interesting character too, I enjoyed this section less than her treatment of her childhood and fascinating family. But this is really a wonderful piece of writing.
Though she was born into a wonderfully eccentric upper class English family, Jessica Mitford was set on escaping--she started a "running away" savings account at Drummond's Bank in London when she was twelve.
There is a fascinating inner reflection in the last few pages where Jessica admits that though she and her young husband, Esmond Romily, believed they were entirely "self-made", free agents who had totally escaped any taint of their English aristocratic upbringing, their impatience, carefree intransigence, and supreme self-confidence could be easily traced to their backgrounds.Jessica Mitford ends this mainly happy book before her husband dies while fighting in World War Two. The book is also called Hons and Rebels.
Maybe it is because I just finished reading The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate but I did not enjoy Jessica's more realistic take on things in her autobiography Hons and Rebels.
It was interesting to hear from Jessica's point of view as one of the younger Mitford girls and she did have a different take on things because of her placement in the family.
While I do greatly admire Jessica and I probably like her best out of the six of those mad bad Mitfords, her writing in Hons and Rebels lacks a sort of insight that makes the circumstances of her life interesting.
Jessica Mitford's sarcastic and witty tone is directed at her own family in her memoir, Hons and Rebels, of her life growing up in aristocratic English family during the 1920's and 30's.
Her family goes through numerous uproars, including when Jessica's older sister Nancy starts publishing her novels including Wigs on the Green, a thinly veiled parody of the Mitford family.
The memoir ends just as World War II is beginning, leaving the reader to find out more about Jessica's postwar career as a muckraking journalist.
The first half, about Decca's childhood, is light-hearted (I just about died when I read her description of giving her father daily palsy practice).
When I read an autobiography I expect to be sucked into someone's life and not spared any emotional pain, but Decca seems determined to hold the reader at arm's length and not let them into anything too personal.
Esmond's death is reported as a footnote.Perhaps the most emotional theme in the book is Decca and Unity's growing emnity over the different political parties they support.
Jessica was a lifelong communist while her favourite sister, Unity, was famously a friend and supporter of the Nazis.
The first half covers the Mitfords' childhoods in country houses and London mansions and occasional cruise holidays.
The second half, where Jessica and her husband (also her cousin) Esmond Romilly, move to the USA, I found much less interesting.
The first half is an insight into a bye gone world where it was possible for Jessica and Esmond to be chased by bailiffs when they lived in a house in London because they did not realise that you had to pay for using gas and electricity.
