https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1382524.George_Bernard_Shaw
ENGLISH: A typical biography by Chesterton (which means an atypical biography) about his personal friend and philosophical opponent Georges Bernard Shaw, whom he studies as a critic and a dramatist.
Unfortunately this book was written in 1909, when Shaw still had not written two of his most important plays: Pygmalion and The Apple Cart.ESPAÑOL: Una biografía típica de Chesterton (es decir, una biografía atípica) sobre Georges Bernard Shaw, su amigo personal y oponente filosófico, cuya obra crítica y dramática estudia con detalle.
Lo malo es que este libro fue escrito en 1909, cuando Shaw aún no había escrito dos de sus obras más importantes: Pygmalion y The Apple Cart.
I think that it is very likely that Chesterton has captured George Bernard Shaw in this biography. I think Chesterton makes a ton of excellent points. It's just that so many of his references are so specific to their particular time, that it is hard for the modern reader to understand or really appreciate the argument being made.
Not for one moment does Chesterton take a stab at giving an "unbiased" perspective of the man...make no mistake, this book is just as much about Chesterton's worldview as it is about Shaw's.
My second quibble is that Chesterton, on very rare occasion, chooses to employ the "n-word." Ironically, the one time he uses it in this book is when he is criticizing the awful treatment of Africans.
Just wanted to point that out.It takes this book a little while to get rolling, but, once it does, each sentence begins to feel like a revelation.
Biographical detail and literary criticism are relevant to Chesterton only insofar as they support his views as to how George Bernard Shaw fits into the world (the world, that is, as Chesterton sees and interprets it).
And this, of course, is what makes the book such a pleasure.
It's Chesterton holding forth on a variety of topics, and occasionally bringing Shaw into the conversation because that's who he's supposed to be writing about.If you want factual detail about Shaw and his plays there are, undoubtedly, plenty of better sources.If, however, you're interested in how GKC might apply his wit and towering intellect to, among other things, discussions of Puritans, Socialists and the interior layout of English pubs, then take this one along to NASCAR or the back yard with a cooler and a lawn chair and enjoy the ride.
But if you look a little closer, you begin to see that GKC is painting a larger picture.
Once you begin to see his method, you soon fall in love with his formula.It is much like GKC's Father Brown formula for solving mysteries vs.
Sherlock Holmes's method (which GKC exposes in one of his other books).
Father brown seeks to know & understand a man's nature and philosophy, and with that information in mind and the facts of the case, he deduces what and why things happened in the case.
Although I have immensely enjoyed Sherlock Holmes, I do prefer Father Brown's methods.
What would happen to a child brought up on Shaw’s principle I cannot conceive; I should think he would commit suicide in his bath.Paradoxes are the essence of life: But Shaw effected a further development, if possible more fantastic.
What would happen to a child brought up on Shaw’s principle I cannot conceive; I should think he would commit suicide in his bath.Shaw's distrust of tradition: If Shaw had found in early life that he was contradicted by Bradshaw’s Railway Guide or even by the Encyclopaedia Britannica, he would have felt at least that he might be wrong.
If the reader is looking for or expecting a biographical work outlining the life of a distinguished playwright, don’t come anywhere near this book.
The fact that Shaw was Irish is swept away as immaterial.
That the writer was a protestant or a social refugee is only of interest as it influenced his work.
Religious, social, economical and political values and leanings are only weighed against their part in his work.
Some may consider it dried to the point of disintegration but for all the Shaw admirers it serves as a mirror of the man behind the plays.
They were friends who vehemently disagreed publicly and in private. But this small volume is in many ways a tribute to GBS that his followers could not improve upon. It would be difficult to imagine two more different souls with philosophies and theologies heartfelt and antagonistic, but somehow they saw through the differences and recognized the common humanity. It is a brilliant piece of work.
G.K. Chesterton, a master of circumlocution and verbosity. Either his pretentiousness causes esoteric writing, or his esoteric writing makes him seem pretentious. Whatever the causal relationship, he's got his head up his ass. This is without a doubt the worst book I've ever read.
But I would recommend trying to find this and other classics in traditional print editions because Chesterton is always a genius and here he is writing a biography of his friend and fellow genius Shaw.
In the section on Shaw as dramatist Chesterton references many Shaw plays, none of which I had read.
As a philosopher, Chesterton calls out three false perceptions of Shaw: he wrote "problem plays", he was paradoxical, and he was a Socialist.
And Chesterton attacks these perceptions through the more famous Shaw plays such as Man and Superman and Major Barbara, which more readers are likely to have read or at least have some familiarity to.
Through this work, the reader comes to an intimate knowledge of George Bernard Shaw, a playwright and novelist who was once an incredibly popular writer around the turn of the 20th Century, although he is relatively unknown today.The only thing that I didn't like about this book were the last two chapters, which droned on and seemed unfocused.
In those chapters Chesterton covered the plays of Shaw, and he digressed incredibly.
But I would still highly recommend this book to fans of both Chesterton and George Bernard Shaw.
What an intelligent way to chronicle the life of George Bernard Shaw by a master of paradoxes, G K Chesterton!
Both of them are masters and Chesterton quite beautifully acknowledges the masterful prowess of GBS as a playwright, commentator and even critic (or is it cynic?).
It is interesting to know that later in life, according to GKC, Shaw became more of a refined puritan willing to allow the crude aspects of his puritanical beliefs to fizzle away.This to me is a rare and excellent biography that is highly entertaining and instructive.
Really enjoyed this book. Made me want to read GBS.
Good.
