https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891922.A_Stillness_at_Appomattox
Catton, writing in the early 1950s about black troops at the Crater, is less sociologically comprehensive but just as affecting as Slotkin, a dedicated scholar of race relations, writing in 2009.
As a storyteller, Catton makes particularly his own the weariness of the men.
They hiked rough country blindly at night, during the day launched and repelled savage assaults, all for an entire Somme-like month—May to early June 1864—at the end of which everyone who hadn’t been shot was mad or nearly so with shell-shocked fatigue.
This was not just battle strategy as I had feared that it would be. It was very readable and felt like the author had actually interviewed the troops. It explored the personalities behind the successes and failures. The battle accounts were quite vivid. I intend to read more of his books.
I've been to Civil War cemeteries where thousands of headstones radiate in all directions, endlessly, but even that does not make me feel the accumulated weight of death and struggle and pain like this book does.Bruce Catton felt the Civil War down to his very marrow.
A bittersweet love letter from someone who sees the terrible beauty in unimaginable pain and in stubbornly clutched hope.Some might say this is a "history written by the victors" text, and certainly the book's slant is Northern.
Besides, I read Catton's The Civil War reduction overview primer of the war in advance so I knew my place in the order of things.
Although this position involved huge organizational responsibilities, the commanding general would not spend the rest of the war behind a desk in Washington, D.C. Grant's previous brilliant field leadership in the western army theater would be needed to directly manage the army on the ground.
The federal army's existing leaders, including Meade, were forced to re-think their approach to fighting a war.
Lee finally stopped Grant's advance at Petersburg, just outside Richmond, and the war settled into armies fighting from entrenched, fixed positions.
I re-read this a few years back, and it's simply one of the best history books I've ever read. Grant's brutal sledgehammer campaign, Lee's ferocious response, it's all here, but written in a way that comes across, at times, like some sort of dark war poetry. I think I saw on Goodreads where someone said that Catton was a historian with great heart. I couldn't agree more. And as a Virginian, I love the way Catton captures a familiar landscape, since I actually live only a few miles from the Chancellorsville and Spotsylvania battlefields.
The last few months of the Civil War were really brought to life for me by this book (sorry for the cliche phrase).
I've always found the Civil War a fascinating subject, and knew a moderate amount about it before reading this book, but the heights of bravery and cowardice attained by regular troops, the ineptness or heroic nature displayed by their commanders, and the terror of being under fire, were all thrown into vivid relief by A Stillness at Appomattox.I'd recommend this book to anyone, whether particularly interested in the Civil War or not.
This is the third book of the famous Bruce Canton trilogy about the Civil War. Published about 65 years ago it is much heralded and maybe the most famous telling of the story of the Civil War. And I did find it mostly compelling reading although I am far from a fan of Civil War history.
I have just recently read a biography of Robert E Lee so I had a little bit of that point of view in my head.I always thought trench warfare began in World War I.

What can I say about Bruce Catton and this book?
I became a life-long lover of all things history because of Bruce Catton.
I read these in my early twenties and I can still recall the sweet pleasure I got from realizing that history was actually FASCINATING when written by someone who seemed to sense the past as present.
If you would like to know more about the Civil War and are a beginner - I suggest you start with Catton.
If you need to remember why it is you became fascinated with the Civil War years ago, I suggest you re-read Catton.
Here, the War has grown old and insane.
Grant had joined General Meade and the Potomac Army.
All the hopes and fears of the Union now rested on him.
He was considered another Napoleon who was going to win the war.
But, the war had grown and their was very minimal chances of peace.
The war had to be won, and it had to be won soon.
That feeling had to reign supreme in all who wanted victory.
From the Biblical Daniel, men believed that they were going to "stand up against the King of the South" who would "fall" eventually.
The final book in Bruce Catton’s excellent,” The Army of The Potomac “ trilogy.
The story moves on with Grant taking command of all the armies and pressing down through the Wilderness a further battle at Chancellorsville, bloody fighting at Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor and into the trench systems around Petersburg.
Sherman takes Atlanta, Richmond falls and Grant has Meade’s troops surrounding Lee and the final surrender.This is a book written for the general reader as well as the scholar and keeps you enthralled to the end.
The book shows what mess politicians make and how inept command prolongs war with useless waste of life.
If there is a better writer on the Civil War then Bruce Catton, I have not found him. If he has written a better book than this one, I have not read it. This book covers the last 14 months of the war with the Army of the Potomac. While it covers all the details and events, its strength is how it puts the events in a greater context of how it affected our country's future.
This is the final volume of the Army of the Potomac trilogy written by Bruce Catton about the Civil War. After spending some time visiting historical sites in and around Richmond, VA, I particularly wanted to read this account of the last year of the Civil War. In 1954, it won both the Pulitzer Prize for history and the National Book Award for non-fiction.In A Stillness at Appomattox, Catton walks his readers through the various battles that took place during that final bloody year of the Civil War. We gain glimpses into the character, relationships, military movements, and stratagems of major players such as Grant, Sheridan, and Lee, as well as of numerous more minor characters in that great tragedy.
For anyone interested in the Civil War or American history in general, author Bruce Catton's trilogy of books should be on your short list of 'must reads'.
"A Stillness at Appomattox" is Catton's final book on the Army of the Potomac.
Together, these three volumes are a masterpiece of historical narration.In my opinion, this third volume, "A Stillness at Appomattox" is the best of the trilogy.
His prose draws the reader into the emotional and physical experiences of the people involved and paints vivid pictures of the horrors of this war.
Amazing history of the Army of the Potomac, with details of life from the privates to the generals and the president and his cabinet. If you are interested in the US Civil War and haven't read this work... what are you waiting for?
The miners succeeded totally in exploding the enemy's lines, however, the army was not prepared to exploit the breech, and took a very long time to charge, eventually going down into the crater created by the explosion, then becoming trapped there, and easily killed by the reformed Confederate lines.It's an almost inexplicable story, and sheds light more, for me, on just how tired, hungry, and ill, these men were, and additionally, likely poorly educated with little ability to communicate using writing or maps.Additionally, I believe there is insight into the reasons behind the bitterness of "civil wars" as a genre.
A little dry but overall a nice union perspective of the end of the war in Virginia.
I loved reading this beautifully written series, which is part love song, part elegiac hymn to the ordinary Union soldier.
But the officers will be cleaner than the soldiers in the ranks, who will march through mud or dust, pounding rain, numbing cold, and sweltering heat, between halts to dig endless deep trenches and fight ferocious battles along a two-month trek for 150 miles to Petersburg, Virginia, where the survivors will live in filth and misery for another ten months until their final breakout to war's end at Appomattox Court House in April 1865.
A Stillness at Appomattox, the third book in his trilogy about the Army of the Potomac, is his crowning masterpiece.This book recounts the last year of the American Civil War as seen through the eyes of the commanders and men of the Army of the Potomac.
Catton writes in such a captivating, descriptive, realistic style that at times I felt immersed in the story, as if I was there myself.
This book is expertly researched by a talented story teller and supremely skilled writer.I've read a lot of Civil War books.
From Destruction to Stillness In this story of the final period of the war, we have passages graced by such lyrical quality it approaches poetic mastery.
Bruce Caton tells this story with a clarity and mastery of the subject that brings the reader in almost as a witness.
The descriptions of the men in their camps, the weather conditions on the battlefield, and descriptions of the sunsets after which men will die the following day approach the very best in the storytelling of the American Civil War. I wanted to read a book by Bruce Caton, and, I enjoyed this final volume in the series.
Though he doesn't dwell on the details of the battle, I love the way he brings about the circumstances of the before, during and aftermath of each one.
He also provides some descriptions on battles that weren't fought by the AotP but had an effect on the war nonetheless like the Shenandoah campaign by Sheridan and the failure by Butler on the Bermuda Hundred campaign.
Again, I couldn't give this 5 stars as with most of my comments, I hate books that describes troop movements but fail to accompany them with a map or maps.
Bruce Catton’s “Army of the Potomac” is a trilogy.Book#1: Mr. Lincoln’s ArmyBook#2: Glory RoadBook#3: A Stillness at Appomattox <-- reviewed hereBOOK#3: A STILLNESS AT APPOMATTOXSummary: Good history of the Army of the Potomac’s last year of Civil WarAlthough the 3rd book of a trilogy, it can easily be read as a standalone book (as I never read book#2).
All the major battles during that last year are covered.
One sees how Union miscommunications, timidity or delays (sometimes delays of only a couple hours) resulted in lost opportunities for the Union – and so a longer war with its corresponding higher death tolls.
This final volume of The Army Of The Potomac trilogy relates the final year of the American Civil War, and Catton shares the pathos of the time.
It is a stirring account of the longest year, and shares a detailed history of the Union army.Compared to works such as 'A Savage War: A Military History of the Civil War', the military context (distances, infrastructure, and nationalism) is not quite so examined, but the events and movements which had historic after effects are highlighted.
Catton's history is peppered with the writings of spectators and participants of the time in the work.
this is a reread for me ...
I read the entire trilogy (along with other one) some 25 years ago.
My reaction now is the same as it was then ...
fury and sorrow.
The Union generals were such a bunch of assholes ...
I was describing the book to my girlfriend just last night over the phone (she's working out of town) and she listened and was quiet for a few seconds and then asked if I was alright.
I guess I was pretty worked up about it.
a very good and timeless account of the last year of the US Civil War.
If you are unfamiliar with Bruce Catton, he was arguably the most renowned and well-respected Civil War historian of the 20th century.
In his last installment of the “Army of the Potomac Trilogy”, Catton tracks the end of the war from the summer of 1864 to the surrender at Appomattox in April of 1865.
Told with stunning clarity and amazing narrative, Catton weaves the successes and failures of both armies through the dying days of the war.
It is geared towards the enthusiast, but I feel anyone with a passing interest in the Civil War would thoroughly enjoy the book.
Bruce Catton is the Yankee version of Shelby Foote, and I hardly have higher praise than that.
A beautiful little book about a savage time, where the high politics and strategic maneuvering enter the story only as it relates to life for the average Union soldier.
The Army of the Potomac is no longer an army of volunteers or idealism, but a hard, "regular" force led by a determined driver who means to end the war come hell or high water.
It's not pleasant, but wars are won with such men.
This is the kind of book that makes you sad when it ends.
Calton's description of the battle at Spottsylvania is devastating. His writing is so compelling and gripping. You feel as if you are on the battlefield and are set to grieve with each loss of life. I am so glad to have read this Caron's moving accident nyt of the Army of the Potomac. Every historical person he writes about comes alive as a living, breathing human with emotions and cares. Beautifully written.
An excellent, brilliantly written conclusion to the Army of the Potomac trilogy. Catton is a master of combining politics, religion and the varying perspectives from the fighting foot-soldiers to the presidents and military leaders into a coherent explanation of events. If you are interested in the civil war, this series would be one of the first I would recommend reading.
Vivid account of the last year of the Civil War, bringing the trilogy to a close. Particularly good on the Petersburg siege and the missed opportunities at the beginning. I was hoping for more on the Shenandoah Valley campaign, as I knew less about that part. As with the other parts, captures the soldier's experience in detail.
