https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57727.L_A_Confidential
In the aftermath of the Bloody Christmas, the lives of three cops are forever entwined; Ed Exley, the by the book cop who is forever in his father's shadow, glory hound Jack Vincennes, and Bud White, the man forever avenging his dead mother.
Ellroy once again uses the hell's trinity of three cops with varying degrees of dirtiness to explore Hollywood's filthy and infected underbelly.The story started simply enough.
Jack Vincennes sells dirt to tabloids and Bud White's a heavy handed guy with a never ending beef with wifebeaters.Once the Nite Owl Massacre hits and the smut magazines rear their creepy masked heads, Ellroy shows just how dirty cops can be, with lots of withholding evidence and backstabbing.
We’ve all heard of the Good-Cop/Bad-Cop routine, but when you read a James Ellroy novel it’s more like Bad-Cop/Worse-Cop/Crimes-Against-Humanity-Cop.This third installment in the L.A. Quartet introduces us to another trio of police officers who wouldn't last ten minutes on the job if there were smart phones in the 1950s which could have recorded their many misdeeds.
There’s only about 40% of the plot from the page on the screen, but they did a masterful job of combining and condensing elements while preserving the essential feel of the book and smartly keeping the focus on its three flawed main characters.
Io spero che torni al più presto a mostrare il suo grande talento.Tre poliziotti, Ed Exley (Guy Pearce), Bud White (Russell Crowe) e Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) sono i protagonisti di questo ribollente vulcanico noir che attraversa gli anni Cinquanta della mecca del cinema, Hollywood Los Angeles, tra prostituzione, pornografia spinta, droga, collusione (corruzione) tra polizia, potere politico e criminalità organizzata (niente di nuovo sotto il sole?).Indagano, ciascuno a modo loro: uno è il cavaliere di tutte le donne indifese e un episodio del suo passato ha lasciato un marchio indelebile di dolore e sopraffazione, uno vuol fare carriera e sedere nella poltrona più grande e più comoda dove affondare la sua vigliaccheria, il terzo ama stazionare sotto flash luci e riflettori, flirtare col gossip e nascondere il mortale errore che ha commesso.Guy Pearce, quello che ha approfittato meno di questo ottimo trampolino di lancio.La quarta protagonista è la città, quella degli angeli, Los Angeles, costruita sul deserto in riva al mare, ciò nonostante piena di lati oscuri, in ombra.
Slowly these mysteries all seem to connect to the Nite Owl in some way and ultimately, the men must learn to put their differences aside as they realize that they are neck deep in a scandal bigger than anything they could've imagined, one that goes beyond the Nite Owl Massacre, one that involves filth porn, heroin, tabloid extortion, a popular kid's theme park (Disneyland anyone?), and high-class whores cut to look like movie stars.I mentioned before that the novel is even more epic than the previous ones in the L.A. Quartet, but is so huge that it's hard to keep track of at times, which makes for a slower read than the more focused stories in The Black Dahlia and The Big Nowhere.
Even when ya know the plot from the movie it’s still riveting!
1) Yes, this was excellent.2) Yes, this was hard-boiled.3) Yes, this had confusing storylines.4) Yes, this book needed a list of characters (unless you have an incredible memory.) 5) Yes, I wanted to give this book a solid five stars.
Ellroy wrote The Black Dahalia which I loved, giving it five stars and I fully expected this book to live up to my five star expectation.
I wondered, how does Ellroy expect the reader to remember John Doe who was mentioned on page 25, then repeated again on page 158?
So, in my mind there are no clear cut good guy/bad guys in the entire book.
"Whatever you desire.""...safe passage for ruthless men in love."Like Fight Club, 'L.A. Confidential' is one of those contemporary novels that provides a certain literary difficulty for readers who come to it AFTER the film dropped because the directors (David Fincher, Curtis Hanson) created such large, iconic images out of the novels.
L.A. Confidential's major characters are all very similar to the movie, but there are some major omissions and changes made in the movie that keep Elloroy's urtext both novel and different enough, to warrant your buck and your time.Ellroy is a modern master of the slow build, the dark, back motives, the inevitable bloodbath.
Rollo TommasiBisogna essere in perfetta forma per leggere questo libro: occhi, cuore, cervello, fiato, nervi, fegato, stomaco.
Non affezionatevi troppo a qualcuno di loro, potrebbe essere fatto fuori una decina di pagine più in là.Come Ellroy abbia potuto concepire una trama così ingarbugliata, dominandola alla perfezione dall’inizio alla fine senza perdere il bandolo della matassa e riuscire a realizzarla mantenendo il ritmo della narrazione sempre al massimo, per me è sbalorditivo.Poi verranno anche “American Tabloid”, “I miei luoghi oscuri”, “Sei pezzi da mille”, ma questo rimane a tutti gli effetti il mio Ellroy preferito.
Geniale!Molto bello anche il film di Curtis Hanson.https://youtu.be/ZE8NFujbeic
The never-ending parade of homogenous macho cops; the weak, dependable women - perfect victims for any crime; the overwhelmingly complex story line, sub-plot within sub-plot, twist upon twist - all that delivered in a flat, dry style.
I know that it's supposed to add up to this intricate, dark story interwoven with sex and violence and thus gripping, like nothing else.
After a while I stopped caring when yet another layer to the story was revealed; there's only so much dry plot that I can take.
Violence and sex will keep me interested for a little while, but unless it's happening to a well fleshed-out character that too will eventually start to disappoint.
It also spoils for those who didn’t know that Dudley Smith is as close to a main antagonist as this series is going to get, whereas if we didn’t have that prologue, newcomers could easily be taken in by his good nature and the friendship he seems to be forming with Bud. To a certain extent I wish it would have been the ACTUAL epilogue to the previous novel as we were certain Smith was a right asshole then, and though it would have been a bit of a downer ending, it would have been a nice way of cementing that Smith gets the solution he wants no matter what.
It is for these reasons that I call James Ellroy out as a full-blooded writer of historical fiction, not just crime or mystery!We stick with the three-character setup of the preceding book; again, all three are cops and they're even more interesting and complex than the previous three.
Ellroy fires all of this story at the reader like a full drum magazine from one of the era's famous Thompsons at a merciless pace and with a leaner, more staccato and brutal prose than the preceding books in the L.A. Quartet.
I had seen the superb movie many times (it's in my top five) before reading this book, and wondered how the two would compare.
The screenwriters did a fine job capturing the essence of the book while truncating the plot.The book is far more involved, with more seamy threads, the plot much more byzantine.
I was having a tough time figuring out how the evil scheme tied together, but Ellroy does a surprisingly good job of tying it together in a short time at the end, so read closely and stick with it.
While the movie was chock-full of badness, it didn't come close to the book.
Picking up where The Black Dahlia and The Big Nowhere left off, the third in the L.A. Quartet tracks the intertwining paths of three flawed and ambitious cops who emerge from a Bloody Christmas affair involving a bunch Mexicans locked up for the night.
Even the most noble of the characters here are relentlessly sleazy.
He is a key character in the plot, which I will say no more about, other than it's a cracking read, with many tense moments that should keep the hard-boiled crime fiction fan pleased.
The Big Nowhere edged out the rest as my favorite.
Κάτι περισσότερο από αριστούργημα!!! Καθηλωτικό από την πρώτη έως την τελευταία σελίδα.
Make no mistake, this is a raw, brutal and uncompromising tale of crime, corruption and conspiracies interspersed with some harsh morality and scenes of shocking violence (view spoiler)[ the waste disposal scene - oh my!
The plot is convoluted and unrolls over an 8-year period but this book is as much about atmosphere and character as about the unravelling of a crime.
So a wonderfully sleazy, grimy, grubby, world with characters who come to morally-ambiguous life on the page: the noir-est of noir.
I know that white cops in the 50s were racist-- I get it-- but the racism is almost sadistic in this book.
Like, did we really need all that detail?
Really?Maybe I started reading this under false pretenses.
I was like "Old Hollywood!
True crime!
I love crime writing, I love portraits of killers, and investigations of motive.
I do not like this book.
It's more about racist, lonely cops and less about Humanity, or Murder Itself, or even The Glamorous Lifestyle And How It Can Lead to Being Crazy.
I gave it 100 pages, and I am not reading the rest.
No redemption in James Ellroy’s L.A. ConfidentialMore corrupted cops, conniving DAs, ruthless gangsters, psychopathic killers.
More setups, more cover-ups, more fall guys, more hush-hushes.
Not in this novel, not in Ellroy’s world.Sergeant Jack Vincennes aka Trashcan Jack--celebrity cop, self-interested, killed an innocent couple while on dope, but hush-hush--investigates the making and distribution of pornography.
Sure, James Ellroy was building a canvass: pornography, prostitution, heroine trafficking, police extortion, political corruption--a dark portrait of the City of Angels in the 50’s.
One of the most satisfying plots in a mystery/crime novel, complex enough to keep the reader from dosing.Just too bad about not having a shootout between Ed Exley and Bud White.
Anche la prosa si fa potente strumento espressivo, passando da un registro più formale e articolato nelle parti denominate "Calendario" - che riportano atti d'ufficio, relazioni riservate o articoli di giornale - ad una forma sintetica, colloquiale e fortemente ellittica nel racconto vero e proprio dei fatti "dal vivo".
Le figure principali, nitidamente scolpite a tutto tondo nella loro forza, così come nella fragilità dei loro umani impulsi, si incuneano nel cuore del lettore come presenze vivide e reali, perché reale è il bivio in cui si trovano nell'eterna lotta tra bene e male.
It should be noted this is a genre book, that the dark and twisted streets here aren't for everyone.
If as a child you weren't willing to poke corpses with a stick or pick up rocks to watch the squirming, seething masses of insects swarm - maybe you should pass on Ellroy.Darker than dark, Ellroy's noir makes other noir books look like silver in comparison.
But if you want to go on the adventure with him (I took notes while I read and made my own outline) - Ellroy will make sure that he swings past some of the darker scenery while he shows you around LA.
(The movie is perhaps a classic of its type as well.)To give you an idea of how complex the plot is, the movie based on it was dumbed down in a severe way, and those I watched the movie with in the theatre said it was one of the more complicated films they'd ever seen.
The plot as in the book certainly had to get watered down.
No complaints here about that, and I usually will harp on that.And casting James Cromwell, the farmer from the (very good) talking-pig movie Babe, was inspired casting.Ellroy's other books pale in comparison to L.A. Confidential and The Black Dahlia, but in this genre, whose wouldn't?
The story jumps off the pages at you, filled with bad characters......bent cops/pimps/smut merchants/killers/mob members/crooked politicians /prostitutes,and dope peddlers.
Suffice it to say, it begins with the Bloody Christmas incident and the Nite Owl Diner Massacre which lead in many different directions.The major characters are very well drawn and there is no one in this book that doesn't have issues of some kind.......'aint nobody happy.It takes about a chapter to get acclimated to the 1950's cop slang but once you master it.
Although the book is violent, that violence is never gratuitous....it is just an integral part of the overall plot.
couldn't get past the racial epithets and cynicism about the human race. i read enough about such misery in headlines.
Whether the reader shares the impatience of the writer at those moments or not, the fictional time could be used to relate thoughts, feelings, etc., which are related in other places wastefully and without any concept of economy or even of coherent consciousness of character, psychology, flow of narrative events, you name it.
My impression is this guy is mentally ill and he just writes the way his readers read: Words on the page, sentences, look at me, I'm a writer, two more chapters before a do a line and jerk off to pornography.
Then Ellroy rubs his hands together and really gets going, with this shaggy, incredible novel of justice, violence, politicking, and redemption.Our LAPD trio here is Edmund "Ed" Exley, Wendell "Bud" White, and "Trashcan" Jack Vincennes.
He's a mid-century cop Machiavelli who would definitely tell you it's better to be feared than to be loved.The plot spans years, beginning with the real Bloody Christmas and the fictional Nite Owl murders, and encompassing prostitution, pornography, gang rape, Totally Not Disneyland, Mickey Cohen, gangland power vacuums, Dudley Smith's ruthless corruption, Ellis Loew's political maneuvering, and more, and like a lot of Ellroy, it excels at piling complications on and on and then actually sorting them out in a logical and emotionally satisfying way.
Ένα περίπλοκο, βαθύ και σκοτεινό αριστούργημα.
I remember the movie from a while ago, and I do enjoy a good James Ellroy novel, so I was excited to read LA Confidential.
One think I did find interesting, is the use of Mickey Cohen in the book, and the more I read about this gangster the more I think Patrick Fischler was just a perfect choice for him in the game L.A. Noire.While I think the three protagonists was a good way to do a complex storyline, I did feel lost at times.
Mi chiedo sinceramente come possa aver letto questo libro solo a 25 anni compiuti..L.A. Confidential è un pilastro.
Punto.Uno di quei pilastri che TUTTI dovrebbero leggere, non so se rendo..
Nota di grande biasimo per il traduttore che spero stia passando il resto della sua vita a Guantanamo per crimini contro l'umanità, perché se avessi voluto un libro tradotto come avrebbe potuto fare un cane usando google translate..
Non so sinceramente come la gente non si vergogni a presentare un lavoro simile..
"Sugar ti prendeva in giro perché sei un culo"...
Sei un culo?
Cioè, "You are an ass" me lo traduci alla Google translate?
imponente e ambizioso, nella struttura: trame e sottotrame, storie intricatissime che s'intrecciano e si ricongiungono nel finale che risolve ogni interrogativo e chiude il cerchio. personaggi che sono, allo stesso tempo, archetipici e vivi: poliziotti corrotti, gangster, spacciatori di qualunque cosa e sostanza, prostitute (nessuno è come sembra, poi- e questo li rende umani). impianto narrativo d'altri tempi ma stile da romanzo di genere- ecco il voto appena più basso di quel che dovrebbe essere. ottima lettura, in ogni caso.
La tercera parte del aclamado cuarteto de Los Ángeles.
Sin haber sabido leí la última parte antes de este: Jazz Blanco.Estamos acostumbrados a Ellroy.
Me gustó montones el desarrollo de los personajes, y como es la costumbre siempre hay un tipo duro que se lleva el libro.
Ahora muero por ver la película.La parte media-final se vuelve la más pesada, quieres adelantar y saber qué pasa, pero Ellroy se toma su tiempo para develar el misterio.De todo el cuarteto, mi favorito siempre será el gran desierto.No hay tanto que decir de los personajes ni de la trama, si han leído a Ellroy comprenderán.Habrá reseña.
Quando, tempo dopo, iniziai a leggere Deaver mi resi conto che quello stile che avevo trovato così nuovo e interessante era, in realtà, derivato (con una perdita nel processo, c'è da dirlo) proprio dal buon Jeffery; Faletti (che era anche amico di Deaver) era figlio dello stile e della narrazione dell'autore statunitense.Bene, la sensazione che si ha leggendo L.A. Confidential è esattamente la stessa se sostituiamo a "thriller" "noir/hard-boiled", a Deaver James Ellory e a Faletti una buona parte degli autori che sono venuti dopo.Non mi ero mai avvicinato a Ellroy, per me è sempre stato uno di quegli autori famosi, rinomati, adorati dai suoi lettori a cui prima o poi avrei dato una possibilità, possibilità che è giunta ora nella forma di L.A. Confidential.La prima impressione (che richiama quanto detto sopra) è che probabilmente su un'enciclopedia, alla voce "hard-boiled" dovrebbe comparire la foto di Ellroy: è il suo stile che ha posto le nuove basi per il genere, le ambientazioni, il modo di narrare secco e diretto, le immagini forti trasmesse senza un eccesso di descrizioni eppure vivide.Colpisce per immediatezza ed efficacia, così come colpiscono i suoi personaggi.
