https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/555926.The_New_Penguin_History_of_The_World
This book manages to provide a surprisingly good level of detail while keeping a wide breath of analysis and encompassing the whole of historical development since prehistory up to contemporary times.
Lack of timelines and suggested readings are also quite frustrating.
I personally think that timelines would have been extremely valuable for a book of such breadth and ambition, and I am very disappointed by the fact that there are none provided.Apart from the issues mentioned above, it is nonetheless an amazingly engrossing and rewarding read, so I am giving it 5 stars.
So, while Roberts does his best to give shape and clarity to an immense amount of information, it is not the most gripping read (although, with the broad strokes necessary for a work like this, I doubt anyone could concoct scintillating prose).Content-wise, there are two important weaknesses of the book.
However, in the preface Roberts is upfront about this focus and his reasons for it (mainly the disproportionate role Europe played in shaping world history, especially of the last 500 years), so you know what you're getting into.
We get a glimpse into their contribution towards the aggregation of capital and labor for the creation of 'leisure' and of economic surpluses over and above the needs of consumption that were so essential to the development of new ideas and inventions, as well as the modification of social organization and the growth of population which has made ours the dominant species of the planet with such unprecedented capacity to alter its environment.Despite having to employ, perforce, rather broad strokes in the attempt to condense the shared experience of millions of lives into a few pages of history, Dr Roberts manages to intersperse the account with enough whimsy to keep the narrative interesting.
He is concerned with civilizations that changed world history.
While he never characterizes Latin American or African civilizations as inferior, he simply holds that they did not have a wide impact in the world at large.The global triumph of European culture in modern times may seem a rather banal, stale even.
With the background provided from all of human history, when I came down to Professor Barrie's rendition of events in the last half of the Twentieth Century--events that I, as an older man now, lived through—the perspective that the book afforded was immensely satisfying.
For myself, I was motivated by a feeling that – despite history being a steady, lifelong component of my reading repertoire - I still hadn’t developed a complete sense of the “scaffolding” of human history, a full structural understanding that would allow me to know what “cubbyhole” to tuck new information into and that would help me understand how one historical development paralleled or drew from others.
After Roberts' death, Odd Arne Westad apparently took up the mantle, publishing an updated fifth edition in 2007 but I didn’t catch this when ordering my copy.
(This is, of course, a particular feature of many of the history books marketed around the idea of the Millennium, most of which are divided by century.)The value of books like this one to someone interested in history is to provide a wide context to areas of more detailed knowledge.
I have, for example, a particular liking for medieval history, and I would not turn to this book for a history of the medieval West, but for information on other periods and areas (particularly China and India) Roberts provides interesting background.
Roberts is a master of the broad brush, managing to make world history a page-turner and 1200 pages seem like 300 (or so).
With a weak power (Spain) controlling much of the areas south and west, and with France checked by Britain in North America, the US was able to expand in an essentially invisible bubble of protection created by Britain.
It was in Britain’s interests to let this weak little English-speaking upstart expand rather than allowing another European power to fill the relative void of North America (it doesn’t make it right, but one of the European powers would have done it if the US hadn’t).
A little more material on imperialism from the subjects perspective might have helped, although don't get the impression that the book is a whitewash.His prose is enjoyable, although his sentance structure could be improved at times, and the book provides a servicable set of maps.Anyone who reads this book will certainly gain a comprehensive and valuable overview of the forces of the past that manifestly continue to shape the world today, and a fine insight into the way human societies and cultures work.
The publishing company ought not to put their name in the title because it utterly changes my understanding of the book's topic.For the glory of the Horde!
Memandangkan China telah memberi kesan terhadap perkembangan negara2 sekitar seperti Korea dan Jepun dalam aspek intelektual dan budaya terutamanya, lewat pena penulis, pembaca akan mampu melihat negara2 Timur ini dalam perspektif yang bermakna.3) Terdapat perasaan bahawa anda sedang membaca a kind of People's History of The World dalam buku ini.People’s History adalah suatu topik kesarjanaan dalam bidang penulisan sejarah yang cuba untuk memberi perhatian lebih kepada apa yang berlaku kepada rakyat ramai dalam satu2 tempoh sejarah.
What a relief. I finally finished this book. Most history books that I've read I become too overwhelmed in details and feel like I have to force myself to continue reading, but this book is quite light-hearted and informative. Other than the fonts being incredibly small and can be tiresome to some, this book is dazzling as it covers human history from evolution to the present day. If you're like me - curious and have limited knowledge about the history, this book sure does makes it easy to get into.
None the less, the book gives fascinating context for the major trajectories in current world history -- post-Christianity, the rise of China, the decline of Europe even as it's civilisation continues to dominate the globe, historical patterns in US, Russian, Chinese, European and Indian politcs, the turmoil of the Middle East following the collapse of the Ottoman empire and the ongoing and extreme impact of technological advances globally.
Sorry to say, this is one of the worst books of history I've ever read.I failed to finish it, which is a big deal for me as I normally plow on regardless (After Tamerlane comes to mind).
Of course we all bring our biases to everything we do (this review is proof of that!), but to spout part of the Christian cannon's literary texts as actual history after dismissing other texts as untrustworthy historical guides seems a little too rich for my tastes.I knew he was a conservative, but this is plain obnoxious.
I found this book in the foreign section of a bookstore in Nishinomiya, Japan. I was looking for a long read to get me through my upcoming flight home. I was impressed by the relatively low weight and portability of this 1200-page monstrosity. Then I started to thumb through the sections, and the writing is unbelievably succinct, given the vastness of the subject. I quickly gave up the idea that I would ever read this book cover-to-cover. For me, the magic of this book is that I can turn to any page at all, and immediately become engrossed.
A single volume of world history isn't going to provide much depth about any one nation or era. But if, like me, you've never studied history formally and you only know bits and pieces, this 1200 page book does a masterful job of tying all the main strands of world history together into a single coherent narrative, which gives you a marvelous sense of historical context when looking at any particular cultural artifact, and some good clues on where to dig deeper.
The real value from it I gained was really putting all the history I knew about in the context of everything else that was going on at similar times throughout the ages.While more focussed works are often more engaging reads, they also often make the particular area they deal with seem like it is somehow more important than whatever else was going on at the time.
While when read at a broader level, the history of the world looks far more intertwined with everything happening everywhere else since long before communication made international cultural changes seem so immediate.
I resent the general shoddiness of my public education as far as history goes.
This was the best I could come up with as far as a general overview of the history of the world goes.
I think I injured my wrists holding this thing up in the Metro commuting from Montgomery County, MD into DC (this beast comes in at over 1200 pages, my friends).
My biggest complaint: the author doesn't give much coverage to religion--and when he does, he doesn't seem to take religion very seriously.Anyway, reading this helped, but I still consider my ignorance vast.
If you can recommend other general histories, please comment.
Now, keep in mind, a one-volume history of the world is a sisyphean endeavor -- just as you think you've got it all pared down to the essentials, another eventful decade leaves you with more chapters to write.
But in terms of giving the major themes of world history and particularly in comparing major civilizations, Roberts is really to be admired.
The writing is really excellent for something like this, and the chapters on pre-history and the ancient world are a wonderful primer for anyone wanting the basics in a well-written format.
As a survey from prehistory to modernity, density is to be expected.
However, the book is much like a commentary in tone, nonlinear in some areas, subjective in most, vague & meandering.
What resulted was a mere re-introduction to things about which I will, elsewhere, read more extensively.[After being drawn back to this book time and time again over the past 2 years since first reading it, I was compelled to alter my review.
I had to offer an additional star and the following words: What seemed vague and meandering has actually proven to be concise and contextually considered.
Every few years I read about 10 pages of this book. History has never been my strong suit and I would like to know more. It's just so dense that I may be reading it for the rest of my life. I will probably never finish this book, but I should...
I thought this was an interesting, well-written, concise (though thick) history of all the stuff that I felt like I should have known but had never been able to piece together.
A one-volume history of the world is quite an undertaking, and Roberts does as good of a job of providing as thorough of an overview as one could possibly expect in a shade over 1,000 pages.
By the time I was done, that notebook was full and I had a better understanding of how things are/were and what makes us all tick, and now the hard part is deciding which of these topics of which I know just enough I'd like to study more in-depth.
Great book for anyone wanting to get a bird's eye view of our history.
I'm much more interested in learning more about specific eras that were covered in the book now that I have a basic understanding of the big ideas of history.All that said, this book could be a bit boring at times due to the prose being too "flowery" at times with sentences running up to over 50 words.
Sentences often had a very complex structure making it harder to stay interested in reading.
But all in all, I consider the book worth the effort to decipher some of those long sentences.
Tarih öncesi çağlardan 18.yüzyıla değin gelişimimizi bir arada sunan bu kitap, insanlığa geniş bir çerçeveden bakmamızı sağlıyor. Tüm yeryüzündeki Medeniyet öncesini, medeniyet başlangıcını ve gelişimini gözler önüne sunuyor. Ancak bunu yaparken, aynı zamanda sosyolojik boyutu da işin içine sokması, medeniyetler arası ilişkileri ve etkileşimleri açıklamaya çalışması bana kalırsa okumayı bir parça zorlaştırıyor. Bazı yerlerde anlatılmak istenen durumlar çok fazla başka olaylarla ilişkilendirildiği için böylesi bir zorluk ortaya çıkıyor sanırım. Ancak neticede, bütün insanlık tarihi hakkında doyurucu bilgiye ulaşabilmemizi sağlıyor bu kitap. Başka tarih okumalarına da sizi sevk ediyor.
I love history! I bought this book because I had heard that it was written with the flow of a novel and not dry like a textbook. Well, it took me what felt like forever to finish it. I found this book dry and very wordy. It read more like a commentary than a retelling of world history. I would set it down and walk away from it for weeks at a time. I was determined to finish it...and so I did. Now I will be donating it to a used book store.
Has a section on Malthus and the effects of rising population on Europe at the start of Book 6 on the Great Acceleration. Quite challenging to read. It’s jumpy because of the scope it’s trying to cover and makes it hard to put everything he’s saying together. Still he ties rising population with problems and challenges in the 19th century.
So I haven't read every single word of this. It's not quite the kind of book you read cover to cover, but I've been dipping in and out of this for months now, and I'd say I've damn near all of it, if not literally all of it. And it's one of the great history books, if I'm qualified to say. Which I'm probably not.
1019 pages
At times illuminating, at times a ruthless slog through dry recitation of facts.
Obviously, it has a lit of territory to cover, and from this perspective can prove a little dense, but it seems to me that Roberts does a good job of being 'objective'.I believe the first half of the book is the best in providing a general overview of history as we know it (or at least, as Roberts has summarised it for us) and this is the most useful section to get a grasp on major ideas regarding the subject.
