https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270872.Sessiz_Ev
( it's a smaller book - less 'dense' than other Pamuk books I've read-- each chapter is short).
Right from the start the dialogue between the cranky old grandmother and Recep - her FRICKIN SLAVE HORSE -- a Saint to boot-is a dwarf....
The conflicts we see within the family parallel with the conflicts that we see politically between modern Turkey and their past which was rooted in more traditional religious beliefs.
I was in Turkey in 1973-74...Istanbul was a different place than it is today.
Reading Pamuk always triggers memories- and expands my views at the same time.
پاموک اعتراف می‌کند، تمام شخصیت‌ها در رمان «خانه خاموش»، بازتابی از او و احوالات متفاوت درونی ‌اش است: «کودکی ‌ام همواره با این تصور گذشت، که اورهانی دیگر، در خانه ی دیگری است».
پاموک اعتراف می‌کند که: «تک‌تک جوان‌های این رمان، خود من هستند...»؛ و اذعان می‌کند، از بین رمان‌هایی، که تا به امروز نوشته، «خانه خاموش» بیشترین محبوبیت را در میان جوان‌ها داشته، و دلیلش را هم در این می‌داند، که در این کتاب، چیزهایی در رابطه با دوران جوانی، و احوالات درونی خود، نوشته است: «برای نوشتن خانه خاموش، از اتفاقات زیادی الهام گرفتم، که یکی از آنها نامه ‌هایی بود، که پدربزرگم، در سال‌های جوانی، برای مادربزرگم می‌نوشت.
Or should he follow the stereotypical view of Eastern culture and attack a woman with left-wing values?For Pamuk, Turkey - and, in particular, Istanbul - is a liminal space, where history has entangled Western and Eastern values to such an extent that it's the most valuable setting for the novelist to explore some of the key political issues of our time.
Pamuk's Silent House is really Turkey itself.Which is a shame because silence can only hold for so long before violence erupts.
Her grandchildren “…still haven’t figured out their grandmother isn’t capable of any reaction except disgust.” ‘The Dwarf’ is the perfect servant, catering to the old lady’s and everyone else’s every need and whim despite the disdain and abuse.
The oldest grandson is a college professor, divorced, a dreamer, and an alcoholic.
In the last two traits he carries on a strong set of genes, because he is a third generation dreamer and alcoholic.
Their only son, now dead, the father of the three children, was a local low-level civil servant, also a dreamer and an alcoholic.
önce şunu not edeyim çünkü sürekli kıyasa gideceğim gibi bir his var içimde; bugüne kadar okuduğum diğer orhan pamuk romanları: kara kitap, yeni hayat, beyaz kale.goodreads'in verdiği tarihlere göre 14 günde okumuşum kitabı ama sorsanız bana 4 gün gibi geliyor.
kitabı okurken inanılmaz keyif aldım ama kara kitap'ı okurken yaşadığım o "şey", bunda yoktu ve olması da imkansızdı zaten.
yaklaşık 5 saattir ya kitabı düşünüyorum ya da internette kitapla ilgili yazılan review'ları okuyorum.çok dağınık gidiyor review, "e sen hep dağınık yazıyorsun zaten" diyeceksiniz ama bu sefer iyice dağıldım çünkü kitap da kurgu anlamında dağınıktı ve bunu yine kötü anlamda söylemiyorum.
When I first started reading Orhan Pamuk's books I really struggledand ended up abandoning Snow and 
Granted, this is a translation of a very old book and Snow is a fairly recent graduate of the Pamuk alum.
I'll come to that in a minute.Silent House is a story of a Turkish family headed by an old (highly loathsome) grandmother, Fatma.
(I know it's not in Snow - we're supposed to sympathize with the character and I don't think Ka personifies Turkey, at least, I hope not.) There are some interesting issues raised, about politics, about religion.
It's also disheartening, because from Silent House to Snow, I don't see Pamuk getting better.
The book was almost painful to read. A clash between the westernized intelligentsia and the nationalist poor, accompanied by sexual tensions, ends up in violence and death. Everybody wishes well, but everybody hurts everybody else. And upstairs stays a vicious traditionalist ninety-years old grandmother who rejects everything and everybody.
‘Silent House’ by Orhan Pamuk follows multiple individuals who reside in a small town outside of Istanbul; there is the matriarchal grandmother whose narrative constantly interweaves the past with the present, her past forming the crux of her existence.
The narrative constantly jumps between different points of views, with the style often incorporating stream-of-concioussness Pamuk renders the resort within which the novel is set with a kind of sable beauty; the night-sky merges with the city to form an endless expanse of darkness which is lit up by the stars and the street-light which serve to illuminate the lives of the youths whose hopes and dreams briefly flicker and burn out as the novel reaches it’s tragic conclusion.
I don't know why I waited so long to revisit Orhan Pamuk! Both My Name is Red and Snow have stayed with me for many years. The conflicts of an extended family in Silent House mirror the political and social world of 1980 Turkey. Pamuk is especially brilliant at capturing the self-destructive psyche of the male cousins. A terrifying and sad novel.
This book has a lot of characters to focus on which can make it tiring in the course of reading. For me, I wanted to hear more about Selahattin, his questionings and clashes and also Recep as well. The first 50 pages were more flowing for me (before the grandchildren got involved) and I found some of their personal stories “uninteresting.”There are memorable quotes in the book as well like “there’s no way to express history, or even life as it is, in words! the only solution would be to transform the structure of our brains...”
Pamuk has tried to explore the conflicts between religious and secular, nationalist and communist of Turkey through the story of an old lady and her grandchildren. But this work lacks the depth with which Pamuk wrote Snow thirty years later with a similar theme. Characters in Snow express opinions to explain which ideology they belong to clearly. But the people of Silent House are just blasphemous to prove their secularity.

کتاب عالی هست...فقط به صبر نیاز داره...توی 10 صفحه اخر اندازه 300 صفحه حرف هست....داستان 5 راوی اصلی داشت. رجب،فاطمه،فاروق،متین و حسن.شیوه نگارش پاموک در خانه خاموش مبتنی بر تکگویی درونی چند راوی است. پاموک در این رمان، از چند راوی برای روایت داستان استفاده کرده و روایت این چند راوی را به نحوی در هم تنیده است که هر روایت، روایتهای دیگر را چون تکهای از یک پازل تکمیل میکند. تاریخ، عشق، اشیا، شهر با تمام نمادهایش و پرسه بورخسوار در متون مکتوب و اوراقی که از دل خروارها خاک سر برمیآورند، جزوی از دغدغ
رجب،فاطمه،فاروق،متین و حسن.شیوه نگارش پاموک در خانه خاموش مبتنی بر تک‌گویی درونی چند راوی است.
تاریخ، عشق، اشیا، شهر با تمام نمادهایش و پرسه بورخس‌وار در متون مکتوب و اوراقی که از دل خروارها خاک سر برمی‌آورند، جزوی از دغدغه‌های ارهان پاموک در خانه خاموش است؛ دغدغه‌هایی که کم و بیش در آثار دیگر او نیز دیده می‌شوند.
اين رمان كه به شيوه جريان سيال ذهن نوشته شده، ماجراي سه نسل در يك خانواده است كه هر كدام از طريق تك‌گويي ماجراي زندگي و گذشته خود را بيان مي‌كنند.
تك‌گويي‌ها مانند حلقه‌هاي زنجير به يكديگر پيوند مي‌خورند و ساختار اصلي رمان را تشكيل مي‌دهند
This is a very well written book with extremely real characters, but I can't say I enjoyed it.
Appreciated maybe - It's a journey into nothingness and futility, anger spite & fear.
I felt like I needed a wash afterwards.
I found the Grandmother's vicious point of view particularly difficult to read.
I read the drunken rage and rape driving scenes with a kind of fascinated horror, needing to put the book down but forced to go on against my will.
The only light in this novel is snuffed out, and I guess that's the point.Relentless.
there are sick and deformed bodies (the servant is a little person, or, in the book's rendition, a dwarf), there is the restlessness of young men, and, last but definitely not least, there is a nice deep take on history and learnedness.
her husband selâhattin, now dead, spent his entire life working on a science-based, anti-religious encyclopedia, an enlightenment-flavored project for his fellow asians, who, in his view, are very backwards and nowhere near the intellectual level of europeans.
i found this whole part, this struggling with culture, knowledge and history, the most compelling part of the book.
Dinlemek isterseniz: http://sl.sabanciuniv.edu/sites/sl.sa...Selahattin: CumhuriyetFatma: Onu benimsemeyen halkÜveyler: Batılılaşma hareketleri Burada topal ve cüce halk tarafından Cumhuriyet'in gayri meşru çocuğu olarak görülüyor.
Sonuçta "kitabı yazması" yani devrimleri tamamlaması gerekiyor ve halka muhtaç.Doğan: Ülke için çabalayan, dürüst Cumhuriyetin yetiştirdiği ilk aydınlardan.
Tembel aydın.Nilgün ve Hasan: Devrimcilik ve milliyetçilik.
Fatma'nın (Halk) batılılaşmayı topal ve cüce bırakması.
İslamcı-Türkçü birisinin bu gazeteyi vatan hainlerinin gazetesi olarak görmesi buna bir örnek.Metin: Kapitalizm.
Cumhuriyetin yeni nesli ise sadece olayı para olarak görüyor.
Nilgün'ün başına gelenler: Cumhuriyetin üvey nesli tarafından zarar görüyor.
Halk tarafından cüce bırakılan batılılaşma önemsiyor fakat kimse ciddiye almıyor.
Сякаш ще се окаже вярно, че смелостта принадлежи на младостта, тъй като още във втория си роман, Памук си позволява разпространение на идеологии, които не всички писатели, особено в днешна цензурна Турция, биха внедрили в повествованието си.„Безмълвният дом” по своему е семейна сага, изключително разпознаваем турски роман, написан в стилистиката на съвременната турска литература, включвайки като основна идея в себе си политическото и класово разделение в обществото през 70-те и 80-те.
Pamuk’s books are dense and difficult, but well worth the effort, if one measures this by those “aha” moments occasionally triggered by great literature.Silent House is Pamuk’s second novel, first published in 1983.
In her second floor room, in the old house in a seaside village where she has spent her adult life, a frail ninety year old widow awaits the annual visit of her three grandchildren: overweight, alcoholic Faruk, a professor obsessed with history; his stylish, left-leaning younger sister Nilgün; and materialistic, self-absorbed college student Metin, who is saving his money to go to America and become a captain of industry.
Fundamentally, I believe, Silent House is a book about perception, memory and history.
Pamuk gives us multiple narrators to tell us the story of Turkey and its 20th century struggles as the border state between Europe and the Muslim nations of the middle east.
A pity that I don't know the history of the country, because I believe it would have enhanced my understanding, but still, a well written story of multiple generations and classes trying to adapt to a world that is changing without their consent and without a user manual.Recommended!
But unlike "The Museum of Innocence", "Silent House" is not narrated by a single obsessive voice, which gives the later novel an often claustrophobic atmosphere.
Then there are Recep, the patriarch's son by his mistress, who serves the widow in her decaying house, and Hasan, a grandson who, frustrated and grasping for hope, falls in with the nationalists, trying and failing to impress them.
Pamuk's unsparing view of Turkish society of the time finds both nationalism and modernism bankrupt, cloaks that allow the narrators to continue their self-deceptions.
Babaanne Fatma'dan, babaannenin büyük düşmanı -benim ise en sevdiğim karakter olan- cüce Recep'ten, Recep'in abisi İsmail'in oğlu, aslında okumaya devam etse çok daha iyi olacak taze "ülkücü" Hasan'dan, Fatma'nın oğlu alkole fazla düşkün tarihçi Faruk'tan ve Faruk'un zeki; ancak para kazanmaya kafayı takmış Metin'den dinliyoruz hikâyeyi.
(view spoiler)[ Bu noktada bahsetmem gerekiyor ki parası diğer arkadaşlarına göre daha az olan ve sürekli olarak kendisini çalışmak zorunda hisseden, parası çok olan arkadaşlarını hem içten içe aşağılayıp hem de onlara öykünen Metin'e karşı maddi durumu Metin'den daha kötü olan Hasan'ın benzer yönlerini okumak en keyif aldığım şey oldu roman boyunca.
تجري أحداث هذه الرواية في أواخر السبعينات بداية الثمانينات وهي مرحلة سياسية إنتقالية في التاريخ التركي وكذلك في الشرق الأوسط.
نقرأ هذه الرواية على لسان أكثر من راوٍ، فالحكاية تبدأ مع "رجب" الإبن غيرالشرعي لصلاح الدين.
ثم نسمع الحكاية من طرف غريب نوعًا ما عن العائلة وهو "حسن" إبن شقيق رجب إسماعيل وهو أيضًا الإبن الثاني غير الشرعي للطبيب صلاح الدين من والدة كانت تعمل خادمة في المنزل الذي حُكم عليه بالسكون.
الرواية ماتعة جدًا وتمنيت لو أنها لم تنته، رائعة من حيث الوصف والسرد والبوح بالمشاعر والأحاسيس عبر أكثر من وجهة نظر.
تجدر الإشارة إلى أنّ هذه الرواية هي الثانية لأورهان باموق والأولى التي تُرجمت للفرنسية.
In the end, she simply stays in her bedroom lamenting the loss of her riches and worrying about her stuff: “I can’t see my things anymore, they’re free of my glances, all silent and unto themselves, they think that even without me they can stay where they are, motionless, but I know you; you’re there, my furniture, you’re there next to me, as though you know I’m here.”Metin has class concerns and issues; he is not-really part of the upper class of the city.
He knows his place in the world and rather than wish it were different (as Metin and Hasan), he accepts it and strives to do his best.
Most of the voices - there was never any warning - I could quickly and easily tell apart, but the two teenage boys, Metin and Hasan were a bit difficult every now and then.
Purposely so, the translator tells me at the end of the book.Hasan and Metin are related, although they don't know it.
Filed in the reading challeng 2015 in the category "a book you have thought about reading for a long time".
Recep is the bastard son of Fatma’s wife with a crippled brother – it seems she beat them both as children which lead to both of their disabilities.
Fatma spends a long time brooding on her dead husband’s iniquities to her (he in turn we learn never really recovered from the Attaturk reform of the alphabet, rendering most of his work to date useless, the supposedly moderniser being caught out by modern reforms) and on the disappointment that her son followed a similar political path.
Father, son and grandson Faruk all share the same defeated character and revert to drink and to study to try and shut out the world.
E' la casa di Fatma, una nonnina di 90 anni, bisbetica, petulante, una casa che risuona del suo livore nei confronti del marito alcolista e attivista politico; è la casa di Recep, il nano; è la casa dei tre nipoti che giungono di tanto in tanto a trovarla.
Impariamo a conoscere i vari personaggi, grazie alle loro stesse parole, alle loro stesse voci, come se ogni capitolo fosse una delle tante vite che popolano questa casa, dove il non detto, il silenzio, appunto, è più forte del resto.Ed è qui la bellezza del libro: il fluire dei pensieri, delle sensazioni, delle emozioni di ognuno dei protagonisti, che vanno a comporre quel mosaico chiamato vita.
شیوه روایی کتاب برای من خیلی جالب بود.
برای همین، جا افتادن کتاب و شخصیتها تا تقریبا یک پنجم اول کتاب طول میکشه و کتاب تا اونجا نامفهومه، ولی همین که شخصیتها رو شناختی و رابطشون مشخص شد کتاب تو رو به دنبال خودش میکشه.
خيلي خوب بود اگر که يكي از راويان، از شخصیتهای زن جوان داستان بود.
قسمت جذاب کتاب برای من وارد شدن به هزارتوي رابطه انساني و بعضا همذات پنداري با شخصیتهای داستان بود.
در کل هنگام خوندن کتاب اوقات خوشی داشتم.
یک نکته دیگه در مورد کتاب اینه که فضای فرهنگی داستان که در ترکیه اتفاق میفته، تا حد زیادی به فضای ایران نزدیکه
"لا يمكنكِ أن تبدئي حياة جديدة، ولكن، إذا كان بيدكِ كتاب، مهما كان هذا الكتاب معقدًا وشائكًا، يمكن أن تعودي إلى بداية الكتاب المنتهي، وتقرئينه من جديد، لفهم الغامض والحياة، أليس كذلك يا فاطمة؟" بلاغة النهاية!رواية الشخصيات! اصوات مختلفة بتوجهاتها وبنزعاتها النفسية..رواية تعبر عن مرض الصمت..ما يدور بنفوسهم من غرور كان أو طمع أو طيبة أو احلام وآمال أو نهايات بائسة أكثر ما استفزني تلك العجوز وتأثرت فعلا ببكاء "متين"عند سريرها عندما قال لماذا مات أبي وامي وتعيشين انت؟ هذا عذابها!
"Pentru ca, asa cum aveam sa cuget cu mult mai tarziu, in timp ce stau aici, in pat, odata sfarsita, viata- calatoria aceea cu trasura pe care n-o faci decat o singura data- nu mai poate fi luata de la capat, insa daca ai o carte in mana, oricat de complicata si de incalcita ar fi ea, poti sa te intorci daca vrei, cand o ispravesti, la primele pagini, pentru a incerca sa deslusesti ceea ce ti s-a parut de nepatruns si pentru a pricepe insasi viata, nu-i asa, Fatma?"
