https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112077.The_Game_of_Kings
I would argue that classification.I spent years trying to get anyone I knew to read this book just so I could talk about it with someone other than myself.
I say the story stands on its own without the reader being as well-read as dear Dorothy.
Lazy readers.So I've either just given the least persuasive book review ever or I've challenged you.
It's one of my very favorite books and if you never read it that’s fine.
I'll just go in the other room and laugh to myself about Mungo’s pig.
When you follow and ask what I’m laughing about I’ll say “Oh nothing.
One of my favorite characters was a blind woman named Lady Christian Stewart who despite her affliction is brave and brilliant proving more than a match for Lymond in a battle of wits.
The book is set against the backdrop of an English invasion of Scotland with Mary Queen of Scots a mere tot and incapable of providing commanding leadership.
Men like Lymond have to stand up and do more than their share to insure that there remains a kingdom to be commanded.
In the next book in the series Lymond follows Mary Queen of Scots to France to insure her safety.
There was just so much I missed the first time around, and I could find the subtle, clever ways Dorothy Dunnett wrote her amazing first novel with.
If anyone intends to read this novel I would suggest reading it just for fun the first time around, and don't worry about all those Latin or Spanish phrases, unknown names and stories, and etc that gets everyone confused, because the plot eventually becomes clear.
Yes, the main character, Francis Lymond, spoke in damn riddles majority of the book.
Francis Lymond is everything you want in a character.
Read the damn novel!
Dorothy Dunnett uses chess terms as chapter titles and Middle English quotes about chess at the start of most chapters, and really this book is very much like one massive chess game, played by a master player.Parts of Game of Kings were completely fascinating: I always enjoy reading about a person who has their own mysterious agenda, which they follow to the end while everyone around them sees only their small piece of the puzzle.
In the hands of a less-skilled writer, this could have been a real page-turner The Game of Kings  has all the ingredients to make it an irresistible read: a romantic, handsome, complex hero, an exciting historical setting and era, family drama and politics, well-researched details and vivid descriptions, intrigue and mystery.But like the hero, Lymond, the novel itself is in turns brilliant and frustrating. Scotland, 1547. Diplomacy having failed, England has used force to bring Scotland into an
has all the ingredients to make it an irresistible read: a romantic, handsome, complex hero, an exciting historical setting and era, family drama and politics, well-researched details and vivid descriptions, intrigue and mystery.But like the hero, Lymond, the novel itself is in turns brilliant and frustrating.
A classical education, (perhaps even a master's degree in English Literature and a facility with a number of languages) notwithstanding, a reader is not going to fully understand or appreciate this.
For first-time readers, here’s a hint: just read it avoiding the untranslated texts, gloss over the rhymes and riddles of Lymond, and you might end up enjoying it.
Or probably ever, if I’m honest, not for this.It’s only the second time I’ve read this cover-to-cover.
Yet when I got to it again, it rang my whole brain like a bell because it turns out I did remember, I just remembered so far down it felt like it came from me.It’s a book with speeches, let me just repeat that.Okay, some actual content.
This is a ridiculous, absurd book where the main character is incomprehensible 75% of the time if you don’t have a Ph.D. in sixteenth-century literature, and you don’t have the faintest idea what anything means for about 500 pages, and I love it as passionately and unreservedly as all its excesses demand.
The analogy is deeply embedded at all the levels of the story - from the opening moves of Lymond stealing his mother's jewels, burning the family castle and flirting with his brother's wife, to his game of cat and mouse playing both sides against each other and stealing equally from the British and from the Scots, to the relative role of each piece on the board - passive kings and queens, fiery knights, besieged towers, wild horse runs or bishops betrayals.
One does not need a textbook to understand every fucking page, and you know what?
It doesn't mean they're average because the 'masses' can understand them (I genuinely saw people referring to the 'masses' in reviews today : are you guys for real?), no.
It means that their authors are master of storytelling, and do not feel the need to drown their readers in ludicrous and useless literary references to get their point across.
Yet first and foremost, they are stories, and the weight of references never becomes a burden the reader has to bear in order to unravel the layers and get to the fucking story.
"The Game of Kings" has all I need for the historical treat, interesting historical spices, naughty and evil main character, some action, peculiar writing.
Hmm...as long as I read Riyria Revelations alongside - it was ok, but when I ended up with Lymond and Lord Idiot (Dragon Actually) only, I felt that it was going to be a downfall for my reads.
After finishing Rise of Empire I couldn't get properly involved into reading "The Game of Kings" and it's bad, 'cause this book is really outstanding and it should keep me hooked without any additional help from Riyria or other books!
You start to make conjectures about the genesis of his mystifying feud with his elder brother, you mull earnestly over your own hypotheses that would explain things ranging from why he doesn’t kill his brother to why he seems to be courting his sister-in-law, you try to make sense of his mother’s baffling sang froid towards two sons that aim to rip each other’s throat, you laugh at Lymond’s abduction of a certain lady and the way he outmanoeuvres his pursuers, you admire his pluck, his ruthlessness, his apparent flexible morality, his devil-may-care attitude in playing chess with humans that results in the death of an innocent woman… By the time of the duel, you think you know—as much as you can surmise from the obscure narrative—who and what he is and what he may be doing or may have done.But then the last pages come.
Ever love a series of books so much that it is hard to describe just why you love them?I love Lymond.
He’s a 16th century polyglot scholar, soldier-for-hire, poet, musician, nobleman, and treasonous outlaw.
He is fascinating.I love the language that Dunnett uses to make Lymond and the rest of the characters come alive.
But you need Wikipedia to puzzle it out.I love the drama of Lymond’s story.
I love the ‘feeling’ of the story.
This is not a costume party book.I love everything about The Lymond Chronicles.
They covers so well its themes of betrayal and loss, love and loyalty, its stimulating mix of humor and adventure, and richness in characters and language.As a brief orientation, we are treated to the capers, conflicts, and liaisons of a mysterious outlaw in Scotland in the 1540’s, a time when the British and French are competing to eventually take over Scotland by setting up the marriage of their princes to the four-year old Queen Mary.
Some characters show their true selves or meet their just fate, and in that way the book is a romance.
This is my all time favorite series of books (it goes with the Niccolo series) and I don't think anything will ever even come close to topping it.
It's historical fiction at its best--accurate, well drawn, witty, intelligent, perfectly researched, and intricately designed.
These are not beach books.
They are so deeply enmeshed with each other and so perfectly written that someone wrote a guide to go with them.
If your brain and your imagination love to play, these will not disappoint.
Finally, I dare you not to fall in love with the protagonist.
Francis Crawford of Lymond, 16C's James Bond?
Francis Crawford of Lymond, a disgraced nobleman accused of treason sneaks back into Scotland and thus the game begins (to clear his name?
Lymond's escapades take him up and down the breadth of Scotland as Dunnett slowly peels back the layers of her story and keeps the reader guessing until the very end, finishing in a trial of ups and downs, twists and turns ala Perry Mason.
A solid five stars, and I am now starting book two in the series, Queens' Play (Lymond Chronicles, 2).
Staying up all night with a book is a pleasure when you have the morning to sleep in, not when your alarm rings before you've read the last page and you still haven't gone to bed.
I expect something to happen, or in a certain way, but what really happens is unexpected and much better.
But I was disabused of this train of thought by later appeared information and the characters' personalities.Some characters I wished would drop dead (view spoiler)[Will, the crazy f--ker.
My thought process leaves a lot to be expected on zero hours sleep.
Ok, I don't say this lightly but if one can make it through these books it will change your life.
It is an amazing historical fiction set during the 14th-15th century.
What I can say is the effect it had on me.The build up and release with the sixth book broke my heart.
I don't cry very much, and if a movie or book brings a tear to my eye I consider it pretty moving.
When I finished the last book, I lost it.
Cathartic and amazing.
It truly moved me and rekindled the romantic in my heart.
In particular, Pacat has modeled her character Laurent on the hero of this book, Francis Crawford of Lymond.
If you liked watching Laurent go undercover at the inn to deliver a coded message and then make a daring escape over the rooftops, just wait until you see Lymond adopt a ridiculous alter ego and sack a castle with its own defenses.
I also learned some cool new words like “sartorial,” “erumpent” and “susurrus.”From a gender perspective, it’s fantastic to read historical fiction where the women in the story are intelligent, vital characters.
Star Trek, deleted scene #674: McCoy: "He's dead, Jim."Kirk: "Hey, what's that stuck in his belly?"McCoy: "The Game of Kings: The Lymond Chronicles, Book 1. Poor bastard. He must've eaten the damn thing to end his suffering."Kirk: "...You're not gonna like what I brought along to read."McCoy: "What is it with you?"Seriously, though -- this book is boring, choppy, overwritten, wooden, & self-congratulatory. The flood of high ratings has me baffled. DNF & good riddance.[Edit: Shout-out to Robert McGinnis & his lovely vintage covers. He made the series look so appealing with his classic kissy-face poses.]
Back in the late 1950's (the book was published in 1961!!!!) Dorothy Dunnett confided to her husband that she could find nothing to read.
Said husband suggested that she write a book that she herself would like to read.
Sir Alastair Dunnett, because without your suggestion there might never have been written The Game of Kings; the first book in a series of 6 books jointly referred to as the Lymond Chronicles.
In my opinion THE BEST BOOKS ever written - series or not.
I knew absolutely nothing about the period of history this book is set in, the 1540s in Scotland, when I first started and I was quite lost even when I was enjoying myself reading it very much.
(Though sometimes I felt like strangling him.) I'll admit to struggling with this book at the start.
It's not an easy book to get into, I guess, with all the literary references (in many languages!) and the history and language in general.
I gave up trying to look things up after page 30.
It’s a heavy undertaking without taking into account that the main character Lymond is a polyglot, and constantly slips in and out of different languages.
I still really wanted to read this story though.
Just know that this is a book of secrets and lies.
If you don’t like these things in your historical fiction then you probably won’t enjoy this book.
There is a handy list of everyone at the front of the book which is very useful as there is a large cast of characters and it is a little difficult to follow who is who at some points.
I am now almost finished and while reading this afternoon, I found myself responding to the story in a visceral way and realized that Ms. Dunnett had quite magically wound the story around my emotions, pulling them out and into a great knot in my stomach as I wondered how Lymond was going to survive; knowing he would as there are five more books, my heart torn asunder by his battle with his brother, Richard.
Now, I think I will indulge in a little lightweight fantasy of Chicagoland Vampires and when in my car or walking my dogs, will listen to A Clash of Kings.
I was captivated, I had to keep turning the pages, and it was lovely to be able to listen to someone so much cleverer than me, who was so articulate, who had so much to say about a subject that she loved, talking at very great length …The story opens in Scotland, in the 1540s.The king’s widow, Mary of Guise, rules the country as regent for her infant daughter, who the world will come to know as Mary Queen of Scots.
The true nature of the conflict and the motivations of the characters were well-hidden, and the reader was left somewhat puzzled as to where this story was going.
At times the same character would be referred to by his given name, by his family name, by the name of his manor, or by his title.
The onion analogy is somewhat overused in literary circles, but it fits this novel -- layer after layer was peeled away chapter by chapter, and the reader began to see the immense richness the plot has to offer.The author also did a great job in encompassing us in a very believable setting that matched 16th century Scotland quite well.
Historical novel set in 16th century Scotland and England (later books in the series range farther afield).
Francis Crawford of Lymond returns to Scotland in despite a charge of treason hanging over his head and sets up a band of outlaws that causes havoc for forces on both sides of the English-Scottish war.
Lymond himself is in many ways the fictional descendant of Peter Wimsey and the Scarlet Pimpernel; he often infuriates me, but his story is never boring.The slow start is less of a problem upon re-reading.
First, I know it improves, and second, I can see how Dunnett sets the groundwork for later events in this book and the rest of the series.
Maybe I'll feel differently as I continue with the series, but as a stand alone novel, Game of Kings was disappointing.Maybe it's just me, but I don't think a novel should require a companion reference.
I continue to have high hopes for the series but am a little nervous to move on at this point.If you're interested in a more concise, funny, and accessible summary of this book - seriously lots of spoilers - you can read this, which is shared by Marquise in the comments below.
Five reasons NOT to read The Game Of Kings:1) The author is clearly looking for intelligent readers who are willing to invest a little sweat for the big payoff.
Note: Even if you arm yourself with a decent dictionary (like the one that my Nook uses) you won't find all the words Ms. Dunnett knows.
Game of Thrones has fantasy elements, plus political double-crossing, epic war scenes, spies and intrigue, non-stop questions about who's good and who's bad, incredible settings, medieval castles, violence, honor, love, hate, death, and direwolves.
The Game of Kings doesn't have fantasy elements.
My sister Julie got after me a little bit for giving five star ratings to some probably four star books that I just happened to love for whatever reason.
But I have to admit that some of the time, especially through some of the action scenes, it seemed like I was reading with glasses covered with Vaseline.
So, I made it through the book, I pretty much understood what happened, but it was not a fun experience for me.
There’s no doubt that the author’s a genius and amazing in certain ways, but it didn’t really work for me like my gold standard, the amazingly easy to understand and brilliant Lonesome Dove.
THE GAME OF KINGS (Historical Novel – non-mystery) – ExDorothy Dunnett – 1st of seriesIn 1547 Francis Crawford of Lymond returns to his native Scotland, which is threatened by an English invasion and the bloody rivalries of its nobles.
She does use a lot of foreign phrases, which can make the reader a bit frustrated, but one can either pass over them and not lose the effect of the story, join the Game of Kings group on Yahoo, or look them up either themselves or in Elpeth Morrison’s “Companion” books.
If you’re looking for a break from mysteries and love history, this is a marvelous alternative.
The unraveling of this complex character kept me hooked right to the end.The writing style is unashamedly dense with historical detail, the atmosphere of the period is painstakingly created.
The language is complex and difficult, littered with quotations in many languages and references to classical and early European mythology and politics.
Itoften has a similar effect on the reader as on the victim (reading on the kindle is useful as you are only a tap away from a Wikipedia or dictionary definition, although, often, Lynmond confounds both of these).
It was exhausting but rewarding to read and I have thought of little else for the past week.
