https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/726546.Tragedy_and_Hope
- reminds me in an odd way of Roger Penrose's almost equally massive The Road to Reality, which I read last year.
In both cases, we have an unusually gifted person, who sets out to present an integrated overview of an entire field.
For Penrose, it's modern physics; for Quigley, it's world history during the period from 1895 to 1960.
In both cases, we soon discover that the author has a highly non-standard but strangely persuasive view of their respective subject, which involves juxtaposition of elements normally considered in isolation.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Somehow, I got the impression that this was "THE" go-to history book to explain conspiracy theories.
A bit of searching on the internet seems to confirm that many people view it this way as well, though I also quickly got the impression that most people don't read T&H, but another book that quotes some portions of T&H: None Dare Call It Conspiracy.
Of course, many of the ways he presents things, especially other cultures, now seem prejudiced and dated, but it was written 50 years ago, ya know??I still want to read his book: The Evolution of Civilizations.
This book covers 15o years (up to the 1960s) of social development that Quigley associates with the rise of positions of power in the western world. As daunting a book as it may seem, it is one that must be read. Power, economic influence, globalism and the transnational forms of government. If you can get your hands on it, read it.
I read this back in the early 90's. I was lucky to get it on interlibrary loan, as it was out of print then. I'm so glad it is back in print now. It is essential reading if you want to know more about what happened and who caused it to happen. I'm looking forward to reading it again.
There have been other drivers of interest for Quigley (and this volume) as well, not all of them laudable or fair.I rated the book highly because of the impact it (and the class for which it was read) has had on me.
To some extent that is OK, but I increasingly find it important to double check the sources and examine detail below the level of the main story.Quigley is also prone to considerable generalization and I came to view my subsequent education as a process of finding out which of my undergraduate revelations held up under more focused scrutiny.
Why do they call it Conspiracy THEORY when there are books like this on the market? Carroll Quigley (mentor to Bill Clinton and others) is unapologetic in his socialistic/neoMarxist/fascistic leanings. He details how socialists and others have and are taking away our freedoms and why. WOW! This book is an eye-opener. I wish I had a personal copy of it (I had checked it out through inter-library loan).
Totally looking forward to reading this.
Quigley writes, (quote) Thus there were, in the period 1871-1900, three great groups in France: (a) the alliance of Jews and Catholics dominated by Rothschild; (b) the alliance of Catholic industrialists and Catholic bankers dominated by Schneider, the steel manufacturer; and (c) the group of Protestant bankers dominated by Mirabaud…The first waxed wealthy in the period 1871-1900, chiefly through its control of the greatest French investment bank, the Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas (Paribas).
I don't think that the "&" on the cover page of the present edition was always in "purgatory pink" for instance.Written in 1966 Quigley was supposedly a political insider with the Rhodes scholar people.
This is nothing new since national security is always the rationalization for forgoing freedom or law or tradition or custom or popular desires for secret government policies of paternal inclinations.I think the difference here is that Quigley is telling the reader (buried in 1000 pages of contemporary history) that unbeknownst this is already the case.
It's quite annoying when the only types of atrocities the writer condemns are the ones done by communists, while others, such as the purges in Indonesia, are barely mentioned.Another thing I didn't like were the last few chapters where the author switches from warfare and economics to psychology of the masses.
The chapters about the American middle class and the battle of the sexes are downright ridiculous.
This kind of moralizing does nothing but damage the writer's credibility.The best parts are those that concern the first half of the twentieth century.
This pro Anglo-American stance eventually becomes annoying.
But what made this book famous - or infamous - is how this establishment insider, Georgetown professor Carroll Quigley, tells all about the conspiracy to establish the second coming of the British Empire, albeit under the radar.
Quigley names names, dates, events, plots, puppet institutions & anything you'd want to know about who is directing the course of the world and has been for a hundred years.
The author had full access to archives of the most sensitive nature and was excoriated for this expose, but he thought a One World Government would be a good thing and wanted to bring its heroes out into the sun.
Frankly, a disappointing book. For all its bulk and the hype surrounding it, this is definitely not an insider's look at how the "Eastern Establishment" operates. Rather, it is one professor's rather slanted interpretation of world history from about 1890 through 1963. Professor Quigley ran out of invectives to hurl at Joe McCarthy, but utters barely a whisper about Harry Hopkins (close adviser to FDR) and other players who likely had more long term influence (and did more damage) than McCarthy. For a sound, objective look at history and economics, go to books by Murray Rothbard.
This is a massive beast of a book covering world history from roughly early 19th century through the early 1960's. Though I had to force myself to focus by setting a minimum page requirement to read per day, it was very interesting and I learned a lot, broadening my knowledge base on certain subjects and revealing my near complete lack of knowledge on others, one of which is economics. Hard work to get through, but worth it.
I just added this to my "to read" list, however stuff like the following may cause me to have some disagreement with this book: "while the Right follows the Manichaean doctrine imported into Christianity by Saint Augustine (evil is a positive force, and man needs strong external discipline to protect him from it)".
Quigley taught at Georgetown, after a long career that involved him behind the scenes in international bidniss. His perspective is often financial, but his insights are crisp and amazing. This book changed my perspective on history in some interesting ways. Oh, one of his students was a young Bill Clinton.
You're not gonna find a better history book. Leave's "The People's History of the United States" in the dust.
Fortunately this book does have some rewarding sections which save it from a sleeper, but if I were to rate it at this point (up to beginning of Chapter XIII) I would only give it a 3 star rating and if it were not for the author's superb grasp of economics and it's interplay on the events of world history I would give it an even lower rating of two stars.
I find myself struggling to stay awake on some pages that seem to go on and on regarding economic policy in pre-war Europe, and yet on some sections I can't put the book down when the author ties these policies into the politics and current events of the times.
What an ambish book, trying to cover "world history in our time" This book is dense as War and Peace, and War What Is It Good For. I am only reading parts of it; we are on page 532,372 and the topic is McCarthyism and the Cold War. If you are knowledgeable about this McCarthyism topic, or history in general, let's talk!I would like to compare Quigley's finance and detail heavy text on The Cold War to Howard Zinn's text on the subject in The History of The United States.
You could also compare Rambo movies to see who the US portrayed as the enemy at that time in history (one Rambo movie has the Ruskies as enemy agnst the Afghans, another Rambo portrays the Afghans as evil!)I am learning so much by reading and analyzing this with my honey!
http://www.carrollquigley.net/pdf/Tra...
Read this if you want to shatter your perception of how the world works. Also good for inducing sleep.
The neoisolationists have taken over and Quigley's rolling in his grave. Let's hope 50 million people won't die again as we transition from the 20th to the 21st Century.
However, I only give it three stars because of the obvious slant of the author toward international intervention in global problems.
Quigley adopts the world view of secular humanists that man is basically good and a little lower than a god in the universal hierarchy of authority.
Otherwise, all conflicts between the peoples of Earth will continually result in failure.Quigley has willful disdain for anyone with a different opinion concerning international matters and refers to them as "neo-isolationists." He neglects to consider the ramifications of foreign entanglements and naively sees all conflict on the world stage as lack of consideration for fellow man.
The last hundred pages; Quigley’s ideas on the future, were slow and tedious to get through.
From another aspect, I look at the neighbors with little kids the same ages I was during the 50’s , and wonder about my folks and Aunts and Uncles, and their behavior and personalities, and how they were affected growing up in the depression and then just going into high school when Hiroshima was bombed .
When I was the age they were then, MLK & RFK were assassinated a few weeks apart.
Quigley’s step by step account of the process of making the Atomic Bomb was riveting.
Quigley is an Anglophile so don't expect anything really critical of the British or American empire.
The English race are just neurologically good liberals whereas the Germans are simply neurologically totalitarians; you've got to read other accounts alongside this to counteract the one-sided claims.He obviously never really studied Marx beyond some summaries of Leninism but he's still obviously influenced by the monopoly capitalism thesis which in retrospect was wrong since finance was really always waiting to reassert itself.
Obviously a lot of the information in this is outdated in light of documents released in more recent years, e.g. the full extent of failures and deaths by the Soviets in the space race.
Massive book, but interesting if you like conspiracy theories.
Mind numbingly boring.
One of the finest books ever. You MUST read this book. Quigley explains it all. He GETS it.
One of the best books ever. One of the few books that everyone, really, should - really should - read.
I have 8 lectures on the totality of this work at my site and on YouTube.
Great book! Provides a unique perspective of recent history by analyzing events from different areas such as military, social, economic and technological developments and how one affects the others.It also provides an interesting insight of the ruling class of the different powers and how their views and relation shaped the path of history.The analysis of the entire world by region is also a novelty, avoiding the common practice of centering in North America and Europe.
