https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77606.The_Golden_Spiders
Not only does it bring bad reputation, but it is also very damaging to self-esteem, something Nero Wolfe values highly.
The detective who charges such high fees that only millionaires can afford his services most of the time now only has $4.30 to show for his troubles with not a single penny more on the horizon.
It was one of the first Nero Wolfe books I read and as such I might rate it a little higher than the usual, but not by much.
It is a rare treat to see Nero Wolfe working for no fee and on a personal case.
This novel begins promisingly. A street kid who works the corner as a windshield-cleaner sees something suspicious, comes to Wolfe for help, and is found dead the next day. The resolution, however. is rather conventional, and the suspects not particularly interesting. As always, though, Wolfe and Archie are wonderful.
Trying to determine why his last two clients were ruthlessly murdered, Nero Wolfe wonders if the answer is linked to a young boy who turns up at his brownstone apartment and finds clues in a gray Cadillac, a mysterious woman, and spider-shaped earrings.
"Las Arañas de Oro" es una novela corta y concisa, lo que no le quita que esté cargada de personajes secundarios, en eso Stout es bien inglés (a pesar de ser norteamericano).
Narra uno de los millares de casos que Stout escribió del detective Nero Wolfe y su ayudante (y encargado del "trabajo sucio") Archie Goodwill, en el que el investigador se ve obligado a indagar sobre la muerte de un niño limpiaparabrisas atropellado en pleno Manhattan.
Algo simplona a ratos y, como ya dije, con muchos personajes secundarios, sin mucha profundidad.
Twelve year old Pete Drossos, who lives in Nero Wolfe's neighborhood, saw something strange as he was trying to earn money by washing car windshields at a corner.
It's only $4.30, but perhaps because the kid ate at Wolfe's table and it is thus a matter of honor, he's willing to look into it.
The earrings are just as described.This story was my first exposure to Nero Wolfe.
But I can't go on and spoil too much, here.Added Note: At least twice after this, when Wolfe is called on to work under an alias, he chooses the first name of "Peter." I theorize this is a nod to the memory of Pete Drossos.
Connecticut, Y, Y, nove, quattro, tre, dueI classici del giallo hanno sempre un qualcosa in più che li rende irresistibili.
Al semaforo dove è solito appostarsi, si è fermata una Cadillac targata Connecticut, Y, Y, nove, quattro, tre, due, con a bordo un uomo con la faccia da farabutto e una donna con degli eleganti orecchini d’oro a forma di ragno.
Una catena di omicidi, che sembra non avere fine, è pane per i denti del corpulento genio annidato fra le mura della casa in arenaria della 35° Strada Ovest.Come sempre, tocca a Wolfe consegnare il colpevole all’ispettore Cramer, ma REX STOUT, nel raccontarcelo, non manca di stupirci con tecniche narrative ricche di suspense e colpi di scena, ma soprattutto memorabili idee geniali.
Nero & Archie at their best.A young man arrives at Nero's door with a case.
The case, he explains, began when he was attempting to wash the windshields of cars as they stopped for a red light.
This particular case had a woman driving with a man in the passenger seat.
The 2 facts the lad remembers are that the car has a Connecticut license and that the woman wore golden spider earrings.Archie is on the hunt for a jewelry store that sold those very earrings and a trace on the license plate.
Nero Wolfe mysteries are among my favorites for light hearted yet relatively complex plots. This was a weaker entry, but well written even so. I found the characters difficult to connect with and there seemed to be less interplay between Archie and Nero than usual. The entire story seemed to have been written more formulaically than previous entries in this much loved series. Good, but well short of great.
Suspects in Nero Wolfe books aren't particularly interesting. There, I said it. But that said, who cares? Archie, Wolfe, Kramer, Fritz, Saul, Stebbins, and so on are beautifully created, and their confrontations with business people, lawyers, and each other are always readable and fun. Nothing really needs to happen to make this work; but in this particular one, so much happens (even a scene of torture) it's almost distracting. Still, Wolfe gets to hold forth, Archie gets to wisecrack, and I will definitely forget who did it in a month.
I love the characters in these books but find the language is a little...odd to me and it can be distracting and take longer than it should to read. Interesting plot on this one.
Funny.
I love Rex Stout books.
The Golden Spiders fills the bill just as well as other Stout books that I've read.
But there is one difference from previous books I've read in this series: a scene of violence.Like with Robert B.
I'm not too in love with the current idea that all must be shown, none left to the imagination; that the writer/filmmaker must do all the imaginative work, and the reader just sits back and takes in the words.Since this was my first time reading The Golden Spiders, I did not read the introduction.
I usually peruse those on my second or third reads.
Nero Wolfe finds himself working for a twelve year old boy for the princely sum of $4.30 after the lad shows up on his doorstep with an interesting case. The case centers around a mysterious woman, spider shaped golden earrings, and a mysterious car. This is a great vintage detective story.
I love Archie as the protagonist and sidekick.
I love the way he continually tries to annoy Wolfe, and his (Archie's) mindset.
I love his attitude.Like I said, I'm on my fourth book (Golden Spiders, Fer-de-lance, League of Frightened Men, and Too Many Cooks), and I will strongly recommend reading League of Frightened Men. But since it might be the best book in the series, it may be good to start on another book, just to get a sense of the series.
It's not like you must read them in order or that the earlier books are one way and the later books another (I think).
I think Stout deliberately kept the same tone and style throughout the series.
Pretty near the top of the list of fave books for Stout fans.Prisoners Base, Golden Spiders, and Black Mountain can be looked as a bit of trilogy, pushing and pulling the core concepts of the series.
GS gives us a peek at what Goodwin, Panzer, Durkin and Cather would really be like out in the field, in the tough city, away from the cultured safety of Nero's brownstone.
BM brings Nero to his original home, and also plays with what make Nero Nero even when we remove all the familiar, loved rituals of the brownstone.
In the Best Family was an early indicator of Stout's experimenting with the series' formula.
This one was GREAT.
A couple truly excellent scenes.
Actually watching Cramer at work dismantling a crooked lawyer in an intense interview.
Fred Durkin at the mercy of a couple gangsters with torture implements and an eleventh hour rescue.
The mystery left a lot to be figured out by oneself at the end.
Wolfe IDs the murderer and gives us a couple tip-offs as to why he suspected that person (though the actual clinch moment, as per usual, happens off-screen.) Still, there's a whole blackmailing circle and various character motives that never really get fleshed out.
We're still talking about it days later.
In my slow reading through the Nero Wolfe books in order, I am up to 22. My first in over a year. Whilst I have read many before, this is the first time I had read this one. In terms of the plotting and action, it is one of the best of the series. It doesn't perhaps have the humour of some, but it does have Nero and Archie winding each other up for much of the time - which is always entertaining. A thoroughly good read.
starting convincing me this would be good "old crimi", lazy but smart Nero gets subsequent murders of clients/suspects/witnesses ( and get angry about it ), then narrating is subsided and submerged to medley of following suspects with less action, next to the end story moves to Neros triumphiant solo investigation before own employers-PIs, policemates and accused people in between them is a killer. Very eligible and with "a few surprises " book .
starting convincing me this would be good "old crimi", lazy but smart Nero gets subsequent murders of clients/suspects/witnesses ( and get angry about it ), then narrating is subsided and submerged to medley of following suspects with less action, next to the end story moves to Nero´s triumphiant solo investigation before own employers-PI´s, policemates and accused people in between them is a killer. Very eligible and with "a few surprises " book .
This might have been the first time Stout let a child into the story, and while Stout is no great character developer, he still manages to instil some sympathy towards the child in the reader. It is hard to write much about Stout's Nero Wolfe books without adding spoilers, however small, but I do think this is my favourite so far. A bit unexpected since I am otherwise more fond of the earlier ones, with a milk drinking Goodwin. Why doesn't he drink milk anymore?
One of the best Nero Wolfe MysteriesThe Golden Spiders contains one of my favorite characters, Pete Drossos, a 12 year old, who comes to consult Wolfe. It also contains great dialogue and interaction between Wolfe's employees, Archie, Saul, Fred and Orrie. Fred Durkin, so often characterized as somewhat thickheaded and plodding gets his chance to show he's got the right stuff. This is classic Wolfe.
Not the best of Rex Stout's books. It starts off with a twelve-year-old who raises money by washing car windows at stop lights coming in to hire Wolfe. Archie thinks it's a great lark so he lets the boy in. During dinner. But then the boy is run over and killed. And there are so many people and so much going on that it's hard to tell exactly what the story is.
I enjoyed the book very much. Light-hearted, cozy detective story. Smooth reading. Action, mystery, humor, attitude, everything is well balanced. The writing is so easy. It reminds me of Jeeves & Wooster, even though they are in different catalogs.
Very topical actually on the DP story line, but read like a crime novel, i.e. dealing with organized crime. Different in that most of the action took place away from the house and Archie got a lot more ink, was really the center of the book, more so than usual.
This was great. The start was rough for me to read, but I’m sensitive. I thought the twists and turns were especially good. Top ten for sure, perhaps even top five, for Nero Wolfe books!! It is very nice sometimes to see Wolfe’s softer side.
I always love that the Wolfe books remember that poor people exist, and this is one of the best. The kid who is murdered in this one is a windscreen washer; that doesn't mean his life is any less important or that his mother misses him any less.
I liked this one for all the rules Nero broke. His own rules. To avenge the murders of two good people, more accurately to earn the fees they paid him. I did have the killer pegged early on, but that didn't diminish anything.
How awesome is Rex Stout!?! This was one had a very good action scene that I certainly wasn't expecting. And the usual wrap up at the end was great, with a very last minute twist. I think the McNally series by Lawrence Sanders is a similar style and that is why I like them also.
My first Nero WolfeI'll save my option of Rex Stouts writing style till after I have read several more. Nero Wolfe is not a very likeable character imho, but neither was Hercule Poirot at first. This book was an easy read, the story has lots of twists, a good whodunit.
This book is a little frenetic, but there's an interesting plot, though he used the same twist in another book, so those who've read the canon will probably see it coming. A case that Wolfe gets into initially for a retainer of a little over $4.
An excellent fast-paced work amongst the Nero Wolfe mysteries. The whole plot hinges around the mysterious Golden Spider earrings which a dead child saw a woman wearing as she called out to the child for help before disappearing...
