https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69719.Lucy
This results in an interesting coming-of-age story, with themes of race and migration added to it, as well as colonialism, the remnants of which continue to reverberate.This book definitely resonated with me and I could relate to Lucy's experiences in some sense.
In particular, the daffodil, to the American woman, meant the beauty of Spring and the promises of new beginnings, while for Lucy who'd had to learn Wordsworth's poem, it meant remembering colonialism and the absurdity of having to memorize poems about flowers that didn't even grow in her part of the world.
Then, almost as soon as I started reading it, I came across the following passage, which I found completely awesome, but which is the kind of thing that I would imagine makes Kincaid hard to teach to undergrads:"I had placed these letters [from her family back home] inside my brassiere, and carried them around with me wherever I went.
I wished that I had an enormous scythe; I would just walk down the path, dragging it alongside me, and I would cut these flowers down at the place where they emerged from the ground" (29).Now, Kincaid does end up explaining why Lucy has this feeling, and it's very important, but I can just see my students now: "Why is the protagonist so angry"?
I think it will speak to many women.I love Kincaid’s writing.
It captures wonderfully how people feel and think.
It was why men like laws so much; it was why they had to invent such things--they need a guide.
She has employment for one year and is to care for four young girls of a well-off, good-looking couple.
It is also about marital relationships and friendship.We all have extremely different lives, but the book provides common ground for women to relate to, regardless of age, station in life and cultural ties.
If you enjoy books that make you think, it is.
*Rereading this book.
First time I read it was in 2013 for a class, now I'm rereading for another class for the exact same professor.
Clearly she adores this book.
Hoping I get more out of it this time.Update: I got nothing new out of it the second time around.
Her character doesn't make sense to me and her story frustrates me in ways that I don't find very productive.
Not to mention the fact that I hate the ending and the way it just drops off without a real conclusion, in my opinion.
Clearly this story is super not for me.
I loved reading Lucy so much that it makes me want to go back and read Jamaica Kincaid's Annie John all over again because I think I'm "ready," now, for this writer's particular voice.

A powerful and taut read.
I'm surprised to see a lot of people didn't like Lucy because she was "so angry." I found her a very poignant character.
She is also really hard on herself, but we the reader should be able to read between the lines.
Kincaid manages to explore many themes here with brevity but also with great depth in a very original way.
I have read many novels on the theme of the immigrant experience and post-colonialism, but "Lucy" has added something new to my understanding.
Kincaid is unapologetic but doesn't come off as preachy or one-sided.
Not only family, though; Lucy examines what she learned back home, and sifts the views she considers worth keeping in her new situation (men are not to be trusted, a woman must be financially independent) from the ones she finds painfully unjust and restrictive (a girl must never hope to be educated for a profession that is not feminized, like a nurse, or be sexually liberated - bear in mind that the novel is set in 1968 or 1969).
This was a short book, and I read it in one night, but it will take several more readings for me to really decide how i feel about it.
I do really like this book.
But sometimes, I feel like Lucy lives in my skin, and sometimes, I don't know who Lucy is at all.
This book was so beautifully written, with such a complex character.
But it is so short.
It needs to be to hold its sense of poetry, but it left me wanting more detail.
This is a book that will make you work.
Be prepared to read it slowly.
This book is one of my absolute favorite books of all time. Check out my mini-review here:Top 5 Required Reading.
I have come to really enjoy Jamaica Kincaid's style of writing.
Lucy- the protagonist of the novel was a sorrowful, bitter person and I blame her abandoned upbringing and the love-hate relationship she had with her mother as the cause.
The novel in general was full of misery- not only from the protagonist, but also from the family Lucy was working for (Mariah and Lewis).
There was a deep void in Lucy's life and I believe only her mother's love could fill it.
Kincaid seems to enjoy writing on mother-daughter relationships in these two novels...
this novel moved me in so many ways i cannot even begin to explain it in enough words.
first of all it's about a young caribbean woman from antigua who is 19 years old.
now although new york city is never mentioned as the setting, it is clear that the novel takes place in nyc.
the descriptions of the city with all of its beauty and ugliness are riveting and forces one to take a deeper look at him/herself.
in many ways this novel is a stream of consciousness, told in the first-person narrative.
I understand not every bad person has a reason for being bad, but specifically in this case - we barely learn anything about her life in Antigua and if, then it's told in such a detached way it doesn't appear to have influenced her at all.Actually, this is true for most of the book - I felt so detached reading it, as if I was IN Lucy's mind listening to her commentary on a movie only she was watching.Also, as part of a coming-of-age story one is typically supposed to do some growing up - I didn't feel like that was the case with Lucy at all, mainly because there was no before-after comparison.
What product of the post-colonial west indies wouldn't be, especially when faced with the excess and first world problems of her host family/employers?Ultimately, however, the great thing about this novel is Kincaid's ability to present the overlap of the political and personal in issues of exile and the post-colonial condition.
Since Lucy is both crossing from the West Indies (Antigua?) and into adulthood/independence, there is ample room for her voice to explore the intersection of her personal individual past and the relationship between her homeland’s (British) colonial masters and her position as an au pair.
Furthermore, it presents the readers with a place to also examine the gender expectations that color the post-colonial possibilities for a citizen of those (former) colonies.
Nonostante sia un romanzo breve e pieno di temi interessanti (l'emigrazione, le profonde differenze culturali e sociali, il conflitto madre/figlia, lo sfaldamento di famiglie apparentemente perfette) mi ha annoiato a morte.Nessun tema è stato approfondito dall'autrice e la stitichezza emotiva della protagonista ha posato una pietra tombale sul mio interesse.
..."Men det fanns heller inget som kunde förändra det faktum att där hon såg vackra blommor, där såg jagsorg och bitterhet. En och samma syn kunde få våraögon att tåras, men våra tårar hade olika smak. Vivandrade hem igen under tystnad. Jag var nöjd över att äntligen ha fått se hur sådana där jäkla påskliljoregentligen såg ut."
A small book but the prose packs a huge punch.
In Lucy we meet a nineteen year old girl who is from the Caribbean, moves to the US to be an au pair for a family who seems to have it all together.
From Lucy's perspective we get an idea of the inner workings of the family along with a deep sense of homesickness from Lucy.
As a Caribbean national, who is so used to people leaving the Caribbean to chase the American dream, this book gives a stark look into what it is like, especially from an aware narrator.
While it is clear that she misses home, there are clearly things she is trying to run away from, and especially her relationship with her mother is something this novel interestingly delves into.I found Lucy to be an extremely interesting character.
Lucy is a fairly short read, so if you are at all interested, I recommend picking this one up - it didn't take long to read it, but there is so much there that one could grab onto for further discussion/analysis, such as the references to other literature, the way the book comments of black transnationalism, etc.
I first read Kincaid's "Biography of a Dress" in a required creative nonfiction English class.
I instantly loved her style: her interweaving images that submerged and surfaced throughout the essay, the cadence of her language, the subtlety with which she addressed complex social issues, her nuanced character development, her sprawling sentences, her oscillation between past and present.
The style is not so stunning as in "Biography of a Dress", which perhaps is to be expected given the difference in length.
Her style retains much of what impressed me in her essay in these first two chapters, but it never coheres or resonates in quite the same way.
"How do you get to be the sort of victor who can claim to be the vanquished also?"This novel is deceptively plain. I imagine many readers have discounted it, uninterested in what lie beneath. Underestimate it at your own peril. Bare-bones language, narrative and plot house deeply radical musings on colonialism, womanhood, sexuality, whiteness and immigration. Nearly each and every sentence could have entire essays written on it. I am in awe of Kincaid's ability to write such a book. This is a novel I could revisit again and again, and take away something new with each read.
Pardon the overdone cliché, but Kincaid left me feeling more than a little blasé about Lucy.
Kincaid's own words can be used to describe how I feel about this novel, ultimately: "It was a song that was very popular at the time -- three girls, not older than I was, singing in harmony and in a very insincere and artificial way about love and so on.
It was very beautiful all the same, and it was beautiful because it was so insincere and artificial." (p.11)My rating would be 2 stars.
Wow. I can’t believe I never read Jamaica Kincaid before this. I know it’s not fair to compare her to Naipaul but I feel like I’ve finally found another author who can bring out broad themes of colonialism, growing up West Indian, immigrating etc. in a character’s personal development. Additionally, as one would expect from a female author, there are a lot more nuances and examinations of femininity and sexuality and female roles in society. Her language itself is impeccable along with the way she writes. I can’t wait to read more Kincaid!
My lasting & personal impression of this book: how difficult it must be to know someone who will show you a mirror of yourself, so clear and unforgiving, that you are not allowed to hold on to even the smallest illusions. How difficult, and how amazing.
But this new heat seemed blessed; it was a pleasant conversation piece; it was a contrast to the six months just past.""Where I came from, it was well known that some women and all men in general could not be trusted in certain areas.""[My parents'] was not a situation I hoped to take as an example, but I could see that, in marrying a man, my mother had thought very hard not so much about happiness as about her own peace of mind.""Before that, there was a girl from school I used to kiss, but we were best friends and were only using each other for practice.
All this because it is only the mother and daughter who really seem to be of genuine interest to Kincaid.Lucy is a fine book; I just liked Annie John better.You know what's kinda interesting, though: I learned one of the most important lessons of my life as a writer from Jamaica Kincaid.
A writer like Kincaid, who is obsessed with mother-daughter relationships, is at her best when she is writing about mother-daughter relationships.
A writer like that would founder if she attempted to write a novel featuring an orphan who never knew his parents.
She was that sort of person - someone who thought her presence made other people beside themselves with happiness."[in reference to a famous artist] "Of course his life could be found in the pages of a book; I had just begun to notice that the lives of men always are.""they were talking about the world, they were talking about themselves, and they seemed to take for granted that everything they said mattered.
It was why men like laws so much; it was why they had to invent such things - they need a guide.
The reason Lucy was so memorable is that it is mainly about sex and getting away from your parents.My mom's boss must have been able to see into my soul, because those are two subjects that are very personal and near to my heart.Lucy is a nineteen year old from Antigua who travels to America in order to be an au pair for a wealthy white family.
They are very nice people, but see everything through the lens of living a very privileged life, and don't really understand why Lucy isn't able to see things the same way.
At a party of upper-crust Manhattanites, who look like they stepped out of the pages of a fashion catalogue, 19-year-old Antigua-born au pair Lucy Josephine Potter finds to her disgust that "They had somehow all been to the islands -- by that, they meant the place where I was from -- and had fun there.
I decided not to like them just on that basis; I wished once again that I came from a place where no one wanted to go, a place that was filled with slag and unexpectedly erupting volcanoes, or where a visitor was turned into a pebble on setting foot there; somehow it made me ashamed to come from a place where the only thing to be said about it was 'I had fun when I was there'" (pp.
You get snippets of her past that fill in the blanks to a much larger story and offer a very real explanation for her personality.This is another one of those books that I believe requires discussion .
There’s not one clear message I received from ready Lucy as a whole, but there were a number of thought-provoking bits and pieces.The last paragraph of the book pulled it together for me.
There was so much in that one little piece (though don’t jump to the end because it means nothing without reading the rest of the book).
I don’t think I liked this book, but I did appreciate it.

