https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/566429.Foundation_s_Fear
I had read reader reviews before I started this book, so I was prepared for it to have problems.There are three major strands in the story.
But by then I had lost all interest in them, and I think they could be removed entirely from the book, with no loss of coherence or plot development.The third major storyline involves Chimpanzees.
I was actually looking forward to this storyline since I had read that the author introduced them as a tool for Hari's development of psycohostory.
Although we see a connection between the pan episodes and Hari's theory development, here again I found this storyline distracting and merely an interlude away from the main story.
(Either that or "There's nothing new under the sun.") This in itself didn't wholly bother me, but they talk for pages and pages about the evolution of chimpanzees and what it may have to do with Hari's psychohistory theories.Meanwhile, they become trapped in the chimpanzee bodies while doing the mind control and an evil man on the planet is trying to kill them.At this point, I stopped reading the book.
Looking at a summary of the book on Wikipedia reveals that I missed out on the Joan and Voltaire sims interacting with aliens who abandoned the physical world and took root in the Mesh (digital network) of Trantor.
All in all, not a book worth reading.The first part of the book starts out good: it's reminiscent of Asimov's original, the characters are believable, and I was just generally excited about reading more about Seldon.
Author rambles on and on and ON about what it's like to "live" inside the net.
It was like being dropped into a completely separate novel that didn't flow at all with the first part of the book.
The author did bring the two sets of characters together by the end of the book, but it wasn't interesting and by that point I really just wanted the book to end!
"is not canon" This book is written in a much different tone than that of Asimov's, and that takes a toll on the feel.
By taking the Empire and Robot legacies and projecting onto it, I think Benford creates a distraction from the Asimov universe, not a development or refinement.
Memes, logic, selves.) married with poorly described technology that seems weak advancement of our own (how many post-cyberpunk novels feature some sort of totally immersive Mesh/Web/Space where you can make things virtualize… just by thinking it!
Equations in 3D space-- now they totally make sense!
Dialogue… happens.
Benford was given a tough task: trying to flesh out Hari Seldon's conception of psychohistory.
Plus, Benford's "solutions" including the idea of meta-knowledge, to psychohistory were not very insightful.
And he didn't even set them up as insightful for Hari, which he could have done.Finally, Benford really doesn't have a feel for the characters.
I haven't read the Foundation books in a long time, but I could still feel the difference between Asimov's conception of Daneel and Hari and Benford's.
And Benford's subtle nods to later Foundation novels are ham-fisted and overdone.All in all, it was an okay book, mostly because it made me want to read Asimov again.
How can you write a tribute to one of the greatest works of science fiction by one of the greatest science fiction authors and start out by throwing his physics out the window and replacing them with your own? Don't bother reading this one.
So what have these two and their discussion to do with the world as it existed before Hari Sedon created the foundation, you might ask — and the actual answer is … probably nothing much, except that it gives Benford an opportunity to tell us many things about life in the world of the pre-Foundation empire as well as to suggest that some of the thoughts that came out of this debate were crucial to Seldon’s developing concept of psychohistory.Similarly, there is a another extensive side plot in which Seldon and his rather remarkable wife take a “vacation” as a means of getting away from would-be assassins after a few attempts have been made on his life while waiting for the Galactic Council to approve the Emperor’s nomination of Hari as the new First Minister.
La saga decae a un punto que no le hubiese deseado jamás ni a mi peor enemigo. Fundación no merecía esto. Y no por Benford, que escribe muy bien, simplemente no es Asimov. Nadie salvo su creador debería tocar una obra. Menos un clásico.
I've never ready any Greg Benford, so I didn't know what to expect. I found that Greg Benford does not write like Asimov. I also found that that doesn't matter. If you're a fan of Asimov's Foundation series, as I have been since I first read it in high school, you will enjoy this book. It tells the story of how Hari Seldon came to be First Minister of the Empire. There is a lot of interaction between Hari and Dors, which I enjoyed. Bear writes with a playfulness that works well with the story. A good read.
The original series was so much better. I don't know what I don't like about this one: lack of action? or is it the things that the author introduces into this series: like computers, the Mesh, simulations, the theory of psychohistory... meh. don't know if I should keep on with the next books in this trilogy.
Had to finish after more-less third of it, because it was so boring...Author is introducing new things that do not fit to existing universe.Writing style is chaotic (although ideas may be interesting) and filled with technical language, that feels not justified by the plot.
I'm a big fan of Asimov's original Foundation Trilogy but was not overly impressed by his later additions to the series like Foundation's Edge where he attempted to tie the Foundation stories in with his robot stories.So, knowing that this book took place prior to the setting up of the Foundations, that it featured robots and that it was written not by Asimov (for obvious reasons) but by Gregory Benford, who's books I had never read…..I was, however, pleasantly surprised.
Asimov wrote roughly according to the science of the time and did update the Foundation universe himself in later stories.
I was re-reading this book, as part of re-reading all of the Robot, Empire, and Foundation books in in-universe chronological order and this is the first time I felt like just stopping where I was.
The alternative was to just stop.The rest of the book is mostly ok, except where Benford feels the need to 'correct' something he feels Asimov did wrong (gravitic elevators, hyperspace travel, etc.) or to use Seldon as a mouthpiece for his political and philosophical views, but it's not nearly enough to rescue this book from being an incredibly pretentious entry in what is otherwise a mostly very practical, straightforward series of books.Ugh.
The original series seemed to be about humans and the societies they built with some help from a few robots.
This series takes all of the choices away and makes the robots everything.
From having Seldon being one of a set of genetically engineered people to see who would be able to provide what Daneel needed to Daneel having formed the entire empire and designed how Trantor was built out.
It is ridiculous and makes humans into some stupid sub-species that really can't function.
Now I will be working hard to remove any information from this series from my mind so I can just remember Asimov's work unchanged.
I really failed to get into this book. I understand that Benford wasn't trying to duplicate Asimov's style. It's just that as a work in this series it didn't grab me or add into the arc of the story. The entire aspect of the sims of Voltaire and Joan of Arc was not to my taste. The portrayal of Seldon and Daneel did not live up to the other books in the series even with a large gift of creative room for the author on the part of the reader.Maybe the other "extar books" will be better.
Terrible continuation of the Foundation series. What was the point of this book? I'm still wondering months later. There are so many boring side discussions that have no relevance that I found myself skimming towards the end. The plot never really develops, and although I liked the ending, it left me wondering why Hari didn't just make it happen 400 pages earlier. Thoroughly unenjoyable, even to a big Foundation fan. I hear that the next two (Chaos and Triumph) are good though.
The Seldon sections are pretty decent, but the entire Joan/Voltaire thing is unreadable drivel - my enjoyment of the book increased significantly around 75% in, after I just started skipping all the pieces about them, and I only wish I did this starting with page 1.
Benford leads the trilogy with a smart, philosophic close look at Hari Seldon and the robots that make crucial moves in the Foundation era.
amazingly true to the brand and to the original author. asimover than asimov.
There were so many good ideas in this book, but I couldn't get interested in the plot until I was nearly 3/4 of the way done...then i stayed up all night to finish it.
Me gusta la idea de un Daneel más manipulador y oscuro.
Me gusta la idea del fuego en la pradera y la política de Trantor sea quizás lo más interesante del libro.Pero los simulacros no tienen lugar alguno en esto.
Es que ni siquiera con esta idea tan ridícula se atreven a hacer algo interesante, un simulacro de Calvin o alguien intentando copiar a Seldon, nada.
Sólo se usan para que tengan la misma discusión por 3 libros.
Lo peor es que en éste ocupan la mitad de la novela.
Un ejemplo de esto sería el conjunto de capítulos de Voltaire y Juana de Arco, los cuales me parecen muy cansinos y me sacan de la lectura, además de que dan la sensación de pertenecer a una línea argumental metida con calzador.
Y ojo, que la idea no es mala, pero no me encaja en esta obra.También esperaba que el autor desarrollara nuevas tramas en vez de revisitar y expandir unas ya vistas en títulos anteriores de la saga, pero bueno, el enfoque fue el que fue.Resumiendo, El temor de la Fundación es un libro interesante, pero fallido.
Just having Foundation in the title can send chills down my spine in anticipation. Unfortunately, Benford seems constrained when writing in Asimov's universe. His strengths are when he moves away from the Trantor created universe. His weaknesses are trying to work with The Empire. Sometimes I enjoy Benford's hard science -- but in a Foundation novel? It just doesn't work, and isn't comfortable to read. Thank goodness the reviews for the next 2 prequels are much stronger -- its the only thing motivating me to continue this series...
Das Buch inspiriert.Und zieht Dich hinein.Es war noch nicht ganz Gehirnbrand:Ideen, die das eigene Gehirn in heillose Aufregung versetzen und die Synpasen zu eigenen Feuerwerken zwingen. Das führt wiederum zu eigener wunder-barer Phantasie.Danke.Ich freue mich auf den nächsten Ritt im nächsten Buch dieser Triologie.Und Gregory Benford hat durchaus den Geist Asimovs übernommen vorsichtig das bekannt möglich einzubauen, so wie es Asimov tat. Nur weil es in seinem Roman noch keine Wurmlöcher gab, heißt ja nicht, dass er sie nicht eingebaut hätte, würde er heute noch leben.
Disappointed- I feel that the editor failed to do their job of cutting uninteresting spurious sections of the authors manuscript. This rambled between the story and other stuff which I’m sure the author felt was relevant but really wasn’t. This book should have been half the length and dealt with Hari as a person and his development of psychohistory. I kept wondering when he was going to figure it out but by the time he did the book was over. Foundation deserved better.
For me, this book was to Asimov's Foundation what the J. J. Abrams reboots are to Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. And I found the Hari Seldon depicted here unrecognizable. (I feel bad because I am sure that this was a passion project for the three authors involved in this trilogy. I have enjoyed short fiction by all three of them. But Asimov's Foundation series is close to my heart and this just didn't work for m.e)
This a fun book to read if, like me, it's been long enough to forget the original great Foundation series, and the nostalgia that this inspires allows you to wallow in the Asimov universe. Set your expectations lower as this is not Asimov writing, and the meanderings and Deus Ex are part and parcel of escapism fiction.
I enjoyed all of Empire and Robot stories that Asimov wrote over many years. When I found Foundations Fear, I had high hopes but did not like it. For years, my memory of how bad this book caused me to not continue the series. I finally decided to give Foundation and Chaos a chance. I'm glad I did. If you've read the Asimov stories, skip this book and start with Foundation and Chaos.
More philosophical than the original.This addition adds a philosophical bent and raises more questions than it answers. Very thought provoking. Recommended reason for those who enjoyed the original series.
I'm a big fan of the original Asimov series, so I was a bit dubious in starting this one -- especially after reading all of the negative reviews here.But I felt like Benford did a fairly good job with Asimov's voice and I enjoyed the book a lot. I'm looking forward to the next two.
