https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653559.Sherlock_Holmes_and_the_Case_of_the_Hound_of_the_Baskervilles
The Illustrated Classics from Moby Books were my first introduction to a literary canon.I received them fairly young one Christmas and kept them through my entire childhood.Their stories and drawings will stick with me always.
A thrilling Sherlock adventure
A mystery about a supernatural hound that preys on the Baskerville family. A classic mystery, and a must-read for fans of Sherlock Holmes. Spooky and clever.
Each story of Sherlock Holmes is wonderful!
I especially liked this little book because of the illustrations. These short stories are so addicting but like any Sherlock Holmes story, it almost never makes any sense towards the end.
You can never go wrong with Sherlock Holmes!
Has some pretty great illustrations!
Sherlock Holmes is asked by Dr. Mortimer t help save Henry Baskerville from a family curse.
They travel to the Baskerville estate to solve the mystery that killed Henry's uncle.
The scene where Sherlock Holmes and Watson found a body and thought it was Henry Baskerville.
The author uses the setting of the dark moor to bring tension to the scene.
Mr. Stapleton was trying to murder family to inherit.
Sherlock Holmes and Watson is a tangible representation of good.
I really liked this book because I enjoy a good mystery.
Very interesting narrative. Crime never pays. recommended by my granddaughter.
I am a big fan of Sherlock Holmes, and this book sparked an interest in me.
This book is about a hound that is killing people in the graveyard next to the Baskervilles home in London, England.
They later figure out that it was Stapleton, a rival heir to the throne who wanted to kill Sir Henry and Sir Charles, who had planned the whole thing and was later found dead in the Mire.To me, this story is both natural and supernatural.
Before and After reading this book, my prediction followed through.
A hound that needs to be stopped from killing people.
In Sherlock Holmes and the Case of the Hound of the Baskervilles Sherlock Holmes is at it again.
Him and Dr. Watson are on a case about the Baskerville family curse.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson are trying to find the hound and trying to see if anybody owns it.
Can Holmes and Dr. Watson find the Hound before it kills off all the Baskerville's?This was a very good book.
It was Holmes who was so suspicious and Dr. Watson played a great role in this book.
Watson was to protect the last Baskerville and keep him safe while Holmes went to do some spying on the other neighbors.
After all the hardships, I can finally grab this book in my hand!Well, not in this edition actually, I read it as in translation version of this, but since I can't find the translation version to be reviewed, I'll put my review in this edition.The Hound of Baskervilles' case is one of another top story of Sherlock's series.
I also love some chapter which was being delivered as in form of letter sent by Watson to Sherlock, instead of usual naration made by Watson.
Well, I did have suspicion about him, but at the end I couldn't believe that he's the culprit, especially the reason behind it!God, I love this book :)
The story in itself is simply written and a quick, easy read.
The illustrations accompanying the writing - one page words, one page a picture - are nicely done and story-appropriate, although I could have done without the captions.
They either give the story away if you read it before the written page or are superfluous, essentially a doubling up of information which is absolutely unnecessary.Yes, I know, these 'Illustrated Classic Editions' are directed towards younger readers, however, they are not in need of double information either, really ...
I really liked this book cause this book is a really exciting book and the story is really well-planned.
Holmes actually tricks Watson and watches him investigate the Baskervilles and write reports to him.
Watson later gets really mad but Holmes complement him and Watson suddenly felt very happy and wasn’t mad anymore (cause Holmes rarely complements people).
I couldn’t believe that the murderer is actually the insect catcher and his sister is actually his wife!
But this is how it makes the story exciting!P.S. I always wonder if Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is a genius.
I wonder how it feels to write such great books like this.
I read this book for the first time a long time ago because I was interested in it after watching an episode of Sherlock that was based on it.
The book itself was really good, but there were some things about it I didn't quite understand.
Probably because I was stuck on what happened in the show, it messed up my memory on the book so I had to read it again.
I still have a difficult time with it, but I think the book was really interesting and I recommend it to anyone who has read any other of the Sherlock Holmes books.
I hate CBSE for removing it from class 12th syllabus, although I read it long ago but still I would have liked my friends reading this and finally understanding why I love Sherlock Holmes. leave it, so talking about this book, I'm so glad to own it. if you like mystery, this one is for you. everyone please read this, you can't die without having read this, that would be a shame.
Bravo! A good fast read! now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
It was a good mystery, (of course!) and it was filled with adventure and fun. The plot twists are amazing, and of course the characters are quite fun. It's a lovely read for anyone willing to just sit down and just read it.
Read this book with my son in about 5 days. We both enjoyed it. I think it was his first mystery. He was anxious to learn who-dun-it. The pictures were helpful in keeping him involved and included a summary of each page. I hope he will choose to read more of these stories.
I'll just be saying the same thing over N over, cause I love mystery.
niceeeee :)
A classic and it's easy to see why. Though not very complicated, the story held my interest and proved a satisfying read.
it is super cool...must read and if any1 even gives a summry it spoils the suspense...the book is that superb....its the best....
This is of course the classic Holmes. It was what started it all, as such it has a special place in the canon. The descriptions are wonderful while not being too much.
Not my favorite.
Delaney is actually reading this right now - she picked it up at a book swap. I wish I could still find these - I loved them!
What's better than a Sherlock Holmes mystery? Pretty much nothing.
This is one of the very few Sherlock Holmes tales I could not really get in to.
Amazing, read it in like an hour. It's great for children to get into the Sherlock world! :)
great
