https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994809.The_Bat
In Mary Roberts Rinehart's The Bat, Cornelia Van Gorder, a spinster who has longed for adventure, takes herself, her Irish maid Lizzie, and her neice Dale off to the country to escape the city's summer heat.
Cornelia's neice begins acting strangely, her maid Lizzie is nervous as a cat, and her butler Billy is inscrutable (as all Chinese men of the time are represented).
Dale brings home a new gardener who isn't what he seems and Cornelia decides to request that a detective be sent to help her get to the bottom of the nasty notes.
If you're looking for a good, clean murder mystery, try this one!Cleanliness: The words "d*mn" and "h*ll" are used a number of times throughout the book.
*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
A friend who knows that I am interested in mysteries and in books published between the world wars, loaned me an anthology of three Mary Roberts Rinehart novels, so you will be seeing the other two in a week or two.
Gender, class, and race issues were all present in this book in a major way.
Cornelia has to solve the mystery as well as deal with Lizzie's constant overblown emotions throughout the book clearly indicating which class each occupies and the values of each of those social classes.
But looking at this book primarily as a period piece makes the action in the novel all the more interesting.
Somewhat disappointing. It was an interesting curio from the point of view of the origin of the Batman character, but not what I'd call a good read. However, it was fun to encounter the bit where the villain shines a searchlight onto a house, with the silhouette of a bat on it. Definitely inspiration for Gotham's famous Caped Crusader.
PLACE= 3: I love a good mystery in a Country House, and Rinehart does create a fine atmosphere of money and menace in the 1920s.
I enjoyed this, but oh, there are two missed opportunities: 1) the aforementioned twist which is actually easy to miss here, as Rinehart just lets it pass and 2) the author couldn't get a handle on who is where and when during the last half of the book, most of which takes place in a Country House during a storm.
Perhaps I'm being a bit unfair: no one does a Country House Murder Mystery like Agatha Christie, but Rinehart does a fine, 3 star job.
Once I got home I couldn't help but get started on it and I finished it rather quickly.Now this book is actually a novelization of the stage play "The Bat" that Rinehart wrote along with Avery Hopwood.
I think that fact that this book came from a stage play is what made it a blast to read.
Throw in a bank theft, from Courtleigh Fleming's bank, that a cashier is being charged with and you have the makings of a great thriller.Fortunately, at least for her, the estate she rented was in the middle of The Bat's territory.
I read this book after reading Rinehart's earlier book The Circular Staircase.
The Circular Staircase was made into a play that was then written back into novel form by Rinehart as this book.
The story in this book was less developed than the one in The Circular Staircase.
This felt more like you were reading a play made into a book, which is in fact what it is.
The plot was compressed and the characters weren't as well developed as in Rinehart's earlier work.
That being said, it was still an enjoyable read.
A long series of comic tales about the redoubtable “Tish” (Letitia Carberry) appeared as serials in the Saturday Evening Post over a number of years and as a series of novels beginning with The Amazing Adventures of Letitia Carberry (1911).Rinehart served as a war correspondent during World War I and later described her experiences in several books, particularly Kings, Queens and Pawns (1915).
Rinehart gave up mystery and humorous fiction, and turned to straight novels for most of the next 15 years.
Rinehart did write some mystery and humorous fiction during these years.

I had a lot of interruptions and distractions while trying to finish this book. I think I may enjoy it more if I can read without distraction.
Comic-book creator Bob Kane said in his 1989 autobiography Batman and Me that the villain of the 1930 film "The Bat Whispers" was an inspiration for his character Batman.
Director Roland West remade his film with sound four years later in 1930 as "The Bat Whispers", also by United Artists, and starring Chester Morris and Una Merkel.
In the 1959 movie, this is done in an effective cut-to-the-chase move and the whole thing is really an effective, well-structured, well-paced period film that I recommend over the book.So, the 1926 version apparently is a better source for the Batman inspiration.
I HAD heard of his play "Getting Gertie's Garter." Hard to forget, isn't it?So Rinehart and Hopwood co-wrote the play and when she wrote a novelization in 1926, he was listed as co-author.
The FDIC wasn't even a gleam in Roosevelt's eye at the time and the collapse of a bank meant the depositors lost their money.
She was a woman ahead of her time.Rinehart created her "elderly spinster" character in 1908, when she was a young wife and mother and used it again and again with different names and locations.
THE CIRCULAR STAIRCASE, THE BAT, THE CONFESSION, and THE DOOR all feature a shrewd, wealthy, old maid.
THE BAT. (1926). Mary Roberts Rinehart. **. This was Rinehart’s second most popular book, and was adapted for the stage and twice for films. It was also, according to Wikipedia, the inspiration for Bob Kane’s “Batman” series – although there is no resemblence between his character and the character in the book. If you are like me, I usually turn a novel into a movie in my head while I am reading it. This novel became a cross between a Marx Brothers film and a Three Stoges farce. It had no relati
This was Rinehart’s second most popular book, and was adapted for the stage and twice for films.
I feel kind of sorry for mystery fans of yore having novels like this as a benchmark.
Rinehart injected her own form of comedy into the plot, but certainly didn’t inject any mystery.
She rented the house from Richard Fleming, the son of the owner of a bank that had just been robbed of $1MM.
As soon as Cornelia begins to settle in, ghostly things begin to happen around the house.
We don’t know who the Bat is, but he must represent clear and present danger.
Although there are broad comedic aspects that might have played well in the play this novel was based on, such as the maid whose every appearance ends in a shriek and a faint, but which don’t translate well to the novelization.
There’s also some passive bigotry towards the Japanese butler and the Irish maid which is a little hard to stomach.
And if you don’t roll your eyes the first time a character leaves a gun on a tabletop while turning his back on a suspect, you will by the third time.According to Wikipedia, this novel was ghostwritten by Steven Vincent Benet.
Wow, mystery novels were different in 1920.
For example, if you published a mystery novel then, and one of your characters was Japanese, you might mention that Japaneseness 50 or 60 times throughout the course of the book.
Also, you might create characters so stereotypical that most of the time you would use labels to refer to them: "the doctor," "the detective," and (G-d help us) "the spinster." And you might write unintentionally hilarious dialogue, like this: "I'm not hounding this girl," he said doggedly.There must be good mysteries from the early 1900s, right?
Rinehart is quickly becoming a new problematic fave. I recommend this book for its great female characters and because of its history in inspiring the creation of The Goddamn Batman. I can't do so without the caveat that its depiction of an Asian male character is racist as hell.
Another wonderful mystery from Mary Roberts Rinehart written in 1920, I got the book free from amazon, if you like the book check out the movie The Bat 1959 starring Vincent Price
Read aloud at Forgotten Classics podcast.
Enjoyed it even though the writing is old style and there are lots of adverbs. I liked Rinehart when I was young and can still enjoy her.
Loved this book. They made a movie out of it with Agnes Moorhead and Vincent Price. It was good but a different timeline.
It reads unlike any other novel I've ever read.The viewpoint is chaotic; not just a multiple point-of-view book, but one that veers from viewpoint to viewpoint in the same chapter, nearly in the same paragraph.
It is full of mistaken identities, characters withholding facts from one another - sometimes we know them at the time, sometimes we don't -- impostures, bizarre occurrences only later explained, an infallible (or almost so) master criminal.
A good filler novel for an idle evening, and certainly a unique reading experience.I have to say that I think the writing is bad, but bad in such a unique way that it's worth reading once.
It's certainly unlike any other book I've ever read.
1.5-2* Oh dear. I was interested in Rinehart as a golden age mystery writer publishing mainly during and between WWI and WWII. This is her first book (1908) and it shows. A little like Keystone Cops meet Miss Marple, if Miss Marple were duller, incompetent, and apt to make casual racist comments about her Japanese butler and his “yellow mask” of a face (though the protagonist clearly respects and trusts him, for the most part). Reading Rinehart’s The Yellow Room (written nearly 40 years later) shortly after this book, I was happy to see that Rinehart’s skills had vastly improved.
As I was reading this, I thought that it would be a great idea for a farcical play. Then I read on Wikipedia that this novel is based on a play of the same name! This was a fun, quick read. It would be 4 stars except that it is a product of its time, so culturally insensitive at best, blatantly racist at worst.
Considering how long ago this was written, the story was original, the writing clear and not overwrought, and the majority of the story did not feel dated . . . . aside from the offensively racist description, characterization, and references to the Japanese butler. Cannot recommend.
Slow-moving until nearly the end.
Muy entretenido. Narra la historia de un desfalco bancario, la acusación de un inocente y la solución al misterio de una casa acechada por fantasmas.
The BatI love this book, this is one you can't put down tell the end and you guess the one who did it.😳😳
Read The Circular Staircase instead. They are practically the same book, and this one is not as good.
EntertainingOld fashioned and nut everyone's cup of tea but I love these old stories. A very different way of life and a good mystery nonetheless. A good read
Fun mystery.
