https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6936382-anna-and-the-french-kiss
“I cheated on her every day. In my mind, I thought of you in ways I shouldn’t have, again and again. She was nothing compared to you. I’ve never felt this way about anybody before—” What's the saying? Once a cheater, always a cheater? Oh, the fucking hypocrisy.There were many things I wanted to do to Anna Oliphant throughout this book. Some of them involve a bottle of choloroform, a shovel, and an unmarked grave. Mostly, I just want to bring Anna in front of the US Congress as an example of how
Oh, the fucking hypocrisy.There were many things I wanted to do to Anna Oliphant throughout this book.
It's one of those words that's so fucking commonly used that you have to be a complete birdbrain not to know!Anna is terrified of anything foreign, although to me, France really isn't that foreign or exotic, but I didn't grow up in Atlanta.
Anna is just so good because you know, she feels really bad that Etienne likes her, so she does everything she can to make Mer not jealous.
But surely, it's ok for Etienne to cheat on Ellie with Anna if she looks like a slut, right?
CLAIR!!!!Can’t I just fill this review with his name instead of explaining how much I effing LOVED this book and trying to describe in vivid detail how beautiful and amazing and gorgeous and sexy and adorable and cute and sweet and perfect and totally smoking HAWT St. Clair is?Asdfghjkl <--- this is me being speechless.
I’m positively utterly, totally, absolutely completely, undeniably IN LOVE with this book.
It makes me wonder “why don’t my parents send me to France?!
Unfortunately—or fortunately—she starts having feelings toward the totally gorgeous, off-limits Etienne St. Clair (okay, I’ve learned to say his name without completely hyperventilating, that’s progress).
When the doctor finally saw me he thought that since it was a busy night and there were so many people in the ER that he would just sew up my cheek without having to wait for an anesthetic.
He sewed my cheek back together with no pain relief.
Anna and the French Kiss was more painful than that night in hospital.
*sigh* She's a supposed film buff but yet knows nothing of Paris.
At one point in the novel she is genuinely SURPRISED that Paris has cinemas.
How can she be so incredibly ignorant of the place where film was fucking invented and know literally nothing of French cinema BUT YET call herself a fan of film?
This book is adorable, I’m not gonna lie.
Wealthy white teenagers having first-world problems.
Seriously though, this book is cute, and unintentionally funny, and will make you feel well disposed towards the world.
No thanks..Watch my full review here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jM4zG...
Update after reading this book for the THIRD time:Etienne.
ETIENNE.
Stephanie Perkins is one of my favorite YA contemporary writers as she has this way of writing books (which really sound SO cheesy plot and title-wise) that leaves you in a puddle of happy tears and hormones after the last page.
This read is not only completely and utterly adorable, it is incredibly relatable and witty.
I love how Stephanie Perkins wrote each character and how all of the characters will tie together in her three books.
**5 BRILLIANT STARS**One lovely word: ÉtienneSweet sweet sweet.I might just have fallen in love.This story equals exactly: Friday night + rain outside + chick flick + Skittles + chocolate + popcorn + comfortable couch + lovely boyfriend/friends. HEAVEN. 10 Things You’ll Find :1- A main character that has personality2- A swoon-worthy love interest3- Some beautiful friendly relationships4- Secondary characters that are truly unforgettable5- A setting you won’t resist (it’s Paris, guys, PARIS!)6- A
Of course, it isn’t pretty but it’s not that dramatic or taking many many pages.Except for that cheating situation I was referring to above, it’s really the kind of read that will make you smile and smile and smile some more, but also feel concerned when necessary because, even though it’s light overall, there are some scenes here and there that are more serious and sad, but not unbearably sad.Another thing that I really appreciated was the fact that I actually learned new information about authors especially.
Even if the dick isn't all that great, she doesn't know the difference because she is dickmatized.If we take Anna out of the equation, this could be a decent book.
Demeaning one of the love interests is not only low, but it makes me think you were too afraid to write a real relationship that didn't revolve around cliches and tropes.It's rather humorous that every girl Anna dislikes is evil and every guy she dislikes is either dirty, or a dick.
Take Anna out of the picture, and I might have liked St. Clair if the author didn't use Josh as a mouthpiece for how awesome he is.David: A dick.
humour, a likeable protagonist and a completely swoon-worthy guy called Etienne St. Clair.
You could fall in love with the name alone, even without the fact that he's sweet, kind, honest and nothing at all like any of the English boys I grew up with.
b) It's not a 5 star novel.I do understand completely why people love it, but it was nothing new or unusual and didn't take me to new places emotionally or intellectually.
But if you want honest depictions of the teenage male, you can read some Melina Marchetta, which I would highly recommend that you do.
So, Anna is forced to go to boarding school in Paris (I know! Poor chica!) and she crushes on a guy who already has a girlfriend. They flirt and obsess over each other while he is still dating the other girl. To add icing to Anna’s miserable cake, she is then forced to get mad at her friend who does something despicable: her friend dates a boy that Anna thought liked her instead. Life is just not fair. I gave this book one star because:1) Anna is a whiny hypocrite who has very different ideas ab
So, Anna is forced to go to boarding school in Paris (I know!
Poor chica!) and she crushes on a guy who already has a girlfriend.
They flirt and obsess over each other while he is still dating the other girl.
I gave this book one star because:1)	Anna is a whiny hypocrite who has very different ideas about who she’s allowed to date/kiss and who everyone else is allowed to date/kiss.
It’s simple: she can kiss and flirt with anyone even if they have a girlfriend (or she has a boyfriend); no one else can do the same.
2) Also, the girl is in France and is a huge film fanatic.
I’m actually giddy after reading this book!
Jolly good book indeed!Anna and the French Kiss is an absolute hit.
In this book, Anna is shipped off to SOAP, School of America in Paris by her Nicholas Sparky-type author dad; and she’s absoltuely homesick, lost and insecure as she doesn’t speak a lick of French.
As the book progresses, Anna and St. Clair develop a lovey type friendship that they eventually must acknowledge, but not without some messy sitches along the way.
Anna is adorably awesome and flawed, the type of girl that you’d love to pinch her cheeks and run like hell.
What I like about Stephanie Perkins is that her books are fluffy, and they're okay with that: there's no heavy message attached to this as the author attempts to shove an after-school special down our throats.
I expect a little more.I expect what Stephanie Perkins gave us: a beautiful setting, atypical characters, smooth writing and a satisfying final payoff.
Perkins grabs hold of teenage waffling and pulls the covers off it, and she makes it romantic, yet finite.
I, an adult*, wasn't ashamed to be seen reading this book on the terrace.
It feels kind of pointless to do some detailed review when this is one of the most popular YA books aaaand I'm like the last person to get to it...
It's just a happy, feel-good read that still felt like it operated in reality.
I totally loved Anna's character and how she was so relatable, flawed, and hilarious at times.
And pretty sure being sent to a French boarding school is the ultimate dream!
I could seriously picture most of the places around her school in Paris.I loved St. Clair and then I didn't...
Everything I would have loved in a high school.
The plot line with Ellie just felt like a very weak, very convenient way to keep Étienne and Anna from getting together too fast.
After all, I have to like the other half of the couple if I’m going to be invested in a romance novel.But I could handle disliking Étienne if the rest of the book could make up for his jerkitude.
Every time Anna and Étienne are remotely romantic with each other in front of their group of friends, Meredith gets jealous and pouty.
But then when Étienne is asking for Anna when he’s drunk, Ellie gets jealous and hateful towards Anna.
I love Paris.
Very much.I read Lola and the Boy Next Door first - I was in Paris, found it in a second-hand bookshop for 2€ and didn't have anything else to read.I have to say that Anna and the French Kiss is a million times better.
Lola mostly annoyed me, but I loved the characters around her.
Anna, however, was great.
But I was so in love with this story, the characters and Paris, that it all made up for it.This is definitely my favourite book in the trilogy.Find more of my books on Instagram
Anna and the French Kiss: certified #1 cure for your woes. (Drake, that goes out to you.) “For the two of us, home isn't a place. It is a person. And we are finally home.” So I started off with this as soon as I was done with Colleen Hoover's Hopeless, if only due to sheer boredom + a lack of wifi + because I'd been putting it off for too many months now. Funny thing is I had tremendous expectations for the former and barely any for this one.But oh, look how the tables have turned.Lord knows wha
Funny thing is I had tremendous expectations for the former and barely any for this one.But oh, look how the tables have turned.Lord knows what took me so long to finally get to reading this because I was instantly hooked.
It took me straight to Paris and I never looked back.When I get desperately into the groove of a book, I literally (okay, fine, figuratively) transform into a hermit crab.I curl up so tight in the shell of my blanket in that special nook carved out in my chair, so tight that everything else melts away.
However, I have to make sure that I have everything I might need somewhere close by, because if I can't reach it while I'm in my shell, then I don't get it.This is exactly the kind of book that I would consider peeing in a cup for (not that I did that or anything, just sayin').
If you are looking for a feel-good chick-lit to read by your Christmas tree, Anna and the French Kiss is a book for you.
Of course she doesn't want to go - her life, her best friend, her potential boyfriend, her little brother and mom are in Atlanta.
Anna and the French Kiss will never make it to my shelf of favorites, but I will probably read Stephanie Perkins's next novel if it comes out around the same time next year and is equally cute and inoffensive.
'Oh heavens'... this book was hilarious!! I loved reading it (twice) and I would read it again simply because it is too cute for words!It reminded me of myself in high school, and it really felt natural, real.. I can't even tell you what an amazing pleasure reading this book was. And it's so, so funny, my face hurts from so much laughing ;))I loved the characters (all of them!), I loved the dialogue (I just could picture those people in front of me talking, and laughing, and teasing, and fightin
it felt so natural), I liked the relation between Anna and Étienne (and gosh, even reading his lines I could 'hear' his british accent) with all the ups and downs, I loved all the conversations between them (including email/phone), all the moments when they were alone...
I know that I said this before but it really felt real, like a real story about real teenagers with their problems and their falling in love..
The only problem I have with this book is the title (how can I go telling people that i love a book named 'Anna and..
[minor unmarked spoilers ahead]what i signed up for: a cute, sweet contemporary what i got instead: a whole load of girl-on-girl hate and slut shaming, plus an insufferable, ridiculously ignorant protagonist (how on earth do you think that ‘oui’ is spelt ‘wee’?). oh, and did i mention cheating? case exhibit 1: on amanda:  “a blonde with a beaky nose and a teeny tank top coos as soon as we get in line… she leans over her friend, a short girl with a severe ponytail, and positions herself for maxim
“a blonde with a beaky nose and a teeny tank top coos as soon as we get in line… she leans over her friend, a short girl with a severe ponytail, and positions herself for maximum cleavage exposure.” 
honestly fuck offfff anna
if i didn’t like ellie before, it’s nothing compared to how i feel now.
it’s honestly pathetic how obsessed anna is with him.
also, wanting to hurt someone, especially because they’re dating someone you like is  not okay.
etienne on cheating on his girlfriend: 
i’m sure there are way more examples in this book, but honestly i’m so done with this.
I'm not a fan of romance, but that didn't stop me from loving All the Bright Places, The Fault in Our Stars, or I'll Give You the Sun. The thing about those books is, they're really about death, more death, and family respectively.
By the mid point, you start thinking maybe a story purely about romance could work, I mean how couldn't you, when your heart is stopping with Anna's as she anxiously waits for Etienne to make a first move.
4.5 stars. This is one of those books that you finish with a big, satisfying, "Awwwwwwwwwwww!"
Note: Apologies that I have no accents on my Frenchie vowels... my laptop was having a mare. You get the gist.  "Girl Scouts didn’t teach me what to do with emotionally unstable boys."  Initial Final Page Thoughts.Urgh, fine. Whatever. I’ll admit it. I swooned… a little. Can we move on?!High Points.Anna. Etienne. Paris. Boarding school. Swoon. Clomping boots. Convenient breezes. Canadian flags. Shakespeare & Company (I have a book from there!) One of the sweetest scenes set in Pere Lachaise
Low Points.See bit about Heroine.See Boy/Girl Angst Scale.Also… how else do you pronounce ‘directions’?
English accents being your kryptonite aside, I really liked you and I would totally go to the cinema with you and talk about films with you and judge you when you ogled a vertically challenged boy when Clark frickin’ Gable is on the screen.And….OK.
I know, I know only Anna calls you Etienne but I don’t like calling people buy their second names because I just can’t pull it off.
Boom.Boy/Girl Angst Scale.10/10.
People who can’t resist the English accent.
It is ADORABLE.Although I absolutely loved the romance, my favourite part of the book was the setting.
After reading this book though, I NEED to visit Paris.
The way it was described, the imagery, everything was so good !This was a really nice read and a perfect way to end my Christmas Vacation.I will definitely be getting the companion novel, Lola and the Boy Newt Door.*** Update January 16th, 2013Yaaaaaaaay I love this book!
I'm really happy that I started the year with this book, it makes me happy.My favourite thing was still Paris..
I dont read enough books where the setting is so well done.
More of my reviews can be found at Flipping Through the Pages!EDIT: This review was originally published on Sep 1st 2011 and I have since discovered I do infact enjoy contemporary novels (funny that), although this was my FIRST EVER contemporary YA book and reading back, my review sounds a bit weird tbh.
Anna can't speak French, she doesn't want to leave her friends and family behind but once she arrives, she soon makes friends and meets Etienne St. Clair *swoons*.Reading about Anna was like reading about myself when I was 16 *what was I THINKING?* and I found I could really relate to her, particularly because of the way she would think and what she would go through with her friends and guys.
Ahhh so many feels and angst and agh.
If you know me, I'm here for all the drama and all the feels.I'll probably write a full review later, but a few things did annoy me or that I had some problems with - like whyyyy Anna was SO mean so much of the time.
Egh. I loved all the side characters though, and the whole Etienne thing was handled so realistically, though it was totally depressing at times.Overall, it was cute and I totally recommend it if you're looking for a contemporary with loads of frustrating feels.
Review also posted here (October 18th, 2015)There are times in which I ask myself: Did I read the book wrong? Everyone seems to love it, even the reviewers I trust or people with the same reading tastes as I rated this book highly. How come I hated it? Did I read another book entirely?As you may be guessing, this is one of those occasions.I was promised a cute fun read, but I got nothing of the sorts. Instead, I got one of the most immature and stupid books I’ve ever read in my life.Anna has th
I’m going to vomit that weird eggplant tapenade I had for dinner, and everyone wil hear, and no one will invite me to watch the mimes escape from their invisible boxes, or whatever it is people do here in their spare time.Seriously, after reading this book I feel like I could write one myself titled Creative Ways of Killing Stupid People and Why It’s Important to Do This Without Delay.
Español - EnglishAnna Oliphan es enviada a un internado en París en contra de su voluntad.
Conoce pocas cosas del país, no habla francés y le da mucho miedo.
Lo menos que espera es que hará amigos y que conocerá a Etienne St. Clair, quien es perfecto y le gusta, pero tiene novia.--Anna Oliphan is sent to a boarding school in Paris against her will.
She knows few things about the country, doesn't speak french and is very afraid.
The least she expects is that she will make friends and will meet Etienne St. Clair, who is perfect and likes him, but has a girlfriend.
the book i thought i would never review!!!whenever people comment on my one star reviews and are like, i know this book is trash but i love it anyway, my internal response is usually:but...this book is trash and i still love it.there's a lil bit of emotional cheating in this, which i literally always hate.
it's cheesy and it's all drama all the time and the main character should annoy me and it's lowkey that weird cliché of bad writing everywhere wherein friendships fall instantaneously into place.BUT LITERALLY NONE OF IT GETS ON MY NERVES.
this is my checklist for people who are allowed to flirt with me:-french-also british-wears boots-funny-devastatingly attractive (obviously)-named something amazing, like, oh, i don't know, 
just reread this beauty for a third (fourth?) time :)
