https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16884.The_Making_of_the_Atomic_Bomb
This book is so chock-full of compounding facts, so dense, that interpreting it takes devastating attention.
Rhodes introduces about 500 characters, but follows in essential detail the 50-70 scientists and military brass and politicians whose names are forever linked to the history of the atomic bomb.
Rhodes adroitly presents the physics, beginning in the late 19th century, that is fundamental to understanding the process that led scientists to discover and control spontaneous nuclear fission.
The theme of doom runs like a through-line in this story, which is not surprising, considering the end result of the making of the atomic bomb was the atomization of hundreds of thousands of Japanese civilians, and the pushing to the brink of the world entire.
He lets Tibbets and his boys talk about dropping Little Boy, then he quotes the Manhattan Project Study on the bombing ("Because the heat in the flash comes in such a short time, there is not time for any cooling to take place and the temperature of a person's skin can be raised 120 degrees Fahrenheit in the first millisecond at a distance of 2.3 miles).
“Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds” ― Oppenheimer's translation from Bhagavad-Gita in Richard Rhodes, Making of the Atomic Bomb“Now we are all sons of bitches.” ― Richard Bainbridge, quoted in Richard Rhodes, Making of the Atomic BombI use the world masterpiece with a certain reservation.
He explores the development of nuclear physics without losing the reader, he follows the development of the bomb and the enrichment of uranium and production of plutonium.
Bohr trying to convince politicians to take risks with peace, to convince war leaders to think beyond the dropping of a bomb.
Oh, and John Wayne.If you want to impress a geeky engineer, read The Making of the Atomic Bomb.
This book shows that the development of the atomic bomb was, while morally questionable, arguably just as amazing in its engineering and scientific prowess.Rhodes does not ignore any aspect of the process.
Rhodes makes the people involved seem human and manages to mostly avoid social commentary, merely presenting the facts as they were.This is truly an amazing book.
The book is very thorough and covers the initial discoveries in nuclear physics, the early experiments, the government's intervention, the massive Manhattan project and its parallels in 4 other world powers, the associated secrecy, diplomacy, sabotage and espionage, and finally culminates with death and destruction at Hiroshima/Nagasaki and the associated political and ethical dilemmas.I'll summarize the book to give an idea of what it's about and highlight some parts I found interesting.The story of the bomb begins circa 1938 against the backdrop of an imminent second world war with a series of rapid discoveries that showed that if you shoot a neutron into a Uranium 235 isotope atom, the atom rapidly becomes unstable, breaks up and gives off 1) a lot of energy and 2) an average of 2.5 more neutrons.
The grand, encyclopedic, epic story of the atomic bomb program. Starts from WWI and continues until after the end of WWII. Includes short biographies of all of the major figures of the program, as well as a firm outline of the political situation which surrounded them. Harrowing detail of when the bomb itself was dropped, and what the creators thought during the while ordeal. Brilliant blend of history and science.
Incredibly thorough.
I have to say this book tested my capacity for retaining so much information, but I somehow succeeded and learned a great deal, but I admit I will have to reread the part about discovery and creation of plutonium...
I see what the book Crystal Fire was inspired by, and the same warning I gave in that review still applies (even more so in this book).
Making of the Atomic Bomb, Pulitzer Prize winner in 1988, was a well-researched and comprehensive history exploring the making of the atomic bomb, beginning with World War I, the genesis of the Manhattan Project and continuing through the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, bringing an end to World War II.
Rhodes divides the book into three parts; the first section exploring the history of nuclear physics from the discovery of radioactivity at the end of the nineteenth century.
The second section concentrated on the actual making of the atomic bomb as well as the scope of the Manhattan Project featuring Oppenheimer's unique talent directing the lab at Los Alamos.
I was not, however, crazy about this as a textbook, at least for the class: Rhodes focuses a lot on the technical aspects of the bomb and only deals with the tremendous ethical issue it presents in the last one or two chapters, plus an epilogue.
Oh well.Bottom line: not recommended for pleasure reading, unless you really like physics, but not a horrible textbook.One of the themes of this book, and one of the things which came up repeatedly in my class, was the idea that over time the definition of 'military target' grew and grew and grew until now anyone - you, me, the kids in that elementary school across the street - is an acceptable military target.
It is a detailed and eloquent account—of the early years of almost incredible scientific productivity, of the machinations of committees that nearly killed the project before it started, and of the gargantuan industrial operation that was necessary to produce a few dozen kilograms of fissile material.But the most powerful aspect of this book—the one I suspect will stick with me long after I have forgotten the facts, figures, and chronologies—is Rhodes's thorough and balanced exploration of the moral ambiguities surrounding the use of the bomb.It is difficult for me—a child who grew up in a mostly peaceful world—to contemplate the social and political circumstances in which the dropping of the atomic bomb could be considered a conscionable act.
Each chapter ends with a compelling paragraph that stunned me; almost like the last scene in an old serial movie.
The writing is brilliant, compelling, and subject is fascinating, particularly to me who remembers the bombs and who would wake up early in the morning in the 1950' and watch the southern sky for the red flash as the bombs were tested in deserts south of Salt Lake City.The sequel, Black Sun: the making of the Hydrogen Bomb, is also good, but I found it much denser and harder to read, much like a complicated trial.
So let me break it down:First off, I would have never EVER read this entire book without it being assigned reading for a class.
Also, had it not been for explanations in class, especially concerning the physics material, I highly doubt I would have fully understood what was going on.
BUT I would like to acknowledge the detail, research, and precision this book holds.
But unless you LOVE WWII/nuclear history/strategy/discussions AND nuclear physics, this book is going to be absolutely painful.
But this would make a great book to use for a research paper or something.
A thick and dense book. Very well written and I learned so much more about the science of the bomb, WWII, the politics and the decision to use the bomb. Highly recommended.
It picks up the thread at the turn of the twentieth century and developments in the field of physics and chemistry that lead to the idea of releasing the power locked in the nucleus of an atom.
It also traces the politics of Europe throughout the early twentieth century such as the first world war and the spread on fascism and the race for the bomb once the second world war mobilized scientists and governments to develop these horrific weapons.
Definitely a first book to refer to when thinking about nuclear weapons, arms races and genies in bottles.
The book starts off in London on a dull September morning in 1933 with Leo Szilard contemplating the shape of things to come.
From this point on, the book is a history book.
It is a nuclear physics textbook.
It is a slow burning mystery.
It is quite a tough book to finish, courtesy its astonishing length and encyclopaedic array of characters.
“Most experiences in life can be comprehended by prior experiences,” Norris Bradbury comments, “but the atom bomb did not fit into any preconceptions possessed by anybody.”The same can be said about the book about the atomic bomb
The lead up is never ending.
Its every detail of 50 years of geopolitical developments in America, Europe and USSR, every discovery (and many failed theories) in applied and theoretical physics post 1900, by whom, when, and how other people felt about it, every detail of the entire lives of everyone involved (their interests in literature, their formative years, etc).
You have to have a lot of time on your hands and A LOT more interest than I did to get through this.
One is in awe of the genius of Enrico Fermi, who was both a brilliant theoretical AND a superb experimental physicist (and also a good husband, father and colleague, mostly free from the neuroses and hangups of everybody else).
Szilard was not only an exceptional theoretical physicist but a great inventor (he even had a joint patent with Einstein for a refrigeration process although it didn’t make them rich) and also was endowed with much practical intelligence and common sense.
Had the war ended without nukes, I think it is unlikely they would have been developed later.
Like the Manhattan Project reading this book should not be undertaken lightly.
(Indeed, if one were to read only one book on the development and first use of the atomic bomb, this should probably be it.) Still, despite its lengthy word count, its thorough research, and its generally excellent writing, this is neither the last word nor the only word on its subject.
He had hoped for an H.G. Wells inspired international coalition to peacefully control this new power, but in 1939 if the bomb was too be invented, best by the Americans or British rather than Hitler.The next section, building the bomb, is less fun.
Bohr predicted that you would need to turn all of America into a factory to build a bomb, and that is what the Manhattan project did, mobilizing thousands of scientists, $2 billion, and massive plants to do the hard work of separating fissile U-235 and Plutonium from natural uranium.
THE MAKING OF THE ATOMIC BOMB is Richard Rhodes’ internationally acclaimed tour de force of science writing.
I love non-fiction and I cannot think of another work of non-fiction that I consider better than THE MAKING OF THE ATOMIC BOMB.As the 19th Century came to a close, we had only a very dim understanding of the sub-molecular world.
THE MAKING OF THE ATOMIC BOMB tells the story of the discovery of the atom and the development of a theory describing the structure and behavior of atoms.
THE MAKING OF THE ATOMIC BOMB is a great book.
The remainder deals with the actual development.My previous understanding of the bomb history stemmed from a movie some 20 years ago.
He quickly contacts President Roosevelt and FDR assigns a General Groves to develop the bomb ASAP in order to end the war.The actual truth is almost unbelievable.In the late 1930’s physicists in Europe realize that the fission of uranium can be used to make a bomb.
Most of these scientists are Jews and they flee Hitler to the U.S. terrified that Germany will develop the bomb.
What he actually does is assign a bureaucrat in the Department of Standards to look into this thing.
Amazing book.
The first act is a fantastic set of tableaus about the physicists and progression of science necessary to discover the capabilities of the atom.
The second act is somewhat dry, regarding mostly the politicking necessary to have made the bomb happen, but there is some decent engineering spliced in here and there.
The third is about the war effort, the Trinity test, and the eventual dropping of the bomb.
The last chapter is horrifying and not something I'd describe as the feel-good read of the year, but it helps to drive home just how terrible these things are.I would strongly recommend this book to everyone.
There is so much about the development of the bomb that I certainly wasn't aware of and I would venture to say that most people aren't.
How close that the Nazi's were to developing their own nuclear device, and the fact that the Japanese were actively researching their own atomic bomb.
Also this book stops directly after the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the surrender of Japan, which seems a shame.
So much of interest happens in the next several years, including the development of thermonuclear bomb technology (which is conceptually covered in the book), USSR espionage contributing to their own bomb development and the first stages of the arms race.
It is a masterpiece where Mr. Rhodes regales us with his gift for presenting difficult and intricate concepts in a very logical, insightful, colorful, and above all entertaining fashion.Loosely speaking, the first part of the book covers the key steps that carved the foundations of atomic theory: we get to witness J.J. Thompson discovering the electron; Ernest Rutherford realizing the existence of the nucleus and postulating his “Solar System” model of the atom; Niels Bohr, with a little help from spectroscopy improving that model and carving his more realistic Shell and Orbital design; Chadwick stalking and finally uncovering the neutron; Henri Becquerel and the Curies discovering radioactivity; Heisenberg working his Uncertainty Principle, Schrodinger developing wave mechanics, Pauli his Exclusion Principle.
Much better than other books that try to join mysticism and science, Rhodes goes though, in prose, the basics of quantum mechanics and the people who made it.
He has also not shy away from using the scientists metaphors to describe the world of the very small (Rutherford's cannon ball is one of the best), nor does he shy away from explaining the concepts that make the bomb possible, like why natural uranium does not explode and why plutonium is much better than uranium.
Rhodes also provides a sense a drama the scientist and engineers in New Mexico start to build the bomb.
And yes, Rhodes dedicates many pages to discussions that do not feel very relevant in 2013, but were very much so when it was written in the mid-80s and the idea that Russia might nuke us was not very far removed.But all of these elements come together in incredible fashion when the book builds up to moments of great importance: the confirmation of the splitting of the atom; the first self-sustaining nuclear reactor in Chicago; the attack on Pearl Harbor; the Trinity test; the dropping of Little Boy over Hiroshima.
There is a reason that books are given the Pulitzer Prize. Rhodes' book about the discovery of the atom and the development of the atomic bomb is a tour de force. It stands as one of the best history books I have ever read. Thorough, wide ranging, and engrossing. I am amazed at the intelligence of scientists working without the benefit of computers. I am horrified by what we can inflict upon one another in war. This is my second time through this book and it is still very much a 5 star read.
Powerful book. I came to this book for the science angle more than for the political side of things, but found both fascinating. Even at 900 pages it felt short. Worth a read if you have any interest in science or history.
I really enjoyed this book. It was the bomb.
Possible the best scientific book for layman ever written.
