https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6611979-the-queen-s-necklace
An entertaining, witty and - as far as I can tell, not being an expert in the subject - accurate story about the infamous necklace affair that had a big influence in Marie Antoinette's life.
He maintains his fairly objective, academic style and tells about people's positive sides and faults, but he also treats his characters with a bit of sarcasm and a subtle sense of humour, so the story doesn't get boring or dry, either.I've never been very interested in the French revolution, but I love Szerb's novels and also wanted to know about the era to understand better Michael Kunze's new musical Marie Antoinette.
It’s fitting how I’ve been putting off writing this review of The Queen’s Necklace, Antal Szerb’s last book; for Szerb, likewise, seemed to have been putting off finishing it.
The Queen’s Necklace is Szerb’s valediction, how he wanted to go: not in bitterness but in erudite frivolity.
Pausing one last time, just before the close, Szerb makes the subtlest of allusions to creeping melancholy:This age was as beautiful as the most finely worked lace, as a piece of Sèvres porcelain with its timeless charm and fragile delicacy; as the noble oozings of the Tokai grape, full and rich with sweetness; as the autumn air in Hungary, when the reddening leaves are scented with the inexpressible sweetness of death.Not inexpressible, Antal.
Extraordinarily modern work of history, placing the Paris of 1785 in its economic and cultural context through the device of telling the story of a jewellery fraud. Brilliant.
The Queen's necklace is an early example of the True Crime genre told by a sophisticated Hungarian in the 1930's.
Although this all happened sometime ago barest plot outline below.The Archbishop of Strasbourg seeking to gain the favour of Marie Antoinette is fooled into assuring two jewellers that the queen wishes to purchase the worlds most expensive necklace.
Hilarity ensues and plays a part in bringing down the monarchy.Odd as the above is, the real entertainment is Szerb's breezy style, it feels like you are sitting in a Budapest café with a charming man given to wild and unlikely generalizations e.g. the archbishop is fooled because he is a Breton, Bretons are celts and all celts believe in the fantastic being one such example.
What would life be without a little ancient régime gossip?
All the episodes of her short and tragic life unfold before our eyes in this short and splendidly written book that reads like a novel: Marie Antoinette’s cloistered and privileged youth in Vienna, where she was brought up to be the consort of the future Bourbon king, the indecisive and naive Louis XVI; the heart-wrenching separation from her German-speaking family and her journey to France to wed the dauphin; her coming of age in the court of Versailles and her rise to fame and preeminence as a power-broker behind the throne; the gathering political storm at the gilded gates of Versailles and the humbling of the house of Bourbon.
Only a supremely confident and talented writer like Antal Szerb could have written such a book ten years after the publication of Stefan Zweig’s towering and masterful biography of Marie Antoinette.

Szerb shows himself to be a master prose stylist, detailing historical incident with an ease that makes them seem like they happened within the hour. His slight mocking, knowing tone, brilliantly captures the age and his conversational approach is all the more remarkable considering the times and circumstances he was writing in.Szerb deserves to be better know, and aided by such a translator as Len Rix, the English reader has never had a better time to discover him.
Splendid companion to "Tale of Two Cities"! Szerb opens the unique world of pre-Revolutionary France, its contradictions and the values and sentiments coursing through society. His description of the main protagonists of the great scandal that shaped public perceptions of the aristocracy and monarchy are unusual, enlightening, and highly entertaining. A history that reads like a novel. Brilliant, for anyone who enjoys history.
This novel/history (it can be read as either) is quite good - light, clever, engaging, and at once intelligent. Szerb deftly guides the reader through the tangled politics of Marie Antoinette's court with humor and wisdom.But this moment threw me out of the book, quite extremely -[On Laclos' Dangerous Liaisons:] "Valmont, who is clearly a forerunner of Richardson's Lovelace..."I'm afraid, Mr. Szerb, that you have your chronology tangled somewhere there.
Szerb Antal bölcsen és mérhetetlenül szellemesen meséli el a nyaklánc történetét, elemzi a körülményeket, megemlít magyar kapcsolódási pontokat, mindezt könnyeden és mégsem komolytalanul. Nagyon kellemes olvasmány.
Miután túltettem magam a csalódottságon, hogy nem egy újabb Szerb-féle rekeszizom-csiklandozó kalandregényt tartok a kezemben, egészen élveztem ezt a kis korabeli francia korrajzot. A mínusz pontok a csalódásnak és a néha terjengős, kevésbé szórakoztató fejezeteknek szólnak.
