https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102066.Rogue_Male
”I hold no brief for the pre-war spartan training of the english upper class--or middle class as it is now the fashion to call it, leaving the upper to the angels--since in the ordinary affairs of a conventional life it is not of the slightest value to anyone; but it is of use on the admittedly rare occasions when one needs a high degree of physical endurance.
They decide to drop him off a cliff to make the damage to his body look more natural, and of course they muff it.He escapes.With a bit of daring, luck, and a disguise he makes his way back to England only to find that he is still being pursued by foreign agents.
Consider the following examples:Some Ratings will come at you through their excellence and their abundance of stars and colours, showing their worth with so much conviction they are inescapable throughout the entire reading of the book.
There are several tricks these Ratings employ in order not to be found:One way for them is to hide away in a huge book, preferably of a technical, experimental nature to make access for the Reader into their habitat more difficult.
_______________________________Part II: In pursuit of the Rogue Male RatingThis book is marketed as "simply the best escape and pursuit story yet written", and if I hold it against that light, the outlines of a two-star Rating become clearly visible.
This is a very English thriller, if I may term it like that!The unnamed protagonist, the "Rogue Male" of the title, is on the run from the minions of a dictator of a European country (in 1939, it is obvious who this is).
Hemmed in from all sides, the rogue male goes literally to earth in Dorset, and it is here where the surprisingly low-key climax is played out.The thing I most liked about the novel is this part, where there is absolutely no action in the traditional sense: the protagonist is walled up in a burrow, choking in the fumes of his own excrement, while his nemesis patiently waits outside.
Rogue Male is a chase book that gains momentum as it goes along.
Luckily, I stopped reading Victoria Nelson's introduction when I sensed it might give up too much of the plot.
I went back to it after finishing the book and yes, it did, which makes one wonder why it's not an afterword instead of an introduction.
So don't read it first if you pick up the nyrb version of this book.Anyway, set back in time a bit, this novel pits an ever-polite Brit against an equally polite German.
They kill politely.
Also, it's a tough book for claustrophobes.
That, unlike most adventure fiction from its era, it is every bit as exciting in 2016 is testimony to Geoffrey Household’s storytelling skills aligned to a simple, enduring, tense and gruelling story.My research suggests that Geoffrey Household’s other books did not attain the dizzying heights of Rogue Male, however I am still inclined to read more of his work, so compelling was 'Rogue Male’.I also plan to watch the 1977 film adaptation with Peter O’Toole.As an interesting postscript, Robert Macfarlane wrote a book called 'Holloway' with Stanley Donwood and Dan Richards in which Macfarlane relates a trip he made with the late Roger Deakin to find the Holloway that plays such an important part in Rogue Male....
He is a swashbuckler, yes; but he is also a man of deep reflection.At one point, our narrator considers, after the facts, that there is a simple logic to the actions he took.
He realized later only the mistakes he made.---- ---- ---- ----There is a wonderful dialogue with his attorney, verbal and epistolary.---- ---- ---- ----I liked this, but it is as 'thriller' as I get.---- ---- ---- ----There is often an odd sequence to the books we read.
In Rogue Male, our protagonist considers that his time away gave him a better focus of his native land.
After hours of surveilling the property, he is caught with the dictator in his rifle sights, tortured (the torture is "off-page"), dropped over a cliff and presumed dead.
Or they steal the clothes from the river bank when the man jumps nude into the swimming hole (this happened all the time in the olden days).The introduction mentions that this genre is sometimes called "wilderness procedurals," which is clever.This narrator, though, has internal monologues and opinions which are decidedly unBuchanesque (Buchan's protagonists don't engage in a huge amount of self-reflection):She was a sturdy wench in corduroy shorts no longer than bum-bags, and with legs so red that the golden hairs showed as continuous fur.
It's a harrowing story of self-realisation as the hunter turns hunted and draws on previously untapped reserves of energy and invention as well as of patience and endurance, coming face to face with the true story behind his own motivations in the process.
This is a gripping book, but it's also gruelling - there's very little external action - what there is, is swift and brutal - lots and lots of skulking and burrowing and simply biding of time while mental processes tick over.
A gripping if unusual (and unusually demanding) thriller and a superb character study.
The novel then becomes an elaborate cat-and-mouse game as Our Man hides out in the countryside and tries to stay alive despite police attention, curious villagers, and one all-too-sharp secret agent on the other side.The novel is ostensibly the three-part diary of Our Man, and Household makes good use of that format, creating an immediately likable voice--assuming you're vulnerable to a kind of English gentleman sense of honor and sportsmanship, which I am--and also letting Our Man eventually talk himself through his own denials and equivocations.
This gives the novel a tight, claustrophobic psychological tension in addition to the very well-done wilderness-survival and fugitive-improvisation suspense tacks.
this plan was simple enough, the first step though, was to get some coffee to kick my brain into its thinking position.
i needed some ground coffee, coffee machine, cooker, water, one and a half teaspoonfuls of brown sugar and a cup, and i knew only too well, that i could get all those down in the kitchen.
from the stairs, i gently stepped onto a floor board.
too fast and you'll walk right into an, invisible in the darkness, door frame, or even worse, kick the vacuum that's positioned in the corner, under the telephone shelf.
i knew their habits well, but now, i had to think fast...
More books should be as compactly and neatly composed as this was. It's refreshing not to feel as if the author were dragging events on for the sake of gravity. The tone speaks for itself. Another accomplishment: I've already forgotten what small troubles I had with the plotting and protagonist because i was so satisfied by the ending.
The hunter becomes the hunted is the basis for this tightly written and concise thriller. Enjoyed the time period depicted and the setting of a lush rural England.
Rogue Male is a strange book, if for no other reason than we never discover the name of the hero.
(Of course, Household never tells us it is Germany and Hitler that was the hero's goal -- it's just that it could have been nowhere else and no one else.Our hero manages to escape, but he is pursued, both by the police for a murder he had to commit by throwing one of his pursuers on the third rail of a tube station, and by "Major Quive-Smith," who is in the pay of the Nazis.
Am very glad to have come across this novel, and I'll certainly be looking for more by Household.
Victoria Nelson, in her introduction, calls it a "wilderness procedural." Kafka, Robert Louis Stevenson, Defoe are mentioned.
The novels are quite different but both men escape from 'civilization' and live on the run, close to (or within, in this case) the land.
Of course, Coetzee's vision is bleaker...it's South Africa not England.David Kowalski should read this and review it.And you, dear Reader, should too.But if you get this edition, do NOT read Nelson's introduction before you read the novel.
Unless, of course, you want to know what will transpire...and what fun would that be??
Only it’s not actually a plot, it’s more of a solo mission that at first seems to have no real motive.Hitler is never mentioned by name and the attempted assassination takes place in an unnamed central European nation but it’s perfectly clear who the target is.
Instead of leading up gradually to the assassination, the attempt takes place on the very first page.
His story starts with his assassination attempt, although he will certainly reflect upon his actions leading up to that event.
I started this book thinking that I already knew the basic plot from watching the film.
I was bothered for a while in the first section with this man's motivation for his "sporting stalk" of a leader of a foreign country but this is eventually explained in the final section.Now that I have finished, I do vaguely recall seeing a film based on this (starring Walter Pigeon I think).
If I am remembering correctly, there were some pretty significant differences & the book is better.
I will have to look for the film so I can refresh my memory.
An entirely new character is written into the film, a romantic interest and hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold played by Joan Bennett, who steals the movie, lending a bit of screwball comedy sensibility that the mostly humorless novel lacks.
The protag's relationship with the cat in the book is far more interesting than the human "romance" in the film, though.
Both provide interesting alternative finales.This is a great book, and the movie suffers in comparison.
Huh, this looks sortof interesting. Thanks to Joseph M. - I stopped by your page and saw that you're reading it. Diggin' it so far?
And although the unnamed narrator can initially seem a classic, square-jawed, teflon thriller hero, he reveals himself across the course of the novel as much more psychologically complex and vulnerable than he first appears.
This is the core of the novel, and it’s quite compelling.
Household has a Defoe-like ability to draw out the philosophical implications of the survival-outside-society motif, and he brilliantly exploits the Stevensonian theme of the double in his treatment of his protagonist’s relationship with his main persecutor, the fetchingly pseudonymed Major Quive-Smith.
Perhaps that’s because it’s compensated for by the narrator’s much more satisfying relationships with his alter ego Quive-Smith and his trusty familiar Asmodeus.
At the last moment he fails, and the novel begins after several days of torture and interrogation, when the would-be assassin escapes into the countryside.
He is now in an impossible position for several reasons: the marks of torture make him easily identifiable, he knows he will be hunted to the ends of the Earth, anyone who helps him will be in danger, and even his own government will be against him since no democratic nation condones assassination.Household’s novel is a classic Guy Book and, in my experience, a unique read.
I love books where the hunted digs a hole in the ground or hillside and hides there with his supplies.
Such a going to ground is a particular fantasy of mine (and also one of the reasons I also liked JM Coetzee’s “Life and Times of Michael K.") and surely one of the reasons I enjoyed "Rogue Male." I don’t usually like “suspense novels.” When I’ve taken a shot at reading such masculine action/chase novels, I’ve rarely had any luck, always throwing them aside as mere testosterone-charging entertainment.
Still I enjoyed the hunt, the resolution, the outdoorsiness and of course the architectural feat.
Stopped around pg 75, nearly halfway through -- the opening pages were so amazing I thought I was in for a treat but once he makes it to London all air goes out of it.
The prose seemed like someone ran clear English into Google translate so it'd come out as obtuse British, which isn't a bad thing as long as the story propels the odd language along.
In tone and approach seemed modern although written in the '30s.
Disappointed in myself for quitting on it but I can only read a few paragraphs at a time at this point before I either zone out or start to skim.
The narrator doesn't always put things in a linear perspective, and if not read carefully, the story might seem a bit confusing; above all, the why of how our narrator finds himself with a rifle in his hands aiming at this dictator is not so clear.
As noted, once I started reading, things outside of me and this book just disappeared and I managed to finish this novel in one sitting.
This is one of those novels you have to read for yourself, but it's wholly satisfying as far as action, writing and especially getting into the psyche of the narrator as he fights to stay alive and out of the clutches of his enemies.
An unnamed Englishman is caught trying to assassinate the leader of an unnamed Eastern European government.
The man is a skilled hunter who has the persistence of an Energizer bunny and the survival skills of Robinson Crusoe.
There's also a psychological element to the book because the premise - that the attempted assassination was for the challenge rather than a political gain - is rather thin and the man needs to work that one out at the end even while the reader stubs his toe on it half way through.
The book lacks impetus because the details are scarce and the character is relatively fearless.
this is sort of an original thriller-type, after 39 steps.
there is something classical, pure, about this first-person narrative from the perspective of a would-be assassin.
there is nothing extra.
this has also the affect of hollowing out the character, which on the one hand makes him easy to slip into, on the other, hard to identify with, if you are not the likely reader.
it was published in 1939, as an entertainment, and this reader might have been expected to be middle class briton, not given to skepticism about his politics, distrust of foreigners etc.
propulsive pulp political piece.
supposedly the beginning of the modern suspense novel, this book is about an english big game hunter in a foreign country who gets a yen to see if it might be possible-- just possible, mind you, in a theoretical sense-- to assassinate the leader of that country as he relaxes at his country estate.
things get pretty hairy pretty fast and although this was written 70 years ago it is by no means for the faint of heart.
there's some stuff in here i doubt i will ever forget.p.s. there's a big blurb on the cover by john le carre, and that blurb is there for a reason.
An attempt made on a dictator of an unnamed country, but we are told, close to Poland.
Despite being involved in a chase to the death, breaking the law is still ‘not on’: I did the nine twisting miles into Bridport in eleven minutes and ten miles along the Dorchester road in ten minutes.
I hated that speed at the time, and I’m ashamed of it.
No driver has a right to average more than forty; if he wants to terrify his fellows there are always a few wars going on, and either side will be glad to let him indulge his pleasure and get some healthy exercise at the same time.
The story opens in an unnamed European country, probably Germany, because our hero and narrator (also unnamed although whose name he says is widely known), an upper-class British hunter, magnificently fit, has apparently followed a dictator he calls “The Great Man,” probably Hitler, to his house in the country to see, just for the fun of it, how close he could get to assassinating him but without actually doing it.
Rogue Male is a wonderful thriller that keeps you on your toes throughout. It reminded me of 39 steps, but is better in some of the area's of suspense in my opinion. It’s a cat and mouse thriller that is well written and has you completely involved in the chase and plot.
It's hard to accept anyone could live in the wild, hiding from all human contact, for weeks at a time in our era, but one does believe it with our hero in his time.And of course the reader does approve of his strict individualism and the morality to treat all the same.
He is the moral hero, very skilled even though his enemy is just as skilled.
A trope that has been repeated in comic books heroes, and their never-ending movie adaptations for years and years.
The best thing about this book, is that you can't help hearing it from our heroes voice.
