https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7739934-night-star
So. The Immortals, number five. Second-to-last in the series. Ever and Damen's story is almost over. Almost time for Tubby-by-bye. Who gives a flying fuck?Fuck's sake.
(ALLL OF THE TIME!)*Makes sarcastic surprised face* Who knew that Ever would doubt Damen again>?
I hate how she finally says yes I trust him and then one tiny thing, any bit of unknown information that he hasnt shared with her and she jumps ship.
(She sure makes her fair share.)This books just like the last 2 or 3 or 4 I honestly cant remember, it is all about Ever and Damen getting the cure.
I just wanted them to hurry up and find the cure so that they could finally have sex and move on from it.
This was a YA paranormal romance story which carried on from the previous book.Ever was an okay character in this, she started to get a bit reckless with her powers at times though.
This storyline about them not being able to touch has been done to death though, and it’s getting really old.
The love triangle was explored a bit more in this book, with Ever suddenly not being sure whether she should be with Damen or Jude, which was a little odd.The ending to this left us with some questions still.
I mean Haven doesn't even curse, she says "fug" instead of "fuck", Ever and Damon literally can not consummate their relationship and Ever is frustrated that her aunt, who took her in and gave her everything she could ever need, just doesn't get her!What I think made this book more irritating that the last ones is that Rowan wasn't there, very little Twin-action and Jude gets shafted.
I will admit I was tempted to give this book because (view spoiler)[that horrible Haven dies (hide spoiler)], but that is not enough.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I'm beginning to seriously hate these books.
How long is the author going to drag out this Ever can't touch Damon crap?
So once again, Ever sees something from her past that Damon kept from her...
This is just my opinion, but the "trust" she now has in Damon is total bull-S because when she floated in the darkness of the Shadowland, she saw everything he'd kept from her!
Add Haven on top of that and you have one hell of an annoying book!!
but I'll have to be seriously bored out of my mind to read the next book.
If you're not three sheets by now, you have a heartier constitution than I.I don't want to waste too much of my precious free time writing more about this book--I've wasted enough already reading it.
She seems to feel compelled to say everything at least three ways in just the course of one sentence.
I don't know if she's attempting dramatic gravity or just trying to drive the point home, but she ends up beating it into the ground and spitting on it for good measure.
When I first saw the cover, I thought, "Wow, is she finally going to get that stupid antidote?"[image error]Chuck Testa.
I'm ready for these to be over. I have been since shadowland. It's the same thing over and over and over and over and over and over and overrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr again. Thanful the next book is to be the last..... :(
This book was better than I expected although it had a few of the extremely insulting wrenches thrown in, I can honestly say it was ok.Now, to the review:Ever and Damen are together, as much as they can be.
Miles is my favorite character; he is the most realistic person and is truly a faithful friend.Sabine and Mr. Munoz seem to fade into the background, making rare appearances.
It was kind of a repeat with a different twist.With that being said, there is a new premise being started that will hopefully give way to a new story-line for the final book.
Now I understand what people meant by the absurdness of this pathetic Immortals series.
. .reading--*SNORE*Was I the only one who thought the awful secret that could break Ever and Damen apart was .
Like I said before, you're not even perfect yourself!
Get it through your head, too!Amazingly enough, the biggest complaint I have for this book wasn't Ever's tiny brain.It was Haven.She's a fucking DOG.
Just like Haven's.
And if I read how Ever feels "tingle and heat" when she's near Damen one more time .
Only one more book and you're FREE!!This will be me when I'm done with the series.
We start the book off with Ever and Damen training for the fight that they know is coming with Haven.
After Jude killed off Roman in book 4, Haven is on the rampage, completely blaming Ever for his death and vowing revenge on her and Jude.So Ever is dealing with the repercussions of Roman's death, trying to protect Jude, trying to deal with things at home as Sabine completely disbelieves Ever has psychic abilities after her near death experience, and also trying to find the one thing that will bring her and Damen together: the antidote to the antidote.
I'm very much looking forward to the 6th book, due out in June and I'm hoping for that happy ending.
Ever returns to school for her Senior year only to discover that Haven has used her new immortal powers to make herself the most popular girl in school.
Apparently in one of Ever’s lives, she was a slave and Damen bought her from an evil master, thus forcing her to leave her family and Jude (who was her slave boyfriend) behind.
Ever’s family and Jude (in that life) end up dying in a fire and Damen doesn’t tell Ever.
Anyway, lots of dithering and visits to Summerland ensue accompanied by many descriptions of drinking the red immortal elixir.
Anyway, not a lot is resolved by the end of the book (nothing new there).
Little did he know that Roman snuck in the night a light the place in flames.
Jude, who was also part of the salved family, decides to give it a go and try to win her back.
You are only going to hurt yourself over and over again.Finally, when Ever is going through the death experience all over again and ends up in Shadowland, she sees who she is really meant to be, and that her feelings for Damen were never mistaken.
End of Story.I just hope the last book (Everlasting) is better than Shadowland, Dark Flame, and obviously Night Star.
A beginning with a state of an almost calm atmosphere and then right in the middle there is the troubles and problems and everything gets fixed and we get to the end when everything is in a semi good way and then right before the book ends we see the opening for the new one (if it’s a series of course) “and I’m sure all of these things have some grammatical name that I don’t know of”Well, well, this book have proven me wrong, since it has two big problems right in the middle with a great space of supposed calm between them and right when I thought the book was over –to my outer rage- it wasn’t and it kept dragging on for a lot of pages which is a pure torture if you might ask me.I had to get through so many pages to get to some –almost- good parts and then again I had to cope with some more.
YOU FINALLY DID SOMTHING SMART FOR ONCE WITHOUT BEATING YOURSLEF UP FOR IT AND THINKING THAT YOU DIDN'T DO THE RIGHT THING!!!
but good job anyways!
And also you were able to actauly walk up to Jude and tell him that you wanted to aplogize for oh let me think...
(Although they don't call that in the book...well actauly I shouldn't of said that but anyways.) And have him forgive you and then become friends in the end.
Okay, Now for Miles.(This one's going to be short..) Miles Thank you for being the normal simi rashnal one that actauly thinks things though before going and doing it!
Ever is still the most annoying character in YAF, but I tell you what, I've hated Haven since the first book so this book....better than the last ones.Whenever Ever says she knows she's doing the right thing you know she has made the wrong decision and unfortunately, she says this a lot.
What bugs me most is that she always thinks that she knows better than the guy who has had 600 years of life experience.
She's so self-righteous it drives me insane.Although, I will give her this...she has changed a bit for the better in this book.
So after reading the book, I'm having a few conflicting thoughts.
but my major thought is: do we really have to have another book?
Because honestly, I think the series should've end about, oh 3 books ago.
Personally, I think that if Ever had been sent to the shadowland two to three books ago and had her epiphany than the I'd like her and the series A LOT MORE!
To me she just seems like a ignorant little girl who got turned into an immortal and has no idea what's she's doing.But that's just me.So, overall, I didn't enjoy this book.
(view spoiler)[ She is on this quest to get revenge and kill Ever because she supposedly betrayed her, killed her so-called boyfriend, and taken many things from her.
(hide spoiler)] Haven is the worst friend that anyone could ever have.
I didn't even really like her from the start with the way that she got jealous of her friend.
As the book went on I thought that she was a b*tch and how much a hated her for what she was doing to a former friend (view spoiler)[ could not believe that she acually kills people.
(hide spoiler)]The only decent character is the book seems to be Miles.
Miles is back—thank God, because he’s the most reasonable character on this series—and Damen knows they have some “unfinished business” to work on.
Talking about unfinished business, Ever finds out some stuff about Damen on this book that I was expecting to come out since the beginning.
I mean, there’s no way the guy is perfect all the time, right?Some things on this book seem odd to me, more than others, though.
Sabine, by the way, is left completely out of sign most part of the time, how come Ever escapes from her for so long?
I have never EVER read a series so ridiculously redundant in all my years of reading.
It's so disappointing when an author shows you she can write and develop a good story line (e.g. Evermore & Blue Moon, maybe even Shadowland) and characters and then puts on such a horrible display of mediocrity.
Maybe something is going on in her life and she's not into it anymore or it's for losers 12 year olds and she's trying to put out a message of celibacy, who knows?!
Too bad this author can't rewind time and actually write to the audience that wants to read this series.
He turned her immortal after a car accident killed her (her parents and sister also died, but Damen was able to bring Ever back because she hadn’t fully crossed over).
They’ve been in love for several lives, but she always died unexpectedly.
(There’s a reason for that, but that comes up in an early book.) They’ve overcome several obstacles to be/stay together, but in Night Star, they face possibly the toughest battle yet.I love this series.
She knows that she’s strong enough to overcome and survive everything and anything.Please don’t remind me that the next book is the last one.
I actually found myself liking this book so much better than the last one.
I’ve read some mixed reviews on here and I don’t feel that they are all right.
Mostly I’ve heard that there has not been even a tiny bit of resolution in the story line.
I think Ever has finally started acting like an adult.
She love him she’s not sure because he lies to her has been the story from the beginning.
I think if you loved the first book but were unsure of the last one check this one out anyway you may find that you love the series again.
All I can say is OH-MY-GAWD!! This book was so dramatic, i am sad to say that its almost ending. This was the most Enchanting book in the whole series. This story captures the true magic of TRUE LOVE <3
Die Einzigen, die mich nicht nerven und wo ich sagen kann, dass ich sie mag, sind Jude und Miles, aber leider kommen diese beiden nur am Rande vor.
- Nein - ich denke: yeah, jetzt habe ich es bald hinter mir und kann dann wieder etwas lesen, das mir wirklich gefällt.Also, dieses Buch hat mich wieder nicht überzeugt und mich zum Fan gemacht und ich denke auch nicht, dass es das letzte schaffen wird, aber mal sehen.Der Schreibstil von Noel war ok.
Nothing about the world possibly coming to an end or some anything of the sort; no, these two people just really want to "experience the passionate night they’ve been longing for" (see what I mean about awkward euphemisms?).In this particular novel, Roman has recently been killed, and Haven is ready to wreak havoc on Ever because she blames her for his death.
Luv ya, Damen!" Um, I think Jude may have thought there was some hope since you went over there on multiple occasions because you're sexually frustrated and loved all over him.However, admittedly, this series does keep bringing me back for more.
This book is a repeat of the last one.
It is the same f*&^ing plot with a different f*@#ing bad guy.
There are very few changes from the last 4 plots to this one.
The only character that seemed to change at all from the last two books was Haven.
This book is boring and too many times repeated from the second book to now.
Save your time and stop reading this series now.
If you are like me and feel like you have to finish the series before you can read anything else....It's painful.Awful awful awful...Half a star.
Toch knap hoe een auteur er voor kan zorgen dat je een personage echt tot op het bot kan gaan haten... menn wat is die Haven een irritant dom wicht!!!
Ever finally was smart and it was regarded as a miracle, incredible
Damen and Ever!
Still amazing, loverly little novels in the Immortals series!!
Also, Ever is having difficulties with Haven who still believes that Ever killed Roman on purpose.
Haven is ingesting a different sort of elixir that is making her appear drug dependent and dangerously withdrawn.
Ever requests the shirt with the spilled antidote, so she can be together with Damen; and at the end as all are squaring off, Ever is forced to kill Haven when she intends to kill Miles.
These are awesome little novels; I love the cute covers.
So this is my pre-review, which might end up as the entire review as well, if this book doesn't impress)I have 5 things to say:One: Okay, honestly, that whole "there's a secret about what Damen did in Ever's past that could tear the relationship apart" thing is getting ridiculous.
in Katniss/Gale in Hunger Games (as is one of the reasons, as Kat ends up with the wimp, why this series is on my Never Ever Ever Read Again List), and Jude is no exception in my hating of third wheels.
SHe's like Jude--a whiny-baby.Four: The last book was really the only book I've liked in this whole series.
