https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316834.Murder_at_the_Savoy
The writers of the forewords talk a lot about their love of the police procedural as a form, of Sjöwall & Wahlöö's impact on the writers who've followed them and their relevance today, of how well the books hold up forty years on and how much fun they are to read.
It's Beck's sadness that carries the Marxist opinions of Sjöwall & Wahlöö, and in this series that I have thoroughly enjoyed, I have finally found a moment I can also love.
As Viktor Palmgren, the victim, is famous (or infamous) at the highest levels of Swedish industry and politics, Martin Beck is dispatched from Stockholm to Malmo, where he gets reunited with Per Mansson, his friend and local chief crime investigator.In the absence of the main suspect, the two detectives start to interview the witnesses, in particular the guests of Palmgren's dinner party, building up the profile of the victim and hoping to identify the motive behind the crime.
A businessman is shot dead during a dinner at a swanky hotel. The murderer gets away and disappears into the night.Who could have killed the tycoon? The trophy wife? Her lover? A dodgy business associate (several candidates fit this bill)?Beck follows the case to a conclusion, with the doggedness we have seen before, ably assisted by a wonderful supporting cast of oddballs and curmudgeons. This book is set in the Sixties and it is a little dated in the detail - everyone smokes incessantly for instance - but it is a good read
The investigation (in Malmö this time) of the murder (a shooting in full restaurant) of a wealthy entrepreneur brings out a lot of the social conscience of Martin Beck (and his creators). This is very much Sweden of the times (60s/70s), but still, at a quite reasonable level and not really interfering with the story being told.
Whilst there's a lot to be said for the way the authors utilised the formula of a police procedural to make political statements, the real pleasure taken from the series is in seeing the journey the protagonists take both in solving the case and their personal lives, the very nature of this novel removes that aspect and in shifting focus further towards the social commentary made Murder at the Savoy the most dated read of the six so far.Part 1: RoseannaPart 2: The Man Who Went Up In SmokePart 3: The Man On The BalconyPart 4: The Laughing PolicemanPart 5: The Fire Engine That Disappeared
São ajudados por Kollberg, que contacta com as pessoas de interesse em Estocolmo, pelo cada vez mais impaciente e insuportável Gunvald Larsson e ainda pelo ambicioso e novato Benny Skacke, que foi transferido para a equipa de Per Mansson após o incidente em Estocolmo, numa missão ao lado de Kollberg, no livro anterior "The Fire Engine That Disappeared".Martin Beck encontra-se sob uma maior pressão que o normal, pois a investigação envolve a politica (temática por ele desprezada) podendo mesmo ter um impacto a nível internacional.
They were definitely beating a reader who had lost interest.The mystery involves who shot Viktor Palmgren, a powerful Swedish industrialist, while he was making an after-dinner speech in the restaurant of the luxurious Hotel Savoy.
That's really not the reaction that a reader of a murder mystery should have.One of the things that I have enjoyed so much in the previous books in the series has been the sly humor which the authors have slipped into the narrative from time to time, often to drive home a point.
This is one of the characteristics of the series as a whole -- the books may have been written decades ago, but the authors' observations remain appropriate in the present time.
And another hallmark of this series continues here: the crime, the investigation, the characters' lives and the social commentary all occur succinctly within a relatively short amount of space with no superfluous distractions.
Just because these books were written some time ago, they're not antiquated: they've still got a lot to offer readers who are either just entering the genre or those who've been in it a while and have only focused on current offerings.
Another thoroughly enjoyable, highly satisfying instalment in this fine series. Recommended.
In realtà la denuncia consiste nel dire che i ricchi fanno i soldi sulla pelle dei poveri e facendo traffici d’armi con l’Africa (così: più didascalico che propositivo).
Leggendo si trova una lunga serie di macchiette che stanno a sottolineare l’idiozia dei poliziotti svedesi (almeno del 50%) e non è un bel leggere.
Se il problema era così vasto, sarebbe stato il caso di fare un’interrogazione parlamentare e di alzare i parametri della selezione del personale.
(Sarà più bello fare il direttore di orchestra o il poliziotto semplice?
One thing about Beck investigation that he loves to involve all his team fairly that I think all characters get their own spotlight, even Broberg the suspect.
The story telling was structured well-- from the shooting scene to investigation to how Beck came into the scene and a lil help from Kollberg.
It was actually going around Sweden, back and forth with few witnesses helping out and I like that the authors actually gave this extra colours to these witnesses' character like they were all as important as Beck and the team.
What did you think of this book? For an instant, I thought of the utterly dark cynicism and originality of Joseph Conrad. But humor was tagging along, too.
When a wealthy industrialist is murdered during a speech at the Malmo Savoy, Martin Beck is placed in charge of the case as it has political implications. Beck and his team find a network of vice during their investigation. This is a nice Swedish police mystery.
ΒΑΘΜΟΛΟΓΙΑ: 2,5/5.
Alla kan kosta på sig en sån här rackare alltså de är inte skitskitbra men välskrivna och roliga tidsdokument (denna dock inte en av de bästa). S&W e så jävla vänster!
And I would argue that it’s precisely an underlying Marxist analysis of Swedish society that allows Sjöwall und Wahlöö to open up their perspective here, providing a foundation that grounds their criticism and lends it impetus beyond the range of a crime fiction plot.Which does not mean that the authors are neglecting that aspect of the novel – just like the previous installments in the series, Murder at the Savoy is an excellent police procedural, combining a compelling mystery with realistic descriptions of police work and plausible character portraits.
I know that Sjowall and Wahloo pioneered the Swedish procedural, and I know, as well, that pioneers often work within a framework that's much more limited than what we are used to.
The clash between classes is more apparently in this book than it was in the first Beck mystery I read, and to some extent, that helps propel the story along.The mystery, however, often gets obscured by the message.
That's certainly an important part of the procedural form, and part of the ground-breaking here was the invention of detectives who don't have action-filled days and danger-filled nights, certainly.
La más débil de las seis novelas que he leído hasta ahora, según mi opinión.
He podido lidiar con eso en las cinco primeras entregas.
En realidad, no había resultado una temática invasiva, sólo algún comentario acertado sobre alguna situación puntual, que permitía apreciar un punto de vista distinto dentro de la sociedad.
Sin embargo, en esta novela la percepción es diferente: considero que se pasaron de fanáticos.
Todo pareciera ser una crítica no disimulada contra el malvado capitalismo.
Tal vez no es la novela.
Quizás el problema sea yo, que he estado sobre expuesto, durante mucho tiempo ya, al discurso polarizado.
Book six. A high profile businessman, Viktor Palmgren, who is shot to death while addressing colleagues at a dinner in the Savoy Hotel in Malmö. It is unclear whether the non-descript killer's motive was political (anti-capitalism), commercial or criminal. Martin Beck is dispatched from Stockholm to run the investigation and works again with Per Mansson, with whom he has worked in previous novels. Ava Torell, former girlfriend of a murdered detective, makes an important contribution to the crime in her new role as a vice cop. The authors' Marxist beliefs are clearly demonstrated in this one.

I loved that the murder took place at a hotel I recently stayed at, and that I know most of the places mentioned in Malmo and Stockholm now after having vacationed those places recently (I actually bought my copy IN Stockholm).
However, overall I felt like the plot moved slowly and the end felt very anticlimactic, especially because my version had another 75 pages...
Character development felt pretty flat - despite it being billed a Martin Beck novel, he felt secondary and I don’t really feel as if I know his personality.
I liked the development of Månsson, though, and I kind of wish the story had been told from his point of view alone.
Hot summer in Sweden, and a not-so-pleasant rich guy is shot in a restaurant. The shooter escapes via an open window. For a long time, our cops are in the dark - but through methodical searching in southern Sweden, Denmark and Stockholm, with persistence and a bit of coincidence, they find the perpetrator. (Possibly a spoiler?) For whom the reader is heartily sorry by then. And the rich get away with everything - which is the loosely translated title of the German version.I've never been to Malmö. Crime aside, it sounds like a place worth visiting.
Very interesting case, this one. Somewhat boring in parts (police procedure), but at least MartinBeck finally gets laid. I was about to give up hope for him. I really enjoy these "older" crime novels.Everyone smokes, no cell phones, most of life simpler, etc. This is a great series.
Although the writing is crisp and evocative, this police procedural is a lot of non-action and following empty leads, until a chance discovery puts Martin Beck and his cohorts on the right track at the 11th hour. Entertaining but no surprises.
Brilliant! But sad that only 4 left to read. Never mind, there's always re-reading!
And all good murder mysteries are also books of philosophy- because nothing makes a writer more philosophical than thinking about death.
But in "Murder at the Savoy", Sjowall and Wahloo do something unusual: they sidestep almost all of the mystery- and focus almost entirely on the sociology and politics of 1970s Sweden, and the philosophical dilemmas presented by democratic socialism in decay.
That is what gives this book a memorable existential feel- it presents the victim, the murderer, and the police as all bound up together in a inequitable society none of them can escape, and where no simple solutions can be found for turning things around.
This is the sixth book in the Martin Beck series, and the murder in question is that of a businessman, Viktor Palmgren, who is addressing colleagues at a dinner in the Savoy Hotel, Malmö.
Two other detectives are also involved, both of whom will be well known to readers of the series: Lennart Kollberg and Gunvald Larsson.Without giving the game away, the enquiry points up the unscrupulous business methods of the murdered man who, it seems, no one will miss.
I have read an excellent review of this book which stated that this is the first of the Martin Beck series in which the authors’ Marxist viewpoint is overtly stated.
I think I know now what I love so much about the Martin Beck mystery series by Maj Sjowall and Per Wahlöö.
There is also a point of view that is heroically on the side of the common man, with all his failures and needs and intentions to do good.Martin Beck has to be one of the most unhurried detectives on the planet--then (1960s) or now (2010).
The killer was nearly begging to be caught, having had to live with his conscience for two weeks.
As bad as the crimes and the criminals can be, we would rather have Martin Beck investigating them on our behalf than anyone else.
Searching to add Murder At The Savoy to my Goodreads TBR list I noticed that it shares a title with a Sherlock Holmes story.
I've not read the Holmes though so don't know if the similarities end there or not.
This is the sixth in the Martin Beck series and I've actually read them all in order (so far!).
I think it is the least police-ey and most political story so, although I agree with Sjowall and Wahloo's sentiments - indeed much of their 'evils of big business' warning is being experienced in exactly the same way in the UK nearly fifty years later - I wasn't particularly satisfied with the book itself.
For me, Murder At The Savoy was the weakest of the series yet.
ogni volta che ne finisco uno mi viene da dire: "è anche meglio del precedente". Sarà vero o sarà solo smemoratezza? Comunque non ci sono molte serie che mi generino un simile pensiero. Ed è già un grande pregio. Peccato che i suoi auori ne abbiano scritti solo dieci.Su tutto una polizia svedese incapace, stupida ( e un po' fascista) riscattata solo dall'umanità e dalla perspicacia dei suoi investigatori.
