https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227696.Peter_Duck
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.
A note to all, it is later revealed (I can't remember which book but poss Pigeon Post or Winter Holiday) that this is a made up story told in the cold winter Holidays between Swallows and amazons and Swallowdale.
The reason for this is that actually the children are all the same age as in Swallowdale, which becomes apparent when later novels are all set at holiday intervals.
I can't actually remember the ending so no spoiler from me, I may re-read it some time.
Where in the first two books in the series the children create imaginary epic adventures out of ordinary vacations in England's Lake District, in this book they embark on a genuine epic adventure.
They're off in the great two-masted sailing ship with Captain Flint and old tar Peter Duck on a treasure hunt in the Caribbean (or the Caribbees, as they call it).
Peter Duck was imaginary in "Swallowdale", but is quite real, and quite the character, in this book.
I can understand why this series was a favorite of mine in late elementary school.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
Ransome certainly knows how to work his way through a story.
In some ways, I missed the delightful insights into childhoods of the 1930 in the first two books of the series, because this book is so focused on the plot of the treasure hunt, the pirates, the sea voyage, and the various meteorological happenings that keep things humming.
You barely have time to come up for air, and new characters shift the focus from the Original Four Kids, who are very special kids indeed.
But all that noted, the book is grand fun, the adventure credible and diverting, and the treasure perfect.
oh, hang on, isn't that what I put for Swallows and Amazons?This has, of course, the natural dialogue, real characters, and detailed scenery you would expect from Arthur Ransome; and there are maps and diagrams for those of us who are weak in geography or the construction and operation of sailing vessels.
Let it unfold, and you will suddenly and unexpectedly find your heart racing and your eyes reading faster and faster ...
this may be a 'just' a children's book, but there is real danger, and several people end up dead.So put aside Harry Potter and The Hunger Games - excellent books though they are - and step back in time to enjoy the race to a tropical island in search of buried treasure.
Totally unbelievable but leaves you wishing it were!Of course this was a fantasy made up by the Swallows and Amazons and the Amazons uncle, Captain Flint. They had taken a boat on the Broads and as it rained most of the time they made up this story to while away the time. This explains the presence of Peter Duck who was Titty 's imaginary companion in Swallowdale.It also explains how it is that Susan is suddenly able to produce edible meals, having never been able to do so before. You can do anything in a fantasy!
I love Arthur Ransome, and this book lives up to my hopes and expectations. This one is a cliff hanger. The Swallow and Amazon children go sailing in the ocean with Captain Flint, Peter Duck, an old sailor, and a boy--they get chased by pirates--real pirates in a search for buried treasure. It's a page-turner for sure. Lots of fun, excitement and danger.(Looking for a good book for a child? Start with Swallows and Amazons.)
My mum bought be the whole set of the "Swallows and Amazons" series as a child, and I also had them on audio tape. I much preferred listening to them than reading, because they made long car journeys pass quicker, and also the writing style of Arthur Ransome was, at times, hard going. It was an inspiring book! Although I found reading such long narratives as a child tedious, I've come to appreciate the entire world of childhood freedom created by Ransome.
"In many ways Peter Duck is the best of the series."— Guardian"This is the stuff of real imagination which might so easily happen . . . all the details are true to life, the ship is a real ship, with all its sails and rigging made familiar, and the voyage which those happy children make to southern seas and coral islands is the beautiful possibility of daring and freedom become living and credible."— Listener
Awesome. Diffrent, yet kept all the things I loved from "Swallows and Amazons", and "Swallowdale". Still had that slow paced excitement and made me long to go to sea
Jack and I loved this book. It is the third book in the Swallows and Amazons series - I liked it the best. Jack liked it too, but says book two is better.
Although the setting is completely different, the characters are the same.
There is John, brave, intelligent and honest; Susan, capable and sensible; Titty, imaginative and ready for adventure; Roger, curious and hungry; Nancy, the Terror of the High Seas; Peggy, dependable, yet timid; and Captain Flint (a.k.a. Uncle Jim), impulsive and caring.
The dangers the adventurers face may seem fantastical when set in list form, yet in the telling of it the reader is left wondering if much of Arthur Ransome’s story could possibly be true and not an invention of his imagination.
I didn't read this as a child, although I naturally assumed that I had - I read most of the series, some of them multiple times.I hadn't especially like Swallowdale but ploughed on, knowing that there were much better books later in the series.This is the third and it really is as good as Swallows and amazons.
Let's just say that at one point my heart was pounding and my stomach was sick with dread, until I remembered 'it's a children's books and must therefore, end happily ever after!'It's a bit meta because, as we know, the Swallows and Amazons are based on real (then) living people who went onto have proper adult lives.
Not my favorite in the series, but I enjoy the Walker and Blackett children's exploits ("Adventures abound!
Children prevail!") regardless of the particulars.
Oddly, this ostensibly authentic tale (which is really a story told by one of the kids AS IF the Swallows and Amazons had undertaken it) strikes me as less realistic than the typical S&A novel, which is built on the imaginings and elevated deeds of the children.
Still, I'm a huge fan of this series and love to follow Arthur Ransome wherever he leads."It was a grand day now, of bright sunshine, with a steady, cool wind.
There are indications this story is one actually made up by the S&A children which is revealed in later books (haven't read them yet). That might be plausible since this tale is pretty outlandish and notably different in tone from the first two. I'm assuming Titty is on her way to become a writer and perhaps she is to have written this. The story is a fun read, although probably a little too long and detailed, but the drama ramps up in the final chapters.
A splendid mix of real-and-not-so-real. In the other Swallows and Amazons books, Peter Duck is a make-believe character, so I read this as a story within the story. Ransome brings you an experience of the tropics unlike any I've read, with the lovely parts of traveling by sea and exploring deserted islands going hand-in-hand with the really uncomfortable bits.
Definitely more of a real adventure than the other books of the series so far, with real pirating peril which would translate well into a film. I'm still not sure if the whole book is a story within a story (a yarn spun together by Captain Flint and the children) or not... but either way it remains true to the spirit of the series and the personalities of the characters.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Perfect in just about every way -- exciting, fun, suspenseful, boats, pirates, treasure, monkeys, and parrots... AND Swallows and Amazons! I don't think I've enjoyed a book as much as this in a long time!
Third entry in the Swallows and Amazons series. For this international sailing adventure, the children have adult supervision, a larger ship and real bad guys. Much more unrealistic than the previous stories.
some of the charm of the earlier books was lost with the adults taking centre stage but still a fun adventure
An excellent tale of the high seas and of course the Amazons and Swallows play key roles in the story. Enjoyed it thoroughly and imagined myself onboard the "Wild Cat" too!
Not as believable as the other books I've read so far, but still fun!
This is my favorite in this series despite or because it's essentially self-fanfiction and doesn't actually follow real events.
One of his best !
S - LDPlaceholder
see review under other edition,
I just love these books! Sailing, sailing, sailing.. What's not to love.
Really enjoyed reading this one to my son - one of my favourites of the series
