https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204011.Postmodernism_or_The_Cultural_Logic_of_Late_Capitalism
greg got me to read this. finished it in a laundromat in w.phila and stared into the swirling machine for an hour afterward just trying to cope.
I agree with the reviewer who said: simply read the first essay ("Culture"; which is a slightly edited version of a famous paper published in 1984), and leave it at that.
There are some marvelous insights on the problem of postmodernism and the spectacularization of contemporary capitalism; but also plenty of jargon, meandering, and (not to judge) also lots of engagement with arcane theoretical issues that are way beyond my present ken.
The topic, however, is much, much better dealt with (imo) by Sadie Plant's The Most Radical Gesture -- whose book is, from sentence to sentence, utterly flawless.
Arguably the main problem with this book can be found in the subtitle.
The concept 'late capitalism,' as developed by Ernest Mandel, refers to the postwar global economy; that is, the compromise of state regulated capital and social democracy.
By the time Jameson wrote these essays, capitalism was already moving on to a later stage called 'neoliberalism.' At the heart of this book, then, is a shotgun wedding between vivid, up-to-date aesthetic practices and an increasingly outmoded economic concept.
A cautionary tale about the dangers of Marxism becoming a hypertrophied 'Theory.'*The thing about Jameson that can't be overstated is that he's a really, REALLY terrible writer.
I'll start by saying that Jameson knows his shit.
Throughout the book, self-awareness is a giant elephant in the room.
By not taking a stance on various postmodernists (Haacke, Gehry, Claude Simon, et al), Jameson starts to function as an apologist rather than as an observer of it.
So can anything valuable be ascertained from this book?
If you're a disciple of Marx or Freud and want to be eased into post-structuralist thought, then this might be a good starting point.
If so, and if you can deal with Jameson's stultifying prose, then best of luck.
(And I do mean small chunks; single chapters were a multi-day process for me.) And if your experience is anything like mine, you're going to be doing a lot of re-reading.With that being said, this book is an important one.
Jameson makes a compelling argument for the relationship between economics and culture and how it's at the root of the "anything goes" eclecticism that characterizes PoMo art and culture.
(Not to mention the perpetual sense of disconnectedness and confusion most people tend to experience.) At the end of the day, if you're involved in any of the previously mentioned fields you should familiarize yourself with this book.
Jameson's book is the gold standard against which I rank similar studies (Linda Hutcheon's A Poetics of Postmodernism, Jean-François Lyotard's The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge). Jameson's thought is complex, and this is reflected in his sentences and paragraphs, which are frequently difficult to read. However, if you have the time, it is worth rereading sentences and determining how this clause is related to that parenthetical statement--almost invariably, once you have worked out Jameson's meaning, you admire the way he has chosen to express his thought. A real mental exercise.
বহুদিন ধরে ছুটা নিবনধ পড়তে পড়তে, অনেক দিন পর একটা সমপূরন পরবনধের বই শেষ করা।চমৎকার বই। একজন সতযিকারের একাডেমিশিয়ান যা বোঝায়, জেমসন তাই! একটা পিওর করিটিক পান করার অভিজঞতা। ফরাসোঁয়া লিওতার এর হযাংওভার কাটছে। ভালো বযাপারটা। কযাপিটালিসট দরশনকে যেমন সংহত রূপ দিয়েছিলেন - জন মেনারড কিনস বা কমিউনিজমকে মারকস- এঙগেলস, পোষটমডারনিজমের কষেতরে আমরা জানি, এরকম কোন কুতুব তাতে নেই। বরং যাদের নাম উচচারিত হয়, ফরাসোঁয়া লিওতার, ফুকো, দেরীদা, বদরিয়াঁ এরা সবাই পোষটমডারন সময়ের একেক লকষনের বযাখযাকার মাতর। বাট, তার কোন স
এটার মধ্যে কেমন জানি একটা কলোনিয়াল হ্যাংওভার দেখতে পাই। আর, সাহিত্য, সমাজবিজ্ঞান ও শিল্পে যে বিভিন্ন “ইজম” এর প্রচার ও আস্ফালন, এই প্রচার ও ছাপ্পার আড়ালে একটা প্রশ্ন অনুচ্চারিত থেকে যায় – একটা “ইজম” একটা “নাম” একটা রচনার সাথে কি যোগ করে?
My favorite moment: Jameson pwns Paul De Man and most of deconstruction-post structuralism in one chapter, rendering it almost silly.
But there is still much to be learned from this entire school of thought if not in context, then as Jameson informs us over the course of this text, through the formal issues at play in the development of deconstruction as it relates to our current(relatively past) political circumstances.All of that said I still need to (re)read more Jameson to get a better handle on it.
I picked up this book because I've a module on postmodernist literature and I find postmodernism in itself fascinating.
What I didn't expect is an incredibly dense collection of essays that 1/4 bored me to tears, 3/4 gave me a migraine while trying to decipher the text even with my understanding of the other theories, concepts, etc.
referred here.
Even so, it can be said that Jameson's arguments and ideas are interesting and compelling (it certainly does give one a solid perspective to look at postmodernism!) but the amount of time, patience and the constant rereading made it less enjoyable for me.
*postmodernism, or the cultural logic of late capitalism* has scouted alain robbe-grillet’s *jealousy* and nathalie sarraute’s *the planetarium* which will be might next books because of the anticolonial thrust to rid myself of the subject.
there is a similar thing happening in modern works like *ulysses* and parts of *moby dick*, again to refer back to continuity.
postmodernism designates the most efficient technology commodity fetish.
but do i really like really want to be a marxist historian?
Good riddance.
essential for anyone who has an interest in late capitalism and why we are the way we are.I did find this hard going though.
It could, however, do with more jokes -- my favourite parts are when Jameson makes a humourous aside or irreverent comment.
I suppose it's part of the book's greatness that I wonder why people often write as if some portions (on theory, on cultural studies, on ideology etc) have not been written.
It's the book's merit I guess that it's hard to deal with all of its content comprehensively.
But the 'anti-theory' brigade needs to read this

Too long, too difficult--and too worthwhile to ignore. Even if one isn't interested in post-Marxist dialogues at the end of the 20th century--and I'm not, or only to a certain point which Jameson reaches on about page three--there's enough ideas for everyone and anyone in this book about what happened and is happening in American culture after WWII.
I'm not going to lie Jameson verbally owns my ass. Though I might not agree with his philosophy trying to argue with it is like trying to argue with The Architect in The Matrix. You just ain't gonna win. (Runs back to his vernacular based books as quick as he can.)
Recently reread this book for class and it is just as amazing as ever. Though a little hard to follow at times, Jameson accurately and almost flawlessly describes the post-modern human condition.
I'm gonna a rip Jameson a new asshole. Strikes me as one of them God paradoxa: Can one rip Jameson an asshole when, in fact, his is the biggest asshole one can find?
Essential Reading. Jameson's discourse is profound and necessary to navigate the postmodern cultural landscape - Read it!
a healthy dose of cognitive mapping for a dislocated and decentred era
4.5
Ugh. Jameson is influential for a reason -- he has some really important thoughts on 'postmodernism' and contemporary society -- but the interesting nuggets of these essays are buried within mounds of awful subclauses, of subclauses, within further subclauses, and relentless 'academese'...I don't mind if books of 'theory' are hard going, in fact this is often a necessity, but in this case this often appears entirely unnecessary (possibly intentionally so?).
Much of this book reads as if it was been written to a tight deadline, without Jameson giving himself time to read his work aloud to himself in order to edit and refine.
I only read the first three essays, because it's an enormous book that only gets more specific in it's analysis, but I got what I came for, which was an analysis of postmodernism as both a cultural episteme AND an investigation of what we mean when we call something "postmodern".
There is much the notion of the word-drunk in this volume, the idea that Jameson is thinking out loud and that the writing is a species of verbal stream of conscious wherein there is the assumption, an act of faith actually, that the longer the associative chain ,the more inclusive the argument the analysis becomes and that in this process there will come the connecting conceit that unifies what might have been mere intellectual drift into a bravura performance.
I can't shake the idea that Jameson is stalling here and is, honestly, out of his depth in his discussions that are not directly involved in parsing the creation and use of narrative forms as political tools in a problematic culture.
Ensayo que se centra esencialmente en el posmodernismo en su ámbito cultural. Tal como dice el título, expone objetos y expresiones culturales y explica la lógica detrás de ellas, haciendo el contraste con la modernidad. Si bien existe una crítica latente al posmodernismo durante todo el ensayo, no es su objeto principal. La forma que aborda el tema a través de análisis de obras arquitectónicas, plásticas y musicales, hace que sea lectura más pedagógica que otras del mismo estilo, como también una muestra de los sólidos conocimientos del autor.
Like a lot of academic books, this is really more of a series of articles united by a subject (postmodernism) than a single treatise--and it is better read that way. Unless you are a glutton for punishment, like me. I enjoyed and learned the most from his introduction, his chapter on architecture and his chapter on theory.That said, I see why many treat it as such an essential text.
A never-ending reading... Fredric Jameson's writing is the sort that should be re-read constantly to help us understand what's going on in society.
a reading and lukewarm critique of postmodernism by marxist under its slight influence. develops thematically by area of interest, rather than chronologically or schematically by author or text.

good luck; have fun
En su primer proyecto de referencia, la rehabilitación de su propia vivienda en Santa Mónica (1977-1978), Gehry «tomó una modesta casa en una esquina del solar y la envolvió con capas de chapas metálicas y enrejados por las que asoman estructuras de cristal.
Esta interacción entre el espacio de la vieja casa y el espacio intersticial creado por la envoltura genera un nuevo espacio, un espacio que «plantea una cuestión fundamental para reflexionar sobre el capitalismo estadounidense contemporáneo: la cuestión de la relación entre los logros científico-tecnológicos y la pobreza y el desperdicio».
