https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684844.Peig
The original Irish misery memoir, forever drilled into my memory. This book has scarred generations of Irish people, not just with its unrelenting miserable storyline, but with turgid prose and unbelievably boring events. It begins when, suddenly, nothing happened. It then continued to not happen for the rest of the book, broken occasionally with the odd death.I would also add that Peig herself comes across as quite unlikeable.Awful.
Enforced reading for anyone learning Irish in school. Two years worth of unintelligible text used as a method of torture by way of total boredom. It's typical that the only action in the most well known autobiography in Ireland is when the subject once falls into a ditch. To be approached with extreme caution.
The most boring book ever written.
This book was recommended to me by a tour guide on our tour of the Dingle Peninsula, Ireland.
It is the autobiography of a woman who used to live on the Dingle Peninsula before her marriage and then married a fisherman and moved to the The Great Blasket Island visible from the tip of the Dingle Peninsula.
This book describes a very difficult life both on Dingle and on the Blasket Island but there's a love of land and family that is easily understood after a visit to the Dingle Peninsula.
I don't think I would have appreciated this book without understanding the Irish Catholic faith and without having visited that area of Ireland.
Tá brón orm, Peig, ach ní bheidh mé ag léamh an leabhar seo.
Nuair a chuala mé faoi do leabhar, tá mé ag leamh.
An-leamh.
Is fuath le gach duine a fhios agam an leabhar seo.Agus tá mé an-uafásach ag Gaeilge.
Mar níl mé go maith ag Gaeilge.
Ceithre bliana déag i scoil, agus ní féidir liom labhairt Gaeilge.
Milleán roinnt daoine Peig agus a leabhar.
Níl a fhios agam, ach beidh mé insint duit, ní bheidh mé ag léamh an leabhar seo.
Slán go fóill agus an bhfuil cead agam dul go dtí an leithreas.
If you want to be transported to a tiny island in the middle of the Irish Sea where there is no priest, no teacher, no doctor - just 150 subsistence farmers and herders, a king, and a couple of incredible storytellers, this is the book for you! In language that will make you weep for its sheer beauty and inventiveness, Peig paints a stunning picture of a life of great tragedy and triumphant humor. Full of wisdom and endurance!
I, too, read this as a set text in Irish when at school. Fortunately, we had a gifted teacher who brought the text to life for us and gave us a fascinating insight into the trials, tribulations and joys of rural life in Ireland at that time. A visit later in life to the Dingle peninsula including a spell with an Irish-speaking family brought back memories of this book.
I read this for my leaving cert in school. But I should say more than likely I studied the notes the teacher gave us. I bought it in English a couple of years ago and read it properly. A very enjoyable read and a real eye opener as to how difficult life was in Peig Sayers time. Would definitely recommend it.
Although I understand this is a text used in Ireland to teach Irish, I found it fairly enjoyable.
Don't expect a modern expose style autobiography - it's more a set of short stories about Sayers' life and her neighbors' lives.
I found it most fascinating for the detailed first-hand look at what life was like for the poor people in the west of Ireland during her time.
She writes of the childhood of the first generation after the Famine through to a period of time where cars were becoming more common, which is a pretty unique perspective.
It really needs to be read in Irish, using this translation for reference if you need it, and then the distant voice of your Irish identity will come to you from nearly 150 years ago.
It is so poignant and emotionally touching to go back to 1877 and read of a little four year old girl who can't wait to get to school so that she can have her own book filled with coloured pictures.
I will leave the stories from that island for you to hear through the voice of the great story-teller.
It's a story of poverty, the kindness of neighbours and abandonment by death and emmigration.
This is a story of old times in Ireland. It reminds me of listening to my own mother and her sisters and brothers sharing stories of their youth. We, my cousins and I, would sit and listen quietly without interrupting. Their laughter and stories were not quite like Peig, but it was fun to hear the stories they told. I enjoyed this very much.
Manchmal mag sie sich hier etwas pathetisch ausdrücken, was aber wahrscheinlich in der lyrisch klingenden gälischen Sprache begründet liegt.Etwa zwei Drittel des Buches beschäftigt sich mit Peigs Kindheit und Jugend auf dem Festland, erst das letzte Drittel schildert ihr Leben auf Great Blasket Island.
Auch schreibt sie, dass sie die erste Stelle verließ, weil sie sich gesundheitlich nicht so auf der Höhe fühlte, ohne jedoch genaueres darüber zu sagen.
Als die Insel in den dreißiger Jahren von Irischlernern und Ethnologen für Forschungen entdeckt wird, sieht Peig sich mit ungeahnten Talenten gesegnet, sie kann wunderbar Geschichten erzählen und einigen aus der nachfolgenden Generation Irisch lehren.
I must get back to Dingle and be there on a day when the boats are able to go to the Great Blasket Island. I must get there! This is such an important book about a lost time through the eyes of one pretty amazing woman.
Per paints a picture that I enjoyed reading, especially the Irish adages.The lives on the Dingle Penisula and the Blasket Islands were determined also by the harsh landscape.
One reviewer of the area said, "The Dingle Peninsula is strung along a backbone formed by the Slieve Mish Mountains and terminates opposite the Blasket Islands.
The most westerly land in Europe is The Dingle Peninsula.
The scenic 8.6-mile Slea Head Drive feels more like 30 -- in a good way.' Pieg had to leave her family at the age of 14 and became a servant girl for the next 4 years.
Although I understand this is a text used in Ireland to teach Irish, I found it fairly enjoyable.
Don't expect a modern expose style autobiography - it's more a set of short stories about Sayers' life and her neighbors' lives.
I found it most fascinating for the detailed first-hand look at what life was like for the poor people in the west of Ireland during her time.
She writes of the childhood of the first generation after the Famine through to a period of time where cars were becoming more common, which is a pretty unique perspective.
Peig's reminiscenses of growing up in rural Ireland are incredibly lively. She is quite the storyteller and I loved all the Irish sayings. Having just returned from a trip to that part of Ireland, (I could see the Blaskets) it was delightful to read. However, i did learn that this is a book that all Irish kids are made to read and so, like Silas Marner and the Scarlet Letter, it is universally detested.
I'm so glad I read this, especially after visiting the Dingle peninsula. But I have to say it was a hard read. I've heard that most Irish schoolchildren have to read it and hate it; I can see that, although it's also an important part of their heritage that they should know about.
An wonderful story, an simple, honest woman from a lost culture. "I did my best to give an accurate account of the people I knew, so that we'd be remembered when we had moved on into eternity." Peig is not easily forgotten.
Very great firsthand view of what it was like to live on the Blasket Island. Peig Sayers and her comrades had a very hard life. I admire her will to live and how she pushed through even the toughest of times.
This was a fascinating story about a woman who is the sister of a maternal ancestor. Pieg is an amazing storyteller who had a very hard life in Ireland, especially in Dunquin and the Blasket Islands.
Of course I am enthusiastic about this book, she's an ancestor. So those family stories were true after all!
A wonderful book.
Bought the book in Ireland in 2005 - English version, not Gaelige version. I was told that all Irish schoolchildren must read this book in Gaelic to get leaving certificate.
It was interesting.
Sayers relates a passing culture by telling her stories. Her speech patterns are as engaging as her story.
Wonderful
This is not my cup of tea.
I bought this book during a trip to Ireland when I ran out of books to read in the evening. A jolly Irish bookseller recommended it because it's required reading in Irish schools.
Incredibly difficult life. Her brother-in-law left Ireland for the US and is an ancestor.
