https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294941.Cybernetics
One on hand, his ruminations on the potential of the machine to perform this or that task feel lost in a hastening genealogy of technological developments.On the other hand, Wiener was both philosopher and scientist.
Wiener was clearly an instrumentalist, and explicit in his theory of the human body is the idea that the workings of neurons, synapses, and brain waves could be translated to computing technologies for many applications, good or bad, which he discusses at length in other books like "The Human Use of Human Beings." It was prophetic of Wiener to predict that computing power would scarcely be limited, except by the efficiency of the vessel in which the computer operated, including considerations like energy conservation.The last and most pressing reason that the book is interesting is because Wiener, probably the highest authority in the world on the science of intelligence at the time the book was written, was clearly committed to a program of ethical research and development.
It is non-symmetrical feedback, as unfolding through time, that makes the system seem vital as opposed to mechanical, and it is this level of complexity that makes the behavior of animals and humans seem so radically different than the motions of planets or pendulums.The remainder of the work goes on to apply the cybernetic concept of feedback to a whole range of biological phenomena and computational questions in a way that demonstrates the power of the theory and the broadness of its application.
This is a disorganized book that mixes super-brief mathematical treatment of statistical mechanics, ergodic theory, control theory and stochastic processes with an explanation of the difference between digital and analog computers, and speculations about learning machines and the human nervous system.
The idea that there are some common control and feedback patterns between mechanisms, animals, the human mind and human society can be construed as contradicting Marxism-Leninism, which proclaims the primacy of matter over immaterial information; at around the same time, genetics was also persecuted, and the idea that the development of an organism follows from the information in its DNA was denounced as a bourgeois pseudoscience.
The book was interesting to read.
Cybernetics had everything combined into one book.
It covers the biological factors as well as the technological and the historical.
It gave me a new perspective on how technology is similar to the human body.
An example from the text: “The synapse is a coincidence-recorder, and the outgoing fibre is only stimulated if the number of incoming impulses… ” (29).
Overall the book was fascinating to learn about technology in a new perspective, but because this was for a class, I would not have chosen it to read on my free-time unless I wanted to fall asleep.
I was surprised to learn that Wiener actually cautioned against applying game theory and its models too generally. Also, I didn't realize that the math of a book this influential, with applications to a diverse range of subjects, would require such an advanced understanding of calculus. Suffice it to say, I was unable to appreciate the finer points of Wiener's mathematical scope. Nevertheless, this book will only get more influential with time, and the easy parts are still worth reading.
This is a good read if you want to try and trace how mid-twentieth century scientific thought developed. There are some interesting sections that can be read in a stand alone manner. However, a lot of the material is now very dated from a scientific perspective. There is a section of "Language, Information and Society" that is still very strong today regarding markets and games though.
Cybernetics:... is a foundational read. Much of my technology has involved 2nd order work and my patents rely on Wiener's work as a basis.Good stuff. Not for the light-hearted, though.
This is one of the two books I was obsessed with during my college years. Luckily it is freely available on archive.org
Weiner gives an ethical and comical account of mentalism and cybernetics. A materialist approach which acts as a warning yet for the date 1965 that it was published seems out of date in some areas. It is caught between philosophical investigations that meet scientific experiements being weighed with qualitative and quantative deductions, formatted by the materialist method of outling problems and then stating possible solutions. Cybernetics is a warning about computing being misused or transforming humanity for the worse, yet I find the reality of our present day is the complete opposite, with a technological optimism permeating our current paradigm.
Not as good as I was expecting. Has some good explanations of mathematical ideas with motivating examples that are absent in a textbook on signals and systems. Even if you can't follow the math (there are some long integral derivations), you can get the gist of what he's saying with some thought.Most of the book gives a mad-scientist kind of feel (talks of experiments on cats, lobotomies, psychotherapy...). He doesn't actually explain communication/information theory that well in an introductory sense in its modern form, but as always seeing how and why ideas were developed leads to deeper understanding.
Wow. If you are perhaps a science/engineering sort who takes to feedback & control theory, you find that you can apply it to anything! Some thinkers have already been there & done that, though, as evidenced by this book. This text has the trappings of an intellectual fashion gone out of style. ...but that's okay by me. I could see ways to modernize the content and some of the sentiment of the book, but in general the thrust remains inspiring. If cybernetics was really ever in vogue, I believe it must have been a more industrious and intrepid era.
I stumbled through this book the best I could as a non-mathematician, because a friend suggested I read it. There was also a movement afoot in the psychology world at the time called "Psycho-cybernetics," which borrowed heavily from Weiner's ideas. Perhaps the most significant aspect of Cybernetics to me was Weiner's exploration of human bodies as machines, coupled with the ethical considerations of tinkering with the mechanics.
This is a paradigm shift described with dozen applications and rigorous details. Despite the several equations, Wiener did a great job sharing the historical context and igniting discussions; you may have lots of fun reading his predictions about machines playing chess. As a result, you may never run out of entertainment because there are always new stuff to explore here. Just look around and you will find applications of these tools everywhere.
I wish I could read differential equations the way that I can read words. I appreciated the thoughtful and prescient discussions of technology and society, and thoroughly enjoyed following his reasoning through both predictions that turned out to be true and theories that turned out to totally wrong.
I picked this up after reading "The Information". I'm familiar with Shannon's work on information theory but had never read, and wasn't even aware of Norbert Wiener's contributions. Some nice ideas on feedback control but the vision hasn't gained traction somehow. In the end I think Claude Shannon wins in the Wiener/Shannon visionary cage match.
Excellent read, though tough at times with some dense math. Worth the struggle to get past it. I have learned that advanced math should not be an impediment to reading dense material. Just skip over it, and if it becomes critical to understand subsequent exposition, go back and review or learn something from Wikipedia, YouTube lectures or the like.
Norbert Weiner is one of the few authors that can intermingle Latin, German poetry, and differential equations so elegantly. He was one of the best minds of the twentieth century, and this book was his magnum opus that heralded in the modern age.
He pulls too many formulae out of his hat, so I had trouble following the technical parts and the biology is somewhat outdated, but it's a good read, if you skim over the gory details, but there are a lot of gory details.
Essential bookshelf
This book contains a Fourier transform.
Fundamental reading.
"Balls out" actually refers to a mechanical technique for controlling the valves of a steam engine, and not to anatomy. Who knew?I read this for Brian Bingham's Controls course. It was swell!
Everyone who thinks about the nature of consciousness, computing, or information needs to read this book.
