https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17660.The_Tommyknockers
I mean, The Tommyknockers is an awful book. That was the last one I wrote before I cleaned up my act. And I've thought about it a lot lately and said to myself, "There's really a good book in here, underneath all the sort of spurious energy that cocaine provides, and I ought to go back." The book is about 700 pages long, and I'm thinking, "There's probably a good 350-page novel in there."- Stephen King in a Rolling Stone interview.You got that right, Uncle Stevie.Bobbi Anderson is a writer livin
There’s just too many tangents that go in useless directions, and it really gets out of control when he starts telling all the stories happening in the nearby town of Haven.Detailing the takeover of the population of a small town via snapshots of the locals is something King does well in other books like Salem’s Lot, but he could never draw the line here between relevant character details and useless information.
If the end lets it down, they feel the whole book is a waste of time.
and an ending that made you go 'whuh?' - I never counted the time I spent watching those early episodes wasted.
But yes, a good ending would have been wonderful.Secondly, I read this at a time when I was thinking a lot about the mechanics and techniques of writing and story telling.
It's the first time I really remember marveling not only at a story, but at the writing on the small and medium scale, and truly appreciating what magic was being worked, and how.So - to the book.
Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾🎃
I don't agree with this and there are definitely worse King endings out there *cough*Under the dome*cough cough*.It is a bit long in the tooth but I don't think that can be helped.
It does suffer a bit in the middle whilst King builds the blocks for latter stages in the book, so I can see people switching off, but I didn't think it was that bad.Above all, this is a King fanboy book, the references to his other works (if you've read a lot of King) make this book worth reading.Another solid story from the King of Kings :)
I was a new Stephen King fan and after picking up the first book of his I ever read, I had to grab another and another and another.
I had never in my life felt so ripped off about an ending in a book.
There are FEW books (under five) written by Stephen King that leave me with this awful taste in my mouth, but when they do it’s just unbearable.
And as any King fan will tell you- even a bad Stephen King book is better than most others.
King connections (buckle in for a long ride!): Bobbi Anderson lived in Cleaves Mills (a town that has popped up in several Stephen King novels, most noticeably The Dead Zone) before moving to Haven.
Pg. 498 - King breaks the fourth wall and has a character hold this opinion: "Bobbi Anderson wrote good old western stories you could really sink your teeth into, not all full of make-believe monsters and a bunch of dirty words, like that fellow who lived up in Bangor wrote."Pg. 735 - When contemplating how to break into Bobbi's shed, he makes a mental reference to Jack Nicholson's performance in The Shining — particularly, the infamous "Here's Johnny!" scene.
Reading this book again after nearly 28 years has vividly reminded me of those early days when a 600 page book was such a huge part of my life, and the newest Stephen King hardcover was the BEST Christmas present ever!
And it’s super creepy!I was unaware until recently that this book had gotten such widely varying reviews and that so many people were disappointed by it.
He’s absolutely my favorite character in this book from his first page, which brings me to what I’ve said before but bears repeating: what King does best is his characters.
Usually, I tell people to read King's books in order, but if you plan on reading Under the Dome, you might want to leave The Tommyknockers for after you finish it.
This book is one of those King novels that feels bloated.
King doesn't even like this book.
(Huge reference to The Talisman here)Clown holding balloons is seen in a storm drain.All this further cements my claims that all of King's novels tie-in to the Dark Tower in some way.
In summation: The Tommyknockers is a big book.
It feels like a big book.
His novel It doesn't feel half as long as this book, and it's over 400-pages longer.
Bobbie Anderson finds an object buried in the woods that happens to be the tip of an alien craft.
After she tampers with it sufficiently, the whole town gradually begins changing into aliens.A guy I used to work with kept urging me to read this one.
He read half of it during a week long stint in the brig while in the navy, then rescued the book from destruction while he was throwing the ship's trash in the ocean a week later.
King novels don't usually affect me but I dreamed about this one twice while I was reading it.
Needful Things, Lisey's Story, or The Talisman would have been preferable, as those three novels have been on my mind a lot lately.
That final scene with Hilly and David served as the icing on the cake for me.
Additionally, I love intricate stories with a plethora of characters, and this is no exception...
There are so many other aspects of the novel that I could go on and on about, but I won't, for fear of spoiling the story to those that haven't read it yet.
And classic Stephen King!
I knew King was a Star Trek fan and this book definitely shows that; I literally read more Trek references in this book than in any other book he's written.
I will be honest, and this is just MO, but I'm floored at all the supposed "Constant Readers" negative reviews for this book.
Now I only have 8 more King books to read and that does include his Non-fiction.
Overall, a great classic Stephen King book...and it's chunky too!
To me, the larger a King book is, the better.

Late last night and the night before, Tommyknockers, Tommyknockers, knocking at the door. I want to go out, don't know if I can, 'cause I'm so afraid of the Tommyknocker man So that’s a little creepy. Ever heard that childhood poem? I had not. Nor have I read much of H.P. Lovecraft, the horror author who influenced King’s writing of The Tommyknockers. King has said that his idea for the novel was based from “The Colour Out of Space”, a short story by Lovecraft. Tommyknockers is not the only nov
Tommyknockers is not the only novel written by King, or many an author for that matter, that owe a debt to the man from the past.Strange things happen (a very Stephen King statement if there ever was one) after Bobbi Thompson starts digging up her backyard.
But King’s take on the theme is unique, never a copy.Like many of his books, subtly or not, King touches on the certain things affecting our world, whether it is war, or guns, or whatever.
I don’t know, but green is everywhere.The lowdown: Quite a number of fans have said that The Tommyknockers is among their least favorite King novels.
Late last night and the night before,  Tommyknockers, Tommyknockers, knocking at the door.  I want to go out, don't know if I can,  'Cause I'm so afraid of the Tommyknocker man. By The way, that jingle is really creepy if it was sung by a kidSomething is creeping up in Haven, the atmosphere has rapidly changed after Bobbi Anderson stumbles upon something in the woods… It will alter the normalcy of this small town in a very weird way.Before anything this book was another successful buddy read, s
stumbles upon something in the woods… It will alter the normalcy of this small town in a very weird way.Before anything this book was another successful buddy read, shout out to Liz, Ron & Paul  :) Cheers to another trip down the pages.Firstly, this book gets a really bad rep for some apparent reason but in my opinion, it is unjustified.
The book proved to me such an awesome buddy-read choice because of the small cameo of different characters, quotes or little bit of hints from other King books
Okay, so I may have read this when I was twelve, but I tell you, it fucked my shit up! It's really really long and has violence and intrigue--if you're twelve and you start it in December, you might not finish it until mid-January. The best part was that it was the first book that made reference to location that I had actually been. IT took place in Maine, people, what could be creepier??This is an underrated classic with possibly the best title of all time. Just say it. Tommyknockers. Awesome.
And when I mean drag....I just kept saying in my head as I read, "GET ON WITH IT ALREADY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!" But also, I felt like it was a little all over the place.
I consider myself to be one who at least has half a brain (Hell, I have a Master's degree, I would I hope I have a brain), and consider myself to be someone who pays close attention when reading...but at times, I felt lost and my mind wandered from the story.
However, I felt like this the whole time once I got into Book II.
One thing is for sure. I am never moving to a small town in Maine. Strange things happen. Picked this one up at Half Priced Books for $1. Working my way through King's older stuff. Fun ride. A word of advice, don't dig anything up in your backyard, leave it alone.
I'm an unabashed fan of this book.
In fact, I'd say it's one of the best books of his that I've ever read.
The red-haired girl who gives a ride to a certain main character hitching a long-distance was especially touching, and one I truly hope King returns to in another story someday.Before, during, and after reading this book, I was well-aware of this book's rocky reputation, and yet I read it without caring...and I was simply allured by it, right up through its final, haunting images.
Let's face it. Stephen King can't write science fiction.I'm not even sure why King even thought Tommyknockers needed to be written. It's bad SF and not as all equal to his horror writings. It doesn't dazzle and it doesn't shine. The best thing I can say for it is that it doesn't feature a rabid Saint Bernard.Update: I might have to change that first sentence. King's 11-23-63 proved that he can write effective science fiction, at least in the speculative history sub-genre. But I still dislike The Tommyknockers.
I see it this way: We have three main characters in here: Bobbi (and her dog Peter of course), an author of western novels who stumbles and thus starts everything happening in this book.
This is the way I see all those books by SK with a huge 'town part' in it like Needful Things or Under the Dome and it works for me, those books are upon my favourite ones by SK.Being not a fan of a lot of SKs endings I was afraid that I would dislike this one, too.
Determined to see what is in the earth, Bobbi starts digging and unknowingly bestows a curse upon the small town of Haven, maine.
Knocking at just over 700 pages, The Tommyknockers often meanders and looses focus, jumping and switching the narration like a drunk switches bars on Saturday night, or any night for that matter.
If approximately 50 or a 100 pages were rewritten or edited, the novel would improve dramatically in pacing and plot structure.There's some truly great stuff in The Tommyknockers; Gardener's scene at a poetry recitation combined with a cocktail party is truly great and displays the sheer raw power of King's writing.
But when I started reading the book, I thought everyone must have been off their Tommyknocker-rocker!
Here the book collapses in on itself like a dying star.
You've lost the reader in all the confusion that was the coke-infused middle section of the book.
King attempts to bring together everything here, but since he introduced so many different characters and random sub plots in the middle part of the book, it was like he was really grasping at straws trying to figure out how the hell to incorporate it all together.Final analysis.
I feel terrible for giving this book such a low rating but I genuinely feel like I suffered through a large portion of it. Some of it was SO good, and I flew through those portions. But then it would be another 100 pages of horrible pacing and information that I found so inconsequential I didn't even retain any of it. I read that King feels like this is his worst book, and he might be right. I guess it was time for me to finally discover a book of his I didn't absolutely love.
My friend's mother at the time was our personal expert consultant on all things Stephen King.
After that, I read some mediocre or even less flattering reviews in whatever rags I was reading back then - TIME, NEWSWEEK, THE BERGEN RECORD, shit like that.
Maybe because the worst of 80's King is still pretty damn good.
Maybe because I read it in the context of what we know about King at the time, including his BAC.
but I'm glad I finally read it.If you are anywhere near a King completist, don't skip this one.
Aun no entiendo como nadie habla de este libro de King si es genial, su contenido siempre te deja con ganas de seguir y el final deja satisfecho.Muchas conexiones con otros libros incluyendo IT.
Review to come!
This is a fascinating book on many levels. Written at the height of Kings various addictions (with cotton wool stuffed up his nose to stop him bleeding onto the typewriter, apparently) - he wouldnt publish again for another two years - its a look at what happens to a writer when they go out of control. Its almost a master-class, writing-wise, on what NOT to do, but its loveable and fascinating: a drunk wheeling around a bar telling great stories in a scary, about-to-fall-over way. A coke fiends
A coke fiend´s eyes as they come up from yet another line at four in the morning, finger-wagging, wanting to add some detail to some random aside they were telling you a moment ago which also incorporates a rule for understanding humanity.King was obviously a tree-killing, money-making machine at this point which is why no editor or well-read English grad posing in the office at at literary do´s dared to step in and cut his ranting, rambling, repetitive, crazed manuscript down to size.
That the publishers were happy to put this out in the state it was published in and coin it in just the same tells you everything you need to know about the industry: it´s about the money, baby!King has since called this "an awful book" and, like Cujo, probably can´t remember much about writing it.
Even Stephen King admitted that this book was a mess, and I have to agree.
The first time I read it, which was about 25 years ago, I thought the book was pretty good but didn't like the ending.
I thought maybe knowing beforehand how it was going to end, I might not be so disappointed.
Well, this time around I am wondering how in the hell I thought the first part of the book was good?
As a fan who has read every one of Kings books, I hereby proclaim that The Tommyknockers is now, officially, my least favorite book by Stephen King.
I guess I must be “growed” up enough now to appreciate it.***CONNECTIONS: Haven (Firestarter, It, Pet Sematary, Mrs Todd’s Shortcut, 11/22/63)DerryRebecca Poulson (IT) “found a fifty-dollar bill fluttering from her back-door welcome mat, two twenties in her bird-house, and a hundred plastered against an oak tree in her back yard.” This was some of the money from the Derry Farmer’s Trust, which blew open after an explosion following the final confrontation with IT.The Arrowhead Project (The Mist)Jack Sawyer (The Talisman, Black House)The Alhambra (Talisman, Black House)Arcadia Beach (Talisman, Black House)Cleaves Mills (The Dead Zone, IT) Bobbi started writing her first novel in a “scuzzy Cleaves Mills apartment.”Derry Home Hospital (Mrs Todd’s Shortcut, IT, Insomnia)Juniper Hill Asylum (IT, Insomnia)New England Paper Company – Burning Woods (Uncle Otto’s Truck)Tommyknockers (Desperation) “What’re tommyknockers?” David asked.“Troublemakers,” Johnny said.
I also thought it was genuinely very creepy at points, like the reveal of Gardener going into the shed and seeing the bodies plugged into the computers.
I know it’s probably not in good taste to celebrate King writing from a place of self destructive addiction, but you can feel it in every facet of the book, and I love it.
You genuinely get the feeling that he didn’t give a shit about a lot of things.
I also loved the palpable anxiety and paranoia that’s present from all sides, whether it’s fear of sickness, nuclear war, succumbing to addiction, or creative blocks.
