https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43313.Trail_of_Tears

This book was not written in a voice that delivers a dramatic or emotional punch so I felt it lacked a personal touch, a personal touch that would have affected the Cherokee side of me a little deeper.
As our nation ages and grows more humble and open, I am appreciative of truth that is revealed, of skeletons that are let out of the closet.
We need history with its facts.
We need to face the truth.
ehle goes to great lengths to render the transformations the cherokees undertook in their encounters with white civilization.
yes - as most reviews of this book note - they "took on white customs," but the ambiguity involved in doing so is given fantastic expression.
consider general john wool, who arrives to police the cherokee with a strong arm...
wool's story is emblematic of the book's remarkable ambiguity.
the stories are complicated and unsentimental, but also intimate and moving.as a 21st century reader, it's interesting to note the incredible bureaucratic posturing that went into the cherokee's catastrophic removal from georgia.
It relates the history and culture of the Cherokee nation including the atrocity of the Trail of Tears.It is far from my Hollywood misconceptionsThe story is sad and enlightening.
The land grabs surrounding the Southern Appalachian area are no different.On a negative note, the book does not read easily.
Nonetheless, the bland style is somewhat mitigated by the sad historical story.A must read if you visit this area or have interest in this period of US history.
Changed my understanding of this area and my hike through it.Can anyone recommend a similar book on Dollyworld or The World of Magnets?
My great, great grandfather volunteered to remove the Cherokees, so I bought this book to find out more about what he was commissioned to do.
The book is called “Trail of Tears” and since I was only interested in the part my ancestor played, I thought I would only have to read half the book.
Three quarters of the way through I realized the book’s subtitle is “The Rise and Fall of the Cherokee Nation” and that I would probably be reading the whole book.
I’ve never read historical non-fiction before because I thought it would be boring, but this was not.
Well, this is exactly how I learned it in school.
I am working my way through the book and don't find the writing particularly good.
It seems like a pastiche of well-researched facts, historical novel and personal opinions with blurred lines among them.
Not a particularly fun read.
But the subject matter is so compelling and the presentation of facts so incredibly inconsistent with my naive appreciation of New World occupation that the content of this book just pulled me along.Reading this book - or something pretty close to it - should be required to maintain citizenship.
I had mixed feelings about this book.
On the one hand, it's obvious that the author did his homework; it's very well researched.
On the other hand, I didn't find it to be a very readable book.
I often lost track of the main characters and felt this was largely because the author didn't do a great job transitioning from one subject to the next.
Also, I found his own intrepetations of what might have happened or what might have been going through one of the main actor's mind frequently unsubstantiated and confusing.
For anyone interested in this subject matter, there are other, much better, books.
At the very least, it should be taught better to America's youth in a more truthful and respectful way.But, the truth remains that this author's style was not easy to read.
At times it read like a non-fictional textbook.
At other times, it got really "artsy" and poetry-like.
Frankly, I think that it would have been a much better book if it was 100 or so pages shorter!I will continue to look for another story about the Cherokees, because this one was obviously not the right one for me.
Using actual written documents from that time, it depicts the Cherokee Nation as it was before the White man began to enforce his ideals and beliefs.
It's centered around one of the greatest Cherokees Major Ridge and his family as they grew, adopted the white man's ways, and then fought against Andrew Jackson in court to remain on their ancestral land.
Trail of Tears takes the history of a great people and examines what life was like and to what extremes they went to in order to fit in with the white man society growing around them.
More than the Trail of Tears this is a very well written history of a crucial span of almost 100 years of the Cherokee and other tribe of the southeast.
Sequoyah was honored for his creation of the Cherokee alphabet but was otherwise irrelevant to the history of his times, having little or no impact on the political and social developments of the tribe.
The Trail of Tears would have been much more benign (as a removal process, not as an overall event in the history of the people, had it not been taken over from the U.S. Army and contracted out to the main chief of the Cherokee!
History books were written very differently 30 years ago.
It’s barely a book about the Cherokee people.
It’s sources are the documents white people wrote about those Cherokee leaders.
At the end, though he clearly thought Andrew Jackson was an abhorrent human, he plays apologist for the government, arguing it was either removal or war and the Cherokee were warriors who owned slaves so we shouldn’t assume they wouldn’t have caused more problems if they stayed.
I am generously giving two stars because the details about the negotiations with the government before removal and the situation the Georgia government created was well done and very informative.
I had to do a summary of a pov on the trail of tears, and this book was among the armload of books I used for research.
Eventually it played a part in my final term paper re Andrew Jackson's presidency.This book is not biased.
Another example is that Jackson was correct in wanting the Cherokee to follow state laws and not their own.
What this book is about, is what occurred BEFORE the Trail of tears.
Historically it is very valuable because it covers all surrounding issues re the Cherokee.
Being that I am part Cherokee (something my dad never let us forget), I always knew about the Trail of Tears. This book really goes into deep detail about everything leading up to and during the Trail of Tears. Super informative and interesting.
My father gave this book to me years ago. I think I was just getting out of high school. A touch of his fathers history. I only remember bits and pieces of it. I liked it though its sad.
This is more of a review of the audio version on Recorded Book than the actual book itself, but authorized versions of the book represent the book itself. I listened to about half of the book as read by John McDonough. The subject is interesting, but the actual reading turned out to be a cure for insomnia. McDonough paused too long when reading the sentences and read the book in a very monotone manner---which is impressive in and of itself because I didn't know that it was possible to speak with a British accent that flat.
Even though many Americans did not agree with the Federal and State mandate, the Cherokees were basically forced to leave their nation to travel to Arkansas, famously known as the "Trail of Tears." Here was the thing that I had no idea about and that drove me INSANE--there was another popular Cherokee leader, John Ross, who basically usurped the Cherokee government and cancelled further elections.
He pressured a majority of the Cherokee people to remain in Georgia, even when it was obvious they would eventually be forced to leave.
This remains one of the most shameful episodes in the sad history of the expropriation of American Indian lands, and there is little to be said in defense of the settler and commercial interests that undermined all attempts to arrive at an accommodation with the tribe as whites pushed into their lands.There are, however, nuances that complicate the simplistic narrative of an implacable genocide against the noble savage, and Ehle's book commendably brings them out.
Started reading this as background history information for my next novel, the follow up to "Still With Eyes Closed".
It is perhaps the best history of the Cherokees I have ever read.
It took me a bit to follow since the author does not use quotes, it is written in 3rd God pov and he jumps.
I also learned that the Cherokees and Credks came up with football, much the same.
This is a great book thus far.On 12-19-2014 I finished.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know the facts about tye Cherokee tribe.
This 'Indian' did not square at all with the wild painted whooping savages I saw shot off their horse every time I went to the cinema.
Consequently I've been intrigued with the Cherokees ever since.John Ehle's book deals, in great detail with the removal of the Cherokees from Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama to Oklahoma in the 1830sAlthough I find the subject matter enthralling I found the narrative style hard to follow.
It was easy to lose track.On the whole it is more balanced than many books which detail the clash between Anglo-Americans and Native Americans, The Cherokees are not painted as angels and not all whites are demonised.

The best part of the book I think was the beginning describing the setting in which Major Ridge was raised and how that informed his decision to send his sons North for school and kinda altered the course of what happened between the Treaty and the Ross Party.
It's a very pro-Treaty book.
Giving a lot of insight into why the Treaty party did what they did and the reprocussions felt by the Ridges and Waties, etc.
Not much is given to Ross and his other leaders.
It certainly gave me more sympathy to Ridge and understanding why they decided what they did.
Good book
I thoroughly enjoyed (if that is an appropriate emotional description of what happens while reading such subject matter) this book. It was a very informative introduction to one of the most disgraceful policies ever implemented in the history of this country. This was a relatively short read, but I felt much better informed on both the political as well as the cultural thought processes that went into the horrific implementation of the so-called "Indian Removal" policy. It's certainly not the history we got in grade school, that's for sure.
Gave my copy to my brother before finishing it. Heartbreaking account of the suffering of relocation of the Cherokee people. I shelved for a while and thought I'd go back and finish. This book will make you realize the great injustices the government has the power to inflict and still does with the tacit approval of many Americans.
I don't remember if this was the actual book, but I did read a book about the Cherokee Trail of Tears back when I was in middle school. Just wanted to add it to my list. I remember the story being pretty sad.
It's hard to rate because it wS so sad but it captured the story well
This book was sometimes hard to read with a somewhat stilted style, but it gave a very good history of the Cherokee people including their beliefs and rituals and how they lived in the South prior to their removal.
They are driven from their religious and social state then, not because they cannot be civilized, but because a pseudo set of civilized beings, who are too strong for them, want their possessions!"The Cherokee had adopted many of the white ways through missionary work by different Christian factions and had in many ways been assimilated into society.
And was the American government to blame, yes (and evidently, so was John Ross, because of his greed he had his people take a more miserable route during removal).Who comes out the worst, though, are Georgia, and the individual land speculators, gold miners, and state militias.
Greedy for land and wealth at the expense of Cherokees’ property and even Cherokees’ lives.Also, John Ross comes off like a greedy, lying, conniving, self-interested leader.
Yet, he gained all the power, while the best leaders the Cherokee had were murdered by his Cherokee followers.It’s just quite sad.Human evil was mirrored on the American and Cherokee sides.
Complaints I have are that the content of a vast majority of this revolves around one family and extended friends and family for ALLOT of the book, it is not what I thought it would be, more about the cherokee people as a whole , while it does cover allot of them as a whole I think it spent way way too many pages of detailed information about individual persons and their personal lives.
Actually a better title would be "The life and times of Major Ridge and the cherokee nation" But overall I still enjoyed the book and would recommend to people interested in native american history
Certainly rounds out the story more than my history class did.What was so hard about this book was that if I didn't know the ending, I would have kept thinking that the Cherokee were about to fix their situation.
I won't go into the details for the sake of sparing an argument in comments, but clearly if you exaggerate something long enough everyone will believe you.All in all, you really come to learn the full cast of characters who were involved in this affair, and you won't walk away happy but at least you'll be informed.
The author uses first-person resources to detail the entire journey of the Cherokee nation, from their first treaties and official interactions with the U.S. in 1802, to their eventual and tragic removal in 1838-39.
There are always two sides, but the leadership of the Cherokee nation bears much blame in exactly how the removals were carried out.While there is no excuse for the fact that the Cherokee's were forced to give up their tribal lands, this book helped me understand that many, both white and Indian, were working hard, and risked their lives, to make the best of a tragic situation.
