https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15797975-for-women-only
I realized it is harder than I thought to explain why a guy would be reading this book.
However, the things that are discussed in this book will hit home with most men.
I like her emphasis on how men experience sensual thoughts on a regular basis but that they have a choice on whether to continue to dwell on them or not.
I need her to be my number one source of encouragement to become the man God created me to be." Very true!
Thank God for supportive and caring wives...men need them!
This book needs to do a better job of advertising its real nature online.Another reason I really didn't like this book was that it felt like it was an updated version of the 1959 "Good Housewife Guide." So much of the advice felt antiquated or bias.
Am I supposed to ignore the fact that most of the men I've dated have made little to no effort to look good for me?I'm also supposed to respect him all the time.
It spent 30 pages on how men need respect and what women are supposed to do to give it to them.
Feldhahn's book is somewhat helped by a collection of survey results, which tell us exactly the same things that Harley's book does.
It's a little strange that Dr. Harley, a marriage counselor, is a better writer than Ms. Feldhahn.
But then it should be obvious that a marriage counselor would write a better book on relationships than the author of The Veritas Conflict (which is apparently about the evils of humanism and a college education).
Feldhahn does, however, like to blame that sex drive on the evils of American society, which is somewhat counterproductive considering that humans create society, not the other way around.
Well-intentioned, but a little obvious, I would re-title this work "Traditional Gender Roles for Dummies." Many of the "surprising" revelations might be of real use to women who have little experience talking on a deeply relational level to men, and who want to affirm their men in traditional ways.
I found that many of the things that were generalized about men were actually true of me, and many things that were supposedly unknown were just re-phrasings of pretty well established gender identities.
This book is only useful in the sense that it clearly articulates societal assumptions about gender.
Later on, she suggests that working out and looking pretty is a way to make it easier for your husband not to look at other beautiful women.
While her story begs the question of what kind of plastic bubble her children are living in (do they ever go to the beach?), I'm trying to focus instead on the argument that if men trained themselves (and were encouraged in this thinking from childhood by their parents) to see ALL women (except for their own wife) as sisters -- this would completely remedy any uncontrollable lust.
While I thoroughly appreciated For Men Only, using the same approach with women simply doesn't work.
It takes things we've all heard before (like men need respect, sex, etc.) and really gets at the heart of what that means...more so than any other book I've read on the subject so far.
I was a bit surprised by some of the things I read, but I carefully started applying what I learned in my relationship with my boyfriend.I read "For Men Only" and marked how I would have answered the survey questions and underlined a few remarks that were especially true for me.
My wife asked me to read this book this morning and tell me if it is truth. I picked it up to get the gist of it and an hour and a half later I finished the book. I think it is a good book for couples that have been married for a while to read and discuss. Not sure I would give it to a newly married couple. I liked the book but do not think all things in the book are normative to all men. Good book good read.
The author refers to your significant other as "your man" and positions herself as your older-but-wiser girlfriend.
All of this was so off-putting to me that I honestly might not have cracked it again, but my husband looked through it and ominously declared, "Women disregard these ideas at their peril." Bryan does not commonly throw out oracular utterances regarding my book choices, so I decided I'd have to read it, after all.
I believe many of the things she writes can apply to women, too, but I can't disregard its special relevance, because it sparked a really reflective conversation between "my man" and me.
Not that I have anything against Christians (being one myself), but I often don't agree with the fundamentalist/born-again point of view.
Wives are advised to change their points of view and actions to accommodate their husbands.
I will be reading the "For Women Only" companion book that came with it next, and it will be interesting to see how much men are advised to change to accommodate women.The information itself, while useful, was overly simplified, dumbed-down, and over-explained.
But the author doesn't answer the question that was on my mind: What do you do when your husband hasn't earned your respect?
Basically, I'm supposed be a nun in public to help other men stay true to their wives, and a sex kitten in private.
I also feel that she targeted her survey audience, and a survey of only a few thousand individuals leads to a lot of generalities about half our population!In the end, I guess I'm just really embarrassed that Feldhahn put together such backwards thinking information.
And embarrassed that I spent the time listening to it.
Now as most of you out there may know, I am not a wife, yet (I still hold out hope), however, when I read books like this it's always with that expectation in mind, and more specifically, because I am an observer of people, I usually draw on past experiences and behavior that I have witnessed in order to understand why I do the things that I do, and feel the way that I feel about certain things.
The author unwittingly explained the logic behind the Islamic stance on marital relations and the standard for public conduct.Th book covers 7 facts about men, which are outlined in the sample and thus my sharing them here, does not qualify as a spoiler review.
This perfectly explains Prophet Muhammad's saying that women would make a majority in hell because they are unappreciative towards their husbands.2.
Men can't control themselves and they simply have to look at women (and later fantasize).
This explains why the Qur'an commands men to lower their gaze and women to cover themselves in loose fitting clothes.6.
This is filled with generalities about guys - and excuses for why they do the things they do and what WE SHOULD DO to make their lives better.
No thanks.
I thought the survey she based her work off of was taken by 21-28 year olds, but almost all stories went back to her married life or the feedback from her second survey, taken by married, churchgoers.
I am religious, but I don't think every annoying guy trait can be fixed by praying for them, so I'm not convinced by her solutions.
Maybe I should read the women's version to see how accurate those generalities seem...
Some have criticized this book for preaching strict gender roles (husband leads, woman follows) and while that is true, since I believe in that kind of thing, I found that to be far less problematic than the underlying theme that men are emotionally weak and it is the job of a good wife to stroke his ego whether that be consenting to more sex (even when she doesn't want to), putting up with men walking out on them in an argument, not offering to help with directions (lest you hurt his feelings), giving him latitude to check out other women, or keeping her body in pristine conditoin to be visually pleasing to others...
I searched and searched for some mention of what GOD thinks about all of this.
And to a certain extent, all these polls and what men think, are so helpful to us women.
BUT be very careful when you say you are grounded in the Bible, and then not really mention it!I really found a lot of interesting.
We, as women of God, should help by being modest.
So glorify God in your body." Most of the things Shaunti mentions you will want to smack your head and say, duh I should have thought of that!
I don't know if there are some huge cultural gaps that separate me from mainstream Americans or whether I just don't know any "typical males".
Or maybe I just object to this whole "women are like this...
men are like this..." notion.So in hindsight I ask myself why I read it in the first place since I'm far too opinionated, sort of object to traditional gender roles, and tend to roll my eyes at "men are from Mars, women are from Venus" attitudes.
For those who ascribe to such ideas, this is probably an interesting read, maybe even more so if your background is mainstream American (whatever that may be :) ).
I'm finally reading a book and getting to post!
Jessica lent this to me to read after I got married.
So far I really like this book.
The author validates her survey findings by using multiple regression analysis, which I use for work sometimes.
But don't worry about the statistics, that just struck my fancy.
The book is not full of statistics, it is really more of a narrative of her findings.
It has been a pretty easy read so far and has already helped me relate to and understand my husband better.
What I didn’t realize was that sometimes my female brain with its ways of thinking and showing my love to him and his male brain and the way it is wired meant that sometimes there were things that I was doing, or not doing, that were causing problems I didn’t even realize were there!Thankfully through several different women giving me books and recommending blogs I caught on early on into our marriage (probably 2 1/2 years) that there were several areas that needed work!
Backed up by professional surveys and statistical data, this books presents How Guys Think 101 written especially for women.First ImpressionsWow. When I walked into the bookstore, I had absolutely zero intention of walking out with yet-another-book-on-relationships.
Shaunti provides contrasts and comparisons between male and female ways of thinking and approaching things that make it dead easy to comprehend.Low PointsThis is not a personal low point for me, but this is a Christian book.
Out of all the relationship books I've ever read - a lot, since my dad is big on them ;) - this is one of the top four.UsefulnessIn my reviews, non-fiction books get an extra rating - how useful they are to those of use writing fiction.
Also, after taking care of the kids (which was always relegated to the wife in this book) and everything else a woman has to do their man "needs" them to take care of themselves.
"When you take care of yourself I (the man) feel like you care about me" "My wife is trying to slim down right now and it makes me feel like a million bucks" "A woman's appearance is an important part of happiness in a marriage" These statements from men put forth as truth for men everywhere only contributes to the self esteem issues, objectivization of women, and the pervasive body image issues faced in American society today.
Having sons helped pave the way for my acceptance of some of the information contained in this book.
I also kept in mind that this book is full of statistics that may or may not bear out with a man I want to be in a relationship with.
The author reminds us that she wrote this book to help women understand what is the norm, not necessarily what is true, for every man.
It will help her stop worrying about whether or not there is something intrinsically wrong with men (or herself), if that's what she wants.
Title: For Women OnlyWritten By: Shaunti FeldhahnGenre: Relationship Helps/Non-fictionRecommended Ages: 13 & up (skipping one chapter if not married)Introduction:This was my second time reading this book and I still learned a lot about myself and the men in my life.
Readability: 1/1The book is very easy to read to yourself.
That's very unusual!Un-put-down-ability: 1/1It took over a month to read, I think, but that's only because schedules didn't jive well.Conclusion: 5/5Whether you are single, married, or in a relationship, if there are any men in your life--and I mean any>--you should read this book.
However, with the growing industries of make-up and self-praising clothes, the women of society feel the need to be loved, rather than be respected.
A very doltish and insipid thought, but with the survey done by Shaunti, women felt better if they are loved, than respected indeed.
Men more than women now...but that's not the point.
The point is men need attention as much as women do.
(GOOD POINT)ANGER IS OFTEN A MAN'S RESPONSE TO FEELING DISRESPECTED (ISN'T it for women too?)Men would rather feel alone and unloved than inadequate and disrespected.Hmm...but in conclusion, I think this book deserved a few more solid points.
I know we don't have enough money to buy gas or shoes, but I will happily spend $2000 on a personal trainer to get her in shape and I get depressed every time I see her eating a donut." You imagine a guy might be thinking this, but you never really know because they would feel like jerks to say it out loud.
This is a book full of things guys think but are way too scared to vocalize.
It reminded me that I didn't have to apologize to my husband when I buy a new pair of $130 running shoes several times a year.
oh man...hehe, pun intended.
I didn't really want to know everything they told me, but it wasn't as big of a revelation as I thought it was going to be.
I guess I know my men, hehehe.
I liked her statistical approach, and the way she balanced it with tasteful scriptural references.
I'm glad she just laid out the facts honestly, but not...blatantly.
I also appreciated how she ended the book by reminding women that the main thing so many men want their wives to know is how much they love them.
It was that they loved them.
Very enlightening. For Women Only answers questions, clears things up, displays surprising realities, and just makes it all around easier to understand the men in your life! I feel like I've learned a lot, and reading this book has made me desire to show more respect/love/honor to men in the way they understand.I've read For Young Women Only twice, but this one was even more helpful, I think.I highly, highly recommend. Looking forward to reading more by Shaunti Feldhahn soon! (Maybe even the updated version of this particular book!)
It was fast, and had some good points, another reviewer said it was a dumbed down version of another book that now I want to read(His needs, Her needs). I'm always hesitant to recommend these kind of book because I know people are super sensitive about this topic, and gender roles in particular, especially when the book is HEAVILY Christian (which I liked). Bottom line, I tend to just take what I like and leave the rest, so I liked this book.
I'm thankful to be reading these marriage-related books after getting married, because bringing my personal experience to them really helps me understand what they say as relates to us. I found all of this book helpful, even the parts that could be redundant to what I've read before, but I especially appreciate the chapters about thinking and providing.
This book reminded me of books that my parents brought back after attending one of the many Christian seminars that were touted to strengthen their marriage. I found it repulsive and belittling. The author was both flippant and silly. It seemed to me that her advice and observations were plain common sense.
I found this book pushed my buttons, which made for lively discussion with friends. However, i found John Grey's "why mars and venus collide" more enjoyable reading and very helpful. "For Women Only" was only about men, and not a side by side comparison. Reading it's companion, For Men Only, might soothe some of the issues it raised for me.
