https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6578293-dog-days
And Dog Days they are. Dog days : noun " When everything you do, the universe some how conspires to undo. " - My very own dog, Eva [in the figure above] There is a new pet in the family and bringing something into the family without the wife's consent is a bad idea.Bringing "something alive" is suicide. Regardless to say Sweetie did not survive the entire book without being shipped.Humor is all yours to loot. The hatred for the comic galvanizing Greg and Mr. Heffley is something we can very much
And Dog Days they are.
Dog days : noun " When everything you do, the universe some how conspires to undo.
" - My very own dog, Eva [in the figure above]
There is a new pet in the family and bringing something into the family without the wife's consent is a bad idea.Bringing "something alive" is suicide.
Regardless to say Sweetie did not survive the entire book without being shipped.Humor is all yours to loot.
The hatred for the comic galvanizing Greg and Mr. Heffley is something we can very much relate to.
Emergency phone is a bogus phone.
I read this entire book on the sidelines of my eleven year old son's football game on a freezing October day in Wisconsin.
Middle school football is boring.My favorite scenes from the book:1.
The idea that the wimpy kid and his dad are united in their hatred of a comic strip,2.
The email the wimpy kid sends his mom when he's on vacation with another family,3.
The hilariously weird "reading is fun" club his mom tries to start,and5.
I can see why so many kids I know love him.
Dog Days (Diary of a Wimpy Kid, #4), c2009, Jeff Kinney تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات یک بیعرضه: جلد 4، دفترچه زرد؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: جف کینی؛ مترجم: ندا شادنظر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ایران بان، چاپ نخست 1391، در 224 ص، مصور، فروست: خاطرات یک بیعرضه جلد 4، شابک جلد 4: 9789642980901؛ چاپ پنجم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور، دفترچه های خاطرات، مدرسه ها، داستان؛ گروه سنی ب و جا. شربیانی
Greg has went to vaticon with with his best friend and greg got to go to got on the ride of his life . He scared the life out of hem.
I personally think that this one is the best one out of the whole entire series!!
Does the same person Gregory got troubles with, in his life ever going to stop their encounter with him?No!And that's where the fun lies! Gregory is having a summer time playing video game all day long. While his family is running after him to do something in summer.His dad brings a dog to te family! Uh Uh He should have probably checked with his wife first! It's a family decision, isn't it?Manny gets the dog saying Sweetie, and that's that!Everyone is as fun as never before. Such a humorous read!
Greg's mum, however, seems to think that Summer holidays should be spent doing 'useful things' such as running around outside, spending time with one's family and visiting the local pool.Through daily entries the reader follows Greg as he gets into mischief at his friend's luxury poolhouse, managing to offend staff with his helpful recommendations of how to improve service and ends up banned, with a huge smoothie tab to pay off.
Dog Days is packed full of humour and manages to highlight just how differently parents and children see the world.
I would recommend this book for Y4 or Y5 children of all reading abilities, however, the diary layout, informal language and relaxed style of the book make it a particularly fantastic resource for less confident readers across upper KS2.
Plan to finish this today! I like this much better than "The Last Straw". Anyone out there who has read the Wimpy Kid series agree or disagree? So far, my favorite part is Rowley thinking that Greg's family is rich because they ran out of toilet paper and were using Christmas napkins until Dad went to get more TP. Been there done that!
جريج كان نفسه في كلبولما تحققت امنيته شاف الويل وسواد الليل من الكلب ده :Dالجزء ده لذيذ جدا تعاملاته مع اهله موتتني من الضحكعمري ما باشبع منه
She wants him to spend time with the family, improving his education, and playing outdoors.Greg tries to implement his ideas of summer, but without much success.
He tries to spend time with Rowley kicking back at his friend's father's country club, but gets permanently uninvited when he accidentally tells the clubhouse manager his complaints about the place's service.
Things only get worse when his mom tells him he has to find a way to pay off half of the smoothie bill he and Rowley racked up.When Greg's father comes home with a dog that won't leave him alone, he's soon at his wits end.
Greg's dream is to stay home and play video games but his mom disaproves with that so she kicks him out of the house the whole day so he could go and play games.
Greg didn't like that idea he was just thinking staying home playing video games with chips and the curtains closed.
Greg is an indoor person, i can relate to Greg's feelings and thought because me too when i go to my grandma and grandpa i just want to go play video games with some friends and sleepover at their house.
I would recommend this book to someone who wants to have fun in life and understand the facts about boys.
It is about a kid who is in middle school and faces a lot of problems.
The main character Greg Heffrey is stuck as a middle child and a social outcast.
His best friend Rowlery Jefferson and own a lot of money to Rowlery's dad because of unwise spending at a country club.
They decided to create a summer lawn care to help pay for the money that they own to Rowlery's dad.
When their summer bussiness goes horribly wrong Greg finds himself in a rut.
Read the book to find out what more happens to a horrible summer for Greg.
Diary Of A Wimpy Kid Dog DaysBy: Jeff KinneyRealistic Fiction216 PagesDiary Of A Wimpy Kid Dog Days is a book about A kid named Greg Heffley.
This book is about how Greg Heffly spends his summer.
But Greg Heffley doesn't spend his summer out side.
He stays inside and plays video games.
But Greg's mom doesn't like him playing video games.
Greg and his friend Rowley do weird stuff during summer vacation.
I like books that have humor.
Like my mom telling me to go play out side instead of sitting in front of the t.v. and playing video games.
Filling sorry for the kid one second laughing at his wierd side the next, this book will keep you reading.
THis book relates to our lives in many ways, it reminds of those kids that where kind of off, and tells us some of there stories.
After that though, I believe any age would love this book.
The literary elements in this story are, imagery and and alot of figurative language.
Its figurative language consist of similes and of onomatopeas, that is what is in this book.All in all, the book is a want to read.
I was expecting that this 4th book could have loads of funny stories of Greg with a dog(s). I know expected too much but despite that, I did enjoy the diary entries written. I was just a little disappointed that Greg and his family didn't have that many happy memories with Sweetie while the dog is with them. But at least, his Grandma was able to keep the dog in the end. Maybe some are not really a dog person/people after all.
this book has to be funny.Look at the cover how can you not say no!!
in this book  Greg  was grounded  because he watched the muddy hand movie with his friend Rowley without the permission of his parents, so he was supposed to join his mom reading club in the neighbourhood ,eventually the club was down to one member , that was Greg !He spent an horrible vacation with  Rowely's familly ; he got into a lot of troubles during that summer ..The book was not funny at all at least for me , but it still easy read
Greg Heffley, who is now an expert in the middle school ways, is on summer vacation.
Greg’s mom wants him to be more social, more active, and more … well, outgoing.
But after the sufferings of walking through the men’s shower room at the pool and having a cold, wet dog sleep next to him all night, Greg realizes that being lazy and irresponsible is just the way he is.The Diary of a Wimpy Kid series has yet to disappoint me!
Greg’s experiences and feelings are so realistic that I couldn’t help but sympathize with him, laugh at him, and just want to be with him!

Σχεδόν το έχω καθιερώσει μου φαίνεται: κάθε κυριακή και ένας σπασίκλας!Αυτή τη φορά βρισκόμαστε στις καλοκαιρινές διακοπές, όπου ο Γκρεγκ προσπαθεί να κοιμηθεί ως αργά (ε μα κι αυτός ο μπαμπάς να γκρινιάζει που γυρίζει από τη δουλειά και ο Γκρεγκ κοιμάται ακόμα!), να γλιτώσει την πισίνα (μέχρι να μάθει ότι μια ωραία κοπέλα δουλεύει εκεί), να βγάλει εύκολα λεφτά να ξεπληρώσει το χρέος που δεν κατάλαβε πώς δημιούργησε (θα του ταίριαζε να είναι ελληνάκι), ενώ μπαστούνια τα βρίσκει όταν το μεγαλύτερό του όνειρο, να του πάρουν σκυλάκι, γίνεται πραγματικότητα...
Begging of Summer vacation Greg has 3 things that he want to do in his summer.First is going to beach second is day of end of "L'il Cutie" ,But son of Author have start new L'il Cutie He didn't fun at it.
Second is Birth day ,but He didn't got good present and his uncle's dog ate birth day cake so he felled sad good thing is he was able to get fish for another present that eaten by Rodrick's fish.
You could engaging this book with how Greg is unlucky like he can't go anywhere he wish and can't swim in the pool and even his finger hurts.
And much like Greg Heffley, I am content to live out the dog days of summer sitting pretty in a cozy, darkened room....surrounded by books, crisps and the waves of air-conditioned goodness.Speaking of books, I had been oscillating between dire apocalyptic dramas and predictable mush fests.
But if you are picking up the book for the first time or reading it as a standalone book, it’s smirk worthy.
I think I probably would've enjoyed reading some of the other books in this series first, but unfortunately this was the only one I could find.
I liked the irony behind the fact that Greg 'guarantees' that either the girl or the pig in "Charlotte's Web" will die when really it's just a spider.
But I think, if I see any of the other books, preferrably The Last Straw or Roderick Rules (because I like sibling rivalry) I will have to read it too.
She wants him to go outside and be active but he definitely doesn't like that.
He makes his family think he has a job while he relaxes all day at the country club.
I really like this book because it talks about real things teenagers are going through and give it a fun twist to make it funny.
The book is great it has a fun plot, fun characters whats more to love.
One again Jeff Kinney did an amazing job with making a good book with a easy plot and understandable characters.
I think your going to like it.
This is as dull as the previous 3 books, very similar stuff, Greg still isn't a nice kid and he needs some decent parenting, unfortunately his parents are pathetic so I don't see that happening soon.
Rodrick's pranks are brilliant, he has taken them to a new level here.The thing that bugged me the most in this book was Greg gets 3 months off for his summer holidays!
who gets 3months off?
When I was a lad it was an incredibly short 6weeks.Some good news though, I've managed to talk my daughter into taking a break with a David Walliams book.
5/5! I kept laughing out loud...literally. Need I say more?
He writes everything in a diary and doesn't say anything, he always tricks his supposedly best friend in to doing things for him, and he lies to his parents.
People like this can't just go around and stomp on everyone else like ants, they need to be put in place and shown the right way to do things.
Because people who think they are the best wind up lonely and friendless.
But why?I think people drift from positive vibes because they are too caught up in being negative and mean that they can't think about how it's wrong.
My son has read all of these books and was thrilled when his book fair coincided with the release week of this book.The rating above is based on readability and the fact that my son loved it.Now on to my personal thoughts:I let him read through all of these and didn't think anything about it.
I'm not sure I like this book - this child wants to sit around and play video games and not do anything with his family.
I don't believe my opinion is the end-all and be-all, I'm unsure as far as these books are concerned.So tell me your thoughts on this series.
Title: Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog DaysAuthor: Jeff KinneySummary: This book is part of Greg's funny journal focusing on his summer. Greg's idea of his summer vacation being a video game marathon. That was not Greg's mom's idea. This book is mostly about Greg's mom coming up with idea's (that end up not being good ideas at all) to keep Greg off of video games.  The first idea Greg actually like for a while. The idea was he would go with Rowley to the country club Rowley and his parents were a part
Greg's idea of his summer vacation being a video game marathon.
This book is mostly about Greg's mom coming up with idea's (that end up not being good ideas at all) to keep Greg off of video games.
Greg and Rowley were having a fun time until Rowley's dad informed Greg's mom that they had charged a lot of money because they thought the smoothies were free.
Also Greg's mom made up a reading is fun club.
That you will also need to read all the funny events in the book!
The fourth installment of the Wimpy Kid series focused on the life of middle school student Greg Heffley.
I found Dog Days to be by far the worst of the series.
The book focuses on the summer adventures of Greg, and somehow the removal of Greg from school also sapped much of the humor from the events of his life.
Instead, I found myself disliking Greg much more than I did in the three prior books.
Recommended only for elementary students and their parents who are fans of the series; non-fans can take a pass on this one.
