https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114333-the-hanged-man-of-saint-pholien
The more Maigret novels I read, the more I believe I've made a good choice in reading the entire series. I am only through book four and I'm already craving the next one. This time I'm linking my thoughts on this book directly to my reading journal where I talk about it in conjunction with the other two I've just recently finished, The Carter of 'La Providence' and The Late Monsieur Gallet. http://www.crimesegments.com/2017/09/...Simenon is a master of human nature, and considering I read mainly to discover what makes people tick, well, I'm in my element here.
Maigret immediately realizes that, without meaning to, he has caused a certain Louis Genet to shoot himself in the mouth.
This terrible turn of event leads Maigret to try to discover more about this Louis Genet — who turns out to be traveling under an assumed name.
As Maigret tries to find out this man’s real identity, he stumbles onto a bigger — and older — crime.
To say more would be to ruin the mystery, but let me say that, of the four Georges Simenon novels I’ve read, this is the most unusual and the best.
The novel really shows Maigret as the unique officer of the law that he is.
Later though he witnesses the man open the new case and be so horrified by what he finds – or what he doesn’t find – that he immediately blows his brains out.
But when Maigret opens the real case, he finds that it contains nothing valuable at all, just a stained old suit.Maigret begins to investigate.
But this isn’t a case where the Inspector is called in to meet a strange new crime, but one loaded with guilt as Maigret tries to find out just how responsible he is for this death.This isn’t so much a whodunit then, as ‘a what the hell is going on’ crime novel.
Maigret follows a suspicious character to Bremen and witnesses his suicide - he determines to find out why, and the back story takes him across Belgium and France. Quite a strong psychological strain runs through this book, with Maigret's doggedness putting on the pressure.
Georges Simenon is the antidote to all those fussy little mysteries where everything is so clear-cut, and all the detective has to do is waltz between a few suspects until he or she finds the guilty party in a final dash of brilliance.
Is he on to us?And so it goes until Maigret discovers the facts of the case by a process known in French as débrouiller or "cutting through the fog." This case, like so many of Maigret's, is clearly wrapped in some obscuring mists.

Au terme d'une mission accomplie à Bruxelles, Maigret, intrigué par un individu suspect aperçu dans un petit café de la ville, le suit jusqu'à son arrivée à Brême où l'inconnu, qui s'appelle Jeunet, se suicide en constatant qu'on a substitué à sa valise une autre toute semblable.
Maigret, qui avait procédé à cette substitution pendant le voyage en train, s'aperçoit que la valise de Jeunet contient de vieux vêtements tachés de sang.
Simenon himself was a bit of an enigma and the way he writes Maigret in these early books probably tells you a lot more about how Simenon saw himself than it does about the man who would go on to star in over 70 detective novels.
And as close a one as you're likely to get from a man who consistently lied about himself, even in his own memoirs.
This is my 4th George Simenon book.Each book just gets better.Narrator Gareth Armstrong has a great voice.His female voices are always interesting.Clean except for one word of Foul Language.
3.5 starsThis is my favorite Maigret thus far. I really enjoyed this one and it really deserved a 3 and a half stars from me. This is the 4th book in the series and I have about 71 more to go.
Second sad story in a row. I guess you can pity criminals here too. Only I'm not sure they are even criminals but they were sufficiently punished by life for their crime. This is the story about four sad men half of which went crazy from unbearable guilt.Maigret here is always late until he comes on time.
A poignant and moving examination of suicide and youthful idealism again showing there is much more to Georges Simenon's Maigret series than simple detective stories. Excellent.
Otra magistral muestra de dominio del género por Simenon. Maigret es un gran tipo, el policía que sufre con los delincuentes.
In The Hanged Man of Saint-Pholien by Georges Simenon, Detective Chief Inspector Maigret is on a train when he sees a man acting curiously. So Maigret follows the man to Brussels, where he gets a room adjoining the first man’s room in a cheap motel. Spying through the keyhole, Maigret sees the man put a gun to his mouth and pull the trigger.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
as I read through this, I found myself appreciating the psychological quality of the narrative. I found the ending of the story somehow simultaneously maudlin and surprisingly satisfactory. it's very dramatic - as are the scenes where Maigret dashes through Paris, trying to get to newspaper archives before someone else gets there first to rip out the pages. Simenon creates situations that he can describe in lovely, curious ways.
3.5/5
Maigret no. 4 - very enjoyable despite unlikely subject matter. I felt I can see the development of the Maigret character having recently read no. 1.
Maybe the strangest Maigret I’ve read and maybe even the strangest suspense thriller. Maigret’s curiosity instigates a suicide and an almost accidental investigation into the identity of the dead man reveals a crime committed 10 years ago by a band of students. It’s a series of personal encounters and collisions until the ‘criminals’ break under the psychological pressure of being pursued. Practically no actual detective work or even interrogations. Atmospheric of early 20th century Europe but very weird!
The Hanged Man of Saint-Pholien is the fourth novel in Georges Simenon’s Inspector Maigret books. First published in 1931 it evokes the quiet desperation of the early 1930s whilst still being fresh and modern.
I needn’t have worried – this fourth novel is classic Maigret, where the focus is more on the psychology of the characters than pulp detective action.
The story begins when Maigret follows a man acting suspiciously and inadvertently causes him to commit suicide in a hotel room in Brussels.
It’s an interesting and concise story, but the main appeal for me is in watching Maigret work – his doggedness, and his Columbo-like ability to both annoy his suspects and play dumb to the point that they underestimate him.
And I like the atmosphere of the Maigret novels: Paris at night, often in the rain or cold: these are books that we have to picture in black and white.
There is a certain variation on the usual police procedural narrative: Maigret has just finished a case in Brussels and is returning to Paris when he notices a poorly dressed man at the station stuffing an envelope with bank notes; suspecting that mischief is afoot, but partly out of vanity, Maigret follows the man and, being intrigued by the man’s shabby suitcase, he swaps it for an identical one; the man, on finding his case has been stolen, kills himself.
As is usual in detective narratives, the story moves forward with Maigret’s investigation, but also ‘backwards’ into the past as the story behind the initial events is revealed.
The author's interpretation of this event involves an evocation of a similar clique of young men who fancy themselves artists and bohemians and call themselves "The Companions of the Apocalypse." A murder and two suicides (including one like that at the church of Saint-Pholien) are the the products of this group, and Simenon discovers that this cabal has maintained a code of silence about all of the events to prevent the members' arrest.
In the end, Maigret releases all of the men and lets the case drop, primarily because several of those involved have led reformed lives and had children who would only suffer from their punishment.
Maybe Simenon was experimenting with the "romans durs" that he would later write, but this novel seems to fall between the two stools of the police procedural Maigret and the "roman dur"--in the most unsatisfactory manner.I do like the fact that Maigret is not the perfect supercop of modern PP fiction: he makes mistakes, gets the wrong ideas, and sometimes his deduces are wild.
The beginning was promising: Maigret decides to have a little fun with a shabby little man he suspects of being up to no good, so he follows him around and exchanges suitcases with him to see what he's carrying.
Especially as in the next room was Maigret, who had been observing the man and witnessed his suicide but now has material evidence to solve the crime just weeks before the statute of limitations ends.Great story, less than 140 pages but like any Simenon book no words are wasted.
Maigret is a force of nature in his persistence to find the truth.
He gathers impressions and opinions, checking facts and fresh information to slowly solve this mystery.
He places his own well being at risk by his determination to reveal and face the truth.
Never judgemental but always keen to solve the case.
For the first 90 pages or so, it's the ultimate French mystery--you have no idea where all of this leads, but the characters and situations are so fascinating and odd--the little man who carries around a cheap suit stained with blood, the artist who paints picture after picture of a man hanging outside a church--that you keep reading.
The end ties it all together relatively clearly, but so quickly and so clumsily: the protagonists can no longer be silent and so they simply tell Maigret what he hasn't even faintly guessed, so we can be finished with the story already.

The brevity of these books makes them easy to gobble and they are so worth it! I have enjoyed seeing Maigret develop and the style settle in. This particular book is moody and obsessive, and we follow Maigret in his unstoppable determination to solve a puzzle, but always keeping the consequences of his actions in view. These early books seem to have little of Paris in them. At some point in maigret's career, he spends less time rambling about Western Europe and more allowing readers to get acquainted with his Paris.
My character-study-murder-mystery streak continues with Georges Simenon, who writes very concisely about very complex themes and human motivations. This book is a great example of a Maigret mystery, complete with inter-continental sleuthing on trains and seedy hotels, and a huge moral conundrum at the very end. I don't know who came first, Christie's Poirot or Simenon's Maigret, but either way...the Belgians are good at solving mysteries, including those of the human mind!
O autor consegue trazer seus personagens para uma distância tão pequena de nós, que acabamos por perceber que todos poderíamos agir daquela maneira, pressionado por aquelas circunstâncias, por aquelas pessoas. Enfim, a diferença entre o crime e a virtude se esfarela quase sem surpresa alguma.
In cui accade che in seguito ad alcuni inattesi e penosi eventi Maigret si sentì stringere il cuore da qualcosa che assomigliava a un rimorso, il che, lasciatemelo dire, assomiglia a una rivelazione.
