https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412956.The_Lost_Keys_of_Freemasonry
Hall dispenses with any kind of hyper-detailed deconstruction and exhorts the readers to become 'true Masons' in spirit in various ways.
TL;DR: The Lost Keys of Freemasonry are simply the real integration & enactment of its principles by 'true Masons.' The second book details Egyptian whatnot and I thought was quite boring, whereas the final book details some historical personages and developments in Masonry that was only of tangential interest.
Not particularly recommended - there are no real Lost Keys here, although the general spirit of the first portion is worthwhile (although it can be summarized as focus on the spirit, not the letter).
An interesting read which provides some of the ideology behind freemasonry. Throughout the book, it prompted me to question myself and the direction I am heading. I enjoyed the opportunities of contemplation it allowed.
Hall is an excellent writer. How he wrote as insightfully, poetically and beautifully as he did, while not even a freemason is hard for me to understand. The first book was the best. followed by the second. By the third book, the magic was gone, and it was quite dry and boring. did more simming than reading. But the first book (essentially an archetypal explanation of one of the central legends of freemasonry) is very illuminating. good read.
Excellent philosophical treatise on the real life work of Freemasonry.
An excellent book for Freemasons interested in the more esoteric aspects of The Craft. If possible, read it as you progress through the first three degrees for additional insight.
I understand that when he wrote it he was not yet a Mason but I think he might have been Rosicrucian (?) Anyway, I think it was very well written and I think that the use of poetic language there is the only way to describe the meaning of symbols not only in Masonry but also all around the world.
I don't want to say too much unless I'm wrong but I like to think I understand.Hall goes from explaining the quest through Hiram Habiff and the three ruffians being Thought, Desire and Action who assassinate the Builder (Hiram) and then work to ressuscitate him.
If you are a Freemason, you need to read this book.
This book is a combination of several smaller books/pamphlets by the author, so some of the same ground is gone over twice.
Frequently referred to in this edition is General Albert Pike, since I grew up in Arkansas, his name is familiar.
In addition, Pike wrote "Morals and Dogma" which is also used by Hall as a reference and may provide further illumination on this interesting character.
While the subject of General Pike was covered in Arkansas History, any ties to freemasonry were only briefly mentioned if mentioned at all.
I enjoyed reading it because Hall approached the subject without apparent condemnation or approval of the subject matter.
Being new to the study of the more esoteric side of Freemasonry I really had no preconceptions about what to expect when reading this book.There were definitely times I thought to myself "Gee, this reads like NewAge (rhymes with sewage :)" but inevitably I would realize upon finishing the section that this was more commentary on my reaction to the writer's style than any actual content of the book.
About 2/3 through. Actually am reading a compilation of three books by this author in one volume. Mixture of poetic beauty, mysticism, and historical research. Update: Finishing last pages. Well worth the read. The fascination of the initial book in the volume was hard to beat. Not for everyone, but I enjoyed the mysticism and poetic beauty that Hall put together during much of "The Freemasonry of the Egyptians" portion, and episodically in the later half of it.
I haven't read it completely since the depth of the book requires to commit a lot of time which unfortunately I do not find in my daily routine :-) but I really admire the basic concepts of freemasonry that I have acquired and understood. It is beautiful and I believe if freemasonry is understood well and embraced, can change one's life.
When I read this book I was ignorant of all the going ons in the supposedly secret societies that have existed over time. I was floored and amazed at the level of spirituality that the Freemasons were and are trying to achieve. I am not a freemason so I have no clue if any of it is true.
This is not merely a book, but at least a guide to rediscovering the tools we have within each of us. "Discouragement and suffering too often brings down the temple, burying under its debris the true reason for being and the higher motives for living."
I picked this book up because of my curiosity for secret spiritual socities, and this book is definitely spiritual. I was pleasantly surprised with the book's overall message. Keep an open mind, for those that are not spiritually inclined.
So long as you take it as allegory and not history, it can be interesting. You have to be careful with Manly Hall though because he just makes stuff up and passes it off as truth. N.B. He wasn't even a Mason when he wrote this.
Hall provides a useful set of insights into the first three degrees of Freemasonry. Freemasonry is without doubt the last surviving well-known source of the true secrets of this illusion and the book goes some way into explaining the meanings of rituals.
An excellent study by Hall. Here are the outlined ideology of Masonry and a history of the mystery schools. Most valuable however are the rites attributed to ancient Egypt as these provide a valuable insight into the likely origins of the mysteries and offer a clue as to the wisdom therein.
Really great philosophical writing about the tenets of Freemasonry. I highlighted a lot of passages for myself. A must-read for any Mason!
fabulous!
More to this book than meets the eye. One of the deepest of published Masonic books.
Insightful, eludes to freemasonry as a religion...same author praises "black magic" and satanic ritual via Waite and Levi.
"It is worse by far to know and not to do than never to have known at all.""He must search for the high things in lowly places and find the lowly things in high places."
A mind needs to be opened to absorbed all that he shares within this book. Manly P. Hall does not just discuss Freemasonry, but of self-development and self-knowledge.
A must-read for all FreemasonsManly P. Hall is one of the great philosophical lights of Freemasonry, and this book, while often mis-quoted, one of his most profound works.
Nonetheless, the below text is nothing but my current view of Freemasonry.As someone who I deem as my spiritual mentor and father figure my only regret is that Manly Hall did not understand that the masonic "Grant Architect of the Universe" is nothing more than the Old Testament God. Having heard his lectures on the occult and Gnosticism I am sure that with time, after the publication of his underrated Old Testament Wisdom, he understood that Freemasonry is nothing more in its current state than a social club with little to no true connection to Rosicrucianism, the Cabbalistic Occult and true spiritually enlightening practice.
A little too wordy in the beginning but Chapters 5 and 6 were worth the effort. Every Mason should read these two chapters at least once a month the rest of their lives along with their Rituals Manuals.Forget all the other rhetoric by all those repetitive speech makers.That is the Masonic life I would like to live and try to meet my obligations taken in all the Three Degrees. That book will never be far from my reach and be used in junction with my other 3 favourite books; the Great light, Masonry Defined and my Ritual Manual.
Garbage. Useless written by someone trying to promote a product by linking Freemasonry with an imagined history to inflate its own self worth. People who think it is excellent want to read into the craft to believe it has some rich history instead of having started as a drinking club. Hall is to masonry what Hubbard is to Scientology...
The veiled teachings of this volume are quite incomprehensible to the non-initiated or those who have no interest in the occult.It is an eternal volume that a Mason would read more than once during his masonic life because every time it has something different and new to say.
A great esoteric look at the work of the craft and tying it to the ancient rites that we are the symbolic successors to.
An essential read for those who hold an interest in Freemasonry or esoteric practice.
