https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16429.The_Husband
I liked it but it wasn't as good as my old Koontz's books  BACK TO KOONTZ There was a while since I had read a new novel by Dean Koontz, well, at least a new novel to me, and I was quite excited to read this one.I thought that the premise was very good...A husband is threatened by some unknown people kidnapping his wife and demanding two million dollars, that indeed he doesn't have and he hadn't the least clue of how to get it.The book is divided in three parts, and I think that the first part
I think that the basic premise was just enough to build a quite good thriller, the husband fighting alone against the world to save his wife.However, the story gets more complicated reaching some too far-fetched levels, that in my opinion were totally unnecessary.It saturated a story that it could way simpler.I have to admit that some of the twists in the story have a lot of air of a Hitchcock film, that in my opinion it's a big compliment coming from me.However, I supposed that all it's about expectations and some of those twists were against my initial expectations for the novel, so instead to increase my reading experience with the book, it got more erratic and/or harder to accept it.
His novels are aways full of weird and over the top characters that he makes believable and then he puts them in situations which are weird and over the top and makes them believable.This time around Dean changes things up a bit.
No question.The kidnappers tighten the screws from that moment on by first killing someone "innocent" so Mitch will know they mean business.
I don't believe this is the desired affect Dean meant.The second thing I didn't care for was just a pet peeve of mine and it didn't really take away from the story.
In chapter one Mitch learns of his wife's kidnapping.
Deciding to write a review of it, I grabbed a paperback and began to read.The Husband is one of those airport books that will keep your attention during the flight, but you can leave them on the plane without feeling any guilt.
Here's your answer: he doesn't do it at all.This could have been an enjoyable beach read, but Koontz decided to write another 50 books that year so he had to call it quits.
I thought it started well... with a twist that surprised me and captured my interest. From there, it just got less and less believable. From a storytelling standpoint, it was marginal, but as a quality piece of writing it was much worse. It felt churned out, quickly crafted without much afterthought other than the meticulous use of landscaping vocabulary. I'll say this for it, though, there weren't a lot of words on the page so I didn't waste a lot of time getting to the end.
One of the things I love about reading a Dean Koontz book is that I can pretty much tell just by the fact that he wrote it that it will be a good read.This book follows a man who is trying to ransom his kidnapped wife.
There are several other authors that I have read over time who have become predictable in their plot devices and story lines, and I am pleased to say that after 20 years of reading Dean Koontz novels, he still surprises me.Also, I love that in the back of his book he gives his address for fans to write to, and if you listen to his podcast you know that he and his wife answer every letter that is sent.
Suspenseful and brilliant, Koontz is the master with words indeed. Brilliant plot, fast paced and thrilling. I read this book expecting less after reading mixed reviews but whilst Koontz hasn't added his usually spooky side to things it's still a very well written book. I loved the twists and turns that stopped me from thinking I had things all worked out.
His wife starts with “Whatever happens, I love you.” Then the kidnapper gets on the line and demands $2 million.
But the kidnapper is adamant that “If you love your wife enough” Mitch will find a way to come up with the ransom in time.
The formula is pretty standard, and I was pretty certain the “good guys” would win.
The ending felt rushed and unfinished to me, but I definitely enjoyed the ride.
This is the first book by Koontz that I’ve read.
Especially when I’m in the mood for a fast-paced, entertaining thriller.Holter Graham does a fine job narrating the audio version.
Estuvo bueno, la verdad. No fue increíble ni me cambió la vida, me molestaron varias partes, sobretodo el final, pero fue entretenido. Vídeoreseña: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z-FIr...
Όταν ενδιαφέρεσαι περισσότερο για το εάν θα μαγειρέψεις αύριο φασολάκια ή φακές αντί για τη μοίρα του άμοιρου πρωταγωνιστή, τότε το λες και φιάσκο. Sorry, not sorry.
It was sketchy and the dialogue at times was just plain awkward.There were some moments that made me sit up, but those were far and in-between and mostly had to do with the wife, Holly.
The husband, Mitch was a fucking pansy and I hated him even after he grew balls at the very, very end of the book.The ending was a happily-ever-after of the likes that have not been seen since Breaking Dawn.
I don't want a chocolate syrup-coated sundae with fucking rainbow sprinkles.
Koontz Group Read July 2017 July 2017 read - In my second read, it reminds me of "Gone Girl" by Gillian Flynn, where Nick Dunne is being lead by Amy Dunne to her "phony" kidnapping & ransom.In "The Husband" is Mitch Rafferty being lead by real kidnappers? or is he just being lead by his wife Holly Rafferty?My September 2014 read - How does a husband running a landscaping business save a kidnapped wife for $2,000,000? This shows how he needs to get others to get the money for him. The end is
Koontz Group Read July 2017
July 2017 read - In my second read, it reminds me of "Gone Girl" by Gillian Flynn, where Nick Dunne is being lead by Amy Dunne to her "phony" kidnapping & ransom.In "The Husband" is Mitch Rafferty being lead by real kidnappers?
or is he just being lead by his wife Holly Rafferty?My September 2014 read - How does a husband running a landscaping business save a kidnapped wife for $2,000,000?
The end is a "thriller" on how does the husband -or- wife save themselves when meeting the kidnapper/murderer?
There's something truly fresh about this book, and I think what stands out the most is, Koontz actually managed to scare me again.
I haven't felt that way during a Koontz novel since reading DRAGON TEARS in 1993, and I think that novel only scared me because I was 13 years old.
In the last Koontz book I read, the MC (a pastry chef) droned on and on about this baked good or that tasty confection.
Koontz had me on the edge of my seat for over 95% of this book, so much so that I didn't want the ride to end.
In the old days he used to do supernatural horrors but these days he seems to have re-branded himself as a thriller writer, and there’s no doubting that he’s extremely prolific – I see new books coming out from him all the time.
The Husband was released a couple of years ago and it’s familiar territory for thriller fans: a seemingly innocuous man finds himself caught up in a whole heap of trouble when his wife is kidnapped and held for ransom.What follows is a novel that’s chock-full of twists and turns and an easy writing style that makes it an effortless read.
زوجتك في قبضتنا، يمكنك استعادتها مقابل 2 مليون دولار، نقدًا، أمامك ستون ساعةwe've your wife, you can get her back for 2 millions dollars ...
by : Dean Koontz"زوجتك في قبضتنا، يمكنك استعادتها مقابل مليوني دولار ..
نقدًا"بمنتهى البساطة هي رواية ممنوعة لأصحاب القلوب الضعيفة، ولكل من يتناول أدوية وعقاقير للقلب...
مراته اتخطفت، والخاطفين طالبين 2 مليون دولار في خلال 60 ساعة مهلة...
الدار العربية للعلوم ناشرون.س : ماذا تفعل لأجل الحب ؟ هل تموت من أجله ؟ هل تقتل ؟* مكالمة بائسة تلقاها ميتش تشكلت له أسوء كابوس في حياته، حيث بدا المتصل أنه جاد إلى أبعد الحدود، لم يهتم كيف سيستطيع أن يجمع "ميتشل" الـ 2 مليون دولار، لكنه واثق أنه سيفعل، إذا كان يحبها بالفعل حبًا صادقًا...
I envy the simple life that Mitch and Holly have created for themselves.
I agree with Holly's belief that we create our own realities (this idea was also presented in By The Light of the Moon, one of my favorites by Dean Koontz).
I also believe in Mitch's belief that there is meaning to be found.
just to name a few :-) Favorite Passages:"Maybe that's what a hero is - someone who instinctively does the right thing."______....
Mitch needed a weapon.
I found this book in the attic of a house i just moved into, after spending the day lugging around heavy boxes and sorting thru everything i thought why not take a break and read a few chapters, well turns out this is not one of those books you can read for a couple chapters at a time, as soon as i picked it up and started reading i found myself competely unable to stop!
I find DK creates the most amazing real feel characters the main characters you cannot help but like and the bad guys you cannot help but dislike, his writing technique is so wonderful that his words breathe life into each character making them seem more real then some people i know, anyways this book was exciting form the very first chapter.
Compared to that, this was a huge disappointment.The first hundred or so pages dragged on, but I kept reading in hopes of it becoming something more entertaining.
But instead the book just plodded on with the same mediocre sense of suspense.Though the part that still looms in my mind takes place at the end of Part I.
Mitch gets stuffed into the trunk of the old Chrysler and the lid is slammed.
The end of the next chapter describes Holly hearing a trunk lid close.
Was she being kept above the mobster's garage?
Η γυναίκα του, μια απλή κτηματομεσίτης.
Οι απαγωγείς, ρεμάλια που συμμετέχουν συνήθως σε κακουργηματικές πράξεις.
Και οι απαγωγείς αρπάζουν τη γυναίκα του κηπουρού και ζητούν από τον καλοκάγαθο σύζυγο 2 εκατομμύρια δολάρια για να του δώσουν την γυναίκα του.
Πρέπει να βρει 2 εκατομμύρια σε 60 ώρες.
Μέχρι που μπορεί να φτάσει ένας γλυκός κηπουρός, που όμως αγαπά πολύ την γυναίκα του; Μπορεί να τα βγάλει πέρα με τους στυγνούς απαγωγείς, όταν το μόνο όπλο που μπορεί να χρησιμοποιήσει είναι το κλαδευτήρι του; Ωραίο βιβλίο, γρήγορο με ένταση και νεύρο.
Καμμία σχέση με τον Κούντζ που ξέρω.
Θα το τελειώσετε μέσα σε μια μέρα.
Despite these criminals thinking they have it all under control, Mitch finds deep inside himself the balls to do something about it, including killing (in self defense, of course) and stealing to get the money together.
Dean Koontz does get into a sub-plot of Mitch and his brother and their relationship with their parents who had an unusual way of raising children, including a sense-deprivation room that was designed to "help" but really it was to break them.
They were caricatures to me and not really well-developed, despite them being a critical influence on Mitch and Anson and their sisters (who are not even mentioned until near the end of the book and even then not developed).
زوجتك في قبضتنا، يمكنك استعادتها مقابل 2 مليون دولار، نقدًا، أمامك ستون ساعة.لابد ان هناك خطأ -كيف يا رجل انا مجرد بستانى بسيط؟- أعرف= ليس لدى سوى عشرة ألاف دولار فى المصرف؟- أعرف= مستحيل كيف سأجلب لك هذا المبلغ فى 60 ساعة؟ - أتريد ان تعود زوجتك؟= بالطبع- اذن ستستطيع تجهيز هذا المبلغبالشكل المثير جدا ده بدأت الرواية, لكن لما تيجى تكتب رواية عظيمة, أحداثها مشوقة حبكتها رائعة , تفاصيلها مذهلة, ومفاجاتها لا تخطر على البال, ينبغى عليك أن تنهيها بنفس العظمة والروعة اللى بدأت بيها ..
ميتش هو مزارع مخلص و طيب القلب و يحب زوجته هولي.
فجأة يتلقى ميتش اتصالا من مجهول يخبره أن زوجته مخطوفة و لكي يستعيدها عليه أن يعطيهم مليوني دولار.
لأي حد قد يصل الزوج المحب كي ينقذ زوجته؟ هل يموت لأجلها؟ هل يقتل لأجلها؟بأي قدر تعرف الناس المحيطة بك؟ ما الشيء الذي قد يطلق الوحش في داخلك؟ هل يقتصر الوحش على صورة الشخص أحمر العينين منكوش الشعر؟لكي أكون صريحة شككت في تماسك الرواية قبل أن أبدء بها, فقد فكرت أن القصة محسومة و المرأة قد خطفت و ستمضي القصة برتابة مملة, و لحسن حظي كنت مخطئة.
"Be sure.
Evil has a cockroach endurance.
Be sure." --- so true.This is my 9th Dean Koontz book but yet between this and the last it's been years.
I'm not exactly sure why I strayed away from Koontz but I'm glad I rediscovered him.
I listened to this book on audio and even though I wasn't entirely thrilled with the narrator, I got past it.
The story was about a guy whose wife had been kidnapped and was ransomed for 2 million dollars.
The guy was a gardener.
Where would he get that kind of money?
Hence, the story begins.
Really good book.
An excellent tale of suspense focusing on the strength of love, the power of madness and the impact evil can have on the innocent. An incredible opening and equally entertaining finish let down only by a slightly slower middle section. Te expected comeraderie between the book's title character and the local Detective failed to eventuate, which i found a trifle disappointing. But despite these criticisms, THE HUSBAND is one of the better books Mr Koontz has ever written.
I listened to this on audio today and it was such a disappointment. No humor, no golden retriever's and a bland leading man who finds himself in an unthinkable situation when his wife is kidnapped & held for a ransom he can't possibly meet (he's a gardener). Chaos ensues, secrets are revealed and it all ends relatively well. It had its moments of suspense but overall was a pretty blah Koontz novel. Not horrid but nothing I'd be interested in reading again.
Plot: Centers around Mitch's wife being kidnapped.
He gets kidnapped and nearly killed at one point and the "hunting" chapter following that had the potential to be interesting but wasn't.
One of the kidnappers stalks Mitch, but then is killed by falling boxes in a freak accident (real significant threat this people are).
The final, climactic battle should be the most difficult, most painful fight.
Here, Mitch shoots the crazy guy off a motorcycle.
People in real life swear.
The average person in real life swears a lot.
I have heard people swear while making statements under oath.
Mitchell (Mitch) Rafferty is a landscaper and working a job when he receives a call that his wife has been kidnapped.
He has 60 hours to get the money and they know he is a gardener with limited means.
And like other novels similar to this, no cops or they kill his wife.Here starts Mitch’s journey to rush to get the money.
This is my second Koontz book, the first was Life Expectancy which I had rated four stars.
Despite being disappointed in The Husband, I will read Koontz again.
***I rated this books at 2.5 stars, but Goodreads doesn't let you do 1/2 star ratings.
Δε θα το συγκατέλεγα στα κορυφαία του, αλλά νομίζω ότι πολύ δύσκολα θα απογοητεύσει όσους τον γνωρίζουν καλά.
Προσωπικά πάντως αυτό που με κέρδισε περισσότερο ήταν ότι o συγγραφέας κατάφερε να με κάνει να αναρωτιέμαι πολύ συχνά τι θα έπραττα αν ήμουν εγώ στη θέση του Μιτς.
Ακόμα καλύτερα, στις “60 ώρες”, σχεδόν όλες τις φορές σήκωσα τα χέρια μου ψηλά· αδυνατούσα να λάβω τις αναγκαίες αποφάσεις και έπεφτα με τα μούτρα στη συνέχεια για να μάθω πώς κινήθηκε αυτός.
Αν έχω μια μικρή ένσταση, είναι για το τέλος του βιβλίου.
Νομίζω ότι κάπου στα κεφάλαια 66 και 67 χωρούσαν καμιά δεκαριά σελίδες επιπλέον, που θα έδεναν ακόμη καλύτερα τα όσα διαδραματίστηκαν.
Neišskirtinis, bet greitas ir smagus skaitalas, nors ir menkai tikėtina fabula, bet visai neblogai parašytas. Nieko mandro, jokių išskirtinių aplinkybių, jokio netikėto siužeto posūkio finale ar panašių triukų - nuo pat pradžios daugmaž aišku, kurlink viskas eina, ir tai vyksta stabiliai bei kryptingai. Po poros metų turbūt jau būsiu pamiršęs, bet kaip vieno vakaro skaitinys - visai neblogas.
كَمْ أحببت ميتش ..هذا الرجل المخلص والرائع ..الذي تغلب على الصعوبات وقام بكل التضخيات ..لينقذ زوجته الحبيبة ..بما فيه عقد التربية التي قام بها والديه ..وهي مشاكل لم يستطع شقيقه تجاوزها..ميتش ..هو من الرجال الذين تتساءل أي فتاة هل هو موجود حقاً ؟أوصي بقراءة هذه الرواية وبشدة ..
the last 4 chapters was the best of the whole book
