https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23522.Mythology
Still she lives in places like that, and they say she has so wasted away with longing that only her voice now is left to her.So Narcissus went on his cruel way, a scorner of love.
Hera offered to make him king, Athena offered wisdom and victory in battle, Aphrodite offered the love of the most beautiful woman in the world, Helen of Sparta.
Apollo and his laurel shall be joined together wherever songs are sung and stories told.”The beautiful shining-leaved tree seemed to nod its waving head as if in happy consent.
This book is considered as a classic for a reason... And I just wanted to say that this edition is GORGEOUS. Please, BUY IT! I promise that it'll look as AMAZING on your shelves as it does on mine! :DP.S. These beautiful photos aren't mine! ;)
The books included in this comparative evaluation are:Bulfinch's Mythology (Modern Library Paperback Edition, 2004)Mythology by Edith Hamilton (originally published in 1942; Back Bay Books edition of 1998)The Greek Myths by Robert Graves (Penguin Books combined edition, 1992)Gods and Heroes of Ancient Greece by Gustav Schwab (Pantheon Books, copyright 1946)Don't Know Much About Mythology by Kenneth C.
I based the comparative evaluation on three main general criteria - readability, accuracy, and scope (breadth and depth of coverage); I also looked at how each book handled two particular examples -- the life of Hercules and the story of Philomela and Procne.
Edith Hamilton may have written Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes more than a half century ago and she may have been fairly ancient when she did so, but she still put out one seriously readable book!Hamilton took from the best sources to cobble together slick summaries of all your old time myth favorites.
This, however, is almost entirely about the Greek Myths.
The Roman versions are only mentioned, because the Romans stole their myths wholesale from the Greeks.
Aside from that, we get a very superficial mention of the Norse myths that takes up maybe the last 5% of the book.
In the island where I grew up, there was a boy named Apollo who was naked the whole day that I could see his wang dangling while we played and he oftentimes cried when he lost in our games and I thought that, while reading this book, he did not even have a slight semblance of the Greek god he was named after.
But I think that none of those girls exhibit wisdom, reason and chastity that are the virtues of the goddess their place of work was named after.
Prior to reading this book, I thought that Troy is Brad Pitt.
In my research of his work and how it came to be I found a reference to this book by Edith Hamilton, who superseded Mr. Bulfinch in most classrooms.
Of course that isn't necessary in order to produce a good book but it shows that her views (although she was a scholar) were influenced and limited by the sources she read.While I was pleased to see that Hamilton had included the Volsunga saga in the chapter about Norse mythology (in many books it is replaced by the Nibelungenlied which was penned much later), she dismissed the saga by saying that the story is so well-known thanks to the Nibelungenlied that the original can be told briefly and THAT is an absolute no-go for me.
Only made it to page 180, but someday I'll finish it.
In the meantime, some paintings of a few myths I did read:John William Waterhouse, Echo and Narcissus, in which Echo (who can only echo what other people say) fails to save Narcissus from drowning himself while admiring his own wonderful visage.
Francisco de Goya, Saturn Devouring His Son, in which the titan Saturn eats all his children so that they won't be the death of him.Peter Paul Rubens, Leda and the Swan, in which a woman is raped by Zeus in the form of a swan.Amphora depicting Odysseus and his men blinding the Cyclopean Polyphemus, c.
660 BCE.
I believe, deep in my heart, that everyone who has attended high school in the past twenty to thirty years or so (in the United States, at least) owned a ratty, most likely used copy of this work at one time or another.
This book has been on the required reading list of so many schools that nearly everyone has seen it, owned it, and opened it at least twice.This is one only two such books I still have, 15 years out of high school: this and Strunk and White.
You can never forget your first love.
I was pleased to see the Volsungasaga included, since it is so often replaced by the Nibelungenlied (the Germanic version of Sigfried and his messed up love life), but then as I read it I found to my dismay: "The story of Siegfried is so familiar that that of his Norse prototype Sigurd can be briefly told." Do you notice the word "prototype" in that sentence?
If the title of the book had been "Greek Mythology", I think I could have given it five stars.
سرانجام! پس از دوسال! به لطف امتحان های آبدوغ خیاری ارشد و فرجه ی طولانی، این کتاب خوشمزه را یک جا سر کشیدم
This book, aside from fairy tales, has introduced me to the world beyond our reach.
I first had this book because back in high school, we were required to read it.
Well, the first few stories were a bit tedious but it was a foundation that helped me understand the other tales so it wasn’t much of a big deal to me.I don’t have many words to describe how I feel about this book.
For more of my reviews, please visit my blog: The Blair Book Project @ www.theblairbookproject.blogspot.com
I remember reading this over and over when I was in high school, just for my own pleasure.
Then I got to college, and took an actual mythology class, and the first thing the professor said was, "I hope you all haven't been reading junk like Edith Hamilton." What?!
It's a nice survey of Greek mythology, an introduction, if you will.
There are a few inaccuracies, and she barely mentions things like Hercules' trials or the Voyage of the Argo, which are studied in much greater depth generally.
The inaccuracies are some names that she's gotten wrong, which may or may not be typos.
Edith Hamilton was probably how I discovered mythology myself. I have an old tattered paperback copy of this which helped guide me through the Odyssey and the Iliad. I haven't attempted Ovid or Hesiod, but this is where I would undoubtedly start whenever decide to do so.
Greek, Roman, and Norse mythologies have affected our modern cultures more than we might like to admit.
In fact, this exactly peaked my interest in mythology in the first place.
The tantalizing music of his lyre succumbs every creature, even the mighty guardians of the underworld.The Sphinx is said to have guarded the entrance to the Greek city of Thebes, and to have asked a riddle of travellers to allow them passage.
The riddle was "Which creature has one voice and yet becomes four-footed and two-footed and three-footed?" Anyone who answered incorrectly would be killed by her.
A refresher in the Greek and Roman gods, in preparation for reading some classic literature later in the year.
I was finally encouraged to read the entire thing from having read Jesmyn Ward's Salvage the Bones, in which the 14-year-old protagonist reads Mythology and makes comparisons to her own life, comparisons based mainly on the story of Jason and Medea.
These are fantastic stories.I have not read Ovid on my own yet, and Hamilton has inspired me to finally get around to him.Overall, I feel this is a great reference and wonderful resource to have on hand.
My battered old copy of this book has been around - it may have been required reading for my father back in high school.
Because the stories here are referred to so much in literature, the names of the gods and lovers and warriors herein ring down through the centuries with such frequency that any cultured person should do an overview of the subject.I read "The Odyssey" one summer in college, with the idea of self-edification in mind, but I found it a bit tedious and bloody.
Hamilton is a good writer, and her love of the subject is communicated as well as the occasional dry comment that effectively adds a little levity.I was interested in the cosmology, in the story of Cronus eating his children and other aspects of it.
I have mixed feelings about the whole thing.
On one hand, I didn't like the practice of Hamilton retelling only the myths that she enjoyed, rather than using the most wildly accepted version of the stories or combining the different stories into one retelling.
But on the other hand, the book was well-written, well-organized, and informative.
But I wouldn't recommend reading it like a novel.And for the love of all that is holy, please don't assign students to read it that way.
Read this for English class. For greek-mythology lovers like me, it gave quite a good explanation of numerous myths and clarifies the big pictures of Norse, Roman, and Greek mythology. A bit too heavy to read in one sitting, but an excellent reference for fans of the genre. I wouldn't say this is a must-read, but definitely beneficial for a devoted reader.
5 Timeless Stars!-This book was awesome to read...the illustrations are fab. And, the stories have a wonderful easy flow. I love, love love this book💖
Dense but comprehensive.
I had three short stories to read to finish it and I completely forgot about it.
Today, I completed these short stories, and as a result, I have conquered the book I loved as a child.
This is the perfect introductory book for anyone who wants to know more about Roman, Greek or Norse mythology.
For me, there's a lot of nostalgia connected with this book.
I was gifted it, and I fell in love with it instantly.
Like I said before, it's a fun introductory read into mythology, where we learn a different version of how Hercules came to be...
Among other stories.
This was an excellent book over Greek mythology as well as some Roman and a little bit of Norse mythology as well. It was a great review of the stuff I already knew and I learned many new things too! Even if you have never picked up anything about Greek mythology or don't know much about it, you can still understand this book. I think it's a good book for those just starting to learn about the myths. Definitely recommended to the myth lovers! 😄❤️
It took me an awful long time to finish this one up, but it is a reference book rather than a novel. Still, I feel like I have accomplished something and hope to do a little better on the mythology questions during trivia nights. This is definitely a book that I will refer back to again and again.
These are not children's tales, but the heroic legends and religious beliefs of the ancient Greeks.Another strength of the book is how she organizes the myths in her seven parts: (1) Covers the complete pantheon of deities, including the lesser gods of Olympus and Earth and the later Roman additions, as well as the earliest heroes.
Another minor gripe is that the section on Norse Mythology feels less alive and exciting to me than the section on Greek; I believe that some of this simply comes from the fact that the sources for Norse mythology are thinner, so I have this problem with almost all Norse and Germanic mythology guides that don't just flat-out make stuff up.
It's a great place to start and a fantastically enjoyable source for both the most popular myths and some more obscure ones.Interestingly, Edith Hamilton was 62 years old when her first book, The Greek Way, was published, in 1930.
This book I own of Edith Hamilton has seen better days—its cover is worn and has little pleats, the pages rusty and slightly frayed at the ends, the binding loose and several pages detached from it, and scribbles and stains mark some of the pages.
It was a hand-me-down by my elder sister when I studied classical mythology for our English high school class, passed on to my two younger siblings for the same purpose, and perhaps, would also be used by my daughter when she starts to study Greek and/or Latin mythological tales.
But unlike my book, the stories in it are immaculate, timeless, and elegant, as always.
Classic tales that are forever deserving of praise and a reread time and again.
An interesting book about (mostly Greek and Roman) mythology. I would have rated this higher but I had a big mythology phase in elementary school so I actually knew many of the stories, though they were very well written. I think this is a great miniature course in mythology for anyone who is interested and doesn't already know a lot about mythology.
This is a scholarly, but very readable presentation on Greek mythology. In fact, this story really added to my love of the Greek myths. It doesn't spare the reader the darker aspects, so be warned. I would give this book to a good reader of 8 or more years of age, if they were unfamiliar with the Greek myths. Probably would leave Bulfinch for an older reader.
