https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/938791.The_Wine_Dark_Sea
“And jealous now of me, you gods, because I befriend a man, one I saved as he straddled the keel alone, when Zeus had blasted and shattered his swift ship with a bright lightning bolt, out on the wine-dark sea.”—Homer, The Odyssey, Book V—"oínopa pónton"So, "wine-dark sea" is a phrase used quite a bit by Homer.
So, it is only natural that Patrick O'Brian would eventually get around to using the "Wine-Dark Sea" image in one of his books.
I'm already sad.Here are a couple links to read if you want to read more about "wine-dark seas" and Homer: http://www.nytimes.com/1983/12/20/sci...https://www.laphamsquarterly.org/sea/...http://clarkesworldmagazine.com/hoffm...
One of my favorite in the series yet. Imagine being in a sailing ship near an underwater volcano when it decided to erupt and push up to the surface! Ice bergs in the south sea at the tip of South America and a sea battle with an American Man of War and escaping by the skin of their teeth. Struck by lightning and no main mast nor rudder. Doomed to sail ever eastward 5000 miles until they reach land again???
Doctor Stephen Maturin, an intelligence agent of formidable powers, is dispatched to discomfit the Napoleonic French and their allies. With him comes his particular friend, naval captain Jack Aubrey. Each of them has some successes on this long voyage--Jack takes a truly ridiculous number of prizes--but are battered by their adventures and happy to head home.I love this series so much. At this point,the continued travails of the Surprise's crew, captain, and surgeon are as comforting and interesting as hearing about my home town.
The first book by O'Brian that I read -- or 12 pages anyway. Then I put the book down, went back to the bookstore and bought the first five books in his Aubrey/Maturin series. A whole new world of pleasure opened up fifteen years ago that still satisfies today.My favorite section of the book narrates Stephen Maturin's journey across the high Andes of Peru in the company of a naturalist of Incan descent.
The one with Volcanoes and icebergs. Jack and Stephen get soundly mangled between the battles and the frostbite. Lots of chase and be chased. Plus, some intrigue in Peru, lots of cool animals for Stephen, and plenty of prize money.

Better; much better. Still did a ten-page data dump before starting the story, but at least there was a story. Good characterization. The Peruvian excursion was a welcome diversion. Volcanoes, icebergs and shipwrecks, oh my.A recurring theme is hubris, with various characters often counting on favorable outcomes only to have the cold water of reality dashed in their face.
Not to read a handful of the Aubry books is to miss visiting one of the most thoroughly realized and absorbing imaginary worlds in all of English literature. O'Brian may not be as essential to life as Shakespeare, but he makes life richer by far.
What a cracker!
In spite of the fact that I am with child to find out what's happening back at the ranch with Diana, I thoroughly enjoyed this - excellent dramatic episodes, and all the usual O'Brian side stories - natural history, medicine, social history, international relations etc etc.
As always, if my husband had given me a sideways glance as we sat relaxing and holiday-reading together in the Austrian alps, he would have seen that my face was wreathed in smiles, and, (but for goodness sake, don't tell anyone!) might also have spotted me giving the cover a surreptitious kiss when I'd finished the book.
It's a bit surprising he hadn't hit on it before this, but for the first time in the series, the undercurrent to the Aubrey-Maturin story is age and loss.
One of Austen's characters in Persuasion remarks on how a life at sea ages a man horribly.
Neither man escapes unscathed in this novel: Aubrey at least partially loses sight in one eye and Maturin several 'inconsequential' toes to frostbite.
Now it seems O'Brian's chief theme between the intelligence work and naval warfare is going to be telling the effects of time--physically and otherwise--on his two chief characters.
This trajectory affords O'Brian an opportunity to chronicle fascinating oddities of 19th century medicine, Peruvian culture, Napoleanic-era politics in South America, the flora and fauna of the High Andes, the dangers of navigating artic waters--and of course--the usual uncountable details of maritime life so lovingly described in all of O'Brian's books.
This was my second time through the book, and I think I learned more about human nature and the Napoleanic era than I did the first time I read it.
Lots of action in this one: a volcanic eruption, pirates, gales, lightning, icebergs, broadsides and chases. Wonderful book, even with the relatively dull section when Stephen is on his own in Peru.My favorite scene is when Jack and a small crew arrive in the harbour after days in a small boat, nearly dead from exposure and dehydration, and Tom Pullings very nearly does not recognize them.
The Wine Dark Sea, book number 16 of the Aubrey-Maturin series starts with a chase, ends with a chase and has the usual excitement and intrigue in between.
The HMS Surprise voyages to Peru, where Maturin hopes to help the independence movement of Peru.
He makes a land journey from Lima to Valparaiso in Chile, through the Andes, observing the flora and fauna of South America and reunites with the Surprise.
The pace of the novel ebbs and flows with tight action scenes interspersed with Maturin's calmer reflections.
One of the better books in the series.
Sadly, only 4 more novels left in the series.
Reading Patrick O'Brian's 20-book Aubrey-Maturin series has been one of the highlights of my life.
After binging on these novels early in the series I've taken to savoring the books over the past few years, keeping my reading pace to a couple per year.
I have, this past month or so, been haunted by the guanaco - a wild cousin to the llama of which I had previously been unaware, but which suddenly started popping up everywhere.
And true to form, the South American sections here contain a surprising quantity of guanaco action.
Not that coincidental camelids are the book's chief charm, which as ever resides in the delightful pairing of bluff Jack Aubrey (good cheer, naval heroism, terrible puns) and Stephen Maturin (surgeon, natural philosopher, spy, druggie, and terrible seaman).
The action scenes are exhilarating, the humour's grand, but it's the sheer immersion in another, minutely-drawn era where he truly excels.
Not sure why, it just seemed a story that didn't go anyplace nad maybe its because Jack and Stephen need to get back to their wives in England and stop running into trouble in the South Pacific and South America.
I do still give it 3 stars because even though the story wasn't as good as past ones, I still enjoyed the writing and the realism of what it seems to be like to be on a ship of sail in the early 1800s Napoleonic era.
I don't know why I have such a thing for this genre of books...
As I stagger past the 3/4 mark of this enormous series of books I am struck by the observation that I am more interested in Maturin than Aubrey. Really though, it's being more interested in what's going on on land than on ship - which is the complete opposite of what I would have said in the first quarter of the series. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/89...
It is complex and subtle, perhaps very slightly reminiscent in some ways of William Golding’s Rites Of Passage, and one of the satisfying joys of O’Brian’s writing.Patrick O'Brian is steeped in the period of the early 19th Century and his knowledge of the language, manners, politics, social mores and naval matters of the time is deep and wide.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
I kept waiting for the story to start. Eventually it ended. O’Brian doesn’t work for me. Obviously, I am in a minority. I liked the film of Master & Commander. But such few books as I have read have not engaged me.
And of course our heroes have aged a bit, but not much; for several books now Jack and Stephen are referred to in ways that suggest the onset of late middle age, but what exactly this means is never quite clear.
Being genuine in this world seems to count for very little unless you have the capability to back it up.Given the constant level of contempt aimed at Dutourd throughout, I wonder if it’s possible to salvage a consistent political perspective from these books.
This is perhaps my favourite of the series so far, being mainly set on the sea and with plenty of mishap and adventure to satisfy my sense of fun.
Captain Aubrey is wounded (again), Doctor Maturin has to amputate his own toes with a chisel, and the Surprise - the poor old Surprise - is battered from bow sprit to mizzen mast by Volcanic eruption, ice bergs and electrical storms.
If that is not enough to make you want to pick up this book, then you deserve to be put ashore on the next desolate island the ship passes and be left to contemplate your foolishness.
I saw "Master and Commander" a few years ago and loved it, and have Mr. O'Brian on my "to-read" list.
All this playing out in the same general time frame as "Vanity Fair".Moving on with some library reading before going to work.
It's the credit music for the TV mini-series "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy".- Apparently one could get one's "nose out of joint" back in the early 19th century!
I've read a number of outstanding books set in that time: "Blood Meridian", "East Lynne", "Vanity Fair", "Northanger Abbey", "Lonesome Dove".
I hope to read more of these but there are SO MANY books on my list!
This novel concludes the arc begun in the 13th book in the Aubrey-Maturin series, The Thirteen Gun Salute and continues with The Nutmeg of Consolation, and The Truelove.
This is an exciting addition to O'Brian's canon, loaded with intrigue and action.
A volcanic eruption at sea, an encounter with black-flag pirates, and scientific exploration in the high Andes mountains in Peru and Chile, a trip around Cape Horn and fighting with a heavy American frigate all conspire to Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin on the go and at the top of their game.
I can't recommend this wonderful series of historical fiction enough!

Probably my least favorite in the series since Far Side of the World—but that could just have been the distracted state I’ve been in while reading it. It was very focused on Stephen through the first two-thirds, before shifting back to Jack a little. Just seemed to lack some of the pizzazz of earlier installments, although it made me laugh out loud several times.
At last some movement in O'Brien's roman d'ocean, with the characters entering new territory of the globe and in their lives: these superheroes of the long 18th Century begin to show their mortality. (The poignancy in Maturin's observation that a young Andean guide had paused discreetly to allow him to keep pace: so sharp that one thinks the same revelation had flashed once upon the author).
I found this to be one of the most exciting of the Aubrey Maturin novels.
Extraordinary. Volcanoes and Icebergs.
This man vs nature adventure, replete with exotic foreign lands and natural disasters, is every bit the ancient Greek drama its title implies.
Hardly anyone minds this except possibly New Yorker book critic James Wood, who as I recall once dismissed the series as mere genre fiction; most of us are pleased by the novels’ wide scope of reference (shipboard life in the age of sail, military action, natural philosophy, political intrigue), are no more displeased by the fact that the characters inevitably live to see another day than we are when the same thing occurs for a favored detective in mystery fiction, and are content to see the characters’ considerable skills challenged time and again.In this novel, they and their shipmates are nearly wrecked by a vividly depicted, emerging undersea volcano; face danger in a secret mission to aid an emerging independence movement in Peru; and are then mostly dismasted by cannon fire and a lightning strike amid bitter cold in the Southern Ocean.
