https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6101589-amberwell
I kind of wanted to punch out the parents, who really did their children--especially their daughters--a disservice.
So it was really interesting seeing what life brought to their five children, and what they made of their lives, especially when hard times hit ...
Not that life is all rainbows and sunshine here--WWII, not to mention the fraught family dynamics, both have a real effect on the characters' lives.While this book isn't nearly as heart-wrenching as some WWII era books--it felt a little more like a cozy read, with most of the deaths and trauma taking place with a little distance--I really liked that it was realistic, both about the effects of the family's dysfunctions ((view spoiler)[those two parents!!
There’s a period between the world wars that is widely regarded by anglophiles and other sentimentalists as a golden era (for a certain class of English gentry, at least)—a time when families with land still had enough money, and enough servants disposed to serve, that they could lead lives of beauty and elegant idleness.
Her writing is sweet and placid, but are we really to consider it the golden age it appears to be?Amberwell is an estate in southern Scotland that has been inhabited by the Ayrton family for generations, each generation adding to or enhancing the property.
How lovely...lovely estate, lovely children, lovely descriptions...
I escaped to my favorite place, Britain, with my favorite characters, children, made possible by my new favorite author, D.E. Stevenson.
The novel revolves around the Ayrton family.
Will and Marion Ayrton seem to have one raison detre: to enhance their Scottish estate, while adhering to the social mores of the time.
I enjoyed Amberwell much more than I expected.
This novel so reminds me of Richmal Crompton and her ability to write about children as individuals.
My visit to Amberwell was a happy one...I just wished it could have been longer.
Another delightful book from Stevenson-this was so heart-warming! I really enjoyed Nell's character and I am assuming there is a sequel so we know if she finds love at last. The siblings are so close even though as adults they have moved apart-great ending!
I liked the sound of Amberwell and decided to give Stevenson another chance to impress me.Amberwell is the name of a house and estate in the south west of Scotland, home to Mr and Mrs Ayrton and their five children: Roger, Tom, Connie, Nell and Anne.
Roger and Tom go off to war while Connie and Anne (under very different circumstances) both leave home, with only the middle sister, Nell, left behind to care for Amberwell.
This wasn't as "cozy" as some of the other DE Stevenson books I've read but instead it felt like a realistic view into life during the war. There was tragedy but also triumph. I loved it.
It's very British and cozy and somewhat twee - - definitely a comfort read for me but I am sure that many of my friends would not enjoy it.
This is my first Stevenson and in the early chapters I wasn't sure it would be for me - the early years where we learn the lay of the land through very young children's eyes was a bit too cute at times but once the children are adults and war (WWII) is looming the storyline picks up.
I'm definitely going to look for more by Stevenson.
Another thoroughly enjoyable read from Stevenson. A bit more serious in tone than some of her other books but still very typical. I have read enough of Stevenson's novels by now to feel I am treading familiar ground each time I pick up one of her books. Perhaps, at this point, that is part of the appeal and why I keep reading. I liked how Stevenson made a nod to her famous lighthouse building ancestors by having one of the characters see and talk about the Bell Rock Lighthouse.
As with all D E Stevenson's novels I've read so far, this was exquisitely written, with wonderfully rounded characters. The story covers the ups and downs of a well-to-do family before, during and after WWII and, apart from a rather slow beginning, I found it positively enchanting. Just what appeals to me.
After finishing this book, I was impatient to find out what happened to the family next, and went on to listen to the sequel, Summerhills, as an audio book.(view spoiler)[ A particularly strong element of the book is the portrayal of Anne's life after she hastily marries a man who isn't of the right class, and is cast off by her parents as a result.
During the war she works on the land and is bullied by her husband, Martin - this is all too realistic and quite painful to read.
Sometimes books like this are just the ticket when you want a break from more intense reading.
I enjoy these tales of family life in Great Britain in the years around WWII.
This story centers on the family who live at Amberwell, a beautiful estate in southern Scotland.
The writer is particularly good at capturing the children's perspective of life at this magical place.Recommended for anyone who enjoys reading about British upper class society and the social changes brought about by the Great War. Very G rated.There is a sequel which I will also read.
The story opens and develops slowly, centering on the five children, particularly two of the three daughters, Nell and Anne.
Nell and Anne are very close, shy, and afraid of their parents who never explain anything and are not to be questioned.
They have no other playmates and are educated at home by Miss Clarke, who tries to do her best for them and urges her parents to send them to school.
The war upends the society that estates like Amberwell had been built upon with consequences for the entire Ayrton family.
This is a somber story of five children raised by Nannie and ignored by their parents on a Scottish estate, Amberwell (by no means a palace but it was definitely 'a place').
There's an unattachment I find unfathomable.Roger evaluates his father with these chilling words: He doesn't love me because he doesn't know me.
Two adolescent sisters cling to each other and to their isolation, acting like socially awkward home schoolers.
These books are pleasant, especially if you love all things Scottish, and they don't ask much of the reader.
Learning the Scottish phrase when a loved one leaves: Haste ye back!
The ending was very abrupt, and it felt like entire book took a detour at the end.
I liked the little girl building the bridge to her grandmother, but felt the denouement needed more.
It felt as if the author ran out of steam or story.
The children were mostly well drawn, especially the youngest girls, but many other characters felt like stock characters from a family drama.
I like old-fashioned stories about families, they are a comfort in a world such as ours has become.
If you are looking for an old-fashioned comfort read, you could do worse.
They are rather the opposite of boring.Amberwell is the story of the five Ayrton children growing up at the titular family estate: The eldest boys, Roger and Tom, and their younger half-siblings, Connie, Nell, and Anne.
They reach adulthood right around the beginning of the second World War, and they take on new roles, especially shy Nell, who has to learn how to run Amberwell in wartime.
This story is a little more intense than other of Stevenson's novels that I've read, but still engrossing.
The only thing is that there are some ends left dangling...I see there is a second book, but it's not currently in print.
Warning! Even when an author is one of your comfort reads, it is a mistake to pick one of her books for a few chapters at midnight. You will read the entire book and be very sleepy the next day! In this instance, I had to reread the whole series...https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...
Amberwell, an estate on the west coast of Scotland, has been in the Ayerton family for several generations passing from father to son in an unbroken line.
There's Roger, the heir, who loves Amberwell with all his heart; Tom, who wants to join the navy; Cynthia, beautiful and shallow who knows how to please; Nell, sensitive and shy and Anne, the free spirited baby of the family.
When the world is plunged into the darkness of war, Amberwell becomes a beacon for the Ayerton children.I liked this book well enough.
I enjoyed this book so much and flew right through it!I had read this book once before but hadn't reviewed it.'Amberwell' is the title and the theme of this novel set in England that includes the years of the Second World War. The estate, Amberwell, is written about nostalgically and the children who grow up there never stop longing to return 'home to Amberwell'.And yet, although the house and gardens of Amberwell are such a draw, the family relationships there are a mix at best.
Their less-than-sympathetic-or-even-loving parents hold sway over the family and their complete control has its' effect on some of the children (the two older boys, Roger and Thomas, do not seem as affected as the girls are by parental neglect).I was so drawn into this story and the lives of the characters!
A gentle read, not particularly compelling, perhaps the equivalent of watching a nice family saga on PBS. The main character Nell looks after the family estate called Amberwell in Scotland very capably while her brothers go off to fight in World War Two. Sometimes one needs a book like this when one is trying to relax, as it soothes and comforts without creating any mental mayhem. And yes, I will read the sequel to find out if Nell winds up happily married, although I suspect that she does, just because it is that kind of a book.
2.5 stars, I rounded to 3My first Stevenson and my first read on a Kindle. It may be my last for both!
Re-read as audiobook.
The novel begins with five children being brought up on the family estate of Amberwell. Their life seems idyllic, but as time goes on we see how terribly neglected they are by their parents and how hungry they all are for love. As World War II arrives, each goes their own way. Some make poor choices and some suffer through no fault of their own. All of them grow. In spite of the episodes of heartache, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
This is another wonderful book by D. E. Stevenson. The characters were filled out extremely well. One could just see the people and the situation they were in. That is due to the skillful descriptive element of the author. I was so involved with the story and the people in it, that it took me by surprise when the book ended. My head was yelling, " NO, I need to know more of what happens to these people!"
The previous D.E. Stevenson books which I have read were humorous, which this one isn't. It's an enjoyable story of a family, set on the west coast of Scotland, beginning after the Great War and ending after the end of World War 2, by which time the five children of the Ayrton family are grown up. They've all been damaged by their upbringing by cold unloving parents but the house, Amberwell, is the place that they all love. Comfort reading, despite the war worries.
Another D.E. Stevenson favorite...starts slowly but picks up with a picture of upper middleclass English country life. Gives a picture of the transition of life in England before and after WW2...affecting its culture and traditions to the core.
I'm trying to collect all of D.E. Stevenson's books, and this is my lastest addition.
The story opens and develops slowly, centering on the five children, particularly two of the three daughters, Nell and Anne.
Nell and Anne are very close, shy, and afraid of their parents who never explain anything and are not to be questioned.
They have no other playmates and are educated at home by Miss Clarke, who tries to do her best for them and urges her parents to send them to school.
The war upends the society that estates like Amberwell had been built upon with consequences for the entire Ayrton family.
Three sisters (Connie, Nell and Anne) with 2 older half-brothers (Roger and Tom) live in the house that is not a home, and the family is extremely dysfunctional; the girls are completely closed off to their aristocratic, very selfish, detached parents and hardly know them.
When Anne was estranged from the family by her marriage to an unsuitable scholar, the rift left a “hole” in the family, a feeling of loss, that Nell, in particular, grieved and ached to heal.This is a story of family bonds, children who love one another but lack individual personality until they have a chance, each in turn, to redeem themselves apart from their parents and each other, to form their own values, and to find and follow their own dreams.The book’s language was simple and slow, as was the writing style.
It's a perfect little hug of a book (with tea and cookies after), and even though my usual reading is typically high fantasy or middle school childrens' lit, I couldn't get enough of Stevenson's world, and read far more than my usual allotment each night, finishing it up in 4 nights' worth of bedtime reading.The plot is a bit rangy and I wrestled with the change in viewpoint characters, but (without spoiling anything) I think the shift makes you empathize more, so it could very well be a clever authorial decision.
This was a digital book that came up on Bookbub one day for $.99.
I hadn’t encountered this author previously so didn’t know what to expect.
I started reading it but was anticipating disaster or abuse occurring to one of the children, as is often the case in modern fiction.
It must be obvious that I wasn’t familiar with the author’s style and subject matter.
Anyways, I left it alone for a month or two, while I read a few other of her books, then came back to it this past week.
I had to start again at the beginning as I’d forgotten many of the details.
