https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123671.Doctor_Mirabilis
Besides, I was expecting it to be science fiction (because it's by James Blish) and was frightfully disappointed to find that it wasn't.This time, I could read it and appreciate it for what it is: an extremely well-written historical novel that transcends the genre in much the same way as the Thomas Cromwell books of Hilary Mantel.
It is a novelization of the life of Roger Bacon, the great mediaeval scholar-monk and proto-scientist who was a contemporary of Albertus Magnus and Thomas Aquinas, but whose interests and concerns were centuries ahead of theirs.
Bacon's life wasn't very eventful: born to a landed family at Ilchester in Somerset, England, he became a student at Oxford.
Doctor Mirabilis would later be published in the SF Gateway collection which had as its mission the creation of "a library of the greatest SF [science fiction] ever written, chosen with the help of today's leading SF writers and editors.
Only Blish remarks in his foreword that he "must not pretend the book he writes...is a fictionalized biography." Blish would go on to further disabuse us of the notion that this is history: "What follows is a fiction." He would, admittedly, try to remain true to the events of the 13th century and strive to capture some of the original Middle English syntax.
James Blish was a science-fiction writer of great verbal skill and diverse interests, who in my opinion found it hard to keep a book or a character together (about half of each book of his Cities in Flight series is one of my favorite SF novels), but here, working from scraps of biography and a vivid dream-recreation of medieval life, he was mostly on a roll.
(The parallels with Riddley Walker, including the rediscovery of gunpowder in a dream about a "still unbroken" man standing between two shores "at the heart of an explosion," are especially interesting because in most ways the two books couldn't be more different.) I think Blish may be indebted to C.S. Lewis's great non-fiction book 
This is clearly Blish's masterpiece, and it's a shame that it will probably remain out of print and largely unread because it is not science fiction (at least, not in the usual sense). The historical detail and the summing up of Roger Bacon's thoughts on science, religion, and other matters are quite well-wrought and fascinating. This is better than any of Blish's science fiction I have read (by far); maybe he should have produced more general fiction or historical novels.
I only knew of James Blish as a sci-fi author, but this book reveals him to be a scholar and man of letters, of a type no longer common. His novel based on the life of Francis Bacon was a rich delight to read. The Middle English-inspired vernacular takes some getting used to, but beyond that the story turns out to be moving and beautifully told.
A very odd, yet remarkable book. Half theological/philosophical treatise. Half medieval history. It rambles and meanders and never quite wraps itself up, simply fading away at the end. But something about it grabbed me. Not even remotely for everyone, but possibly worth a try.
The story of Roger Bacon, a thirteenth century Franciscan monk, who in many ways laid the foundation of the scientific method.
At times (23 years) held in solitary confinement, or isolation from all, due to his beliefs and his rigid adherence to them in face of threats from the Church, he never-the-less published a whole series of books and arguments that laid the basis for many scientific inventions.
In many ways a difficult book that at times lapses into old English and Latin that makes the plot very difficult to follow.
The centers of power were Oxford, Rome (of course) and Paris and the story oscillates between all three.
First in the 'After Such Knowledge' sequence, this is a densely written historical novel about Roger Bacon, the 13th century philosopher/scientist and Franciscan monk.
Although most of it is imaginative extrapolation, because the facts are few and far between, Blish does manage to evoke the whole attitude of the time especially among the scholars and clerics.Due to his combative character and unwillingness to compromise, Bacon comes into conflict with an increasingly dictatorial church authority and pays the price with the loss of his freedom and ability to work.

The book wasn't as good as I hoped. It seemed slow in the beginning, picked up a bit toward the middle, & then moved down toward the end, where in the last pages it attained what I'd been looking for all book. For someone interested in Bacon, I think the book is good. For someone unfamiliar with him, perhaps this book isn't the greatest introduction. Still, it was good enough that I kept at it til the end.
James Blish is so overlooked. I like this book because every cover I've seen makes it seem like Roger Bacon, at some point in the novel, is going to whip out a ray gun and go hog wild on some legates. It doesn't happen. No, when they hassle him he pretty much has to just live in prison and suffer for an extremely long time. Sorry Roger Bacon.
A very entertaining novel about the life of 13th century alchemist and philosopher Roger Bacon .
8897
Grade F. Book R1. Boring.
