https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32768522-carry-on
I think it'll become one of those books that I'll love more and more with every day that passes.
And I also loved that Rainbow could manage all that world building in just one book :).
I'd definetly read more about this world.Okay, okay, but now let's talk about Simon and Baz TOGETHER.
-----------------------19/10: CRYING TEARS OF JOY BECAUSE I FINALLY HAVE THE TIME TO READ THIS ONE.-----------------------BEFORE READING IT:A SIMON SNOW BOOK.
"It has just as much kissing and talking as you’d expect from a Rainbow Rowell story — but far, far more monsters."
Every little thing about this story (the setting, characters, etc.) can easily be traced back to Harry Potter and Hogwarts and EVERYTHING IS THE SAME.
Plus, the characters are just plain boring and annoying for the most part.
I couldn't find anything enjoyable about this in the 163 pages I read, so I'm going to put this down and never pick it up again.Extended Review (taking comments into account)I am aware that this is SUPPOSED to be a Harry Potter parody/fanfic/whateverthefuck, but that doesn't in any way mean I have to like it.
Also, like I said above, IT'S JUST PLAIN NOT GOOD.
VIDEO REVIEW - http://bit.ly/1RLgYvMNew addition to my "all time favorites" list. Possibly new #1 all time favorite. I ADORED this book. Funny and cute and clever with a cool plot and fun world and plenty of squee-inducing moments. I've read the whole book through twice, going on my third read. And there are some chapters I've read at least six or seven times. AND THE BOOK HAS BEEN OUT A WEEK. I'm obsessed. I put the book down and all I want is to pick it up again. Aleister Crowley, I'm living a charmed life.
4.5, I feel like if I give it more thought it'll be a full on 5 stars. I just felt like the beginning portion of the book dragged a bit. While this book definitely had elements that we're similar to other fantasy stories, it had it's own refreshing style. The characters we're brilliant (as most of Rainbow's characters are) and the story itself was fun, mysterious, and exciting!
Does this count as Harry Potter fan fiction? Sirius question.
✨ I can't walk up the stairs without wheezing but I would very literally fistfight the fucking moon for Simon Snow✨ actually, if I loved him any more, I’d be Baz Pitch✨ listen, I have an extreme weakness for characters who are such trashboy dorks their guardian angel probably facepalms himself a lot✨ but I also relate to Simon because I, too, am irresponsible and aggressively bisexual and I will always assume that you hate me unless you explicitly tell me you love me and then periodically remind me ✨ here's a little [ (:: 💖::) ] bandaid for his little heart I hope he's doing his best even though we're all doomed✨ most of all, I hope he knows that he wasn't a fraud magician.
It’s so much fun.And you know what’s surprising?
It puts the reader in such a wonderful mood and let me tell you that, even if the romance takes time to appear, when it does, it’s hard not to notice it.As in, you will LOVE Simon & Baz.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
It's just too meta, man!Besides the ludicrous premise of a fictional Harry Potter (can you even have a fictional fanfic of a character who is fiction in the first place?
It is all sorts of ludicrous to read a book about a character who is a parody of another character.
I don't remember much of them at all besides the fact that Simon is the fictional Harry Potter in the Fangirl universe.
This may be a little controversial, but I am largely against slash fiction because I feel they're disrespectful to gays, to rewrite a character's sexuality just for the purpose of titillation.
4.5 Really really enjoyed it
Thanks God I'm already gay, because after reading this I would probably want to turn into one.
4/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“You were the sun, and I was crashing into you.”This book was MAGIC. Literal magic. I enjoyed it tremendously. The beginning, though, was a chaos for me. It started off too strong, with too much information thrown at me, with no concept. The story started off from Simon's 8th year in Watford. So, there were many things that had happened in the previous years that the author tried to explain briefly. The first 100 pages were very confusing and disorienting for me, I was trying to
Baz would be having a field day with all this, if he were here—it’s their last year at the Watford School of Magicks, and Simon’s infuriating nemesis didn’t even bother to show up.I have to admit, I should have read this book before Fangirl I would have a better understanding of Cath's obsession with this world and I would have grasped the meaning behind her fanfics.
I was one of the people who did, knowing I would read this book next.
I have read three books of yours, and all of them got 4 starts from me.
Fighting him is like fighting off sleep when you’re long past the edge of exhaustion.”And we start this book in Simon’s point of view, freaking out over Baz’s absence (I was honestly smiling every time Snow mentioned him).I especially loved how Simon was secretly wishing for Baz not to arrive before the start of term (“Nobody wants to miss the welcome-back picnic on the Great Lawn tonight.
”You’re so alive, Simon Snow.You got my share of it.”This is probably going to be the most incoherent review I’ve ever written but I just can’t seem to be able to contain myself!!!
That nothing can hurt him, not even me.That Simon Snow is alive.And I’m hopelessly in love with him.””It dawned on me during our fifth year.
=))) Plus I loved how Penny thought about Simon.
But since she was a coward and ran away they never even got a chance to think about it!All told, I really loved this book and I never ever wanted it to end!
Yup, I'm totally on board the "I just want to re-read this book forever" train.I can't even explain it.
I went in to this book with a healthy amount of skepticism (mostly an attitude like "but why does this book exist?") and I was TOTALLY put in my place.
This book is perfect.It's everything fanfic-loving adolescent Kristina ever wanted out of a book.
And for all its impossible ridiculousness, it also somehow manages to be a surprisingly great book.5 stars, 100%, would read again (and again and again and again).
Simon + Baz forever.
One word: BRILLIANT.
Worst period of my life.) and years in which it seems like the only thing I could say was "more books.", but I never stopped.
And well, by now I can usually tell, after 50-100 pages, whether I'll like the book I'm reading or not.
And someone has to.”"I'll just tell you that this doesn't feel like a book at all.
There's not any character development when it comes to Simon's sexuality or personal growth and he didn't even think much about his relationship with Baz. It didn't feel natural to me.Is there anything I actually liked?
It makes you want to protect him even though he’s doing all the actual saving.Yet to Simon, Baz is this immaculate, flawless, and well-mannered guy who is everything he isn’t.
Handsome, smart, and cool, Simon thinks Baz always gets what he wants.
And it’s exactly like that with how Rainbow Rowell gave direction to this book.
As an LGBT reviewer, I am more than happy that Rowell was able to penetrate the mainstream community with gay characters like Simon and Baz. I know that there have been successful attempts by several authors, but not to this extent.
Oh god, everything leading up to that point (Baz's and Simon's first kiss) was perfect.
(view spoiler)[ Simon having a tail and wings...I don't know, it is so fantastic and cute and I'm totally swooning - over Simon, and Baz and both of them together.
(hide spoiler)]After that kiss I just wanted them to be happy.
So were Baz, Simon and Ebb. Agatha seemed totally unnecessary for the plot and the whole novel.
I really really hope that she is not done writing about Simon and Baz.Find more of my books on Instagram
People might disagree with me on this but I feel that if you haven't read Harry Potter, this book will make no sense to you.
After having read this book I still feel like I don’t understand him at all.
Overall, I didn’t care about what happened to him and thus I lacked engagement in the story.I did really like Baz’s character, he was multi-dimensional and layered and he did make me swoon a little at the beginning.
It felt like the only reason she was there, was because Rainbow Rowell wanted to have an original trio, just like in Harry Potter.
I think this may be because, although this very obviously draws a lot of inspiration from Harry Potter, I couldn't stop my brain from constantly drawing parallels throughout the entire time reading this.
However, I think I just couldn't get fully drawn into this story with my mind so switched on about Harry Potter - I just wasn't able to fully immerse myself in the world and connect with the characters as they are (by this I mean thinking of Baz as Baz, rather than constantly think Baz=Draco).Also, I'm so here for Baz & Simon <3
Because I really hate Harry Potter rip-offs usually (like The Iron Trial soooo didn't work for me) and I was also curious to see how Rainbow Rowell would pull of a fantasy book when she's famous for her contemporaries.
BECAUSE I HAVE A LOT OF LOVE RIGHT NOW AND I WANNA EXPLODE.THINGS I LOVED AN AWFUL LOT:• One thing I noticed very much was how easily and comfortably Rainbow Rowell wrote it with a British flair!
They hate each other, but Baz is the first to admit how much he actually loves Simon.
Leslie, nor is it Cath’s fanfiction, “Carry On, Simon.” This book is RAINBOW’S take on the characters and the story, and both of those previously mentioned versions presumably have different stories and endings than the version we get to read here.Now that we’re all on the same page, what this book is is wonderful.
It’s like Pride and Prejudice but with a Chosen One and a sad vampire instead of a really rich guy and a smart sassy lady.For those of you worried about not having read any of her other books, specifically Fangirl (which has Simon Snow excerpts from the Gemma T.
Watford and the surrounding World of Mages is like a valentine for those of us who still can’t let go of the Wizarding World—and damn anyone who tries to make us.I didn’t care for the romance aspects of this book, but I rarely do anyway so I just kinda skimmed past them.
I know that romance and slash are kinda the main points of fanfiction, but the whole hurt/comfort tag really isn’t for me (Sorry, An Archive of Our Own).
And that’s where Rowell shines; this isn’t about romance, it’s not about magic, it’s about imperfect people and how their sagas overlap and interconnect.
not only in name but in ACTION (hello indian hermione and gay draco)- simon/harry actually expresses his annoyance at having to spend his summers in abusive situations- mage/dumbledore has an explanation for being gone at inopportune times (in this book he's in charge of the whole magical world)- simon/harry isn't stuck with the "perfect" woman and instead we get to see his relationship grow with his chosen significant other (fuck ginny/agatha honestly)- TRAUMA IS ADDRESSED!!!i mean holy shit.
harry was in an abusive situation his entire childhood.
he is charged with having to defeat all that is evil once he escapes said abusive situation.
Never thought I'd DNF a Rainbow Rowell novel.
It was my 2nd attempt and as much as I wanted to love it, since I've adored her other books, it just wasn't for me.I couldn't have cared less about the characters or storyline.
It felt a bit all over the place, like reading the last instalment in a series.
It was like reading Harry Potter fan fiction (and not a good one).
But it's a fully-fledged novel and it honestly didn't read like one.
It was so frustrating to read.
Everything that I loved about Rainbow Rowell's books (i.e. writing, characters) was missing.
4.5 StarsThis book is by no means perfect and I don't think it's for everyone.
This book was not what I expected in the best way possible.If you're anything like me and prefer character based novels over plot based ones, I think you'd enjoy this, because this book is all about the characters.
There were so many fantastic relationships between the characters, but above all else, I LOVED the romance.
The romance tore my heart to pieces, and I don't think I'll ever recover, but it was absolutely perfect.
Also:I never thought I'd say this after Twilight, but this book actually made me like vampires again.I just loved it.
I absolutely loved it.
I DON'T KNOW YOU GUYS. It took a while for anything to happen and then everything happened all at once, so much so that it was actually confusing. Like, I still don't understand what happened????? I shipped Simon and Baz SO HARD THO. But other than that and an exciting build up towards the end (that ended up being disappointing because I was confused), it was just okay :/ SUCH DISAPPOINTMENT.
4.5/5 starsI don't think this was *quite* 5 star for me, but it was pretty dang close.
If I think about it more I may end up moving it up.SO MANY FEELS SO MANY.Honestly this was so fantastic.
It perfectly blended the magical elements with the romance elements (if u didn't know....LGBTQ REPRESENTATION WHAT WHAT I see u Simon and Baz) and didn't feel like it was trying too hard EVER.I loved the magic system and how different it was and also the characters and just AHHH.
I would totally read more Simon Snow books...or fan fiction....JUST MORE.Just so wonderful.
I'm so glad I read this.
When I was reading Fangirl I couldn't have cared less about Simon and Baz. For me they were merely a quirky Harry Potter parody and a plot device to develop Cath and Levi's relationship.This was the mindset that I had while going into this book.
You gotta love Rainbow for that.In the beginning I couldn't help but draw parallels to Harry Potter, but at some point I stopped thinking about Simon as "Harry" or Baz as "Draco" or Watford as "Hogwarts", but they became just Simon, Baz and Watford.
I can totally relate why Cath ships Simon and Baz!All in all I'm amazed how Rainbow Rowell managed to pull this off.
Here is my review of Fangirl, in its entirety:RAINBOW, YOUR NEXT BOOKS NEEDS TO BE ABOUT GAY WIZARDS. PLS N THX.It's like all my dreams are coming truuuuue!!!!
