https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18279.Phenomenology_of_Perception
All hitherto existing models of perception are false.
From the outset empiricism would do violence by mis-describing its most basic datum, the act of perceiving.
Idealism would come about to try and correct the absurdities that arise when empiricism is taken as doctrine.
However, by failing to provide an alternate account of perception, idealism left the crucial point unchallenged.
There are no atoms of perception.
Perception is already a whole.
That, I think, is the crucial point, and from there...
Most profound, far-reaching book of philosophy in the past hundred years or so.
This is one of those books that makes GR's star system seem pretty ridiculous (sorry!).
While reading the section about perceiving the body, I had an experience for which I have no words, but that perhaps comes closest to what certain mystics would call enlightenment.
For several moments, I didn't want to read or touch my coffee, because I wanted to fully digest this feeling.
The main reason this book loses a star (down to a mere four) is because in the later chapters, when Merleau-Ponty goes into human perception of the social, he lets his marxian sympathies get in the way of his phenomenological method, and this weakens his arguments on these questions considerably.
What is empiricism, etc.
Sarah Bakewell speaks highly of it in her At The Existentialist Café: Freedom, Being, and Apricot Cocktails —a very worthy book and far more readable than the present text.From Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: “[Merleau-Ponty’s] constant points of historical reference are Descartes, Kant, Hegel, and Marx.
The characteristic approach of Merleau-Ponty’s theoretical work is his effort to identify an alternative to intellectualism or idealism, on the one hand, and empiricism is or realism, on the other, by critiquing their common presupposition of a ready-made world and failure to account for the historical and embodied character of experience.”
I have to suspect that this is probably the most thrilling and exciting book I have ever read, in any genre, in any format, on any subject matter.
Just an astounding book.
You suddenly realize that so much of the topics we typically preoccupy ourselves with are hardly even apprehended correctly by our own senses.
Instead, Merleau-Ponty proves that even when we are gazing directly at what's before us  we never truly see it.In the course of our normal daily routines, we always skip right over the hesitation which we should experience.
TPoP is certainly all that I could have asked for or desired.
Part three then goes on to incorporate the first two parts into a restatement of the cogito ("The fundamental truth is certainly that “I think,” but only on condition of understanding by this that “I belong to myself " in being in the world."), and to reorient ourselves (and our perception) in a temporal flow (yes, M-P attempts to redefine time), and then eventually closing on a truly triumphant note.I'll admit, some of the stuff M-P tackled towards the end of part two and the beginning of part three went over my head; that's okay, I always aim to take what I can away from these texts and hopefully revisit them renewed some later day to gain more from them.
His work is carried forward in the writing of Alva Noë and others, and I do think that the ways that Merleau-Ponty gets updated and the ways that he more-or-less stays the same are pretty important to the reading of history of philosophy of mind.One of the things that really struck me in reading Merleau-Ponty was the realization of how extensive his impact is on what is easily just written off as an "analytic" philosophy of mind.
Writers who focus on the debates in philosophy of mind are still unable to shake the influence of Merleau-Ponty, and as someone very interested in that discussion, it was pretty incredible to look at what has stayed the same, in many ways, in contemporary study.There are a lot of good ways to enter into this book, as a reader.

In some ways, I see this book as a sequel to Schopenhauer's World of Will and Representation (a book that takes even longer to read).
Most importantly for me, Merleau-Ponty is revising the Cartesian subjectivity, which is the foundation for much of Western philosophy, science, and comparative work -- and also the root of many ideologies and problems we've struggled with for several centuries.
As the world becomes more "globalized" and interrelated, it will be important that new approaches to science, theory, and cultural studies start with this revised Cartesian subject.

ve yani abi size bikaç sene verdim belki bizi şu bedene bağlı sınırlamalardan kurtarırsınız diye. hollywood bilkmkurgularından öteye taşıyamadınız. hala bedenime ve yeteneklerime bağlıyım, seçtirtmediniz ki raftan beğendiğimi alayım. ayrıca kan, kemik, damar falan seviyorum. alakasız. Atın artık goodreadsten beni atın. selamlar merleau ponty.

Γι’ αυτό ο Μερλώ-Ποντύ, πρωτοπόρος εδώ, δίνει τεράστιο βάρος στο σώμα και τη σωματικότητα: το σώμα μου κινείται και μετέχει στον ορατό κόσμο, η όραση είναι μια κίνηση που επεκτείνει το σώμα μέσω της πράξης του οράν, το σώμα βλέπει και βλέπεται.
Το έργο τέχνης θεωρείται ένα σημείο που μεταφράζει και εκφράζει το είναι-στον-κόσμο.Με τη βοήθεια των πρακτικών της τέχνης (ο Σεζάν περισσότερο, αλλά και ο Προυστ, αναφέρονται συχνά στο βιβλίο) και της μορφικής ψυχολογίας, ο Μερλώ-Ποντύ θέλει να ξεφύγει από τα έως τότε φιλοσοφικά διλήμματα (εμπειρισμός ή νοησιαρχία, ύλη ή μορφή, υποκείμενο ή αντικείμενο).
But, in fact, I believe this is the sort of book where you DO NOT have to read every sentence and chapter.]Merleau-Ponty's classic text is a mixture of old and new.
Furthermore, by rehashing traditional themes, and tossing them about, he often gets entangled in some old Cartesian snares.Despite these problems - which are mostly quibbles - the book is well worth a read.
Perhaps it will be forgotten, or treated as an "in-between", second-rate work of those years, relegated in the shadow of Heidegger and Sartre?Or perhaps someone, with less Hegelian baggage, will come along, one day, and express the same thing - the fundamental bodily-phenomenological insight - more clearly, for a new audience?
This work is - together with Nietzsche's "Beyond Good and Evil" and Heidegger's "Being and Time" - a perfect cure for anyone who has overdosed on abstract thinking.
Its message has yet to be heard by a wider audience and is bound to gain new appreciation as the currently dominant mode of thinking begins to falter.
A thorough background in philosophy might be required to understand much of what Merleau-Ponty writes, but, then again, if you have not already spent a substantial amount of time in the realm of rational thinking, then it is unlikely that you require the relief that this work can bring.
This should required reading for humans. and robots.
Overall, Heidegger broke much more new ground in philosophy compared to Merleau-Ponty, but I feel that Merleau-Ponty importantly refines and elaborates on Heidegger, as well as crucially makes Heidegger's philosophy naturalistic and scientifically plausible.My favorite chapters are "The Body in Its Sexual Being", "Space", and "Freedom".
In the chapter on space, Merleau-Ponty makes the striking point that the world, which we find ourselves in, is presented by our body in continuous dynamical coupling with environmental structures since our time of birth (in other chapters, such as the one on temporality, he focuses more on our body's coupling to cultural traditions and sociality).
"Dünya düşündüğüm şey değil, yaşadığım şeydir."
4.5
Coming to Merleau-Ponty through Heidegger was a kind if shock to my system.
Merleau-Ponty wanted phenomenology to take centre stage as the main focus whereas Heidegger turned more towards ontology with phenomenology as his method.
Merleau-Ponty bequeaths us our thoughts on embodiment, which does not come into Heidegger.
Our being-in-the-world is not a dualistic relation between an objective body and disembodied consciousness; rather it is a pre-objective perspective.
I, as body-mind, am both open toward the and am part of the world.All in all, I certainly have a more robust understanding of phenomenology ala Merleau-Ponty.
This book may not interest the casual reader and involves wading through (and re-reading) dense and nuanced arguments, but for those who are curious about phenomenology or alternative approaches to psychology from the "black box" input-output processing model typified by behaviorism, this is a book well worth spending some time with.
Merleau-Ponty challenges the bifurcation of immanence and transcendence the emerged out of the Cartesian-Newtonian paradigm, such as the subject-object or mind-body divide, and carefully explores the process of time as the subject's awareness of itself as an object in the world.
Unfortunately, I am convinced that Merleau-Ponty's efforts to turn the results of his phenomenology into an ethics and a politics are less impressive and important than Heidegger's breathtakingly brilliant attempt to use phenomenology as a means to fundamental ontology.
Still, one has to admire Merleau-Ponty's command over biology and the natural sciences.
Less committed readers should turn to the final chapters of the book, where the majority of his philosophy can be found.
Most readers will find the carelessness on their behalf extremely irritating.
Along with Heidegger, Sartre, Beauvoir, and Levinas, Merleau-Ponty is an "existential phenomenologist": a philosopher concerned with the experiences that constitute human existence.
He's often overlooked in favor of Heidegger or Sartre, but this is unfair; his analysis of human embodiment not only build on theirs, but go much, much further.Phenomenology of Perception is concerned with the first-person experience of being embodied, or of having a body.
I've been slooowwly re-reading PP over the past few months.
I first read it in my first semester of grad school, before I knew anything about anything.
I haven't time to find the exact quote but somewhere in this book Merleau-Ponty - or 'Merleau-Ponty-Ponty' as I have affectionately come to think of him - states that all the best writers never read what they have written, he then goes on to do his very best at disproving this theory.
But to be fair there is some really great stuff in this book: once you get past the first couple of hundred pages and get to the chapters on space and temporality this book works as a thoroughly absorbing meditation on a unique position of viewing phenomena, and for this reason it is a valid and interesting book.
Finally finished this thing! No insightful comments at this time, but this two-month reading experience was a good one. Reading phenomenology is especially good in a variety of settings, mindsets, fevers, loud rooms...Anyone who's having trouble don't put it down. It's not really that hard to read, it just might take a while. Philosophy is metabolized slowly. (And poo poo to the reviewer who said she "read it in a few hours." A novel can be read and enjoyed in a matter of hours, but not this.)
MP is such a wonderful read. I strongly recommend this to all those who feel sth missing in Science and God.
As Jerry Fodor points out, the entire field of cognitive science, since the 1950's, is founded on the assumption that there are unconscious processes of mind determining the structures of experience.
He needs to do this because he needs to reduce, after reducing scientific claims to the life-world, internalism to externalism (or show their equivalency), because he needs to show, against Kant, how the structure of the world is not wholly mind-created, and that it emanates from the world and the body's relation to it, or whatever.
Merleau-Ponty assumes they are equivalent, because we are only fully conscious of our thought in speech (even this claim is suspect without knowing any cog-sci facts).
Pretty good—Not as original or groundbreaking as Heidegger's Being and Time in my opinion, but Merleau-Ponty does provide an important phenomenological perspective on the body and the world that Heidegger doesn't.
He would have been better off advancing the Heideggerian project with his phenomenology of perception and the body (hell, doesn’t Heidegger set the stage and even say the body is a project in need of undertaking in division one of B&T?).Finally, there is a LOT of psychology referenced in this text.
Merleau-Ponty is a philosopher of science, and is highly influenced by its criticisms from phenomenology (which is to say he sees its limitations and proper domain), while simultaneously drawing heavily from psychological studies.
I also wonder if his descriptions of the limits, and criticisms of the pretensions, of science, undermine the constant reliance upon scientific studies.
Every time through this book reveals a whole load of new insights and perspectives by which to examine the intricacies, seeming paradoxes, and beauty of the embodied experience of perception and what that means for all aspects of life.
This book will connect you to your body and your general experience of life and living through that body in ways that you could never have imagined, to the definite benefit of your quality of life and the quality of thoughts you have about your life.The book is undoubtedly dense, difficult, and sometimes impenetrable.
It requires some tough work to really parse, but doing so is entirely worth it for the perspective and appreciation it provides for how your body affects and intends perception and experiences its world.
What a remarkably profound book. It manages to both elevate and ground the field of phenomenology. Never has the ready-to-hand been made clearer for me. I will likely reread it many times again, because rarely does a book of philosophy speak so directly not just to mind and consciousness, but to that ineffable thing we humans call a heart.
