https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/955150.The_Adventures_of_Telemachus
The origins of detournement practice in dada-surrealist mythology?
Aragon was to become a key Surrealist by the time of his fantastic mysterious-ordinary essay-novel Paris Peasant (before being ejected from the group shortly after), but this 1922 short novel actually precedes the Surrealist Manifesto -- elegantly, amusingly bridging worlds.
More worlds than anticipated even, as it's also deeply postmodern, and oddly intertextual.
I know the Homeric origins, but there's an interstitial bit of 17th-century moralizing archbishop tucked into here as well, though essentially wiped back out of the framework by Aragon's hand.
Title: Les aventures de TélémaqueAuthor: Louis AragonRelease Date: September 27, 2017 [EBook #55637]Language: FrenchProduced by Laura N.R. & Marc D'Hooghe at Free Literature (online soon in an extended version,also linking to free sources for education worldwide ... MOOC's, educational materials,...) (Images generously made available by the Internet Archive.)Free download available at Project Gutenberg.I made the proofing for Free Literature and it will be published by Project Gutenberg.Images available at The University of Iowa Libraries
It speaks, indicates time, and does not understand anything about it.“Everything that is myself is incomprehensible.” Louis Aragon, like the other two founders/fathers of Surrealism (Soupault and Breton), was active in Dadaism in the years preceding the Surrealist movement.
This book was written/published in 1922, precedes The Surrealist Manifesto(s) by a couple of years, and yet seems to bridge the gap a bit between Dadaism and Surrealism.
Much of it is focused on Mentor's education of Telemecus, and a system referenced as Dd, which shares touch points with Dadaism.
In terms of who did what when, this is an impressive book. It makes much of Burroughs seem pointless, decades before he picked up a pen. However, it wasn't very readable, and I tend to place the tangible above the conceptual when picking what to read. I will still probably give his more famous work, Paris Peasant, a go, at some point in the next couple years.
Louis Aragon , on his birthday Oct 3 "I set about discovering the face of the infinite beneath the concrete forms which were escorting me, walking the length of the earth's avenues." Louis Aragon The dichotomous vision and juxtaposition of images of the Ideal and Real realms in which man is caught and must live have not only trapped us in a material world from which we must escape, this dual existence has shattered the human soul into myriad false selves and reflections.
For Louis Aragon, as for Jung, the project of becoming human is to unite our opposites and discover our authentic selves, to become whole.
I found this too difficult... Perhaps will try again someday...
