https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17377791-the-land-that-time-forgot
7/10The Land that Time Forgot is a fantasy novel, based on the similar lines of The Lost World, in which a group of people find themselves in a strange land, that was cut off from the rest of the world since antiquity, where they find flora and fauna of prehistoric ages still surviving (and yes, that includes Dinosaurs and other wild creepy creatures).
How they came to be in this wild prehistoric land is actually another adventure, and a different story in itself, which only make it more realistic and appealing.
Still, I wanted to read this book with a group & didn't have time for the old paperback on my shelves.
(I know why electronic formats are limited in their number of loans, but I don't like it.) This edition was handy & the book is short, not even 4 hours long.Unfortunately, my memories of ERB's great adventures are far better than a re-read.
There is far too much convenience in the writing.
In some ways, I really want to read the next one (there are 3) to answer all the questions, but I can't take either the reader or the writing any more.
Similar to Arthur Conan Doyles's The Lost World, but with a touch of romance added. Entertaining, but not as good as his A Princess of Mars. I have yet to read his Tarzan novels.
To enjoy this book, you must suspend your knowledge of science and evolution.
The book may be the source, or, at least, evidence of the beginning of the false idea that humans were the "goal" of evolution, and that some creatures are "more evolved" than others.
So, if you can ignore the bad science and the sexism, this book is about a boy and his dog meeting a girl.
The boy must win the safety and affection of the girl, while fighting off dinosaurs and cavemen.
AudiobookI enjoyed this (nearly) 100 year old classic adventure.
Unlike Doyle, who at least stabbed at scientific plausibility atop his isolated South American tepuis, Burroughs barely tries to have his science make sense - an entire semi-tropical continent lost just north of Antarctica; dinosaurs, modern mammals and at least 5 (?) species of "cavemen" co-evolving/co-existing; etc.
And while there are more dinosaurs and other beasts here than in Lost World, they really play no part in the story - they're just kind of there in the background, and so except for one "Bosche" sailor eaten by a plesiosaur, could just as easily have been feral cats or noisy neighbors for all the impact they have.In terms of writing, Burroughs' protagonist is a pretty colorless character.
In 1995, I sold a large box full of mint-condition Edgar Rice Burroughs books left over from my younger days.
Oops.My recollection of Burroughs is that (possibly aside from the Tarzan series) he had a formula, which he used again and again: a doughty hero ventures into extraordinary circumstances, and along the way rescues and falls in love with a beautiful and resilient woman.
Well, when I avidly read and reread everything of Burroughs that was in print in the early 60s, I thought that formula worked just fine.And reading it now -- heck, it still works.
Sometimes the prose feels a little purple.
Half submarine adventure story, half unbelievable lost island adventure, all pulp.
Probably draws a lot from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World, published four years earlier and given much more acclaim.
Both were originally published in magazines.Judging it as pulp, the rough plot works and is plenty exciting.
The tropical "island" is too unbelievable, with 3 or 4 species of early man in addition to scattered dinosaurs, and all just north of Antarctica.
Worse, the dinosaurs aren't the menacing villains we would expect, and play a very minor part of the plot.Perhaps early man (and his voyage "north") is meant to be a metaphor here?
This book was written in 1918 and takes place during World War I.We have a u-boat lost at sea that stumbles across an island that is secluded and untouched by mankind and all environmental and evolutionary changes that have taken place over the past millions of years so our heroes are stuck on an island with dinosaurs, saber tooth tigers, primitive man and all kinds of other monsters.This was not the first time I've read this novel but I didn't remember how slow it was at the start.
It took almost a third of the way into the book before they ever reach the island.
It's like a mix between Indiana Jones, Gulliver's Travels, Jurassic Park and a mutant sort of Planet of the Apes, with some other stuff thrown in.I don't know that I've seen either of the movies (maybe parts of the first one, when I was a kid), but I recommend reading it first, as it is significantly different, from what I've read about the movies on Wikipedia.
The book is rather short (only about 40k words, which is 10k words off being a long short story).The writing style is definitely fast-paced and extremely easy to read/follow.
Surprisingly, this novel works best in its initial chapters, before the characters reach dinosaur island.
Charles Darwin certainly didn't do this book any favors, as evolution is the driving force behind what makes much of this story both silly an inherently racist.
I normally wouldn't give a book this racist a passing grade; but I realize that Burroughs was a product of his times, and I'm willing to cut him a little slack.
The book is worth reading, if not for the dinosaurs, then for the cool bits about hijacking a German submarine.
I enjoyed this book like I have enjoyed many ERB books. His classic style of writing is always pleasant and the adventure for our characters in this one is not short on entertainment value. While not quite as wild as his Barsoom escapades, ERB takes readers on a very satisfying adventure into a lost world of long forgotten creatures and peril.
3.5 stars
It started out strong with a great premise, but then about halfway through the evolutionary biology gets wonky and the whole story starts to get a bit silly and even a tad racist. This guy obviously believed that white people are the most evolved race on the planet. I suppose I can't blame him: he published this story in 1918 and it's clearly a product of its time. Still, it's a fun and imaginative read that'll give you a glimpse of what the average American probably thought of the rest of the world at the turn of the 20th century.
Edgar Rice Burroughs was always an imaginative writer, even when his ideas tended to get a bit carried away. This one is a fun romp (with two sequels), though rather unevenly paced. His heroes (who he doesn't even name for about half of the book!) end up on a German U-Boat in World War I (a section that goes on and on) that stumbles across one of Burroughs' lost worlds. Just as the story starts to get interesting, it ends. On to book 2 tomorrow night!
This is the first book of Edgar Rice Burroughs I have read.
The main character whose name we don't know until near the end is travelling with his dog on an American cruise ship.
You will have to read it yourself.The story, the first of a trilogy, travels quickly.
It's ending is probably not what a modern-day reader expects but it's logical.
Despite this, it's easy enough to read this story which will have you holding on for dear life when you encounter the ravenous dinosaurs, murderous WWI Germans and cannibalistic Neanderthals.If you love tales of high adventure with fantastic settings, you will love this book.
I probably would have liked this as a boy, and boys are probably the intended audience. However, to me, the whole story felt too...silly. Not because of the dinosaurs and cavemen, but because of the awful narration from the protagonist Bowen Tyler, who divides his time between reflecting on his own strength and fighting skill and pining for Lys La Rue and admiring "the graceful curves of her slender body."
It was a weird read. Fairly short and some odd sentence structures. I will be reading the other two books in the trilogy. If you want to read Burroughs though, stick to Mars or Tarzan.
Fun little “lost world” story. Not the best of the genre, but still a good read.
When I was 12 I happened to read the third book in the series, OUT OF TIME'S ABYSS.
But once the heroes are well inland and they actually start fighting cavemen and dinosaurs, it's an okay book.
("I'd never been around ladies before, but I instantly loved Lys with all my soul." And then it's like, "ten cavemen attacked me all at once, fortunately I knew the Jap art of Jujitsu." I so wanted to punch this guy on so many levels!)I can't say I didn't enjoy this book, but it really is pure crap.
The book has a strong beginning, mixing a gripping WWI adventure with a land of dinosaurs story.
It tells the tale of English and American sailors who take control of a German submarine.
The adventure then moves to the mysterious land of Caspak where they encounter "the land that time forgot." It is a world inhabited by dinosaurs, primitive men and constant danger.
He also details an interesting evolutionary system involving the primitive tribes.
But the story ends abruptly.
The tension between the Germans and allies, which we assumed was over, largely returns and we are presented with an unsatisfying resolution.
This is a pretty fun adventure book that starts as a war adventure that ends up on a prehistoric island.
Since I was expecting dinosaurs from the get-go, that made it a little weird.The book picks up when they get to the island and they start battling dinos.
Then they discover primitive peoples.
The primitive people are sometimes described like apes, and sometimes Negroid.On the other hand, there is some fun references to prehistoric men that have since been discovered to be hoaxes.All in all, if you can get through that nonsense, it's the book equivalent of an action movie.
It's been a good many years since I first read this one.
The script was co-written by Michael Moorcock and I thought it might be more literate than other such efforts.It was.
The ending was considerably different and a few incidents were compressed into one, one subplot eliminated, and cheesy looking dinos.The tale of a German U-boat, with the survivors of a merchant ship they'd sunk, land on an island that's a throwback, with different ages of evolution represented from dinosaurs to cavemen to animals alive today.Great fun from one of the all-time masters.
An oldie but a goodie. Unfortunately I often avoid reading the classics because many I've read haven't been that enjoyable for me, but this time I really found a good one. This book is relatively short and fast paced with plenty of action and adventure as well as a fantastic setting. I really can't think of anything I would rather he had done differently.
Gaaah!! This is why I read Burroughs. Cheesy, straightforward, gutsy pulp. It feels like he superglued two stories together -- the adventure with a hijacked U-Boat and an adventure in a lost world island of dinosaurs. But I don't care! I love them both! Obvious, predictable and deeply satisfying.
After their ship is sank by a German U-Boat, survivors end up on an unknown continent where dinasaurs and other beasts roam and men at various stages of development share the same land. Interesting and great narration
Another classic by one of the greats.🐯👍
I thought this was a fascinating fantasy sci-fi short story. Really enjoyed this old classic.
Ressenya en catalàhttp://www.elkraken.com/Ressenyes_Cat...reseña en castellano:http://www.elkraken.com/Esp/T-esp/R-t...
Lots of action!
