https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11870085-the-fault-in-our-stars
It's pretentious and unbelievable, AND besides, you can totally see that John Green loves the characters.VH: What author doesn't like the characters of their own book?Me: It's not the same!
He doesn't mean, like, he loves it when someone reads him his own books.
And I'd rather kneel before a kid who has cancer and who doesn't know what a metaphor is than shed a tear over one of Augustus's stupid monologues.VH: You liar, I know you cried while you read the book.
Especially at THIS special moment.Me: *looks away* I don't know what you're talking about.VH : You cried when Hazel asked her mom if she would still be a mom after her death.Me: Fine, okay.
Update (25/06/2014)- Since I've been receiving a lot of cyber bullies and hate messages, I’m going to clarify few things.-Firstly, this is a negative review of the book and it has got a lot of potential to infuriate the fans. If you think that your opinion is the only opinion that exists on earth and that no one should dislike your favourite book, then I would suggest you to avoid this review.-Secondly, This is my review and I have the freedom to analyse and criticise this book as I wish to wit
Just because you love a particular book that I hate doesn't make you a good person and me a bad person, It simply shows that people like different things.
I have no problem with people who genuinely love this book; I have problems with those who think readers should not have the rights to express their dislike for any book, I have problems with those who approve of and participate in cyber bullying reviewers who write negative reviews on their favourite books, I have problems with those who refuse to acknowledge the fact that their favourite books can have flaws and not everyone’s going to love them, I have problems with those who come here to shove their opinions down my throat.
...no warning, no time to process the myriad emotions coursing through me, nope, nothing, just a huge endless void-filled fall and then a sudden crash that took my breath away, like literally...I hate the fact that I fell in love with this bound-to-end-in-oblivion, bound-to-end-in-disaster boy who stared with blue blue eyes and put the killing thing right between his teeth, but never gave it the power to do its killing.
Having finished this book, which, to me, was such a chore to do, I think I’ve stumbled upon decent reasons as to why I really can’t give this any more than two stars.If you didn’t know by now, The Fault in Our Stars tells the story of Hazel, a girl whose thyroid cancer has ceased to grow thanks to a magical miracle drug.
He says this after that beautiful basketball connection to a child shoving cylinders into circle holes:“And I wondered if the hurdlers ever thought, you know, ‘This would go faster if they just got rid of the hurdles.’”THIS IS ONE OF THE STUPIDEST THINGS I HAVE EVER READ IN A BOOK.Augustus Waters, actual athlete, says something like this about a sport.
Let's take a moment and consider all the implications of that, and why he is making a colossal understatement when he described the experience as "devastating." That was about twelve years ago, and Green has said in interviews that because of this experience, he's spent twelve years trying to write a book about kids with cancer - not poster children of strength and courage and illness-granted wisdom, but real kids and their families and friends who have to cope with the fact that they will die young.
In fact, reading this book was a little bit like watching one of Green's vlogs, which might have worked well if JG hadn't dampened the humour with philosophical musings.
Natural conversation between anyone of any age doesn't work like this and I couldn't shake the feeling that there should be a laughter track playing in the background.The Fault in Our Stars, in my opinion, would have been far better if Green had stuck to humour like Andrews did in Me and Earl and the Dying Girl.
It tries not to, as the main protagonists claimed theirselves, set the victims of disease up as typical heroic, worldly wise characters, it still reads like a novel attempting to bring equilibrium out of disaster.
But what differs from that and attempting to write a disease ridden novel that attempts to make you laugh, is apparently personal experience.
But none of the readers of this novel who have not experienced the kind of loss depicted here have a right to laugh at any of it.
As seen on The ReadventurerThe Fault in Our Stars currently has a rating of 4.74 on Goodreads, almost everyone I know has given it 5 stars, therefore I'm certain no one would want to read my sour musings, except me and maybe a couple of other like-minded and unimpressed.What I'd love to know is this - what makes a writer undertake the topic of cancer?
What new did John Green have to bring to the cancer table?The way I see it, nothing.
Frankly, I think The Fault in Our Stars is Green's weakest work to date, weaker even than half-baked Zombicorns.
This is me after I finished the book (and whenever I think about it).*pointless EDIT* Woooah!
*EDIT* In a lot of peoples reviews I keep seeing "they don't talk their age!" or "They make these beautiful long speeches which is something that normal teenagers don't do" and I have to point out that Augustus and Hazel AREN'T normal teenagers.
So I'll just point out the things that made this book amazing.
Their romance was so epic and I know, I KNOW, that this is a book I will read over and over again and cry every single time.
John Green.John Green.John Green.You're not like Peter Van Houten, are you?What have you done to my brain...and my heart...I'm not gonna review how exquisite John Green can write, or how he can create characters as special as Hazel Grace and Augustus Waters, or how amazing he can tell a story.
You might find it unrealistic, because if there are many of us who see the life and its complexity like Hazel and Gus do, this world will be such a happy place.
So like any other book, this one also might be a miss or a hit.
Everything in this book: the characters, the story, the words, they all have the power to be an inspiration.
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars But in ourselves.  This is the first time I’ve truly been at a loss for words. What am I supposed to say? How can I do this book justice? Maybe tell you all that it was perfect? The best, most heartbreaking, hilarious book that has touched me like none other? Sure. I mean, it's been said countless times, in countless reviews, and you know what? They are absolutely, a hundred and fifty percent true.Hazel's days are numbered thanks to her crap lungs. S
Maybe tell you all that it was perfect?
The best, most heartbreaking, hilarious book that has touched me like none other?
But when a gorgeous plot twist named Augustus Waters suddenly appears at Cancer Kid Support Group, Hazel's story is about to be completely rewritten.
I don't think I've ever cried so much, laughed so much, just over all enjoyed a book as much as I have while reading The Fault in Our Stars.
It’s not just the main characters that stole my heart, Isaac, the parents, even her damn tank, Phillip, did as well.
Venn you vish upon a star...
I feel so sorry for these privileged, middle-class, white teenagers.
So, book, you decided not to play fair, huh? You used Tearjerking 101, huh? You armed yourself with adorably precocious teenage characters delivering insanely quotable lines while dying from cancer, huh?Well, guess what -  "I'm not cryyyyying! It's just been raining on my face..."  And so my hard-won cool image of a cold-hearted cynic has been saved by this line, courtesy of New Zealand's 4th most popular guitar-based digi-bongo acapella-rap-funk-comedy folk duo: Seriously, book, you know that m
You armed yourself with adorably precocious teenage characters delivering insanely quotable lines while dying from cancer, huh?Well, guess what - 
Too bad, since adorable and fragile precociousness is at the 'literal heart' of this book.
You can even see it as a book trying really hard to NOT be a stereotypical 'cancer book' - to the point where characters are stating so at length.And you know what?
But with the quotability factor and the smart precociousness still comes the real sadness and cuteness and feeling that clawed its way into my heart and made me love it despite the imperfections.
Hang on a sec.I'm gonna leave the rating blank now, cause I feel like I wouldn't have given this book five stars had I read it today.
Yeah, it definitely impacted me once upon a time, but now...
I've read so many unbelievably emotional books that this one just seems to, quite frankly, fade into the background.
I've read a handful of eye-opening reviews and analyses that have made me see this book in a new light.
A dimmer light, sadly.Sorry to disappoint the people who liked my former review, where I claimed that this book was so "heart-destroying" and whatnot.
In fact, I think I only re-read 12 books in my entire life.
And that was when I was younger and didn’t know Goodreads existed, hehe.However, I know that, when I’m going to re-read The Fault in Our Stars, I’ll appreciate it even more than I do now, fall harder in love with Augustus and feel an even greater connection to Hazel.
I’m so eager to read his other novels, in occurrence Looking for Alaska of which I heard only great things; it has a big amount of raving reviews.Hazel's family is adorable and full of love.
Hazel Grace is just like us, she loves books and she specially loves her favourite book “An Imperial Affliction” by Peter Van Houten who happens to be her best friend, but let’s say this is a one-sided friendship.
I also want a lot of authors to be my friends!She tells Augustus about the book and he obviously reads it because he would do ANYTHING for Hazel Grace.
***The below is not about the book, is about my life, you might not want to read it but I have to say this***That man on the picture was my best friend for almost 19 years, the man of my life, my half, the person who will be my example until the last day of my life.
Overall, it felt very insincere and I was constantly distracted by how obviously everything was written with the goal of tugging on the reader's heart strings, rather than just letting things happen that were beautiful in spite of being sad.
It felt like Mr. Green was screaming at me from the page 'ARE YOU SAD YET?
Instead everything feels very unnatural and self-conscious in the worst way.The biggest and most impossible thing for me to get around was I simply didn't believe the character of Augustus or his relationship with main character Hazel.
ARE YOU FEELING THINGS YET?) but her relationship with Augustus felt completely and totally forced.
Holy holy holy I waited so long for this novel, so long. I wish so bad I could give it more than 5 stars. John Green is absolutely amazing, amazing, amazing. The Fault in Our Stars had me laughing and crying, then laughing more and crying more. I will reread this over and over again, just like the rest of his novels. Oh wow, was it ever worth the wait. Thank you, John Green, for being so damn spectacular.
فتاة من الجيل الجديد، واقعية ، ذكية ، وأيضا صلبة شيئا ما...انه المرض كما تعرفونتعشق رواية ما، وهي الرواية الثانية -كما قلت روايتان في كتاب- وتشعر بانها قريبة منها جدا:هذه الرواية هيِِ"An Imperial Affliction"وتدور احداثها حول آنـّا ، فتاة في السادسه عشر من عمرها ، مصابة بسرطان ايضا ، ولكن ميزة تلك الرواية انها ليست كالروايات التقليدية ، ولكنها مختلفة فالبطلة تحكي الالم بواقعية ، ولانها لا تحب الكلاشيهات..
I enjoy looking at beautiful people, and I decided a while ago not to deny myself the simpler pleasures of existence." (That one is a good one if you, like me, love your friends a lot but are bad at compliments.
I enjoy ranting about horrible people, and I decided a while ago not to deny myself the simpler pleasures of existence.(This is part of a project I am doing wherein I write mini reviews of books I read a long time ago.
Let me start with how I feel My heart hurts. It bleeds, it cries. This book made me feel. How to articulate and not post a bunch of nonsensical babble. Did I enjoy reading this book?No.Did this book make an everlasting impression on me, in a good way?Yes.Would I read it again?Well, yes. I'm a masochist.Who should read this book?Everyone.What did this book teach me?That life isn't fair, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't live it to the best of you ability. And a whole lot more, but I think you
This book made me feel.
I'm a masochist.Who should read this book?Everyone.What did this book teach me?That life isn't fair, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't live it to the best of you ability.
And a whole lot more, but I think you get my meaning.
But dear God, if I could find just a third of their kind of love, well, I think I'd be made for life.
She lives by a book called, An Imperial Affliction by Peter Van Houten.By the way I think she is one of the best heroines ever written.This quote is the most eloquently descriptive I have ever come across.

you have a choice in this world, i believe, about how to tell sad stories, and we made the funny choice.john green, like his characters, always makes the funny choice.
because john green (when i say his name, you should see little hearts coming out from my ears - ♥john green♥) has enough skills to make these potentially unbelievable characters consistently entertaining and to do the unthinkable of making a YA cancer book very very funny.
this is not funny:but john green is.
they are teens, after all.(jesus, i may have forgotten to mention that this book is funny.
It is to gain sympathy because his female readers would like to cry buckets of tears especially if the guy is as good-looking as Augustus the apple of the eyes of our heroine who is also cancer-stricken, Hazel.
Sadly, in my opinion, John Green has no particular purpose but for commercial reason: to generate sympathy that means more readers, more sales, more money to bring to the bank.There is nothing new in this book.
I know John Green is laughing his way to the bank especially because some movie people took advantage of this book's popularity so this even has a big screen adaptation.
What can I say about this amazing book that has not already been said a million times? It's real, heart-wrenching and so, so well written. I'm a fan of alll of John's books but this one is a masterpiece. I'm not even exaggerating.
i think most people will remember the first book that made them cry.
TFIOS was mine.this was a story of love, and loss, of grief, and hope, and all the infinities in between.
it taught me what it meant to truly empathise with others.
it taught me what it means to live.
it taught me how to find the positive in the most hopeless of situations.
and because of that, i know am a better person after closing this book than i was when i first opened it.
and to john green, i cannot tell you how thankful i am for this little infinity.
The Fault in Our Stars is a clever little book because it normalises a tragic piece of life that is surprisingly underrepresented in fiction. It’s also funny, wise and heart-warming in a sad sort of way. I’m not going to say too much about this one, only that it really is worth reading regardless of your age. It captures a piece of humanity that we all need to hear. Word of warning though, it might make you cry.
They immediately hit it off and change each others lives drastically.The Fault in Our Stars is another beautifully written book by John Green.
A few months ago John made a video on his youtube channel, and in this video he read the first two chapter of this book.
I'm not going to say that this was the most original cancer book out there, but it felt more personal.Let's start with the characters.
John Green wrote the same exact character over and over again in his previous books.
He's unlike all of John Greens male characters, and I adore him.There is simply one complaint I have about this book.
