https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16907.Smith_of_Wootton_Major
The star allows the person to enter the realm of Fay, a boon by all accounts.
On entering the realm, and experiencing the power of it, the lucky person must then return home with the star for another child to be given the gift in another twenty-four years.
He remained a learner and explorer, not a warrior; and though in time he could have forged weapons that in his own world would have had power enough to become the matter of great tales and be worth a king's ransom, he knew that in Faery they would have been of small account.
I want to have kids just so I can read them stories like this. I wanted to eat the Twenty-Fourth Year Cake; I wanted to hear Smith Smithson sing while he smithied; and just when my eyes were bugging out of my head because of the beautiful descriptions of Faerie, I remembered it all started with a Master Baker. The story changed hands at least three times, but it was seamless. Each one of the hands could have been a story of Their Own.I'd rate this a G. Read this to your chilluns! They need more magic. So do you!
A visit to Faery.
It may touch your soul.Unlike The Lord of the Rings, which Tolkien labored over for decades, Smith came to him in a flash, and he dashed it off whole.
An excellent companion for "On Fairy Stories" from The Tolkien Reader, since Smith of Wootton Major is just such a fairy story.BTW, it is only on the second or third reading that the wonder grew upon me.
Subsequent readings, the Faery grows upon you.After fifth reading, it still grabs me as (usually) only real fairy tales do.
Tolkien had a grasp for what really works.(edited for minor correction on 9/9/2016)
Bought with the same Christmas book voucher as The Adventures of Tom Bombadil and Farmer Giles of Ham. It is an extremely shabby, battered and worn piece of bookage now.:O)
The fairies are not small and precious, but real and potentially dangerous, and so is their land.
The precious star was, in earlier drafts, a ring, after all.In any case, it's a thoughtful little story.
I almost said sweet, but I think that would be reducing it to something like the decoration on the cake which insults the fairy queen.This extended edition casts light on Tolkien's thought process, during all stages of his creative process with it.
It's interesting, particularly if you're interested in Tolkien's creative process.
Impossibile non lasciarsi tentare da un paragone con l'Unico Anello, oggetto colmo di potere maligno la cui cessione è quasi sempre accompagnata dal sangue.Fabbro, come dicevamo, rappresenta forse lo stesso Tolkien nell'atto di ritirarsi da Faerie, cioè dai reami della sua immaginazione, e di lasciare la sua pietra scintillante perché qualcun altro possa riceverla.Un commento all'edizione: Il fabbro di Wootton Major è inserito anche nella raccolta Albero e foglia, ed è di quella che consiglio l'acquisto.
Smith of Wootton Major narra a aventura de um simples mortal no rico e estranho reino das fadas criado por Tolkien. Não querendo ser injusta para com o livro e o seu autor, Smith of Wootton Major é um trabalho menos enérgico, sem a força e o ímpeto das aventuras literárias que lhe conhecemos - menos “mágico”. Gostei do livro e estou obviamente contente pela adição à minha colecção de Tolkien, mas não posso dizer que tenha ficado particularmente impressionada.
É uma história bem simples e direta, mas que dá para tirar umas reflexões muito interessantes por trás. Tolkien não foi quem foi por acaso.A edição da Martins Fontes é sensacional. Os extras desse livro valem quase outro livro.
This story is grouped in with "The Light Princess" by George MacDonald for me as one of the books that makes me feel exactly the way I want to feel about magic. This story has things that you want. This story has cake.
This was quite an enjoyable little story. I thought it was very interesting and I loved the premise of it and how it was executed. I throughly enjoyed it just as it was, a story. It was a great story and one that I am glad that I got to read.
4.5 stars
I really enjoyed this. I was in the library and I saw it and picked it up because it looked cute, and then I couldn't put it down and devoured it in one sitting. 4 stars.
Written in the twilight of Tolkien's remarkable legacy, Smith is a story seeped in knowing and a far calmer story compared to the Rings books.
This is Tolkien 'winding down' yet imbued with all the wisdom and knowledge accrued over the decades.
An excellent afterward by Verlyn Flieger makes a reference to Tolkien's love of Roger Lancelyn Green's review (1967) saying that 'to seek for the meaning is to cut open the ball in search of its bounce'.
This is a very cute short story. It's not my favourite one but It has the magic that only Tolkien can create.
In the village of Wootton Major, The Feast of Good Children is held every twenty-four years.
Twenty-four children are invited and the feast ends with an extraordinary Great Cake.
It's definitely an adventure even if it shares traits with The Lord of the Rings; there isn't really much happening other than his exploring of the Land of Faery.
By the end of the story, the man has to give back the star.
But even without that metaphor, it's a nice little fantasy story.
He sure knows how to write a good story.
En este cuento el protagonista simplemente tiene la posibilidad de encontrar una entrada a Fantasía, y explorarla.
Y aunque se alude a peligros en ese lugar, lo cierto es que el protagonista nunca los encuentra.El cuento se centra en cómo Fantasía te cambia, te llena y te hace feliz.
Y como, en su momento, uno debe ceder el testigo a alguien más joven y permitir que otros conozcan este lugar.Por algo más de 80 páginas, un cuento delicioso que os merecéis leer.
É um livro muito legal para quem é fã de Tolkien.
A história é bem pequena, menos da metade de livro.
O restante do livro é um pouco de contexto sobre a história e porque ela foi escrita, juntamente com algumas ligações sobre a vida do Tolkien na época.Esse foi o último livro escrito pelo Tolkien antes de sua morte e diz muito sobre o seus pensamentos sobre escrita, sobre o mundo das "fadas" (que não tem nada a ver com o que pensamos dele atualmente) e sobre a vida no geral.A história em si lembra um pouco do "Mestre Gil de Ham" no estilo de escrita.
Exquisite.
Last Read2014 (5 November)2015 (29-30 December)
Quite lovely!
It is a small, perfectly worked, cleverly tuned and polished example of a faery tale.
It does all this, whilst being a perfectly decent faery story with little to no ostensible hint of the lessons being learnt.
But come the end, the lessons will have been subconsciously taken up and the reader well entertained in to the bargain.It's not strictly for children this tale, Tolkien is at pains to state that faery tales generally aren't for children, at least not specifically.
No, it is a reflection of an old man, looking at life from the end of it and seeing the changes and the small part in the chain they play.
Sebbene non sia un racconto "allegorico" presenta qualche allegoria che rende questa deliziosa fiaba ancora più bella.Non mi dilungo a raccontare la trama, piuttosto voglio sottolineare l'estrema BELLEZZA di questa edizione cofanetto della Harper Collins.
Il libricino contiene non solo il racconto, ma anche vari approfondimenti tra cui degli scritti di Tolkien stesso.
Quello che ho apprezzato di più è stato appunto trovare all'interno del libro alcuni pensieri dello scrittore.
I suoi pensieri sul fatto che non ci dovesse essere introduzione, per non interferire tra il lettore e la storia, ma piuttosto sarebbe stato meglio inserire una postfazione in cui commentare "insieme" se la storia è piaciuta o meno.
This is a beautiful story of magic, enchantment, perseverance, and with a dash of stubbornness and good humour.
For fans of faery stories, this almost can read as a precursor to Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, of which both tales include amazingly overlapping features — literary and geographically (metageographically???).
While his Hobbit, Lord of the Rings, Silmarillion, and later posthumous works grow denser and denser with each publication, this strips away all of that pretentiousness and tells a quaint and lovely tale of faery magic in a little village (but one bigger than Wootton Minor!).
For all lovers of classics, faery tales, fantasy, and allegory.
It was fun to re-experience this story in audiobook form.
Derek Jacobi does a magnificent job in his reading performance.I'd forgotten some of the similarities Smith of Wootton Major holds with LOTR.
The process of giving up the star in order to bestow it on a new person reminded me a bit of Bilbo's giving up the ring (though love for the star is certainly a sweet and innocent love, unlike passion for the ring).
The characters are simply drawn for the most part, and the whole tale feels rather like a parable.
One certainly touches faerie when reading this tale.
Tolkienin Shakespearevari peri anlayışıyla alıp veremediğinin ne olduğu net şekilde görülüyor. Şahsen ben de ufak tefek sevimli zararsız peri konseptinden haz etmiyorum ondandır ki W.S. perileri bir bıkkınlık yaratırken Yeats ve Tolkiende şu ana kadar karşılaştığım peri anlayışı daha ilgi çekici geliyor. Ölmeden önce yazdığı son öykü olmasından da olabilir beklenenden daha durgun ve bir hüzünlü havası var. Kendinin ve içinde bulunduğu ortamların öyküsündeki karakterler ve toplumsal algılarla özdeşleşmesi diğer eserlerine göre daha belirgin.
This was the most enchanting book I've read in ages!!!
And it wasn't just because it was by Tolkien (well - kinda...).
It was beautifully written in Tolkien's prose and the story felt as old, and yet new, all at once.
I particularly loved how the (incredibly long) afterword made it clear that this book, just like Lord of the Rings, is not an allegory.
It's simply a story of a man's adventures in faerie land.
And that, I think, just makes it all the more special.
It's just a tale meant to be enjoyed - and I really did enjoy it!
Benim gibi Tolkien’in diğer klasiklerini okumayanlardansanız, yaşamının sonunda yazdığı bu son öyküyü okumanızı naçizane tavsiye ederim. Özellikle Roverandom’dan sonra bu öyküdeki betimlemeler ve göndermeler daha bir manalı oldu benim için. Eğer öyküde derinleşmek niyetindeyseniz içinde uzun bir Büyük Wootton Demircisi ismiyle makale bulunmakta. Bazı karakterler bazı konuların referansları muhtemelen başka kitaplara verilmekte. Bunları bilmeden de okumak epey keyifliydi.
Beautiful tale, openly influenced by MacDonald's works
A lovely short tale. If you are looking for a quick dose of Tolkien's magic and beauty, look no more.
My 1000th book. how appropriate for it to be a Tolkien
