https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660276.Eternity_Ring
Although he is on holiday, Frank gives the local police a hand trying to find the body the young woman claims she saw.Frank’s cousin Cicely has left her husband, Grant Hathaway, and is staying in the same house as Frank but refuses to talk with anyone about her personal affairs.
She, along with everyone else in the village, wonder how such a thing could happen in Deeping.When Frank returns to London he tells Miss Silver about the mysterious murder with no body and adds some local colour that has surfaced as well.
He is puzzled and asks his friend Miss Silver to come and stay and see if she thinks the girl is lying.What follows is an intriguing mystery which may or may not involve Frank's cousin Cicely and her estranged husband, Grant Hathaway as well as many of the neighbours.
It is thanks to Miss Silver that the missing corpse is eventually discovered but not until another murder has taken place and there are even more suspects in the frame.I think this is one of Patricia Wentworth's best Miss Sliver mysteries featuring as it does her working in harmony with the police and making best use of her ability to fade into the background and be overlooked just when an intelligent listener is needed.
3 1/2 starsThe narrative was a bit clumsy at the onset of this one. Unfortunately, the author got prosy. But even though the story had a shaky start, the author soon ceased writing such excessively flowery descriptions and redeemed herself in the end.
But, there is an endearing dachshund, Bramble, and Miss Silver quickly puts everything back in order.“Miss Cicely brought her real nice books, and not the improving kind neither.
Maggie had a sharp eye for being improved, and an impenetrable armor against it.
She liked the age-old success story—the barefoot boy who sells papers in the streets and becomes a millionaire, the girl who starts so plain that nobody will look at her and ends up a raving beauty or a duchess.
She liked a good murder, with all the corpse’s friends and enemies suspected in turn…” “Bramble was very funny when he ran.
A good average Miss Silver Mystery. Mary Stokes discovers a dead body in Dead Man's Copse one evening but when she returns with a police officer it is no longer there. Miss Silver becomes involved by this event and is determined to get to the bottom of it.She does, of course - in the nick of time.
Holy cow! What a ride!So many twists and turns. great writing. Amazingly drawn characters. Had to stay up to finish. Red herrings galore right till the end.
A great old mystery by Patricia Wentworth featuring a disappearing body & estranged young newlyweds. Miss Silver sorts everything out nicely, as always.
Another good book from Pat Wentworth.
A good read. Glad to know she has so many in the series- and most are on a shelf at my mother's house so lots of reading at hand.
Eternity Ring (Miss Silver #14), Patricia Wentworth
Frank's cousin left her husband of three months and will tell no one what caused the split.In a small village, the local gossip hotline has grist for their mill.The romance in this one, if that is what it is supposed to be, is too soap opera for me.
The cousin mopes around making sure everyone knows how miserable she is, but won't speak to a friend or her mother about what happened.
This is what happens in the soaps, troubles are caused by Olympic level jumping to conclusions and lack of communication.
In the previous books in the series, we’ve always seen Miss Silver’s young policeman friend, Frank Abbott, on the job, and never known much about his background.
The young couple were only married three months before they separated, and no one can figure out what prompted the disagreement.Soon the villagers in Deeping have something different to gossip about, though – a somewhat trashy young lady named Mary Stokes claims to have seen the corpse of a woman who was wearing diamond eternity ring ear-rings, only with one of the pair missing.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
I have so many books in my house; I probably have over 700 unread mysteries, yet sometimes it is difficult to know what to read and I just grab anything.
(I like getting through the unread mysteries because then I can give them away which is my ultimate goal for most of the books in the house.) Anyway, I read this book in desperation.
The only thing I like about the books (or a few things): she does do fem jep suspense decently (though at the same time I hate to say that I thought Cis deserved to be killed a few times for stupidity).
The Miss Silver mysteries are ideal companions for this state: they’re interesting enough that I am always eager to read more, but cozy and mild-mannered enough that when I start to (finally) get back to sleep, I can put them away.
Also, let’s hear it for everyone not being a serial killer as is all too much the case in more modern mysteries.
On the other hand, no one writes as charming dachshunds (yes, you read that right!) as Wentworth, and Bramble was a hoot.
(Disclosure: I grew up with a lovely dachshund and have always adored the breed.)
One of the later Miss Silvers and, in my opinion, one of the best.
The writing is succint, and it throws into high relief our tendencies to judge -- mainly erroneously - on appearance.
A masterly denoument that shows how superficial mouthings of love can be - and the difference when it is the real thing.
If you want to be thrown, puzzled and confused, then this is for you.
One caveat, however, I shall never be a fragile hyacinth supported by a strong bowl of metal.
My first novel by this author.
Reminds me of Miss Marple.
The fact that it was written in 1948 helps me understand its tone.
I found it modestly entertaining, more color at first than story.
Not sure what the point was with the "crippled" girl who listened in on the phone calls.
Perhaps to keep the story from being solved with a few phone calls as some characters preferred not to chat on the phone knowing that they were being listened in on.
I'd read others of her mysteries as they do remind me of the comfort-food type stories of Miss Marple and Poirot.
Die Sätze waren entweder kurz und abgehackt, oder viel zu lang und umständlich.
Es ist ein durchschnittlicher Krimi, spannend mit einige mehr oder minder gelungene Figuren.
Und hätte ich nicht gewusst, dass es ein sog.
"Miss Silver Roman" ist, dann hätte ich die Dame als reines "Füllmaterial" betrachtet, so wie die meisten Charaktere eigentlich.
Bis auf eine Handvoll, waren die meisten Charaktere nur da, um ein paar Informationen zu verteilen bevor sie spurlos in die Vergessenheit geraten.
Nichtsdestotrotz fang ich das Rätsel um den Mord interessant und konnte die Geschichte, trotz ihrer recht einfältigen Figuren, genießen.
An excellent mystery with all of the Wentworth elements: an estranged couple that you know are meant for each other, Frank Abbott's cousins, an English village, a middle-aged maid with money who has married a bounder, and a limited suspect list. An interesting addition is that the seamstress's daughter, confined to her couch due to an accident, enjoys listening in on everyone's phone conversations because the phones are on party lines.The mystery is clever and initially deals with a past crime. All is saved by a single casual choice or as Miss Silver says "by the hand of Providence".
An enjoyable mid-century English village murder mystery, but not especially memorable. I found it odd that Miss Silver didn't play a very large role; the inspectors were more prominent than she was, and it felt like the ending just kind of fell together rather than Miss Silver really figuring it out.
This was all right, fairly predictable but it did take me a little while to decide on which of the possible suspects was the villain. In terms of the rest of the story, Wentworth really likes married people who are estranged due to misunderstandings, doesn't she?
This was my first Miss Silver book and although it took me a while to get into it. The mystery is good and quite twisty although I found it hard to keep track of who everyone was in the suspect list for a while. I'll definitely be reading more from the Miss Silver series though.
A very lively murder mystery with a theme of who's crying wolf, who's telling the truth, and who is listening in on the party line. A woman is bludgeoned to death and a witness thinks the dead woman was wearing only one eternity-style diamond earring. Miss Silver helps discover whodunit.
Loved it! Wonderful characters & a host of suspects!
Good who done it, written by an author whose writing style and characters I really enjoyed.
3.5. Patricia Wentworth always does a good job of creating the right mood.
Even more fun and clever the second time aroundOne of the aspects I enjoy most about Wentworth's mysteries is the romantic plot that weaves throughout the story. This one in particular is a favorite of mine, featuring an estranged married couple who are coping with what went wrong in their relationship, while faced with repercussions from murders in the village. No spoilers!
So satisfying A little romance, a little mystery,a bit of logic and a happy ending. What more can one ask from a bedtime book? Perfect of its kind!
This was enjoyable, but would have been better if Wentworth hadn't been so predictable in one respect. From the start the reader knows one character she absolutely would not have made the killer, so that narrows the suspects significantly and means all the red herrings that were intended to lead toward that character point instead directly to the actual murderer. But, in common with the early half of her books, the characters were mostly likeable and the motive not too standard.
Not my favorite Wentworth novel to date. A woman finds a body, reports it, and then the police find no body. Miss Silver comes to investigate. I found some of the characters rather unlikeable in this one and so I tended to skip a lot of repetition. It's still quite good at description and atmosphere, though, so even though the mystery wasn't great, the mood was well done.
