https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17488.Five_on_a_Treasure_Island
Jess, my 7-year old girl, gives it 5 stars.Comments while reading:"Georgina is a girl but she wants to be called 'George'.
Is she a tomboy?""Who says that boys never cry?
The boys in my class cry.
A lot!""Uncle Quentin is scary!""George is like a volcano --- she's always angry or is about to get angry.""How can a kid own an island?""Awww, Tim is so cute!""Why can't Anne keep a secret?
She's such a baby!""I like it when George took an axe and wrecked the bad guys' motorboat.
She's so fierce!""I want to read more Famous Five books.""Why are they famous?
Is it because they have adventures?""Are they real?
No, of course Pokemons are not real!"
The number of pages of Secret Seven were tiny in comparison to this one.I was reading a book this summer and not liking the immoral personalities present in there.Guess, you sometimes need a break from these grown-up melodramas.
And who better to go to than Enid?The treasure hunting and ship wreck brought me back the memories of why I loved the Secret Seven.
Coming together of all five of them over a beautiful island, fighting off the rogues and the thrill of an adventure -Enid Blyton is an all time classic.Surely, I am going to read this entire series too.
What a delightful and fun book!The basics....Julian, Dick and Anne are disappointed when they can't go to their favorite place for a holiday.
The kids happily travel to Kirrin Bay to meet their cousin for the first time and spend the summer having adventures....including searching for lost gold!I loved this story!
Luckily, despite a bit of danger, the kids had a great time and ended the summer all in one piece.There are 21 books in the Famous Five series.
It was a nice palate cleanser....a quick, enjoyable read about kids having fun, adventure, and some mystery for the summer!
Who thought it necessary to dumb it down for today's children?
For me, revisiting these books was a chance to have a little giggle at the archaisms, and for them to be completely missing was a disappointment.
This is still a great adventure for children, and brings back fond memories for adults.
If you can look past the completely unnecessary changes (which admittedly I got used to after a while and didn't affect the characters or the story very much) then this is a great trip down memory lane.
This is one that lured me into the reading world. I still remember it like yesterday; it was during my 4th grade summer vacations. I was down with high fever and was crying for days for missing out on my yearly trip.So to pacify my tantrums , i was gifted this book. Ah! the mysterious world of Julian, Anne, Dick and my favorite George made me forget my pain and i ended up reading the whole series volume in that summer. Thanks Enid! for bringing me to a world of limitless imagination.
The first volume of the 23 Famous Five books sets up a number of patterns and themes that are returned to many times in the series.It also establishes some basic groundwork that Enid Blyton later forgot and changed, leading to curious inconsistencies.For example: Julian, Dick, and Anne discover they have a ten year old cousin they have never met.
which makes no sense if their father has no association with Kirrin Bay and it was their aunt's family who owned it all...In this book we see George acquire Timmy the dog, the 5th of the Famous Five.
Visiting these books again love this author so much they really are the best books. Even if your child is reading or learning to these would be the best books ever full of fun so they are. 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟
I remember feeling how it was a magical experience and twenty years later I still feel that when sitting down with a book today.I've been wanting to catch up with Blyton as an adult, to see how her work stands up, and I finally got my chance with this handsome hardback.
It's a fantasy world nowadays, but how great it is to go back there!Blyton's strength lies in her vivid description, and the island, the ruined castle and the shipwreck make perfect backdrops for the simplistic action.
I'm looking forward to catching up with more of the author's work in future.
Sometimes you read a book and wonder how didn't you get to read this one in your childhood while everyone about your age did.Five on a Treasure Island, you are certainly the first one I read after a considerably long time, but your next parts sure are not going to be. Here I come.
I had the opportunity to read the whole Famous Five series during my school vacations when i was an eleven year old and 'Five on a Treasure Island' was the first book that introduced me to the magical writings of Enid Blyton.
Hunting down and gobbling up each of those titles was a pure delight.All the titles in the Famous Five series is written based on the same simple formula - a band of four kids (Julian, Dick, George and Anne) and their dog Tim going through one wonderful adventure after another chasing mysteries and unraveling criminal plots - but the highly entertaining way in which Enid Blyton narrates these tales of adventure is something very unique.
I read the whole series (all 21 books) when I was about 13; those were the first books I read in English.
I liked the relationships (that was the time when I dearly wished I had siblings), the companionship and the good old picnicks in the woods/fields :)Looking back, I don't quite agree with the view of girls/women presented.
Still, at that time, while feeling most kinship with Anne and being drawn to Georgina, it didn't matter to me.
The books are a lovely memory of my first brush with English "literature" :) and therefore very dear to me.
I loved this and I knew I would as it's a childhood re-read.I had forgotten a lot of the details and this book still had me at the edge of my seat at the age of 21. I just love it. I recommend you read it, even if you think you've outgrown it! A classic, fun, tense, warming, summery read.I feel at home reading it.
Ένα μικρό, μονοήμερο διάλειμμα από την ''κανονική'' αναγνωστική μου ροή, με ένα βιβλίο από την παρέα που μικρός είχα λατρέψει. Το διάβασα χαμογελώντας.
I thought I have to go back to the past, when i only ten years old chubby kids with a simple mind to fully enjoy this book.
But, a 25 years old chubby guy with a jumbled mind will do too.
I want to be a part of Julian and the gang too.I found several interesting words that we'd never found in the children's book these days: awfully, jolly, golly, gay, and queer.
Oh golly, imagine how queer the moms face if they found those two latter words.And oh it must be jolly to have my own Timothy and be gay with George, Julian, Dick, and Anne.
It was a good story :)I enjoyed it very much :D
หาสหายผจญภัย ฉบับพิมพครบรอบ 75 ปี สนุกตามแบบวรรณกรรมเยาวชน นีกลับมาอานตอนโตแลวรูสึกมันเวอรวังมาก เกงเกินเดกไปแลว มีแอบหวาดเสียวตอนฉากไมปักแกมแลวเลือดไหล (นีกแอบเหวอ วรรณกรรมเยาวชนมีเลือดออก) เออ..แตมันสนุกนะ อานแลวไดกลินอายชนบทอังกฤษยุค 70-80 ปีกอน นีเคยอานแลวกลับมาอานซำยังอดลุนตามเดกๆ เวลาเจอสมบัติดวยไมไดเลย
ห้าสหายผจญภัย ฉบับพิมพ์ครบรอบ 75 ปี สนุกตามแบบวรรณกรรมเยาวชน นี่กลับมาอ่านตอนโตแล้วรู้สึกมันเว่อร์วังมาก เก่งเกินเด็กไปแล้ว มีแอบหวาดเสียวตอนฉากไม้ปักแก้มแล้วเลือดไหล (นี่ก็แอบเหวอ วรรณกรรมเยาวชนมีเลือดออก) เออ..แต่มันสนุกนะ อ่านแล้วได้กลิ่นอายชนบทอังกฤษยุค 70-80 ปีก่อน นี่เคยอ่านแล้วกลับมาอ่านซ้ำยังอดลุ้นตามเด็กๆ เวลาเจอสมบัติด้วยไม่ได้เลย
Die offizielle erste Geschichte der Fünf Freunde - hier im Hörspieluniversum jedoch Nr. 20! Und die ist so gekürzt, dass man wirklich nichts davon merkt. Auch sind alle schon Freunde, ist das im Buch auch so? Ich dachte, da muss George noch mehr warm werden mit den anderen. Egal, die Folge ist recht spannend und vieles passiert auf der Felseninsel. [11.10.2018]
... reading with my 9 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. This book is the second book by this author that my daughter and I have read together. She loved it dearly.
There was a time when Enid Blyton books were the only books I’d read.
Highly unlikely, but I can certainly see why they appeal to kids.I don’t think I will now go on a Famous Five re-reading binge, but I might pick some of the ones that sound the most interesting and (re)read them at some point, and see if they jog any memories for me!
MY FIRST BOOK.Não me lembro de ser nada de especial, mas foi com este livro que a minha aventura literária começou.
Tinha oito anos, quando adoeci e a minha mãe começou a ler-me esta aventura, em voz alta.
Foi aí que a minha própria aventura começou, esta paixão por livros e palavras.
Com aquela idade, não era normal ler livros com mais de 100 páginas, despojados de figuras.
A partir daí, fui melhorando a agilidade na leitura, treinando o pensamento, melhorando o vocabulário, imaginando até mais não.Deliciei-me.Devo a este livro todos os outros nas estantes.
Mas, livra, é dos livros por que tenho mais carinho.
I really like this book. It makes me want to go on holiday and explore old ruins. It's a really good adventure story and I like the characters. My favourite is George because she is bold and brave and I like her dog Timmy, he's funny. I think girls would like this story most but boys might like it too.
It felt so good to read this book again... there’s so much I remembered and so much I had forgotten from my childhood.Yes, it’s a kiddish book... written for children but just to read about the little adventure of the famous five... brought back so many memories and made me enjoy so much!The food and Tim... all so cool! So glad I read this again!
Scratch almost any author writing in English, and Enid Blyton (and very probably The Famous Five will be there).
It's true, they're all there.I read only one or two as a child; my sister was the Famous Five freak in the family ...
and maybe that's why Harry Potter is such a big seller these days because its what every child dreams of.
I read Blyton as I do any other author, with my critical mind on high alert for stereotypes and always asking myself who is not represented and why that is so.
the emptiness you feel when you realize that তিন গোয়েনদার 'জিনার সেই দবীপ'is actually a copy of this book !!
the emptiness you feel when you realize that তিন গোয়েন্দার 'জিনার সেই দ্বীপ'is actually a copy of this book !!
Got every piece of the whole series as my precious collection, yet unfortunately I lost them in a way or so.
Not getting the same joy from reading a real book, but hey...
there are more books in the series I'd like to re-read again.
Unexpectedly, they got caught in an exciting adventure together.
On the other hand, I liked the way friendship grew between the three siblings and George in this first book.
I could perfectly catch every member's character of the five, even Tim.However, in overall, it's a good start for the next book to come of the five series.
Edited 8/22/17.A friend asked me about Enid Blyton, and I remembered reading this book recently and being uncomfortable with its character portrayals.
(*Hint: Some of it was about George's gender identity, and I wanted to say something I was convinced Blyton didn't do well, but it came out being completely tone deaf.
So I'm no good at gender issues either, mercifully I'm not a published author nor do I have any wish to be).Anyway, I'm scrapping the initial review and leaving with this, which was what I wanted to say anyway: I really do not like the voice, I don't like the portrayal of George, Anne is my favorite character and I absolutely HATE what Blyton has to say of only children.
Ah, the Famous Five!
I haven't read these books since my age was still in single digits.Re-reading them as an adult, their appeal is their innocence and the joy of recalling how I used to think my friends and I could have adventures just like the Famous Five!
This book brought a big smile to my face.There's another level of enjoyment to be had reading this book as an adult with a twisted sense of humour, as hardly a page goes by without some kind of unintended sexual innuendo...
at least, I'm pretty sure it's unintended.Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray.
I loved this series as a child - the characters, the adventures, the mysteries to solve and the food was fascinating to someone growing up away from England. But I recently re-read them with my children and found them sadly dated. My young boys liked the plots but the attitudes and values of the characters were vastly different to theirs today.
Pure magic, still love it to this day. Still remember it to this day.I think it is timeless, even anyone reading this today wouldn't feel that the story is set in the mid 1940s.particularly the end was thrilling.
Loved the famous five books when I was a child my children and Grandchildren loved them too.Still have my Enid blyton club badge somewhere. How's that for nostalgia.Recommended.
