https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34898.My_Father_s_Dragon
My Father's Dragon is a childhood favorite that will never get old. It's a perfect read out loud story for young readers. The black and white illustrations are delightful and it's a story that will be enjoyed forever. 5*****
More than her big bubble of candyfloss bleachblonde hair and her Savage Tan, I remember her gravelly Virginia Slims voice.Near the end of every school day, before the bell rang, Mrs. Palombi would turn the lights off, have us put our heads down and read to us from My Father’s Dragon, Mr. Popper’s Penguins and James and the Giant Peach.
The endpage map of the islands is also especially adorable.)The “father” of the title is one Elmer Elevator, polite, cool under fire, and an absolute sweetheart in a jaunty little cap.
My kids loved this book (and its two sequels) when they were young.The narrator tells about his father's adventures when he was a boy.
When a baby dragon falls from the sky, the animals on Wild Island tie him up and force him to ferry a raft back and forth across the river for their convenience.
There are lots of talking animals on the island - some friendly, but mostly dangerous - and Elmer must use his courage and wits to save the baby dragon.
Overall, it was a lovely enough book that it is worth a read, but I don't think this is one we will revisit.Both of my littles sat while we read this one over a few nights.
I mean, that's gotta be a win right?The story was cute and there was plenty of silly fun and adventure on the island but there wasn't much to encourage the commentary that I have been enjoying while reading chapter books with my kiddos.
Overall, it was a lovely enough book that it is worth a read, but I don't think this is one we will revisit.
6 year old little: "Mom there are talking animals in this, that means it's fiction."
(Upon my discovery of the Table of Contents, I thought its purpose was so that you could go there and decide which chapter you wanted to read instead of having to read through the whole thing.) Years later I remember having loved it, but very little about the story or the characters, so I decided to give this short Newberry winner a quick read, and it was very quick indeed.
Told from the point of view of the main character's son (referring to the adventures his father had as a boy), this is the story of Elmer Elevator's journey to Wild Island to rescue a baby dragon from the enslavement of the lazy and selfish animal inhabitants.
Annabelle give it 4 Stars.I thought it was a good book.Why?
I liked reading them to get a chore done.Would you recommend this book to others to read?Yeah, I think other people would like this book.Like who?I think Adelyn and Trinity might like it.What would they like about it?I think they would sort of things some things would be a little silly.What was silly?Like, lions using brushes and combs and getting hair bows in their hair and getting braided.Anything else?Let me see...
Yep. Two boars thinking it was a trick, and it was not a trick.
It is a very fun and clever children’s read with some great lessons and some wonderful illustrations.When Elmer Elevator hears about the plight of a poor overworked baby dragon from an old neighborhood cat he is determined to save the dragon.
He travels to Wild Island and, through a series of crazy events, saves the dragon from the animals keeping it prisoner.This book was first published in 1948 and I am amazed at how well it has aged.
They match the tone of the story excellently.Overall a wonderful fantasy read for children.
My Father's Dragon is a perfect first chapter book to read to your four or five year old because there are pictures on almost every page.
Both of my sons and my daughter count it as one of their favorite books from childhood.Briefly, it’s the story of Elmer Elevator, a nine-year-old boy that sets out to rescue a captured baby dragon.
It's the perfect mix of adventure and intrigue, without being too scary.A heads-up: Keeping in mind that the book was written 60 years ago, there is a sentence in the first chapter that says his mom whipped Elmer.
okay so recently I haven't read any real books.
I will start actually reading again soon I just needed a moment of calm to get through the stormrecently I've started a habit of rereading.
I mean are books as good as I thought?
I mean I was historically quite a little idiot (just wait till I reread nothing but the truth).
I mean now I feel like it would be hard to solve problems the way they were solved in this book, give a tiger chewing gum.
The writing isn't as polished as milne, but it's much better than the dahl I've reread.
In return, the cat - upon hearing Elmer's wish to fly - tells him about a baby dragon that is being held captive on the far off Wild Island.Elmer sneaks out of his house one night with chewing gum, two dozen pink lollipops, a package of rubber bands, black rubber boots, a compass, a toothbrush and a tube of tooth paste, six magnifying glasses, a very sharp jackknife, a comb and a hairbrush, seven hair ribbons of different colors, an empty grain bag with a label saying "Cranberry," some clean clothes, 25 PB&J sandwiches and 6 apples.Each chapter is about Elmer trying to get past an animal that wants to eat him or hurt him in some way.
After a hard morning of sickness, I put my cranky 7-year-old son in his bed to rest, and began playing this audiobook from my phone to catch a few minutes of child-free peace.
Not only did he listen to the whole book (it takes a little more than an hour), but he then listened to the two sequels, AND asked to listen to the first book again.I was so pleasantly surprised, I decided to listen to it that night after the kids were in bed.
Delightful! The short chapters follow a pattern so cale was really able to remember what happened I the story. Only 10 chapters. Great place to begin reading aloud!
This would mean that ole Lewis Gannett, a daily book critic for the New York Herald Tribune, had a daughter, presumably by another marriage or that he was a widower, named Ruth and then he went out and married another woman, named Ruth, right?Anyways, there are two sequels neither the Meteor nor I are interested in reading, Elmer and the Dragon and The Dragons of Blueland.
The first book really worried 4-year-old Logan.
He didn't understand why the animals were being so mean to the baby dragon and each chapter brought new worries about what the animals would do to the boy.
He liked the second book better.
The third book was brought more worries about what would happen to baby dragon's family.
After we'd read them all, Logan wanted to re-read the second book several times and then we read the family reunion chapters of the third book several times.
This book was recommended to me by my dear friend (and kindergarten teacher) Megan.
The kids really loved it, especially Mimi.
It was written in the 1940's, so there were sentences like: 'She whipped my father and threw the cat out the door", which became, 'She punished my father...' when I read it to the kids.
Things like that.
But the kids really loved it and were hanging on at the end of each chapter.
Maxwell seemed to especially like this one.
Some of the wording is a bit awkward and old fashioned, but it was a really big hit and a great recommendation.
Thanks Megan!
One of my all-time favorite children's books.
A great first chapter book for little ones! My 4.5 year old & I both loved it & couldn't wait for bedtime to read another chapter.
This was a cute story that I read to my kids. There are just a few pictures that sort of helped my 3 year old stay engaged but she was mostly distracted. My 5 year old loved it though and was so excited to read our two chapters each night. The little boy in the story is always coming up with creative ways to overcome the challenges he faces in the book.
Read this to my kids (ages 4 and 7) and both enjoyed the adventure. Simple illustrations that were just enough to help my 4 year old enjoy it. Looking forward to reading the second one to them.
Utterly charming and imaginative story and wonderful illustrations, too. I got quite a chuckle out of some of the drawings. No wonder this has been a popular childrens' book for so many years.
At the end of the book, this is what my 7 year old son seemed most taken with - the idea that he had thought of all the things he would need to keep him safe.
And, of course, he loved that a little boy was able to outsmart the crazy rhino and angry tigers.
I didn't love reading it out loud as much as other chapter books, but I can see myself getting this one from the library again when my 4 year old son decides he can follow a story from one day to the next.
A great starter chapter book.
Pleasant little illustrated chapter book. "My Father" sneaks to an animal-ruled island in order to rescue a baby dragon. Will add to review after testing it on the kids.Update: DS5 & DD3 thought it was great, and liked the way Elmer used his inventory of random objects to triumph over the dangers of the island. Grew on me with re-reading, too. Raising my rating from 3 -> 4.Available on Gutenberg, despite its relative recency.The following site has an excellent overview of the book, its publishing history, a biography of the author, etc. https://sites.google.com/site/myfathe...
Excellent choice for an introductory read-aloud. I am trying to transition my daughter to picture-less read-alouds, so we can start digesting some exciting favorites. But, she's been on a diet of picture books and loses interest quickly. I was stunned when she wanted me to keep going with this story. I forced a stop for a couple hours (mostly to reinforce the idea of a book that can be read in multiple sittings), but she was more eager to finish than I.It's a story of kindness and ingenuity without overtly making the point.
This is another children's book that I read to Jack. We were packing for the beach when I started it...well, Jack did not want me to put it down. We would have to do a task and then read another chapter. We actually read the book in one day, which was exciting to me because he has never been so captivated by a longer book before. Since I can relate to the feeling of being desperate to know what "happens next", I willingly gave into his wishes and kept reading!
Just looking at the cover of My Father‘s Dragon instantly took me back to memories of the large children’s room of the local Carnegie library with its walls and alcoves lined with books, including this story about a young boy setting off to rescue a baby dragon. I was a little surprised that the part of the story I remembered best were the curious contents of the boy’s backpack. How did he know exactly what to bring? Still a delightful read for the right reader.
This was a childhood favorite and one of the first books I remember reading. I actually own a very old copy that belonged to my mother and her sisters when they were young girls. Several years ago I read this aloud to my two oldest kids and recently realized I needed to read it to my middle son. He loved it, thought it was very funny and is eager for me to read him the next book.
This is one of my favorite books from when my kids were little. THis is the first chapter book that they read. Each chapter was self contained. The hero is able to use his intelligence and creativity to solve the problems that face him. Highly recommend it as a way to get kids hooked on reading...
Fun story with great illustrations. Perfect beginning chapter book.Edited for 2017 read:I read it to my son this week. He regularly made me read more chapters than I had planned to read, and was wide-eyed with excitement the last three chapters. He also took my copy and put it on his bookshelf, because apparently now it is his book. Which, really, is how it should be.
This book features an exciting liberation story and an egalitarian friendship between a little human boy and a dragon. When I first read it I don't think I yet had the understanding to see it as a story of oppression overcome through solidarity, but that's how I see it today, and I don't doubt that it had an impact on my social consciousness.
Lovely little adventure story of  boy who travels to an island and meets many intriguing creatures. The story never feels contrived. Recommended.
