https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1735608.Firefox
- and that the much anticipated 'Firefox' premiere missed my birthday by a month.
Then my Father pulled out a surprise present - and encouraged me to take it up the garden to open on my own (usually an indication of it being something my mother would disapprove of).
There -In the dappled sunlight under the willow tree -I unwrapped Craig Thomas' Firefox.
I finished the book the next day under the same tree - and instantly started reading it again.
I've re- read it many times - along with the several follow up books - each time my heart racing at the perils encountered by Mr Gant.
The terrifying true story behind a popular web browser.
I was a kid when I read this book and am giving it 4 stars because being a young naïve child of the Cold War, it was exciting and certainly showed us putting on over on the "bad guys".
Those to young to remember need to recall this was in the bad old USSR days before Gorby and Glasnost - the time of the show The Americans.
I suppose if I reread it now, it would sink into ignominy like the other books I read as a young reactionary WASP growing up in the slowing latinified Miami of the TV show Miami Vice and all (all that Tom Clancy Republican propagandistic crap, etc.).
Craig Thomas is only scantly mentioned when people talk about the techno-thriller genre, but he definitely should be mentioned along side the likes of Robert Ludlum and Tom Clancy. Firefox is written in a very particular, almost staccato, style that can be a little hard to follow at first, but it has a way of instilling you with a sense of the frustration the characters are feeling. Well worth a read if you enjoy Cold War era thrillers.
They used to have colour pictures in them to entice readers to them and I remember stumbling across one by Craig Thomas.
Now years later I have found my Craig Thomas stash (ok it found me when some of my book stacks collapsed and revealed my collection) So I sat down with Firefox and remembered not just the aeroplane but also the cold war espionage and intrigue - this book really was from another world, the days of the cold war and constant secret wars of trying to out do the opposition (never went quite as far as calling them the enemy).
Back when the US was still in the Cold War with the USSR, the idea that Russia had an aircraft so far superior to anything we had or could possibly conceive of, and could blast any plane we had out of the sky...
The idea to sneak a pilot into the Russia base, and steal the aircraft by flying it back to the US, was written very suspensfully.
That the one and only pilot the USould find who had the capability to fly this jet fighter, was also on the verge of a mental breakdown, only added to the thiller.I didn't think the movie did the book justice.
-En su estilo y en su tiempo, una pequeña joya. Aunque ha llovido desde entonces.- Género. Ciencia-Ficción (aunque sea por poco). Lo que nos cuenta. Cuando la URSS desarrolla un cazabombardero invisible al radar, que supera Match 5 y que tiene un sistema de armamento guiado por impulsos neuronales, los servicios de inteligencia occidentales más potentes son conscientes del desequilibrio de fuerzas que supone el nuevo avión y trazan un plan para hacerse con uno de los dos prototipos existentes, infiltrando al experimentado piloto Mitchell Grant en territorio hostil.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Four stars might be a bit generous but this has such a cool premise: the Soviets have a new super Mig fighter that's way ahead of the West.
The early passages drag a bit as our boy, Mitchell Gant, is spirited from Moscow into the top secret airbase.
The "battle scarred Vietnam vet" was a bit of a staple for 70s & 80s thrillers and he has all the usual PTSD flashbacks.
I like classic Cold War thrillers as it's easy to spot the villains (ie.
The Sphere paperback edition with the Chris Moore illustration (strongly resembling the fighter design from the film) is a nice book to own.
Having seen the movie prior I had some idea about the story line.
of course, the movie, while definitely enjoyable, didn't do the book full justice.
The character of Gant seemed to be quite flat in the film, while here you felt his emotions more.
they were detailed, but not too detailed to the point where a person would be out of their element and become lost or bored with the story arc.
Overall, a very well written, enjoyable read.
at times you could easily visualize what you were reading.
It made the story really come alive.
Decent spy thriller written in 1977. An American pilot is given the task of stealing a Russian fighter jet that is far more technologically advanced than anything the U.S. has at the time. If you are able to suspend belief in real world physics and logic, it is a thrilling book. Don't apply real world logic or it falls apart.
In my memory, this is the first book I read. A book which made me realize there's more action in reading than watching a high-stakes Hollywood action flick. Had me glued to the edge of the seat throughout! Much love.
The Russians have developed a super Mig (thought controlled missiles!) and the US and Britain need to steal it so that there won't be WWII part two.
They sneak a guy named Mitch into Moscow and kill some people so he can sneak into the base and kill some other people and steal the jet.
He flies out of Russia with it and it's a real white knuckler.
Zero tits.For whatever reason I wanted to read this book before seeing the movie starring Clint Eastwood as the Mitch character.
(42% on Rotten Tomatoes).
I can say, less people die in the movie.
flying dead man !
Very good book. It is a cold war spy thriller where Gant is recruited to steel the Russian Mig-31 plane called Firefox.
Synopsis: his name is Gant, a renegade American pilot. He's out to steal a Soviet MIG named "Firefox." Great movie.
The book is just slightly better than the film but I will give the film a ton load of kudos for getting so much of the book on the screen - Film Gant is more distraught than book Gant over his capture and torture in Vietnam- Book Gant is not 100 years old like the film Gant (apologies Clint Eastwood but you kind of looked half dead then)- Book Gant infiltration into the Firefox complex is more exciting than the film.
If you have seen the film...you...have...kind...of...read the book, so you don't have to bother.
This gives a book more depth and scope while remaining marketable.The drawbacks of this story are that it was one of the last movies (thankfully) to play on the cliche of the haunted Vietnam veteran and that, like most movies written about the near future, it missed a lot of its' predictions.
In fact, the assumed level of technology is far more advanced than current world technology thirty years after the story was written.Those drawbacks are why this action packed, otherwise realistic novel does not deserve top marks.
-En su estilo y en su tiempo, una pequeña joya. Aunque ha llovido desde entonces.- Género. Ciencia-Ficción (aunque sea por poco). Lo que nos cuenta. Cuando la URSS desarrolla un cazabombardero invisible al radar, que supera Match 5 y que tiene un sistema de armamento guiado por impulsos neuronales, los servicios de inteligencia occidentales más potentes son conscientes del desequilibrio de fuerzas que supone el nuevo avión y trazan un plan para hacerse con uno de los dos prototipos existentes, infiltrando al experimentado piloto Mitchell Grant en territorio hostil.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
The Cold War did do two good things: one of them was, the advances in adaptive technology, for instance, Wheelchairs and a good background for authors. This is a primary example of the later the later, and a really fun read. With the protagonists being engaged in the subterfuge that leads to the stealing of the MiG 31, with fictional thought control technologies. The action sequences, especially late in the book are not to be dismissed and the final crescendo in the book is exciting, even though inevitable.
10p from a second hand shop !
Donna Tartt mentioned she was reading one of his books when she was on tour (to a somewhat confused silence).Probably better known as a film - the second book was a result of the film rather than book sales.
Efficient thriller although it is now showing its age (there is only one computer in Russia and a lot of squabbling over who is going to use it).
The main character is the best pilot out there, and if you forget it don’t worry, it will be mentioned again and again before the end of the book.
Daaamn, this is the first book that I read in english, back when I was 13 or 14. It was so hard to move from page to page back then! Anyway it's your regular crappy Cold-War-paranoia fueled adventure story about a spy stealing a new super MiG fighter plane THAT CAN READ THOUGHTS. That's right. There's also a movie about it with Clint Eastwood... I think I saw the ending on TV once. I don't think it was particularly good either.
Great story, easy to read. You get caught in the story and read quickly. The characters are hard for Americans to understand, assuming they are real to begin with. We don't have average guys willing to die to help an espionage mission may or may not be able to go forward. But the story goes quickly so you can easily follow the hero American save the day, despite his faults.
Firefox was so over the top when it came out. This was the first "adult" book I read. Recently, I found a copy in a book store and I re-read it. While it was a bit dated, the characters were vivid and the story still seemed fresh. It was quite a bold plot of the Americans attempting to steal a jet so deep inside of Russia. I am glad that I read it again and it is a definite recommended read.
This is an adventure story that is very much based in the time when Russia was a communist country. It is an old fashioned spy/ espionage story and moves really quickly. The hero, Gant, is not a very sympathetic character - but his skill as a pilot is amazing. The ways in which the characters interact with each other is interesting - I do wonder how much of this still goes on now.
The traumatized war veteran called upon to defend his country has been done many times before (and better). The novel gets a decent rating because it takes the action movie route - it realizes there isn't much of a story so turns itself into a page turner with chases, escapes and of course dogfights with the help of the eponymous fighter aircraft. Quite enjoyable and forgettable.
Actually saw the movie first before I got to the chance to read the book. I have it 4 out of 5 stars because for me the aerial dogfight is not much and the focus is more on the character stealing the MiG-31
This was a fast paced, suspenseful, action/espionage story. The language may not be for the young, but the characters are well developed and sympathetic. You want Gant to succeed in his mission. You hurt when some of those he comes in contact with give their lives for this mission.
The book was okay. I have always liked spy thrillers set in the cold war context. And, this book was no surprise. Although, for some reason, expected to enjoy it much more than I actually did. Remember the Clint Eastwood movie that I watched when I was in school in the eighties.
2* It might have been just me, not in the mood for this style of book. I didn't find the main character Gant to be at all inspiring, likable, or sympathetic. The pace of action finally picked up about half way through the book.
I read this back in the early '80's, just before Andropov was named leader of USSR, so it was kinda interesting seeing his name in the novel. I remember the novel being kind of slow moving at times and the setting painted as a very bleak place to live. But, I do remember enjoying it.
