https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5585788-skinwalker
3/25/18 - ON SALE for $1.99: https://amzn.to/2um9TAy3/11/17 - rerereread b/c Steven is PERSISTENT. Minus 0.5 stars from original rating, b/c I bloody hate Rick, the slime.Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsUrban Fantasy is a pretty diverse genre. There are all kinds of twists on various folklores and mythologies, as well as multitudes of different takes on a myriad of supernatural creatures. We all have our favorites (and not-so-favorites). For me, if it has something to do with the Fae or Native
Right.She motors up (on her badass, one-of-a-kind motorcycle) to Katie’s Ladies (a house of ill-repute) to finalize her contract with Katie of Katie’s Ladies, who is on the New Orleans Vampire Council, and who is hiring Jane to find and kill a rogue vampire who has been terrorizing the city, killing both vamps and humans.And Jane is very good at her job.There are so many things I love about this book that I think I’m going to have to make a list.
Yes, TWINS.And that’s where I’m going to end this expression of fangirlishness (but only out of self-respect, not necessity).Skinwalker by Faith Hunter is the brilliant beginning of the Jane Yellowrock series.
Jane rides into town on her motorcycle Bitsa ("bits of this, bits of that"), interviewing for a job with the New Orleans vampire clan, hunting a rogue vampire that is tarnishing their reputation and hurting their position with the police.
We did get one girly scene of her shopping and then dancing, which makes me wonder a little if Hunter is trying to be all things to all readers.
While it doesn't avoid all of the UF tropes, Hunter does a nice job of making a strong, distinct female character.
3.5 starsI wasn't sure what to expect from Skinwalker when I picked it up, but I knew Jane had a pretty big following among my friends and I was hoping that this might become my new go-to urban fantasy series.And I'm thinking it might!
Turns out, there's quite a bit of history she's forgotten...Fast forward to the present, and she's (basically) a bounty hunter who goes after rogue vampires.
And this is how the story opens, with Jane arriving in New Orleans to hunt down a strange rogue that's killing humans and vampires alike.Honestly, I thought this was pretty good for the first book in a series!
Actual rating: 2.5 stars. Because I'm in a good mood today.Disclaimer: I read this book only 10 days ago and can hardly remember the story. This should be a fascinating review. Then again, I was recently told my reviews were offensive, so all is not lost. You might get bored but at least there's a good chance you'll feel outraged about all this. Muahahahaha.►► Presenting... Adventures in Lowered Ratings, courtesy of Faith Hunter my failing memory! 1 to 50% = OMG I can't put this down, this is 4-
Adventures in Lowered Ratings, courtesy of Faith Hunter my failing memory!① 1 to 50% = OMG I can't put this down, this is 4-star material!✔ You create an awesome, badass chick of a lead.
YES!☢ Uh-Oh material: ✘ You use short-sentence structure.
Which makes this poor little reader's head hurt really, really bad.✘ One of your very manly characters is named LaFleur, aka "the flower" in French.
③ 70% to 100% = WTH happened I am now considering giving this a 2.5 rating?!✘ It's official, your exciting, original plot is actually nothing more than a standard, average UF story.✘ You're full of blah-blah-blah and boring-boring-boring.
Urban Fantasy fans have seen skin walkers (though with different magic rules attached) in Kevin Hearne’s 2012 Iron Druid novel Tricked, as well as Bill Schweigart’s 2015 novel The Beast of Barcroft.What makes Faith Hunter’s protagonist stand out, first of all, is that this is told from the perspective of the skinwalker (as empathetic protagonist and not unsympathetic antagonist) but most noteworthy that Jane kind of shares the body with the Beast.
Jane is a web site optimizing vampire hunter with her skinwalker abilities thinly veiled.Like Kevin Hearne’s Iron Druid series, part of the charisma of Hunter’s creation is the history she weaves in to the story.
Usually, I'd find this realistic and even enjoy it since I don't like errors in continuity; if you started to prepare tea, it's only logical that after a few minutes it's ready.
Jane doesn't just "prepare the tea and pour a couple of cups" before the conversation continues.
Why can't they be more straightforward and say it like it is?" Then, she would start the bike and turn west saying "I need to find more information about this." There was a lot of head-scratching during this novel.Beast's voice was sort of interesting for like… three paragraphs, then it became tiresome.
Add to it the world building, the search to find, engage and eliminate a rogue Vampire who is eating people and other vampires and smells really funky while doing it, and the setting of New Orleans and a cool background story, and we get to solid 4 stars at least:-) Now, there was some plot meandering, but it was usually brought back under control pretty fast, so I say, the book is a winner!The story was suspenseful, interesting, and ended up with a bang!!!
I would recommend it to all who love the genre or are looking for something to entertain them for a while:-)I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!
Just so you know, I hate myself when I do this but I just cannot read this book any longer.
The one thing I am keen to know more on is the recipe for Anton's beer baked Cajun crayfish.
I can't slate this book because it's not bad as such but it is bland.I'm sorry author and GR friends I can promise you I tried but after I caught myself daydreaming about how long my Costco supersize roll of bin liners would last me I thought it best to call it a day.BTW - my best guess is 5 months.
Skinwalker by Faith HunterPublished 2009, RocStars: ★★★★★Review also posted at: Slapdash & SundryThis book was HELL YES I LOVED IT good. Interesting premise? Check. Badass main character? Double check, actually. Twisted plot? Check. Unique take on vampires? Good enough for me, check. Really cool superpowers? Check. Female MC not afraid of sexuality but not obsessed with it either? Check.Jane is a BAMF. TOTAL BAMF. Throw Beast into the mix, and you've got "one" awesome main character.I can't wait to get my grabby hands on book two!
3.5 StarsTime for a new UF series buddy read with.... Jane Yellowrock is an interesting heroine to base a series around. She wasn’t exactly what I was expecting because she is a shapeshifter. Not a were, that is different she actually can take the form of almost anything given the correct genetic material. But she also shares one body with something she calls beast and I liked the way that this is explored in this book. When she is in Beast’s form those are the thoughts that are in the forefront
There are also hints that perhaps later in the series we will see some were-somethings and Fae. I liked Jane’s witch BFF and the cutest little girl, I really want some extra time with them in future installments.I don’t know a lot about Native American culture so that was a good addition to Jane’s overall character depth and matched up with her skinwalker nature as well.
She seems like she is a pretty badass chick most of the time.The only thing that I’m not in love with was that for a while in the middle it turned more PNR than UF where everyone wants to sleep with Jane.
Her business card and website humorously read “Have Stake, Will Travel.” While investigating the rogue and solving that particular mystery, she’s meeting the fascinating characters – supernatural and non – that make up the cultural town.
Between exploring the town in lion form, exploring the streets in human form, spying on secret rituals by other paranormal races and awkward but enlightening vamp soirees, the book takes one addictive turn after another.Jane is downright intriguing after all, although I prefer the books later when she’s more at peace with Beast and knows more.
Jane Yellowrock, a shape-shifting bounty hunter, is hired to hunt down a rogue vampire in New Orleans.
Jane bemoans how much she has to eat all the time because shape-shifting takes mad calories, and makes fun of women who eat salad.
Given that the worse anyone does is check out her irresistably hot legs?) Jane goes to an authentic New Orleans cafe and is more mystical than the Magical Negro behind the counter.
I wish I were exagerating!Jane Yellowrock is the most annoying try-hard version of Anita Blake I have ever read.
In fact, even Anita Blake is not as annoying as Jane.
This is more of a 3.5 star book.Jane Yellowrock is one bad ass main character. She rides Bitsa (bits of this-bits of that motorcycle), carries a big gun, lots of weapons and oh yeah she can change into animals. Mainly a mountain lion named Beast. I loved the setting in this book. New Orleans with lots a vamp action. There isn't any sex in the book but sexual attractions that Jane has with some of the characters.Well and me developing a girl crush and wanting to hump her leg.
This 2009 novel owes quite a bit (a bit too much for my money) to Moon Called, which was published three years earlier, and the Mercy Thompson series, which also has a Native American shapeshifter heroine who's pretty much the last of her kind, mixing with other supernatural beings (more werewolves in that case; mostly vampires here), but if you like that type of urban fantasy you'll probably enjoy Skinwalker.Jane Yellowrock, our main character, can shapeshift into various types of animals; there's actually some interesting scientific discussion about how the shapeshifting process involves DNA and sometimes adding and subtracting mass using nearby rocks and boulders.
Jane has come to New Orleans to hunt down an unknown rogue vampire, a serial killer of both vamps and humans.
Wednesday UF buddy read with my friends over at BB&B  Jane Yellowrock is a skinwalker, a human who can change shape into any animal. But unlike other skinwalkers, she shares her body with Beast, who is the soul of a mountain lion. Jane is an excellent vampire hunter, and the successful completion of her last case has given her an excellent reputation, which is why she’s been hired to hunt a rogue vampire who is killing in New Orleans.  There she not only learns more about the inner-workings
I just love heroines who know how to kick ass ;-D And then there’s Beast, the mountain lion she shares a body with.
I love shifter books, and I particularly liked how Jane and Beast are two individual beings, who try to live in harmony in Jane’s body.
I also loved the mystery about Jane, and how there were parts of her past that she couldn’t remember, she couldn’t even remember how Beast became a part of her.
There were quite a few interesting secondary characters, like Jane’s best friend, Molly, who is a witch.
4.5 stars.You know how sometimes you see a book or series popping up on your GR feed and you're just not sure if it's for you?
You add it to your tbr list- you take it off again- you hmm and ha..it becomes annoying because you know now you will have to read it just to see..
normally when I am undecided in this way, when I eventually cave in and read the book, my worst fears are realised and then I can say to myself 'see?
I really enjoyed Jane and Beast and a load of vampire clans, their blood subjects and a whole supporting cast of people and supernaturals.
I actually liked the vampire elements in this book.
I can almost believe that New Orleans is run by ancient vampires, with their own intricate society, forming an intrinsic foundation for the infrastructure of this old, beautiful lady of a city.By far, my favorite element of this story was Jane's Cherokee heritage.
I think Jane is a great main lead, and I like pretty much everything about this first book in the Jane Yellowrock series, the skinwalker elements, Beast's personality, Jane's Cherokee heritage, and the action and sometimes horrific urban fantasy elements.
Not the protagonist, not the potential love interests (but I thought they were cads, so maybe that's a contributing factor ^_^).
But there were bits of plot that seemed promising, and some character dynamics that were interesting: Jane's relationship with best-friend Molly and Molly's daughter, for instance.Having said everything above, I do in fact wish to read the next book in the series.
There were many moments where I thought to myself, "ooh, this looks promising…" which is a promising occurrence in and of itself.
It's the first book where I've seen this and I absolutely loved it!I felt like reading Faulkner's The Sound and The Fury, where you see the story from the "crazy" person's POV.
Plus, it's been a while (a long while!) since I last read a book that actually managed to surprise me and well, what can I say, I'm a sucker for the unexpected!
Really worth giving it a try, if you want a change of pace and, especially, a chance to get inside an animal's head and see a story form a different POV.Faith Hunter, cheers!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
In this series-opener, Faith Hunter has created one of the most original and vividly-realized fictional protagonists to come down the pike in a long time, and established herself in my eyes as one of the genre's most outstanding contemporary voices.The book trade classifies this as "urban fantasy" (a terminology I'm not crazy about, but which is ingrained in the argot by now).
The author makes low-key, but explicit use of Christian content in one or two places, in a way that's natural to the story and not off-putting to open-minded secular readers.
Well, I'm putting this down for now.
I'm at 23% and it's not clicking with me.
I don't really like Beast, to be honest.
I don't like reading those sections where Beast takes over and talks in Jane's mind.
On ledge, one, two stories.
Too high to leap.
It clung to window ledge.
High, to roof-top, running.
Wild.That is just hard to read for me and slightly annoying.
But it seems like a decent book in other ways, so maybe I'll come back to it some other time.Buddy Read with the awesome MacHalo Group on September 21, 2015!YESSSSSSSSSS.
Got a bit bored here and there but overall enjoyed it. I couldn't connect completely with the main character, Jane, but I did like her. I didn't much care for Beast, I mostly skipped her parts, the writing from her POV was too confusing for me. I'd have also liked a bit more romance, there was pretty much nothing except for the flirting. As for the love-interests, none of those guys really excited me, so a bit of a disappointment as well. I found some stuff lacking but I think I'll still give the second book a try. :)
Yep, loved it just as much the second time around.Buddy read with my UF Wednesday pals over at Buddies Books and Baubles. :)
The one who recommended it knows I really don't care for...friendly, kind, romantic (or sparkly) vampires.So please friends forgive me...we all have different tastes and no matter that I really wanted to I just couldn't like this.And I really did want to.
What we DO get is Jane panting and going on and on about hot vamps and how long it's been since...and of course Beast wanting her to get "laid" by a vamp, a bad boy or pretty much anyone or anything in pants.I just got sick of it all.I went from like, to annoyance, to dislike, to anger and finally didn't even read the final chapters.
I loved the fact that Jane has not one, not two, but three (five, if you count (view spoiler)[Brian and Brandon-the twins (hide spoiler)] *grin*) leading men (I'm a sucker for love triangles or squares in this case): (view spoiler)[Rick, Leo and George, a.k.a. Bruiser (hide spoiler)].
I'm going to start the second book right away, just can't wait anymore, especially because I want to see what her punishment will be for (view spoiler)[killing what looked like Leo's son.
I bet Leo will be creative *wiggles eyebrows* (hide spoiler)].
Skinwalker is a dark yet thrilling novel, giving an unexpected take on the paranormal subgenre with a great main character. I think the book was quick to go straight to tropes, but otherwise I really enjoyed it.
27 January 2016: $1.99 on Kindle21 August 2014: $1.99 on Kindle - I've been meaning to give this series another shot. I think my previous thoughts might have been mostly timing.I can see the potential but there's not enough here, in either character or plot, to keep me wanting to read more. Stopped at 37%
I’m still sitting on the fence about Jane Yellowrock, but there are some threads of the story that give me hope for the series.Faith Hunter, the author, attended a conference here in Calgary a couple of years ago, which put Jane Yellowrock on my radar, but it’s taken me a while to get to her.
Like Jane, Faith claims Cherokee heritage which is reflected in this first book.
I’m assuming that this story line will also play out in future installments.The vampires are both scary and attractive—power apparently has that effect!
A Cherokee descendant that has received a rare paranormal gift that she does not have much background or knowledge of.
The story had just the right amount of characters and paranormals to make it exciting but not over the top.
New Orleans was a great backdrop for a rouge vampire hunt.
The choppiness of the verbiage while she is in her skinwalker state is a little off putting but did not upset the canter of the story.
I think this hit on all four cylinders and I was happy to find this new author.
She is someone you'd want to get to know.As you can tell from my description of Jane, the main draw for me while reading Skinwalker was the main character but the other characters were just as interesting.
I was so immensely curious about Jane and finding out who was the rogue, that Skinwalker was constantly on my mind when I wasn’t reading it.
I'll have to admit that the beginning of this book, it took some getting use to the inner dialog between Jane and the Beast.
After reading those, I'm of the opinion that the Jane Yellowrock series is a must for readers of urban fantasy, an absolute must read.
