https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618174.Moonheart
My own affinity for Kevin Hearne’s Iron Druid series about an ancient Irish druid living life with his wise cracking hound in modern times was much pleased with de Lint’s tales about a Welsh bard and lots of otherworldy goings on.Set in and around modern day (1984) Ottawa, de Lint draws his readers in to an urban fantasy gem.
Orson Scott Card’s Alvin Maker series began in 1987 so it is possible that he too was influenced by de Lint’s writing.Fun and original, urban fantasy readers will like this.
De Lint's use of the Celtic and North American Indian mythologies as the foundation of the story made it all the more enjoyable as they are not often portrayed in fantasy.
There are so many memorable characters that it is hard to pinpoint any one that stands out above the rest, but characters like Pukwudji and Tamson House itself showed De Lint's incredible talent for creating interesting charcters.
De Lint is a true talent.
This was my first exposure to de Lint and I will certainly be reading much more of his work in the near future.
Moonheart has its flaws, and it probably won't appeal to many, but I give it a 4 for the intersection of (1) weird/made me think (2) well-written, if not "literary" (3) Native American/Celtic lore (4) Tamson House.The story weaves between real-world Ottawa and "the Otherworld", a land of myths in which legendary creatures and powers manifest.
Finally, perhaps my favorite aspect of this story, is the centrality of Tamson House, a magical and mysterious haven and character in Moonheart.
So based on Tamson House alone, I'd rate this book as a 4/5 (I am not to be trusted).Not highly recommended, but definitely highly enjoyed.
What develops as the plot is good versus evil with the simple twist that the good characters are normal people like us that have no idea what they are doing and must learn how to use a whole host of new abilities they did not know they have.
And the evil character is the physical manifestation of one good man's lust for revenge.
De Lint may be a little clunky in the narrative of his characters' thoughts, a little dry in his setting descriptions, and a little corny in his random name-dropping of folk musicians (We get it!
a really, really difficult read.
it might work for a young teenager.this was one of many books by the author that hit the user-selected top 100 books of the 20th century put out by some publishing group, i forget who.
at the time i was making an effort to go through and read the top 100 picks from both the academics and the popular list.
this book was the highest rated by this author.
if this is his best book, i would never dare open another.poor characterizations, uncompelling plot, lack of dramatic tension, and very non-scary monsters.
i guess it is popular because it is about earthy magic.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Sara and her uncle Jamie live in Tamson House, the old family mansion that takes up a street block in Ottawa.
Sara and Jamie’s interests collide when Sara discovers an old gold ring that seems to draw her into an ancient past — a past where Welsh and Native American mythology comes alive.
But not only does the ring pull Sara in, it draws Tamson House, and all its occupants, with it.Moonheart was a truly satisfying read for me.
In each of these stories, an old house exists in both the modern world and on the edge of an old dark forest full of myth and legend.
Charles de Lint has the wonderful ability to simultaneously bring the fantastical down to earth, and make the mundane utterly magical.
Maybe this was really only a three star book, filled with a few too many characters and storylines and sudden endings and twists that don't quite make sense - not to mention the not one but two cases of insta-love.
Nothing so far has deterred me from my mission (or is it quest?) to read the entirety of de Lint's works, and this flawed but lovely little mini-epic has taken me one step closer to that goal.
Moonheart was a truly satisfying read for me. I fell in love with Tamson House, its magic.This is the first book I have read by Charles de Lint and I will go looking for more.
It's a book with an incredible magical house (the best part of the whole book), Ottawa Mounties who investigate the paranormal, and melded Celtic and First Nations mythology.
It feels like a huge, deep fantasy, and is original in so many ways.Yet uneven in others.
It didn't help that a large number of characters were bland stereotypes.
Pretty much all of the native characters came across that way-not negative stereotypes, necessarily, but tired ones.
Same with a major Celtic bard, too--he was paint-by-numbers in every way.
The house is the best part.
This is a very early Charles de Lint book, about a modern-day magic house, a druid, a Celtic bard, Native Americans, elves, wizards, um, am I forgetting anything?
The Native Americans are humorless native warriors who live in teepees but have a strong tradition of association with the spirits, the Celtic bard talks like, well, a Celtic bard from legend, etc..
And I was deeply dubious about the idea of Celts coming over to America in pre-history, but it turns out there was probably a weird influx of Irish monks around 600 AD, who lived with and traded ideas with the Native Americans.
Who knew?Anyway, fun read, and my kids and I were fascinated by the magic house.
Who among you remembers the first book you read?
So, I did what I could, mostly snitching school books to read from my older cousins.
Being six years old and sneaking my cousin's high school mythology books from her room.
I fell into the story, into it's world of myth and legend, and became an Urban Fantasy fan for life.
While most mythology of the time retained the ancient characteristics of other myths and legends, Moonheart brought the stories into the modern day, creating the modern Urban Fantasy genre.
I need a 'I can feel the soil falling over my head' shelf. Or maybe a 'bored before I even began' shelf.
Some readers will appreciate some of the overlap from traditional fantasy to detective novel, complete with police reports, inspectors, and the stereotypical hard nosed cop.
While it added novelty there were moments when I found myself skeptical; when cops are shooting tragg'a (demons) from a metaphysical "Otherworld" the crossing of genres became too much of a stretch.
When taken as a whole the moments where de Lint is at his best make the cross genre weaknesses worth the effort.
His mixture of Français québécois (Quebec French) and English is charming, his descriptions of Ottawa entice the reader to visit[1], and his exploration of Celtic and Native American mythology is fascinating.
Going through storage boxes in the back room, Sarah finds some odd but intriguing items, including what appears to be a ball of clay but turns out to have a golden ring hidden inside.
From that day on, strange things begin happening, and soon Sarah finds herself in Otherworld, a forested land where magic operates on certain fairly clear rules, and Sarah must learn how to use her ring to defeat an entity who is evil incarnate.
While she is in Otherworld learning, Tamson House is under seige from a magical attack.
It's a good thing the house is very protective of its residents.
Yes, it is going to be different from newer urban fantasy, but it wasn't the slow pace that bothers me.
It just felt like it was from a different time, and that I would have had to be alive then to appreciate it.
The style just really didn't sit well with me, and of course the plot, characters, and setting weren't that appealing to me either.
It would be like reading an urban fantasy twenty years from now that was just published recently.
I understand that all of those things make books relevant to the time, but something was lost in translation here.
Not my style.
2015 CHALLENGEI'm challenging myself this year to read 3 books off of this Readers's Top 100 list: http://www.modernlibrary.com/top-100/...I'm going for the least sucky looking ones that I haven't read, and which aren't 777 pages long. :-) I will choose from the books on this shelf..................Moonheart was okay. That's really all I can say - it was interesting enough that I didn't give up on it, but not nearly compelling enough for me to read more in the series. That's all I'm going to say about this one - which is a good sign of my ambivalence, I suppose. :-P
This book has many elements I like - contemporary Canadian content! Ancient Celts! Native Americans! Shapeshifters! Music! But it never adds up to a whole that makes any sense, and none of the characters are particularly attractive, nor do they seem at all real. Even the city of Ottawa feels nothing like the city I know. This is the 3rd de Lint book I've read; at this point I must draw the conclusion that he simply doesn't speak to me.For a review that perfectly expands on my own sense of the book, see http://www.amazon.com/review/RW6NCQUD...
My first brush with Charles de Lindt, when I was 16.
The first time I fell in love with a character in a book!
(This was before I met Heathcliffe, but Blue, the biker shaman in Moonheart, knocks the socks even off him!) I love the way that de Lindt moves his stories effortlessly between the *real* world and the *other* worlds that he writes about.
If anyone has been there, along with Brian Froud, it's him.
He's not as well known in the UK as he is in the US, which is a shame.
Should be shelved alongside Neil Gaiman.
I read this in college after a friend strongly recommended it. This is easily a world that you can fall into, with believable characters in an unbelievable world. The best way to describe this book is an "urban fantasy," but it's more than that. There are dusty bookshelves, mysterious artifacts, a house that transcends earthly limits, a biker dude named Blue, a computer named Memoria, and Native American rituals. This is a great way to introduce yourself to Charles de Lint.
I loved this book when I first read it (20+ yrs ago?) and the at least 3 times I read it since. It's been at least 5 years, so it looks like it's time again. I never considered it to be urban, didn't even know the term the, so I am very interested to see how I view it through my slightly older eye.
review to come :)
(I assume that de Lint did this in order to justify why Jamie has such an awesome house, but it’s fun to watch him twist himself into knots justifying how Jamie and Sara can be such down-to-earth people despite their insane wealth.) We meet Kieran Foy and his mentor in all-things-magery, Tom Hengwr.
Don’t get the wrong idea: like all of the main characters, Sara changes throughout this novel, and de Lint spends a good amount of time depicting it.
It’s been a long time since I have read such a nice, original urban fantasy story.
I wrote a very long review for this - Goodreads ate it.
Sigh.
Now to try to replicate.
Or at least sum up.This book is a product of its times.
There is a long drawn out beginning - like the first 55%.
There are unpronounceable names.
Mix all this up with time travel, and you have a very confusing story.
At the very least, we could make the names memorable and less confusing.
The last half takes off - but it is a bit late.I did care a bit about the characters.
And, I cared enough to finish.
I had read several works by de Lint and liked them all.
Then, suddenly the action ratchets up around page 350 and all the characters begin to weave together into the primary plot line.
The great story that has been hyped suddenly presents itself over the final 80-90 pages.Overall, I liked the story and enjoyed the weaving of fantasy and modern mystery.
As one of the fore-runners of today's Urban Fantasy, this is a great book in many ways.
If you like Urban Fantasy and want to see one of the original stories that got it kick-started as a genre, then read this.
Sara Kendell finds a medicine bag and a remarkably clear picture of two men in the back of her uncle’s store.
She and her uncle, Jamie Tams, live in Tamson House, a large and magical home, located in Ottawa.
Around the same time, Kieran Foy arrives in Ottawa looking for his magical mentor whose bond to him disappeared recently.
This magical mentor, Tom Hengwr, is not to be found but we do discover he is looking for the bard, Taliesin.
Taliesin is one of the men in the picture that Sara found.
My favourite character in the book is Tamson House itself, followed closely by Sara.
I think if I'd tried reading this book in the late nineties, I would have actually made it all the way through.
I wouldn't have seen anything wrong with the way the main characters were all so quirky they could barely function in the "real world" and how they're portrayed as 100% RIGHT for doing so.
I hadn't moved to Boston yet, so I might not have read "Yaqui Way" as "Yawkey Way." I also had teenage self-esteem and would have assumed that it was completely natural that every woman in de Lint's books is described as a waif with delicate bones and huge eyes.
I had read de Lint's The Riddle of the Wren years ago - around 1980, if I recall - and remember nothing about it except the cool cover, with its Celtic-influenced design.
Then a friend passed Moonheart to me as a must-read, and I was hooked.De Lint's storytelling web is woven out of European folk beliefs, Celtic myth, Native American practice, that little niggle inside your head telling you there's more to certain places than meets the eye, mysterious pockets of forest amid an urban setting that feel like they could easily be home to a band of faery, those recurring dreams where you find a hidden door in your house that leads to a previously unknown treasure trove right next door...
The book which was my introduction to Charles de Lint.
One of the most unforgettable characters in this book is actually a house.
Even though the plan faded away after Bonnie left us, it is still an excellent idea for a way of living.As to the rest of the story, it was one I felt immediate kinship with as though I could have found myself written into the pages and not have been surprised.Charles de Lint blends elements of Nat. people's and Celtic mythology, music and magic into his stories.
The characterisation is a little uneven, and there are almost too many characters to keep track of at times.
Even de Lint himself in the afterword admits it's not the book he set out to write, and not the one he'd write now, but he resists the temptation to "fix" it.And I'm giving it 5 stars anyway, because any book that sticks with you for 25 years, and still gives as much joy to read now as it did then, has to be worth that.
Even just looking at it sitting on my shelf, next to a hardcover of Greenmantle I picked up a couple of years ago, makes me happy.
This is an urban fantasy that delivers on every promise it makes; unlike many of the current crop, this book gives you characters to really care about, as opposed to making the protagonists nearly as unlikable as the antagonists. Well worth the read for any who like Celtic mythology, shamanism, or just a little magic in your everyday.
