https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177869.Bellefleur

BELLEFLEUR by Joyce Carol Oates is ranked as one of my most favorite novels of all time...I love this book!
It possesses a life of its own, the characters became ghosts that would haunt me after setting it aside after a short reading and I would look forward to picking it up again.
Each chapter is an opulent sliver of time that peers into the lives and thoughts of the residents of Bellefleur Manor, an American family of notorious distinction.
If you read this book with a rigid, black and white mind-set you will come away frustrated by it.
Novela gótica, saga familiar, realismo mágico, Bellefleur es una novela absolutamente fascinante, plagada de excéntricos e inolvidables personajes, una obra inmensa.A pesar de sus más de 900 páginas, si pienso en todo lo que me ha contado Oates aquí, en todo lo que he vivido con los Bellefleur, me parecen pocas.
Tantas generaciones, tantas relaciones, tantas vidas e historias perfectamente diferenciadas...Me parece magistral cómo maneja el tiempo, cómo pasa de una generación a otra, incluso en el mismo párrafo, cómo los sitúa a todos en una época mítica, de leyenda.
Una vez se construye la mansión es casi como si el tiempo se hubiese detenido.
One of those long reads that most either seem to love or hate.
I'd only read short stories by Oates before taking this one on.
My advice to anyone planning on readng it is to abandon the thought of a linear structure as a novel and take it as delivered; a series of episodes or short stories as chapters of several generations of the Bellefleurs in their castle above Lake Noir.
There is love, betrayel, vengeance, madness, magic and mystery, a shapeshifter, a hermit, a murderer and a ghost or two.
Yes it's long, but once you give yourself up to it, Bellefleur is pretty good company.
I enjoyed this book tremendously. It's a Gothic tale and a family saga that may put one in mind of Marquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude: in both tales, reality must be suspended, time skips around, and the endings are similiar. However, Bellefleur is written in a completely different style, and its scope is larger. The characters are intensely real. It's a sensational book!
An immense tapestry taking in centuries."A little over 100 pages into this novel I stumbled across the above lines, and even though I had another 500+ pages to go, I instinctively sensed that I had discovered the key to this immense, sprawling narrative, a description of what Oates was attempting to accomplish with Bellefleur.
In this way I was reminded of Oates's own description of another novel that often came to mind while reading Bellefleur:"Wuthering Heights...
There are numerous flash-forwards, as well; and a mirroring of characters across generations."*Reading back over that description of Brontë's novel, it seems clear to me that this was exactly the modus operandi behind Oates's own work.
I am only a few chapters in, will check back laterIt took me a long time to read this book.
It was nearly 700 pages long, and just not my cup of tea.
The reason I picked this book up was because it was listed as a gothic novel.
I never really got a good read on the main character in the novel and at two or three times I felt the urge to just stop reading this book and pick up another one instead.
They can be read in any order.Bellefleur tells the story of the Bellefleur family, a prominent and wealthy line who own a large amount of land in the Adirondacks as well as a large mansion.
The novel jumps back and forth and tells the stories of six generations of this family, from its lunacy to its failures to its triumphs.
It's more surreal than supernatural, and these elements are very rarely the focus of one of the stories.The biggest strength of this book is the creation of a history.
This book is a long one, but is classic Joyce Carol Oates style.
She doesn't always prescribe to conventional uses of punctuation and will continue a thought for line after line after line, but there is a strong flow to her stories that I find addictive.I enjoyed this book a great deal.
It is a really long story, and everything is interrelated but you don't always see it.
I love the flow of the stories (it is kind of like a bunch of different short stories together) and the way JCO writes.
Overall, it's a great book.
So atmospheric! I vividly remember Leah throwing open the door in a rainstorm that wildly blows and soaks her peignoir and lush hair for a cat named Mahalaleel! I remember a huge drum on the stair landing made from a man's skin. I remember a spinster sister visited my creatures resembling vampires. I remember Mink Pond, debt, despair, the grinding away of love. I remember too many children, too many kittens on an overgrown stone patio. It was sort of like experiencing an opera.
Seems to me that you either do or do not like Joyce Carol Oates and your reasons are as varied as the temperaments of her abundant books. (Perhaps no reason is more fitting than poet Michael Chapman's, who liked her because she was always holding a ball-point pen in her cover shots.) This was my first Oates adventure and it was a consuming experience. If you delight in vacationing in exotic books, have a taste for the gothic and other-wordly, then this is a must-read.
This is probably one of my top books of all times.
You could call it a saga or an epic, and it is lush, sweeping and fantastic, often blurring the lines between sanity and lunacy, the real and the supernatural.
Oates never quite makes the distinction between what is perceived and what is truly there, leaving the reader to decipher the reality of the Bellefleurs through their eyes.
This book is long.
This book is wordy.
If you don't like intriguing, labyrinthine writing that's a journey into itself, perhaps you'd be better off sticking with something a little more simple, like Twilight.
Bellefleur is a law unto itself and a standard in literature.
In my English class junior year, we had a choose an author and write a critical paper about several of their books.
My 8th grade English teacher highly recommended Joyce Carol Oates, so I decided to read some of hers for this paper.Why I chose this tome is beyond me...
The writing style she adopted for this novel was so long-winded--I'm talking parathetical thoughts that go on for three pages.
The time frame of the novel was weird too--for some characters the novel took place over a couple of months, for others it was decades, and the landscape seemed to change like millenia had passed--which, once I finished reading this, was how much time I felt had passed as well.

Bellefleur, the mansion, is Bellefleur the family, is Bellefleur the story: a sprawling, fantastical caricature of an American dream/ nightmare; characters and settings stretched to their own hyperbole bringing their darknesses into the light; a pervasive meanness and decay that disturbs; and yet an attraction that grabs a reader and pulls her through the myriad of seemingly disconnected bits to a comprehensive whole, but leaves her wondering…
(However, there is a "present" of the book where the main action occurs; this is during the time that Germaine Bellefleur is a young child, and she is what I would call the main character, if I had to name one.)Speaking of time, Oates is definitely playing games with it in this book.
Clearly time does not proceed at the same rate for all family members.Even more puzzling is the case of Jedediah Bellefleur, one of the earliest family members, who spent twenty years of his life, from 1806 to 1826, living as a hermit on the top of Mount Blanc.
If you like meandering gothic tales this is for you.
While I do enjoy gothic tales sometimes Oates is a hard writer to follow, and then I feel rather dumb because I feel like I am missing an important point.
I did not feel like I engaged with any of the characters, as there were a lot of them, spread over a vast amount of time, sometimes with the same first name.
The writing is rich and this is a great example of the gothic but I do like my reading to have a little more structure.
I really enjoyed Bellefleur. This story of the Bellefleur family covers about 7 generations of crazy-brilliant nutjobs. Oates moves back and forth between generations and I was dizzily flipping between pages and the family tree in the front of the book at first. But then the Bellefleurs become your crazy, wealthy, mentally unstable family and who doesn't love that? The ending was crazy and not really in a great way, but the book was, overall, really quite good.
I give up. I spent days with this and actually got to page 300 something - beyond halfway. But I'm cutting my losses. Life is too short to keep reading what I'm not especially enjoying and what I think won't be rewarding to have finished. The people are just sick.
Chaos.
What started as an enjoyable book, ended as a crazy mix of 500 characters, 50 different stories, and unexplained paranormal and psychic activity.
Oates is an incredibly inventive and imaginative writer, that’s a fact, but this book surpassed my patience.
Not to mention the writing is too detailed and full of side stories and clarifications, half of which could have been omitted.
Even though I enjoyed some of the stories and found them very captivating, my impatience to finish reading it and the felling of “unfinishedness” kind of ruined this book for me.
Ode to joyce.
This is literature as it's meant to be.
"Bellefleur Manor was a horrific place - it was so inhumanly large - he hadn't remembered how large it was: ah, what a horror to contemplate!
What sort of mind, driven by an unspeakable lust, had imagined all this into being?
The castle ...
the castle's grounds ...
the mountains in the distance: a terror to contemplate: and beyond them, sprawling out on all sides, a greater horror, that entity glibly referred to as the world.
What maddened mind, deranged by an unspeakable lust, had imagined all this into being ...?"
Finished this for 10/17 readathon (www.deweys24hourreadathon.com). I really liked this, but I prefer horror to be scary rather than disgusting and this went a bit too far for me in places. I was fascinated, though. This is a contemporary take on the Gothic novel covering several generations of a very messed up family. I didn't particularly love the characters, but I loved the narrative voice -- lyrical and haunting.
I give up. I have tried and tried to read this book, and I just can't. The writing is lovely. But mother of god, where is the plot? Just pages and pages of description of very unlikeable people, and not a story line in sight. Life is too short.
I haven't finished this, but it will be a while before I get back to it.
this is one of those books that I was really looking forward to reading -- I gave up about a third of the way through -- and this experience really soured me on her writing
I'm done with family epics for a while. admirable weaving of storylines, but I didn't enjoy the storylines.... like 100 years of solitude but way less fun. I disliked every character except mahaleel and that was a CAT.
Ms. Oates builds this long, sprawling novel with long, sprawling sentences filled with parenthetical asides and a boatload of commas.
Led by the beguiling Leah, (“If any Bellefleur succeeded in this century, it would be Leah”) the Bellefleur women propell this family — and novel — forward.
Are the strange visitors to Bellefleur castle—the great cat Mahalaleel, (“You’re a poor lost thing, like any of us,”) Love the pet spider (…his gloved hands acted as if by instinct, as if, in the dim Bellefleur past, they had killed many a Love, just by holding it fast, gripping it fast, and squeezing…), abused orphan Little Goldie, the troll servant Nightshade—ghosts of family members come back to haunt the manor?
L’auteur ne nous propose pas d’intrigue à proprement parlé, mais une suite ininterrompue d’anecdotes, où les époques se croisent, se mélangent, pour laisser de temps en temps la place à la dernière génération des Bellefleur, celle qui tente de reconstruire un empire tout aussi morcelé que le récit lui-même.
La folie, la passion, le désespoir et la mélancolie sont les moteurs principaux des Bellefleur.Ce roman fut le premier best-seller de JCO, et n’est pas sans rappeler Nous étions les Mulvaney, écrit bien plus tard.
I can’t go too long without reading one of her books, my mind will start to itch.From reading snippets of her 1973-1982 journal, I gathered that writing is almost a spiritual experience for her.
You’re whipped along on endless thought patterns - the writing is like a maze, provoking and inspiring and beautiful - evoking inner images that are intricate and riddled with meaning, and then you’re whipped back to the original storyline again - everything messily separated by commas and brackets.
This is different from her other books, it is more ambitious, more thought-provoking, more confusing, the writing more beautiful.
I had to pause several times to get through it, but then immediately I had to return and read it again.
Because the characters and their stories span many generations, it can be a challenge to keep up with how everyone relates (to each other and the story), but Oates has this effortless voice that puts the reader right there in the action.
I’m not sure I entirely grasped this element of the story, but it was incredibly interesting.As stated earlier, I loved Oates’ voice throughout this work because it put me in the story.
I also really enjoyed the theme of family identity and how it changes yet stays the same, as its something I explore frequently in my own work.I highly recommend for fans of Joyce Carol Oates, literary fiction, and American Gothic.
