https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317333.Micromotives_and_Macrobehavior
It's hard to know exactly how I would feel about this book if I hadn't had phd level micro economic theory before.
Schelling doesn't assume a strong background in economics or game theory, and (it seems to me), he takes up a great deal of time explaining concepts like multiple equilibria, externalities, best response functions (although he doesn't characterize them that way), and the prisoner's dilemma clearly and carefully.
For the reader already aware of these fundamental concepts, Schelling is at his best when he highlights how small individual preferences can lead to large scale undesirable social equilibria.
Published in '78, it's the spiritual forebear of "Freakonomics," in that it is about applying economic reasoning and analysis to situations that don't involve the exchange of money for goods and services.
I'm not even really a fan of "Freakonomics," but it is more enjoyable than MM because it focuses heavily on specific real-world issues.
He discusses some issues of real significance, such as residential segregation, but not once does he take his models to the real data.
If I had read it when I was first being exposed to economics, I imagine it would have felt more engaging; as it was, it just felt a little flat.
And therefore achieving a big picture policy target is intimately connected by the natural constraints of the problem, or by the actual incentives for people on the ground, or by the way heterogeneity in responses interact as we scale up.
(For comparison, Dante's Inferno is 10/10) P.S.: For economists: The gene selection chapter does seem to talk about the Angrist-Evans instrument well before the famous paper was published (this refers to a famous paper by the Angrist and Evans who wanted to study the effect of family size on parents' labor supply).
Not that Schelling wanted to use it as an instrument as far as I can see.
Yah, begitulah peraih Nobel Ekonomi ini. Game Theory itu tak lebih dari sekedar prasangka saja...Direkomendasikan kepada : Orang kiri yang mau membaca "sastra" orang kanan.
I found Schelling's book to be rather light reading, but that didn't stop it from being both enjoyable and informative.
Like some other reviewers, I thought that the book didn't really hold together as a unified whole, but that wasn't a huge problem.
The Nobel Prize lecture, disconnected as it was, was very interesting, and ties into the rest of the book in intriguing ways, with its suggestion that "irrational" behavior, such as joint subscriptions to taboos which seem to make no sense in specific circumstances, really improve utility for everyone.
Schelling provides some interesting insight on a myriad of economic/social issues through the lens of an economist. There are certainly more entertaining books written by economists, but this book is worth reading.
In their own right Chapters 3 through 5 could stand on their own as an instructive presentation why social scientists (particularly economists) use models, and more importantly how they can be employed in a useful way.
I feel this section would have much better served the thesis of overall book if it had just asked "what if we could choose" (maybe a small paragraph stating that this might actually be possible in the future) these characteristics, and then looked at the aggregate results generated by individual preference choices.
The last chapter which presents strategic binary choice models comes off as less intuitive than the rest of the book.
This book explores models and analytical methods to reason about patterns observed on collective population based on individual choices.
Author takes us through a range of examples to show how our (sometimes weak) preferences or preference from limited set of participants in a population can lead to interesting patterns on the aggregate.
It's also very interesting to see how it's not possible to use observed patterns on aggregate population to infer individual choices.
The last chapter introduced you to Game Theory but it's one of the hardest ones to absorb because everyday examples are used to explain these and they don't have the rigor to completely absorb the content.
This book taught me to think a little more analytically about what happens in standard situations when individual, free choices lead to aggregate behaviours that nobody wants.Schelling warns the reader that every depicted function is nothing more than what it is - a model, an ideal scenario, free from its subtle, but no less important features.
And that ability, I'd further suggest, may well come in hand in the future.Speaking of segregation and its dynamics, Schelling strongly opposes the view that such aggregate phenomenon has any social efficiency.
This work of Schelling as any by him has enhanced our understanding of conflict and cooperation thro
Chapter 7 (binary choice multi-person prisoner's dilemma) is enough to make you buy this book. The Nobel lecture on deterrence has a nostalgic feel to it.
Interesting take on aggregate decision making. I would have liked if he had proposed more ways to influence the group for the highest social effect.
The author wishes to explore the understanding if these interactions through the introduction of a plethora of different social interaction and group dynamic models.Critical mass is the amount if fissile material undergoing fusion that can energetically sustain itself.
The author likens this to many social phenomena such as attendance.Three different models of self confirming expectations: unilateral process of believing something about people, behaving towards them in accordance with those beliefs, and causing the beliefs to be confirmed, the reciprocal case where reciprocated attitudes and behaviors are in accordance with expectations, and the selective process that leads individuals who occupy particular roles to be obsequious or gregarious because it is widely expected of them.
Schelling obviously felt strongly enough about the subject to showcase it in such a public forum, but it failed to convey the essence of his own work, or suggest to any generation of economists why his work critically improved our understanding of human behavior.The chapters contained in this volume were never intended to be a book.
Contrary to Schelling's claims that, "In the end, though, they all just seemed to fit together," they remain clever thought pieces, but fall short of a compelling, unified whole.p.s. I'm still having trouble figuring out how this book had a 5.3 rating on a 5 point scale before I posted my comments.
In chapter one and two, the author gives many different examples, but not in-depth insights into each of those.
However, the author successfully illustrates how the concept of 'critical mass' from physics can be applied to human behaviors.
Chapter four interests me in that the mechanism of racial residential segregation explains geographic phenomena.
Chapter seven is the most interesting part--the author introduces the concept of uniform multi-person prisoner's dilemma and its extensions.
But, the author was poor at visualizing the concepts instead of words.
I can't understand why he often describes equations by words in chapter five.
He should have put more effective visuals or simple equations.
I was disappointed by this book.
I stopped reading closely about 32% of the way, and started skimming the chapters.
This book is very well written, and assumes almost nothing.
That was part of the problem: it was tedious to work through.
While I appreciated revisiting some very basic assumptions, revisiting tautologies such as the basic invariants in double-entry bookkeeping quickly got tedious.
Even the Nobel lecture reproduced as the final chapter was not particularly insightful.
I'm disappointed.
I can certainly see how reading this book would be immensely valuable to someone getting started in that line of work, and would highly recommend it to anybody in that position.
This is the second time I started reading this book, and it's the second time I had to stop early.
Today we have a lot of books that cast a wide net over the social sciences.
While Micromotives makes a lot of interesting observations, it does not have the breadth of examples and diagrams that the current generation has.I did enjoy the bonus chapter which contained Schelling's Nobel Prize acceptance speech in 2005.
It was about how large conventional arms buildups played an important role in preventing nuclear war by making nuclear arms seem more taboo.
The book itself is interesting, however, if you have had an extensive introduction to microeconomics before, you've covered a lot of it already. Furthermore, I would have loved a mathematical appendix, where he actually shows the calculations formally and proves some of his statements. At times I kept thinking about a problem fairly long until realizing that his understanding of the situation, i.e. his basic assumptions, were simply different than mine. Definitely not the path breaking book I thought it would be.
An excellent read. This is the seminal work on modelling of social phenomena. As economists go, Schelling is an accessible writer, with an understated wit. What little math is included is definitelymanageable - basic algebra - so your head won't explode, and the examples that Schelling includes do shed great light on the principles he discusses.The final chapter, on binary choices which influence others, did get a bit thick - a significantly more academic approach. I'm going to have to reread that.
There are many names you should know associated with game theory. Schelling is definitely one of them. This book is theoretically super-important and informative, but unfortunately not an interesting read for general audience. Games can be seen everywhere, ranging from seating in the cinemas, racial segregation and international politics. Schelling discussed them all. No math, but models and modeling thinking can be seen in each page of the book.
the book has great insights and mental models about how individual behaviors affect collective behaviors in a way that sometimes is counterintuitive.The contributions the author has made to better understand segregation and discrimination are of huge importance.The quibble I have is that the author often beat around the bushes too much in trying to explain his point and that makes the reading to be very exhausting at some points.
I really wanted to like this book so much. I'm very interested in the subject and I had high expectations. Maybe I'm too used to pop-sciencey books, but I didn't enjoy the presentation at all. It's unorganized, it drowns the really interesting points in whole sections of very detailed models that didn't manage to keep my interest, so I skipped a lot of parts. The conclusion sounds like it's from a different story and there's just no common point uniting this as a memorable book.
A book about tipping before "The Tipping Point" became faddish.Not quite as easy reading as the more recent books (Gladwell and others), coz this is written more like a course book. I took a while to get through it, but found it insightful in explaining human behaviour in different situations. (again, telling that the book was written before behavioural science became faddish)
I should have liked this book more. As it was it is a good primer to trends, analysis and how social theory. Its a little dated but still mostly readable. There are times when the book does slog though - the examples aren't always well described and sometimes the writing feels forced. Still, its one of those books that many people reference so its good to know the source.
I'm sure this is a great book, it seems like a Malcolm Gladwell-esque (except actually factual and rigorous) exploration of social behavior, it just wasn't what I was looking for: I wanted a book that was more about agent-based modeling. So I just skimmed it. But I'm sure if I wanted to take the time I would have enjoyed it.
quite an interesting book about micromotives and behaviors..we do what we wish/want to do as much as we express in microexpression...in larger context...nations are acting very obvious on what their invasion motives in which can be seen in daily lives..but have we noticed that? have we done anything to stop? or have we find the time to know the truth? most people don't, so small portions do..
It was quite refreshing; rather than being overly math intensive, it focused more on behavioral psychology and the role society's choices play in our individual decisions. Plus, it was entertaining how out of date it is!
129 pages in and it's still a very interesting read. I am amazed at how much is going on "behind the scenes" during normal, everyday interactions! It has given me a new outlook on social interactions and I will see it through to the end of the book!
Amazing! A book I will probably come back to as I see more examples of the concepts in everyday life. The central idea - that individual incentives often lead to collective results that aren't favorable - is challenging, simple and profound when you consider the examples in the book.
parts can be a bit of a slog so it's not the "funnest" book to read tho there are moments of real insight and interest
