https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121809.Tennis_Shoes_Among_the_Nephites
A lot of the funny moments wouldn't make sense and it's always a shame not to get a good joke.I absolutely thought that the main characters, Jim and Garth, were the perfect match to go back to the time of the Nephites and Lamanites.
When I finished I wanted to go right away and read the Book of Mormon and see how well the book followed the events that actually happened (well I am really going to do that after I finish this review).This book is the first of the series and I'm sorry to say that I know I won't be reading any of the others, even though I really did think this book was a real gem.
it makes you think how lucky we are to have the book of mormon.
My fourth time "listening" to this book as we did it for our book club this month (all the other women who read it also liked it) so I'll be starting the series again.
I can't read them anymore because they're too addicting.
Here's my review before if anyone's interested:You have to read this series!
VERY ADDICTING!
All Chris Heimerdinger's books are worth reading as he has a lot of others not in this series and his first movie based from his other book is out on DVD now "Passage to Zarahemla."
My wife loves these books so I thought I would give them a try.
I have to admit that I have always thought that Mormon fiction was a little weird.
The author uses a lot of creative liberty to make the characters in the Book of Mormon come to life.
Heimerdinger also sneaks in his personal viewpoints on different subjects, for example, when girls should start wearing make up.
The main character, Jim, becomes the mouthpiece for Heimerdinger and the book almost seems like he is trying to teach Sunday School throughout the book.
read this to my kids at night, they loved it!
I've started reading this book several.times and found it so boring I couldn't continue it.
The part of the Book of Mormon this story retells is full of intrigue and scandal; if you are unfamiliar with those events, this book is likely going to be really, really confusing.
This novel puts a lot of thought into imagining what life was like in mesoamerica as seen through the eyes of an "average mormon kid".
And I can read that in the Book of Mormon.*Edit: I listened to this on CD and the guy who reads it varries the volume of.his voice instead of the tone or pitch.
It is a story about a Mormon boy named Jim who is making a hard time for himself, hanging out with the wrong friends and such.
With a character like Jim I would've enjoyed almost any sort of adventure that would come his way.
As for Jim, his sister and Garth's adventure, I was surprised at how significant of a role they played without it seeming to change the way of the original Book of Mormon.
But I guess it makes sense since the Lamanites and Nephites weren't just made up of the big names like Amalaki, Moroni and Helamen.
I absolutely love this series.
I have read them several times and I never get bored with the story.
The narration is both humorous and adventurous at the same time.
Heimerdinger has a great voice.
It's as if the main character is your friend talking to you about his adventures, rather than you reading a narrative.
Heimerdinger's story concepts are original, but I feel the endings are rushed.
The series is still one of my favorites that I am sure I will read several more times.
I'm sorry but I just didn't like it. It was really dark and the kid was my age in the beginning of the book. I am LDS but this book was just to much for me. I mean he DRANK!!! I thought that was a little much because me, being 12, know a bunch of kids who would NEVER EVER do that. So I am sorry to the author and those who liked the book but this just wasn't my favorite. It was a little dark for me.
This was MUCH better than I thought it was going to be. I had avoided it for years because it looked like horrible Mormon fiction. The story is mostly well done, and I loved the little politics and bringing to life of Nephite life. The 2nd book was pretty over the top and unrealistic. (As in characters acting cheesy and stupid--not as in time traveling Book of Mormon characters.) So I don't know if I'll continue reading after Silver Sword.
Reading it to Garrett for story time!
Cute story. Enjoyed reading it with my son. Don’t know why I gave it a three, except perhaps is due to the fact I’m also reading David Copperfield which I find to be a much more compelling intriguing and advanced writing style. This book is this just fun.
I read this aloud to my kids. MD gave it 4 stars, CN-4 and MK-3.5. I gave it 4 stars. All three kids loved the story, but were frustrated with the ending. They really wanted it to be a true story.
The book Tennis Shoes Among the Nephites, by Chris Heimerdinger, is about the main boy, Jamie, called Jim, who becomes friends with Garth when Jim's sister Jennifer follows them into a cave, back in time.
I gave this book five stars because I have read a book with the characters that helped Garth and Jim, so the book's plot was easy to follow.
I also gave it five stars because a lot of the subjects it talked about I could relate to.
I can't believe I am just now reading this book to my kids, Jayden got it six years ago for his baptism and it's just been collecting dust... So we pulled out the CDs while driving through Utah and started the adventure! Great fictional version of true beloved Book of Mormon stories...my kids can't wait to start the next one!
So I've read this entire series, a long time ago, and I remembered that this first book was my favorite. It didn't disappoint as a selection to listen to in the car on our vacation. My family loved it, and I enjoyed hearing little bits of Jim's wit and commentary that I hadn't remembered. Some CDs are terrible when the author reads his own work, but that wasn't the case with this one.
I guessed the day I read this.. I think it was my junior year. I believe I read most of the series. I relaly enjoyed these books. When i read the scriptures, i would incorporate the stories and imagine what i had imagined while reading the books. It really helped to keep me interested in the scriptures. It was pretty silly when the kids that i babysat were reading the same book. :)
Not as good as I remembered, but since I read it the first time about 20 years ago, it doesn't surprise me that I am more critical of it as an adult reader. The ending felt abrupt and too convenient for the characters. But, that being said, I still enjoyed it. A good book to read while I feed the baby.
just read it again... I loved it 9 years ago when I first read it and loved it again this time! P.S. Let me know if anyone has a copy of the other books in the series :) I only got to book 5 last time but want to read them all again and the rest.
just started reading it! haha i noticed that you are too, brianne! its kinda weird i guess...i'm not that far into it, though. I just hope that Jamie (Jim, whatever!) doesn't tell somebody about the picture!
fun to listen to with girls on Sundays
I loved this book. I can't wait to read the rest.
This book is really good. it will keep your attention
It's been many years since I read this book but I know I enjoyed it because I still remember much of it.
I listened to this with my Ovard grandchildren on a trip. They loved it, for which I'm glad. I thought it was ok.
When Jim, Garth, and Jenny all go explore a cave said to hold a mystical room, they actually find it.
Only to their dismay, Jenny falls to the river at the base of the waterfall in the cave.
When they all wake up they find themselves in Book of Mormon America.
They have mighty adventures being captured by Lamanites, rescued by Nephites, fighting battles, and eventually making it home.
I thought that this book was fantastic.
It was so easy to see exactly what the land looked like and what the Nephites and the Lamanites looked like.
The teenagers are separated, and Jim must work closely with his friend Garth to rescue his sister, but will they ever make it back home?
While a fantasy adventure based on "Mormon History", the characters will certainly suck young readers in.
It may be inappropriate for the typical classroom due to its focus on the Mormon religion, and the writing may be clunky at times, but the author's efforts have won over this reader, and this book will remain on my shelf.
It was the first in a more than 10 book adventure series that has captured the minds of young readers everywhere.
3.5. It's always interesting reading books as an adult that you loved as a child. This book was MAGICAL as a kid. I loved it! My kids loved it this read through. For me - it was good but I wasn't as magical for some reason. Maybe because I've read some amazing books between the first read through and this time. The writing is what kills it, IMO. You can tell it's a first book, not sure if it's the authors first novel.
Read this in college, I can see it on the bookshelf right now, I just remember I loved it, but it’s been 25 years since I read it.
This was an adequate read. However, it was directed towards a younger audience so I got bored relatively often.
