https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785800.Dogmatics_in_Outline
Well, the "classic" work is the Dogmatics but honestly, who has time to read that monster?
Most of all, it was jarring to read this book during the rise of Trump, with so many Christians in America seemingly exchanging the morals they've expected in leaders (at least, that's what I've been hearing for my entire life) for a guy they think can win.
Barth lived through the Nazi era and makes reference to Hitler and the sell-out "German Christians" at times.
I do not think a Hitler is rising in America by any means.
I'm going to go ahead and give this book the coveted 5 star rating, even while saying that most people probably won't want to read it.
Barth's wording is dense, and his thinking and terminology is so outside-the-box that it often took me re-reading the same paragraph 2-3 times just to begin to grasp what he was getting at.
But I like to think the payoff would have encouraged me to keep reading, just like it did when I was doing it for homework.In the end, I have to acknowledge that this book does indeed deserve the 5-star "amazing" rating.
Brief summary of Barth's theology, using the Apostolic Creed as a basis. If only all religious thought were this rational.
The church as it moves into the modern culture24 April 2013 Well, first I should suggest that if you don't want to read me rambling on about nothing then you should skip this first paragraph, but then I am probably going to talk more about Barth and theological writing than this book because I read this book quite some time ago and not much of its content ended up sinking into my long term memory (or at least what I can withdrawal). However, it is ANZAC day today so I have the day off work (yay)
Karl Barth was a Swiss theologian, a contemporary of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, which meant that he was around during World War II when the German Church faced pressure from the Nazi Regime to conform to their doctrine.
When I did read this book I found that Barth was a very inspiring writer and explore numerous areas of Christianity quite deeply, which is not surprising since he lived during one of the most violent periods of the 20th Century, having seen two world wars and two economic crises.
This is the first book by Karl Barth that I've actually read, so I'm reviewing Dogmatics in Outline avowedly as a novice in Barth's theological world.
John Webster says that Barth "was always occasional and often polemical—directed to particular turns in the life and thinking of the church, concerned with clarifying the gospel now." So here again there is the possibility of getting lost without a guide—because his "now" is not our now.
8)It's interesting to note that these two comments on his work, although appearing two pages apart in the book, were actually given by Barth twelve years apart.
Read very slowly over many months. A wonderful little intro to Barth's theology by way of an exposition of the Apostles Creed. Some parts profound and beautiful; others a little esoteric and hard to follow. Regardless, a great little book.
A few thoughts while reading Barth's text:1.
Leonardo wants you to be present at The Last Supper.2.
Roman Catholicism led me astray.3.
Socrates was right when he said something like, "Life is a preparation for death."4.
The life of Jesus is historical fact and not myth.5.
If one doesn't enjoy life, one can't experience the joy of the resurrection.6.
T.S. Eliot and John Updike make a lot of sense.7.
Kierkegaard isn't the be-all-end-all.
Bergman, Bresson, Malick, Tarkovsky are the Big Four.9.
I need images of Dostoevsky and Kierkegaard as reminders.10.
I love Wilson, Coltrane, Dostoevsky, Kafka, Genet, M.
Two stars. I'm sure this book was better than was my reading of it, since Barth is a renowned and respected theologian. But I found this to be a tedious slog through a collection of assertions. Since God is wondrous, I expect books about him to be wondrous as well. That said, a person I read this book with loved it -- I mean, theo-swooning got-goose-bumps loved it. To each their own.
The language and density (of thoughts and concepts, not length) made it a slightly more difficult read, however there are many gems in this that stir the heart and awaken the soul to the mystery of our faith. I also loved that it's centered around the Apostles Creed.
If you want his Dogmatics condensed into 150 pages, this is the best place. Its really good.
I love Karl.
Very interesting and quite a few of Barth's main ideas on God, revelation and Christology can be found here. Revelation as the foundation for theology and the christocentric emphasis for that revelation. Also Christ is the site where theology and politics connect. Christ is also the evidence that God has identified with those suffering. A some point Barth is also pointing towards the ida that Christ is the reason for why God can relate to the creation as Other due to the doctrine of the Trinity.
I read this for my Christian Doctrine class, and it brought to light several concepts of Christianity. It's fairly dense, since it is a shortened version of a more massive work by Barth, but he bases the order of his points off the Apostles' Creed, so it is fairly easy to follow, and neatly structured. "Dogmatics in Outline" is a tough read, but it's worth it if you're looking for something to help you think more deeply about the Christian faith.
If there's one thing I like outlined, it's dogmatics. Would make a great Advent book - 24 short chapters - and a very good intro to Barth's thought.
This is an excellent, concise introduction to the Barthian way of thinking
A powerful summation of the Christian faith.
This book begs to be chewed on, digested, and set down for lots of thought.Barth challenges me to take seriously the necessity of the always-and-forever-ness of Jesus Christ, His suffering, and the practical implications that makes on my life.
The Christian faith gives a necessary impetus of sorrow of sin, thankfulness of God, and a new life.Favorite moments:Ch 10: Jesus ChristCh 15: SufferedCh 18: The Third Day He Rose Again From the DeadCh 22: The Church, Its Unity, Holiness and UniversalityCh 23: The Forgiveness of SinsI look forward to reading this again at a much slower pace, and hopefully in a group context for lots of discussion (and questions).
I particularly enjoyed the chapter on the Resurrection where he proclaims that we are living in this in-between time of the significance of the Resurrection already taking place and much of the benefits having invaded our lives now, but still waiting eagerly for his appearing to complete the full consequences of Christ's resurrection.I also enjoyed reading this because these lectures were delivered right after the mess of WW2 and it is interesting to see some of his comments on the Apostle's Creed in light of that event.The book must be read slowly and sometimes out loud to be able to comprehend everything that is packed into each sentence.
"Dogmatics in Outline" is a must for any budding theologian or pastor; and is written in an understandable way for the lay Christian.
Though no chapter is devoted to it, central to Barth's soteriology is God's union with man.
Through the incarnation, life, death, and resurrection of Jesus ALL man has been united to God, this is the grounds for salvation.
This union between God and man has been further developed by TF Torrance and other Barthian's.
Though not explicitly stated, Barth's theology resembles Athanasius' "On the Incarnation".
His theology is comprehensive of the different realms of theology, I wish he gave more Scriptural support in his Outline.
My only wish is that I'd found this book & read it when it was revised in 1959, just about the time that I began my theological studies.
Unfortuntely, I was distracted at that time by our required absorption of the Summa Theologia of Thomas Aquinas…certainly more important in my professors' minds that that heretical Lutheran, Karl Barth!
Not that I didn't also actually appreciate Thomas Aquinas, but this would've helped clarify so much.Barth wrote this some 10 years earlier and though it's not the Full Monty of his multi-volumed Dogmatics, yet to me it's not only refreshing, but an extremely well-reasoned, simply expressed, profoundly hopeful theological reflection on & expression of the meaning of Christian faith as summarized in the Apostles' Creed.
Barth is theological force to be reckoned with.
This book of his though, is very accessible.
He definitely deals with deeper theological issues, but this short 150 page book was derived from lectures he gave to lay leaders in German churches.
But he went on to write much, including his massive “Church Domatics,” which perhaps I’ll read one day.
As an introduction into his thought, I really enjoyed this quick little read, and I found it helpful for the same kind of people today he was speaking to then, lay church leaders.
Karl Barth, perhaps the foremost Protestant theologian of the Twentieth Century, set forth his understanding of basic Christian doctrine in this little book which was based on a series of lectures he gave to theological students in Bonn, Germany in 1946, the year after World War II ended. The book is organized by the shape of the Apostles Creed and discusses the meaning of each statement of that creed. An excellent introduction to Barth's theology and to Christianity as understood by the Reformed tradition of Protestantism.
Finally! I finished. This was the most challenging book I have read in quite a while. The ideas and thoughts are deep and it was just difficult to wade through. It was not a case that it was poorly written, it was not, it was just serious and deep. My son-in-law recommended it as he had read it in seminary and I am glad I forced myself to get through it, but it was work.
I read Dogmatics in Outline again after many years, and it seems even better than it did before. Most likely I understand it better. There is no better brief introduction to Barth's theology, and it is one of the best brief overviews of Christian theology ever. The book must be read slowly - every line counts. But it repays close attention. I'm sure I'll return to it again.
This is a great introduction to Barth's work. I think of this as Barth's version of a "Mere Christianity" by Lewis or "Orthodoxy" by Chesterton. It summarizes many of his main concerns and loves, while working through the basic tenants of the Christian faith as found in the Apostles' Creed. And unlike many of Barth's works, this is a short read.
A nice overview of Barth's theology, written by Barth himself. The name is a little misleading, because it's not an overview of his multi-volume Church Dogmatics. Instead it's a commentary on the Apostle's Creed, from Barth's theological perspective. Very fascinating book, whether you agree with Barth or not.
In 1946, Karl Barth returned to Germany to give a series of lectures on the Apostle's Creeds. He lectured without notes, literally standing among the ruins of World War II. The result is a wonderful reflection on the core claims of Christian faith, in light of our human failures. All Christians would likely find inspiration from a slow and prayerful read of his reflections.
An outline of Barth's definitive 13-volume work, Church Dogmatics. After a short introduction where Barth tries to make you feel bad for not reading the whole thing, this short book follows the creeds line by line to discuss the fundamentals of Christian faith. As someone without a theology background, I found this to be dense and difficult but comprehensible and ultimately rewarding.
Barth is one of those authors whose books, counter-intuitively are harder to read the briefer they are, as he tends to excise the more human/everyday dimensions of his thinking... leaving this to be more dogmatic and less immediately practical than it need be.
I cannot say enough good things about this book, probably one of my top 10 all-time. Although the monstrous Dogmatics will take me a lifetime to read, I plan to eventually tackle it. I could waste time rambling about what I liked but I won't. Just read it. This is a game changer.
These lectures on The Apostles Creed fundamentally outline his much later and weightier 8,000 page Church Dogmatics. Clear, descriptive, and concise it is easily more readable than much of his work. I generally find Barth's lectures quite informative to my faith and understanding of God's Word.
