https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25101.Season_of_Mists
Gaiman's inspiration for Season of Mists was a remark of Jesuit theologian and anthropologist Teilhard de Chardin: “You have told me, O God, to believe in hell.
The title is derived from Keat’s “Autumn”: “season of mists and mellow fruitfulness.” Although the association of “mellow fruitfulness” with Hell may seem ironic, I believe its message is straightforward.
In Season of Mists, Dream does become more "mellow'" dying to unwelcome burdens and ancient rages, and gaining the fruits—a small portion, at least—of peace, reconciliation and love.
Finally, I would like to share with you my favorite part of Season of Mists.
For me, that character is Breschau of Livonia.
I find myself at a loss for words whenever I come to review a volume of this series, simply because it is just that good. What is there to talk of that will do it justice? Could I speak of the intelligent weaving of mythological figures with distinctively human personalities? No. Not enough. Could I speak of the literary allusions and most apt references to long dead poets and writers? No. Not enough. One thing I can say with absolute certainty is that  Gaiman is a genius. This is by far the bes
I find myself at a loss for words whenever I come to review a volume of this series, simply because it is just that good.
Dream, Death, Fate, Desire, Delirium, Despair and Destruction are powerful concepts that move human existence.
Central to this series is Dream.
Lucifer has had enough of ruling in hell and wants to go and experience a few new things, only natural really after ruling in the fire pit for thousands of years.
But Dream has his own responsibilities; he can’t be the new lord of hell.
The story goes to Hell, in more than one sense. Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Kelly Jones, Malcolm Jones III, Mike Dringenberg, Matt Wagner, Dick Giordano, George Pratt & P. Craig RussellCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein FAMILY REUNIONS, HELLISH KEYS, BOARDING SCHOOLS & DIVINE PARTIES Yet another impressive introduction to the TPB by Harlan Ellison, denoting again that The Sandman is something else in the middle of the genre of comic books. Sometimes we can choose
This volume has an epic beginning with a reunión of the members of the Endless, well all of them except the “prodigal Destruction” who went awol lefting behind his responsibilities.This family reunión of the Endless is easily the strongest section of the TPB and a real pleasure to read.
The rest of the TPB and the main storyline developed in this volume has a wonderful premise but that I humbly think that it wasn’t properly exploited to its full potential.Morpheus, the embodiment of Dream committed an injustice long time ago.
This is the point in the series where shit gets real.
You have Odin, the Lucifer, some Faeries, Demons, a Japanese storm god, Bast and Anubis, two angelic presences, and other assorted powers all hanging out, not just in the same story.
Why wouldn't Thor be hitting on Bast?
Even more importantly, this is the point where, when I first read it, I thought.
Are you telling me that all these tiny stories (which I loved, and would have left me completely blissed and satisfied all by themselves) are actually all part of a bigger story?" My mind was blown.
Dream is there, of course, and he's rightly annoyed with his siblings.He is, after all, the one who had perpetrated a great crime.
I'm not going to spoil Hell, but Dream goes back to right his great wrong.I was so surprised with the outcome.
If the Eternals weren't enough to make things interesting, we also get the Aesir, Angels, Chaos, Chinese Gods, Devils, Fae, and Order knocking on Dream's door to threaten, bribe, plead.
Hell, this Volume epitomizes everything I love about the Sandman Series.
Let's move Heaven and Earth.Woo!
I’ve been gradually warming to this series as it’s picked up momentum, and Vol. 4 proved to be a glorious realization of its vast potential.
What begins as the weirdest family reunion of all time takes a turn when Dream’s family calls him out for the very douche bag move of condemning his ex-girlfriend to eternal damnation in a fit of pique because she totally wanted to date other people.
Dream decides to journey to Hell to save her soul and hijinks ensue, not the least of which involves (view spoiler)[Lucifer’s abdication of the throne of Hell and subsequent turning over of same to Dream’s possession.
Onward to Vol. 5!
This is the best of the first four volumes in the series, with "A Doll's House" a close second, this should not be missed by fans, nor casual observers.Gaiman always adds epic storytelling and mythology in the series and this volume is no exception, Season of Mists takes on a lot: sin, redemption, both personal and religious, and the battle between good and evil.
The character of Lucifer is excellent and intriguing as well, and God's reward to the two angels who oversaw Dreams decision?
3,5*Σε αυτό τον τέταρτο τόμο είχαμε μια οικογενειακή συνάντηση των Endless, την εμφάνιση μιας παλιάς αγαπημένης, τον Lucifer που βαρέθηκε να είναι ο κυρίαρχος της Κόλασης, νεκρούς που κυκλοφορούν ελεύθεροι, ένα κλειδί και πολύ κόσμο που το διεκδικεί. Πολλά πράγματα μαζεμένα, είχε κάποια πολύ ωραία κομμάτια που είχαν ενδιαφέρον αλλά κάποιες άλλες φορές βαριόμουν και λίγο........γούστο είχε αλλά όχι από τους αγαπημένους μου τόμους.......(*επίσης οι άγγελοι ελπίζω να μην ξαναεμφανιστούν! τα γράμματα με τα οποία μιλούσαν με πέθαναν!!)
Like the old fashioned chapter headings, teasers of events to come and plot twists to discover:issue 21 :  In which a Family reunion occasions certain recriminations; assorted events are set in motion; and a relationship thought long done with proves to have much relevance today.
He acumulates names to himself like others make friends; but he permits himself few friends.There is a tale that one day in every century  Death  takes on mortal flesh, better to comprehend what the lives she takes must feel like, to taste the bitter tang of mortality; that this is the price she must pay for being the divider of the living from all that has gone before, all that must come after.The seventh Endless is lost, or playing truant, but that's a tale for another time.
that I wasAnd it all comes down to youWell, you know that it doesWell, lightning strikes, maybe once, maybe twiceAh, and it lights up the night” (Nicks: Welsh Witch Music)When I think about Neil Gaiman’s work, it all comes back to American Gods.
Certainly there have been trans-pantheistic works prior to the 2001 publication of AG, but I think Gaiman put it all together best.Season of Mists, the fourth collection in the Sandman graphic novel series was published in 1992 and this must have been on Gaiman’s mind when a few years later he began his seminal work.
This is my favorite entry in the Sandman series so far!Here we learn a lot-for instance, all the supposed stand alone stories in Sandman 3: The Dream Country, were NOT all stand alones.
His description of what happened when one of Gaiman's comic book stories won the World Fantasy Award was freaking hilarious.
I didn't enjoy the artwork in this one as much as I did in previous volumes, but I loved and admired the stories and the writing so much, that I didn't mind.
I would have enjoyed these stories with no artwork at all.
Bayıldım... "Sandman" efsanesi her ciltinde daha da acayipleşiyor. "Sandman: Sisler Mevsimi" çizimler ve diyaloglar gerçekten çok güzel. İthaki Yayınları'nın basım özeni, kalitesi ayrı Elif Ersavcı'nın çevirisi ayrı güzel. Ama en önemlisi bu çizgi romanı benzersiz (hatta diğer ciltlerden de), üstün kılan tarafı (naçizane bence) kurgusu / Öyküsü. Neil Gaiman'ın "Sandman sevenler muhakkak okur, fazla kasmaya gerek yok" dememiş. Özenli, hoş bir eser olmuş.
her güzel şey gibi kısaydı. bitince yapacak bir şey bulamadım resmen...
After reading more of Neil Gaiman’s classic “Sandman” series, I never would have thought that the stories would get better and better and the fourth volume “Season of Mists” certainly did not disappoint me!
I loved the way that Neil Gaiman made the atmosphere of this story extremely dark yet adventurous at the same time as the majority of this volume takes place in the Underworld and I was so shocked at seeing the horrible activities that takes place in the Underworld.
There was to be no battle unless Dream wanted it so and only a gift for his guest, the key of Hell.
Now the reluctant owner of a prime piece of psychic real estate, Morpheus gets embroiled by a series of supplicants from various pantheons seeking the key and eager to offer gifts, threats and bribes for it.This was Lucifer’s perfect revenge for a slight he received from Morpheus in the opening arc.
This would be the last time his understated and realistic style would grace this title.This is one of the more memorable Sandman stories, it introduces Hell, the existence of various pantheons and a woman who had spurned Dream.
3, the writer, who was punished by Morpheus by having too many ideas?
I think it's Gaiman himself, having all those ideas, but not being unhappy because of that in the slightest.
He proves all the time that he actually can build the worlds and create all those characters with their own worlds, and although it's not in the story, you get a taste of that, that the box contains another box inside and so on, without the end.
Kick me if I am.And kick me twice, if it wasn't the point when he started creating American Gods!
Most of the story involved Dream going to Hell to retrieve a woman he had condemned there 10,000 years ago for rejecting him (what a dick).
Lucifer doesn't even want to be King of Hell anymore and gives it to Dream.
He doesn't want it either and ends up giving it back to two angels.
It is hell, after all.I kind of feel like when I read American Gods and Stardust.
It's was good, but kind of meh.
I'll probably keep reading, but I have to take breaks between these.
They aren't binge-read material, in my view.
There is something fundamental in humanity that strives to personify such forces in anthropomorphic form, and Gaiman gleefully takes elements of some of well-known belief systems such as Christianity, which appears to have top billing (including oblique references to the unseen Creator), but includes cameos from an impressive A-list of deities such as Odin, Thor, Loki (Norse), Anubis, Bast, Bes (Egyptian), Susano-o-no-mikoto (Shinto), Azazel, Choronzon, and Merkin (demons from Hell), a Lord of Chaos and Lord of Order, the Faerie siblings Cluracan and Nuala, and two Angels from the Silver City named Duma and Remiel.You see, all these supernatural beings have come to call on Morpheus’ palace at the heart of The Dreaming because Lucifer, the fallen Angel, has decided after uncountable millennia that he has tired of overseeing the punishment of the damned, and has driven out from Hell both the damned (his clients) and the demons who torment them (his staff).
sensacional
Gejmen je upravo kod mene utvrdio poziciju,tako da i da napiše spisak za kupovinu,čitaće se
As I had hoped after reading Volume Three, the fourth volume does get back into the meat of the story and we learn more about the Endless, which is what I've been waiting for all along.
Why does Dream no longer look like Robert Smith so much?
Who's got a problem with looking at a Robert Smith visage?The story is definitely taking off here, and there's a lot of information crammed into a small amount of space.
It is unfortunate that Gaiman seems to be unable to surrender his archetypal cast to either humanity or inhumanity, but lets them sit awkwardly in the middle.
When this is done for the purpose of framing other tales and interweaving ideas, it does not bother so much, but when it is the story itself, it loses that edge.Dream, like most if not all of Gaiman's protagonists, seems to operate merely as an oculus for the reader, and we often find his own chance at decision revoked.
Gaiman works better when knee-deep in humanity than when trying to work beyond it.
Soon after they all arrive, Desire taunts Morpheus about the way he treated a former lover, Nada and condemned her to hell.
On his arrival, Lucifer expels all demons from the domain and gives Morpheus the key.As soon as it is know, other immortals journey to Morpheus at the dreaming to plead for control.
They offer certain thing in exchange; Morpheus hears them all, and makes them wait for his decision as to who will govern this place.Probably the darkest set of stories yet, this is almost an aside to the main storyline from the previous books, but it does pick up on a thread from an earlier book.
You've heard the expression about the gates of Hell being opened, but what if the gates of Hell are locked? Lucifer evicts his tenants, abdicates and gives the key to Morpheus. The demons want back in; various mythological creatures want the property given to them; but where do the souls from Hell go in the meantime? The story of a boy left behind at his boarding school during the holidays was probably my favorite part of all this imagining.
Definitely my favorite one so far. I was disappointed in vol 3 but things really felt like they came together in this one. The family meeting at the beginning was great and a great lead in to all that follows.
It's better to watch the sunset than to reign in hell, I suppose.
Mind explodingly good.World: The art of the series has been fantastic, atmospheric, creative and just beautiful.
Just read it (I'm sorry for being vague).Story: The story is a payoff for a single issue tale that came before and it's fantastic.
I can't really tell you anything about this arc, but for me this arc really made this series earn the reputation of one of the best of all time and a perfect example of comic books as an art form.
So good.I know I'm vague and I'm sorry but I can't really express how much I loved this arc without spoiling the amazing mind blowing story here.
The story kicks off with a reunion of the Endless, sans one sibling: Destiny, Death, Dream, Desire, Despair, and Delirium.
In Preludes and Nocturnes we learn how Dream condemned Nada to Hell for ten thousand years after she turned him down.
Instead Morpheus is given the key to Hell, making the place a protectorate of his.Imprisonment, freedom, and escape—these are recurring themes of the whole series since the first issue.
Lucifer knows resigning is like hitting two birds with one stone: he is escaping responsibility and he is also imprisoning Morpheus in a more difficult life.
Because Dream now has a firsthand experience with captivity, he has finally learned to see the error of his ways when he banished Nada to Hell and he proceeded to remedy that by visiting Lucifer Morningstar (also popularly known to most of us as the Devil and ruler of inferno) to free her.Reading Season of Mists has dredged up uncomfortable memories from my childhood.
In his own unknowable way, Dream loved Nada and understood that he couldn't be with her after everything, and so he parted her with one last benevolent gift.
...daleko najbolji album do sada..kroz cijelu priču imao sam osjećaj da je od ideje koju je koristio u Seasons of Mist,Gaiman izmaštao "Američke bogove"...Odin obučen u zapadnjačko odijelo...Loki...božanstva i mitološka bića raznih civilizacija..i na kraju razgovor između Morpheusa i japanskog božanstva mora i oluja Susano-O-No-Mikoto...koji je i cijela potka "Američkih bogova"
