https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7942561-the-circle---a-comedy-in-three-acts
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/42395PERSONS OF THE PLAY:Clive Champion-CheneyArnold Champion-Cheney, M.P.Lord PorteousEdward LutonLady Catherine Champion-CheneyElizabethMrs. Shenstone.The action takes place at Aston-Adey, Arnold Champion-Cheney’s house in Dorset.The opening: THE FIRST ACTThe Scene is a stately drawing-room at Aston-Adey, with fine pictures on the walls and Georgian furniture.
It is not a house, but a place.
Its owner takes a great pride in it, and there is nothing in the room which is not of the period.
He is a man of about thirty-five, tall and good-looking, fair, with a clean-cut, sensitive face.
He has a look that is intellectual, but somewhat bloodless.
Free download available at Project GutenbergOpening lines:THE FIRST ACTThe Scene is a stately drawing-room at Aston-Adey, with fine pictures on the walls and Georgian furniture. Aston-Adey has been described, with many illustrations, in Country Life. It is not a house, but a place. Its owner takes a great pride in it, and there is nothing in the room which is not of the period. Through the French windows at the back can be seen the beautiful gardens which are one of the features.It is a fine summer morning.Not Maugham's best style of writing.
Favorite quotations:"When you've loved as she's loved you may grow old, but you grow old beautifully.".
Romance is such an illusive thing, you read of it in books, but it is seldom you see it face to face.
One sacrifices one's life for love and then one finds that love doesn't last.
The tragedy of love isn't death or separation.
The tragedy of love is indifference.".
"After all, a man marries to have a home, but also because he doesn't want to be bothered with sex and all that sort of thing .
I don't offer you happiness.
I offer you love."
In the second act, we see the son attempt to succeed where his father failed in keeping his wife and trying to persuade her to stay, and in the third act we see the mother and her paramour try to convince her that the young wife will lose a great deal in reputation as well as honor by leaving, and that it will be viewed as a betrayal of the community spirit of mankind and will also make the woman dependent on a worthless man.
Maugham's stock in trade for plays seems to be the sudden reversal of plot, only to be countermanded by the reverse reversal. Quite enjoyable.
The plot revolves around the fact that the MP’s father was deserted by his equally beautiful and superficial wife in the name of love, and he is quickly revealed to be in the same boat as his father shortly after the play opens.
Just in case you’ve either never heard of the play, or might have the chance to see it, I won’t spoil the ending by revealing the outcome.As a seed bed for comedy, the situation ought to be bursting with potential life.
History repeats itself in this 1920s English comedy.
Lady Kitty abandoned her husband and young son decades ago, and upon returning to the family estate with her husband in tow, finds that her daughter-in-law is now contemplating a similar move.
That Lady Kitty’s husband is a former friend of her husband’s adds a nice layer to the story.If written today, my guess is a playwright would go for lots of existential melodramatics and screaming and dysfunction.
It’s easy to see why The Circle is considered not only one of Maugham’s finest works but also one of the best works of 20th-century English theatre.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this play by S. Maugham, although I would hesitate to call this 'A Comedy in Three Acts'... I can think of many other 'comedies' written and performed around the same time as The Circle that were far more funny. Over all it read very smoothly, constantly engaging with notes about character movement, facial changes, somewhat witty banter. I would recommend this play.
Fluffy. Very fluffy. Some cute bits, and a few passes of inspired dialogue. Beyond dated -- cultural misogyny is on unabashed display. Importance of Being Earnest is of a similar kine and far more inspired.
Also included The Letter and The Constant Wife.
Brilliant
This an amusing play by Mr. William Somerset Maugham.
