https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11494.Humboldt_s_Gift
It is a masterpiece, a brilliant study of a man fighting the world and his inner demons by withdrawing from active participation, but it leaves the reader frequently frustrated with the narrator, Charles Citrine, and his non-response to the problems he causes by contemplating life rather than living it actively.
The real tedium, deep tedium, is seasoned with terror and with death."This boredom that he can’t shake off in the presence of his overactive environment makes him an easy target for more energetic people, celebrating the spirit of money that is a symbol for modern-day America.
Charlie Citrine, a young man filled with a love of literature, writes to his hero poet Von Humboldt Fleisher from his home in Appleton, Wisconsin, and is invited to visit the great man in Greenwich Village.
Citrine comes to New York just as Humboldt is hitting his sole crest of popularity because of his book of ballads.
Humboldt comes to loathe Citrine whom he accuses of using his life as the basis for the main character of his play Von Trenck.
"Shoveleer!," he writes, "Your name is lesion."Charlie Citrine is one of the most fascinating characters to emerge from late 20th century American literature.
Humboldt is a poet, once revered, eventually ridiculed; Charlie Citrine, the narrator, was his acolyte, friend and enemy.
Bellow here attempts, not very successfully, the Nick/Gatsby divide in this novel – he has a prosaic narrator recounting the larger than life character, Humboldt.
But a failing of this novel is that Bellow can never keep his own voice muffled for long and soon the narrator Charlie Citrine and Humboldt become almost the same character.
Bellow often ends up sounding like the patient on the psychotherapist’s couch, gorgeously eloquent but telling rather than dramatizing.
Of the three times I have now read Bellow, my initial first reactions have always been the same, that this could flourish into the quintessential great American novel, where he even gives me a larger proportion of encouragement over the likes of DeLillo and Roth.
So then, the nuts and bolts of the story - a certain Charlie Citrine, like Mr Bellow a Chicago-raised author, just about 60, to the world rich and famous Pulitzer prize winner and Chevalier of the Légion d’Honneur.
Charlie has become rich and famous on the basis of work less notable than Humboldt’s, but he, too, is ripe for destruction.
Also, as a narrator of events, Bellow is convincingly descriptive, going into every detail to stamp into the reader's mind, incidents that look place decades ago in a near cinematic flavour.
SAUL BELLOW In portraying Renata's beauty and her lifestyle, the author has devoted quite a number of paragraphs, always paying glowing tributes to her feminine charms, describing the fine set of tooth revealed during an enchanting smile or the shape of her nape occasionally exposed while knotting her lovely hair.
Charles Citrine, the narrator, nevertheless admires the girl's feelings for him though occasionally, he felt betrayed and remained depressed for months on end.
The labyrinthine mental processes of an exceptional man of letters-- challenging, uneven, extremely self conscious & in the end, of course, Literary."I have snoozed through many a crisis (while millions died)" laments our Hero.
Our overthinking, overcompensating, overwhelming hero.
What I agree with in all of this is very minimal-- the dude lives in an entirely different stratosphere as you and me.
I agree with his thoughts on "the prestige of significant failure"-- beauty in a breakdown and all that.
It is very selfish and self involved (Rabbit Angstrom, anyone?).
Just superior and entirely involved in gilded but droll experiences.
La storia piuttosto orizzontale di Charlie Citrine che se la vede con lo spettro dell'amico Humboldt e gli amori infelici ha degli spiragli di luce vivida, il dono di comporre con grazia pittorica idee e parole.
Come dichiara il vecchio Humboldt - personaggio magnifico, carnale e poetico - in una delle sue tirate: "Il mondo guarda in faccia gli americani e dice: Non venite a raccontarmi che questa gente, così florida e allegra, soffre davvero!
La gente "florida e allegra" del libro di Bellow - scrittori, editori, grandi donne, parassiti e ruffiani - cospira contro l'inalterabile Citrine e la sua inesplicabile attrazione verso il lato peggiore dell'umanità.
Last night I dreamt that Saul Bellow was still alive, and that I met him. (Met him at the Chicago branch of something called the Hitler-Piedmont Bank--I know, I know, it was a dream, so it had to be a little fucked up.) I started to gush, but of all the phrases, characters and scenes of his that I admire, the only thing I praised was his description, in this novel, of Humboldt's mud-bespattered station wagon as looking like "a Flanders staff-car."
Roman a Clef a Trois“Humboldt’s Gift” is generally recognised to be a roman a clef, in which the titular character is based on the poet Delmore Schwartz, an early friend and mentor of Saul Bellow.However, there are three levels at which the roman a clef operates within the novel itself.Firstly, Von Humboldt Fleisher accuses the narrator, Charlie Citrine, of using his life as the inspiration for his commercially successful play, “Von Trenck” (which was later turned into a film): “I don’t say he a
Roman a Clef a Trois“Humboldt’s Gift” is generally recognised to be a roman a clef, in which the titular character is based on the poet Delmore Schwartz, an early friend and mentor of Saul Bellow.However, there are three levels at which the roman a clef operates within the novel itself.Firstly, Von Humboldt Fleisher accuses the narrator, Charlie Citrine, of using his life as the inspiration for his commercially successful play, “Von Trenck” (which was later turned into a film):
Bellow on the page (not sure what he'd be like in person, though I suspect it wouldn't be all that different) is an idea companion to read in a place that is somewhat noisy, a little folksy, with a bit of bustle.
No big surprise there, and frankly I was getting disappointed because I thought I had called it from about 200 pages away and when a dunderhead like me catches whiffs of plot points it's probably time to knock the thing down a few pegs, aesthetically.
Citrine lives and breathes with the perspective of a real writer surging against great existential issues like Walt Whitman's ultimate question.
Humboldt is brilliant, pitiful, hilarious and, ultimately, victorious from the grave.
Bellow redeems late 20th century American literature with writing so rich it has bestowed upon him a mantle of immortality.
He will be long remembered as one of America's most brilliant 20th century writers.
This novel confirms Bellow's consistent gift for writing as evidenced by his prolific virtuosity in Herzog, The Adventures of Augie March and Henderson the Rain King.
What a masterful literary legacy Bellow has left us!
It's interesting how passionate I get when I dislike a book.
My expectations were high and that no doubt plays into it.The setup is interesting and has great potential.
A man is on a quest to make sense of his life in a world that's lost its way.
So far so good.But nothing comes of it all.
The philosophical meanderings turn into banal, empty rants and we spend our time following the boring life of a pompous rebel without a clue.
There are no shades to the characters and they all come across as two-dimensional mainstream props.
Un romanzo come "Il dono di Humboldt" è difficile da riassumere perché non ha una vera e propria trama.
Necessita di tempo per essere assimilato, capito e vissuto.E' un lungo stream of consciousness, un flusso di coscienza di pensieri, di sensazioni, sentimenti e poesia.
E' un lungo e denso monologo interiore, in cui i dialoghi sono brevi o quasi del tutto inesistenti.E' un compendio di rapporti umani, di bellezza, di poesia, di letteratura, quella vera, pura e salvifica.
E' l'arte che si fa capolavoro e diventa sublime, è una meraviglia che terminato di leggere vi farà avvertire la "mancanza di qualcosa, all'infinito, ho il cuore gonfio, una smania lacerante".
Non so perché.” Poi in realtà lo disse anche il perché (si sentiva più vicino all’artista che all’intellettuale e questo nel pensiero di Bellow è un motivo importante).
Il suo modo di guardare il mondo che Bellow gli ha costruito attorno mi ha suggestionato e contagiato più di tutti gli altri personaggi.Andando ad Humboldt, è il romanzo più divertente che abbia ri/letto sul tema della morte.
E Humboldt, come Bellow nella sua vita ci prova a entrare nel Gioco, a passare dall’altra parte, in tutte le maniere.
ed eccomi al dunque catapultata in un romanzo che fa l'effetto di una pièce teatrale tutta trovate a sorpresa e uscite brillanti, dove dal primo all'ultimo atto ci si lascia rapire con sommo piacere dal velluto della poltrona, dalla conversazione sottilmente padroneggiata e dai suoni del palcoscenico calcato con maestria.
e insomma riemergendo solo alla fine - dal libro, dalla pièce e dalla poltrona - si realizza che in quel flusso a tratti soverchiante, e a dispetto del filo di qualche ragionamento smarrito per digressioni (l'antroposofia del vecchio rudolf!
Non può, perché dobbiamo la vita a atti d'amore compiuti prima della nostra nascita; poiché l'amore è un debito contratto dalla nostra anima”.L'alter ego di Saul Bellow in questo romanzo è uno scrittore nevrotico, amletico e donnaiolo di nome Charlie Citrine, figlio di emigrati ebrei dell'Europa dell'est, con una grande inclinazione al pensiero filosofico e speculativo, uno humour inestinguibile e una naturale incoscienza che lo spinge a cacciarsi nei guai e ad affezionarsi a personaggi ambigui e fallimentari con la lievità di un sognatore, sempre incantato da giovani e bellissime rappresentanti del multiforme genere femminile.
A masterful rendition of the narrator being; passive, studious, and tangled in an intellectuality that renders him apart from life and experience.
Intellectuality a costly defense from the aggressive tumult of life; unmitigated experience.
At the same time Bellow crafts this man as representing the life of imagination juxtaposed against the world with its willfulness, tawdry pushing and conniving to get one’s way; the rise to success and the reception of the emptiness of money and weightless awards.
A time for mourning amongst the gaiety of youths.One star lost for a portion where the narration sagged but Bellow was there to catch it.
When Charlie Citrine’s lover Renata said “When you get to the story let me know, I’m not big on philosophy,” she hit the bulls-eye.
I kept at it only out of respect for Pulitzer Prize winner and Nobel-laureate Saul Bellow, as the author of the masterpiece The Adventures of Augie March.
Regrettably these sections are interspersed with lengthy digressions into tedious philosophizing, boring intellectual vanity, and narcissism.
Was Bellow tongue in cheek?
Charlie’s first lover, Naomi Lutz, said to Charlie “It was always wonderful the way you talked.
But off-putting too.” Yes, Naomi, 487 pages of “off-putting.”
It is an erudite book with lots of ideas in play and Bellow has great fun with all sorts of sacred cows.
At times this was not an easy read and Bellow plays with some off the wall ideas as well (Steiner et al).Profound and funny; and I really loved Cantabile the gangster and Charlie's astute comments, despite his inertia in the face of Cantabile's ravings.charlie's musings will stay with me for some time.
I left UC to work in Algeria and took along a trunk-load of books which included Humboldt's Gift.
Living and working in Algeria was not easy, and I was hoping that this famous literary professor whom I had rubbed shoulders with so to speak would lift me out of my existential doldrums.
Besides reading about Algeria, Islam and trying to improve my rudimentary French (2 college years) and beginning Maghrabi Arabic, I had my books.
I can’t say that I don’t recommend reading Bellow to fellow readers.
I think he had a fatal flaw as a writer and that’s why he probably will not be remembered as much as McMurtry will.
In realtà Citrine cerca risposte sul significato del mondo.E le cerca riflettendo in continuazione, le cerca nell'antroposofia, nelle domande sul perché della vita e della morte, cercando le ragioni del fallimento di Humboldt.Troppo concentrato ad essere geniale, non riesce a vivere una vita come tutti gli altri e non c'è quindi da stupirsi che la sua giovane amante, piantandola in asso, gli dica:"Sono una bella donna ancora giovane e, quindi, preferisco pigliare le cose come miliardi di persone le hanno sempre prese nel corso della storia.
Ogni testa è un tribunaleCharles Citrine è una figura emblematica di un sacco di cose: intellettuale statunitense, ebreo russo di origine (Tzitrin), brav’uomo spolpato dall’ex-moglie, preda degli avvocati, amante appassionato ma superficiale di donna giovane e bella.
I personaggi con cui ha a che fare sono rappresentati in modo superbo e sembra di conoscerli, per esempio il gangster Cantabile coi baffi morbidi come pelo di castoro, vestito come un damerino e dotato di moglie laureanda in letteratura; il fratello uomo d’affari che deve essere sottoposto a un’operazione importante ed è attaccato alla vita; la bella e affascinante Renata, col suo senso pratico e la battuta perfetta; la señora, ungherese finta spagnola, madre di Renata, modello della madre intrigante.

As a young man, when I read this, I adored it (5-stars); this time, I saw also its flaws (4-stars).All the threads of Herzog, Seize the Day, and Sammler come together here in near perfection...
A picaresque comedy, Charlie Citrine is throroughly modern, and romps through the latter part of the 20th century, trying valiently...
if you haven't read Humboldt.My only reason for reducing this book from five to four stars is that I have just finished...
Review to follow...))((Read this book 30++ years ago -- and adored it.
Will reread it now, as part of my rereading of Bellow.)
And it’s not even good showing off, because anyone can do it:[P] was a great reviewer; a great mind; he would bring in Joyce on the English language, the Cuban missile crisis, Beckett in French, and the movies of Yasujiro Ozu. He’d be off, riffing on Rilke’s stay at Duino castle, Proust’s mother fixation, the Son of Sam serial killer and the Summer of Love.And Bellow doesn’t do this kind of listing once or twice, he does it frequently.
However, the tone of the novel is sometimes too patronising; Bellow, much like the searingly average Javier Marias, appears to believe that he is blowing our minds with his philosophical, cultural, societal musings, but, really, he isn’t at all; there’s no great insights to be found in the book.
The narrative is in the first person, told by the writer Charlie Citrine, the erstwhile friend and protégé of Von Humboldt Fleisher, a poet whose greatest fame occurred in the Thirties, after which the friendship shattered as Humboldt’s reputation declined and Charlie’s rose.
The first destabilizing event occurs seven years before the present, when Charlie, in Chicago, discovers that Humboldt has died in New York and left him a legacy.
The story is both funny and poignant, complication after complication piling up in the first fifty pages.Bellow continues allowing Citrine to ruminate on all aspects of his existence, most of the narrative being extended interior monologue.
Non sopporti la vista d'una bara.E poi pensi alla noia.
Ma non sarà in realtà che la noia è l'unica sede dell'io cosciente-di-sé ?E ti soffermi sulle persone.
L'amore è una divinità che non può lasciarci in pace.
Non può, poiché dobbiamo la vita a atti d'amore compiuti prima della nostra nascita; poiché l'amore è un debito contratto dalla nostra anima.
Meno male che c'è Renata, caro Citrine, ragazzo sessantenne.E Renata te le canta proprio chiare:Sono una bella donna ancora giovane e, quindi, preferisco pigliare le cose come miliardi di persone le hanno sempre prese nel corso della storia.
I had a professor who started with Bellow in her course on Contemporary American Fiction (with the novella Seize the Day) and said his work focused on the pervasive existential crisis emerging in America post-WWII.
This work was published 20 years after Seize the Day, but I found a lot of thematic similarities.
The lovable fuck-up.Anyway, eventually I'll read something else by Bellow and I'd like to see whether these thematic similarities are common in his work or just coincidence.As a side note, I kept thinking of Fellini's 8 1/2, one of my favorite movies.
When the idealism and pragmatism collide those are the ideals that get shattered.“In The Ark we were going to publish brilliant things. Where were we to find such brilliancy? We knew it must be there. It was an insult to a civilized nation and to humankind to assume that it was not. Everything possible must be done to restore the credit and authority of art, the seriousness of thought, the integrity of culture, the dignity of style.”It is better to be rich and healthy maintains the pragmatic doctrine but the poor idealists remain true to their highest ideals.
I almost gave up on this book because it was so annoying and I found no pleasure or interest whatsoever in any part of it including any of the characters, but I finished it for my brother. I guesss I'm glad I did, so that I can add it to my list and write a review having known that I did read the whole book and didn't miss anything in the last half that would change my opinion of the book. I didn't learn anything and was confused at times. This book was just not for me.
