https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21524446-a-thousand-nights
A Thousand Nights is almost certainly going to be compared to the other YA 1,001 Nights retelling published this year - The Wrath and the Dawn - which is not a good thing.
Not because teens aren't smart or cannot appreciate this book and its themes, but because there is a certain level of easy readability expected from YA and those of all ages who pick this up might be put off by the pace and complexity.Compared to The Wrath and the Dawn, the writing and atmosphere are far more well-suited to a 1,001 Nights retelling set in the pre-Islamic Middle East.
Lo-Melkhiin killed three hundred girls before he came to my village looking for a wife.She that he chose of us would be a hero. She would give the others life. Lo-Melkhiin would not return to the same village until he had married a girl from every camp, from every town, and from each district inside city walls—for that was the law, struck in desperation though it was. She that he chose would give hope of a future, of love, to those of us who stayed behind.She would still be dead. This book is m
This book is far, far more ingenious, and I truly applaud the author for creating such a wondrous, believable world and in integrating it so seamlessly into this fantastical tale.The king in this tale chooses a wife from every village, and kills her soon after.
Our nameless heroine chooses to beautify herself so that the king should choose her, and in doing so, save her beloved sister's life.
Part of the reason I love this book so much is that the love that the main character has for her sister is so fierce, and so real.
Naturally, our main character is determined to live longer than just one night.
Watch your world burn, light of my heart. Tomorrow we will find another one and burn that too. 3.5 stars. I almost steered clear of this marvel, fearing that it would turn out to be far too similar to another very special book: The Wrath and the Dawn.But I decided to look around to see what others had to say about it. And guess what. My fear instantly dissolved when I learned that this is not a retelling of A Thousand and One Nights but a reimaging of it, rather.And reader, it’s wonderful. ‘‘Co
Watch your world burn, light of my heart.
I almost steered clear of this marvel, fearing that it would turn out to be far too similar to another very special book: The Wrath and the Dawn.But I decided to look around to see what others had to say about it.
My fear instantly dissolved when I learned that this is not a retelling of A Thousand and One Nights but a reimaging of it, rather.And reader, it’s wonderful.
I turned my heart to stone, and climbed into bed with the viper.
Full review to come on my Youtube channel tomorrow!
Unfortunately, I wasn't the biggest fan of this book.
I ultimately felt that this book had a severe lack of plot and no character development whatsoever.
A lot of my time spent reading was wondering when SOMETHING was actually going to happen and jumpstart the novel, but that didn't come until exactly 100 pages were left in the book.
I was kind of disappointing with the book, but you can see the rest of my feelings tomorrow on https://www.youtube.com/user/emmmabooks.I received a free copy of this book from Disney Hyperion in exchange for an honest review.
My sister is no fool and she is not tender-hearted," I said. "My sister fights for her home, and takes what risks she must. That is why I put myself before her today—why I would not let you have her. My sister burns, and she does not burn for you.  It's been over two years now since I first read this book, and I still credit it as one of my original favorite YA books, and yes, I still think anyone who shares a book taste with me should read it.So A Thousand Nights is a more feminist, more them
A Thousand Nights is more of a slow-burning, tension-filled, literary-fiction-esque tale of the power of women in a history that tries desperately to erase them.There's something to be said for books that do something new, rather than just remaking something old.
And while many Thousand Nights retellings play with the romantic dynamic before all else, this book focuses on the women within the story - the heroine's relationship with her sister is the absolute touchstone of the book, and the love she feels for her falls through the pages.
“Watch your world burn, light of my heart. Tomorrow we will find another one and burn that too.”  I just want to put this out there: most of my reviews are negative because i don't know how to review books i like. There are some positive reviews but it takes me way too long to work on them. There is so much i want to say!! I HAVEN'T EVEN REVIEWED THE RAVEN CYCLE SERIES! My favorite books are the ones that tend to leave me speechless. Alright, here we go.Remember this book? Less attractive sist
I just want to put this out there: most of my reviews are negative because i don't know how to review books i like.
Less attractive sister of The Wrath & the Dawn (according to most people)?
Well, what i can tell so far, based on the reviews i read, people aren't pleased with similarities between both books.
I might be the only one who thinks A Thousand Nights was 10 times better than The Wrath & the Dawn.
Lo-Melkhiin is looking for a wife, he has already killed hundreds girls before he came to HER village.
So, you should know that I’m partial to books set in the desert or retellings of “Arabian Nights” so naturally, I expected to LOVE this book :)WellDo I gotta story for you (s) Sit tight fam, we got a wild ride ahead. A v coherent list of my thoughts during this book . . .- This chick doesn’t have a bloody name- Or if she does, she’s NEVER referred by it- In fact, NO ONE has a name- Except the freaky but hot and brooding king guy- The writing is so weird, you’re never sure if its talking about pa
-	So that’s the original story-	But in this bloody retelling -	THERE IS NO NIGHTLY STORY-	THERE’S NO ENGAGING TALES-	THERE’S NO NOTHING-	Its so weird, the only few sentences that they exchange each night are about her bloody sister-	It doesn’t make sense what the heck-	I want a refund-	AND LIKE HER NAMELESS (big surprise there) SISTER IS CONSTANTLY TALKED ABOUT YET SHE LITERALLY IS PRESENT FOR 0.034 SECONDS-	I thought this would be like The Wrath and the Dawn-	But its actually like, just bad :)-	The only pros I have for this book was that the font was large and the chapters were short-	And the only entertaining thing was the scarce chapters that were told from the anonymous speaker-	But even those got old after some timeNeedless to say, this is exactly how I felt when I finished .
The original Lo-Melkhiin’s soul is still there, trapped in a corner of his own mind, watching helplessly as his body is used to bring death to innocent women and mar the minds and hearts of craftsmen and others around him.A seventeen year old girl, who remains more or less nameless throughout the novel — other than appellations like “sister” and, later, “lady-bless” — sees Lo-Melkhiiin’s group heading to her village and knows that he is certain to choose her lovely half-sister as his next wife.
She tells her stories not to convince Lo-Melkhiin to leave her alive for one more day, but in defiance, to show him that he does not have all power over her, and to remind herself of what is important in her life.
i almost didnt read this - i was very worried it would be too similar to ‘the wrath and the dawn’ (which i love with all my heart).
my only problem with this book was that not a lot happens.
i think that had there been more substance to it, the characters and relationships could have been developed more, and i would have been more enthralled with the story.
but the writing was lovely - there was a very light and charming quality to the way the story was told.
very decent book, overall!
*Decided to round up, but my actual rating's still 3.5!They were burning up, and they didn't even know they were afire.An elegantly written novel with a lovely story, A Thousand Nights is a book perfect for all readers looking for an engrossing read.If I'm being completely honest here, I'm not familiar with the original tale and had to look it up on the internet.
Anyway, A Thousand Nights gives us a unique spin on the original story, mainly summarized by the word magic.Good men fall to monsters every day.
It gives the story an air of mystery.Another aspect that was totally cryptic was the characters.
وعن التضحيات وقوتهاوعن المرأةوعن الاساطير واعادة الحكيهي 3 صفحات اذا تحملت هدوء ايقاع الرواية للنهاية الملحمية تلك ستجد انك ادركت ماتريد ان توضحه رساله المؤلفة من قبل ولكنها فعلا كانت اضافة جيدةلا استطيع ان اقول ان الرواية لا تستحق 4 نجوم أو 5..بالنسبة لي تقييمي 3.5 لتلك الفكرة المختلفة البدوية البسيطة لأعادة حكي الألف ليلة وليلة العربيةبحكايات الجان...والعروش..والأنقلابات...الايمان والتشكك والعلم ..
I don't know enough to be able to judge whether or not the world depicted in this book is culturally accurate, but to me, it surely felt so.
It was very beautiful to witness, both as a cultural element and as a plot device.•So while I liked a lot the storytelling part, I found the book to be evidently weaker on the story in itself.
I loved the struggle between the demon and the smallgod (which is in part identified also as the struggle between men and women, making a true character out of the female dimension) but I'd also say the vagueness concerning the extent of-OH MY GOD WE DON'T KNOW HER NAME.
Always, it seemed, men would overlook unpleasant things for the sake of those that went well. The statues’ eyes for the melodious sounds of the fountain. The deaths of their daughters for the bounty of their trade. There was great beauty in this qasr, but there was also great ugliness and fear. I would not be like those men who turned their eyes from one to see the other. I would remember what those things cost. Amidst the dozens of YA fairy tale retellings, A Thousand Nights stands out. It wil
The two books attempt completely different things, though in my opinion both succeed in what they are trying to achieve.A Thousand Nights has gotten a mixed reception and it only takes a few pages to realize why.
So this book wasn’t always enjoyable, and yet I really liked it.Most authors who write fairy tale or mythological retellings stay very much on the surface of the original tale (that I’ve read).
It was so refreshing.Overall, A Thousand Nights is a slow-paced book that lacks action but is beautifully told, complex and thought-provoking.
Recommended!Overall, A Thousand Nights is a slow-paced book that lacks action but is beautifully told, complex and thought-provoking.
WOAH.
Totally worth it in my view!!
Apparently, it's based off One Thousand and One Nights, but I have never read that and knew very little of what it was supposed to be about.
I knew that a djinn or genie or ifrit would play a role and that it was about a king who went through wives like toilet paper.
It wasn't about identities, it was about family, the love between sisters, concepts like bravery and loyalty.
This was Young Adult, but it didn't read like your typical YA book.
Original post:I LOVED IT!
"My sister is no fool and she is not tender-hearted," I said. "My sister fights for her home, and takes what risks she must. That is why I put myself before her today-why I would not let you have her. My sister burns, and she does not burn for you." WHAM. FUCK YOU PATRIARCHY.Seriously, this was really awesome. A Thousand Nights is a feminist retelling of the Arabian Nights. I've read a bunch of these recently (Uprooted, Cruel Beauty, The Wrath and the Dawn) and all managed to contribute somethi
My sister burns, and she does not burn for you."
Even her mother and sister and all the women who work in tandem with her are nameless.
Women have been silenced throughout history, leaving their names and stories unwritten and unread.
Society is constructed to silence women and their experiences.
This retelling glitters with the power of the story of our nameless, disregarded heroic narrator who sacrifices herself for the life of her sister and womankind.
It will make you think and hopefully the fabric our narrator weaves throughout the story will become apparent in your own life after reading it.Back to my lair...
That cover's so pretty. *wipes away tears*
Soon she dreams of bigger, more terrible magic: power enough to save a king, if she can put an end to the rule of a monster.What I Liked:What was everyone's issue with this book?
Rarely do you come across books that feature a nameless protagonist!Our heroine is never afraid of Lo-Melkhiin, because she knows that he could kill her at any time.
Yet he is doing every cruel thing we know he is doing.One of the biggest differences between this book and The Wrath and the Dawn is that this book features no romance.
Magic, wisdom, true east, demons, princes, desert, castles, love, friendship and a healthy dose of feminism - this is the bouquet of A thousand nights.It began slowly.
Our Nameless heroine's name is forgotten but her story stays true: she saved the king and the kingdom.
I have written a review for this twice and it keep showing up as tbr aarrrggghhhhh! It's bloody good. That's all I'm writing this time.
I have SO MANY thoughts about this book. Can't wait to share them all.
3.5 starsI kind of missed the fairy tale component (no endless stories told every night here). However, it is very atmospheric, and the language is lovely.One thing though that bothered me. The main character's dress/robe called "dishdasha" plays a large role in the story, but when I tried looking up pictures of dishdashas, every search came back with some white prayer robes for men, and dishdasha is defined as a male dress everywhere...
“My sister is no fool and she is not tender-hearted,” I said. “My sister fights for her home, and takes what risks she must. That is why I put myself before her today—why I would not let you have her. My sister burns, and she does not burn for you.”  A Thousand Nights is a tale of love. Not the blossoming love between a woman and her captor, but a love so deep like it can only run between sisters. This is a testimony to sisterhood, to the strength of women, and to the magic of belief. Though pe
It does not bear your typical slow burn romance, or your typical kick-ass heroine, or your typical fast-paced fantasy plot.
However, with the knowledge I do have, I must note that Johnston's cultural accuracy and authenticity is a tough act to follow for authors writing Arabian-inspired fantasy novels.
I swear, if you enjoy creative writing but you lack inspiration, dive into this book and you will walk the earth forever enchanted by its stunning imagination.In a nutshell, A Thousand Nights is a beautifully written and imaginative Arabian-inspired novel, and if you can trade a fast pacing for actual substance, you will adore this book as much as I did.Every Word A Doorway | Instagram | Twitter | Bloglovin
Full review at: my blog ''I was done with murdering little girls. This one would be my queen.'' I understand why this book isn't as popular as The Wrath and the Dawn. Comparison is inevitable since they both revolve around the same subject and came out at approximately the same time. And where the TWATD became a huge hit, A Thousand Nights was left more or less in it's shadow. Which, to be quite honest, is why it took me so long to read it. I didn't have high hopes for this one. And I was so wro
If I have to judge objectively, A Thousand Nights is by far the better book.
So, I can only respect her for doing her job well since this has obviously helped her to gain all the knowledge about this culture, which allowed her to write this incredible book.
The nameless heroine is so independent without flaunting it and fierce without making a huge deal out of it.
And one of the greatest qualities of this book is the unbelievable talent for writing the author has.
Every single page contained little gems of expressions and made reading such a pleasure.
Now this is a (feminist!) retelling that truly had me spellbound.  A Thousand Nights  is a story written in gorgeous prose and with a charming atmosphere, that tells the tale of how (two) women fight against the power of men and his believes. In a Middle Eastern land, the king Lo-Melkhiin is known for taking a new bride each day, for all the girls strangely die fast after the marriage. When the king comes to their qasr, one sister is determinate to save her older sister’s life, and so she disgui
is a story written in gorgeous prose and with a charming atmosphere, that tells the tale of how (two) women fight against the power of men and his believes.
There is very little romance between the sister and the king, and the only action takes place in the last 50 pages of the book (and is not very well written).
Men may hold the most important names and ranks in this book (more about names later), it are the women – the mothers, the palace servants, the brides – who have the most power.
Right now I will mention that one of my favourite scenes was when our main character was watching the star fall over the desert..Among the other things I loved were: the strong bond between the MC and her sister, the rich descriptions of the desert, the writing style, the strong eastern Arabian feel to the whole story and the feminist power of our MC’s actions.“If you listen long enough to the whispers, you will hear the truth.
Long Review To Come Closer To Release. Needs another 1001 nights to develop character depth.  Very atypical of me to be doing a mid currently reading review, but I've got to be a bit vocal here. You see, this whole retelling wave that we're all riding on is not my favourite. Why? Because shit like reading back to back stories playing homage to the very same classics in the same year can be fucking confusing. And whether you like it or not, it causes comparisons. I have just come off a The Wrat
Very atypical of me to be doing a mid currently reading review, but I've got to be a bit vocal here.
Because shit like reading back to back stories playing homage to the very same classics in the same year can be fucking confusing.
I have just come off a The Wrath and the Dawn high, the 2015 YA offering playing upon the whole 1001 Nights thing.
It could be that I'm daft as hell or I've gotten little to know sleep but damn, I must be pretty fucking stupid if I've failed to catch the protagonist's name despite being over the 50% mark.
3.5I'm not quite sure how to feel about this book.
It's certainly different.
Very different.
This book is definitely not your typical YA love story.
So when it comes to all these things, this book deserves 5 stars.BUTI was bored.
I didn't feel the need to pick this book back up and even though I loved how the main protagonist focused her thoughts on her family (especially her sister, which was AMAZING!) I didn't care for any of the characters.
If you don't get bored than this will be something you'll love.
It was written in a way that was really beautiful and it felt like a story.
Not like I was reading a book but an actual story and it reminded me of why I love reading so much.
I wasn't totally into the main character though.
At the beginning of the book she was saying how much more beautiful her sister was but she had never actually seen her own face.
She did get a little better though the book but she never made me fall in love with her.
It was a little slow in the middle but it wasn't boring by all means.
While the writing is beautiful and a lot of work has gone in to setting the scene of the hot desert, and I found the religious angles and scenery really interesting, the rest of the story felt a little flat.
Not the main character, her sister (who despite being the focus of MCs visions never got a name or much of a description) and definitely not her father, brothers, mother, sisters-mother, fathers-fathers-father...
I understand that it may be a cultural way of speaking, but it doesn't help when you're trying to empathise with characters and become immersed in their lives.I think the premise and underlying plot of the book could have been fantastic, exciting, and powerful.
