https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13036.Balthazar
Durrell said the whole Quartet was about modern love.
This was published in 1958, but is set in the 1930s, so Durrell is looking back through the prism of time and perhaps recapturing something of his past as well.
Durrell was in Alexandria during the war; the model for the character of Justine was Durrell’s second wife.
Of course, a great deal of the sexual complexity in the novels reflects Durrell’s own life; although the theme is modern love Durrell wasn’t himself “modern” in his attitudes.
First Impression Followed by a SecondInitially, I suspected that this second volume of  "The Alexandria Quartet"  might be inferior to the first.However, having finished it, I don't really think of it as a wholly different work. Its very nature and purpose is to tweek  "Justine".  It's both supplementary and complementary. What emerges (in the mind of the reader) isn't so much a second distinct work, but a compound of the two. My memory of the first is now irreversibly altered by the experience
However, the events that occur in this volume retroactively shape the narrator's perception and memories of the past:"In my mind's eye the city rose once more against the flat mirror of the green lake and the broken loins of sandstone which marked the desert's edge."The politics of love, the intrigues of desire, good and evil, virtue and caprice, love and murder, moved obscurely in the dark corners of Alexandria's streets and squares, brothels and drawing-rooms - moved like a great congress of eels in the slime of plot and counter-plot."This is a pretty good summary of the novel.
"Our view of reality is conditioned by our position in space and time — not by our personalities as we like to think."- Lawrence Durrell, BalthazarIn Durrell's second book of the Alexandria Quartet, Durrell has added another voice, another perspective to the events of the first novel.
He is destroying of the private Alexandria of Darley, and now expanding the story to include perspectives from Balthazar.
Balthazar has dropped his loose-leafed Inter-Linear of Book 1 off to Darley, who is now raising Melissa (and Nassim's daughter) on a small Greek island (just West of Smyrna.* Chios?).Again, I LOVED this second book.
الجزء الثانى من رباعية الاسكندريه. أفضل من الجزء الأول بكل تأكيد, والتركيز على المدينه نفسها أعلى من الجزء الأولاللغه رغم ترجمتها جيدهوالاحداث والتفاصيل لم تختلف طبيعتها كثيرا عن الجزء الأول.شخصيات العمل متطورة جدا وأفضل مافى الروايه والتطور الأكثر وضوحا عن لجزء الأولفى المجمل عمل جيد ضمن رباعية روائيه قد تكون من أعظم ما قرأت
"Indulge but refine was Balthazar's very alexandrian doctrine.
Balthazar understood that it was in the nature of Alexandrians to seek a reconciliation between extreme sensuality and extreme asceticism which was why they were hysterics and extremists.
It also explained why they were incomparable lovers."The novel Balthazar also serves to very clearly enunciate Durrell's theses on God and sexuality :"Gods are men and men Gods; they intrude on each other's lives, trying to express themselves through each other - hence much apparent confusion in our human states of mind, our intimation of powers within or beyond us.
The little girl, who plays no part in the present narrative, is also the daughter of Nessim, the Coptic Christian husband of Justine, with whom Darley had an affair in the first novel.Balthazar, an Alexandrian psychiatrist, has sent Darley additional information about events and characters from the first novel, clarifying and expanding upon much that Darley thought he knew.
It is hard not to contemplate that one’s own life is no doubt based on half-truths and incomplete knowledge of people and events, such that one’s own living would be significantly different if such memories were different.
Ono što mi je malo škripalo kod Baltazara je narativa, ili radije, njena neubedljivost.
Darelova ideja primene relativiteta (mada malo laička) na strukturu kvarteta jeste zanimljiva – na neki način svaki potonji deo je ponovo čitanje jednog istog romana, ali sa različitim predznanjem – ali istovremeno unosi i sumnju u autentičnost pisanja, posebno kada karakteristično prvo lice iz Justine neretko zameni trećim licem nekog tamo nezanimljivog lika (npr.
Dodaj na to što sam očekivao više hermetizma, i to je i dalje dobar roman koji samostalno stoji vrlo, vrlo dobro – ali u kontekstu nastavka Justine, tojest kvarteta u celosti, malo manjka.
"A única maneira de permanecermos fiéis ao tempo — escreve Baltasar — consiste em intercalar as realidades, porque em cada ponto do Tempo as possibilidades são infinitas na sua multiplicidade. Viver é escolher. Reservar perpetuamente o nosso juízo, escolher perpetuamente." Alexandria...
Durrell wanted to write about "modern" love but the characters in Balthazar that aren't British are seeing it from a completely different perspective that even he may not have completely understood.I was surprised my original review contained no quotations so I will include some of them here."It is not enough, perhaps, to respect a man's genius - one must love him a little, no?""Are we then nourished only by fictions, by lies?""We live by selected fictions.""At first" writes Pursewarden, "we seek to supplement the emptiness of our individuality through love, and for a brief moment enjoy the illusion of completeness.
Or, as Balthazar writes to the narrator, his manuscript could be described as "some medieval palimpsest where different sorts of truth are thrown down one upon the other, the one obliterating or perhaps supplementing another." Someone, perhaps Darley, writes, "perhaps buried in all this there lies the germ and substance of a truth - time's usufruct." Although I've only read half the Quartet at this point, I feel an analogy coming on - to the Gospels - the same stories told four ways, by four people - although in Durrell's case we have one common narrator, Darley.
I am just a refugee from the long slow toothache of English life. It is terrible to love life so much you can hardly breathe!A fattened, more comprehensive and weezing approach will occur when I finish the Quartet.
Spectacular. These books are structured in such a complex way that as you peel away each layer you learn more about the whole. I'm going to be sad when I finish this quartet.
Bir yapıyı yavaş yavaş kurmak gibi ya da iyice derine dalmak gibi.. kalan iki kitabı da okumak isteği...
From Another AngleBalthazar, the second novel in Lawrence Durrell's Alexandria Quartet, is a less daunting proposition than its predecessor, Justine. The author points out that the first three novels (these two plus  Mountolive ) all overlap in time, looking at the same events from different perspectives; only the fourth book, Clea, is a true sequel. Nonetheless, it is essential to read Justine first; the greater clarity and expansiveness of Balthazar is possible only because the reader already
Nonetheless, it is essential to read Justine first; the greater clarity and expansiveness of Balthazar is possible only because the reader already knows most of the characters and events; there is not enough explanation for the story to stand on its own.The set-up is simple.
The effective addition of a second narrator (Balthazar) means that not everything is filtered through Darley's sensibility, so other characters develop greater individuality through the cross-lighting.
No longer does this writing overwhelm the narrative it contains, nor does it merely decorate; rather, it articulates and propels the action, as this four-book sequence comes to seem less an outré experiment and more like a true novel of impressive scope.
A perceptive character observes modern art's debt to theoretical physics, and so it is: the novel's tangle of disinterested and capricious love affairs (modern and age-old) shift and squirm in (quantum) uncertainty, resolving to clear positions only as long as they are, um, relative...
Likewise, the structure of the entire Alexandria Quartet echoes our perception of space and time, with the second part/dimension deepening and expanding on the events of the first, from a largely atmospheric rendering to a psychological and philosophical study (so this is not a true "sequel", Durrell points out; they both cover the same time span).
This is the second book in Durrell's Alexandria Quartet, and I can't imagine reading it without reading Justine first. Even having read Justine not too long ago, I kept feeling a need to go back and re-read to try to fit Balthazar into the context of the first novel.Interesting, new angles and information, and a demonstration of how perspective changes a story!
3,5 zvaigznes. Kāds pārsteigums - otrā kvarteta daļa ir krietni baudāmāka par pirmo, lai gan tieši šai anotācijā tiek uzsvērts filozofiskums. "Baltazars" ir pilns ar noslēpumiem, daži tiek atklāti, ir vairāki līķi un pirmās daļas notikumi parādās citā gaismā. Aizraujoši! Neliku 4 zvaigznes tikai ar cerību, ka nākamā daļa ir vēl labāka.
Description: Balthazar, is the second volume of Durrell's The Alexandria Quartet, set in Alexandria, Egypt, during the 1940s.
The events of each lush and sensuous novel are seen through the eyes of the central character L.G. Darley, who observes the interactions of his lovers, friends, and acquaintances.
Balthazar, named for Darley's friend, a doctor and mystic, interprets Darley's views from a philosophical and intellectual viewpoint.
Dedication: To My Mother: these memorials to a forgotten cityOpening: Landscape-tones: brown to bronze, steep skyline, low cloud, pearl ground with shadowed oyster and violet reflections.
The lion-dust of the desert: prophet's tombs turned to zinc and copper at sunset on the ancient lake.
The explanation given for a quartet of novels the first three of which cover the same events from different perspectives is that they were inspired by the idea of spacetime most famously used in Einstein's theory of relativity - the first three novels corresponding to space dimensions, and the fourth to time.I particularly like the way that Balthazar is set up, the reason that the narrator is persuaded to revisit the story of his affair with Justine.
those are what progress these books along.In some ways, now that I'm accustomed to Durrell's style, I enjoy it more.
The richly drawn characters of the first two books now exist in my memories like real people - loquacious Pombal, perverted and broken Scobie, pathetic Melissa, desperate Narouz, ethereal (yet somehow earthy) Clea, feeble Darley, bitter Pursewarden, rigid Nessim, sly Balthazar, charismatic Mountolive (as yet still reasonably underdeveloped) and of course the endlessly fascinating Justine.
It is a testament to Durrell's skill that in two reasonably slim books, he has sketched not only these vast characters but the great and nuanced topography of their city, their Alexandria.
All the while it adds a depth and complexity to the overall narrative (of the Quartet) that builds an excitement about the coming two volumes.Now I've finished the second book of the Quartet on my second reading I'm overjoyed that I'm only half way through the complete work.
Clea, a painter and also the character of which the final volume is named, writing in a letter to the original narrator, Darley: "'For us, the living, the problem is of a totally different order: how to harness time in the cultivation of a style of heart - something like that?
و ربما طمرت بذرة الحقيقة و مادتها فرقدت هناك في باطن كل هذا كحق من حقوق الزمن و هي ان استطعت أن أتوافق معها،ستقودني ق قليلا إلى ما هو حقا بحثا عن ذاتي كما يجب أن تكون."الجزء الثاني يتفوق على الجزء الأول بقوه ، شاعريه الأحداث ووضوح الشخصيات وتطورها وإيضاح جانب نفسي متخم بالمشاعر للأبطال.
بعض الأحداث كان قلبي يثب إلى فمي من توترها ، وهناك أحداث تميزت بالفكاهه الجيده ، الكاتب يتمتع بحس رائع.الإسكندرية كانت واضحه كل الوضوح وظهر تأثيرها عميقا في نفوس الابطال.
الجزء الثاني يلم ببعض الحقائق التي تم تغافلها وترجع بنا لما قبل جوستين بقليل.العمل ممتع ومختلف ويبدو أن الرباعيه سيكون لها تأثير عظيم في نفسي.

Not tonight. This second book in  The Alexandria Quartet  has to "soak" for awhile in this read of it again after many years. It didn't feel to me as if Balthazar tore apart the story of  Justine  with his "Interlinear" as much as the story suggests -- more just added depth and perspective to what was a perhaps a naive, infatuated, self-serving view. Stories of colorful and enigmatic secondary characters emerged here. Strangely, not sure I have a clear understanding of who Balthazar is as a char
It didn't feel to me as if Balthazar tore apart the story of 
with his "Interlinear" as much as the story suggests -- more just added depth and perspective to what was a perhaps a naive, infatuated, self-serving view.
Stories of colorful and enigmatic secondary characters emerged here.
Strangely, not sure I have a clear understanding of who Balthazar is as a character/person in the story.
He was not a major character in Justine.Wiki tells me Pursewarden is modeled on the British novelist Wyndham Lewis.
Justine drew inspiration from Eve Cohen, Durrell's second wife.The biggest joy in reading was probably the lush descriptions.
This is the second volume of Lawrence Durrell's "Alexandria Quartet." He calls it not a sequel to Justine but a sibling.
Balthazar was the mystic philosopher in Justine who brought many of the characters together in regular meetings for study of the Cabal and other writings.
The reader begins to understand that there was quite a bit more going on than a simple love affair between the author and Justine.
Durrell himself has a grand intellectual and artistic scheme at work in the quartet which, in these days of novels as commodities, seems almost too precious.
I read Justine ages ago, like when I was 17, so I can't really comment on the comparison between it and Balthazar, but the book has a great many of the things I remember liking about Lawrence Durrell: his strong sense of place, and his writing style that reminds me of a lemon custard left out on an afternoon terrace, washed down with the last remnants of a gin and tonic that's now mostly ice melt.Delicate, impressionistic, nearly plotless, and with a weird-as-hell carnival scene towards the end, it's not going to be everyone's cup of mint-tea-served-by-a-Levantine-androgyne.
And I liked how Lawrence Durrell seemed to have written this book for absolutely no one else.
If it's beautifully written misogyny does it become art?
I liked the first two volumes of the Alexandria quartet very much, and for two reasons. The characters are to me extremely interesting, and the setting of Alexandria is both exotic and romantic.
Las partes en las que relata el viaje de Nessim a ver a su familia y, sobre todo, la parte centrada en el carnaval son de lo mejor que he leído en mucho tiempo. ¡A por el tercero!
No solo es una vuelta a la tuerca y una realidad alternativa y a la vez paralela de Justine, es un libro mucho más hermoso y entretenido que Justine. Se aclaran varios puntos oscuros de Justine, pero a la vez se abren otros. Las descripción de la ciudad, la atmósfera, el dibujo de los personajes es realmente fenomenal. Vale mucho la pena leerlo. Es increible que alguna vez el ser humano vivio de una forma y un lugar tan fascinante.
