https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107312.Angels
I started reading this book because a friend brought up a discussion on angels. Before reading this text, I thought angels were scary. They were these holy beings that weren't human, and not made in God's image.....so what were they? I always pictured eerie beautiful creatures bringing God's judgment to the fallen world. Part that idea is still true. They are beautiful. They are holy. They are different from man- and thank God for it! Where before I felt weirded out, I now feel protected. Death doesn't hold the same fright and either does the devil.
Towards the beginning of the book he looks at how satan tries to rob mankind of the strength and comfort of faith by using "ifs" and "buts" to make us doubt God (i.e Garden of eden).
In the middle of the book he talks aboutHebrews 11 where he believes angels helped and protected some people who accomplished amazing things for God but then others suffered and died.
The last few chapters give examples of angels ministering to people but clarifies that no angel can be an evangelist as Jesus died for mankind - we are the only ones who can witness our faith to others.
This little book by Billy Graham is a nice primer as to exactly what claims about angels the Bible actually makes. It's a fairly simplistic view, and not particularly deep, but it is well-grounded and extremely readable. However, due to all the references to "Dr. Graham" on the book's back cover, I would have liked his writing style to be a bit more academic. Also, three "altar calls" in a book that runs less than three-hundred pages seems a bit excessive--but, then again, this IS Billy Graham we're talking about.
A comprehensive but very readable study of the traits and ministry of the supernatural beings called angels. Without all of the sensational stories, but with deep felt belief in angels, Billy Graham writes a classic work on the subject.
This book gives a good explanation of "angels." They are NOT the souls of the departed but beings created by God for purposes not the same as those of humans.
Not because angels are simple - but because Mr. Graham takes all of the confusion and chaos that popular culture has turned angels into and just shows us what the Bible clearly says.Billy doesn't talk much about the angels that false religions claim to credit.
This book was printed many many years ago...but i'm surprised that the false Angels of Islam, Mormonism, New Age weren't on Billy's mind decades ago.
He does mention angels and their moments in the media spotlight though: Hollywood's attempt at theology.
Simple and straight from the Bible.
I would expect nothing else from Billy Graham.
This is a good survey of what the Bible says about angels.
If you have any questions about who the angels are or how they operate, then you may want to pick up this book.For me this book was a strong reminder that God's angels exist for God's glory.
They serve and protect in order to support God's people and God's plan.
And it's humbling to realize we are the "spectacle" for the angels, as Paul shares, because we are the recipients of God's plan of salvation and redemption.There's a danger in never thinking of angels, and there is a danger in obsessing over angels.
Good read.
Billy Graham offers great insight into what the Bible says about angels.
This is not about one-off stories of miracles or random sightings.
It's not even about Graham's personal speculations.
It's about the text of the Bible, simple as that (except, of course, that this topic is far from simple...).
Graham canvasses the big questions (e.g., do they exist?
do they really have wings?) without going too deep into a single mystery.
It's like an intro class, edifying and uplifting.(I listened to the audiobook.
It was research for my upcoming book.
I'm glad to have found an excuse to discover this modern classic.)
I have heard doctors say you cannot remember pain, so it was not a harm to me, but the "pricking" of the heart that listeners of Paul testified upon is real.
The intensity of the memory has faded, but I felt wounded by the testimony of a believer.
It was as if a sword had struck.
Billy Graham often brings me from Bible to memory, telling the reader that the Word is in the World.
Still, it can never substitute for letting the Word speak personally to the reader.
My copy of this book came from my family.
It was given to my mother from one of her sisters back in 1976.
It has only taken me 41 years to pick it up and read it.
The topic of angels is no different.
For me, I found this book a easy read and a good introduction into the subject of angels.
I'm reminded that we are never to worship angels.
Graham's book covers all the basics that one might need to know.
He gives good Scriptural text to lead the reader into a more thorough study if they wish.
“Some Christian writers have speculated that UFOs could very well be a part of God’s angelic host..” says evangelist/author Billy Graham in his 1975 book, Angels: God’s Secret Agents.
Reverend Graham recounts the story of how he had begun research for a sermon on angels and found (in 1975) that “very little had been written on the subject in this century.” Inspired by the lack of more current information, Graham wrote Angels: God’s Secret Agents.
According to Billy Graham, angels are mentioned over three hundred times in the Bible.
Did Reverend Graham’s interest in angels inspire other writers to pursue the subject as well?
First of all I have to say that I love Billy Graham and everything he writes just makes so much sense to me.This was my first book about Angels and I truly loved it and I took my time reading each chapter and I have learned so much about this book and Angels.
Billy Graham taught me how to pray for God's angels to protect me and my loved ones and that is something I never knew to do until I read this book.
Not only did Rev. Billy Graham give a great overview of the roles and interactions Angels have with us everyday, there are great biblical facts included here as well. I learned several, several new things about the topic and was happily reminded of other great things God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit has done through history and for my family and I. This is a great read for someone looking to expand their knowledge.
We all know angels are around us. But do we realized that they are secret agents from God? They ministered to Jesus in His life and they will do the same for us. This books explains all we need to know about angels. It was a great book!
Loved this little book written on angels by Billy Graham. I liked how he used the bible only to explain and reference from. If you are interested in angels and their role in our lives and this world, read this book. I really liked it and believe you will as well.
Not as uplifting as I expected, but masterfully outlines the role of angels in our lives, as well as in the lives of those who defeated evil and overcame amazing circumstances as documented in the Bible.
Billy Graham has a way of talking about the Bible and spiritual issues in a way that anyone can understand. He draws conclusions about Angels from scripture. He applies these conclusions and examples of Angles in the Bible to our lives today.
Originally written in 1975 but it's obvious that Billy Graham did in depth Bible study to write this still relevant book on angels. Great resource if you want to know more about angels but also an easy and interesting read.
A good basic book on angels. Mr.Graham at heart is an evangelist and the tone of this book is very much aimed at the gospel. While I don't agree with some of what Mr. Graham teaches, it was a decent book.
Popped up in my recommendations and I remembered - yeh, I read this back in the 80's.
Loved this book. Love Billy Graham and the message of God's graciousness through the work and touch of His Heavenly Host.
This is an amazing book for anyone who wants to know about angels and also for anyone who is a new born again Christian.
Billy Graham is a great author. He did a wonderful job explaining angels simple enough for anyone to understand, and using the Bible to to prove his points.
Even though it's been a few years since I read this, I enjoyed it so much. He was such a powerful writer.
Excellent reminder that we are not alone in this world. God has sent messengers/helpers to give us guidance, direction, protection and overall assistance. Great book!
This was a paperback book I found at a yard sale. Interesting read.
The Amplified Bible expresses 1 Corinthians 4:9 this way: 'God has made an exhibit of us...a show in the world's amphitheater--with both men and angels (as spectators).' We know they are watching, but in the heat of the battle, I have thought how wonderful it would be if we could hear them cheering" (159-160).As for the unfortunate aspects of the book, I think he sometimes goes outside of the bounds of Scripture.
It is better to say that, although non-fallen angels will never know personally what it is like to be redeemed, and although they long to look into the mystery of the gospel, they can certainly proclaim salvation and praise God for it.
I put it aside and didn’t read it for many days, but once I picked it up again and started reading it just got better and better.
It talks about angels and death and describes how at death angels come and escort believers in Christ to heaven and into the presence of God. It brings me great peace to know that my mother was not alone at the moment of her passing and that angels carried her into the presence of our God and holy Savior.This was an updated version of the book, but there are still many clues that this book was written back in the 1980’s.
While I am pagan, I have always had a great respect for Billy Graham. I remember watching his tv broadcasts and I liked his demeanor. I've had this book for quite some time. Although I am not Christian and he has obviously written this book from a Christian point of view, I very much enjoyed this book. I like studying the topic of angels from different perspectives and this book is one such resource for me.
If one wants to understand angels, the best book is the Holy Bible. After that, I would suggest this. The Rev. Bill Graham, one of the premiere spiritual leaders of modern times, offers this in-depth look at God's agents. The book covers personal experiences as well as references in Scripture. It is one of the best books I've ever read, and may likely read again.
