https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2306877.The_Big_Snow
* * * Read and reviewed with my niece Emma * * *I was unsure how The Big Snow would go over with Emma.
This slow-moving book about what animals do when winter approaches just might be too slow for this little rambunctious 6-year-old.
I was pleasantly surprised to find my niece quite attentive throughout.
She got lulled into a trance listening to his comforting tone, just like I do whenever I listen to him read.
Every page gives a slightly anthropomorphic take on what each animal is thinking when they see or don't see geese flying south for the winter.
We had a little snow dusting here yesterday, so I thought it was the time to read the book, The Big Snow.
Every other page is a color hand painting and every other page is a black and white sketch.
The art is really beautiful.The story is simply animals are getting ready for winter and some fly south and others stay.
A big snow then covers the land and the animals have to find food.
It has a lot to do with which animals hibernate and which don't.The kids thought this book was ok.
They enjoyed the animals and got squirmy toward the end of the book.
It is repetitive yet not informative enough (covering many different animals and whether they do or do not migrate for the winter, yet not saying *why* often enough) and is loooong -- *I* was bored, I can't imagine a child sitting through it being entertained, unless they were very interested in the animal illustrations.
As a side note, any "Little House" fans out there might be interested to learn that Laura Ingalls Wilder met Berta (Hader) in 1915 when Laura visited her daughter Rose in San Francisco.
This is the sign that they need to be well prepared for winter.
Coats thicken, burrows are dug or warm caves found, stores of seeds and grain are secured.
But when the big snow comes it is difficult for the squirrels, deer, cardinals, and other woodland critters to find food.
A couple living in a little house comes to their rescue, shoveling out a path, and spreading out seeds, corn and bread for their forest-dwelling friends.
The illustrations are beautiful … showing the hustle and bustle of preparations, the delight in a first snowfall, the quiet serenity of a forest blanketed in white.
A little author intrusion is a perfect sometimes. I loved the illustrations. I loved how we saw every animal getting ready for winter. And how they wound up needing a little help all the same. Beautiful book and well worth the Caldecott medal. My only wish would be that all the pages would be in color and not just some of them.
This would be a good book for the late fall. Then you could look outside for some of the evidence of animals getting ready for the winter. This book would be a good hook for a science lesson on weather, animals, migration and hybernation. Students could choose an animal from the story to research. You could focus on why an animal prepares for the winter one way and not another.
*Book summary-Depicts through a story, how different animals live through the winter months.
The personified animals prepare for winter by gathering food, preparing to hibernate, or fly south.
They provided food, and the animals gathered to enjoy.
They wait for the ground hog to see his shadow to end winter.*Caldecott Medal*Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-3*Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -Use while teaching about animals during a science lesson.
Why do birds fly south?*Whole class use (read aloud) -Go through the book and then have students talk about the different ways an animal might prepare for winter.
Book summary: This is an award-winning book.
This book is about how various animals usually woodland animals prepare for the winter.
I probably wouldn't use this much for the young kids such as in kindergarten because there were lots of words on each page.
Appropriate classroom use: I think this would be a good educational animal book for the kids.
I would show them the pages and have them tell me what kind of animal it is and then they can learn more on how those animals act in the winter.
Related books: Other picture books or caldecott medal winners.
The Big Snow tells the story of all the animals in the woods who are getting ready for the winter.
It starts out by following the geese south and then explains what each animal does for the winter.
This book is a great way for children to learn about wildlife and how they prepare for cold weather and snow just like we do.
The illustrations in this book were outstanding.
The variations of different art styles is what really amazed me.
One page would be drawn by what seemed to be pencil, while the next was a colorful watercolor landscape.
Overall I found this book to be very pleasing.
1949 Caldecott Medal Favorite illustration: p. 30-31 Two page spread of the houses shrouded in snow.Favorite line: p. 34 The sparrows, the chick-a-dees, the cardinals, and a lonely robin scrambled out from their shelters and flew from tree to tree, trying to find a place to perch on the heavy snow-laden branches. Kid-appeal: My seven-year old loved this one and was her favorite of the stack we read (all 1940s Caldecott books). Great for animal lovers, and would be excellent in a teaching unit on snow/winter.
This is a lovely book to read on a winter day, has a great story line of all the forest animals and how they prepare for Winter to come. The big storm that comes does not allow the forest animals to gain more food until a lovely man and woman begin to put out seeds and nuts for the animals. The rejoice and they can live through the winter thanks to the man and the woman. This story portrays great kindness and care to teach the importance of giving.
Long book about animals who do not migrate during the winter. Similar to "Over and Under the Snow," which I read today, except much longer. It's an older book, so it's interesting to see how older children's books used many more words. I think kids today would be bored with it, because it does drag, and there isn't much of a story at all.
A beautiful book about animals in the winter. A perfect read for today since it ends on Feb 2- Groundhog Day and we put seeds out for our hungry animals in the snow.
Caldecott Medal, 1949 Art Medium: WatercolorFavorite illustration: page 25Favorite line: "Snow, snow, nothing but snow--and the birds and the animals of the hill were very hungry."
I liked how it showed the winter habits of lots of different animals, but I thought the story was a little too long and boring at times. I picked it up for the illustrations and they were lovely, but it would have been even more beautiful if they were all in color.
Great lesson on the animals of the forest and how they survive the winter months and cold snow.
I had forgotten what a sweet story this is with and by the Haders. The pencil drawings are detailed and accurate providing a fine contrast with the fully colored drawings and two-page spreads.
In Hader's "The Big Snow" various animals begin to prepare for winter.
Before snow begins to fall all the animals involved within the story claim that they will be fine for the change in season, while the geese fly South.
Undoubtedly the snow begins to fall heavily and the animals are faced with the problem of an efficient amount of food to allow them to survive throughout the storm.
Overall I enjoyed reading this book because the personification allowed me to put myself in the shoes of the animals to understand how they feel within their situation.
The Big Snow, beautifully written and illustrated by Berta and Elmer Hader first discusses and shows the different woodland animals preparing for the winter.
Once it snowed, it was apparent that winter was finally there and all the animals were hungry and a little afraid.
I could also discuss the illustrations with them and ask them why they think some pictures are black and white and some are colored, then I would have them create their own illustrations for the book and display them in the classroom
The artwork in this, a mix of black and white with full color, is extremely pretty and highly accurate. The animals could practically be scientific drawings, and yet they remain very engaging and just generally good. The story is simple: some animals go south, others stay, and an elderly couple feeds them when they're hungry. It's a bit longer than usual, but a good, solid children's picture book.
The Big Snow by Berta Hader and Elmer Hader looks at how a wide variety of animals prepare for winter, and how some friends help them survive after the big snow.
Animals focused on include geese, rabbits, ground hog, chipmunk, blue jay, cardinals, sparrows, bluebird, robin, wood rat, pheasants, crows, squirrels, wood mouse, meadow mouse, deer, skunks, raccoons, & owls.
My favorite illustrations include the one opposite the title page, rabbits watching geese, blue jay and cardinals, pheasants and geese, mice and rabbits frolic, skunks and raccoons view the snow, and animals rush for food.
nature, kindness, and fans of Berta Hader and Elmer Hader.
It starts off with the birds migrating south which helps all of the other animals know that it is time to prepare for winter as well.
The book does a great job touching on which animals migrate to warmer climates and which ones stay.
Because this book touches on a lot on hibernation of different animals and other winter migration techniques I would highly suggest this book to teacher who are teaching about animals behavior during winter.
The book has realism illustrations and do a great job contributing to the explanation of what animal behaviors look like for different species.
Overall this is a great book bringing in science for animal behavior and facts about seasons.
As winter looms, the woodland animals prepare for winter: rabbits grow thick coats, a groundhog prepares to hibernate, Mrs. Chipmunk and a wood rat retire to their winter stores, and many birds prepare to stay where they are.
But when an older couple scatter seeds, nuts, and bread crumbs outside their cottage, the animals throng around their home, finding enough to eat until the weather thaws.The high point of the story is the kindness of the old couple.
The pages alternate between color and black-and-white drawings, printed in an old-fashioned style limited by 1940's technology.
Still, the artwork is of good quality and the color pages pushed the limits of printing technology of that time.
The Big Snow shows us how many creatures prepare for the winter.
Even though some of the animals talk, I would be more tempted to say that this is an informational book more than any other genre.
The authors, Berta and Elmer, did add some voices to what some of the animals could possibly be saying as they are preparing for winter, but the dialogue does not move the story.
The pictures seemed very soft and that added to the story and how soft snow is.
I would recommend this book to 2nd-4th graders.
Caldecott Award Winner, 1949I am surprised by how much that I liked this book; it sounds ridiculous to say that the illustrations are gorgeous (it is a Caldecott winner after all), but the illustrations are gorgeous!
It is a bit long, but I could see using this book in storytime today .
I love the two page black and white spread where the snow falls, "a beautiful snow flake fell through the air.
Then two flakes floated softly to earth, followed by three, then four./The snow flakes fell faster and faster and faster.
Millions of snow flakes fell from the sky.
Synopsis: "When the geese begin to fly south, the leaves flutter down from the trees and the cold winds begin to blow from the north, the animals of the woods and meadows, big and small, prepare for the long, cold winter ahead when the countryside is hidden under a deep blanket of snow.
They gather food and look for warm, snug places in the ground, trees, caves or thickets, where they can find protection against the icy winds.It might have been hard for the birds and animals of the hillside to survive when the Big Snow came if their good friends, who lived in the little stone house, had not remembered to put food out for them.Here, in many beautiful pictures, the Haders show how winter comes to the woodland as the busy animals make their preparations."Synopsis: I love the classic illustrations of this book.
There was a lot of description about what each animal in the woods was going to do for the winter.
Animals either went or didn't go and hunted for food or they didn't go and hibernated.
After the big snow, the animals get food from an old lady and her husband, which is kind of cute.
But then again, even though I know why some animals don't go south, and how they survive, I ended the book contemplating the hubris of these particular animals.
And that ending.
I disliked that ending.
When a big snow comes and covers up all the food, the animals must rely on the kindness of an old man and woman who feed them to help them through the harsh winter.The Big Snow by Berta and Elmer Hader is a children's picture book which receive the Caldecott Medal in 1949.
It tells of how different animals prepare for the coming winter, and how they survive after a big snow.The art is charming.
Then again, they are just animals.The Big Snow is an excellent children's book, featuring many creatures, beautifully illustrated.
The Big Snow is a very cozy story, perfect for reading out loud on a cold day in winter, or one of the final days of autumn, or just when burgeoning spring is right around the corner.
This book reminds me of some of the early Walt Disney nature specials that I like so much, which make the observer feel as if he or she is part of the natural scene right alongside the animals living in the wild.As The Big Snow begins, winter descends on the creatures in the woods while they all prepare in their own different ways for the bitter cold and snowiness that is sure to come.
While kids may notice that not every page has color illustrations, it does not prevent them from being drawn into the story line beginning with the wild geese flying south signaling that it's time for the other animals to prepare for winter or to leave as well.New teachers and parents may not be aware of this timeless classic which can be used with primary age students in talking about late autumn, deep winter or even Groundhog's Day!
It's time for me to retire." It's not as corny as it sounds, and any adult reading "The Big Snow" aloud to children may want to give each animal's "voice" a quality resembling its actual sound.This children's classic works on many levels, not the least of which is connecting today's children with a book loved by many previous generations.
