https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316845.The_Sword_in_the_Stone
It's not a straight up retelling of the tale that tries to pinpoint any kind of actual date upon when the "real" King Arthur lived and base the story in that period.
It's an everything-and-the-kitchen-sink kind of book at times, but you just have to go with it, because of course it would be a kooky life, the adolescence of the man who later drew a sword from a stone in order to become king, referenced water spirits for his life choices and overcame the Knights Who Say Ni with a two letter word and a herring.
If you are looking for my review of this book please head for my long winded review of The Once and Future King as this book is Part 1 thereof. If, on the other hand, you are not looking for my review... Hello!
is to learn something.” ― T.H. White, The Sword in the Stone I loved it and will definitely write more later as I read the follow-ups with the kids.
Anyway, I think White perfectly captured the magic, power, fears and the joy of both youth and myth with this retelling of early Arthurian legend.
White's theme of power and justice ("Might Makes Right") seem to perfectly capture the political Zeitgiest of now.
Perhaps, White like Merlin was just writing through time backwards and wanted to capture the queer contradictions of Imperial Democracy in the global 21st century, but wanted to write it in the 1930s so Disney would be around to animate it in the 60s and thus make his point resonate better in the early 21st century.
I'm a huge fan of the Disney cartoon and the characters and scenes they left out for the most part were smart and I didn't miss them.I am glad that I read this classic and I want to finish the Once and future King.
I still love the story of the boy Wart learning from Merlin and not understanding what a gift that is.
I think it's a powerful story.
I also love how many times Wart puts the sword back in the stone to prove he can pull it out.
I didn't remember how the narrative voice blended humour and beautiful descriptions, anachronisms and explanations of relatively historically accurate details.
There are parts of it that are beautiful, parts that are so wonderfully well described, like Wart's time with the geese, or when he's turned into a fish, and the narrative voice is so wonderfully understanding of what goes on inside people's minds.
I like the way it treats Kay -- like he's good at heart, but he messes things up by trying too hard to be what he's not, the pride in him.
The Disney movie is only about the first twenty pages of this book...and not really because they changed all the characters. This book is sweet, intelligent, funny, and endearing.
Perhaps T.H. White improved the story when he included "The Sword in the Stone" as the first part of "The Once and Future King", but having looked at the latter book very little of the story seems to have been edited or changed.
When this book was purchased I was hoping to step into a world of wonder, steeped in the lore of King Arthur, instead the reader is immersed in a book that appears cobbled together and no adventure for Wart has any connection to the chapters that came before it.
Can you believe I had never read this?
J.K. Rowling certainly read it - it's all over HP and some items are taken straight from this book and embellished to fine art.
The two 25 stone knights' jousting was peerless - I collapsed completely at the vision of them getting up a head of steam and then sailing straight past each other, unable to stop before hitting respective trees!Anyone viewing it through the lens of the Disney film is at a disadvantage; it oversimplifies a book that becomes ever less simple as you read on.
Setting: Great BritainTime Period: Middle AgesSeries: Part 1 of The Once and Future King seriesPlot Summary: Wart (Arthur) is a young orphan living with Sir Ector and working as a page in medieval Great Britain.
Through these adventures he learns the skills necessary to become a great ruler and these enable him to pull the sword from the stone.Subject Headings: King Arthur, knights and knighthood, Arthurian romance, Fantasy fiction-English, wizards, Merlin, Robin Hood, Great Britain-History- Anglo-Saxon Period 449-1066.Appeal: quirky, familiar and vivid characters, relaxed pace, coming of age story, third person omniscient, cinematic, detailed, rural, bittersweet, humorous, poetic, nostalgic with unusual and conversational language.Related Authors and Works (Fiction): J.R.R. Tolkien, 
Dissertation reread time!
I note that in my first review I noticed the way it treats Kay, which is a good sign for this dissertation...It's written in a conversational way, but it's also beautiful.
There are descriptions of the natural world that are almost breathtaking, and Wart can at once be a silly little boy and a very noble one.
And Kay can at once be a proud big kid, prone to bullying, and a scared boy who really just wants to hold his own.
This is a great book for anyone into medieval, Arthurian legend. I enjoy stories about chivalry and white knights in search of damsels in distress but just can't get thru the lengthy and boring Sir Thomas Mallory text, "La Muerte De Arthur". This book is a fine combination between Alice in Wonderland and Sir Thomas’s work. In other words it's the entire story with more fun and imagination. I'm glad this is only part of a series. I'm off to start book two.
If you decide to read this, look for an unabridged edition with the author's illustrations.
I read the Time-Life edition.
It's certainly can't be taken seriously.
(But then, young fantasy fans expect unknown names, kingdoms, objects, etc.
Disney fans know how Wart became Arthur, and that Merlin wears a robe of stars, and all that other Sword in the Stone stuff, and may think it all child's play, but this is not a dumbed down book.
Seriously.
It's well-written and delightful, an overlooked classic that ought to be discovered by the many fans of Harry P.
Looking for a diversion, I happened upon this and read it on a whim.

I was waiting the whole book for a squirrel story and there is none!)The pacing of the book is very good, and you learn a lot of new words from the medieval period.
I like how because Merlin has come from the future, he can mention things like cars and stuff like that, there's no time period policing.However - just be warned that this particular edition has not been updated since it was published in 1938.
(It's the scene when Wart gets turned into a bird) There's also some nasty commentary about barbaric Native Americans, gross imagery of the magic "Anthropogie" some of which is based on non-white stereotypes, and stuff like that.
The Once and Future King is such an Arthurian fantasy novel.Although it might appear as a novel for young readers, it’s really a satire on myth and chivalric nature of warfare, and the idealized and romanticized version of the legend.
He is a really aparody of the chivalrous knight.“The Sword in the Stone” introduces Wart who later becomes King Arthur, Merlyn a magician (who is the teacher to Wart and Kay, Sir Ector’s son) and Morgan Le Fay.This was a good read.
Esta novela ganadora del premio Hugo de 1939 cuenta las aventuras del pequeño Verruga (Arturo) como pupilo del mago Merlín y de las pruebas que deberá superar para cumplir con su destino y convertirse en aquel capaz de sacar la espada de la piedra. Sencilla, divertida y emocionante, con un gran estilo narrativo fácil de seguir y una gran dosis de fantasía.
I read this book after reading about White in 'H is for Hawk', not really having any expectations about it. But I loved it! Wart's relationship with nature and Merlyn and his family are all quite interesting. And the writing is good, and knowing some about White and his closeted homosexuality and other issues made it all the more fascinating to read.
This is the first book in White's Arthurian tetrology. This series is one of my favorites, perhaps my favorite ever. It is equal parts funny, poignant, insightful, entertaining, profound, engaging, and more. This is my second read through, and I enjoyed it just as much the second as the first.

I thought it would be a serious and a direct story but it had humour, witty dialogues and funny events in it aimed at younger kids but with the language that they wouldn't easily understand, especially the dialogues of personalities like king Pellinore and Merlyns witty philosophy.
The book sometimes was truly great with small adventures like Tom Sawyer and sometimes extremely boring (All the parts where Wart "King Arthur" is turned into birds and animals by Merlyn) are the most boring.
Kay is good for nothing bray with a bright future and Wart Aka Arthur is a simple young boy in search for adventures and answers about this world.
However, the book is a lot different from the movie and even though I know the story I still enjoyed it immensely.
The book is about a boy named Wart who lives with Sir Ector and his son, Kay, in a castle.
Wart never knew his real parents, but Sir Ector treats him like a son and Kay is a brother to him.
Wart's adventures begin when he is lost in the woods and stumbles upon the cottage of the wizard Merlyn.
Merlyn makes learning fun for the boys and is an often humorous character; his spells don't alwasys turn out quite right.
3.5 StarsI think my plan was originally to read all of The Once and Future King and then review all the books at once.
I haven't started the other books in the collection and it's been like three months and I've been sidetracked by too many other things, so ...
oops.I will keep this pretty short since I am trying very frantically to catch up on reviews and I don't remember enough about what I was going to say to write a detailed review.
This is what I get for letting my reviews pile up and postponing them for months.
Gahhh!Well, I did like this book.
It's a pretty short and light read.

Much of the book is made up of a series of set pieces in which Arthur (known as the Wart) is changed into different animals like a fish, a falcon, and a badger, and meets various comic or menacing characters, such as Robin Hood (cleverly disguised as Robin Wood).
The underlying idea is that the Wart is being secretly prepared to be king by his tutor, Merlyn.
The book abounds in comic anachronisms (ostensibly because Merlyn lives backwards), but it is also filled with acutely observed historical details about medieval times.
A wonderful, strange and memorable fantasy, perfect for any clever child.
Because much was cut from the trilogy for the 'fix-it' Once and Future King, including some bits other readers describe that tempt me so much, like food and a duel...._____________Too soon after reading the omnibus to read now, but my comment in the buddy read thread:I found an early (first?) edition in my library system and it's glorious.
So much was cut for the omnibus.
witch duel and that was fun.
I love the endaper illustration by Robert Lawson.
And the 'decorations' by the author are actually illustrations in their own right, and quite charming.
;) So there were some days I had to tell myself, "Okay, 10 minutes of this book and then you can read whatever you want to read." It's on the Ambleside Year 7 list for two of my kids for next year so I wanted to pre-read it, and if I'm going to have them read it, I figured I'd better read it, too.
(Some of the other more fantastical scenes will be loved by my Isaac, for sure, and I think I'll have Mark read this one aloud to the older kids.)

Despite the wonderful writing and the lovely audio narration, I bailed on this at around the 25% mark. Children's lit bores me to tears.
Just no).I would plug into the audiobook determined to get super far into it and then be forcing myself to keep listening because I was just so not into this book.The only thing that I can say that I liked were the final few scenes with the Wart and the sword in the stone and finding out he is King Arthur.
This is one of the more famous Arthur stories, and I am fairly sure I saw the Disney film decades ago.
Certain aspects of the book are very good, and others are far less so.Young "Wart" is not descended from nobility like his companion Kay, and the two of them grow up in and around castle life.
I can’t say whether this is the style of T.H. White or the mode of the time, but I didn’t enjoy it.I went into this novel thinking of it as a young adult novel, or perhaps even a children's book, ala Disney's interpretation.
