https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418.Been_Down_So_Long_It_Looks_Like_Up_To_Me
I have a better sense of how life is not something that can be planned for, that growing up is fucking hard even with a willingness to let one's inner child have a say every now and again, that death is always lurking around every corner, and coming to this novel without even one of those hard lessons under my belt would have reduced this from a poignantly frenzied love song of youth's last discoveries to an instruction manual for college kids who just want to shake things up (not that there's anything inherently wrong with living in the moment and taking inconsequentially stupid chances, for those are the backbone of the best Hey, Remember When...?
Smirky superior hectoring hipster cultivates cringemaking condescension, bullying braggadocio and sexual sneering in wearisome war on straight society. I really would have liked our protohippy hero Gnossos Pappadopoulis to die of a drug overdose around page seven but he didn’t. Could be Gnossos is actually Holden Caulfield on acid. That would account for my immediate and total hatred of him.
I think I like the novel more than I think it is actually good.
More so than that the ending threw me for a loop and showed me that this was more than an "On The Road" wanderlust excuse to drink and take drugs (although there is a rather large element of that) But more so it was about the effects of trying to maintain a detached cool in the midst of so much cultural change; and even more universal than that, it's about trying to go through life and never be embarrased or made foolish, and only portray the most laid-back, witty, and insouciant calm that no real person actually has.
And, of course, anyone who drinks, takes drugs, lies and sleeps around is the complete opposite of these things; he's an insecure man who has been down so long that it starts looking like up.
Right????after Spoiler: wrong.This past summer I went to a "Summer of Love" exhibit at MoMA.
And so it is with Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me. I know that in the '50s when this was written, the jargon, the attire, the struggles and quests were groundbreaking and awe-inspiring and amazing.
This is still an amazing book, but in a crushing blow I've had to demote it from my "perennial favorites" shelf to "formative reading." I mean, this book had a dramatic effect on me as a teenager, but -- though it grieves me to admit -- it just didn't blow my mind as a semi-adult.
This is the worst book I have ever read. Yes, it's trippy, but it's also sexist as hell, sensationalist, and extremely pretentious -- in both style and matter. It's counter-culture in all the stupid ways -- oooh, drug-taking is awesommmmeeee man -- and not critical of the protagonist, whose name actually means "knowledge," as he acts on the same base prejudices that make mainstream culture so rotten. A hands-down trash book.
When I read that Pynchon was best buds with Fariña and that this novel had a setting at Cornell, I was interested. However much Pynchon loved the guy, this is not particularly good writing. Think the drugs are a little harder to work around for some folks. Fariña was lucky that he had a great, nourishing friendship in a gorgeous, bucolic setting. His immortality is not guaranteed with this work.
Someone recommended this book as the quintessential novel of the 1960s. Well, I found it a confused mess, and didn't get far before giving up. The protagonist is a drunken college student and con-man who is remarkably unlikeable. Nothing that he does goes well. Including the sex. Or the drugs. Anyway, I read a chapter or two, then started skimming, until it became clear that I pretty much hated the book. Not for me!
Readers will be forgiven for wondering, in fact, if Pynchon didn't have a hand in the book since its manic energy and style are simpatico to both V and The Crying of Lot 49.
In the end, reading the book is a lot like watching WILD IN THE STREETS or maybe even VILLAGE OF THE GIANTS (best scene: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zy40TT...
Maybe in the end the important thing this book documents is how the youth rebellion associated with the sixties had a hard time rising about juvenility.
Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me – the title is already a pure poetry. And everything that you may find inside is thoroughly innovative and absolutely and fantastically postmodern. Not for nothing Thomas Pynchon dedicated his Gravity's Rainbow to Richard Fariña. “We mistake induction for generation.”Mankind is on the wrong as usual. And on the quest to find the meaning, hiking through the psychedelic landscapes, one may find instead human meanness without limits.
Three days after its publication, Farina was killed in a motorcycle crash.This novel stands on its own even without the coincidental pedigree of its author (friends with Pynchon at Cornell).
It allows Farina to encapsulate a wide range of topics without appearing false: the youthful hubris of immortality, here called Immunity; the naive spirit of protest and general counterculture billowing on campuses nationwide in the Age of Aquarius; the outside world, a place of spurious rules and authority figures best ignored as long as possible; and even, despite the protective bubble of the college setting, real consequence and sadness.
I read this in the late sixties and wasn't impressed back then. I first experienced Richard Farina as a mediocre singer and songwriter, and his fiction writing fell into the same category. I guess that much of his reputation rests on his good looks and his early death in a motorcycle accident - also his friendship with Thomas Pynchon. None of which has anything to do with good writing.I have no desire to reread this. I'll trust my early memories.
I would like to think that attitudes have evolved since this book first appeared in 1966.
Certainly I would like to think my own have evolved since I first read it decades ago.
But in order to enjoy the text on this level, you have to be able to disentangle it from the more repellent parts of the plot.
Perhaps a better comparison could be made to watching Leni Riefenstahl's Triumph of the Will, where you can enjoy the technical mastery of the cinematography and editing while disagreeing with everything you are seeing on the screen.Still interested?
This is what On The Road would/could have been if Kerouac had A) been a much better writer, and B) had more complex attitudes about stuff like race and gender. Another winner from Pynchon.
Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me is one of those novels like Naked Lunch that seems to have been written in a drug-induced frenzy.
Though the word frenzy might suggest speed, it took Richard Fariña over five years to write this book.
God knows it drags when you're straight and sober.The main character, Gnossos Pappadopoulis, has long been cited as the missing link between the beatniks and the hippies.
Whereas the beatniks used drugs to escape reality the hippies used them to transcend reality.
Fariña is the James Dean of literature, he will always be young and good looking.
The book cover states: Richard Farina evokes the Sixties as precisely, wittily and poignantly as F.
After attending a book signing party for "Been Down So Long..." Richard Farina climbed onto a guest's motorcycle to attend his wife's birthday party, but he was killed in an accident before arriving.
Much like these forgotten blooms, Farina's sole novel should be considered precious.
It is this that lends a certain authenticity to his caricature as character, Gnossos Pappadopoulis.
Not as well known as the work of Farina's counterparts, "Been Down So Long" waits patiently to be discovered, much like the blossoms he'd seemingly sent to Mimi from beyond the grave.
Another flaw involves character development; I had little clue who the characters were outside of Gnossos.The story errs on the hollow side, not much of importance happens outside of drinking and drug experimentation, and in turn I felt emotionally apathetic to all the characters.
The death of Heffalump momentarily introduces a serious tone into the novel, but ultimately goes awry when I realized I had very little notion of who Heffalump was to begin with.
Ultimately, I was little underwhelmed, and also disappointed that 'Been Down' hints at Farina's undeniable,yet unrealizable potential; especially if he had a better story, and a few tips on plot development.
I enjoyed this book so much that I will read it more than once-possibly even annually.
Richard Farina was familiar to me even then because my big brother had all of his record albums and I had heard his dulcimer cacophony over and over again as a youngster.
Recently, my manager, a staid sixty-plus-years-old tax attorney, saw the book on my desk and was very excited.
He sang its praises as a great book for charades.
According to him, no one can ever guess the title.Sadly, Richard Farina died shortly after it was published, so we'll never enjoy any more of his storytelling.
Read this at a particularly poignant time in my young college life.
Right up there with "The Graduate" and "The Crying of Lot 49" -- both kind of coming-of-age books read at the same time as "David Copperfield." What struck me as particularly ironic was the fact that the author, Richard Farina, died in a freak motorcycle accident a few days after this book was published.
Garcia and the Grateful Dead sing, "what a long strange trip it's been [since]" thanks to the likes of DeLillo, Farina and Pynchon.
Live hard, die young and leave a good looking corpse probably were this author's dogma.
Richard Farinña's style is upbeat, frantic, surreal and unpredictable.
It actually told a story, had a narrative of some sort, and that was surprising.
I overall enjoyed the book, but I am aware that the style is not for everyone.
I especially liked it because it has a resonance with my own writing style, this Kerouac-ian adversity to full stops.
I admittedly lost track whenever there was a conversation going on in the novel, as Fariña is faithful to the characters egoistic dispositions, and has each character talking about its own thing, a perplexing blurting of ones own needs.
I quite liked Gnossos too.
A campus novel - a great voice, husband to Mimi (Joan Baez's little sis)and college pal of Pynchon. Great stuff - like a literary animal house, hip, clear-eyed, quick, maybe Kerouac's kid brother - both Ivy League btw.
Overflowing with life and the undeniable, incendiary energy of its period. Unfortunate that we didn't get more work from Fariña before his untimely death.
One of the most fun books I've read in a long while. Part blueprint for Animal House/part homage to Farina's famous buddy, Thomas Pynchon. It's a shame this was his only book.

Beware the monkey demon (and never EVER use those salad tongs again)!
While ultimately calling for a sexual revolution, the men view the women they know personally either as opaque obstacles or shining accessories to which they are entitled.
The protagonist does not treat one single female with any degree of respect let alone tenderness, and is often downright abusive.
Misogynistic paranoia is not radical, and nowhere are the reasons for its persistence explained but for the protagonist's central belief in his radical Exemption.
Having met one too many real-life college boys convinced of their own Exemption, said state of mind strikes me as an adolescent phase no more radical than having an STD.
After reading A Severed Head by Iris Murdoch it would be hard to find a book so diametrically opposed in style and in content.
It does strike me as probably being more outrageous at the time it came out than today.
In the end it did not sing for me and I put it down.
Probably just not the right time of life for me to read this.
Not enough time to waste reading books to the end that don't really do it for me.
Another one of those American writers who made a big splash when they came out and pushed literature in new directions (and was a major influence on Pynchon to boot), but who has largely been forgotten now. A lot of wacky counterculture-era lit comes off as obnoxious, juvenile, and self-important now (Tom Robbins, an unfortunately sizeable chunk of Burroughs' and Vonnegut's output), but Been Down So Long holds up. Like A Confederacy of Dunces, it's funny and picaresque enough to hold strong. Do yourself a favor and go pick this one up, it deserves a place in the American canon.
A gang of barely-defined magic hipsters engage in a miasmatic sequence of random encounters with one-dimensional antagonists while possibly suggesting that repeated sexual assaults are a perfectly acceptable way of keeping troublesome and high-spirited women in line. Redeemable only for providing a vague blueprint upon which Pynchon would spend the next seven years furiously improving and offering hope to struggling authors of every ilk that if this got published, they surely must have a shot as well.
