https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40656712-rabbit-run
God, do I hate Rabbit Angstrom!
This is the first book by Updike I've read, and his reputation as a writer was well-earned.
Updike does a masterful job of tricking you into initially liking Rabbit, even after he leaves his pregnant wife and son and takes up with a sorta-prostitute, but then slowly showing you Rabbit's true nature.
And the trick is that it was right in front of you all along.Brilliant book, and I'd planned to read the other Rabbit novels, but I honestly detested him so much that I don't know if I'll have the stomach for another one in the near future.
So one day I decided that rather than go home to my pregnant wife and two year old kid ,I could pretend that I was still the Rabbit of old, and set out to remove myself a suitable distance from adult responsibility.
Turns out that a suitable distance involves moving about ten blocks away in the same town and setting up home with a retired hooker with chunky ankles, while reacquainting myself with a load of people who thought I was great ten years ago.
I just looked up synonyms for "amazing", and all of them are adjectives you can use to describe this book.
I mean, here I am giving it five stars, and I feel like breaking down the story for someone will make them think I'm crazy.
The characters are complex, too, and all developed and stuff and you just get lost in the story every time you pick the book up again.
Maybe I'll start writing serious reviews like I'm writing for The NY Times or something.
and the few updike short stories i've read only convinced me that his elegant & writerly style really bugs the shit out of me.
all of 'em (bellow, mailer, roth, updike) found themselves as the right people at the right time: white dudes in america when america was the shit and white dudes were kings of the shit.
and fools have always found 'em to be racist and/or sexist, not realizing that a post-war examination of racism and sexism was much of the point; that this conflict, that life as 'guilty royalty', lies at the heart of much of their work.
updike, from my not-having-read-much-of-his-stuff perspective always kinda came off as some dull & smiling yuppie dick.
The original concept behind the series is that Updike describes the life of Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom in 1959 in Rabbit Run, 1969 in Rabbit Redux, 1979 in Rabbit is Rich, and 1989 in Rabbit at Rest.
Back to Rabbit Run, Harry Angstrom is a tall man of his times.
Enjoy!From a comment I made in a reading group on GR discovering Rabbit for the first time:In Rabbit Run, I think that it is not a mid-life crisis that Harry is having, it is more that he is realizing that his actions have consequences.
Sheez.Book Circle Reads 96Rating: 2.5* of fiveThe Book Description: Penguin's bumf--Rabbit, Run is the book that established John Updike as one of the major American novelists of his — or any other — generation.
Its hero is Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom, a onetime high-school basketball star who on an impulse deserts his wife and son.
Though his flight from home traces a zigzag of evasion, he holds to the faith that he is on the right path, an invisible line toward his own salvation as straight as a ruler’s edge.Ballantine's is a little better--To millions of Americans, Rabbit Angstrom is like a member of the family.
They say you shouldn't make snap judgments, but I'd wager running away from your wife and toddler son with nary a word is one of those times where basing your opinion on a first impression is ok.Please, go ahead and tell me I am wrong for reviewing this without finishing it, for not appreciating Updike's prose, for not seeing how he has humanized a hateful man, for failing to realize the way Rabbit's life works as a metaphor for the deconstruction of masculine identity in post-WWII America, or how erectile dysfunction is a really big deal, or the lie of hyper-consumerism, or the empty pursuit of middle-class ideals.
Then I can go ahead and make a snap judgment about you too (for clarity: JUST KIDDING!).Sometimes you just don't want to read a nasty, ugly book about someone horrible.
For example, a building might be marked with a plaque as a perfect representation of a type of architecture.
I spent most of the book exclaiming "NO, Rabbit, NO!", "Why would you do that, Rabbit!?", "How can anyone put up with you, Rabbit!?", "Do you really feel like none of this is your fault, Rabbit!?", etc.
I spent some of the book thinking it is great and some of it thinking it is terrible.
In the end, the terrible only made me want to see more (again, trainwreck), so I settled on the 4 star rating.
He is undoubtedly a poet, especially in his navigating the traditional ('somnambulent') realm of late '50s idyllic Americana gone to the dogs."On The Road" bears a comparison in its obvious Grownass-Young-Man-Seeking-Escape motif.
But this is closer akin to the intrepid tale of 50's Suburbian Woe, "Revolutionary Road" by the brilliant Richard Yates in that it is the second party (i.e. the Running Man's wife, his children, his friends) who suffer the main repercussions of an egotistical act of indifference & familial apathy.Rabbit symbolizes the Everyman.
Rabbit is like an animal, sometimes acting like a dog.
My mind is spinning from being held hostage by John Updike for the last two hours of reading this book, which is equal parts disturbing, relatable, repellant, tragic AND one of the most amazingly written books I've read.Harry Angstrom (Rabbit) is 23.
Sex plays a big role in Rabbit's determination to find the elusive something that will give his life meaning, that something that satisfied him so well on the basketball court in years past.
Rabbit is doomed to be punished - severely - for thinking he can escape his responsibilities.
I discovered Rabbit Angstrom and John Updike while sitting in the Intensive Care Waiting Room at a local hospital.
My mother languished in a coma for one month before she finally found peace, and I spent most of those days and many of my nights in that waiting room.
One day during this siege, I stopped at my mother's house and was checking out her bookcases when I found a hardback copy of "Rabbit" and took it back to the hospital with me.
I immediately followed up reading this book with “Redux”, the only other Rabbit book published at the time.
I’ve read three or four Updike novels and I can’t recall a damn thing about any of them.
Updike’s novels seem like misplaced objects in my life.
Updike is writing about the blindfolding tyranny of male vanity but I often felt he himself was guilty of it in the register of this novel’s voice.
I couldn’t help thinking of our (English) young literary protégé Martin Amis.
Like Updike’s Amis’ first novel was a sexy, cynical affair about a self-centred misogynistic young man.
Updike, on the other hand, I always felt wants us to like Rabbit.
If it's hard to love a book when you dislike the hero, it's harder still when the book leaves you cursing the nature of humanity.I hate John Updike right now.I hate him as an idealistic dreamer, for making me remember how ugly we are – all of us humans with our selfish hearts and boring thoughts, our fractious flaws, and our suffocating sense of doom and exceptionalism.I hate him as a woman, for cringe-worthy moments of misogyny, for the distancing male sexual fixation, and for making me wonder that even the kindly back massage my husband gave me last night was really just a covert attempt at foreplay.I hate him as a writer, for his beautiful way with details, drawing me in against my will with his quiet and clever descriptions.I hate John Updike because I don't want to care about Rabbit Angstrom.
Guys are like that. Why blame Updike?
So this is an interesting story, because Updike can write, and he pulls it off.But first, I must explain why my rating is only 3 stars (or, 3 and a half, really).Never, at any point in my life, have I been good with concrete details..
Or, as Updike puts it in one sentence, "He likes things to happen of themselves." But you know, this outlook, this philosophy -- these actions: they don't work when you grow up and have certain responsibilities.
To quickly continue with the characters: I personally didn't like Rabbit's wife Janice, either (and I think most would agree).
"If you have the guts to be yourself...other people'll pay your price." --RABBIT ANGSTROM---John Updike, "Rabbit, Run"Down the Cunicular Hole, YoHarry "Rabbit" Angstrom, 26, Mt. Judge, PA, married with a two-year-old son, is a Magipeeler salesman (not what he dreamed in high school basketball glory days). His wife Janice is expecting another child any day, as every night she boozes it up. After another argument with Janice, Rabbit snaps, hit with an existential crisis, trapped by lifeless monog
He RUNS, escapes.This novel follows three months of Rabbit's life in 1959, from the night he runs, to his visit to his high school basketball coach, an affair with Ruth (who feels comfortably "right" as long as she nixes the diaphragm), the birth of his daughter and running, running, running.
Let's take coitus out of the closet and off the altar and put it on the continuum of human behavior."It would be hard to imagine the novel not having sexually explicit passages when it follows three months in the life of a guy whose very identity as a man and human is tied to sex and thoughts of sex and thoughts of things in life as they relate to sex.
In Rabbit, Run, I liked writing in the present tense.
John Updike has a very non-traditional interpretation of redemption, and you find that in his main character, Harry Angstrom, also known as Rabbit.
In this first Rabbit novel, he is 26, and he finds himself in crisis about where his life is headed.
I found myself loving Rabbit and sympathizing with him (mostly), but also hating him and hating his choices.
The writing is delicious, and I have never read an author who can see so deeply and so clearly into humanness; not only that, but Updike has the unique ability to articulate truths like almost no one else can.
(Here in Rabbit, Run, sometimes you can feel the effort a little; by the third book, Rabbit is Rich, he's flawless.) His characterization is brilliant: Rabbit most of all is one of the great real people in literature, and the supporting cast - his wife and child, among others - are also real individuals.
Great Authors Whom Annoying People Like- Updike- Ernest Hemingway- Cormac McCarthy- David Foster WallaceThis Particular BookRabbit, Run is about a guy who spends (view spoiler)[his infant daughter's (hide spoiler)] funeral checking out 14-year-old girls.
Updike has a reputation for terrible sex scenes, but I think maybe people are just mad because they're not sexy.
The titular Rabbit is a compelling portrayal of a now somewhat stock character, the coulda-been-a-contender (in this case basketball) bounced into a life of McJobs, dowdy small-town wives, and unwanted children.
Updike’s novel is the best depiction of this soap-opera conceit I have read: he transforms every banal scene into something riveting and moving and sexy and wrenching.
His dialogue, character nuance, sex scenes and melodramatic moments glisten with pearly descriptive gems and metaphors, and utilise a close third-person partial SoC narrative that adds dramatic heft to his characters’ reflections.
Rabbit is a brilliant creation—philandering bastard, all-too-human everyman, Hamlet-like dilly-dallier, tender lover and Mersault-like drifter.
And the surrounding characters, esp.
*runs to Rabbit*
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.)The CCLaP 100: In which I read for the first time a hundred so-called "classics," then write reports on whether or not they deserve the labelEssay #48: Rabbit, Run (1960), by John UpdikeThe story in a nutshell:(Much of today's recap was culled from Wikipedia, for reasons that are explained below.)Released right at the beginning of the countercultural 1960s, John Updike's "anti-hero" tale Rabbit, Run is centered around perhaps the most unlikable character in all of modern literature -- one Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom, that is, a 26-year-old former high-school basketball star and now full-time jackass, a married salesman in suburban Pennsylvania with one kid already and another on the way, until literally on the spur of the moment one night he decides to abruptly leave them and move to Florida; but after getting lost on his way out of town, he decides instead to visit his creepy old basketball coach, who takes him out for an awkward dinner with two white-trash part-time prostitutes.
I'm in a little bit of a post-novel haze, reminiscent of how I felt after finishing my first Fante novel, where I'm asking myself, why don't other writers speak of this person all the time and how is it that I haven't read him sooner?
I always read everything on 2 levels: as a reader and as a writer.
So I'm sitting here now, for three days now, trying to figure out what he does and how he does it so well.Since I was told I would hate John Updike because he's a racist misogynist, I wasn't prepared for the level of empathy and depth and real understanding of the human condition he presents.
If The Catcher in the Rye hit the American literary scene with shock and awe in 1951, then I can't even imagine what happened when Rabbit, Run hit the bookstores in 1960.
If you are the type who likes to examine life, even the life of a rat-bastard like Rabbit Angstrom, you will want to crack this cover.This is one of the most uncomfortable books I've ever read, but it's also one of the best written novels I've discovered in my lifetime.
I-can't-believe-I've-never-read-Updike-before writing.
Rabbit, Run is a book of running nowhere.We grow up, we marry, we work, we have children and one day we see that our life became a drab routine and total disappointment.
And we wish to return to the days of our youth when everything was new and the world shined.
And we revolt and run away… But is there a place to run to?“His idea grows, that it will be a monster, a monster of his making.
His life seems a sequence of grotesque poses assumed to no purpose, a magic dance empty of belief.
I don't really mind having waited to read the first in the series now, because I got to read it now and I absolutely loved it!This novel is about Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom, a 26-year old (which apparently in the 50s already made him something of a crypt-keeper), unlikeable man trapped in a job he hates that pays badly and an unhappy marriage and a son and another child on the way, reminiscing about his glory days of being good at basketball.
Here John Updike does everything I fail at: telling a story that feels completely un-forced and real in an unpretentious style that is both engaging and easy to read.
Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom is a married man with a toddler son who despises his wife and (view spoiler)[one evening gets into his car and simply leaves them (hide spoiler)].
Where Updike failed miserably was in not making Rabbit able to be sympathized with.
The next thing I know, Rabbit has left the scene, relieved, and I'm expected to sympathize with him, because somehow I’m supposed to understand his doing so is a matter of necessity.
I find the prose self-indulgent, the understanding of human nature self-serving, and the protagonist impossible to empathize with.
Would reading this book help me understand individuals I find narcissistic, misogynistic, and narrow-minded?
No, because I believe Updike is too shallow to offer us any great insight into either men or women, and I don't care to try harder to understand Updike or Rabbit.
Is Janice "dumb" or does she simply need Rabbit's patriarchal guidance?
Will Rabbit redeem himself and prove to be the hero he was always meant to become?
To those who gave this book bad reviews because they hate Rabbit. YOU"RE SUPPOSED TO HATE RABBIT!!! He is everything bad about post-modern culture and the American dream. Updike's brilliant novel is supposed to spit in your face. It may seem a little dated now but Updike caught the neuroses and turmoil of middle class 20th century American perfectly. I don't know. Maybe we are not even meant to enjoy this novel. Some great novels are not meant to entertain but to inform and enlighten. This is one great novel.
I’d really wanted to like it – to love it, in fact – and so I was really disappointed to have to abandon it.I'm a big fan of American literature and gobble up books by Auster, Roth, Wolfe, Franzen and even Salinger, as well as any number of contemporary thriller writers.
I just didn't like the way he (partially) gave up, driving back to where he came from to continue his life amongst the same people in the same place.Anyway, I think I’ll be in the minority but my overall feeling is that this book is a big ‘miss’ for me.
So here I am, reading this book in which I'm feeling nothing but contempt for the main characters, and I can barely make myself put the darn thing down.
It was absolutely engrossing from start to finish.I think the only thing that bothered me about this tale is that Mr. Updike was fond of very long rambling run on sentences, paragraphs really, that were somewhat confusing.
Now this book was apparently banned for explicit sex, among other things; how's this for explicit sex: Rough with herself, she forces the dry other into his face, coated with cool pollen that dissolves.
Mas, no decorrer da leitura, a minha visão das personagens é alterada e, ao contrário de outra afirmação de Wood - "Não é fácil encontrar na sua obra momentos de verdadeira angústia ou agonia." -, encontrei um momento na narrativa no qual o meu coração explodiu de angústia, quase me fazendo gritar...Harry Angstrom (Coelho) foi uma estrela de basquetebol que, aos 26 anos, trabalha como vendedor de máquinas de cozinha.
Conhece uma prostituta com a qual vai viver e que também abandona; regressa a casa e tudo é cada vez pior e foge novamente...É muito fácil odiar Coelho porque não hesita em virar costas ao que não o faz feliz: filhos, mulher, amante, trabalho,...vivendo sempre em fuga, numa corrida desenfreada, procurando um sentido para a sua vida."Corre Coelho.
