https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14034.The_Old_Capital
It's funny how Kawabata can drone on about cherry blossoms and camphor trees and local Kyoto festivals and yet keep one reading.
The is the story of an abandoned child, Chieko, who is found and raised by kind Kyoto shopkeepers, and her eventual reconnection by chance with her twin sister, Naeko, in post-occupation Japan.
Her foster parents suffer terrible guilt because Chieko is such a fine, solicitous child.
Twenty years later she's a beautiful woman who must make sense of her history.
Start perhaps with Thousand Cranes, Beauty and Sadness, Snow Country or The Sound of the Mountain.
Will a man ever cease from being an “emotional creature”?Bell crickets with violet garbs,Grasshoppers in empty hearts,Sullen memory patiently birth,Pristine illusions of a universe,Above the friendless pagodas,Lonely red pines call the sun,On sode of gracious kimono,Bright tulips delicately spun.Serenely, Kawabata weaves the threads of beautiful illusions that refuse to depart from our existence.
The crickets in the jar never knew a life beyond the glass walls, the violets never knew the joy of blooming in a field, the obi-makers could not imagine a world without silken weaves and kimonos, Chieko could not have conjecture the veracity of her abandonment, the cedars never knew a life beyond that of being a mere crop and the city of Kyoto never knew the existence beyond festive seasons.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، رمانِ "کیوتو" از آن دسته از کتابهایی نیست که موردِ پسندِ همگان باشد، مگر آنکه به شناختِ فرهنگ و آدابِ مردمانِ ژاپن علاقه داشته باشیدشهرِ کیوتو، پیش از توکیو، پایتختِ ژاپن بوده است که در سدهٔ هشتم میلادی، این شهر را بر اساسِ نقشه و طرحِ شهرِ "شنگن د تانگ" که پایتختِ چین بوده، ساخته اند... نویسندهٔ کتاب <کاواباتا>، با نوشتنِ این داستان، به نوعی حال و روزِ شهرِ کیوتو را پس از جنگِ جهانیِ دوم و ورودِ تمدنِ غربی به ژاپن، بررسی نموده است.. این موضوع که تمدنِ غرب و وجودِ ساختمانه
ولی با ورودِ تمدنِ اروپایی و آمریکایی به ژاپن، اوضاعِ کار و درآمدِ آنها بسیار بد شده است و این خانواده به سویِ ورشکستگی میروند‎شیکو زندگیِ آرامی دارد، تا آنکه با زنی از روستایِ گیتایاما، آشنا شده و اینگونه است که متوجه میشود خواهری داشته که در دورانِ نوزادی از یکدیگر جدا شده اند‎شیکو و ناکو، دوقلوهایِ داستانِ ما، هریک با پدر و مادری متفاوت، بزرگ شده اند و حال در دورانِ جوانی یکدیگر را پیدا کرده اند...
ولی مشکل آنجاست که این خواهران، در خانواده هایی رشد کرده اند که فرهنگشان با یکدیگر بسیار تفاوت داشته و سلیقه و کردار و گفتارشان نیز شباهتی به دیگری ندارد...
Nobel Prize winner Kawabata draws a beautiful period piece about Kyoto and the geisha period. I have been lucky enough to have been to Kyoto once and seen geishas (rare these days) taking a promenade, not unlike in this wonderful book. SOOO much better than the Golding Geisha book!
Her long lost twin sister, Naeko, is discovered by accident when Chieko has been feeling like the foundling.
I know that I would LIVE through anything for my own twin sister).
He's about more than that but sometimes I come up against this and I want to tell him to cut the shit and go back to being the LIVING person I know he was.
Why does Chieko "know" in her heart that Naeko could only be an illusion of her to anyone else?
Un roman excepţional!
She is the only child in the household and her parents had long confessed to her that she was their adopted child.Being concerned over her mysterious parentage and the unknown identity of her birth parents (bloodline and breeding has always been a great concern when marriage is concerned in Japan), Chieko has kept her distance with her suitors: her childhood best friend and a young man from a family of traditional weavers.Meanwhile, Chieko's foster father Takichiro is struggling to come up with new design for new kimono's patterns.
It captures traditional Japanese culture wonderfully.
Central to Japanese life and culture is the importance of beauty.
You understand that when you look at Japanese art in all its different forms - cloth, gardens, ceremonies, pottery and good writing such as this.I don't understand everything in this book.
I don't know how to describe the beauty of this book, except that it is so Japanese, and that I love.
At the same time, I do not understand how this culture so well finds what is beautiful in life and then behaves as they do in war!
I would definitely reread it soon.First, I like its structure, that is, each chapter a title given instead of Chapters 1-9 reveals something challenging for the readers to explore inside and interpret as much as can be as we can see hereafter: The Flowers of Spring, The Convent Temple and the Lattice Door, The Kimono Town, Kitayama Cedars, The Gion Festival, The Color of Autumn, The Green of Pines, Deep Autumn Sisters, and Winter Flowers.Second, I notice Kawabata has deliberately executed his own way of writing rarely found in other contemporary Japanese authors, his means has wonderfully proved effective, more effective than dialogs in all occasions.
Think, if you will, of the prominent empty spaces in Japanese landscape painting, the spareness of haiku requiring the reader to participate in the completing of the image and experience, the evanescence of ikebana (Japanese flower arranging), the openness of Japanese koto and flute playing, the breathtaking simplicity of the tea ceremony, the deliberate imperfections in traditional Japanese pottery, the radical emptiness and stillness of Zen meditation.This is a story and a novel stunning in its quietness and perfection, a jewel fully needing to be completed by the reader out of his or her own experience, a small piece of literature destined to haunt out of proportion to its apparent slightness, almost guaranteed to be understood and appreciated differently by each reader.

Kawabata refers to the type of shop that Takichiro and Shige own (they are Kimono wholesalers) -- the old style shop of Kyoto with lattice work and a curtain door. Kyoto, of course, was the city that received the least bomb damage during WWII, and many 19th cen. houses, even Pre-Meiji, survived.Below is a picture of a fabric shop in Nara that perfectly illustrates Takichiro's Kimono shop:(It is hard to make sense out of these later novels of Kawabata when reading them in translation.They must be very different in the original.)
3,5Το Κιότο ξεκινάει ρομαντικά για να καταλήξει σε μία υπόγεια μελαγχολία.Ένα βιβλίο για την πόλη της Ιαπωνίας με πολλές ( κι άλλες πολλές) περιγραφές για τη φύση και τις γιορτές της. Η ιστορία που μας περιγράφει (δύο δίδυμες αδελφές που ξαναβρίσκονται μετά από 20 χρόνια) παρουσίαζει ενδιαφέρον αν και στο τέλος μας αφήνει μια πικρή, λυπητερή γεύση, ένα απότομο τέλος , όπως τα λουλούδια. "Τα λουλούδια έχουν ζωή. Ζωή σύντομη, που όμως δεν περνάει απαρατήρητη".
هل ستلتقي البنفسجة العليا والبنفسجة السفلى أبدًا؟ هل تعرفان بعضهما بعضًا؟”تسير الأحداث برتابه حتى تلتقي أثناء أحد نزهاتها بشقيقتها التوأم ناييكو لتتضح ملامح قصة تخلي والديها عنها.
كان التوائم فيما مضى نذير شؤم عند اليابانيين وهو الأمر الذي دعا والديها المحرجين إلى التخلي عنها.
لماذا تخلى والديها عنها هي بالتحديد؟ هل شعرا بتأنيب الضمير؟ أين ولدت؟ متى وقع والدها من الشجرة؟ وهل ماتا مثقلين بذنب تخليهما عن ابنتهما؟ثم تقارن منزلتها الإجتماعية بمنزلة ناييكو التي احتفظ فيها والداها.
" - الأزهار تعيش.- تعيش؟ ذلك شيء أكيد.
بيد أنني ما فتئت أمل منها.- الأزهار تعيش.
This book is like the pearlescent veneer inside an abalone shell.
It's an empty thing, but the beauty is so moving that you feel impelled to keep it, so you put the shell in a drawer.
A few of the traditional annual ceremonies get cut due to financial hardship, kimono designs modernize, and the old ways - although still alive - are ever so subtly transitioning to a new world.The girl, Chieko, lives a life of contemplative beauty.
Her father, a textile merchant who designs kimonos and obis, is an artist.
It left my mind feeling clean and peaceful - in love, once again, with Japanese culture.
نميدونم يجوري بود،من كه نتونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار كنم
Kitabın arka kapağındaki tanıtımın, içeriğine çok da uygun olmadığını düşünüyorum. Aslında varoluşçu felsefenin izlerinin taşıyan, bir aşkın değil, yalnız bir ruhun, ruhların romanı. "Mutluluk kısa, yalnızlık ise uzundur." (Sf. 219). Özenli kurgusu ve akıcılığıyla, okuduğum en güzel Kavabata romanı. Sadece içerdiği Japon geleneği anlatımının, tanıtıma varan ısrarı, hikayenin bölünmesine ve akıcılığının kesintiye uğramasına neden olmuş. Bu romanında ilk kez, yazarın yakın arkadaşı olan ve benim hayranı olduğum Yukio Mişima izleri buldum. Ayrıca, çevirinin de başarılı olduğunu düşündüm.
الكتاب كان ممتع الى حد ما رغم الترجمة الركيكة تحدث اكثر شي عن المهرجانات اليابانية وعن الفتاة تشيكو التي تحب الذهاب اليها
Kawabata'nın çok özel bir anlatımı var.
Belli belirsiz söylemler, üstü kapalı konuşmalar, silik tasvirler ve en çok da insanın içine işleyen bir incelik var romanlarında.
Bir romancı için fazla büyük laflar gibi gelebilir bunlar.
Fakat Kawabata'nın ki daha özel ve saklı bir şey.
Çok küçük geleneksel ayrıntıların, estetik açısından Japon kültüründe ne kadar önemli olduğunu kavrıyorsunuz Kawabata okurken.
Fakat bu çeviriler çok özensiz ve önemli hatalarla doludur.
Sonrasında ise 2007'li yıllarda Doğan Yayıncılık yazarın dört eserini bastı.
"Kiraz Çiçekleri" Hüseyin Can Erkin tarafından yeniden çevirilmiştir.
Tek dileğim öncelikle Kawabata'nın sonrasında da diğer yazarların kıymetlerinin bilinmesi ve Türk okuyucu tarafından daha çok tanınması.İyi okumalar.5/5
This is the best fiction book I read this year.
Este o poveste despre iubire, aşa cum o poartă un suflet japonez: blândeţea şi duioşia dragostei de mamă pentru fiica ei, dragostea ren'ai a soţiei pentru soţul ei, dragostea totală a ficei, dragostea nemărturisită a samuraiului.
În puţine cuvinte sunt prezentate imagini bogate dar care nu sunt încărcate , în afară deo tristeţe care acompaniază fiecare pagină a cărţii.
Vechiul se întâlneşte cu noul, care înseamnă aici toate influenţele de după război.
Ajustarea spiritului japonez la influenţele occidentaleare are loc ca şi o poluare a lui.
داستان دل انگیز باغهای ژاپنی، شکوفههای گیلاس، درختان کافور، جشنها و جشنوارههای محلی و رسوم سنتی آن کشور است. بازتاب فلسفی افول فرهنگ سنتی ژاپن و مرثیه خواندنی کاواباتاست بر از دست رفتنِ هنرِ خلقِ لباسهای سنتی ژاپن: هنر کیمونو.پایتخت قدیم داستان چیه کو، تنها دختر صاحبان فروشگاهی در کیوتو است؛ پدر و مادری که به او گفتهاند که آنها او را از پدر و مادر واقعیاش هنگامی که نوزادی خفته در زیر درخت گیلاس بوده؛ به سرقت بردهاند، اما با این حال، دیدار چیکو با یک زن از روستای سروهای کیتایاما حقیقت را در مورد
خواننده در طول رمان با هجوم بی شمار نام های خیابان‌ها و باغ ها و کوه‌ها و معابد قدیمی کیوتو روبه‌رو می‌شود که این امر، فرد ناآشنا با فرهنگ ژاپن را دچار سردرگمی می‌کند، اما از طرفی دیگر کتاب کیوتو به همین دلیل در جایگاه یک فرهنگ‌نامه خاص ژاپنی قرار می‌گیرد که اهتمام مترجم فارسی در توضیح و تشریح نام ها و مکان ها و جشنواره‌های مورد اشاره در رمان، در پی نوشت‌های پایان کتاب، خواندن رمان کیوتو را تبدیل به یک مکاشفه لذت‌بخش می‌کند.چیه کو قهرمان بیست ساله رمان، تجسم آرمان‌های کاواباتاست از حساسیت عمیق، زیبایی، سادگی، خلوص و باکره‌گی.
não considero excepcional, embora seja superior ao que já li do autor. é, por outro lado, tremendamente marcante - foi a primeira vez que me deu real vontade de visitar o Japão e concretamente a cidade de Quioto. entre o muito bom e o excelente, classifico por excesso.
The Old Capital  written by Yasunari Kawabata is an #OwnVoices Japanese fiction novel about the modernisation practices that began to spread across Japan post-WWII, and the struggle that many older generation Japanese society had with compromising their traditions and customs for the sake of a new era. It's told through the eyes of a young girl named Chieko, who is the adopted daughter of a kimono maker and his wife. Through the adventures she partakes in in Kyoto, we learn a lot about this cul
written by Yasunari Kawabata is an #OwnVoices Japanese fiction novel about the modernisation practices that began to spread across Japan post-WWII, and the struggle that many older generation Japanese society had with compromising their traditions and customs for the sake of a new era.
Kyoto became the capital of Japan during the Heian Era and remained as such for over a thousand years.
The severe attention to detail doesn't stop with the economic persona of Kyoto, but is also demonstrated via festivals, natural surroundings, shrines, character interactions, etc.I got the impression that the author was not inclined to go along with Japan's quick Westernisation.
One 'Shincho' editor averred that among the leading postwar writers only Mishima Yukio and Oe Kenzaburo did no such thing.Mishima himself was not truthful, either; he had written much – how much remains unknown – of '(House of) Sleeping Beauties', which was serialized in 'Shincho' from January 1960 to November 1961, with a good deal of interruption, with Kawabata's hospitalization at the end of 1960."
There are books that are not for everybody because they are so seemingly complex.
And there are books that are not for everybody because they are so seemingly simple.
This book falls in the latter category.
Kawabata is an acquired taste.
I like his books because of their understated beauty - the kind you don't see unless you look carefully and pay attention and your mind is quiet enough to hear.
What happens in this book?
It almost doesn't matter.
There are lots of walks through the beautiful gardens of Kyoto.
Trust me, what happens is not that important in Kawabata's books.
¿era el llamado del espíritu de su padre?Lo primero que leí de Kawabata fue País de nieve y no conectamos.
No sé si fue tanta la nieve que quedé aplastada bajo la historia o no me gustó la edición, la traducción, vaya a saber uno.
Todo transcurre como una apacible taza de té verde hasta Chieko descubre que tiene una hermana melliza.
Kawabata nos presenta esta historia como un drama familiar, pero también, bajo hermosos y brillantes kimonos, hay una crítica hacia el Japón de la post guerra.
La mayoría de los occidentales creen que hay un solo Japón.
Identical twins orphaned and then separated shortly after birth. One stays near the home village and works on the land, the other is adopted by a middle class shopkeeper and his wife.After twenty years or so the girls meet again. Cue confusion amongst suitors and a slow dawning realisation that their paths have diverged too much for the genetic bonds to hold. all against the backdrop of a Japan that is modernising rapidly and changing from the old ways.Interesting and beautifully written but a bit slow for my tastes
I’ve read several of his works, but I have to admit that this novel is one that has me confused – almost baffled.
It is a short work that tells the story of a young woman, Chieko, who suddenly learns from her ‘parents’ that she was not their biological descendent.
Kawabata makes sure that he tells his story using allusions to various plants around the village that he believes help the story along.
We non-Japanese readers basically have no clue as to what the authors are trying to tell us – unless, of course, the author is willing to take a page or two to describe the relations between the plants and his characters.
3.5/5I hadn't thought that it'd be possible for a book to be both super subtle and extremely heavy-handed, but I've been wrong before.
Speaking of the festivals, I can't parse why Kawabata spent so much of his story writing out Wikipedia-style sections on the various culture customs centered around Kyoto.
Culture clash, sure, but I do wish the women had come off as a little bit more human.I somehow amassed three unread Kawabata books at the same time, but I'm good for now.
It's just a shame, though, that I'm halfway into a four book bout with a Nobel Prize for Lit winner but don't have any faith left in the institution giving out awards today.
Beautiful novel; Chieko is the young daughter of a Kyoto kimono designer/seller Takichiro and his wi
