https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1544073.Jew_S_ss
I initially picked it up because its the book behind the most anti-semetic film ever made.
However, the book itself is not anti-semetic.
But everyone else in the book is horrible too.
The worst character in the book is probably the Duke, a Protestant turned Catholic, who repeatedly rapes women, and enables Suss to do all the bad things he does (because it's mostly to enrich the Duke).
Suss, in a way, is a heroic character, he reminded me of Valmont (dangerous liaisons), amoral, suave, seductive, but with some goodness buried deep inside.
This is my favorite book of all time.I should write a tribute to this book, not a review.
What can you say about this book—it not only captures the Baroque period so well, but it is a distant mirror of the times that Feuchtwanger wrote it in.
It captures the German soul in a way that only an inside/outside person like Feuchtwanger could.Maybe you have to be a fan of historical fiction, know Jewish history, know German history, and numerous other niches this falls into, but I guess that's where I stand.
But this is less wordy, more playful, and more honest than Tolstoy.Please, English readers: put this book up where it belongs.
This book is so good that anything I might say about the story being "powerful" and "tragic" and "noble" would just be trite. But, if you are thinking about reading War & Peace or Crime & Punishment, please consider putting that crap aside and reading Feuchtwanger instead.
abused by Nazi propaganda as Antisemiism of the worst kind this is a thoughtful account of the contributions and relationships of German Jews with their fatherland
This book nonetheless stands out from his oeuvre although not by its own design but due to the abuse of its topic by the Nazis who took it as inspiration for a disgusting movie perverting Feuchtwanger's work to anti-semitic propaganda.As most of his books, he's concerned with aspects of judaism.
It's the story of Joseph Süß Oppenheimer, a Jewish banker at the court of Württemberg in the early 18th century.
This is the part which the Nazis took literally and perverted the motive of the eternal Jew in their propaganda.
Once his protector dies, persecution starts.Feuchtwanger himself gave his true motivation for this book.
A very deep book, that shows in detail the life and culture of an epoch, late 17th - early 18th centuries. In addition, we get a fascinating story, understanding how power and politics work. And of course, prejudices, and racism, and the history of antisemitism. All this in a dark atmosphere almost devoid of feelings and emotions.
This is simply the propaganda book of all time. The film by the same name is even worse. Required reading for an understanding Nazi Germany.
Written on the verge of the the largest wave of antisemitism that the world have ever known, this book was later used as Nazi propaganda against the Jews in Germany, and their 'betrayal of the Fatherland'.
The book also allows us to understand European politics worked during that period of time; The stuggle between the nobility, the catholic and protestant church as well as the rich.
The story is one full of prejudice and racism against Jews, as was very common in that period of time.
Great book.
It was a great pleasure to read it.
The story is well written, the characters are beautifully carved and deep.
It is a book that depicts people and life as it is: far from being perfect.
I read it in Hungarian ( the English translation was not available for some reason ) and the translation was superb, romantic novel at its best.As for the important question of antisemitism - I'd argue that the book is not antisemitic.
I think the Christian characters in the book are depicted to be worse than the protagonist.
So go ahead and read it!
Joseph Suss Oppenheimer is a Jew who rises to the axis of power in a 19th century German duchy. As his star rises so does his fortune. Money and fame fail to appease him and finally, lust and the endless desire for more lead to his downfall. A meditative, fascinating look at the corruption of a man.
Ich muss gestehen, die Geschichte des historischen Joseph Süß war mir unbekannt, insofern kam das Ende etwas überraschend. Feuchtwanger deutet die ganze Zeit, während sein Held in Gefangenschaft auf seinen Prozess wartet, an, dass das alles zu einem geheimen Plan gehört. Jedenfalls las ich das so.Keine uninteressante Geschichte, aber die Sprache Feuchtwangers ist an sich schon antiquiert und hier ist es besonders, sagen wir, unzugänglich, da er die Sprache des frühen 18. Jahrhunderts zu emulieren versucht. Eine gekürzte Fassung dieses Buchs zu lesen, wäre die bessere Idee gewesen.
Az 1700-as évek Bajorországában játszódik és nekem nagyon érdekes volt. A jó és a gonosz küzdelme az emberben. Szerintem Lion Feuchtwanger egyszerűen zseniális író. Úgy írja le a történtet, mintha így is történt volna az egész. Mindenkinek ajánlom, aki szereti a történelmet, a lélektani átalakulást. Érdeklődik a zsidók integrálódásának folyamata iránt.
И это не смотря на то, что сам Зюсс имел влиятельного отца, о котором предпочитал не говорить, и евреем он был только по матери.
В то время, как принявший христианскую веру, брат, в отличии от Зюсса, был чистокровным евреем, что не помешало ему сделать карьеру, отказавшись от предрассудков и, разумеется, иудаизма.
Более показательный пример найти трудно, может именно поэтому Фейхтвангер взялся рассказать о евреях в своей самой первой книге, стараясь донести до читателя всю тяжесть предопределения: человек не выбирает где ему родиться, но человек определяет как ему жить, ведь человек всегда может стать кем-то другим, если откажется от данной судьбой жизни.
Зюсс предпочёл остаться евреем.(c) Trounin
I know this is incorrect by today's standards but I found it to give a bit of understanding why everyone, for as long as this nation has been around, have been after them to one degree or another, wherever they have settled down in any significant numbers. Very interesting
read it in Danish translation though
something new that I never read
Antisemitism in middle ages, Good story of rise and fall of a financier to the aristocracy, expendable when no longer needed,
Ook toen was de Jood het mikpunt als het sommigen uitkwamHet gebeurt steeds weer opnieuw
