https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900681.An_Inspector_Calls_and_Other_Plays
I loved An Inspector Calls, especially the line "if man will not learn his lesson he will be taught in fire blood and anguish". The whole play has such a powerful message.
An Inspector Calls is great!
As an IGCSE English teacher the text has excellent bits for analysis while maintaining a story that is accessible and interesting for G9 and G10 students.
The students absolutely loved the play and many listed it as a favorite part of the course.
At the ending the students were shouting out loud (I'm not joking) at the plot twists.
Highly recommended as a text for study.The other plays didn't move me as much and are the reason for the four star review.
When ordering this book for next year I will just order An Inspector Calls as a stand alone play.
Studies at school. Loved the mystery and the themes. Still has me wondering ...  5/5
I read this play at school.
I absolutely loved the building up of the suspense, the characters and how each of them had a story, the interconnection of the lives of all the characters, and the message behind it.
Stunning work by the play write!
This modern play includes class conflict and differences, the selfishness of individuals, capitalism vs communism, and greed being the root of all problems.
Loved this!
(I believe that the best part and the aspect that makes me love this play so much is that despite having a moral at the end, it really is like a book with stage directions.
"We don't live alone. We are members of one body. We are responsible for each other. And I tell you the time will soon come when, if men do not learn that lesson, then they will be taught in fire and blood and anguish".
I really like this book :) I would recommend it, in some sense it can change you - into becoming a better person with your actions :) and it has a good ending too.
It was so enjoyable reading inspector calls again as well as reading some of his other plays which I have never heard of before. Forgot how much I love reading plays....
You want proof that guessing what the author meant when they made something or someone up doesn't work?
This is the first time I've ever read An Inspector Calls.
Inspector Priestley was totally not (or at least not to my knowledge) named after JB.
This is a totally brilliant and totally horrifying play that I'd have absolutely used as book material if I'd read it before.
Now's my chance, I guess!
(12+)*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only.
Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first.
I recently re-read this again, as I studied it many, many years ago for GCSE English. The BBC adapted it recently, and I thought it was a fantastic version of the play. One of my favourites. Priestley manages to capture the moral complexity of our everyday lives and just goes to show how our behaviour could affect others.
An inspector calls... Man this is a read of all reads. Man...
Instead, yet again, I find another 'well-known' text which leaves me with a 'what were we thinking' feeling when I try to figure out why the work is so famous.There's no doubt that 'An Inspector Calls' is the best of the four in this volume - with 'The Linden Tree' a not-so-close second - but that really doesn't say much.
What might have seemed clever to a young man 30 years ago now feels stale.I don't know who decided to include 'An Inspector Calls' in the current GCSE set list for English, but in doing so I'm not sure they've done the reputation of institutionalised learning in the UK much good.
These four plays, especially An Inspector Calls, make significant contributions to the 20th-century literature of time.Time and the Conways (first performed 1937): The first act takes place on a birthday night in 1919 and introduces us to the many members of the Conway family, two of whom have just come home from the war, plus a few others.
All these plays take place in the provinces, away from the big cities, and in The Linden Tree one glimpses the urbanization that would mark the second half of the 20th century: two characters have already moved to London, and by the final curtain a third has joined them.
I got this book as I wanted to reread An Inspector Calls which was a play I loved when we did it at school and it was just as good as I remembered.
The plays in the books are:Time And The Conways - set at a family birthday party where they are playing charades in the first scene, you are introduced to the Conway family who all seem happy and looking forward to what's coming in life.
I feel that the only redeeming character in this is Sheila but it's a great storylineThe Linden Tree - a play about a husband and wife who want different things out of life and their children opinion's of it.
I had to read An Inspector Calls for my English Theatre class and, since this edition came with three other plays I thought I'd give them a try.I found And Inspector Calls very intriguing.
The use of time between acts was so powerful in the development and downfall of each character's storyline.
Just a bit.As for the other two plays, I found I Have Been Here Before quite intriguing but I didn't quite understant Dr Görtler's theories by the end, which made it difficult to follow through at times; and there isn't really much comment on The Linden Tree.
With Inspector Goole's strong and powerful statements and low-key implications the author made by the setting since the very beginning of the play, the scenarios build up a prophetic, mysterious role of the inspector and appeal to the empathy of the audience in a successful way, which, makes this particular play a classic moral fable.And, to be honest, I don't have too much to say about Priestley's works.
Many of his works, like the other three in this collection, are related to time travelling or anachronism and try to develop and communicate his own philosophical sense about time issues, which, with all respect to his thinking and working I say this, are ambiguious at most time, and not that clear and strong as his political claims.
One of the great things about the Modern Mrs. Darcy reading challenge is that it has encouraged me to read outside my normal reading lane. It has exposed me to books that I would not have read. I would not have picked up An Inspector Calls and Other Plays on my own. The reading challenged prompted this book choice. I'm glad I read this book because I found it quite entertaining. Read more
There were moments that I liked such as Inspector Goole interrogating the Birling family and his characterisation was a bit more likeable compared to the other characters in the story.
However there were some moments that I found too predictable.
Maybe it's because I've read Sherlock Holmes before and have been a little spoilt when it comes to detective stories but there wasn't a lot of mystery in this play that peaked my interest.
The ending also seemed to me a bit odd considering that this didn't come across as a play with supernatural elements at all.
The first time I read it, I got through the first two acts, thinking, 'Yes, this is a good piece.
The man has a gift.JB Priestley was, of course, a strong upholder of Socialist values and ideologies, with notoriously left wing views, and this came across clearly in his writing.
Inspector Goole acted as a spokesperson for Socialist views, but Priestley made it so that his opinions came across extremely well.
No, the Inspector just used the characters of the Birlings (and Gerald) to show the audience exactly what he wanted them to see, and contemplate the things that he consigned for them to.
I read this book with school and, as usual with books from school, I didn't expect it to be anything fantastic but I actually ended up loving the way that this was written. The ending was such a cliff hanger but wow the story was good. There were a lot of mini plot twists that I didn't see coming and that made my reading experience of this book extremely enjoyable.
Please link here to read my review of An Inspector Calls.
An Inspector Calls a classic play by Priestly, if not a tad overrated. In this collection I prefer the second play I have been here before. All four make a interesting collection, all similar in theme but different enough to keep them interesting.
Some very thought provoking plays
I read this edition mainly for Inspector (I was at my cousin's house and kind of bored) but I fell in love with Priestley's other plays as well.
It was super engaging and a really good story. The characters were so interesting and the plot twists were extremely clever.
I had to read the play after watching the dramatisation as I didn't quite understand who or what the inspector was at the end. I still don't but perhaps that is the point.
Even though I only read one of the 4 plays in this book, and I had to read it for school, it was still really interesting to read!
(an inspector calls)this was actually pretty good! i listened to the audiobook while reading along 10/10 recommend because i never would have been able to get through it otherwise.
I read this play as my grandson will be studying it for his exams next year ..I quite enjoyed it ..I'm going to try the questions and explorations at the back of the book now 😳
read An Inspector Calls for GCSE English Literature - enjoyable, as far as books you've got to read for school goes... not a fan of reading plays though, in script form.
There is more of a definitive plot to the story than in 'Time and the Conways' but the setting is rather drab and I think I preferred the first one, what with the outcome of the play.'An inspector calls' was the one i had been looking forward to, and it definitely lived up to my expectations.
To chose:'Time and the Conways' - best characters/setting'I have been here before' - most intriguing/best mood'An inspector calls' - best plot'The linden tree' - most relatableI really hope you read this and that the little guide is helpful for you!
