https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161884-bad-boy
Briefly, he had to be nervy and quick-thinking."Although Jim Thompson writes of the sweetness in his youth, make no mistake, right from the start, Jim had to do battle with bouts of hunger and a craving for hard liquor.
Life was tough and a boy growing up had to be nervy and quick-thinking.
And once a man, nervy and quick-thinking both became pressing necessities for Jim Thompson, who was poor and obliged to support a family and, on top of this, had to find time to fulfill his passion for writing fiction.
Thompson earned money to go to college by selling bootleg whiskey for Al Capone's network.Take THAT, Don Fucking DeLillo.
This is the only nonfiction Thompson out of the nineteen I've read. Not a memoir of his entire life, but just his early life up to age twenty two. His fiction is more entertaining but these stories hold their own. Fascinating enough to me of course I've never found a Thompson I didn't like.
in his novels, thompson comes off as a guy who understands the ins and outs of everything-- every person, every business, every relationship, every idea...
the difference between his novels and this book, though, is that, in this, thompson also understands himself perfectly well.
i read thompson to experience the terror and tension of living inside, essentially, a psychopath-- someone who is hiding even from himself, someone who doesn't know what he's capable of, what he's about to do, or even, sometimes, what he has done.
it's just not a jim thompson novel, is all.
Jim Thompson’s Bad Boy is tepid autobiography in the vein of Jim Tully’s early books: a series of broad-stroke anecdotes in search of a narrative. The book gets stronger as it goes, with its most famous section detailing Thompson’s encounters with the sheriff who inspired the creation of The Killer Inside Me’s Lou Ford. But this juxtaposition serves only to highlight the comparative thinness of Bad Boy: Thompson may have been haunted by his memories of this man, but in the real-life telling he is (perhaps unavoidably) the barest husk of Lou Ford.
A great auto-biography detailing Thompson's youth. About as wild and lively as you'd expect, but without the hard-boiled veneer of his fiction.
Thompson’s memoir is entertaining, but nowhere near as good as his fiction - just a long string of raucous anecdotes from his childhood through early twenties, but with no narrative arc or any pause for context or self-analysis. Still, it was interesting to see that he mined much of his early life as the raw material for his unforgettable fiction.

BAD BOY is more than a book, it's more than fiction or nonfiction, it's a document of a time in American history that was unlike any other. A time when the power of the nation was on the cusp of exploding forth in a wave of possibility and it's captured perfectly by one of the most linguistically creative writers the twentieth century was fortunate to have.
Jim Thompson evocatively recreates the Texas and Oklahoma of his boyhood with this autobiographical novel.
Jim Thompson's "Bad Boy," is a quick and effective autobiographical account of his early life.
Bad Boy will certainly spur my mind into reading more of his words.The only novel of Thompson's I've read was "After Dark, My Sweet." There's a moment in that novel where you have to say to yourself, "Holy- I'm reading a book about kidnappers.
They might kill this kid." Jim Thompson was fearless as a writer, this came from a childhood that involved a full-time job, whiskey as medicine, and teenage years more focused on surviving hard labor jobs on oil rigs than asking a date to prom.
Worth a read, some good tales and the cop who scared him enough to become The Killer Inside Me, that was my favourite story...
His father was a lawman who was run out of the country and later an oilman who gambled with Warren G Harding, before bankrupting the family.Jim Thompson was a farmhand at his grandparents' homestead, bellhop, a failed film actor ('Kid, Charlie Chaplin will have to swim back to England!'), a diaper-act in a burlesque show, alcoholic, highschool student, pulp fiction writer and a gambler.
I passed the days writing, thinking, swimming in the river, eating and sleeping.
Bad Boy isn't essential Thompson, mostly because it's unlike anything he's ever written (except for the sequel, of course).
With this book, Thompson forgoes his typical lewd tales of murder and desperation for a collection of humorous accounts of his young life.
Bad Boy often strays too far into the realm of folksiness, especially during his younger days, but Thompson's autobiography manages to show much of what informed the author's work.
I plan on checking out the follow-up, Roughneck, and the biography Savage Art next to see how Thompson's take on himself matches up with reality.
Multi - generational self - destructiveness!
Intelligence, hardwork & ambition cannot overcome generations of self - defeatism.
(As successful as JT became he was always prepared for defeat.) But when it does something fantastic happens.
It's no wonder the USA created, or at least lead, the post - WWII boom.
Nothing was impossible after 2 generations of WWI, the reckless boomtime 1920's, the despair of the 1929 economic crash & Great Depression, the combination of eventually joining & leading the fight for survival against fascism & having world leadership thrust into their hands (or seizing it from the worn-out Europeans).
Pretty straight forward, at times bordering on "Texas Tall Tales".
But there are a few anecdotes that you can see later made it into his novels (especially the story of dealing with the man who would later become "The Killer Inside Me").
His stories of working as a bell boy in a hotel are worth the read, as are his tales of working in the oil fields.
Some time spent in NE as well - including a semester or so at the U of NE.
Worth a read, and looking forward to "Roughneck", his second, and final, volume of memoirs.
I didn't realize this book was nonfiction until I started reading it, but I like the way Jim Thompson writes, so I read on.
Over all it was interesting, but not a book I'd read again or probably even remember much about, partly because his early life plodded along like real life, no overall arc.
Some things I wanted to know more about like when he found out he had TB--what happened with that?
Like his novels, the end was quirky.
Jim Thompson’s proto/pseudo autobiography Bad Boy is not one of his better efforts and seems hardly worth the effort.
If Bad Boy was your first experience with his work you might not be tempted to read more.
This pretty much sums up the book.
Though this book was a bust, there are others of Thompson’s which are brilliant.
Notables would be: The Getaway, The Killer Inside me, Savage Night, After Dark, My Sweet, Pop. 1280, A Hell of a Woman, and The Grifters are all worth the time it would take to read them.
An honest autobiography by one of the best crime writer of all ages with razor sharp account of personal experience with honest description of real life experience. Jim Thomson ingenuity is realised by this departure from the real world. One of the few writer to write and think beyond ages and has the imagination of being ageless.One should get Lesson from his honest description of childhood howsoever dark it may be. Lesson learnt from jim novels is to be brutally honest and do not hesitate to tell the truth.
At times this was compelling; at other times I wanted more insight or details. The narrative just ends abruptly, rather than wrapping up in any sort of fashion. Does offer fascinating glimpses into the lives of this family; however, another writer (that is, one who is not famous) may have been asked for another re-write before publishing. Some details are coyly glossed over, even though they concern events from decades ago. This volume did not leave me wanting to read more memoir from this author.
Oh, Jim Thompson. What a life led. This autobiographical account recalls his problematic early years. You can see the seeds planted of the great dark novelist he would become. This book makes you laugh, cry, and feel terror (the recounting of the fight with the deputy who inspired Lew Ford from The Killer Inside Me was positively bone chilling). Should be read by anyone who is a fan of the man's work.
Prima parte dell'autobiografia di Jim Thompson.Vita tra alti e bassi condita con molto alcol.Sembra quasi che il 'cadere' per Thompson non sia una disgrazia ma l'opportunità per potersi rialzare e raccontarne l'avventura.Vita dura, vita vissuta a cavallo delle grandi guerre, raccontata come estrema umiltà in questo godibilissimo libro.
This is not a typical Jim Thompson novel, and it will also likely disappoint anyone looking for an in-depth biography. It's a series of short anecdotes - a sortof pointillist memoir. I liked it a lot because its lack of cohesive narrative feels so honest. This is how life really is - we impose narrative on it after the fact. Thompson was a remarkable writer to be able to avoid the urge to do so.
RadiciAutobiografia di un autore che sin da ragazzino dimostra il suo anticonformismo, poi esploso prepotentemente nei suoi romanzi, che restano comunque lo strumento migliore per respirare l'inferno Thompsoniano.
My first Jim Thompson book. Interesting book. Don't like how it just ended midway through ditching town -- with 'no' explanation as to what book the story continues in. Being a Part 1 you would think finding the title of Part 2 would not be so difficult.
Raised by a family that could have inspired the Royal Tennanbaums Jim Thompsom packs a lot of hard living into his first 16 years. Laugh out loud funny with inspired criminal hijinks. A wonderful companion to You Can't Win and any John Fante.
I'd rather have given this 3.5 stars, but alas, that option doesn't exist. I really enjoy his writing and reading this portion of his autobiography was interesting (especially since he spent time in Fort Worth), but the ending? C'mon, Jim!! -.5 stars for a very unsatisfying, abrupt ending.
Sentimental and embellished but it's still Jim Thompson.
equal parts Thompson plinking around with some of his favorite character-types and themes and shameless self-promotion. Read the real fiction first.
I have a soft spot for Jim Thompson, so I enjoyed this bit of memoir. Tall, booze-soaked tales, but from an unheimlich era--we think we know it, but we don't.
