https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402014.On_the_Bright_Side_I_m_Now_the_Girlfriend_of_a_Sex_God
As seen on The ReadventurerThe only thing I am going to say here is that Dave the Laugh is the best boyfriend ever.
Dave is a total dream boat......and yes, I know I am twice his age.This snippet is for my present and future entertainment:8:35 pmYou can make a sort of nose sling out of pair of knickers [panties:]!
He's all happy now that Angus has gone off poodle baiting in favor of the Burmese sex kitten.8:46 pmOh hello, here comes Mark, my ex, the breast fondler.
I don't know how I could ever have thought about snogging him; he wears extremely tragic trousers.
I think I liked the second book even more than the first one in the series, because Dave the Laugh is my favorite character. I love Georgia's confusion as to whether it's more important to have a boyfriend who makes you go jelloid or one who makes you laugh.Really enjoying this re-read of the series. Bring on the next one!
Picture, if you will, Bridget Jones as a 14 yr. old girl. She has a crush on the cute musician next door, has a few close girlfriends who help her with her schemes and a quirky family which includes a three year old sister who sometimes terrorizes her.  Very cute series written in diary form. Relaxing, entertaining and makes me thrilled to not only have me out of my teen years, but my kids, too. 😊
No "proper" Review again...- Dave The Laugh- ALL OF MY TEENAGE YEARS- Piddly Diddly Department.I love this series.
The second instalment. Still as witty and easy to flick through as the first. They're being good to me; distracting me from all the revision I should be doing.
Still just as good as the first one!
This book was every bit as fun as I expected it to be. This series is just really cute, funny and light-hearted. Georgia is simply hilarious and I never tire of her dramatic reactions. Her witty diary entries are infectious and I find them impossible to look away from. This installment did drag at parts but it was mostly as entertaining and amusing as the first. I'm certainly looking forward to see what else is in store for Georgia.
Jas has like broke up twice with her boyfriends thanks to Georgia.
Thank God that Jas is not that dumb and she comes back to him, because they are a really sweet couple.
Even she looked surprised by what had come out of her.”I'm trying to understand if Georgia's sister, Liberty aka Libbs, has a problem because she does the most random and weird things.
Girls like to be cozy all the time but boys don't.
Then, after a bit of on-their-own strategy, they ping back to be close to you.”I'm trying to understand Georgia's way, I do, but I can't.
Ode to Georgiaaptly retitled: Dayum, am I glad I accepted Cecile's FR and followed her book rec.Good grief, Thy Schnozzle-beaked Fabulosity, elle qui est amies with the "really big knickers"-wearing one! Thy powers of hilariosity never disappoint me.Result!!! OhmyGodohmyGodohmyGod now PLEASE dump the SG &get off with Dave the Laugh, already! Bloody sacré blue,I CANNOT BELIEVE that he doesn't make your kneesall jelloid. Your fabbity fab fans agree that SG isnot worthy, he is not worthy. His
Ode to Georgiaaptly retitled: Dayum, am I glad I accepted Cecile's FR and followed her book rec.Good grief, Thy Schnozzle-beaked Fabulosity, elle qui est amies with the "really big knickers"-wearing one!
Icould not be happier that I still have eight moreof the Ace Gang's adventures to read.Let out your Buddhist warrior chant when you'resurrounded by les idiots and tell me how the world youOm Om Om in is BONKERS with knobs!!!Never let the wet and weedy one (Lindsay) defeat you,for she is only jelly of votre maturosity.
Oh blimey - what a life!!!This ace bit of jibberish and senselessness was brought to you by:
Although not a lot happens in this book (and I preferred the first one), it’s really funny and witty.
Don’t take this book too seriously.
I’ve seen a lot of people complaining that Georgia is only focused on her nose and on her boyfriend.
She’s an angsty teenager, kinda mean to her friends, and in love with a Sex God. I was laughing reading this book and I mean  actually laughing .
Georgia is a well of golden sassy quotes.
Goodbye.” Also thanks to Holly for recommending this book series ☀️
Yeah, no. This series is definitely not for me.
He said, ‘I just called to say I really liked you.
When I think about the two of them, that jailbait infatuation, it congers up an image of Gidget and the Kahuna.
;) But it’ll probably end the same way with Gidget getting her Moondoggie.
They say that some people never get over things, like whatshername, Kathy Thing.
She said, ‘Why are you walking in that stiff way?’ ‘I’m girding my loins.’ ‘Well, it looks painful, like you’ve got a stick up your bottom.’”
To quote Gee: " i am in the land of the very fab, in fact beyond the valley of fab and into the universe of marvy"The books are making me very happy in addition to laughing my knickers off!
What I like most about the Georgia Nicolson series is that it doesn’t try to be posh.
This installment picked up where Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging left off, with Georgia losing the SG and protesting a move to Kiwi-a-gogo Land (a.k.a. New Zealand).
Georgia is like the friend you want to dope slap, but just shake your head and laugh at instead because you realize whatever you do won’t make a lick of difference.
Anyway, is it wrong that I dislike the SG and think Georgia should beg Dave the Laugh (a.k.a. best boyfriend EVER) to take her back?
Oh, Georgia. <3
Strongly feel as though I owe about 200% of my personality to these books
Five Stars for Nostalgia.Would also highly recommend the audiobook for this series as it's narrated by the author and is hilarious!Something I discovered while rereading this - Robbie's a bit of a DickSomething that's still true after rereading this - Dave's a sweetheart <3
I was in the library looking for a book to read, and I came across this one that I had actually failed at finding before.
There were many quotes that I love in the book, but one of my favourites was "What is there to laugh at?
Life is a sham and a facsimile and a farce." The quote shows Georgia's frustration with her life at the moment, but also shows a bit of her comical side.
It was fun reading the bits she wrote in French and in German also.
I recommend this book to girls in need of a laugh, and who are experiencing boy problems.
3.5 stars  Georgia is quite literally the description of a self-centred, over-dramatic teenager, who only wants all the attention on her and no one else, which is pretty annoying but simply accurate on how most of the young teenagers are.
Even though this was the case and that I sometimes I cringed at the use of words (this book is written as a diary of a 14 years old girl so vocabulary included), I couldn't stop reading.
Even if Georgia's behaviour it's kinda annoying sometimes.
She is so disgusting and irritating hahaha I don't even know how to put it in words.
Actual rating: 1.5 starsInitial thoughts: My intention was to read all the books in the series.
I don't think that's gonna happen after all.
The first book was half-way entertaining.
This second one was tiresome to read.
Georgia is beyond self-absorbed.
Sure, it's her diary and she's 14 but she shows no respect for anyone in her life, not even her best friend.
In fact, she displays no true affection for her best friend at all.
The only strength I found was the consistency of Georgia's character, which I didn't even like reading anymore.
This book has been one of my favorites!
I ususally am not a big fan of reading, but this book had totally been amazing.
It's about a girl named Georgia who is from Britain, so she uses a lot of unfamiliar words that are fun to read.
She was the girlfriend of a boy named Robbie a.k.a "the sex god." He found out something that made him break the relationship, and as you can imagine she got very upset.
Georgia really likes him so she does some pretty funny stuff to get his attention.
If you want a good laugh, read this.
When I was a teenager, I was nowhere near as boy crazy as Georgia but I was every bit as dramatic... Georgia is so ridiculous. Like, I kinda think it's hilarious when something unbelievably embarrassing happens to her because she is so awful to other people, haha.
I can't believe what she did to Dave. I just can't. But this was hilarious too.
Enjoyed the first one more, but still really enjoyed it! And once again, I found myself going back to my middle school days relating to Georgia
Some of the books in this series have different titles between the original and US versions. I grew up reading On the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God and was confused when my paperback copy had the following title I'll explain in a play-by-play between my parents and I on a weekend trip:Me: "Mom, did you move my book off the table?"Mom: "I don't know, what's it called?"Me, quietly: "It's OK, I'm Wearing Really Big Knickers."Mom: "What?"Me, louder but faster: "It'sOKI'mWearingReallyBigKnickers."Mom: "What?"Me: "IT'S! OKAY! I'M! WEARING! REALLY! BIG! KNICKERS!"Dad: "For crying out loud, Lauren!"
Cross-posted from my  blog post. Why Georgia Nicolson Rocks(On the Bright Side, I'm Now The Girlfriend of a Sex God edition)1. She calls breasts “basoomas” and, less commonly, “nunga nungas”. (“‘Well, he says that if you get hold of a breast and pull it out and then let it go…it goes nunga nunga nunga!’”)2. She seems obsessed with pants/shorts. Besides the obvious metaphorical “nuddy-pants” and “furry-shorts” (which we see in later titles), she’s always going on about how big someone’s shorts ar
Why Georgia Nicolson Rocks(On the Bright Side, I'm Now The Girlfriend of a Sex God edition)1.
She calls breasts “basoomas” and, less commonly, “nunga nungas”.
Besides the obvious metaphorical “nuddy-pants” and “furry-shorts” (which we see in later titles), she’s always going on about how big someone’s shorts are and how frightening that is.
She’s British, so she uses Britishisms, like tosser, bloke, marvy, fringe, loo, and knickers.
[minutes later:] G: I wonder if the Sex God will call me.
She never quite knows what she’s on about, and says so on multiple occasions.10.
I actually read the first book by this author, which I thought was Bridget Jones but with teenage angst.
The best thing about this was the title, IMO.Amazon Editorial Review:Fourteen-year-old Georgia Nicolson is back in British author Louise Rennison's irreverent, laugh-out-loud sequel to the Michael L.
Printz Honor Book Angus, Thongs, and Full-Frontal Snogging.
Written in diary form, these truly hilarious books chronicle the often minute-by-minute, very dramatic, and significant flip-flops of a teenager's psyche.7:18 p.m.My eyes are all swollen up like mice eyes from crying.
It's not small at the best of times, but now it looks like I've got three cheeks.
It's OK, I'm Wearing Really Big Knickers was another barrel of laughs, but it just wasn't as good as the first book which was Marvy and double cool with knobs.
(view spoiler)[But not to worry, soon we find out that Vati had an accident with a rogue bore and is coming home!
One problem solved.But another problems comes Georgia's way in the form of SG pulling out the 'I just realised again that you're too young for me' card and telling her that his mate Dave is a laugh.
Georgia's mum's book Men are from Mars explains that boys are like elastic bands.
A few things: - Whenever I read these books I feel the urge to talk like Georgia, good thing I don't.
She gets mad at Jas over the stupidest stuff, especially whenever she wants to talk about herself or Tom.- I like Dave the Laugh a whole lot more than the Sex God. She's herself around him.
Sure, he's "The Sex God", but he doesn't have much of a personality, at least when he's around Georgia.I'm almost done with the third one now.
I only got the second, third, and fourth one, so I'll probably go to the library again soon even though I have a bunch of my own books to read.
The hilariosity and sophisticosity of Georgia is unparalleled in her second diary.
Don't read any of these books in public, you will startle unsuspecting commuters or passersby with laughter and snorts.
Some select quotes:  Dave the Laugh had left me a card at home which said, One-legged girls are a push-over.
Love Dave xxxxxx.
Nothing seems to bother her now that Vati is coming home.
She might have put his moustache 101 out of her mind but I haven't.
In fact, to remind her I have drawn a moustache on the heart she put on the calendar.
Can't wait to continue the adventures of Georgia with The Jealous Knickers!
