https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71136.The_Wonderful_O
This book was one of my favorites when I was about eight, and I read it innumerable times.
Two disreputable pirates, Black and Littlejack, arrive at the island of Ooroo.
They also have an insane hatred of the letter O.They proceed to search for the treasure, and also to ban everything that contains an O in its name: clocks, dogs, boxes, whatever.
The terrified inhabitants of the island are forced to speak an O-less language.
One of the theoretical questions which occupies their spare time is that of determining what the most important of the banned O-words is.
imagine a wrld withut the letter . a wrld withut chicken ndle sup r the mn (well...). where peple can eat ham but nt prk. it is very cmplicated, and incnsistent in its legislatin. but still pretty fun, and its a kids bk, s we can ignre the little hiccups in lgic. and, n, its nt written withut the letter , its just abut a land where that particular letter is banned; its n perec junir. but its still a fun light read, and a lt less glmy than perec can be.
I'm just asking....Was this Carl Sagan's favourite book when he was like eight?
I like The Wonderful O as much now as I did when I first read it at age 8. If you haven't come across it, imagine that George Orwell and Lewis Carroll got drunk one night and decided to collaborate on a short children's book. No description will do it justice. But to give you a taste of what you're missing, here's the song that Black and Littlejack sing as they set out on their insane quest to ban the letter 'O': I won't go down the horrible streetTo see the horrible peopleI'll gladly climb the
I like The Wonderful O as much now as I did when I first read it at age 8.
If you haven't come across it, imagine that George Orwell and Lewis Carroll got drunk one night and decided to collaborate on a short children's book.
No description will do it justice.
But to give you a taste of what you're missing, here's the song that Black and Littlejack sing as they set out on their insane quest to ban the letter 'O':
What follows is an attempt by the pirates and their collaborators (I just realized that there is a kind of French resistance thing going on here, an added dimension to talk to children about, they love anything Nazi, even if it's fighting the Nazi's and love their books to subtly deal with the topic), to rid the island of O's.
Anyway a fun children's novel that plays with language in an appealing manner to this bookish reader, and it's easier to read than anything OULIPO has ever created.
A fable for all ages that would be *wonderful* as a family read-aloud.
Beyond the crazy tongue-twisters created by taking the letters O out of our words, the language itself is brilliant...
well, of course, it's Thurber.
But the premise, and the development thereof, and the word-play, oh my.Educational, too, as deciphering the words will fix the spelling of them in the reader's mind.I want a box set of Thurber's five fables to read over and over....Key words to live by, both in the book and in our own troubled times:Hope.
(view spoiler)[Freedom.
(hide spoiler)]"...
While James Thurber might be best known for his wonderfully illustrated short stories, especially The Secret Life of Walter Mitty and Other Pieces, he penned some tales for children, and The Wonderful O is one.
Like the best children’s stories though — think The Chronicles of Narnia, The Book Thief, The Cavendish Home for Boys and Girls, and The Magic Thief — The Wonderful O will appeal to adults who still enjoy some whimsy in their lives.Just about anyone could have predicted that banning words containing the letter O on an island named Oonoo would be folly.
For a children's book, this has some great word play.
The plot of this book is basically a pirate comes to a town and bans all things that have the letter "O" in them.
Lesson: Stop censoring words.I like how Penguin is making these children's books for there Deluxe line.
I hope they make Walter Mitty into a Deluxe or his other adult stories.I will say skip the intro for this book and 13 Clocks.
They are more about themselves than the book or Thurber.
Yes this book is for children, but it's more like his stories he for for adults too.
Thurber's story telling and use of the English language is simply brilliant, and this book is a delightful read aloud.
Their leader, the man named Black, loathes the letter "O" because his mother had suffered a terrible mishap involving a porthole so he outlaws any word containing it (which allows Thurber to get away with all sorts of linguistic fun such as poor Otto Ott and Ophelia Oliver: A man named Otto Ott, when asked his name, could only stutter.
26)The islanders are flummoxed for a while as they try to rediscover the four qualities listed above - hope, love, valor and (the most important) freedom - but, when they do, they rise up under Andreus and Andrea and drive Black and his cronies from the island.It's a very short read (72 pages in my edition) but great fun, and the 8-year-old you're reading to doesn't need to understand Thurber's deeper themes to enjoy the adventure.
Review, minus the disreputable letter:I was delighted with the cadence and linguistic play in this children’s tale. It was very reminiscent with Dr. Seuss’s writing style. Yet it did address the issues with banning letters in a way that might help children understand the perils present when making things illegal just because they disturb an individual.
I won a copy of this book during a Goodreads giveaway. I am under no obligation to leave a review or rating and do so voluntarily. I am paying it forward by passing this book along to a friend or family member who I think will enjoy it too.
This is a cute and clever children's tale that I wish I had unearthed when my children were small. There it is: a review without the letter "O." Well, nearly!

A magical little fairytale, with evil pirates Black and Littlejack seeking treasure on the island of Ooroo, and systematically robbing the letter o from out of the lives of the inhabitants.
This causes all srts f prblems (especially for Ophelia Oliver, who had to withdraw from the society of men), as the lives f the ppulatin becme really difficult withut that letter.
There are undertnes f ppressin and peaceful prtest, but thankfully nrmality is restred with the aid f magic.Thurber's lve f language is apparent n every page with lng petical lists and a rhyming metre that makes it a jy t read alud.
Quirky fun. This is wonderful to read aloud to the right audience -- it's not about the story, but about what Thurber does with words and language. My kids gave it five stars. I don't love it the way I do The 13 Clocks, but the words and rhythms are really fun.
A very short tale about an island that is invaded by pirates looking for treasure. They can't find treasure so they remove everything with an "O" in it because the captain hates words with "O"s. At the end I didn't wish I had the time I spent reading back, but on the whole I was unimpressed.
A fun concept and story, but unfortunately it puts too much emphasis on word play and cleverness (which at times is very, very good) and not enough into the story itself, such that I was left feeling like "that was neat" but simultaneously unsatisfied.
This was a book that was recommended to me by my sister who thought that I would enjoy it since of its similarity to the same format of "Animal Farm" and other modern-day contemporary fable-type stories.
Furthermore I was also intrigued by the fact that the author was able to collect so many of these words and use them so creatively as his content although the reading at time was silly while unfortunately reminding me of the goofiness of other works like the "The Wonderland" series, which I am not quite a fan of.
This is such a good book. It was one of my favorites as a kid. It's so clever and exciting. I enjoyed it at least as much as an adult as I did as a kid - probably more. I recommend it for anyone who enjoys word play, pirates, and treasure.
A fun, brief reflection on the power of language and the nature of abuses on freedom of speech. Like much of Thurber's work, it's a fairy tale about English; sounds boring, isn't.
Such a cute book. I would have been all about it if I had read it as a kid.
When evil treasure-hunters are unable to find precious stones on the island of Ooroo, they start banning all the "o"s in books, then in spoken word, then all the objects with "o"s in them. They succeed, partly with the assistance of a power-hungry lawyer, but a poet and a few other traditionalists search for a way to get their wonderful O, and all that comes with it, back. This is a charming Thurber folk tale...not as perfect as Thirteen Clocks, but certainly humorous and clever.
I like how James Thurber plays with words.
He hired Marc Simont to illustrate his book.
I have a copy of the book with the illustrations by Marc Simont.
The back cover tells us that two men visit the island of ooroo on the boat Aeiu in search of jewels.
These men start taking away the freedoms of the inhabitants of Ooroo one thing at a time until there is nothing left but cnfusin and chas.
The islanders decide that there are 4 words with O that must not be lost, do you know what the 4 words are?
I got about half way through this delightful volume before I gave in and started to read it aloud to my cats.
I don't know whether they appreciated it or not but it certainly enhanced my reading experience.
If you love words and language you should love this tale of pirates(?) who are willing to subjugate an entire peaceful island civilization in search of some jewels.
If you can't express a concept in words you can't think it either.
And maybe Littlejack and Black represented totalitarian governments everywhere.
Or maybe I was overthinking the whole thing.
This bk is a wrdsmith's dream. James Thurber's 1957 story The Wonderful O, about a tyrannical pirate who bans everything on an island that contains the letter O - because his mother was once stuck in a porthole, with tragic consequences. It's a wonderful surprise that this book turns out to be about human liberty.
After a very promising beginning this book quickly devolves into tedium. The interest in wordplay that is evident in Thurber's other children's books becomes, here, unrelentlessly self-indulgent. If I'd read this first, I doubt I would have gone on to discover The 13 Clocks, his masterpiece of juvenilia.
A fantastic read!
Not as Wonderful as The Thirteen Clocks, but it's still Thurber, so it's still pretty wonderful.
published 1957
