https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19315.Happy_Times_in_Noisy_Village
I want to write for readers who can perform miracles.
Only children perform miracles when they read.
as an adult, you performed many small miracles yourself with your writing.For example, as I finished reading the last three chapters last night, you made two grouchy, fighting-like-ninja daughters declare a cease-fire when their anger turned to hilarity as I read chapter 12 The Cherry Company.
(By the way, their adult mother was laughing just as hard as they were).You never insulted your young readers, even in 1963, when children's lit still had a long way to go.One more miracle: my 7-year-old, who is notoriously hard to please, said she'd give this book a TEN out of FIVE stars.
Astrid Lindgren's Noisy Village series was one of my favourites when I was a little girl (well actually, the German language translation, where the village, the hamlet is known as Bullerbü).
Astrid Lindgren has so perfectly captured the innocent, but also astute voice of an imaginative and observant child (the voice sounds authentic and never artificial, like how an actual child should sound and not an adult author writing as a child, or more to the point, pretending to be a child).With such a glowing preamble, why then only two stars?
Frankly, it is high time for an updated English language translation of this series, and one that keeps the episodes in order of appearance and does NOT omit entire chapters, entire episodes!
Nothing will distract you from feeling sick like one of Astrid Lindstrom’s Noisy Village books.
Happy Times in Noisy Village is the sequel to fabulous The Children of Noisy Village, which I was luckily able to read on Audible.
While the sequel isn’t on Audible, the paperback version gave me the chance to enjoy Ilon Wikland’s lovely illustrations.The six children of Noisy Village — 9-year-old Lisa; her mischievous older brothers, Karl and Bill; and neighbors Anna, Britta, and Olaf — don’t live in an actual village at all, but in a grouping of three farmhouses, as was the way in Sweden long ago.
Jako dítě jsem tuhle knížku měla snad ze všech nejraději, četla jsem ji mnohokrát a vlastně jsem ji nikdy úplně neodklidila do zapomnění. I tak mě ale překvapilo, s jakým nadšením na tyto příběhy ze života bullerbynských dětí reagovalo moje vlastní (předškolní) potomstvo. Žádné princezny, draci a trpaslíci, ale zážitky normálních, trochu divočejších a rozhodně šikovných a podnikavých dětí v idylickém koutě švédského venkova, to je něco! :) Užili jsme si to úplně všichni, je to skutečně nesmrtelné dílo.
Maybe the only thing people might not like about it is that it sometimes uses the word "stupid." Interestingly, in the orignal Swedish their houses are not called Noisy Village, but Bullerbyn.
It was changed to Noisy Village for the American edition of the book.
This is the sequel to "The Children of Noisy Village" but I haven't read that because unfortunately I couldn't get a copy.
Also, this is by the author of Pippi Longstocking, so it makes me want to read that book, although I've heard it is not as great (?)
I am enjoying the historical nature of these Noisy Village books, in that, although they are fiction, they certainly tell about what it was like to be a child in Scandinavia in the first half of the 20th century.
I find I enjoy hearing about Lisa's days with her family and friends and all of the things they did together.
Lindgren is good at writing in the voice of a child, and captivating the reader to continue.
The children are thoughtful and smart and capable, and their parents let them take care of each other for entire days - and they did it very well.
I really liked this book because it seemed very old fashioned and talked about someone's life in a different culture and country
I didn't enjoy this one at all. I'm not sure if it was the translation, the fact that some of the original work was cut out of this edition, or the story wasn't meant for me.
just got catapulted back into my childhood
Lisa ist einfach so ein süßes Mädchen. <3
A cute story and easy to read aloud and keep young ones engaged for the most part. I think some of the details of the story were lost on my 6 year old, but he certainly got the overall gist of the story. I wish I could give half stars as I would rate this at 3 1/2.
Besides the old-fashioned “girl roles” and “boy roles” for things, my kids and I find this series hysterical. The little girl narrating it is a hoot. This book did not disappoint as a follow-up to book 1.
A very cute and endearing story. Perfect for a read-aloud for young children.
Леко наивна в сравнение с останалите, но за сметка на това пък зарибяваща и много, много весела — както и повечето неща на леля Астрид, светла ѝ памет...
This was a fun and lovely read. I think I was expecting more atmosphere after all the things I'd heard about this book, but it was still very enjoyable.
This was a fun, easy read by the author of Pippi Longstocking. We enjoyed the antics of the children of Noisy Village, especially because the stories were told from their point of view.
We loved it every bit as much as the first one.
3.5 starsI probably would have enjoyed this more if I'd grown up with it, but I didn't, so better late than never.
It is a lot of fun, with an amusing child's perspective and plenty of rural antics.
It reminds me a little of Adventures with Waffles (a more modern book from a similar location), but this came first.
I'd say it's aged well for being almost 70 years old as well as a translation, but as a parent I definitely get the "times have changed" feeling at times when reading about some of the things the kids did (unsupervised swimming and boating, etc.).
I had no idea there was a chapter book about Noisy Village, so we were really happy when our school librarian told us about it. There are the normal "oh my goodness, things were different back then" moments, but fewer than in most books I've read set then. Mostly it's just sweet, happy times, with the occasional child sized danger thrown in. My favorite part was when the entire school decided to play an April Fools joke on their teacher that involved them waking up 2 hours early.
Dit was de jeugd die ik wou, ik wou in zo'n huis wonen, met die kinderen spelen...
Super appropriate and enjoyed by 7-10 year olds. Cute stories about children who have parents, small adventures, and get along with their neighbors who are like extended family. I enjoyed reading this aloud more than Lindgren's Pippi Longstocking--it was more true to life and less silly, but maybe those were for children to read themselves.
Buku kedua Astrid yang kubaca setelah jatuh cinta dengan buku pertamanya. "Biasa deh kesan pertama begitu menggoda". Cerita sederhana mengalir dengan begitu mengasyikkan. Saya jadi iri, kok tidak bisa ya menulis seperti ini.
This was my favourite book when I had just learned to read, I must have read it at least twenty times. I was enchanted with the world these children lived in, I thought they had the best life ever and wished I could join them (even though my own childhood was pretty great, too!).
Jag läser sommarkursen "Astrid Lindgrens författarskap" därav alla barnböcker och Astrid Lindgrenböcker. :) Den här är förmodligen för ganska små barn. Man känner dock igen sig mycket ifrån filmerna som man såg när man var barn, vilket är roligt.
i love kids books...this is written from the perspective of a little girl named lisa, and i like how the language captures a certain childishness without being cheesy. "the chest of the wizards" makes me laugh.
I used to love this book when I was a kid. It was actually the first book I've ever read more than once.
I have had great fun reading this with my boys - 7 & 8. The language is lovely and the stories have held their attention and sparked our imaginations.
Opens with wording that indicates this book is for very small children. But it doesn't take long before it falls back into Astrid's old familiar form. Sweet and very harmless.
Loved reading this second Noisy Village book with my daughter! It's Sweden's version of Little House on the Prairie.
