https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37903770-norse-mythology
They are the original fairy tales of humanity and, given the timeless fairytale quality to Gaiman's writing, it seemed to follow that he would be the perfect writer for a book of Norse mythology.
In fact, Gaiman seems born to write (or rewrite) myths.Norse mythology is actually one I've always been less familiar with.
I know Greek, Roman and Egyptian fairly well, and some Indian as well, but my knowledge of Norse mythology kind of ends at Odin, Loki, Thor and Thor's hammer.
You feel like you're reading about millennia-old gods, but it's very accessible to today's reader.Norse Mythology is told in short stories.
Not only does he write fantastic comics, intelligent children’s stories and detailed novels about the nature of godhood (even if I didn’t personally enjoy them all), he also has adapted Norse mythology and re-written it with his modern stylish flair.
The collection ends with the most appropriate tale of them all, Ragnarok: the final destiny of the gods.
Gaiman also narrates his personal journey in the introduction; this book has been a long time coming: this topic has clearly helped to propel much of his writing, and it really is worth hearing about.Blog | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Academia
I am no longer a Neil Gaiman virgin. Being a mythology nut, I practically devoured it in one sitting. Odin Thor Frigg Tyr Loki Baldur Heimdall Idun Bragi Vidar Váli Njord Frey and Freyja Nótt
But what we do have is quite cool.My personal favorite was the story of Baldur's murder and the attempt to raise him up from Hel's domain.
Hel even agrees, graciously, to let him come back from the dead as long as not a single person on any level of the World Tree refuses to weep for the man.
but you know how these things go.We all know that LOKI is the reason we can't have nice things.
I definitely plan on reading it to my kid once she holds still long enough for it.
;-P - I wish I could have read this before I read Uncle Rick’s “Magnus Chase series” because there were all the details I wanted to know while I read those first two books.
*lol*- What’s with all those giants and other gods that want to marry Freya?!
*lol* I mean there were gods (Loki, Frey) who had a relationship with or married a giantess and they obviously were beautiful, so I don’t really get why the rest of them (even their parents) look the way they do.
*lol* (Do I really want to read this?!
Yet Norse Mythology is the stellar proof of his tremendous talent and ingenuity, because like a new Odin, he instilled breath in myths existing for thousands of years, he commanded to life frost giants, demons, dwarves, elves, Æsir and Vanir alike, and crafted a marvelous collection of stories, ideal to read them in a cold winter's night, next to a grinding fire, holding a cup of warm content, while your mind travels in wild landscapes and flies in the form of a raven, spying the creation of the world and its destruction, only to be reborn again.
Neil Gaiman did a great job in adapting the source into a collection of short stories with his own words that made it enjoyable to read, especially for beginner to the myth but for me who’s been fed with this myth for almost 20 years, I wish there’s something new to be found here.
Picture: An example of the kind of battle you’ll find in Ragnarok.I find Neil’s retelling enjoyable to read but I do have two main problems with it.-First, as I mentioned before, for those of you who’ve known about this myth already, you won’t find anything new here, this is an EXACT retelling that it almost feel like a copy and paste to me.
Gaimain delivers the goods here.In Norse Mythology, Gaimain retells fifteen Norse myths, from the creation of the Aesir to Ragnarok, the twilight of the gods, making them accessible to the modern reader.All of the Norse gods you're familiar with from pop culture, namely Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder, and Heimdall, are here, as well as a slew of others like Vidar, Kvasir, and Hod. I was tangentially aware of some of what transpired, like Loki giving birth to a six-legged horse and Odin hanging from Yggdrasil, the world tree, for nine days and nights before gaining his wisdom, but a lot of it was new to me.
Hammer of the gods!A book written by NEIL GAIMAN about NORSE MYTHOLOGY was a book I was going to read.
Mr. Gaiman might as well have mentioned me in the dedication page “… and of course Lyn must read this.”And I was going to like it.
I, of course, revisited Deities & Demigods: Cyclopedia of Gods and Heroes from Myth and Legend and refreshed my memory of these badass northerners.And like Norman Mailer did with Egyptian mythology in Ancient Evenings, and like Kevin Hearne is doing with the Celtic gods in his Iron Druid books, so too does Gaiman give life and breath to ancient myth.
First off the cover of this book is amaze balls! I just freaking love it! ❤ Many gods and goddesses are named in Norse mythology. You will meet quite a few of them in these pages. Most of the stories we have, however, concern two gods, Odin and his son Thor, and Odin's blood brother, a giant's son called Loki, who lives with the Aesir in Asgard. I have always wanted to read a good book on Norse Mythology and I think Neil Gaiman did a great job explaining some things before the stories. The diffe
I just freaking love it!
Most of the stories we have, however, concern two gods, Odin and his son Thor, and Odin's blood brother, a giant's son called Loki, who lives with the Aesir in Asgard.
I have always wanted to read a good book on Norse Mythology and I think Neil Gaiman did a great job explaining some things before the stories.
I just loved it.
This book isn't very long at all and the stories are short but I think they were still great.
I think that anyone that loves the gods will love or like this book.
"Had Ragnarok happened yet? Was it still to happen?I did not know then.I am not certain now." *Disclaimer--Offensive comments regarding which country has the “best and most diverse mythology in the world” (yes, there were people actually writing about and fighting over that (!) or comments regarding religion in general will be immediately deleted and flagged. There’s YouTube and Facebook if some want to engage in such nonsense as fighting over thin air….*Norse myths (aka Odin,Loki,Thor,Freya,th

Featuring such characters as Odin, Thor and Loki along with a host of other lesser known gods and characters.
What really added to my enjoyment was that I had read the Poetic Edda before this, so I had an inclination as to which myths would get the Gaiman treatment.
Gaiman starts the book by saying that Norse myths are his favourites, and this shows with the level of care he gives the source material whilst adding his own spin to the tales.
I already want to reread this, it was that good and it’s short enough to be read in a couple of days.
**Spoiler Free Review**  There is no glory without danger Before beginning the review, I clear out that I read this book as a fictional work not as the work which I believe can be/is true.
I am telling you because this book was getting little serious about narrating these myths.
I liked reading his myths too.
He was just fine.After reading this book, I wouldn't recommend this book to children.
Believe me this book is totally fine for them.
But now I think that there is a great joy in reading myths as a part of books' plot.
Highly recommended for those who love reading original myths.

Igual es un poco loco darle 5 ESTRELLAZAS a este libro pero es que lo he disfrutado DEMASIADO.Este volumen es una manera genial de introducirse en los mitos nórdicos contados de manera super entretenida, ligera, divertida y al mismo tiempo informativa.Igual influye que amo la mitología nórdica y que amo a Gaiman, pero el caso es que ha sido una lectura de 10 para mi. ¿Dónde hay que votar para que Gaiman escriba más libros sobre leyendas y mitología?#LOKIFOREVAH
It's something I've been wanting to remedy for a while, but it's a vast subject.I've known for a while that Gaiman was working on Norse Mythology (for almost 8 years wowza!), and that many of his stories and characters take inspiration from the Norse tales.
I haven't read scores of mythology books in order to know how this holds up against other existing works, but I stayed present more for Gaiman's brilliant writing style than for the actual stories he chose to retell.Throughout the book I saw glimpses of some characters I would've liked to hear more about, such as Fenrir, Loki's wolf son.
[Originally appeared here: http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/li...]Of all the fiction in this world, I find the ones rooted in mythology the most enticing; not because there is an element of otherworldly magic in them but because somewhere deep down, a bewitching veil of truth hovers above them. The characters we read of, the prowess we fall to, the betrayals we appall at and the spells we dive in, have all a debatable root which almost like our very own  samudra manthan  of the Hindu mythology
Although he makes it clear in the beginning that this book will focus on the three towering characters of Odin, the all-father of gods, Thor, Odin’s powerful son and Loki, Odin’s shrewd, evil blood-brother (and eventual enemy), the chapters easily transcend the trio and throw open an enchanted window to the Germanic myths.
Chronicling the journey right from the beginning when nothing existed and going all the way to Ragnarok, the apocalyptic war that wiped the gods and the giants, Gaiman deploys an easy and engaging language to retell the myths that remain fraught with magic, power, bonds, guilt, murder, betrayal, repentance, revenge and redemption.
I am certain that Neil Gaiman has solidified his name as an author of fiction novels but I have only read one book from his collected works so this makes me a Gaiman novice.Like any mythic fiction, Norse Mythology is rooted from various folklore about natural phenomena symbolized as gods and supernatural creatures.
There is no other way for me to review this novel but to compare it to the original and other retellings.Although I am not well-versed in all Norse myths, I am well-aware of the crucial tales; from the creation of the world until the end, Ragnarok.
Even though mythology books held incredibly interesting myths, they were generally conveyed like research papers instead of stories.
There were a lot of myths that I had forgotten about or never retained due to the clunky writing of other mythology books.
Norse myths are incredibly violent.
I could go into dissecting the stories, but I would hate to spoil anything for someone who is just becoming interested in mythology.
Just know that this is no novel; this is a faithful retelling of ancient tales, but with style.
“Because,” said Thor, “when something goes wrong, the first thing I always think is, it is Loki’s fault. It saves a lot of time.”  This is my first comprehensive book on Norse Mythology and I was not a huge fan. Everything seems too disconnected.  The Gods actions, their reactions, their punishments all don't seem to fit. There wasn't fluidity between one legend and the next - it felt like a bunch of disjointed vignettes featuring the same characters.But, considering most of my knowledge is bas
“Because,” said Thor, “when something goes wrong, the first thing I always think is, it is Loki’s fault.
If they are anything like Greek myths, I think it could be just due to the oral traditions being scattered and warped every time they're told.I did enjoy Gaiman's style of writing.
Gaiman inserts humor through the word-choice that while likely not a literal translation, it certainly made for better listening.
Audiobook CommentsRead by the author (a definitely plus)...and reading all of those crazy names was difficult but listening to them being said was significantly better for keeping track.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Norse Mythology is a series of stories of myths of the Norse Gods.
You hear how Thor got his hammer, and then lost it for a very short period of time.
I have to admit, I have never read a book of Norse mythology so I can't say how this interpretation by Gaiman compares.
I immediately started flying through this book as it's so good, but slowed down just to make it last.I had the print version of this, because it arrived first.
Granted, this is not my favorite book of his, but a good introduction to Norse mythology.
A clear and child-friendly retelling of the Norse myths (I'm going to review this for The Spectator in the New Year, so I shan't post too many details today): mostly keeping to Snorri's Edda, with some details from the Poetic Edda thrown in. A very classic retelling, with few innovations and a standard structure - and a great introduction to the myths for readers who may not know of them outside of the Marvel universe...Here's a link to my more detailed Spectator review. http://www.spectator.co.uk/2017/02/th...
"Do you wonder where poetry come from?
Where do we get the songs we sing and the tales we tell?
Do you ever ask yourself how it is that some people can dream great, wise, beautiful dreams and pass those dreams on as poetry to the world, to be sung and retold as long as the moon will wax and wane?
Have you ever wondered why some people make beautiful songs and poems and tales, and some of us do not?It is a long story, and it does no credit to anyone: there is murder in it, and trickery, lies and
Do you ever ask yourself how it is that some people can dream great, wise, beautiful dreams and pass those dreams on as poetry to the world, to be sung and retold as long as the moon will wax and wane?
Have you ever wondered why some people make beautiful songs and poems and tales, and some of us do not?It is a long story, and it does no credit to anyone: there is murder in it, and trickery, lies and foolishness, seduction and pursuit.
This book can be read and enjoyed by anyone, from experts to the uniniated.Being obsessed with ancient and Medieval literature often means that I find myself completely uninterested in 'modern' classics.
Ιστορίες με θεούς που παρουσιάζουν πολλές αδυναμίες και είναι ιδιαίτερα σκληροί και ίσως απάνθρωποι, αλλά πάντα καλοπερασάκηδες.
Νομίζω ότι η αδυναμία του Gaiman είναι ο Λόκι.
Και δική μου (αν και δεν θα ήθελα να έχω παρτίδες μαζί του!) "Όταν κάτι πήγαινε στραβά, ο Θωρ έκανε μια σειρά από ενέργειες.
Αυτή τη φορά το πρώτο πράγμα που έκανε ήταν να αναρωτηθεί αν έφταιγε ο Λόκι.
Δεν πίστευε ότι ακόμα και ο Λόκι θα τολμούσε να κλέψει το σφυρί του.
Έτσι, έκανε το αμέσως επόμενο πράγμα που συνήθιζε όταν κάτι πήγαινε στραβά: πήγε να ζητήσει τη συμβουλή του Λόκι"
Last year, Neil Gaiman, one of Britain’s most celebrated literary glories, wrote this Norse Mythology, a blockbuster retelling of the ancient religion of the Vikings, with a Marvel superhero’s twist.While it is not always easy to wrap one’s head around Snorri’s prose, Gaiman’s book is delightful and readable, almost a children’s digest of these arcane myths of pre-Christian Scandinavia.
Gaiman’s description of Ragnarök is both sublime and sinister: indubitably the best section of the whole book.However, while Snorri Sturluson went on to tell the stories of the hero Sigurd, Gaiman restricts himself to the narratives concerning the gods.
This book is suitable for introduction of Norse Mythology.
Loki is the most interesting character on the book.
Too bad the final chapter, Ragnarok, made all the characters into generic destined-to-die-in-Ragnarok.I cannot praise this book too much.
Maybe it is not Mr. Gaiman fault, but personally I wish more stories about mortals in Norse Mythology, more stories about other gods (e.g. Heimdall is pretty powerful in Ragnarok chapter.
A big surprise for a character that only said something useful once prior of Ragnarok chapter), and more explanation of Loki's character.
I absolutely love this!
It gave me the chance to discover new myths and get familiar with characters I only knew little about.
It was funny, interesting and kinda epic (like I said in one of my updates, it made me wanna replay the greatness that is God of War!).
The writing really missed his peculiar touches, and it was disappointing and sort of sad to admit it could have easily been written by anyone who wasn't him because of how basic it sounded.
Despite this, Norse Mythology gains a very high position in the reading chart of my heart and I would be thrilled to read more.
ACTUAL RATINGS 4.5/5
Maybe because when I was younger, I couldn't appreciate how dense and complex Norse myths were: with the Greeks and the Egyptians, it's very easy to tell the good guys from the bad guys, but the Norse seemed to have a more flexible view of such things… What little I knew, I had gathered from movies about Vikings: I have a soft spot for those…"Norse Mythology" is divided into short stories, which gave me the lovely feeling of curling up for story-time.
You get to learn all about Norse mythology, you will find Loki who is both a hero and a villain at the same time, Thor who is both brave, smart, dumb and weak in different stories, Odin who will lie and cheat to get what he wants.
It is really a fun light read, but the only reason ill give 4 stars to this book instead of 5 is that i think this book could have been released by anybody , it is just a collection of ancient nordic mythology, well edited but i dont think the author actually contributed that much.
This was pure delight! I am constantly in awe of Neil Gaiman. Is there anything he can't write?!
