https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251971.Twin_of_Fire
If I buy something in a shop and am not happy with it, I can return for a refund - usually!
Granted it is usually and item of clothing and would not have worn it.
But with a book, you read it and "use" it so can you really justify returning for a refund if you are not happy.
I have the second in the series and it sounded good but wanted to read them in order so, therefore, one-clicked this book.
did not like either main character and now I am put off reading the second one in the series.
If you're in the mood for a lighter, fluffier read that will still keep you engaged I do recommend the twins series.Honestly I didn't expect to enjoy this one since I figured I knew everything from the first book (they take place simultaneously in the same town and many of the events are shared).
Lee ended up being TOTALLY different from what I expected him to be when I saw him as Houston's intended in the first book.
He ended up being a really hot hero and not the rigid, buttoned up milksop I assumed he was.
I can tolerate the female lead (not the heroine!) doing a couple of stupid things, but Blair does one stupid moronic thing after another!
I guess I should say Blair talks, but Houston just spaces off while she's talking.
Through all this, Lee is trying any number of assinine ways to lure Blair away from her dimwitted fiance (very convoluted ain't it?).
So, basically this is the 2 books - Ice has a stupid, moronic man with a wonderful woman he doesn't deserve.
Fire has a wonderful man with a stupid, moronic woman who doesn't deserve him.
Too bad Jude couldn't put the stupid morons together & given us a wonderful couple!
I am going to write the same thing for the Taggart and Montgomery series of Jude Deveraux.
And second, and more importantly, I devoured them all!
By the time we got home, I had already called the library and asked them to reserve all of the Taggart and Montgomery series books they had!
I devoured them all and loved them?
Here's the funny thing - I have never read any more Deveraux since that time (not even the last Taggart book or the last two Montgomery books).
This is one of my favorite romances by Jude Deveraux. In it, twin Blair, a female doctor, falls in love with her sister's fiancee after masquerading as Houston. Hijinxs ensue and Blair finds herself torn between honor and loving a compassionate man. There's a lot more here than just fluffy romance. This is an honest to goodness take on how hard it was for a woman to practice medicine during this time period. A must read! My Rating: 5+ stars

Second in the Taggert as well as in the Twin series. It provides Blair's perspective on events in  Twin of Ice  in 1892 in Chandler, Colorado.My TakeI had wondered what Deveraux could possibly say that wouldn't be just too repetitive and I was surprised. It almost felt like a different story as it focused so much on Blair and Lee. All kinds of stuff we learn about Lee that I would NEVER have expected! We learn some interesting things about their dad as well.An interesting lesson in paying attent
Most of the story focuses strictly on Lee and Blair with very little interaction with the characters we met in Twin of Ice. What's the deal with the mother?
And now Blair is being forced to marry Dr. Lee Westfield.
Nothing and no one will force Blair to give up her dream.Nor will she be forced into marrying Lee!
That is, until Blair's own fiancé arrives in town and Lee has no compunction as to how dirty he'll play to win her.The CharactersBlair Chandler is Houston's twin, but her opposite in temperament and patience.
Nina is his impetuous sister.Kane Taggert is the man who usurped Lee's place with Houston.
1892 - Blair (twin to Houston), beautiful, adventurous, passionate, pulled to being a doctor, unhapp
But no, Blair is super smart and caring, so there's no reason to listening to what other people want: she'll just deliver what she feels is needed!She also was super smart but kept getting herself in trouble, from sleeping with her sister's fiance so he wouldn't find her reluctant and break off the engagement, to willingly following men who wanted to kidnap her; all she could think of was that she was a doctor and that anyone who came after her, needed her medical abilities.
2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: 30. Un libro con personajes que son gemelosTwo twin sisters confront, each in their own way, a world dominated by men in the late nineteenth century in Chandler, Colorado.In the first book of the series, Blair, the stubborn and rebellious twin, decides to study medicine facing the intolerance of the society of the time. When she returns home to attend her sister's wedding, all hell will break loose after a night of passion with her sister's fiance ...Jude Deverau
2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: 30.
Un libro con personajes que son gemelosTwo twin sisters confront, each in their own way, a world dominated by men in the late nineteenth century in Chandler, Colorado.In the first book of the series, Blair, the stubborn and rebellious twin, decides to study medicine facing the intolerance of the society of the time.
Cuando vuelve a casa para asistir a la boda de su hermana, se armará la gorda después de una noche de pasión con el prometido de su hermana...Jude Deveraux nunca para de sorprenderme.
whether you read this one first or Twin of Ice..Jude Deveraux never ceases to amaze.
Blair Chandler is the outspoken, feminist twin..not to mention a newly made doctor in the mid-1800s...a big no-no by anyones standard.
Then there's Leander Westfield, the very arrogant, very determined and ambitious town doctor and secret miner activist.
These two just ignite fire when they're around each other...see Lee was suppose to marry Blair's twin sister Houston, but a night of fate and twin deviousness left Lee tangled in the sheets with the wrong twin...and now Blair who is engaged to another man must marry Lee. But, being the strong-headed woman she is doesn't make it very easy for Lee and makes him work for what he wants...and be wants Blair...badly.
Read both books in the series Twin of Ice first then Fire second, not quite sure which should be read first.When both books line up together Twin of Ice gets the edge (that is from my perspective).
Blair is a bit too headstrong she does not think things through for an educated woman.
Nothing is wrong with a feisty heroin who takes chances, but she needed to just relax and allow some things to slide.
She is not as weak willed as perceived.Long and short both books are good for fun reading, and one does not miss anything by reading only one of them.
I loved this book, I am starting to read Jude Deveraux novels and she is a great writer, I loved Blair's character very much, she is opinionated, smart, and knws what she wanted, her sister Houston was too stiff but I guess that's why she is called the twin of ice. But overall I loved it.
Book is okay, exciting in the beginning, but after the couple got married, got kinda of boring..
J'ai bien aimé avoir l'histoire du point de vue de l'autre jumelle. Car, dans le premier tome, je préférais Ariane et n'aimait pas beaucoup Doriane. Et dans ce tome-ci c'est l'inverse !
Simple yet very lovely.
I enjoyed this book. I also liked that I knew the parallel story of Houston that was going on at the same time-- interesting concept.
Copied from my review of Twin of Ice.On another note, depending on which website and list you look at, it differs as to which book in the set you're to read first.
I refuse right now to read Twin Of Fire because I found the twin Blair and her eventual husband Leeander both annoying characters.
Seeing as I found both characters annoying in this book, there is no reason to read their love story, which I've already read mind you from the other twins point of view, from their point of view.
If anything, I'd rather read a book about Uncle Rafe Taggart's eventual hopefully romance.
O noivado então é desfeito e Kane, um homem rude, e até mesmo grosseirão mais rico como Creso põe seu olhos sobre Houston, julgando-a ideal para decorar e servir de decoração em sua casa.
Nascera pobre e enriquecera de forma legal e achava que podia comprar tudo e tinha uma necessidade de se vingar do dono das minas da cidade de Chandler.
Mas o que ele não sabia que Houston, que sempre era uma garota obediente poderia lhe ensinar que nem tudo se comprava e que dinheiro comprava muitas coisas, menos a honradez e amor de uma mulher.Gostei pela rapidez que a leitura fluía, pela trama bastante interessante e pelos personagens secundários, além dos casal central.
Thus, when I read Twin of Fire, I kept trying to match up the timelines for the two novels.
(hide spoiler)] I know these are plot points from a different novel, but they're two closely connected novels, so I went into Twin of Fire expecting the timelines of the two novels to sync up; when they didn't, I kept trying to figure them out and getting frustrated.
If you're going to read both of the Chandler twins' stories, don't expect them to match up much once you get about two-thirds of the way through (view spoiler)[-- that is, once you get past the wedding (hide spoiler)].
Identical twin sisters switch places and things start to happen.
This book is Blair's story.
She has issues with the role that men expect her to play.
She hates the typical role for women in the 1890s.
Her sister, however, has fallen in love with Kane Taggart.
Her sister, Houston, talks Blair into trading places with her one night when Houston made a date with Kane and she was already obligated to go to a party with Lee. Blair agrees and Lee unaware of the switch attempts a seduction of Houston the "ice princess".
Getting ready to read Houston and Kane's story now.
After reading the Twin of Ice (I know, I just randomly select novels and take the series for granted--a bad habit), I have gotten too curious about what happened to the other twin, Blair.
I also love the fact that Blair was a strong and intelligent woman who knew what she wanted and got them.
The chemistry sizzled so greatly, you can't wait for them to finally realize that they're meant for each other.WHAT I HATE ABOUT THE BOOKAlthough more finely milled than all of her other books, this novel still carried a few confusing thoughts and disconcerting intricacies that distracted me.All in all, I love this book.
Twin of Fire and Twin of Ice are the stories of the Chandler sisters, Blair and Houston.
In Blair's novel, she returns to Chandler after completing medical school to be at Houston's wedding.
Houston is all set to marry Leander Westfield, but when she gets the opportunity to see Kane Taggert's house, she convinces Blair to switch places and Blair gets very friendly with Leander.
When Lee finds out about the switch he decides to marry Blair instead of Houston.
What follows is a funny tale is how Lee sets out to win Blair's heart all while she is falling in love with him and feeling guilty for ruining Houston's life.
At first I thought "Twin of Fire" is just like "Twin of Ice" in a different point of view.
While this is apparently true, I also thought that the story will lack its uniqueness from "Twin of Ice"; thus, nothing new or interesting will come out of it.
It definitely has a unique story that only revolves around the main characters Blair and Leander and of course their adventure together, making me quite amazed with how Ms. Jude Deveraux perfectly executed it.
Again, the story made me want to experience the life in this era.
Maybe with an exception to experience the life in the coal mines.
En este libro le damos seguimiento a la familia Taggert.
En este libro a su vez le damos continuidad a la familia Montgomery en Colorado que leímos en Deseos.
En este encontramos a Blair Chandler, una mujer que quiere llegar a ser doctor.
Ella está comprometida en matrimonio y regresa a Colorado a visitar a su familia y especialmente a su hermana gemela, Houston, quien está por casarse con Leander Weastfield.Como tema paralelo leemos un poco de los excesos en los campos mineros.Y a los Taggert, los vemos en el siguiente libro y ahí encontramos cómo unirlos a este par que no cargan los apellidos.
Blair can be a bit stupid at times but Leander is just too perfect.
But the series timeline is whacked.
In Twin of Ice, Houston and Kane spend around 3 days atop a mountain for their honeymoon but in Twin of Fire, Kane comes back the second day to help Lee find Blair!!!
All in all, it is another great series that didn't disappoint me.June 5-6 2016I don't know who I was when I first read this book but I definitely enjoyed this book.
Lee was a great hero and even though Blair was a bit annoying, they had a connection that made me enjoy their interactions.
Twin of fire was the very first romance novel I've read during my freshmen year.
Ever since I've read this book, I began obsessing over historical romance novels.I never expected I'd be into these things.
I get bored of reading, skip a lot of paragraphs and never bother to re-read it again.
PLUS the book covers are most unappealing to me.In the Twin of Fire, I fell in love with Blair then and there.
She's a lot more like myself; I kind of have a rebellious streak in my blood.
I never expected its twist of story.
The second book in the Chandler series by Jude Deveraux.
Set in the American West in the 1890s, this book focuses on Houston's twin sister, Blair.
Houston was the heroine from the first book Twin of Ice. Also Dr. Leander Westfield, who was the fiance of Houston.
Blair has been studying to be a doctor back east.
Blair has a love-hate relationship with Dr Lee Westfield and after being caught in a compromising situation, Blair is forced to marry him.Blair wasn't a particularly likable character but Lee was alright.
Both books have an overlapping storyline.
It was a good story, though.
This story is really interesting.
I like the love-hate relationship of the main characters at the beginning, how Leander makes a fool of himself in pursuing Blair and his tricky way of winning her heart.
I also love the spirit of Blair, her strength and her ability to face trials.
There's also that naive part of her that sometimes put her to troubles.The story is really enjoyable I cannot stop myself from smiling in some scene.
I particularly like the part where Lee guard the window of Blair's room to prevent her from running away because she tried to climb out of the window through a tree.
engaging story of an independent woman who dared go against what was acceptable for women of the time. Strong headed, and determined to be in the mix of everything that goes on in her or her families life. A trip home finds her losing her fiancé but gaining another who was engaged to her twin sister when the sister play a switch of roles. She gets herself involved in some dangerous situations because of her need to be involved, help and protect.
