https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/729924.Aion
Jung wrote this book while working on another book: Mysterium Coniuntionis.
Something made him start Aion, I think he realized that Christ represented the Archetype of the Self, and the age of Pisces (the fishes) began with Christ, which in turn was symbolized by a fish.
So synchronistic that he started looking for the fish symbol in Pagan, Christian, Gnostic, and alchemy books and manuscripts.
This was a late work by Jung and I think he realized how important was the archetype of the Self.
I think he wrote an important paper titled "on synchronicity" for an Eranos lecture while working on Aion.
Jung not only juxtaposes these different theories in a way not to overly criticize any of them (seeing the logic behind religions obviously makes him highly objective, even though he often includes good subjective remarks), but also informs the western reader about the world he lives in - what ideological backgrounds are there in the western world, that still emanate in one way or another in western ways of thinking, in its social narrative.What I found most interesting is the relatively simple basis for this book - uncovering the "Self" through our Shadow and Anima/Animus.
Wow, tough read but well worth the effort. Jung demonstrates his mastery of complex material in describing his "Researches Into the Phenomenology of the Self." I don't pretend to understand much of his references to a wide swath of literature in describing the symbolism of the Self, but I did come away with a deeper understanding. This info will be invaluable as I progress in further studies of depth psychology. In particular, I'd like to reference this material in further research involving alchemy.
well i can see these little rainbows exploding, my eyes must be a gun that can shoot those things, it doesn't hurt, and there's probably a high-score.RADAR GIRLS IN BLUE SERGE SUITS (stutters)-----------------------------------------------in a a hidden office block in dark rooms that smell of new envelope gluea a dark vast office that smells of new carpets lit by green radar will o' the wisps"points for thinking a tiger is a kitten.
and now I have to write a report because he mentioned high scores."-I think he should get a blue sunset"he's getting a a noisy noise floor for breakfast"-yay!
Ele não é muito recomendável para quem está iniciando os estudos em Jung (com exceção dos cap.
1-4) e para quem não tem clareza do método comparativo, pois ele irá utilizar de maneira massiva.
Desta forma, ele apresenta desde Cristo, passando pelo símbolo do peixe sob diversas visões, até chegar aos símbolos gnósticos do si-mesmo.
Não é uma leitura fácil, principalmente pelos paralelos tão fora de nossa realidade, mas é um livro fantástico que tenta demonstrar de maneira séria e racional, a existência de algo que é tão infinito que todos compartilhamos, o si-mesmo.
A lot of useful ideas in here. Jung connects the western notion of the self with its religious background and symbolism. Showing parallels between the psychological realities of the self as we now know them and the religious symbolism for these realities in the past. His goal is to find ways for us to bridge our awareness to aspects of the unconscious self. For when we become totally unaware of these regions we tend to project them on to other people around us. This can then lead us to situations of mass-psychosis.
When I picked up this book, I thought it would be an analysis of religious symbolism as a basis for better understanding the Jungian archetype of the self.
He also seems to be a strong advocate for dogmatic religion, and believes that without it, people can’t know their whole selves, with which I disagree.As someone who has never read Jung, nor opened a bible, this was the wrong book for me.
I felt compelled to finish it in a stubborn attempt to get something out of it, but if I ever revisit Jung, I will make a much more careful and deliberate choice.
Which would make it God's unconscious, and that fits even more cleanly into the "in his own image" bit.The alchemy bit lost me.
He defends his esoterica right off the bat, and in so doing summarizes one of the fundamental modern problems of psychology (in my ever humble): Therefore, in describing the living processes of the psyche, I deliberately and consciously give preference to a dramatic, mythological way of thinking and speaking, because this is not only more expressive but also more exact than an abstract scientific terminology, which is wont to toy with the notion that its theoretic formulations may one fine day be resolved into algebraic equations.
Christ is only one instance of this archetype, but Jung argues that it was the evolution of Christ's image through Christianity that has led us to our present materialism and spiritual drought, at least where Western thought is involved.
He then continues with the Fish Symbolism and traces it through Pagan, Gnostic, Catholic, and Alchemical lenses.
In Gnosticism, Christ literally embodied this dualistic nature, which was later suppressed by the Catholic interpretation of Christ and God. Gnosticism and Alchemy are in turn, early attempts at man trying to understand the self, or to put it simply, early psychology.
Have you ever decided to read a book that is a real challenge?
This book is quite a challenge because it is not a self help or interesting story book.
This is an interesting historical/religious commentary about humanity adjusting to everyday challenges, and the subject has very few example stories that the reader can relate to.
The first three chapters use fairly standard psychological terminology.
This is an adaptation device to use the contents of the collective unconscious.
The restof the book has many references to ancient religious beliefs , astrological applications , and, most of all, fish symbolism.
However, with Aion I frequently found myself befuddled and confused and simply accepting the fact that I wasn't going to be able to keep so many pertinent details in my head at once.Even though Aion (Volume 9 Part II) is technically the immediate followup to Archetypes of the Collective Unconscious (Volume 9 Part I), it is probably more appropriately read AFTER Psychology and Alchemy (Volume 12)The first five chapters of Aion are brilliant and a perfect compliment to Archetypes.
A deeper working knowledge of alchemical concepts as well as Gnostic/Christian symbolism would serve someone attempting to pick up Aion.
But since man knows himself only as an ego, and the self, as a totality, is indescribable and indistinguishable from the God-image, self-realization -- to put it into religious terms -- amount to God's incarnation""And because individuation is an heroic and often tragic task, the most difficult of all, it involves suffering, a passion of the ego: the ordinary, empirical man we once were is burdened with the fate of losing himself in a greater dimension and being robbed of his fancied freedom of will.
This was an incredible book.
Here, Jung discusses the phenomenology of the Self.
It answered so many questions about inner experiences and the observed phenomena around.
(Need to consult the bibliography at some other time in life).
The crucial points are this - the human Self can be understood in the image of Jesus, enantiodromia of opposites make a whole/complete man.
A person who understands and sees darkness inside himself can now take moral decisions to improve his inner, spiritual self.
In this way, he will be able to walk through life with courage and firm foundations.
I got absolutely terrified and overwhelmed reading the book. Jung has a distinct intellect of shattering your redundant, limited and biased cognitive structures; then again expand and transform them into a more comprehensive or holistic understanding of reality as it is beneath the established social structures. Someone, has said, Reading Aion creates such an intense emotional arousal and tension that it's like Listening to Death Metal. But I've found it performing an act of Exorcism on my whole being and then setting myself free from the blocks of cultural conditioning.
Intriguing reflections on the phenomenology of the self and its relation to religious symbolism surrounding lengthy passages, that I mostly skipped, of esoteric and wildly speculative readings of alchemical Christian, Gnostic, Jewish, and Eastern texts and images. Far out.
Superb read. This titan has thoughts and answers to them that one can only hope to dream up in our own minds. Let him grace your own mind with his intelligence.
Edifying at moments, though found myself a bit critical of the depth of alchemical and christian mysticism discussed and compared to.
Especially interesting / challenging for people thinking of Jung as the avatar or prophet of the new age or westernized Eastern philosophy is the chapter entitled "The Psychology of Christian Alchemical Symbolism." Also, the depths of his connection to Christianity is clear, although there too his personal theories drive and distort his understanding of the tradition.
I'd love to hate this book, but occasionally poking out of the mess are some real insights and provocative analysis.I would not read this book as a starting approach to Jung, nor is it for the general interest psychology student or reader.
But for people interested in the intersection of religion and psychology it's a flawed but sometimes fascinating effort.
For my favorite collection of the works by C.
G.Jung, I say five stars.
I am the most interested in his ideas of the mortal's God-image, restoration, and shadow.
As a result of this 'anamnesis,' the original state of in oneness with the God-image is restored.
It brings about an integration, a bridging of the split in the personality caused by the instincts striving apart in different and mutually contradictory directions (in the shadow).
Aion is a continuation of Jung's work in psychology. He explores the role of symbols in archetypes and how symbols are used to creation connection with archetypes, as well as exploring different aspects of a person's sense of self. I found the book to be useful for understanding Jung's contribution to psychology and why his work has continued to be significant. If you're interested in psychology or just want to understand Jung, this is a good book to pick up.
Buku ini memberi manfaat pada manusia modern dan manusia yang sudah bergantung pada teknologi social network dalam berusaha mengenal diri sendiri..berusaha menemukan perkembangan diri meskipun melalui rasa sakit dan beban psikis namun perkembangan kepribadian akan terpenuhi melalui hal-hal tersebut.
This is definitely not the book to start with if you are unfamiliar with Jung. Appearing as the second part of the two-book Volume 9 of the Collected Works of C.G. Jung, Aion should be saved for close to the end of one's studies along with the more formidably titled Mysterium Coniunctionis.I did not know this, reading this volume before being able to fully appreciate it.
A work of astounding depth, complexity, and pertinence to our lives. Yes, I'm a Jungian who studied with the old guard in Zurich. Trust me, the book is pure gold. After 35 years working in the field of Jungian analysis, I still turn to the book for help in understanding my role as an analyst. I would recommend reading Aion with Edinger's Aion Lectures, also reviewed here.
O lucrare dificil de înțeles care conține descrierea influentelor imaginii lui Cristos asupra simbolisticii Sinelui. Lucrarea tratează simbolistica alchimică, gnostica si mistica in detalii, arătând cat de mult timp a acordat Jung studiului acestor domenii. Cu siguranța nu este o carte pentru începători in studiul lui Jung.
Amazing! One of those books you probably will want to read again and again to find more intense information. I will never look at Jesus Christ the same way again, let alone the Psyche of mankind. I feel much more connected to our species as a result of reading this book. I totally recommend it to those who have read other books by Jung and want to see his very mature work.
A masterpiece. This work is perhaps Jung's most significant to anyone with an interest in the mystical. The analysis of Jesus is particularly fascinating.
a must read for those who love Jung
this book top :)
I really Liked Aion - it was one of my favorite Jung Books to date - and one that I'll likely read again.
Actually, one of the more readable and interesting tomes.
