https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30932.The_Sword_of_Honour_Trilogy
This can be a distinction without a difference if the "sin" is to be something (a Jew, a homosexual, even a divorcee) rather than to do something, Non-Christian charity requires, however, that one forgive Waugh precisely because it was his innate - as well as his adopted - vices that made him a king of comedy and of tragedy for almost three decades.Hitchens lays the ground for this conclusion by pointing out that Guy Crouchback, the protagonist of the trilogy, has to be taken as a stand-in for Waugh himself, since he's given the same day, month and year of birth as was the author's.
Men at Arms - Part 1 of Sword of HonourWhat fun - a bit like a cross between MASH, PG Wodehouse and Brideshead!An upper class British Catholic divorcé leaves his home in Italy at the start of WW2 to try to join the army, and eventually succeeds.The story is populated by quirky characters and strange coincidences, with glimpses of poignancy.
Through Guy Crouchback, the detached observer and would-be knight, who mistakenly believes his private honour will be satisfied by war, Evelyn Waugh perfectly captures the bureaucracy, pettiness, absurdity, humour, and confusion of war.
Before embarking on Sword of Honour, I would never have believed that Evelyn Waugh could have written two masterpieces.
Brideshead Revisited and Sword of Honour.
The Penguin Classics version of "Sword of Honour", contains numerous informative and interesting footnotes and an introduction by Angus Calder, each time Waugh changed the text there is also a note.
But this book (I will also refer to it in the singular, despite it being a trilogy, for simplicity’s sake) is not early, funny Waugh, but deep, dark Catholic Waugh, so the laughs are gone now, replaced by a tedious and desperate kind of spirituality.The black heart of it all might come from its bent Catholicism.
Here are a few of them: Apthorpe, the friend Guy poisons in hospital, is the best part of the (first) book, although he is so defective, stupid and probably insane that I am not sure why Waugh bothered with him.
Despite Guy Crouchback's (thinly veiled fictional version of Evelyn Waugh) best efforts to "do his part" to he is destined to always be on the periphery of the war.
Like millions of other Americans I've seen the television mini-series of Brideshead Revisited, but this is the first time I've read any of his work.
Though I know that others have expressed a distaste for Waugh's satire and prose I found myself likely it almost instantly.
I don't know if the upper class and middle class of England were really like this, but I had a great time nevertheless.
The dystopian and satirical world of and unprepared England World War IIIf this were just a review of the ineffective, jaundiced, sarcastic snobbish, effete England portrayed by Evelyn Waugh throughout the Sword of Honor Trilogy, this would be a 4 star review.
It is depressing when it is not negative when it seems to fail to see any part of England before, during or after World War II as a home to honest, good hearted or even competent people.
His return to an England he hardly knows is so that he can become a soldier in the cause of England’s honor in World War II.
There was a fine (and now lost) TV version in the 60s, with Edward Woodward as Crouchback, and host of character actors, (including Ronald Fraser as Apthorpe) playing the supporting parts, and an all-too-brief 2001 version for TV with Daniel craig as Crouchback.
The nuances, the subtleties, the acute observations of English social niceties and the bitterness that unites and divides us are almost impossible to portray on screen.
He bestrides the novel almost as a catalyst for all the other characters to react to.
There is real warmth - the great recurring shape of Colonel 'Jumbo' Trotter lumbers through the novel, popping up now and again like a lost but welcome friend.
This is Evelyn Waugh's final edited version of the Sword of Honour trilogy. If you're interested in reading the trilogy, you really should read this version, as the book is really one long, continuous story with the same characters throughout, and some apparently tedious passages have been edited out. Highly recommended by me as well.
An incredible achievement as a work of art. What a cast of characters and story, across the Second World War, from the outbreak to the end.
An interesting take on the British experience of World War Two and also of Anglo Catholicism by the author of Brideshead Revisited. Recommended to me by one of my high school teachers who had lived the same sort of muddled war time experience. A good parallel to Anthony Powell's account of the war in the volumes of his Dance to the Music of Time sequence that cover the war.
Waugh's Final WordsEssentially, this is Waugh's swansong: three novels about the adventures of his quasi-autobiographical hero, Guy Crouchback, in the Second World War, gathered together by him and edited into a single volume at the end of his life.
For although this clearly falls into the general category of army comedies—a frustrating saga of administrative snafus and occasional action—it also comes over as a convincing account of how things must have felt as Britain was muddling through that deceptive period of the "phony war" before complacency got shattered at Dunkirk.Waugh's protagonist, Guy Crouchback, is 36 when this first novel opens.
War, as portrayed here, amounts to maddeningly long stretches of tedium (for the characters: Waugh makes them hilarious for the reader) relieved by flurries of action that seem to achieve no useful purpose.The only extended episode of actual military activity that Waugh chooses to dramatise is the Allies' unsuccessful defence of Crete.
Sword of Honour made me understand, as no other novel about war has, the frustration of not being needed when one is physically and psychologically prepared to fight; of being ready to put one's life on the line, but instead seeing one's will to live whittled away by the absurdities and boredom of military routine.This isn't a light, frothy read, but nor is it bleak - there's far too much humour for that.
Even in his non-fiction he kept a greater emotional distance than he does here.The books have different themes, which together make the story of Guy Crouchback's war.
There are lots of wonderful comic characters and incidents, so although Guy is bored or confused much of the time, the reader is not.Officers and Gentlemen is more of a classic war story and features http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_o..., which Waugh himself took part in.
Guy has lost his 'grand cause' but tries to make personal acts of faith, following his father's advice.
Evelyn Waugh was rather less content with the post-war world than Guy.
He's a lot like Charles Ryder in Brideshead, who finds true meaning only on the last page of the novel.
Come to think of it, at the end of  Brideshead, Charles has joined the British Army, and is about to serve in World War 2, so Sword of Honour is a kind of sequel, in that sense.
Not, of course, in the sense of the spiritual journey--which is complete for Charles, but just beginning for Guy.The ending is problematic in a good way, in the sense that Waugh shows how the victory of the Allies in World War II depended making a pact with evil--Stalinist Russia.
Sword of Honour follows Guy Crouchback, the scion of an ancient English aristocratic Catholic family, as he enters into the service of his King in what he sees as a crusade against the evil manifestations of modernism; Fascism and Communism.
Waugh's personal experience in the War are retold almost exactly through Guy, with the result of providing one of the most compelling accounts of modern war available today.
Characters like Apthorpe and Brigadier Ben Ritchie-Hook are what really set this novel apart in my mind.
Wherever their names appear you know something is about to go down.
Even though the novels are drenched in wit and irony, this is by no means a comedy but a rather complex drama set across a vast social, psychological, and spiritual tapestry.
I didn't really know what to make of it until the last dozen pages where, by using eight simple words, the whole thing came together in one enormous flood.
I thoroughly enjoyed this set of books. Waugh's myriad of characters keep popping up throughout the course of the story. It is alternatively comic, light, serious, and always engaging.
As England readies for the second World War, Guy sees his opportunity to be of some use.
There is something appealing about the writing and I can't quite determine what it is.[return][return]OFFICERS AND GENTLEMEN:[return]Back in England after a rather disgraceful episode abroad, Guy Crouchback is determined to make himself useful as World War II worsens.
[return][return]UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER:[return]This is the third book in the Sword of Honour Trilogy.[return][return]World War II is finally nearing end, and Guy's travails to prove his honor continue to backfire in the bloated bureaucracy of the British military.
Both wars, actually - I'd rate Sword of Honour alongside William Boyd's An Ice Cream War (and Any Human Heart, for that matter) for the sort of grown-up boys-own adventure feel of the story.
Guy Crouchback's adventures through Italy, Egypt, Crete, Dakar, Yugoslavia and the rest are gleeful, and Waugh's characters are exactly who you want to meet there.There is other stuff as well, of course; Sword of Honour is not a travelogue, but an account of the decline of chivalry, the end of the Empire and a valedictum for a certain kind of British gentleman.
I suppose I expected some of the same in this book, having read a number of reviews that all started a little something like 'despite my distate of reading about wealthy catholics', but found little in any of the three books that really propounded any catholic overtures.To be honest, I didn't love this book.
Waugh managed to go through the entire series without having Crouchback show any real deep and honest feelings about anything at all.
Unfortunately, the context in which it is presented-- inconsequential and far-flung margins of the British military involvement in World War II-- is tough slogging indeed unless the reader has the requisite background knowledge to be able to parse the constant barrage of British military acronyms and jargon, and to be able to recognize the names and significance of the numerous minor historical figures and events that are strewn throughout the plot.
For someone who was a huge World War II history junkie in high school, this was enjoyably rigorous mental exercise...
As such, this book leaves me in a rare quandary: I thought it was great, yet I can't recommend it-- unless you happen to be a fellow Waugh-loving World War II geek.
It's difficult not to get annoyed with a protagonist whose problems mostly stem from being a Catholic, and an aristocrat at that.
So the Catholic misery is a fixture of the plot.
As to the rest, the dialogue often reads like a sitcom, often farcical.
The hero's actions are often completely misinterpreted and no, it isn't all sorted out.
His whole life is shaped by other people's misinterpretations, sometimes without him even being aware that anyone is watching.
Lots of people die.
A very human book, historically fascinating and quintessentially English (even if we're not much like that any more.)
His books on Campion, Helena, and his travel writings are neither nasty, elegiac, nor funny, but show him a sensitive reporter of things seen and told.
The Sword of Honour books balance the three Waughs together.
If Waugh had never written The Sword of Honour books, a triangulation of the concerns in his other works would have predicted it.
I collect literary descriptions of people I know.
The portrait of old Crouchers is the best description of my own father I've ever come across.
This is Evelyn Waugh at his best. He describes the tragedy of war through individual human frailties. Nobody ever seems to be completely in control- capricious fate sending men and women to arbitrary deaths. And through the muddle and pathos runs Waugh's dark satirical humour we saw earlier in Scoop, his comic novel about the war in Ethiopia.Three volumes that compare well are Powell's wartime novels from A Dance to the Music of Time: The Valley of Bones, The Soldiers Art, and The Military Philosophers- very similar in style but a lot funnier (mainly thanks to Widmerpool)
i loved the scene with the moving thunderbox. probably the funniest thing i have ever read that i can remember right now :) got a little lost at the end of Men at Arms. fini!!
Selected for Summer of Women 2014. Wait, what? Really? Crap.
Book 1: Men at ArmsThis book starts off with a discussion of the localized history of a estate belonging to a wealthy English family, all of which sets the scene for the kind of historical and cultural and familial draw the role and life of the soldier has on the protagonist of this novel.
It is here that the novel almost - almost - succumbs to the cliches of the British 'Officer Class' as lampooned elsewhere.
Its a recurring motif through the trilogy.I'm still very intrigued by these novels, because Waugh's writing embodies and embellishes distasteful ideas.
Her fate is almost cruelly plotted by Waugh, and you can almost sense some kind of personal vendetta working itself out by the time she is focused upon in the third novel in the trilogy.Aside from my misgivings, this was a fascinating read, and I'm glad I took the time to savour it.
Not only Waugh’s finest work, but also one of the most accurate portrayals of military life I’ve ever read.
What prevents this from being a truly great novel is Waugh’s exhausting (and, let’s face it, vulgar) snobbery.
Waugh manages to balance the profound with the farcical pretty successfully in this long work, and the overall tone is much more mature than Brideshead Revisited.
But this is a serious novel about serious issues, and Guy’s passivity can sometimes lead to uncomfortable reading.
In particular, his impassivity in the face of a heinous war crime during the Dakar raid is problematic, to say the least.
A long, but entertaining, read.
Guy Crouchback just wants to do the honorable thing - fight the good fight in WW2.
He struggles through training and ends up in some of the backwaters of the war -Alexandria, Crete, and Yugoslavia.
There's a parade of interesting characters - some absolutely hilarious.
You wonder how the Brits and the Allies prevailed in the war after you see the military bureaucracy.Along the way, we share in his Catholic faith as he observantly assists at Mass and goes to Confession.
Near the end, he is presented with two opportunities to do the right thing.
I won't spoil it for you.A great read with some memorable characters.
