https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79428.The_Abolition_of_Man
There is nothing that really deserves respect or castigation, no right responses or ways of thinking about things: there is only opinion.Against this idea Lewis brings to bear the moral and ethical traditions of basically every culture that has ever existed.
In fact, in a long appendix at the end of the book, Lewis takes each of these ideas and gives examples of it in a myriad of different cultures throughout history.Lewis calls this group of ethical ideas "The Tao." And it is at this point that the book gets really startling.
Excellent. Read various times. Just listened to an audio version in the fall of 2015. Although I have read this book multiple times, the last time through on audio, I noticed that the last section contained layers I had not ever really understood. I listened to it again (Jan. 2016) with that in mind, and yep, definite layers. This book is deep.Listened to it again in October of 2016. And yet again in July of 2017.
I have so many quotes marked from this book that I might as well just memorize the entire thing. This book alone introduced me to the writings of C.S. Lewis, and I am forever indebted to perceptions. Virtue, as he defines it, is the ability to recognize what is true, good and beautiful. To be able to admit that something has value.Difficult in our world.How did we get to the point that recognizing the goodness or beauty in something or someone else makes us feel as though part of our own soul is being worn away? So backwards.
The edition of this I read had both The Great Divorce and The Abolition of Man. The Great Divorce is one of my all time favorite books, of any genre.
I will not try to lay out what the book is about and the premise of the book.
C.S.Lewis was/is a gift to humankind and I'd really recommend his writings not be missed.Think you disagree because you're and atheist?
After all C.S.Lewis was at one time a confirmed atheist also.Quote from,  Surprised by Joy: "A young man who wishes to remain a sound atheist cannot be too careful of his reading." - C.
After my second reading: "Can education influence morality?" asks the back cover blurb.
For a reader already concerned about the downward spiral of the quality of our education, this book will pour fuel on the fire.
The result may be men with unimaginable power, but no moral compass by which to guide their actions.
In fact, he claims that all historic cultures worldwide stand in opposition to the modern, value-less approach.Original review: This is perhaps the most challenging of Lewis's books of essays, but his thesis is clear: modern education is creating "men without chests", that is, they have brains and bowels (and other lower urges) but no heart.
How could I have done an Arts degree without reading this book?! Lewis was a genius, and everything he writes here feels indescribably relevant to the present time. I had goosebumps while reading it.So many voices call for the abandonment of all value systems except their own, wishing somehow to 'free' society from the laws that have governed it only to impose their own, more arbitrary code.Every humanities student (not to mention teacher) must read it.
"The Green Book" is Lewis's way of referring to Alex King and Martin Ketley's The Control of Language: A Critical Approach to Reading and Writing.
See Plodcast, Episode #6, where Wilson recommends reading Lewis's Discarded Image (or the condensed article in Studies in Medieval and Renaissance Literature) and Planet Narnia.Here's a helpful link for quotes and allusions in this book.
4, 11-13)2: Coleridge/waterfall/sublime/feelings6: ad example (don't just say it's bad—show what's good); see also p.
10 and the horses example11: trousered ape vs.
48)43: Tao = Natural Law44: famous primary color quote63-67: denying any absolute basis leaves only preference64: abolition of man (also p.
I can remember understanding very little of it except the famous paragraph at the end of the first chapter the first time I read it, “In a sort of ghastly simplicity we remove the organ and demand the function.
Still can't say the whole thing was wide open to me but more than before.Let me add that today I believe the single most important message in this book is the use of the word 'debunking' by Lewis.
As Christians we often guilty of being debunkers and I believe it is a way that we undermine our message even as we are giving it.
In Abolition, Lewis gives us a defense of objective value and natural law, and a warning of the consequences of doing away with or "debunking" those things.
the man-molders of the new age will be armed with the powers of an omnicompetent state and an irresistible scientific technique: we shall get at last a race of conditioners who really can cut out all posterity in what shape they please.
It is one more part of nature which they have conquered.’ (Italics added) *Lewis says that there is a set of objective values that have been shared, with minor differences, by every culture "...the traditional moralities of East and West, the Christian, the Pagan, and the Jew...".
Simply amazing.
Probably the best book by CS Lewis I've ever read.
I took particular interest in the book because of conversations with my friend Cadmus in Japan, who was of the opinion that Instinct towards preserving the species is all that drives humanity in our lives (to sum up his general position).
This book shows (and I believe proves) that such ideas, along with others that are similar or spring from it (such as that values are void and that traditional ideas must be cast aside for good) will bring about nothing but pain and, well, the "abolition" of our human selves and all that is meaningful to us as Humans.
What an amazing book.
Wow, this is hard to rate and review. 3.5 stars?This is a collection of three related, non-religious essays. Lewis observed the introduction of Progressive ideals (like moral relativism) in schools and explained the logical problems with them. He examines the ideas (there is no absolute truth, no intrinsic value, and no Natural Law) and shows the flaws in their logic.The way he tackles these philosophical ideas just proves his genius. Just watching his thought process and the beautiful writing is fascinating.
(Emphasis are my own)“Gains and Titius, while teaching him nothing about letters, have cut out of his soul, long before he is old enough to choose, the possibility of having certain experiences which thinkers of more authority than they have held to be generous, fruitful, and humane.”“They see the world around them swayed by emotional propaganda – they have learned from tradition that youth is sentimental – and they conclude that the best thing they can do is to fortify the minds of young people against emotion.
Actual Rating: 3.5
In the Abolition of Man, C.S. Lewis confronts the modern attempt to overthrow the “doctrine of objective value, the belief that certain attitudes are really true, and others really false, to the kind of thing the universe is and the kind of things we are.” As such, it is a book that should be of interest to any adherent of any traditional religion.
A dogmatic belief in objective value is necessary to the very idea of a rule which is not tyranny.”The Abolition of Man is also a book about modern education, about the ways in which educators implant assumptions of moral relativism and anti-sentimentality into the minds of pupils, thus removing the “organ” of emotion that prompts virtuous behavior.
Why does society desire to raise children with no moral compass besides their own?
Lewis tries to argue that human nature will change for the worse the more rationalist we become.
I believe that on closer examination, what worries him isn't that human nature might change in the future.
Lewis is an intelligent man, but he makes the same mistake that so many people make; he tries to fit science and theory to a preconceived truth.
He doesn't have a question, and then try to answer it.
He doesn't have a premise, and then try to disprove it.
One can only conclude that Lewis doesn't understand science, or that this is a cleverly hidden piece of religious propaganda.
I didn't factor how difficult I would find C.S. Lewis to sometimes be.
I first listened to this book as I walked.
Bad idea.
It ricocheted off my brain.
I read the words.
I listened and read together.
Finally, I watched the book/listened to audio with CSLewisDoodle on You Tube.
One thing about C.S. Lewis: his ideas are as relevant now as they were in 1944.In short, I want to give this five stars; alas, in order to love it, I feel I should get it.I certainly want to take another go at this in the future.
He writes with amazing prose and incisive clarity on modern efforts to undo or replace traditional values—modern efforts to abolish man.
It is good that the window should be transparent, because the street or garden beyond it is opaque.
To `see through’ all things is the same as not to see.I couldn't help thinking of Stanley Fish's powerful essay "Boutique Multiculturalism." A "strong multiculturalist" in Fish's piece is someone so tolerant that he attempts to honor and appreciate other cultures no matter what.
383)Fish says he's read Lewis and modeled his writing after the Oxford (and Cambridge) don's.
Her primary disagreement is his coupling of magic and science by claiming they both wanted to achieve power over nature, but by different means.
However a friend to whom I lent the book assures me that fears about science's encroachment upon basic human nature "is certainly being proved true with a vengeance."Apart from this issue, the book's primary value is its identification of a fundamental morality (he calls it the Tao) that underlies human nature, and which is axiomatic, i.e., it can’t be proven, but must simply be recognized.
This is arguably Lewis's most brilliant book, and probably his most intellectual. It furnishes more quotes than most of his others, as he argues for a universal morality. In knocking down the emerging post-modernists of the time (beginning with Nietzsche) he predicts pretty much what's happening now."Man's conquest of nature turns out to be nature's conquest of man. All her retreats turn out to be tactical withdrawals."
I have read this before and appreciated it. Reading it as a mom, the wife of a high school administrator, a homeschool parent and a perpetual student of Lewis, it was utterly profound for me this time. I think that this has become my very favorite of Lewis's philosophical reflections or social commentaries. The third reflection about science was particularly compelling.
A classic analysis of our educational and ethical decline. "We make men without chests and expect of them virtue and enterprise. We laugh at honour and are shocked to find traitors in our midst. We castrate and bid the gelding be fruitful."
An important criticism of the educational system in Britain and America; it makes a good companion piece with G. K. Chesterton's The Everlasting Man.
An excellent essay on the dangers of the word 'only.'
That term--the Tao--comes up a lot in the summary.Content: Lewis’s thesis unfolds in three parts: Part I, “Men Without Chests”; Part II, “The Way”; & Part III, “The Abolition of Man.”In Part I: Men Without Chests, Lewis spells out a growing problem he sees in the modern educational system: that modern man is attempting to create a species of “men without chests.” The “chest” here symbolizes what Lewis calls “sentiment” and what we can understand as “virtue.” Virtue is based on the values found in the Tao. Lewis wrote this book precisely because he was concerned that modern teachers/professors were churning out masses of students who lacked “just sentiments” or virtue.
I took a C.S. Lewis class in college (yes, an entire class just reading C.S. Lewis!), but never got around to reading this one until now.
Yes, he talks about universal values and other important things, but he is essentially trying to make a logical argument that eugenics will lead to the downfall of mankind.
Imagine a long car ride with a college professor while he talks you through a logical thought experiment to prove his point...
Not my favorite, but I'll probably read it again to better take it in, now that I've got the gist of it.
How did I go so long without reading this?
In many ways its a natural law primer.
Lewis does a good job showing how secular anti-natural law theories devolve into incoherence, but the book is so much more.
In it we see a glimpse--one rarely acknowledged by Lewis's evanjellyfish disciples today--of the coming global state and its scientific elite.
This book should be read in conjunction with That Hideous Strength (easily the 5th greatest novel of the 20th century; the other four were by Tolkien).I disagree with a few of his assertions, and some of the chapters didn't seem to ever end, but the book itself is excellent.
I think I only understood about 1/2 of it, but luckily it was every other sentence, so I feel like I got the gist of what he was trying to say.
It was strange to feel like the Intellectuals probably haven't changed all that much since CS Lewis was shooting holes in their arguments.
I definitely feel I've met "men without chests", and I wonder what they'd say to this...Maybe I'd give it a 5 if I could understand it better.
It will bear repeated readings, and maybe I'll change my rating then.
Neste livro, C. S. Lewis defende a existência de uma Lei Natural e discute as implicações da extinção desse conceito para as gerações futuras. Através de uma argumentação sólida, o autor afirma que a busca do Homem pela evolução através da inovação, a qual substitui a crença em valores objetivos por valores subjetivos, na verdade leva a abolição do homem. Com três capítulos e um apêndice, esta pode ser considerada obra obrigatória para aqueles que desejam conhecer o legado de Clives Staples Lewis.
Definitely not one o my favorite C.S. Lewis works. I actually realized after the fact that I had read this as part of a second edition of Mere Christianity but either way start with something a bit more fun like the Screwtape letters!
