https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156192.The_Universal_Baseball_Association_Inc_J_Henry_Waugh_Prop_
But I liked it a lot.Two personal personality quirks might account for this: 1) The main character has created an entire fantasy baseball league, and is in the process of playing out year 56.
Entirely created and maintained and imagined by J.
Years are played out, deaths are mourned, injuries happen, he creates complete lives for each player, all centered around the game of baseball.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The paper spoke blackly of bombs, births, wars, weddings, infiltrations, and social events.Reality seems to be a little bit hostile therefore the protagonist invented a sort of baseball role-playing game and throwing dice literally started dwelling in its virtuality ignoring everything around.
And while his real life keeps disintegrating he lives in his cozy virtual world:But anyway he was glad he had come tonight.
Helped him see the bigger picture, loosen up a little.
Loved the related light-handed metafictional aspects about author and characters, how Coover is to Henry as Henry is to UBA players.
Coover mimics the drying up of Henry's enthusiasm in the prose, which works in moderation but after a while weighed on my enthusiasm for the book itself, especially when it comes after a longish Ulysses-like bar scene complete with slurred imaginary baseball player speech.
Generally, despite all the love for the above, I felt like things peaked early and then fell off the table in terms of my interest as Henry lost his shit and the game became endangered.
It's a book about a man who enjoys his solitude and crates a whole world of stats and player biographies in a fake a basball league that's (real?), the players live and die,break records as it's creator losses his fucking mind.
He invets a whole league, he explains that he takes words he sees in real life and turns them into ball player names, I come up with few myself.
As someone who, as a child, invented whole basketball teams: bouncing a ball on the narrow sidewalk between two houses, becoming each carefully imagined player, each with an age, height, weight, scoring average, assists, rebounds, shooting style, tendencies; imagining a basket and a backboard where none existed against the siding, shooting each unique way, and seeing if I could make them score and make them win; well, the idea of The Universal Baseball Association doesn't sound so crazy.
The first time I heard of Abulhassan Bani Sadr, I thought, geez, he'd make a wonderful crafty left-handed relief pitcher.
Now pitching for the New York Mets, Number 23, Abulhassan Bani Saaaaaadr!
Of course, I didn't kill anybody, intentionally or otherwise, with a throw of the dice.
is magnificently imagined, as is his game of dice baseball.
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdnUi...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017Very dense and occasionally boring, but impossibly rewarding and filled with so, sooo many layers of meaning and with reflections on everything from loneliness to death, from artistic creation to control. A minor masterpiece for sure.
What shocked me, after hearing about Coover, was that the plot of the book isn't the star here, nor the characters. Rather, the charm of the book is almost entirely in the structure, which is remarkably playful, complex, and nuanced. I was expecting some sprawling Pynchonesque thing, but instead I got a fun, almost breezy, frequently comic novel touched with metafictional elements.
Henry is the inventor of an incredibly complete and complex baseball game in which practically every possible event is determined by the roll of 3 dice.
Henry plays seasons with these teams and players and not only keeps box scores for each game but also complete records and statistics for the current season and each preceding season, as well as a written commentary kept in a shelf-full of bound record books.
In order to save the game and save the world after the death of Rutherford, Henry's sense of balance has to be restored by the loss of another player, Jock Casey, who threw the deadly beanball.
Infinite Jest aside--that novel is in a league of its own starring Geena Davis, Rosie O'Donell, and Tom Hanks as the foul-mouthed ex-ballplayer with a heart of gold--this is best thing I've read all year.
On the strength of this work, I picked up a cheap copy of Pricksongs and Descants, a collection of Coover's short stories.b) It's the best baseball novel I've ever read.
But if you do, you'll quickly realize that this is one of the best books written in the last 50 years.
Probably someone who likes baseball a lot more than I do.
Henry Waugh's fantasy baseball league is imagined from the ground up, complete with its own history and a huge group of fully realized players.
I regard this as a major accomplishment for both Henry and Coover.
Part of it is of course that I don't like baseball, but that oversimplifies it.
Waugh explicitly makes clear that he doesn't go in for any of that; he doesn't actually like real baseball.
The other thing is probably that Coover, in some ways, seems like a poor man's Pynchon.
Underrated gem - it's a difficult book, especially in the second half, but it has both beauty and daring going for it. Less about baseball than about theology, and most of all it seems to me to be a parable about writing. It has some elements that I disliked - way too much nastiness for nastiness's sake - but the high points make up for it. Extremely creative. It also bears saying given the rise of fantasy sports: prescient.It's like a 4.51 for me. I'll remember it.
The strongest emotion I had during the reading of this: to sock Coover in the face.I feel strongly that any niche can successfully be exploited for metaphoric value in fiction regardless of its obscurity, so long as it is done well.
Baseball is far from obscure, but the metaphor of the game in these pages is so utterly alienating that Coover might as well be writing about bike polo.In his novel The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, Michael Chabon gives comic books as critical a role as any of the main characters.
Man, I love baseball.
It's hard to write about the literary merits of this mind-bending book, of which there are DEFINITELY many (in short, without talking about baseball, the created world becomes the real world), without talking about baseball.
And the fact that Coover created a complex board game equivalent of modern fantasy/tabletop baseball that used statistics in ways that were never discussed until Billy Beane's SABRmetric-focused appearance in "Moneyball." But the world that Coover creates is a beautiful mix of old baseball (reminding me a lot of old WP Kinsella novels, harking back to the glory days of early 1900s baseball) and experimental literature immersed in philosophical pursuits of perfection, fate, death, and, of course (because every goddamn book I read better get at this question at some point), what is the meaning of everything.
I loved this one by Coover. It's probably as aided by the fact that I also love baseball. I listen to podcasts and the radio broadcasts of my favorite team. The way Coover captures the game is pitch perfect. In fact the only quibble I have is that Coover is a Reds fan.
Well, first things first, I don't give a damn about baseball.
As Waugh himself reminds us throughout the book, real baseball does nothing for him.I'm getting ahead of myself, though: J.
I could go on for quite some time).We can all guess what's coming, of course: he confuses real people with his own characters, assumes the identity of various baseball players and managers, is plunged into despondency by make-believe tragedies, and so on.
Coover manages to make this immensely enjoyable to read about, though--up until the epilogue, which is up there (for me) with Blood Meridian in terms of sheer head-scratching confusion.
I thought there'd be nine chapters because of all the stuff about numerology, but there were only 8...
and the author decided to create this kind of meta-russian roulette round out of the last chapter: that seemed a little sloppy: I was just starting to like some of the other imaginary people and then its like climax time and we begin introductions all over again.
So, I'd recommend this book to anybody who likes either baseball or larping (I know wierd combo, right?) or anybody who wants to write better about baseball because some of the sport language just sings!
And sixth: the game is literally timeless, with no clock running down to determine the end of a game.Leibniz, writing some two hundred plus years earlier in an attempt to solve the problem of evil, argued that this world is the "best of all possible worlds." The synthesis of this being, of course, that baseball is the best possible game in the best possible world, making it God's game, a metaphor for human life and the universe played out on a diamond field under a warm summer sun, forever.
Typically, a few times per year, I will finish a title and immediately think to myself, "That was a perfect book." Did Coover write The Great American Novel?
I think that resonance depends on personal factors.
No, but a familiarity with the inclination of fans to add narrative, to create the artifice of grand design behind the banal contact of bat and ball, is helpful to understanding Henry's project.
But I think if you can enter into the book with an open mind and take all the baseball descriptions to be more than merely baseball descriptions, the novel will reward the effort.
Disappointed with this one. I wanted to learn more about Henry but instead the focus was instead on the players he created. Ultimately frustrating.
Most of this novel reads like a Charlie Kaufman script - sad sack at dead-end job creates and immerses himself into a creative world that fractures then floods what little arks of order and sailboats of sanity buoyed and bounced the boy through the seas of anonymous adulthood.
Note: Also enjoyed the list of Other Signet Paperbacks at the back of the book, like Rowan And Martin's Laugh-In No. 1: "It's chicken jokes, party time, graffiti, etc.
twenty-four hours a day instead of one precious hour per week!" Also, Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In No. 2: Mod Mod World.
This isn't your sentimental or saintly baseball book.
It's an unwinding narrative of creator vs.
It is also a novel about obsession and loneliness, as we skip from being alongside the game's creator, Henry Waugh (think of the game as a more complicated version of Strat-O-Matic) to the fantasyland diamond itself.
At times crude, at times confusing, the ending (in all its unbridled disjointedness) makes the meta-novel far more heartfelt than one would expect, even touching on all-pervasive horrors of dementia and death, where a roll of the dice can ultimately destroy a universe.
Far out shit.
Sure, table top simulation games were around back then, but Henry Waugh takes it to an Internet level of obsessiveness.
This has been on my reading list for some time and it is tough to find--had to go the interlibrary loan route.
Granted, it's to be expected in a book about a slowly deteriorating mind, but there are consequences for the reader on the flip side of that.A lot of good lines--here's a favorite: "Besides, war was available to everybody, the space race to few: war was a kind of whorehouse for mass release of moonlust."
Reading this book felt like being trapped in an elevator with a downward spiraling hallucinating individual. You keep hoping that the visions will pass and some sensible narrative will form but instead the sporadic glimmers of sanity quickly fade back into nonsense. Viewed as a case study in obsession and imagination the book does I wonderful job, I just found the execution on that theme excruciating.
I loved it at first and now I'm kind of torn.
This book is self-indulgent and I probably should have read it more slowly.
By the end I was kind of overwhelmed, but given the utter insanity of the last chapter I think that would have happened anyway.
It's a book about baseball and a man's descent into madness, but it's also using those subjects to deliver a pretentious disquisition on theology, free will, etc., and I was more into the former.
But the conceit is riveting and the baseball writing is scintillating and the characters are total lunatics, so on balance I guess I liked it.
Coover does a good job filling the void I've been experiencing since I ran out of Pynchon novels to read last year. He writes a similarly playful yet maddeningly complex brand of post-modernism that covers pretty much everything I love in fiction. And I don't even like baseball.
Well, Lucian promised it would be weird! Emphatically not about baseball, but a non-baseball lover would struggle to get through it. I need to read more by Coover.
There are people out there who have never seen Mike Trout play one game, but based on fantasy stats would declare him the best player in baseball.
Are these people true fans, or simply posers whose obsessions will change as soon as the next trend comes along?The issue at the heart of Robert Coover's Universal Base Association is one man's obsession with stats and numbers.
But when something happens as strange and extreme as Damon Rutherford's on-field death, it throws his entire life into ruin, and the disappointment in the game bleeds into his reality.
The creation of a tabletop game and the world and characters born from it are all sufficiently described with great prose....but the description and happenings of Henry's own life are pretty flat in comparison.
But Henry is much more consumed by his creation to make to much a fuss about what he's done with his 56 years of life.
But, the theme of sex is very present and it's occurrences crop up in both unanticipated ways (baseball folklore of on-field rapes, a women who materializes into a bar and subsequently gang-raped) and predictable ways (sex scenes playing out like a baseball game...bases, home-runs, pitches and swings, etc.).
Yunel Escobar, ssYes, I know that one doesn't have to set an actual line-up in Fantasy Baseball, nor pick specific outfield slots in our league; nevertheless, I did find myself at odd moments of the day, setting my line-ups, and finding myself uncomfortable if at least one of my outfielders wasn't actually a centerfielder.
And yes, I know that my ill-judged decision to sit Napoli on the penultimate day of the season (when he hit two homers) probably cost me the championship of the Carl Hubble Space Telescope League.My point?
Not what I wanted.Some I spoke about this book with before reading it expressed interest but doubts about how much sport talk there is.
In my opinion, the forest got lots for the trees many times.
I say this, but at the same time it is a book about the sport of baseball...no, the institution.
For me...not so much.Ya, I don't know that I would say this book was that far ahead of its time (as some reviewers did).
I doubt I will be recommending it any time soon, but I don't think it was bad either.
