https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40389026-summer-island
Nora Bridge finds her orderly world turned upside down overnight.
When that was inevitably leaked, Nora returns to Summer Island where she has to come to terms with the world she walked away from a decade before.
It tackled some strong themes, particularly the mother-daughter dynamics and the imprint those relationships leave from one generation to the next.
I also liked the contrast between the Bridge family and the wealthy Sloans who vacationed on the island each summer and formed a connection.
In summary, it was an interesting story with thought provoking themes, even though I could have scripted the ending myself.
She eagerly cashes in the check and begins to write...Nora falls prey to a blackmailer who exposes her to her loyal readers and becomes a huge scandal- can she get through this?The stage is set for another great book by Kristin Hannah and I couldn't turn the pages fast enough.
Great life lessons to take away from the story- family secrets that are exposed and of course- a good romance to root for.
For me, while this was readable, it also didn't dip too far below the surface and I had issues with the actual scandal that was presented.
I related so strongly to the main character Ruby, I felt like I was reading about myself at times and I think that's why I reacted so strongly to her story.
In fact, reading Ruby's story opened my eyes to my own destructive behaviour that mirrors hers and it really forced me to think about difficult issues that I normally avoid.
I still can't stop thinking about this book and I'm so thankful it ended up in my hands, I really needed to read this at this time in my life.
Hannah always creates moving books and I love that her novels are set in the Northwest. Entertaining and satisfying, Summer Island is a compelling story about mothers and daughters. This novel like her others has an element of sadness and dissension but makes you enjoy the ending and root for the characters. I agree that parts are predictable, but it didn't lessen the enjoyment. I really like this author (I've read 11 of her books) and she does family drama very well.
Okay, I am at work, so I'll have to make this review short and to the point.This is the third Kristin Hannah book I have read, and while the first one was very touching ( True Colors ), the last two including this one, have been so-so.I begin to think these books are like Lifetime movies.
Sometimes they can be touching, and other times I can literally feel braincells slowing down and dying off.This book was no different.
Of course she feels betrayed by her mother, and therefore, she will betray her back.
I was so sick and tired of Ruby that I could not even feel bad for her.
Summer Island is a very touching story about the power of love through healing and forgiveness.
It reminds us that each story has three sides and how sometimes we need to look past our own hurt and anger to renew an old relationship.Summer's Island is sold on it being a book about Mother/Daughter relationships but it is so much more.
Summer's Island is both sad and uplifting having you laugh and cry throughout the whole story and reaching for the phone to call someone you lost contact with when it is over.
This book was about the hurt that difficult decisions can make in a marriage and family and how secrets only compound the damage. This book followed Ruby, the daughter of Nora, a famous radio personality who left her family 11 years earlier. Nora leaving her family really damaged her kids and this book explores the problems that caused for Ruby in her interpersonal relations with everyone she met afterwards. Ruby and Nora were forced back together after Nora was in an accident and they ended up reconciling.
"Summer Island' deals with a young woman Ruby who is estranged from her famous mother (Nora) and barely talks to her older sister and father who is long remarried with a new child.
I think sometimes you see what you want, and this book takes a mirror up to those who believe that their childhoods were perfect and turns it on their head when it's revealed not so much.I felt for Nora too though I wish we had gotten more involved with her storyline.
Some books should come with warning labels so you will know the story between the covers may cause you to feel a variety of emotions.
From that point on unfolds a story of a mother and a daughter trying to find a way to come to terms with each other and a past that caused so much pain.
A family coming to terms with a painful past, secrets, forgiveness, rebuilding of relationship between a mother and her daughters, loss of a close family friend and the renewal of a childhood romance.I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys this genre.
A pontuação justa seria 4,5*.Comecei esta leitura com muita expectativa. Às vezes funciona ao contrário mas, desta vez, não me desiludiu. Uma escrita simples, uma história que pode acontecer em qualquer família, e eu senti-me "esmagada" de emoção no final.Ruby é uma mulher tão ferida... Nora uma mulher tão forte... Adorei Eric, senti um carinho por ele como se fosse da minha família. Aconselho.. sem reservas!!
I can't figure out why this author is so popular. I thought the story line was cheesy and predictable, and the prose uninspired. Wow, I seldom write negative reviews , so you KNOW this book disappointed me!
You look at their family, their story, and see the good and the bad of your own.
You remember, if only for the moments you are reading, how precious family is and how quickly time passes, and you drift apart.
It doesn't matter the intentions or the reasons, this book makes you want to call your loved ones just to take advantage of the moments you do have.
Family is about fighting, forgiving, accepting, and loving; not only one another but yourself.
I loved that Nora, despite her flaws, could see through the bad and help those in the wrong direction.
4.5.Mais um livro intenso, arrebatador e emocionante. Sempre com temas actuais, que nos levam a ler o livro de uma assentada.Sendo as primeiras paginas sempre mais "leves" para entrarmos na história, depressa damos conosco numa montanha russa de emoções.Se depois do primeiro livro que li dela, fiquei fã, cada leitura nova dá-me vontade de ler mais e mais.
This book was a huge let down for me. The characters were miserable people and I couldn't feel an ounce of love for them and believe me I tried! The story was predictable, full of cliches and cheesy like a badly written soap opera. The author threw in a romance in there towards the end that she hardly bothered to develop well. This was one of Kristin Hannah's earlier books, thus it explains the vast chasm between this one and the Great Alone, a 5 star book I read and loved last year.
Nora Bridge had what appeared to be the American dream – a devoted husband, two loving daughters, and a quaint beachhouse on Summer Island.
After Nora, ironically a nationally beloved radio advice show host of “Family First,” becomes the center of a scandal, Ruby decides to make a quick buck by writing a tell-all roast about her absentee mother for a sleazy tabloid.
Alone and helpless, she’s left to rely on the one person who despises her the most: Ruby.Guilted into taking care of her down-trodden mother at her childhood home in Summer Island, Ruby decides to maximize her quality time with mother dearest by writing her tell-all.
This is the 10th Kristin Hannah I have read this year.
Summer Island is about advice expert Nora Bridges, the two daughters she abandoned years ago (Ruby & Caroline), and some other wonderful characters (Eric the homesexual cancer patient and his brother, Dean).I was completely sucked in from Page 1.
When the tabloid scandal gets seriously revved up, Nora decides to hide away for a while at her old lake house.
Her estranged daughter Ruby gets talked into caring for her injured mother for a week.
(6 months later I returned to this review and had actually entirely forgotten the story, so i reduced the rating to a 4)I read a version of this book which was released through epub, and thus there were some formatting and grammatical errors which were somewhat distracting, but the story still sucked me in.
instead, the daughter learns to love and live again.while the dialogue does feel a little forced at times, and while the transition from hatred to love does seem to happen on a short time-line, this book teaches us the lesson that if we assume we have all the answers, we never really do.kudos to Kristin Hannah for such wonderful character development, and the reminder that sometimes fancy facades are placed over cracking foundations.
I enjoyed listening to this story, which is told from the alternating points of view of successful radio host Nora, a woman who preaches to the nation about the importance of family, among other things, and (ironically enough) her estranged daughter, the angry aspiring comedian, Ruby.When pornographic pictures from Nora’s past emerge, proving that she had an affair while married, her image of being a family values icon are shattered, and her career is in tatters.Ruby’s career has never gotten started, but the downfall of her mother leads to opportunities for her.
More important, this book is about the complex bonds of family, specifically mother/daughter relationships.For more of my reviews, please see: http://theresaalan.net/blog/
When pornographic pictures of her are released to the press, her carefully constructed world comes tumbling down around her and she is faced with the skeletons in her closet that have left her estranged from the two daughters she has loved from a distance for the past 11 years.The Journey back is a tumultuous one when Nora finds herself injured in a car accident and her daughter Ruby, who has nurtured her hatred since the day her mother left them, comes to care for her at the family home on Summer Island.
This was a very good book with much more to the story than I have let on here.
Feelings: pain, sadness, joyfulness I was hooked after the first 50 pages, even the night couldn't stop me.
I think my heart has not opened yet entirely, thus I was shocked as I was reading about Bridge family, their story, their feelings, their life were very heart-breaking to me, I couldn't escape from them, I had to read them in order to help to heal mine.In my family also there is a "scandalous" secret, some parts of it have already been unfolded, but painful emotions are still deeply buried inside our heart.
Beach read
My 3 star rating is being generous on my part.This book was very predictable and cheesy beyond imagination.The character Ruby totally unbelievable.
While mental illness varies from individual to individual, how could the mother not tell her daughters her state of health?
What a self-centered woman!This book got the rating it did because when I got done reading it, I was so frustrated that I took my valuable time to read this predictable story with unlikeable characters.
Mighty love mixed with gripping, emotional storytelling explains this story.
Kristin Hannah did an excellent job bringing alive the depth of the characters loves each other.
Most love stories fall short when it comes to readers connection to the main couple.
The characters were so toxifying to read it became addicting.
The story showcases love through forgiveness and I believe that's an important factor to embark as a romance reader.You probably think I'm talking about a love between lovers but on the contrary, I'm talking about a mother and daughter bond.
Emotions vary while reading this book.
Great conflictI loved this book because the conflict was so real and made total sense. A mother walks out on her family and her daughter hates her. Fast forward many years and the daughter suddenly has to help her mother but is offered a lot of money to do an expose on her mother. It was fascinating to watch the main character develop.
I absolutely love Kristin Hannah books! This particular book I picked up at the library and had very low expectations for. I was very surprised at how much I really enjoyed it. A story about relationships and forgiveness. It will make you laugh and cry. I highly recommend.
I listened to this book in the car - sometimes depressing, sometimes thought-provoking, Im glad I listened to it. But I think I'm ready for a break from this author.
I adore all of Kristen Hannah’s other novels (at least, the ones that I’ve read), so I picked Summer Island up expecting to be sucked into a story that would make me laugh, cry, and re-examine my life.
In one of her other books, Night Road, it’s taken for granted that Lexi and Zach love each other.
Similarly, it’s taken for granted here that Ruby and Dean love each other.
I would recommend this book for anyone who enjoys characters making impossible choices or wants a novel with a wide variety of characters.
Enjoyed reading the story of family and particularly mom and daughter(s) relationship.
This was good for a summer vacation read...but was definitely predictable. Not much for character development.
3.5
