https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117079.Young_Pioneers
Basically the same story as YOUNG PIONEERS, except the YOUNG PIONEERS are David and Molly and the HURRICANE is LET ROAR around...Caroline and Charles? Why, wherever did those names come from? :) Well, if you have the chance to read them both, go on ahead, and I hope you enjoy them!
Recommended, but not required, for an online Laura Ingalls Wilder class I am currently taking. Interesting contrast with Wilder's writing, as Rose took a lot of her mom's memories and put it together into a fiction before hers were published. It was interesting to run across familiar episodes, but it was also instructive at how much better Laura's voice and characterizations were.
The characters names are Charles and Caroline, and with their characterizations, seemed that it could have been about the author's grandparents, Pa and Ma in "Little House," except that the plot of the story didn't seem to match up with the early books of that series.Other than wondering if any of it was based on fact, because I like to know, I enjoyed the story about their lives in a dugout, surviving a winter alone on the prairies, and the fierce pride and love for each other that kept them going.Apparently newer editions are published under a different title with new character names.
David and Molly in the story were modeled after Rose's grandparents, Charles and Caroline Ingalls.
While the "Little House" books are geared towards a younger set, "Young Pioneers" makes a nice addition to your bookshelves for your older children.
It's a bit more stark and not as descriptive.If you've read the "Little House" books by Laura Ingalls Wilder, you will recognize that many of the settings and events in "Young Pioneers" are from Laura's book, "On the Banks of Plum Creek".
Fans of little house would like this short novel.
Rose Wilder Lane, Laura Ingalls' daughter, writes a compelling story about a young couple carving out a place to survive in the wild west.
Young Pioneers, originally titled Let the Hurricane Roar, depicts what reviewers call "the grown up version of Laura Ingalls' tale." The largest difference between Rose's book and her mother's series is that we see settlement through adult eyes rather than a child's.
Quickly the reader understands these gifts are both luxurious for such a young family to own, and necessary to survive the trip out west.
A good book for those who loved the Little House series by Rose's mom Laura Ingalls Wilder. I'm a bit annoyed by the reviewers who didn't take the time to figure out that Rose's book pre-dates Laura's and any quick Google search will show that the Little House books only came about at Rose's urging and assistance. It is a quick, sweet story and does not hinge on knowing anything about Little House. The ending is a bit abrupt and the reader hopes there will be more. Good for all ages.
One was "Let the Hurricane Roar" and the other was "Young Pioneers." You can imagine my surprise when I figured out these were the same book.
It took me a little while to figure out, but my husband had bought a DVD of eight adventure movies that contained the movie adaptation of this book called "Young Pioneers." We watched it a couple years ago before I knew anything about "Let the Hurricane Roar," which is why I couldn't shake the feeling of deja vu regarding this book.
Molly in particular is a brave young woman who not only gives birth on the prairie with only her husband in attendance, but also manages to live alone and keep the homestead when David has to get work out east after a grasshopper plague.
Personally I think this is because Laura Ingalls Wilder’s stories were written from the heart and of her own experiences, while Rose Wilder Lane’s books that I’ve read are mining the same material without the personal touch.
The name of this novel was also changed from the original “Let the Hurricane Roar” to Young Pioneers probably to market to the Laura Ingalls Wilder crowd.
I am taking a class on Laura Ingalls Wilder, where part of our discussion is how much influence did Rose have on Laura's Little House books.
I don't see how anyone can even compare their writing styles.
I understand Rose used Laura's Pioneer Girl biography as source material for this story, which Laura also used for portions of her Little House novels.
Lane's writing style is so stark, stripped of emotion, almost journalistic, in a way.
Wilder's writing style is the complete opposite: warm, vibrant, emotional, full of an abundance of details.
It took a lot of effort for me to continue Young Pioneers.
Couldn't put it down. I found the writing sharp and the story engrossing. Thinking of doing a Pioneer theme for my summer book group. This would be a good choice for one of the books.Need 2 more.
I thought this book was okay. I know that I would not be able to be by myself with my child/children all alone for a whole season, especially back in those days. What strong and courageous women they were to have to endure all that they had to go through.
You have to feel sorry for Rose Wilder Lane: at one point, SHE was the famous author in the family. In her lifetime, she wrote over 20 books, and countless magazine and newspaper articles. She wrote biographies of Henry Ford, Herbert Hoover, and Charlie Chaplin. She is considered one of the founders of the Libertarian movement.Now? She’s mainly relegated to being “the daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder.” She’s a footnote in the sad chapter of “The First Four Years.”My daughter and I have been reading a series of books...Read my full review here: http://cynthiahillbooks.com/2013/10/1...
Why was Rose Wilder Lane largely forgotten as a writer while her mother reigns eternal in the annals of American literature?
While she had an eye for story exposition and structure, she lacked her mother's lyrical ability and poetic way of describing the world around her.
Rose writes her family's history in a short little novel that sold well at the time it was published but has since faded into obscurity.
Laura wrote the same story, but the way in which she told it seared its memory into the souls of the American experience.
Rose's attempt falls flat at the wayside.
Rose Wilder Lane is Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter and this novel was written in 1933.A quick read, only 152 pages, this is impossible to put down. It details what was involved in traveling west, living in a dugout, attempting to communicate with neighbors who spoke only Swedish, giving birth with only the help of a neighbor, and the heartbreak of losing crops to devastating swarms of grasshoppers. The novel was based on the history of Rose W. Lane's grandparents' homesteading adventures.
I planned to read this over a couple days, but I couldn't put it down and finished it in one evening. I was surprised at how many things I could relate to, impressed by Molly's strength, and grateful for the luxuries of modern day life, like being able to communicate quickly with people who are far away. I'm looking forward to discussing this with book group.
This short book gives a glimpse of what life was really like settling the vast American prairie. Instead of the romance we see harsh circumstances, but the reader is also treated to the strength and courage of the women and mothers who helped settle our country. It reminds me of stories told by my grandmothers when I was a little girl.
Obviously she would write based on stories her mother, Laura Ingalls Wilder, had told her. This was a complete copy cat of the first few Little House on the Prairie books! I loved those books so this one, not so much...
It sort of was like Little House on the Prairie. So much so that I can see why ppl say she wrote the Little House Books using her mother's name.
A bit confusing - unsure how much is fiction vs nonfiction.
It's like someone took "On the Banks of Plum Creek," "By the Shores of Silver Lake" and "The Long Winter," combined them and rewrote them from Caroline Ingalls' point of view -- in fact, the main characters were initially named Charles and Caroline, until Laura Ingalls Wilder (Rose's mother), who was in the middle of the "Little House" series, objected.
But whether named Charles and Caroline or David and Molly, they're recognizable to anyone who has read "Little House," though Charles/David is more emotional and Caroline/Molly is less so than their better-known counterparts.
The pace is fast and if readers do not understand some of the concepts like sod houses/shanty, they will need to find the explanation somewhere else because it is not described in the book.
Air and sun and snow were the whole visible world -- a world neither alive nor dead, and terrible because it was alien to life and death, and ignorant of them" (pp 146-147)A quick read of westward expansion and the hard life on the prairie and a couple of young kids (18 & 16) that are in love and starting out life on their own on a little homestead on the Minnesota prairie.
Their happiness with a newborn son and a promising wheat crop is tempered by a grasshopper plague and David is forced to look for work elsewhere.
This was an enjoyable and fast read, and as a mother of teens, it is hard for me to believe that in previous generations teens were capable adults that knew skills and lived on their own at such a young age.
But I also recognized their naivete (such as what Molly expected in regards to the birth when she was counseled by older women not to move yet) that many young adults have when they don't have experience yet but believe they know everything.
In the house was a painting that I believe was on the cover of an issue of Saturday Evening Post, during the time Let the Hurricane Roar (later renamed Young Pioneers) was published in the magazine.
Of course Laura had not published these works yet.
At the time Let the Hurricane Roar/Young Pioneers was first published, Laura had only published the first two works in her series.The main characters, Molly and David, are basically a younger, more naive version of Charles and Caroline.
It is fast-paced and exciting, and I found myself rooting for this young couple.
Charles and Caroline are young, newly married, and looking to start their lives on a homestead by Plum Creek.
Life is starting out well for the young couple: they have a beautiful baby boy and the wheat crop looks like it will bring a good yield.
In many of Laura Ingalls Wilder's fan mail, she had to set the record straight that the events of this book were fictional and it was unfortunate that Lane chose to name these characters after her parents.
This novel is stark and bleak, very different from the Little House books.
Having read her mother's "Little House" books and visited the various Laura Ingalls Wilder historic sites (most recently in Mansfield, Missouri), I wanted to read something by her famous-in-her-own-right daughter.
I felt this novel could have been written by Rose Wilder Lane's mother as a number of the incidents in the story are much like events which happened in Laura's life.
Rose Wilder Lane's characters did more overtly express frustration and other strong emotions when the pioneers were confronted with challenges than Laura did in her works.
It is a short novel, more of a long short story in reality, and a quick read.
I learned about Rose's written works earlier this year when I visited the Wilder home and museum in Missouri. I marked this one to read and have just now gotten around to reading it. Rose writes very well and tells the story of Charles and Caroline, a young couple who go West to start a new life. Many of the events that happen are similar to Laura's life on the frontier. The characters display bravery, love, and hope during hardships. This was an edifying read and I recommend to fans of the Little House books.
This book is by Rose Wilder Lane, who was the daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder and her husband, Almanzo. This book was first published under the title, "Let the Hurricane Roar." This was a quick read but a really good one. Rose was a good writer in her own right and quite an interesting character outside of her mother's shadow. This is the story of Molly and David, newlyweds starting their own claim on the prairie.
I have always been drawn to stories about the brave pioneers who left the comforts of home to face the unknown. I especially love the stories of women and the challenges they faced. How did these women survive? They were constantly fighting the elements, searching for water, and food. They survived with so little yet prospered. With hard, backbreaking work, and the grace of God, their stories enthrall me.
I read this book many years ago and really enjoyed it. When reading Prairie Fire (biography of Laura Ingalls Wilder) this book was mentioned along with Young Pioneers. Very good read about a young couple going west and homesteading. I was sad to realize that the book Young Pioneers was first published as Let the Hurricane Roar with the character names changed, but the same story.
